To get away from the barn boss, de Spain took refuge in riding. The season was drawing on toward
winter, and rain clouds drifting at intervals down from the mountains made the saddle a less
dependable escape from the monotony of Calabasas. Several days passed with no sight of Nan
and no word from her. De Spain, as the hours and days went by, scanned the horizon with increasing
solicitude. When he woke on the sixth morning, he was resolved to send a scout into the Gap
to learn what he could of the situation. The long silence, de Spain knew, portended nothing
good. And the vexing feature of his predicament was that he had at hand no trustworthy spy
to despatch for information; to secure one would be a matter of delay. He was schooled, however,
to making use of such material as he had at hand, and when he had made up his mind, he sent
to the stable for Bull Page.

The shambling barn man, summoned gruffly by McAlpin, hesitated as he appeared at the office
door and seemed to regard the situation with suspicion. He looked at de Spain tentatively,
as if ready either for the discharge with which he was daily threatened or for a renewal of
his earlier, friendly relations with the man who had been queer enough to make a place for
him. De Spain set Bull down before him in the stuffy little office.

"Bull," he began with apparent frankness, "I want to know how you like your job."

Wiping his mouth guardedly with his hand to play for time and as an introduction to a carefully
worded reply, Bull parried. "Mr. de Spain, I want to ask you just one fair question."

"Go ahead, Bull."

Bull plunged promptly into the suspicion uppermost in his mind. "Has that slat-eyed, flat-headed,
sun-sapped sneak of a Scotchman been complaining of my work? That, Mr. de Spain," emphasized
Bull, leaning forward, "is what I want to know first--is it a fair question?"

"Bull," returned de Spain with corresponding and ceremonial emphasis, "it is a fair question
between man and man. I admit it; it is a fair question. And I answer, no, Bull. McAlpin has
had nothing on the face of the desert to do with my sending for you. And I add this because
I know you want to hear it: he says he couldn't complain of your work, because you never do any."

"That man," persisted Bull, reinforced by the hearty tone and not clearly catching the drift
of the very last words, "drinks more liquor than I do."

"He must be some tank, Bull."

"And I don't hide it, Mr. de Spain."

"You'd have to crawl under Music Mountain to do that. What I want to know is, do you like your
job?"

On this point it was impossible to get an expression from Bull. He felt convinced that de Spain
was pressing for an answer only as a preliminary to his discharge. "No matter," interposed
the latter, cutting Bull's ramblings short, "drop it, Bull. I want you to do something for
me, and I'll pay for it."

Bull, with a palsied smile and a deep, quavering note of gratitude, put up his shaky hand.
"Say what. That's all. I've been paid."

"You know you're a sot, Bull."

Bull nodded. "I know it."

"A disgrace to the Maker whose image you were made in."

Bull started, but seemed, on reflection, to consider this a point on which he need not commit
himself.

"Still, I believe there's a man in you yet. Something, at any rate, you couldn't completely
kill with whiskey, Bull--what?"

Bull lifted his weak and watery eyes. His whiskey-seamed face brightened into the ghost of
a smile. "What I'm going to ask you to do," continued de Spain, "is a man's job. You can get
into the Gap without trouble. You are the only man I can put my hand on just now, that can.
I want you to ride over this morning and hang out around Duke Morgan's place till you can get
a chance to see Miss Nan----"

At the mention of her name, Bull shook his head a moment in affirmative approval. "She's a
queen!" he exclaimed with admiring but pungent expletives. "A queen!"

"I think so, Bull. But she is in troublesome circumstances. You know Nan and I----"

Bull winked in many ways.

"And her Uncle Duke is making us trouble, Bull. I want you to find her, speak with her, and
bring word to me as to what the situation is. That doesn't mean you're to get drunk over there--in
fact, I don't think anybody over there would give you a drink----"

"Don't believe they would."

"And you are to ride back here with what you can find out just as quick, after you get into
the clear, as a horse will bring you."

Bull passed his hand over his mouth with a show of resolution. It indicated that he was pulling
himself together. Within half an hour he was on his way to the Gap.

For de Spain hours never dragged as did the hours between his starting and the setting of the
sun that night without his return. And the sun set behind Music Mountain in a drift of heavy
clouds that brought rain. All evening it fell steadily. At eleven o'clock de Spain had given
up hope of seeing his emissary before morning and was sitting alone before the stove in the
office when he heard the sound of hoofs. In another moment Bull Page stood at the door.

He was a sorry sight. Soaked to the skin by the steady downpour; rain dripping intermittently
from his frayed hat, his ragged beard, and tattered coat; shaking with the cold as if gripped
by an ague, Bull, picking his staggering steps to the fire, and sinking in a heap into a chair,
symbolized the uttermost tribute of manhood to the ravages of whiskey. He was not drunk. He
had not even been drinking; but his vitality was gone. He tried to speak. It was impossible.
His tongue would not frame words, nor his throat utter them. He could only look helplessly
at de Spain as de Spain hastily made him stand up on his shaking knees, threw a big blanket
around him, sat him down, kicked open the stove drafts, and called to McAlpin for more whiskey
to steady the wreck of it crouching over the fire.

McAlpin after considerable and reluctant search produced a bottle, and unwilling, for more
reasons than one, to trust it to Bull's uncertain possession, brought a dipper. Bull held the
dipper while de Spain poured. McAlpin, behind the stove, hopped first on one foot and then
on the other as de Spain recklessly continued to pour. When the liquor half filled the cup,
McAlpin put out unmistakable distress signals, but Bull, watching the brown stream, his eyes
galvanized at the sight, held fast to the handle and made no sign to stop. "Bull!" thundered
the barn boss with an emphatic word. "That is Elpaso's bottle. What are you dreaming of, man?
Mr. de Spain, you'll kill him. Don't ye see he can't tell ye to stop?"

Bull, with the last flickering spark of vitality still left within him, looked steadily up
and winked at de Spain. McAlpin, outraged, stamped out of the room. Steadying the dipper in
both hands, Bull with an effort passed one hand at the final moment preliminarily over his
mouth, and, raising the bowl, emptied it. The poison electrified him into utterance. "I seen
her," he declared, holding his chin well down and in, and speaking in a pardonably proud throat.

"Good, Bull!"

"They've got things tied up for fair over there." He spoke slowly and brokenly. "I never got
inside the house till after supper. Toward night I helped Pardaloe put up the stock. He let
me into the kitchen after my coaxing for a cup of coffee--he's an ornery, cold-blooded guy,
that Pardaloe. Old Duke and Sassoon think the sun rises and sets on the top of his head--funny,
ain't it?"

De Spain made no comment. "Whilst I was drinking my coffee----"

"Who gave it to you?"

"Old Bunny, the Mex. Pardaloe goes out to the bunk-house; I sits down to my supper, alone,
with Bunny at the stove. All of a sudden who comes a-trippin' in from the front of the house
but Nan. I jumped up as strong as I could, but I was too cold and stiff to jump up real strong.
She seen me, but didn't pay no attention. I dropped my spoon on the floor. It didn't do no
good, neither, so I pushed a hot plate of ham gravy off the table. It hit the dog 'n' he jumped
like kingdom come. Old Bunny sails into me, Nan a-watchin', and while Mex was pickin' up and
cleanin' up, I sneaks over to the stove and winks at Nan. Say, you oughter seen her look mad
at me. She was hot, but I kept a-winkin' and I says to her kind of husky-like: 'Got any letters
for Calabasas to-night?' Say, she looked at me as if she'd bore holes into me, but I stood
right up and glared back at the little girl. 'Come from there this mornin',' says I, low, 'going
back to-night. Some one waiting there for news.'

"By jing! Just as I got the words out o' my mouth who comes a-stalking in but Gale Morgan.
The minute he seen me, he lit on me to beat the band--called me everything he could lay his
tongue to. I let on I was drunk, but that didn't help. He ordered me off the premises. 'N'
the worst of it was, Nan chimed right in and began to scold Bunny for lettin' me in--and leaves
the room, quick-like. Bunny put it on Pardaloe, and she and Gale had it, and b'jing, Gale put
me out--said he'd pepper me. But wait till I tell y' how she fooled him. It was rainin' like
hell, 'n' it looked as if I was booked for a ride through it and hadn't half drunk my second
cup of coffee at that. I starts for the barn, when some one in the dark on the porch grabs
my arm, spins me around like a top, throws a flasher up into my face, and there was Nan. 'Bull,'
she says, 'I'm sorry. I don't want to see you ride out in this with nothing to eat; come this
way quick.'

"She took me down cellar from the outside, under the kitchen. When Gale goes out again she
flings up the trap-door, speaks to Mex, pulls all the kitchen shades down, locks the doors,
and I sets down on the trap-door steps 'n' eats a pipin' hot supper; say! Well, I reckon I
drank a couple o' quarts of coffee. 'Bull,' she says, 'I never done you no harm, did I?' 'Never,'
says I, 'and I never done you none, neither, did I? And what's more, I never will do you none.'
Then I up and told her. 'Tell him,' says she, 'I can't get hold of a horse, nor a pen, nor
a piece of paper--I can't leave the house but what I am watched every minute. They keep track
of me day and night. Tell him,' she says, 'I can protect myself; they think they'll break me--make
me do what they want me to--marry--but they can't break me, and I'll never do it--tell him that.'

"'But,' says I, 'that ain't the whole case, Miss Nan. What he'll ask me, when he's borin' through
me with his eyes like the way you're borin' me through with yours, is: When will you see him--when
will he see you?'

"She looked worrit for a minit. Then she looks around, grabs up the cover of an empty 'bacco
box and a fork and begins a-writing inside." Bull, with as much of a smile as he could call
into life from his broken nerves, opened up his blanket, drew carefully from an inside coat
pocket an oilskin package, unwrapped from it the flat, square top of a tin tobacco box on which
Nan had scratched a message, and handed it triumphantly to de Spain.

He read her words eagerly:

"Wait; don't have trouble. I can stand anything better than bloodshed, Henry. Be patient."

While de Spain, standing close to the lantern, deciphered the brief note, Bull, wrapping his
blanket about him with the air of one whose responsibility is well ended, held out his hands
toward the blazing stove. De Spain went over the words one by one, and the letters again and
again. It was, after all their months of ardent meetings, the first written message he had
ever had from Nan. He flamed angrily at the news that she was prisoner in her own home. But
there was much to weigh in her etched words, much to think about concerning her feelings--not
alone concerning his own.

He dropped into his chair and, oblivious for a moment of his companion's presence, stared into
the fire. When he started from his revery Bull was asleep. De Spain picked him up, carried
him in his blanket over to a cot, cut the wet rags off him, and, rolling him in a second blanket,
walked out into the barn and ordered up a team and light wagon for Sleepy Cat. The rain fell
all night.

CHAPTER XXIV

AN OMINOUS MESSAGE

Few men bear suspense well; de Spain took his turn at it very hard. For the first time in his
life he found himself braved by men of a type whose defiance he despised--whose lawlessness
he ordinarily warred on without compunction--but himself without the freedom that had always
been his to act. Every impulse to take the bit in his teeth was met with the same insurmountable
obstacle--Nan's feelings--and the unpleasant possibility that might involve him in bloodshed
with her kinspeople.

"Patience." He repeated the word to himself a thousand times to deaden his suspense and apprehension.
Business affairs took much of his time, but Nan's situation took most of his thought. For the
first time he told John Lefever the story of Nan's finding him on Music Mountain, of her aid
in his escape, and the sequel of their friendship. Lefever gave it to Bob Scott in Jeffries's
office.

"What did I tell you, John?" demanded Bob mildly.

"No matter what you told me," retorted Lefever. "The question is: What's he to do to get Nan
away from there without shooting up the Morgans?"

De Spain had gone that morning to Medicine Bend. He got back late and, after a supper at the
Mountain House, went directly to his room.

The telephone-bell was ringing when he unlocked and threw open his door. Entering the room,
he turned on a light, closed the door behind him, and sat down to answer the call.

"Is this Henry de Spain?" came a voice, slowly pronouncing the words over the wire.

"Yes."

"I have a message for you."

"What is it?"

"From Music Mountain."

"Go ahead."

"The message is like this: 'Take me away from here as soon as you can.'"

"Whom is that message from?"

"I can't call any names."

"Who are you?"

"I can't tell you that."

"What do you mean?"

"Just what I say. Good-by."

"Hold on. Where are you talking from?"

"About a block from your office."

"Do you think it a fair way to treat a man to----"

"I have to be fair to myself."

"Give me the message again."

"'Take me away from here as soon as you can.'"

"Where does it come from?"

"Music Mountain."

"If you're treating me fair--and I believe you mean to--come over to my room a minute."

"No."

"Let me come to where you are?"

"No."

"Let me wait for you--anywhere?"

"No."

"Do you know me?"

"By sight."

"How did you know I was in town to-night?"

"I saw you get off the train."

"You were looking for me, then?"

"To deliver my message."

"Do you think that message means what it says?"

"I know it does."

"Do you know what it means for me to undertake?"

"I have a pretty stiff idea."

"Did you get it direct from the party who sent it?"

"I can't talk all night. Take it or leave it just where it is."

De Spain heard him close. He closed his own instrument and began feverishly signalling central.
"This is 101. Henry de Spain talking," he said briskly. "You just called me. Ten dollars for
you, operator, if you can locate that call, quick!"

There was a moment of delay at the central office, then the answer: "It came from 234--Tenison's
saloon."

"Give me your name, operator. Good. Now give me 22 as quick as the Lord will let you, and ring
the neck off the bell."

Lefever answered the call on number 22. The talk was quick and sharp. Messengers were instantly
pressed into service from the despatcher's office. Telephone wires hummed, and every man available
on the special agent's force was brought into action. Livery-stables were covered, the public
resorts were put under observation, horsemen clattered up and down the street. Within an incredibly
short time the town was rounded up, every outgoing trail watched, and search was under way
for any one from Morgan's Gap, and especially for the sender of the telephone message.

De Spain, after instructing Lefever, hastened to Tenison's. His rapid questioning of the few
habitués of the place and the bartender elicited only the information that a man had used the
telephone booth within a few minutes. Nobody knew him or, if they did know him, refused to
describe him in any but vague terms. He had come in by the front door and slipped out probably
by the rear door--at all events, unnoticed by those questioned. By a series of eliminating
inquiries, de Spain made out only that the man was not a Morgan. Outside, Bob Scott in the
saddle waited with a led horse. The two men rode straight and hard for the river bridge. They
roused an old hunter who lived in a near-by hut, on the town side, and asked whether any horseman
had crossed the bridge. The hunter admitted gruffly that he had heard a horse's hoof recently
on the bridge. Within how long? The hunter, after taking a full precious minute to decide,
said thirty minutes; moreover, he insisted that the horseman he had heard had ridden into town,
and not out.

Sceptical of the correctness of the information, Scott and de Spain clattered out on the Sinks.
Their horseflesh was good and they felt they could overtake any man not suspecting pursuit.
The sky was overcast, and speed was their only resource. After two miles of riding, the pursuers
reined up on a ridge, and Scott, springing from the saddle, listened for sounds. He rose from
the ground, declaring he could hear the strides of a running horse. Again the two dashed ahead.

The chase was bootless. Whoever rode before them easily eluded pursuit. The next time the scout
dropped from his saddle to listen, not the faintest sound rewarded his attention. De Spain
was impatient. "He could easily slip us," Scott explained, "by leaving the trail for a minute
while we rode past--if he knows his business--and I guess he does."

"If the old man was right, that man could have ridden in town and out, too, within half to
three-quarters of an hour," said de Spain. "But how could he have got out without being heard?"

"Maybe," suggested Scott, "he forded the river."

"Could he do it?"

"It's a man's job," returned Scott, reflecting, "but it could be done."

"If a man thought it necessary."

"If he knew you by sight," responded Scott unmoved, "he might have thought it necessary."

Undeterred by his failure to overtake the fugitive, de Spain rode rapidly back to town to look
for other clews. Nothing further was found to throw light on the message or messenger. No one
had been found anywhere in town from Morgan's Gap; whoever had taken a chance in delivering
the message had escaped undetected.

Even after the search had been abandoned the significance of the incident remained to be weighed.
De Spain was much upset. A conference with Scott, whose judgment in any affair was marked by
good sense, and with Lefever, who, like a woman, reached by intuition a conclusion at which
Scott or de Spain arrived by process of thought, only revealed the fact that all three, as
Lefever confessed, were nonplussed.

"It's one of two things," declared Lefever, whose eyes were never dulled by late hours. "Either
they've sent this to lure you into the Gap and 'get' you, or else--and that's a great big 'or
else'--she needs you. Henry, did that message--I mean the way it was worded--sound like Nan
Morgan?"

De Spain could hardly answer. "It did, and it didn't," he said finally. "But--" his companions
saw during the pause by which his lips expressed the resolve he had finally reached that he
was not likely to be turned from it--"I am going to act just as if the word came from Nan and
she does need me."

More than one scheme for getting quickly into touch with Nan was proposed and rejected within
the next ten minutes. And when Lefever, after conferring with Scott, put up to de Spain a proposal
that the three should ride into the Gap together and demand Nan at the hands of Duke Morgan,
de Spain had reached another conclusion.

"I know you are willing to take more than your share, John, of any game I play. In the first
place it isn't right to take you and Bob in where I am going on my own personal affair. And
I know Nan wouldn't enjoy the prospect of an all-around fight on her account. Fighting is a
horror to that girl. I've got her feelings to think about as well as my own. I've decided what
to do, John. I'm going in alone."

"You're going in alone!"

"To-night. Now, I'll tell you what I'd like you to do if you want to: ride with me and wait
till morning, outside El Capitan. If you don't hear from me by ten o'clock, ride back to Calabasas
and notify Jeffries to look for a new manager."

"On the contrary, if we don't hear from you by ten o'clock, Henry, we will blaze our way in
and drag out your body." Lefever put up his hand to cut off any rejoinder. "Don't discuss it.
What happens after ten o'clock to-morrow morning, if we don't hear from you before that, can't
possibly be of any interest to you or make any difference." He paused, but de Spain saw that
he was not done. When he resumed, he spoke in a tone different from that which de Spain usually
associated with him. "Henry, when I was a youngster and going to Sunday-school, my old Aunt
Lou often told me a story about a pitcher that used to go to the well. And she told me it went
many, many times, safe and sound; but my Aunt Lou told me, further, the pitcher got so used
to going to the well safe and sound that it finally went once too many times, just once too
often, and got smashed all to hell. Aunt Lou didn't say it exactly in that way--but such was
the substance of the moral.

"You've pulled a good many tough games in this country, Henry. No man knows better than I that
you never pulled one for the looks of the thing or to make people talk--or that you ever took
a chance you didn't feel you had to take. But, it isn't humanly possible you can keep this
up for all time; it can't go on forever. The pitcher goes to the well once too often, Henry;
there comes a time when it doesn't come back.

"Understand--I'm not saying this to attempt to dissuade you from the worst job you ever started
in on. I know your mind is made up. You won't listen to me; you won't listen to Scott; and
I'm too good an Indian not to know where I get off, or not to do what I'm told. But this is
what I have been thinking of a long, long time; and this is what I feel I ought to say, here
and now."

The two men were sitting in de Spain's room. De Spain was staring through the broad south window
at the white-capped peaks of the distant range. He was silent for a time. "I believe you're
right, John," he said after a while. "I know you are. In this case I am tied up more than I've
ever been tied before; but I've got to see it through as best I can, and take what comes without
whining. My mind is made up and, strange as it may sound to you, I feel that I am coming back.
Not but what I know it's due me, John. Not but what I expect to get it sometime. And maybe
I'm wrong now; but I don't feel as if it's coming till I've given all the protection to that
girl that a man can give to a woman."

CHAPTER XXV

A SURPRISING SLIP

Scott was called by Lefever to conclude in secret the final arrangements. The ground about
the quaking asp grove, and nearest El Capitan, afforded the best concealment close to the Gap.
And to this point Scott was directed to bring what men he could before daybreak the following
morning.

"It's a short notice to get many men together--of the kind we want," admitted Lefever. "You'll
have to skirmish some between now and midnight. What do you think you can do?"

Scott had already made up a tentative list. He named four: first, Farrell Kennedy, who was
in town, and said nobody should go if he didn't; Frank Elpaso, the Texan; the Englishman, Tommie
Meggeson; and Wickwire, if he could be located--any one of them, Lefever knew, could give an
account of himself under all circumstances.

While Scott was getting his men together, de Spain, accompanied by Lefever, was riding toward
Music Mountain. Scott had urged on them but one parting caution--not to leave the aspens until
rain began falling. When he spoke there was not a cloud in the sky. "It's going to rain to-night,
just the same," predicted Scott. "Don't leave the trees till it gets going. Those Gap scouts
will get under cover and be hunting for a drink the minute it gets cold--I know them. You can
ride right over their toes, if you'll be patient."

The sun set across the range in a drift of grayish-black, low-lying clouds, which seemed only
to await its disappearance to envelop the mountains and empty their moisture on the desert.
By the time de Spain and Lefever reached the end of their long ride a misty rain was drifting
down from the west. The two men had just ridden into the quaking asps when a man coming out
of the Gap almost rode into them. The intruders had halted and were sufficiently hidden to
escape notice, had not Lefever's horse indiscreetly coughed. The man from the Gap reined up
and called out. Lefever answered.

"It's Bull Page," declared de Spain, after the exchange of a few words, calling to Bull at
the same time to come over to the shelter of the trees.

"What's going on in there, Bull?" asked de Spain after Bull had told him that Gale had driven
him out, and he was heading for Calabasas.

"You tell," retorted Page. "Looks to me like old Duke's getting ready to die. Gale says he's
going to draw his will to-night, and don't want nobody around--got old Judge Druel in there."

De Spain pricked up his ears. "What's that, Druel?" he demanded. Bull repeated his declaration.
Lefever broke into violent language at the Sleepy Cat jurist's expense, and ended by declaring
that no will should be drawn in the Gap that night by Duke Morgan or anybody else, unless he
and Bull were made legatees.

Beyond this nothing could be learned from Bull, who was persuaded without difficulty by Lefever
to abandon the idea of riding to Calabasas through the rain, and to spend the night with him
in the neighborhood, wherever fancy, the rain, and the wind--which was rising--should dictate.

While the two were talking de Spain tried to slip away, unobserved by Lefever, on his errand.
He failed, as he expected to, and after some familiar abuse, rode off alone, fortified by every
possible suggestion at the hands of a man to whom the slightest precaution was usually a joke.

Mountains never look blacker than when one rides into them conscious of the presence of enemies
and alert for signs and sounds. But custom dulls the edge of apprehension. De Spain rode slowly
up the main road without expecting to meet any one, and he reached the rise where the trail
forked to Duke's ranch unchallenged. Here he stopped his horse and looked down toward the roof
that sheltered Nan. Night had fallen everywhere, and the increasing rain obscured even the
outline of the house. But a light shone through one uncurtained window. He waited some time
for a sound of life, for a door to open or close, or for the dog to bark--he heard nothing.
Slipping out of the wet saddle, he led his horse in the darkness under the shelter of the lone
pine-tree and, securing him, walked slowly toward the house.

The light came from a window in the living-room. Up-stairs and toward the kitchen everything
was dark. De Spain walked gingerly around to where he could command the living-room window.
He could see within, the figures of three men but, owing to the dim light and the distance
at which he stood, he could identify none of them with certainty. Mindful of the admonitions
he had been loaded with, he tramped around the house in narrowing circles, pausing at times
to look and listen. In like manner he circled the barn and stables, until he had made sure
there was no ambush and that he was alone outside. He then went among the horses and, working
with a flash-light, found Nan's pony, a bridle and, after an ineffectual search for a saddle,
led the bareback horse out to where his own stood. Walking over to Nan's window he signalled
and called to her. Getting no answer, he tossed a bit of gravel up against her window. His
signal met with no response and, caching his rifle under the kitchen porch, he stepped around
to the front of the house, where, screened by a bit of shrubbery, he could peer at close range
into the living-room.

Standing before the fire burning in the open hearth, and with his back to it, he now saw Gale
Morgan. Sitting bolt upright beside the table, square-jawed and obdurate, his stubby brier
pipe supported by his hand and gripped in his great teeth, Duke Morgan looked uncompromisingly
past his belligerent nephew into the fire. A third and elderly man, heavy, red-faced, and almost
toothless as he spoke, sat to the right of the table in a rocking-chair, and looked at Duke;
this was the old lawyer and justice from Sleepy Cat, the sheriff's brother--Judge Druel.

Nan was not to be seen. Gale, big and aggressive, was doing most of the talking, and energetically,
as was his habit. Duke listened thoughtfully, but seemingly with coldness. Druel looked from
Gale to Duke, and appeared occasionally to put in a word to carry the argument along.

De Spain suspected nothing of what they were talking about, but he was uneasy concerning Nan,
and was not to be balked, by any combination, of his purpose of finding her. To secure information
concerning her was not possible, unless he should enter the house, and this, with scant hesitation,
he decided to do.

He wore a snug-fitting leathern coat. He unbuttoned this and threw it open as he stepped noiselessly
up to the door. Laying his hand on the knob, he paused, then, finding the door unlocked, he
pushed it slowly open.

The wind, rushing in, upset his calculations and blew open the door leading from the hall into
the living-room. A stream of light in turn shot through the open door, across the hall. Instantly
de Spain stepped inside and directly behind the front door--which he now realized he dare not
close--and stood expectant in the darkness. Gale Morgan, with an impatient exclamation, strode
from the fireplace to close the front door.

As he walked into the hall and slammed the front door shut, he could have touched with his
hand the man standing in the shadow behind it. De Spain, not hoping to escape, stood with folded
arms, but under the elbow of his left arm was hidden the long muzzle of his revolver. Holding
his breath, he waited. Gale's mind was apparently filled with other things. He did not suspect
the presence of an intruder, and he walked back into the living-room, partly closing the second
door. De Spain, following almost on his heels, stepped past this door, past the hall stairs
opposite it, and through a curtained opening at the end of the hall into the dining-room. Barely
ten feet from him, this room opened through an arch into the living-room, and where he stood
he could hear all that was said.

"Who's there?" demanded Duke gruffly.

"Nobody," said Gale. "Go on, Druel."

"That door never opened itself," persisted Duke.

"The wind blew it open," said Gale impatiently.

"I tell y' it didn't," responded Duke sternly; "somebody came in there, or went out. Maybe
she's slipped y'."

"Go up-stairs and see," bellowed Gale at his uncle.

Duke walked slowly out into the hall and, with some difficulty, owing to his injured back,
up the stairs. A curtain hung beside the arch where de Spain stood, and this he now drew around
him. Gale walked into the hall again, searched it, and waited at the foot of the stairs. De
Spain could hear Duke's rough voice up-stairs, but could neither distinguish his words nor
hear any response to them. Within a moment the elder man tramped heavily down again, saying
only, "She's there," and, followed by Gale, returned to the living-room.

"Now go on, Druel," exclaimed Gale, sitting down impatiently, "and talk quick."

Druel talked softly and through his nose: "I was only going to say it would be a good idea
to have two witnesses."

"Nita," suggested Gale.

Duke was profane. "You couldn't keep the girl in the room if she had Nita to help her. And
I want it understood, Gale, between you and me, fair and square, that Nan's goin' to live right
here with me after this marriage till I'm satisfied she's willing to go to you--otherwise it
can't take place, now nor never."

De Spain opened his ears. Gale felt the hard, cold tone of his crusty relative, and answered
with like harshness: "What do you keep harping on that for? You've got my word. All I want
of you is to keep yours--understand?"

"Come, come," interposed Druel. "There's no need of hard words. But we need two witnesses.
Who's going to be the other witness?"

Before any one could answer de Spain stepped out into the open archway before the three men.
"I'll act as the second witness," he said.

With a common roar the Morgans bounded to their feet. They were not unused to sudden onslaughts,
nor was either of them a man to shrink from a fight at short quarters, if it came to that,
but blank astonishment overwhelmed both. De Spain, standing slightly sidewise, his coat lapels
flapped wide open, his arms akimbo, and his hands on his hips, faced the three in an attitude
of readiness only. He had reckoned on the instant of indecision which at times, when coupled
with apprehension, paralyzes the will of two men acting together. Under the circumstances either
of the Morgans alone would have whipped a gun on de Spain at sight. Together, and knowing that
to do so meant death to the one that took the first shot from the archway, each waited for
the other; that fraction of a second unsettled their purpose. Instead of bullets, each launched
curses at the intruder, and every second that passed led away from a fight.

De Spain took their oaths, demands, and abuse without batting an eye. "I'm here for the second
witness," was all he repeated, covering both men with short glances. Druel, his face muddily
white as the whiskey bloat deserted it, shrunk inside his shabby clothes. He seemed, every
time de Spain darted a look at him, to grow visibly smaller, until his loose bulk had shrivelled
inside an armchair hardly large enough normally to contain it.

De Spain with each epithet hurled at him took a dreaded forward step toward Gale, and Druel,
in the line of fire, brought his knees up and his head down till he curled like a porcupine.
Gale, game as he undoubtedly was, cornered, felt perhaps recollections of Calabasas and close
quarters with the brown eyes and the burning face. What they might mean in this little room,
which de Spain was crossing step by step, was food for thought. Nor did de Spain break his
obstinate silence until their burst of rage had blown. "You've arranged your marriage," he
said at length. "Now pull it."

"My cousin's ready to marry me, and she's goin' to do it to-night," cried Gale violently.

Duke, towering with rage, looked at de Spain and pointed to the hall door. "You hear that!
Get out of my house!" he cried, launching a vicious epithet with the words.

"This isn't your house," retorted de Spain angrily. "This house is Nan's, not yours. When she
orders me out I'll go. Bring her down," he thundered, raising his voice to shut off Duke, who
had redoubled his abuse. "Bring her into this room," he repeated. "We'll see whether she wants
to get married. If she does, I'll marry her. If she doesn't, and you've been putting this up
to force her into marrying, so help me God, you'll be carried out of this room to-night, or
I will." He whirled on her uncle with an accusing finger. "You used to be a man, Duke. I've
taken from you here to-night what I would take from no man on earth but for the sake of Nan
Morgan. She asked me never to touch you. But if you've gone into this thing to trap your own
flesh and blood, your dead brother's girl, living under your own protection, you don't deserve
mercy, and to-night you shall have what's coming to you. I've fought you both fair, too fair.
Now--before I leave--it's my girl or both of you."

He was standing near Druel. Without taking his eyes off the other men, he caught Druel with
his left hand by the coat collar, and threw him half-way across the room. "Get up-stairs, you
old carrion, and tell Nan Morgan, Henry de Spain is here to talk to her."

Druel, frightened to death, scrambled into the hall. He turned on de Spain. "I'm an officer
of the law. I arrest you for trespass and assault," he shouted, shaking with fear.

"Arrest me?" echoed de Spain contemptuously. "You scoundrel, if you don't climb those stairs
I'll send you to the penitentiary the day I get back to town. Up-stairs with your message!"

"It isn't necessary," said a low voice in the hall, and with the words Nan appeared in the
open doorway. Her face was white, but there was no sign of haste or panic in it; de Spain choked
back a breath; to him she never had looked in her silence so awe-inspiring.

He addressed her, holding his left hand out with his plea. "Nan," he said, controlling his
voice, "these men were getting ready to marry you to Gale Morgan. No matter how you feel toward
me now, you know me well enough to know that all I want is the truth: Was this with your consent?"

She stepped into the line of fire between her cousin and de Spain as she answered. "No. You
know I shall never marry any man but you. This vile bully," she turned a little to look at
her angry cousin, "has influenced Uncle Duke--who never before tried to persecute or betray
me--into joining him in this thing. They never could have dragged me into it alive. And they've
kept me locked for three days in a room up-stairs, hoping to break me down."

"Stand back, Nan."

If de Spain's words of warning struck her with terror of a situation she could not control,
she did not reveal it. "No," she said resolutely. "If anybody here is to be shot, I'll be first.
Uncle Duke, you have always protected me from Gale Morgan; now you join hands with him. You
drive me from this roof because I don't know how I can protect myself under it."

Gale looked steadily at her. "You promised to marry me," he muttered truculently. "I'll find
a way to make you keep your word."

A loud knocking interrupted him, and, without waiting to be admitted, Pardaloe, the cowboy,
opened the front door and stalked boldly in from the hall.

If the situation in the room surprised him he gave no evidence of it. And as he walked in Nan
disappeared. Pardaloe was drenched with rain, and, taking off his hat as he crossed the room
to the fire, he shook it hard into the blazing wood.

"What do you want, Pardaloe?" snapped Duke.

Pardaloe shook his hat once more and turned a few steps so that he stood between the uncurtained
window and the light. "The creek's up," he said to Duke in his peculiarly slow, steady tone.
"Some of Satt's boys are trying to get the cattle out of the lower corral." He fingered his
hat, looked first at Duke, then at Gale, then at de Spain. "Guess they'll need a little help,
so I asked Sassoon to come over--" Pardaloe jerked his head indicatively toward the front.
"He's outside with some of the boys now."

"Tell Sassoon to come in here!" thundered Gale.

De Spain's left arm shot out. "Hold on, Pardaloe; pull down that curtain behind you!"

"Don't touch that curtain, Pardaloe!" shouted Gale Morgan.

"Pardaloe," said de Spain, his left arm pointing menacingly and walking instantly toward him,
"pull that curtain or pull your gun, quick." At that moment Nan, in hat and coat, reappeared
in the archway behind de Spain. Pardaloe jerked down the curtain and started for the door.
De Spain had backed up again. "Stop, Pardaloe," he called. "My men are outside that door. Stand
where you are," he ordered, still enforcing his commands with his right hand covering the holster
at his hip. "I leave this room first. Nan, are you ready?" he asked, without looking at her.

"Yes."

Her uncle's face whitened. "Don't leave this house to-night, Nan," he said menacingly.

"You've forced me to, Uncle Duke."

"Don't leave this house to-night."

"I can't protect myself in it."

"Don't leave this house--most of all, with that man!" He pointed at de Spain with a frenzy
of hatred. Without answering, the two were retreating into the semidarkness of the dining-room.
"Nan," came her uncle's voice, hoarse with feeling, "you're saying good-by to me forever."

"No, uncle," she cried. "I am only doing what I have to do."

"I tell you I don't want to drive you from this roof, girl."

A rush of wind from an opening door was the only answer from the dark dining-room. The two
Morgans started forward together. The sudden gust sucked the flame of the living-room lamp
up into the chimney and after a brief, sharp struggle extinguished it. In the confusion it
was a moment before a match could be found. When the lamp was relighted the Morgans ran into
the dining-room. The wind and rain poured in through the open north door. But the room was empty.

Duke turned on his nephew with a choking curse. "This," he cried, beside himself with fury,
"is your work!"

CHAPTER XXVI

FLIGHT

It was a forbidding night. Moisture-laden clouds, drifting over the Superstition Range, emptied
their fulness against the face of the mountains in a downpour and buried the Gap in impenetrable
darkness. De Spain, catching Nan's arm, spoke hurriedly, and they hastened outside toward the
kitchen. "We must get away quick," he said as she buttoned her coat. And, knowing how she suffered
in what she was doing, he drew her into the shelter of the porch and caught her close to him.
"It had to come, Nan. Don't shed a tear. I'll take you straight to Mrs. Jeffries. When you
are ready, you'll marry me; we'll make our peace with your Uncle Duke together. Great God!
What a night! This way, dearie."

"No, to the stable, Henry! Where's your horse?"

"Under the pine, and yours, too. I found the pony, but I couldn't find your saddle, Nan."

"I know where it's hidden. Let's get the horses."

"Just a minute. I stuck my rifle under this porch." He stooped and felt below the stringer.
Rising in a moment with the weapon on his arm, the two hurried around the end of the house
toward the pine-tree. They had almost reached this when a murmur unlike the sounds of the storm
made de Spain halt his companion.

"What is it?" she whispered. He listened intently. While they stood still the front door of
the house was opened hurriedly. A man ran out along the porch toward the stable. Neither Nan
nor de Spain could make out who it was, but de Spain heard again the suspicious sound that
had checked him. Without speaking, he took Nan and retreated to the corner of the house. "There
is somebody in that pine," he whispered, "waiting for me to come after the horses. Sassoon
may have found them. I'll try it out, anyway, before I take a chance. Stand back here, Nan."

He put her behind the corner of the house, threw his rifle to his shoulder, and fired as nearly
as he could in the darkness toward and just above the pine. Without an instant's hesitation
a pistol-shot answered from the direction in which he had fired, and in another moment a small
fusillade followed. "By the Almighty," muttered de Spain, "we must have our horses, Nan. Stay
right here. I'll try driving those fellows off their perch."

She caught his arm. "What are you going to do?"

"Run in on them from cover, wherever I can find it, Nan, and push them back. We've got to have
those horses."

"Henry, we can get others from the stable."

"There may be more men waiting there for us."

"If we could only get away without a fight!"

"This is Sassoon and his gang, Nan. You heard Pardaloe. These are not your people. I've got
to drive 'em, or we're gone, Nan."

"Then I go with you."

"No."

"Yes!" Her tone was unmistakable.

"Nan, you can't do it," whispered de Spain energetically. "A chance bullet----"

She spoke with decision: "I go with you. I can use a rifle. Better both of us be killed than
one. Help me up on this roof. I've climbed it a hundred times. My rifle is in my room. Quick,
Henry."

Overruling his continued objections, she lifted her foot to his hand, caught hold of the corner-post,
and springing upward got her hands on the low end of the roof boards. With the agility of a
cat, she put her second foot on de Spain's shoulder, gained the sloping roof, and scrambled
on her hands and knees up toward the window of her room. The heavy rain and the slippery boards
made progress uncertain, but with scarcely any delay, she reached her window and pushed open
the casement sash. A far-off peal of thunder echoed down from the mountains. Luckily, no flash
had preceded it, and Nan, rifle in hand, slid safely down to the end of the lean-to, where
de Spain, waiting, caught one foot on his shoulder, and helped her to the ground. He tried
again to make her stay behind the house. Finding his efforts vain, he directed her how to make
a zigzag advance, how to utilize for cover every rock and tree she could find in the line toward
the pine, and, above all, to throw herself flat and sidewise after every shot--and not to fire
often.

In this way, amid the falling of rain and the uncharted dangers of the darkness, they advanced
on the pine-tree. Surprisingly little effort seemed necessary to drive off whoever held it.
De Spain made his way slowly but safely to the disputed point and then understood--the horses
were gone.

He had hardly rejoined Nan, who waited at a safe distance, and told her the bad news, when
a fresh discharge of shots came from two directions--seemingly from the house and the stable.
A moment later they heard sharp firing far down the Gap. This was their sole avenue of escape.
It was bad enough, under the circumstances, to negotiate the trail on horseback--but to expose
Nan, who had but just put herself under his protection, to death from a chance bullet while
stumbling along on foot, surrounded by enemies--who could follow the flash of their own shots
if they were forced to use their rifles, and close in on them at will--was an undertaking not
to be faced.

They withdrew to the shelter of a large rock familiar to Nan even in the dark. While de Spain
was debating in his mind how to meet the emergency, she stood at his side, his equal, he knew,
in courage, daring, and resource, and answered his rapid questions as to possible gateways
of escape. The rain, which had been abating, now ceased, but from every fissure in the mountains
came the roar of rushing water, and little openings of rock and waterway that might have offered
a chance when dry were now out of the question. In fact, it was Nan's belief that before morning
water would be running over the main trail itself.

"Yet," said de Spain finally, "before morning we must be a long way from this particular spot,
Nan. Lefever is down there--I haven't the slightest doubt of that. Sassoon has posted men at
the neck of the Gap--that's the first thing he would do. And if John heard my rifle when I
first shot, he would be for breaking in here, and his men, if they've come up, would bump into
Sassoon's. It would be insane for us to try to get out over the trail with Sassoon holding
it against Lefever--we might easily be hit by our friends instead of our enemies. I'll tell
you what, Nan, suppose I scout down that way alone and see what I can find out?"

He put the proposal very lightly, realizing almost as soon as he made it what her answer would
be. "Better we go together," she answered in the steady tone he loved to hear. "If you were
killed, what would become of me? I should rather be shot than fall into his hands after this--if
there was ever a chance for it before, there'd be no mercy now. Let's go together."

He would not consent, and she knew he was right. But what was right for one was right, she
told him, for both, and what was wrong for one was wrong for both. "Then, I'll tell you," he
said suddenly, as when after long uncertainty and anxious doubt one chooses an alternative
and hastens to follow it. "Retreat is the thing for us, Nan. Let's make for Music Mountain
and crawl into our cave till morning. Lefever will get in here some time to-morrow. Then we
can connect with him."

They discussed the move a little further, but there seemed no escape from the necessity of
it, despite the hardship involved in reaching the refuge; and, realizing that no time was to
be lost, they set out on the long journey. Every foot of the troublesome way offered difficulties.
Water impeded them continually. It lay in shallow pools underfoot and slipped in running sheets
over the sloping rocks that lay in their obscure path. Sometimes de Spain led, sometimes Nan
picked their trail. But for her perfect familiarity with every foot of the ground they could
not have got to the mountain at all.

Even before they succeeded in reaching the foot of it their ears warned them of a more serious
obstacle ahead. When they got to the mountain trail itself they heard the roar of the stream
that made the waterfall above the ledge they were trying to reach. Climbing hardly a dozen
steps, they found their way swept by a mad rush of falling water, its deafening roar punctured
by fragments of loosened rock which, swept downward from ledge to ledge, split and thundered
as they dashed themselves against the mountainside. On a protected floor the two stood for
a moment, listening to the roar of the cataract that had cut them off their refuge.

"No use, Nan," said de Spain. "There isn't any other trail, is there?"

She told him there was no other. "And this will run all night," she added. "Sometimes it runs
like this for days. I ought to have known there would be a flood here. But it all depends on
which side of the mountain the heavy rain falls. Henry," she said, turning to him and as if
thinking of a question she wanted to ask, "how did you happen to come to me just to-night when
I wanted you so?"

"I came because you sent for me," he answered, surprised.

"But I didn't send for you."

He stopped, dumfounded. "What do you mean, Nan?" he demanded uneasily. "I got your message
on the telephone to come at once and take you away."

"Henry! I didn't send any message--when did you get one?"

"Last night, in my office in Sleepy Cat, from a man that refused to give his name."

"I never sent any message to you," she insisted in growing wonderment. "I have been locked
in a room for three days, dearie. The Lord knows I wanted to send you word. Who ever telephoned
a message like that? Was it a trap to get you in here?"

He told her the story--of the strenuous efforts he had made to discover the identity of the
messenger--and how he had been balked. "No matter," said Nan, at last. "It couldn't have been
a trap. It must have been a friend, surely, not an enemy."

"Or," said de Spain, bending over her as if he were afraid she might escape, and putting his
face close to hers, "some mildly curious person, some idle devil, Nan, that wanted to see what
two timid men would look like, mixed up in a real fight over the one girl in the mountains
both are trying to marry at once."

"Henry," every time she repeated his name de Spain cared less for what should happen in the
rest of the world, "what are we going to do now? We can't stay here all night--and take what
they will greet us with in the morning."

He answered her question with another: "What about trying to get out by El Capitan?"

She started in spite of herself. "I mean," he added, "just to have a look over there, Nan."

"How could you even have a look a night like this?" she asked, overcome at the thought of the
dizzy cliff. "It would be certain death, Henry."

"I don't mean at the worst to try to cross it till we get a glimpse of daylight. But it's quite
a way over there. I remember some good hiding-places along that trail. We may find one where
I can build a little fire and dry you out. I'm more worried over you being wet all night than
the rest of it. The question is, Can we find a trail up to where we want to go?"

"I know two or three," she answered, "if they are only not flooded."

The storm seemed to have passed, but the darkness was intense, and from above the northern
Superstitions came low mutterings of thunder. Compelled to strike out over the rocks to get
up to any of the trails toward El Capitan, Nan, helped by de Spain when he could help, led
the ascent toward the first ledge they could hope to follow on their dangerous course.

The point at which the two climbed almost five hundred feet that night up Music Mountain is
still pointed out in the Gap. An upturned rock at the foot, a stunted cedar jutting from the
ledge at the point they finally gained, marked the beginning and end of their effort. No person,
looking at that confused wall, willingly believes it could ever have been scaled in the dead
of night. Torn, bruised, and exhausted, Nan, handed up by her lover, threw herself at last
prostrate on the ledge at the real beginning of their trail, and from that vantage-point they
made their way along the eastern side of Music Mountain for two miles before they stopped again
to rest.

It was already well after midnight. A favoring spot was seized on by de Spain for the resting-place
he wanted. A dry recess beneath an overhanging wall made a shelter for the fire that he insisted
on building to warm Nan in her soaked clothing. He found cedar roots in the dark and soon had
a blaze going. It was dangerous, both realized, to start a fire, but they concealed the blaze
as best they could and took the chance--a chance that more nearly than any that had gone before,
cost them their lives. But what still lay ahead of the two justified in de Spain's mind what
he was doing. He acted deliberately in risking the exposure of their position to unfriendly
eyes far distant.

CHAPTER XXVII

EL CAPITAN

The mutterings above the mountains now grew rapidly louder and while the two hovered over the
fire, a thunder-squall, rolling wildly down the eastern slope, burst over the Gap. Its sudden
fury put aside for a time all question of moving, and Nan's face took on a grave expression
as she looked in the firelight at her companion, thinking of how far such a storm might imperil
their situation, how far cut off their already narrow chance of escape.

De Spain--reclining close beside her, looking into the depths of her eyes as the flickering
blaze revealed them, drying himself in their warmth and light, eating and drinking of their
presence on the mountainside alone with him, and pledged to him, his protection, and his fortunes
against the world--apparently thought of nothing beyond the satisfaction of the moment. The
wind drove the storm against the west side of the huge granite peak under which they were sheltered
and gave them no present trouble in their slender recess. But Nan knew even better than her
companion the fickle fury of a range storm, and understood uncomfortably well how a sudden
shift might, at any moment, lay their entire path open to its fierceness. She warned de Spain
they must be moving, and, freshened by the brief rest, they set out toward El Capitan.

Their trail lay along granite levels of comparatively good going and, fleeing from the squall,
they had covered more than half the distance that separated them from the cliff, when a second
thunder-storm, seeming to rush in from the desert, burst above their heads. Drenched with rain,
they were forced to draw back under a projecting rock. In another moment the two storms, meeting
in the Gap, crashed together. Bolt upon bolt of lightning split the falling sheets of water,
and thunder, exploding in their faces, stunned and deafened them.

Mountain peaks, played on by the wild light, leaped like spectres out of the black, and granite
crags, searched by blazing shafts, printed themselves in ghostly flames on the retina; thunder,
searching unnumbered gorges, echoed beneath the sharper crashes in one long, unending roll,
and far out beyond the mountains the flooded desert tossed on a dancing screen into the glare,
rippled like a madcap sea, and flashed in countless sheets of blinding facets. As if an unseen
hand had touched a thousand granite springs above the Gap, every slender crevice spouted a
stream that shot foaming out from the mountainsides. The sound of moving waters rose in a dull,
vast roar, broken by the unseen boom of distant falls, launching huge masses of water into
caverns far below. The storm-laden wind tore and swirled among the crowded peaks, and above
all the angry sky moaned and quivered in the rage of the elements.

Nan leaned within de Spain's arm. "If this keeps up," he said after some time, "our best play
is to give up crossing to-night. We might hide somewhere on the mountain to-morrow, and try
it toward evening."

"Yes, if we have to," she answered. But he perceived her reluctant assent. "What I am afraid
of, Henry, is, if they were to find us. You know what I mean."

"Then we won't hide," he replied. "The minute we get the chance we will run for it. This is
too fierce to last long."

"Oh, but it's November!" Nan reminded him apprehensively. "It's winter; that's what makes it
so cold. You never can tell in November."

"It won't last all night, anyway," he answered with confidence.

Despite his assurance, however, it did last all night, and it was only the lulls between the
sharp squalls that enabled them to cover the trail before daylight. When they paused before
El Capitan the fury of the night seemed largely to have exhausted itself, but the overcharged
air hung above the mountains, trembling and moaning like a bruised and stricken thing. Lightning,
playing across the inky heavens, blazed in constant sheets from end to end of the horizon.
Its quivering glare turned the wild night into a kind of ghastly, uncertain day. Thunder, hoarse
with invective, and hurled mercilessly back and forth by the fitful wind, drew farther and
farther into the recess of the mountains, only to launch its anger against its own imprisoned
echoes. Under it all the two refugees, high on the mountainside, looked down on the flooding Gap.

Their flight was almost ended. Only the sheer cliff ahead blocked their descent to the aspen
grove. De Spain himself had already crossed El Capitan once, and he had done it at night--but
it was not, he was compelled to remind himself, on a night like this. It seemed now a madman's
venture and, without letting himself appear to do so, he watched Nan's face as the lightning
played over it, to read if he could, unsuspected, whether she still had courage for the undertaking.
She regarded him so collectedly, whether answering a question or asking one, that he marvelled
at her strength and purpose. Hardly a moment passed after they had started until the eastern
sky lightened before the retreating storm, and with the first glimmer of daylight, the two
were at the beginning of the narrow foothold which lay for half a mile between them and safety.

Here the El Capitan trail follows the face of the almost vertical wall which, rising two thousand
feet in the air, fronts the gateway of Morgan's Gap.

They started forward, de Spain ahead. There was nothing now to hurry them unduly, and everything
to invite caution. The footholds were slippery, rivulets still crossed the uncertain path,
and fragments of rock that had washed down on the trail, made almost every step a new hazard.
The face of El Capitan presents, midway, a sharp convex. Just where it is thrown forward in
this keen angle, the trail runs out almost to a knife-edge, and the mountain is so nearly vertical
that it appears to overhang the floor of the valley.

They made half the stretch of this angle with hardly a misstep, but the advance for a part
of the way was a climb, and de Spain, turning once to speak to Nan, asked her for her rifle,
that he might carry it with his own. What their story might have been had she given it to him,
none can tell. But Nan, holding back, refused to let him relieve her. The dreaded angle which
had haunted de Spain all night was safely turned on hands and knees and, as they rounded it
toward the east, clouds scudding over the open desert broke and shot the light of dawn against
the beetling arête.

De Spain turned in some relief to point to the coming day. As he did so a gust of wind, sweeping
against the sheer wall, caught him off his guard. He regained his balance, but a stone, slipping
underfoot, tipped him sidewise, and he threw himself on his knees to avoid the dizzy edge.
As he fell forward he threw up his hand to save his hat, and in doing so released his rifle,
which lay under his hand on the rock. Before he could recover it the rifle slipped from reach.
In the next instant he heard it bouncing from rock to rock, five hundred feet below.

Greatly annoyed and humiliated, he regained his feet and spoke with a laugh to reassure Nan.
Just as she answered not to worry, a little singing scream struck their ears; something splashed
suddenly close at hand against the rock wall; chips scattered between them. From below, the
sound of a rifle report cracked against the face of the cliff. They were so startled, so completely
amazed that they stood motionless. De Spain looked down and over the uneven floor of the Gap.
The ranch-houses, spread like toys in the long perspective, lay peacefully revealed in the
gray of the morning. Among the dark pine-trees he could discern Nan's own home. Striving with
the utmost keenness of vision to detect where the shot had come from, de Spain could discover
no sign of life around any of the houses. But in another moment the little singing scream came
again, the blow of the heavy slug against the splintering rock was repeated, the distant report
of the rifle followed.

"Under fire," muttered de Spain. He looked questioningly at Nan. She herself, gazing across
the dizzy depths, was searching for the danger-point. A third shot followed at a seemingly
regular interval--the deliberate interval needed by a painstaking marksman working out his
range and taking his time to find it. De Spain watched Nan's search anxiously. "We'd better
keep moving," he said. "Come! whoever is shooting can follow us a hundred yards either way."
In front of de Spain a fourth bullet struck the rock. "Nan," he muttered, "I've got you into
a fix. If we can't stop that fellow he is liable to stop us. Can you see anything?" he asked,
waiting for her to come up.

"Henry!" She was looking straight down into the valley, and laid her hand on de Spain's shoulder.
"Is there anything moving on the ridge--over there--see--just east of Sassoon's ranch-house?"

De Spain, his eyes bent on the point Nan indicated, drew her forward to a dip in the trail
which, to one stretched flat, afforded a slight protection. He made her lie down, and just
beyond her refuge chose a point where the path, broadening a little and rising instead of sloping
toward the outer edge, gave him a chance to brace himself between two rocks. Flattened there
like a target in mid-air, he threw his hat down to Nan and, resting on one knee, waited for
the shot that should tumble him down El Capitan or betray the man bent on killing him. Squalls
of wind, sweeping into the Gap and sucked upward on the huge expanse of rock below, tossed
his hair and ballooned his coat as he buttoned it. Another bullet, deliberately aimed, chipped
the rock above him. Nan, agonizing in her suspense, cried out she must join him and go with
him if he went. He steadied her apprehension and with a few words reminded her, as a riflewoman,
what a gamble every shot at a height such as they occupied, and with such a wind, must be.
He reminded her, too, it was much easier to shoot down than up, but all the time he was searching
for the flash that should point the assassin. A bullet struck again viciously close between
them. De Spain spoke slowly: "Give me your rifle." Without turning his head he held out his
hand, keeping his eyes rigidly on the suspicious spot on the ridge. "How far is it to that
road, Nan?"

She looked toward the faint line that lay in the deep shadows below. "Three hundred yards."

"Nan, if it wasn't for you, I couldn't travel this country at all," he remarked with studious
unconcern. "Last time I had no ammunition--this time, no rifle--you always have what's needed.
How high are we, Nan?"

"Seven hundred feet."

"Elevate for me, Nan, will you?"

"Remember the wind," she faltered, adjusting the sight as he had asked.

With the cautioning words she passed the burnished weapon, glittering yet with the rain-drops,
into his hand. A flash came from the distant ridge. Throwing the rifle to his shoulder, de
Spain covered a hardly perceptible black object on the trail midway between Sassoon's ranch-house
and a little bridge which he well remembered--he had crossed it the night he dragged Sassoon
into town. It seemed a long time that he pressed the rifle back against his shoulder and held
his eye along the barrel. He was wondering as he covered the crouching man with the deadly
sight which of his enemies this might be. He even slipped the rifle from his shoulder and looked
long and silently at the black speck before he drew the weapon back again into place. Then
he fired before Nan could believe he had lined the sights. Once, twice, three times his hand
fell and rose sharply on the lever, with every mark of precision, yet so rapidly Nan could
not understand how he could discover what his shots were doing.

The fire came steadily back, and deliberately, without the least intimation of being affected
by de Spain's return. It was a duel shorn of every element of equality, with an assassin at
one end of the range, and a man flattened half-way up the clouds against El Capitan at the
other, each determined to kill the other before he should stir one more foot.

Far above, an eagle, in morning flight, soared majestically out from a jutting crag and circled
again and again in front of El Capitan, while the air sang with the whining dice that two gamblers
against death threw across the gulf between them. Nan, half hidden in her trough of rock, watched
the great bird poise and wheel above the deadly firing, and tried to close her eyes to the
figure of de Spain above her, fighting for her life and his own.

She had never before seen a man shooting to kill another. The very horror of watching de Spain,
at bay among the rocks, fascinated her. Since the first day they had met she had hardly seen
a rifle in his hands.

Realizing how slightly she had given thought to him or to his skill at that time, she saw now,
spellbound, how a challenge to death, benumbing her with fear, had transformed him into a silent,
pitiless foeman, fighting with a lightning-like decision that charged every motion with a fatality
for his treacherous enemy. Her rifle, at his shoulder, no longer a mere mechanism, seemed in
his hands something weightless, sensible, alive, a deadly part of his arm and eye and brain.
There was no question, no thought of adjusting or handling or haste in his fire, but only an
incredible swiftness and sureness that sent across the thin-aired chasm a stream of deadly
messengers to seek a human life. She could only hope and pray, without even forming the words,
that none of her blood were behind the other rifle, for she felt that, whoever was, could never
escape.

She tried not to look. The butt of the heating rifle lay close against the red-marked cheek
she knew so well, and to the tips of the fingers every particle of the man's being was alive
with strength and resource. Some strange fascination drew her senses out toward him as he knelt
and threw shot after shot at the distant figure hidden on the ridge. She wanted to climb closer,
to throw herself between him and the bullets meant for him. She held out her arms and clasped
her hands toward him in an act of devotion. Then while she looked, breathlessly, he took his
eyes an instant from the sights. "He's running!" exclaimed de Spain as the rifle butt went
instantly back to his cheek. "Whoever he is, God help him now!"

The words were more fearful to Nan than an imprecation. He had driven his enemy from the scant
cover of a rut in the trail, and the man was fleeing for new cover and for life. The speck
of black in the field of intense vision was moving rapidly toward the ranch-house. Bullet after
bullet pitilessly led the escaping wretch. Death dogged every eager footfall. Suddenly de Spain
jerked the rifle from his cheek, threw back his head, and swept his left hand across his straining
eyes. Once more the rifle came up to place and, waiting for a heartbeat, to press the trigger,
he paused an instant. Flame shot again in the gray morning light from the hot muzzle. The rifle
fell away from the shoulder. The black speck running toward the ranch-house stumbled, as if
stricken by an axe, and sprawled headlong on the trail. Throwing the lever again like lightning,
de Spain held the rifle back to his cheek.

He did not fire. Second after second he waited, Nan, lying very still, watching, mute, the
dull-red mark above the wet rifle butt. No one had need to tell her what had happened. Too
well she read the story in de Spain's face and in what she saw, as he knelt, perfectly still,
only waiting to be sure there was no ruse. She watched the rifle come slowly down, unfired,
and saw his drawn face slowly relax. Without taking his eyes off the sprawling speck, he rose
stiffly to his feet. As if in a dream she saw his hand stretched toward her and heard, as he
looked across the far gulf, one word: "Come!"

They reached the end of the trail. De Spain, rifle in hand, looked back. The sun, bursting
in splendor across the great desert, splashed the valley and the low-lying ridge with ribboned
gold. Farther up the Gap, horsemen, stirred by the firing, were riding rapidly down toward
Sassoon's ranch-house. But the black thing in the sunshine lay quite still.

CHAPTER XXVIII

LEFEVER TO THE RESCUE

Lefever, chafing in the aspen grove under the restraint of waiting in the storm, was ready
long before daylight to break orders and ride in to find de Spain.

With the first peep of dawn, and with his men facing him in their saddles, Lefever made a short
explanation.

"I don't want any man to go into the Gap with me this morning under any misunderstanding or
any false pretense," he began cheerfully. "Bob Scott and Bull will stay right here. If, by
any chance, de Spain makes his way out while the rest of us are hunting for him, you'll be
here to signal us--three shots, Bob--or to ride in with de Spain to help carry the rest of
us out. Now, it's like this," he added, addressing the others. "You, all of you know, or ought
to know--everybody 'twixt here and the railroad knows--that de Spain and Nan Morgan have fastened
up to each other for the long ride down the dusty trail together. That, I take it, is their
business. But her uncle, old Duke, and Gale, and the whole bunch, I hear, turned dead sore
on it, and have fixed it up to beat them. You all know the Morgans. They're some bunch--and
they stick for one another like hornets, and all hold together in a fight. So I don't want
any man to ride in there with me thinking he's going to a wedding. He isn't. He may or may
not be going to a funeral, but he's not going to a shivaree."

Frank Elpaso glanced sourly at his companions. "I guess everybody here is wise, John."

"I know you are, Frank," retorted Lefever testily; "that's all right. I'm only explaining.
And I don't want you to get sore on me if I don't show you a fight." Frank Elpaso grunted.
"I am under orders." John waved his hand. "And I can't do anything----"

"But talk," growled Frank Elpaso, not waving his hand.

Lefever started hotly forward in his saddle. "Now look here, Frank." He pointed his finger
at the objecting ranger. "I'm here for business, not for pleasure. Any time I'm free you can
talk to me----"

"Not till somebody gags you, John," interposed Elpaso moodily.

"Look here, Elpaso," demanded Lefever, spurring his horse smartly toward the Texan, "are you
looking for a fight with me right here and now?"

"Yes, here and now," declared Elpaso fiercely.

"Or, there and then," interposed Kennedy, ironically, "some time, somewhere, or no time, nowhere.
Having heard all of which, a hundred and fifty times from you two fellows, let us have peace.
You've pulled it so often, over at Sleepy Cat, they've got it in double-faced, red-seal records.
Let's get started."

"Right you are, Farrell," assented Lefever, "but----"

"Second verse, John. You're boss here; what are we going to do? That's all we want to know."

"Henry's orders were to wait here till ten o'clock this morning. There's been firing inside
twice since twelve o'clock last night. He told me to pay no attention to that. But if the whole
place hadn't been under water all night, I'd have gone in, anyway. This last time it was two
high-powered guns, picking at long range and, if I'm any judge of rifles and the men probably
behind them, some one must have got hurt. It's all a guess--but I'm going in there, peaceably
if I can, to look for Henry de Spain; if we are fired on--we've got to fight for it. And if
there's any talking to be done----"

"You can do it," grunted Elpaso.

"Thank you, Frank. And I will do it. I need not say that Kennedy will ride ahead with me, Elpaso
and Wickwire with Tommie Meggeson."

Leaving Scott in the trees, the little party trotted smartly up the road, picking their way
through the pools and across the brawling streams that tore over the trail toward Duke Morgan's
place. The condition of the trail broke their formation continually and Lefever, in the circumstances,
was not sorry. His only anxiety was to keep Elpaso from riding ahead far enough to embroil
them in a quarrel before he himself should come up.

Half-way to Duke's house they found a small bridge had gone out. It cut off the direct road,
and, at Elpaso's suggestion, they crossed over to follow the ridge up the valley. Swimming
their horses through the backwater that covered the depression to the south, they gained the
elevation and proceeded, unmolested, on their way. As they approached Sassoon's place, Elpaso,
riding ahead, drew up his horse and sat a moment studying the trail and casting an occasional
glance in the direction of the ranch-house, which lay under the brow of a hill ahead.

When Lefever rode up to him, he saw the story that Elpaso was reading in the roadway. It told
of a man shot in his tracks as he was running toward the house--and, in the judgment of these
men, fatally shot--for, while his companions spread like a fan in front of him, Lefever got
off his horse and, bending intently over the sudden page torn out of a man's life, recast the
scene that had taken place, where he stood, half an hour earlier. Some little time Lefever
spent patiently deciphering the story printed in the rutted road, and marked by a wide crimson
splash in the middle of it. He rose from his study at length and followed back the trail of
the running feet that had been stricken at the pool. He stopped in front of a fragment of rock
jutting up beside the road, studied it a while and, looking about, picked up a number of empty
cartridge-shells, examined them, and tossed them away. Then he straightened up and looked searchingly
across the Gap. Only the great, silent face of El Capitan confronted him. It told no tales.

"If this was Henry de Spain," muttered Elpaso, when Lefever rejoined his companions, "he won't
care whether you join him now, or at ten o'clock, or never."

"That is not Henry," asserted Lefever with his usual cheer. "Not within forty rows of apple-trees.
It's not Henry's gun, not Henry's heels, not Henry's hair, and thereby, not Henry's head that
was hit that time. But it was to a finish--and blamed if at first it didn't scare me. I thought
it might be Henry. Hang it, get down and see for yourselves, boys."

Elpaso answered his invitation with an inquiry. "Who was this fellow fighting with?"

"That, also, is a question. Certainly not with Henry de Spain, because the other fellow, I
think, was using soft-nosed bullets. No white man does that, much less de Spain."

"Unless he used another rifle," suggested Kennedy.

"Tell me how they could get his own rifle away from him if he could fire a gun at all. I don't
put Henry quite as high with a rifle as with a revolver--if you want to split hairs--mind,
I say, if you want to split hairs. But no man that's ever seen him handle either would want
to try to take any kind of a gun from him. Whoever it was," Lefever got up into his saddle
again, "threw some ounces of lead into that piece of rock back there, though I don't understand
how any one could see a man lying behind it.

"Anyway, whoever was hit here has been carried down the road. We'll try Sassoon's ranch-house
for news, if they don't open on us with rifles before we get there."

In the sunshine a man in shirt sleeves, and leaning against the jamb, stood in the open doorway
of Sassoon's shack, watching the invaders as they rode around the hill and gingerly approached.
Lefever recognized Satt Morgan. He flung a greeting to him from the saddle.

Satt answered in kind, but he eyed the horsemen with reserve when they drew up, and he seemed
to Lefever altogether less responsive than usual. John sparred with him for information, and
Satterlee gave back words without any.

"Can't tell us anything about de Spain, eh?" echoed Lefever at length. "All right, Satt, we'll
find somebody that can. Is there a bridge over to Duke's on this trail?"

Satt's nose wrinkled into his normal smile. "There is a bridge--" The report of three shots
fired in the distance, seemingly from the mouth of the Gap, interrupted him. He paused in his
utterance. There were no further shots, and he resumed: "There is a bridge that way, yes, but
it was washed out last night. They're blockaded. Duke and Gale are over there. They're pretty
sore on your man de Spain. You'd better keep away from 'em this morning unless you're looking
for trouble."

Lefever, having all needed information from Scott's signal, raised his hand quickly. "Not at
all," he exclaimed, leaning forward to emphasize his words and adding the full orbit of his
eye to his sincerity of manner. "Not at all, Satt. This is all friendly, all friendly. But,"
he coughed slightly, as if in apology, "if Henry shouldn't turn up all right, we'll--ahem--be
back."

None of his companions needed to be told how to get prudently away. At a nod from Lefever Tommie
Meggeson, Elpaso, and Wickwire wheeled their horses, rode rapidly back to the turn near the
hill and, facing about, halted, with their rifles across their arms. Lefever and Kennedy followed
leisurely, and the party withdrew leaving Satterlee, unmoved, in the sunny doorway. Once out
of sight, Lefever led the way rapidly down the Gap to the rendezvous.

Of all the confused impressions that crowded Nan's memory after the wild night on Music Mountain,
the most vivid was that of a noticeably light-stepping and not ungraceful fat man advancing,
hat in hand, to greet her as she stood with de Spain, weary and bedraggled in the aspen grove.

A smile flamed from her eyes when, turning at once, he rebuked de Spain with dignity for not
introducing him to Nan, and while de Spain made apologies Lefever introduced himself.

"And is this," murmured Nan, looking at him quizzically, "really Mr. John Lefever whom I've
heard so many stories about?"

She was conscious of his pleasing eyes and even teeth as he smiled again. "If they have come
from Mr. de Spain--I warn you," said John, "take them with all reserve."

"But they haven't all come from Mr. de Spain."

"If they come from any of my friends, discredit them in advance. You could believe what my
enemies say," he ran on; then added ingenuously, "if I had any enemies!" To de Spain he talked
very little. It seemed to take but few words to exchange the news. Lefever asked gingerly about
the fight. He made no mention whatever of the crimson pool in the road near Sassoon's hut.

CHAPTER XXIX

PUPPETS OF FATE

The house in the Gap that had sheltered Nan for many years seemed never so empty as the night
she left it with de Spain. In spite of his vacillation, her uncle was deeply attached to her.
She made his home for him. He had never quite understood it before, but the realization came
only too soon after he had lost her. And his resentment against Gale as the cause of her leaving
deepened with every hour that he sat next day with his stubborn pipe before the fire. Duke
had acceded with much reluctance to the undertaking that was to force her into a marriage.
Gale had only partly convinced him that once taken, the step would save her from de Spain and
end their domestic troubles. The failure of the scheme left Duke sullen, and his nephew sore,
with humiliation.

In spite of the alarms and excitement of the night, of Gale's determination that de Spain should
never leave the Gap with Nan, and of the rousing of every man within it to cut off their escape,
Duke stubbornly refused to pursue the man he so hated or even to leave the house in any effort
to balk his escape. But Gale, and Sassoon who had even keener reason for hating de Spain, left
Duke to sulk as he would, and set about getting the enemy without any help from the head of
the house. In spite of the caution with which de Spain had covered his movements, and the flood
and darkness of the night, Sassoon by a mere chance had got wind through one of his men of
de Spain's appearance at Duke Morgan's, and had begun to plan, before Nan and de Spain had
got out of the house, how to trap him.

Duke heard from Pardaloe, during the night and the early morning, every report with indifference.
He only sat and smoked, hour after hour, in silence. But after it became known that de Spain
had, beyond doubt, made good his escape, and had Nan with him, the old man's sullenness turned
into rage, and when Gale, rankling with defeat, stormed in to see him in the morning, he caught
the full force of Duke's wrath. The younger man taken aback by the outbreak and in drink himself,
returned his abuse without hesitation or restraint. Pardaloe came between them before harm
was done, but the two men parted with the anger of their quarrel deepened.

When Nan rode with de Spain into Sleepy Cat that morning, Lefever had already told their story
to Jeffries over the telephone from Calabasas, and Mrs. Jeffries had thrown open her house
to receive Nan. Weary from exposure, confusion, and hunger, Nan was only too grateful for a refuge.

On the evening of the second day de Spain was invited to join the family at supper. In the
evening the Jeffrieses went down-town.

De Spain was talking with Nan in the living-room when the telephone-bell rang in the library.

De Spain took the call, and a man's voice answered his salutation. The speaker asked for Mr.
de Spain and seemed particular to make sure of his identity.

"This," repeated de Spain more than once, and somewhat testily, "is Henry de Spain speaking."

"I'd like to have a little talk with you, Mr. de Spain."

"Go ahead."

"I don't mean over the telephone. Could you make it convenient to come down-town somewhere,
say to Tenison's, any time this evening?"

The thought of a possible ambuscade deterred the listener less than the thought of leaving
Nan, from whom he was unwilling to separate himself for a moment. Likewise, the possibility
of an attempt to kidnap her in his absence was not overlooked. On the other hand, if the message
came from Duke and bore some suggestion of a compromise in the situation, de Spain was unwilling
to lose it. With these considerations turning in his mind, he answered the man brusquely: "Who
are you?"

The vein of sharpness in the question met with no deviation from the slow, even tone of the
voice at the other end of the wire. "I am not in position to give you my name," came the answer,
"at least, not over the wire."

A vague impression suddenly crossed de Spain's mind that somewhere he had heard the voice before.
"I can't come down-town to-night," returned de Spain abruptly. "If you'll come to my office
to-morrow morning at nine, I'll talk with you."

A pause preceded the answer. "It wouldn't hardly do for me to come to your office in daylight.
But if it would, I couldn't do it to-morrow, because I shan't be in town in the morning."

"Where are you talking from now?"

"I'm at Tenison's place."

"Hang you," said de Spain instantly, "I know you now." But he said the words to himself, not aloud.

"Do you suppose I could come up to where you are to-night for a few minutes' talk?" continued
the man coolly.

"Not unless you have something very important."

"What I have is more important to you than to me."

De Spain took an instant to decide. "All right," he said impatiently; "come along. Only--"
he paused to let the word sink in, "--if this is a game you're springing----"

"I'm springing no game," returned the man evenly.

"You're liable to be one of the men hurt."

"That's fair enough."

"Come along, then."

"Mr. Jeffries's place is west of the court-house?"

"Directly west. Now, I'll tell you just how to get here. Do you hear?"

"I'm listening."

"Leave Main Street at Rancherio Street. Follow Rancherio north four blocks, turn west into
Grant Avenue. Mr. Jeffries's house is on the corner."

"I'll find it."

"Don't come any other way. If you do, you won't see me."

"I'm not afraid of you, Mr. de Spain, and I'll come as you say. There's only one thing I should
like to ask. It would be as much as my life is worth to be seen talking to you. And there are
other good reasons why I shouldn't like to have it known I had talked to you. Would you mind
putting out the lights before I come up--I mean, in the front of the house and in the room
where we talk?"

"Not in the least. I mean--I am always willing to take a chance against any other man's. But
I warn you, come prepared to take care of yourself."

"If you will do as I ask, no harm will come to any one."

De Spain heard the receiver hung up at the other end of the wire. He signalled the operator
hastily, called for his office, asked for Lefever, and, failing to get him, got hold of Bob
Scott. To him he explained rapidly what had occurred, and what he wanted. "Get up to Grant
and Rancherio, Bob, as quick as the Lord will let you. Come by the back streets. There's a
high mulberry hedge at the southwest corner you can get behind. This chap may have been talking
for somebody else. Anyway, look the man over when he passes under the arc-light. If it is Sassoon
or Gale Morgan, come into Jeffries's house by the rear door. Wait in the kitchen for my call
from the living-room, or a shot. I'll arrange for your getting in."

Leaving the telephone, de Spain rejoined Nan in the living-room. He told her briefly of the
expected visit and explained, laughingly, that his caller had asked to have the lights out
and to see him alone.

Nan, standing close to him, her own hand on his shoulder and her curling hair against his scarred
cheek, asked questions about the incident because he seemed to be holding something back. She
professed to be satisfied when he requested her to go up to her room and explained it was probably
one of the men coming to tell about some petty thieving on the line or of a strike brewing
among the drivers. He made so little of the incident that Nan walked up the stairs on de Spain's
arm reassured. When he kissed her at her room door and turned down the stairs again, she leaned
in the half-light over the banister, waving one hand at him and murmuring the last caution:
"Be careful, Henry, won't you?"

"Dearie, I'm always careful."

"'Cause you're all I've got now," she whispered.

"You're all I've got, Nan, girl."

"I haven't got any home--or anything--just you. Don't go to the door yourself. Leave the front
door open. Stand behind the end of the piano till you are awfully sure who it is."

"What a head, Nan!"

De Spain cut off the lights, threw open the front door, and in the darkness sat down on the
piano stool. A heavy step on the porch, a little while later, was followed by a knock on the
open door.

"Come in!" called de Spain roughly. The bulk of a large man filled and obscured for an instant
the opening, then the visitor stepped carefully over the threshold. "What do you want?" asked
de Spain without changing his tone. He awaited with keenness the sound of the answer.

"Is Henry de Spain here?"

The voice was not familiar to de Spain's ear. He told himself the man was unknown to him. "I
am Henry de Spain," he returned without hesitation. "What do you want?"

The visitor's deliberation was reflected in his measured speaking. "I am from Thief River,"
he began, and his reverberating voice was low and distinct. "I left there some time ago to
do some work in Morgan's Gap. I guess you know, full as well as I do, that the general office
at Medicine Bend has its own investigators, aside from the division men. I was sent in to Morgan's
Gap some time ago to find out who burned the Calabasas barn."

"Railroad man, eh?"

"For about six years."

"And you report to----?"

"Kennedy."

De Spain paused in spite of his resolve to push the questions. While he listened a fresh conviction
had flashed across his mind. "You called me up on the telephone one night last week," he said
suddenly.

The answer came without evasion. "I did."

"I chased you across the river?"

"You did."

"You gave me a message from Nan Morgan that she never gave you."

"I did. I thought she needed you right off. She didn't know me as I rightly am. I knew what
was going on. I rode into town that evening and rode out again. It was not my business, and
I couldn't let it interfere with the business I'm paid to look after. That's the reason I dodged
you."

"There is a chair at the left of the door; sit down. What's your name?"

The man feeling around slowly, deposited his angular bulk with care upon the little chair.
"My name"--in the tenseness of the dark the words seemed to carry added mystery--"is Pardaloe."

"Where from?"

"My home is southwest of the Superstition Mountains."

"You've got a brother--Joe Pardaloe?" suggested de Spain to trap him.

"No, I've got no brother. I am just plain Jim Pardaloe."

"Say what you have got to say, Jim."

"The only job I could get in the Gap was with old Duke Morgan--I've been working for him, off
and on, and spending the rest of my time with Gale and Dave Sassoon. There were three men in
the barn-burning. Dave Sassoon put up the job."

"Where is Dave Sassoon now?"

"Dead."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean what I say."

Both men were silent for a moment.

"Yesterday morning's fight?" asked de Spain reluctantly.

"Yes, sir."

"How did he happen to catch us on El Capitan?"

"He saw a fire on Music Mountain and watched the lower end of the Gap all night. Sassoon was
a wide-awake man."

"Well, I'm sorry, Pardaloe," continued de Spain after a moment. "Nobody could call it my fault.
It was either he or I--or the life of a woman who never harmed a hair of his head, and a woman
I'm bound to protect. He was running when he was hit. If he had got to cover again there was
nothing to stop him from picking both of us off. I shot low--most of the lead must have gone
into the ground."

"He was hit in the head."

De Spain was silent.

"It was a soft-nose bullet," continued Pardaloe.

Again there was a pause. "I'll tell you about that, too, Pardaloe," de Spain went on collectedly.
"I lost my rifle before that man opened fire on us. Nan happened to have her rifle with her--if
she hadn't, he'd 've dropped one or both of us off El Capitan. We were pinned against the wall
like a couple of targets. If there were soft-nose bullets in her rifle it's because she uses
them on game--bobcats and mountain-lions. I never thought of it till this minute. That is it."

"What I came up to tell you has to do with Dave Sassoon. From what happened to-day in the Gap
I thought you ought to know it now. Gale and Duke quarrelled yesterday over the way things
turned out; they were pretty bitter. This afternoon Gale took it up again with his uncle, and
it ended in Duke's driving him clean out of the Gap."

"Where has he gone?"

"Nobody knows yet. Ed Wickwire told me once that your father was shot from ambush a good many
years ago. It was north of Medicine Bend, on a ranch near the Peace River; that you never found
out who killed him, and that one reason why you came up into this country was to keep an eye
out for a clew."

"What about it?" asked de Spain, his tone hardening.

"I was riding home one night about a month ago from Calabasas with Sassoon. He'd been drinking.
I let him do the talking. He began cussing you out, and talked pretty hard about what you'd
done, and what he'd done, and what he was going to do--" Nothing, it seemed, would hurry the
story. "Finally, Sassoon says: 'That hound don't know yet who got his dad. It was Duke Morgan;
that's who got him. I was with Duke when he turned the trick. We rode down to de Spain's ranch
one night to look up a rustler.' That," concluded Pardaloe, "was all Sassoon would say."

He stopped. He seemed to wait. There was no word of answer, none of comment from the man sitting
near him. But, for one, at least, who heard the passionless, monotonous recital of a murder
of the long ago, there followed a silence as relentless as fate, a silence shrouded in the
mystery of the darkness and striking despair into two hearts--a silence more fearful than any word.

Pardaloe shuffled his feet. He coughed, but he evoked no response. "I thought you was entitled
to know," he said finally, "now that Sassoon will never talk any more."

De Spain moistened his lips. When he spoke his voice was cracked and harsh, as if with what
he had heard he had suddenly grown old.

"You are right, Pardaloe. I thank you. I--when I--in the morning. Pardaloe, for the present,
go back to the Gap. I will talk with Wickwire--to-morrow."

"Good night, Mr. de Spain."

"Good night, Pardaloe."

Bending forward, limp, in his chair, supporting his head vacantly on his hands, trying to think
and fearing to think, de Spain heard Pardaloe's measured tread on the descending steps, and
listened mechanically to the retreating echoes of his footsteps down the shaded street. Minute
after minute passed. De Spain made no move. A step so light that it could only have been the
step of a delicate girlhood, a step free as the footfall of youth, poised as the tread of womanhood
and beauty, came down the stairs. Slight as she was, and silent as he was, she walked straight
to him in the darkness, and, sinking between his feet, wound her hands through his two arms.
"I heard everything, Henry," she murmured, looking up. An involuntary start of protest was
his only response. "I was afraid of a plot against you. I stayed at the head of the stairs.
Henry, I told you long ago some dreadful thing would come between us--something not our fault.
And now it comes to dash our cup of happiness when it is filling. Something told me, Henry,
it would come to-night--some bad news, some horror laid up against us out of a past that neither
you nor I are to blame for. In all my sorrow I am sorriest, Henry, for you. Why did I ever
cross your path to make you unhappy when blood lay between your people and mine? My wretched
uncle! I never dreamed he had murder on his soul--and of all others, that murder! I knew he
did wrong--I knew some of his associates were criminals. But he has been a father and mother
to me since I could creep--I never knew any father or mother."

She stopped, hoping perhaps he would say some little word, that he would even pat her head,
or press her hand, but he sat like one stunned. "If it could have been anything but this!"
she pleaded, low and sorrowfully. "Oh, why did you not listen to me before we were engulfed!
My dear Henry! You who've given me all the happiness I have ever had--that the blood of my
own should come against you and yours!" The emotion she struggled with, and fought back with
all the strength of her nature, rose in a resistless tide that swept her on, in the face of
his ominous silence, to despair. She clasped her hands in silent misery, losing hope with every
moment of his stoniness that she could move him to restraint or pity toward her wretched foster-father.
She recalled the merciless words he had spoken on the mountain when he told her of his father's
death. Her tortured imagination pictured the horror of the sequel, in which the son of the
murdered man should meet him who had taken his father's life. The fate of it, the hopelessness
of escape from its awful consequence, overcame her. Her breath, no longer controlled, came
brokenly, and her voice trembled.

"You have been very kind to me, Henry--you've been the only man I've ever known that always,
everywhere, thought of me first. I told you I didn't deserve it, I wasn't worthy of it----"

His hands slipped silently over her hands. He gathered her close into his arms, and his tears
fell on her upturned face.

CHAPTER XXX

HOPE FORLORN

There were hours in that night that each had reason long to remember; a night that seemed to
bring them, in spite of their devotion, to the end of their dream. They parted late, each trying
to soften the blow as it fell on the other, each professing a courage which, in the face of
the revelation, neither could clearly feel.

In the morning Jeffries brought down to de Spain, who had spent a sleepless night at the office,
a letter from Nan.

De Spain opened it with acute misgivings. Hardly able to believe his eyes, he slowly read:

  DEAREST:

  A wild hope has come to me. Perhaps we don't know the truth of
  this terrible story as it really is. Suppose we should be
  condemning poor Uncle Duke without having the real facts? Sassoon
  was a wretch, Henry, if ever one lived--a curse to every one. What
  purpose he could serve by repeating this story, which he must have
  kept very secret till now, I don't know; but there was some
  reason. I must know the whole truth--I feel that I, alone, can
  get hold of it, and that you would approve what I am doing if you
  were here with me in this little room, where I am writing at
  daybreak, to show you my heart.

  Long before you get this I shall be speeding toward the Gap. I am
  going to Uncle Duke to get from him the exact truth. Uncle Duke is
  breaking--has broken--and now that the very worst has come, and we
  must face it, he will tell me what I ask. Whether I can get him to
  repeat this to you, to come to you, to throw himself on your pity,
  my dearest one, I don't know. But it is for this I am going to
  try, and for this I beg of your love--the love of which I have
  been so proud!--that you will let me stay with him until I at
  least learn everything and can bring the whole story to you. If I
  can bring him, I will.

  And I shall be safe with him--perfectly safe. Gale has been driven
  away. Pardaloe, I know I can trust, and he will be under the roof
  with me. Please, do not try to come to me. It might ruin
  everything. Only forgive me, and I shall be back with what I hope
  for, or what I fear, very, very soon. Not till then can I bear to
  look into your eyes. You have a better right than anyone in the
  world to know the whole truth, cost what it may. Be patient for
  only a little while with

                                                                NAN.

It was Jeffries who said, afterward, he hoped never again to be the bearer of a letter such
as that. Never until he had read and grasped the contents of Nan's note had Jeffries seen the
bundle of resource and nerve and sinew, that men called Henry de Spain, go to pieces. For once,
trouble overbore him.

When he was able to speak he told Jeffries everything. "It is my fault," he said hopelessly.
"I was so crippled, so stunned, she must have thought--I see it now--that I was making ready
to ride out by daybreak and shoot Duke down on sight. It's the price a man must pay, Jeffries,
for the ability to defend himself against this bunch of hold-up men and assassins. Because
they can't get me, I'm a 'gunman'----"

"No, you're not a 'gunman.'"

"A gunman and nothing else. That's what everybody, friends and enemies, reckon me--a gunman.
You put me here to clean out this Calabasas gang, not because of my good looks, but because
I've been, so far, a fraction of a second quicker on a trigger than these double-damned crooks.

"I don't get any fun out of standing for ten minutes at a time with a sixty-pound safety-valve
dragging on my heart, watching a man's eye to see whether he is going to pull a gun on me and
knock me down with a slug before I can pull one and knock him down. I don't care for that kind
of thing, Jeff. Hell's delight! I'd rather have a little ranch with a little patch of alfalfa--enough
alfalfa to feed a little bunch of cattle, a hundred miles from every living soul. What I would
like to do is to own a piece of land under a ten-cent ditch, and watch the wheat sprout out
of the desert."

Jeffries, from behind his pipe, regarded de Spain's random talk calmly.

"I do feel hard over my father's death," he went on moodily. "Who wouldn't? If God meant me
to forget it, why did he put this mark on my face, Jeff? I did talk pretty strong to Nan about
it on Music Mountain. She accused me then of being a gunman. It made me hot to be set down
for a gunman by her. I guess I did give it back to her too strong. That's the trouble--my bark
is worse than my bite--I'm always putting things too strong. I didn't know when I was talking
to her then that Sandusky and Logan were dead. Of course, she thought I was a butcher. But
how could I help it?

"I did feel, for a long time, I'd like to kill with my own hands the man that murdered my father,
Jeff. My mother must have realized that her babe, if a man-child, was doomed to a life of bloodshed.
I've been trying to think most of the night what she'd want me to do now. I don't know what
I can do, or can't do, when I set eyes on that old scoundrel. He's got to tell the truth--that's
all I say now. If he lies, after what he made my mother suffer, he ought to die like a dog--no
matter who he is.

"I don't want to break Nan's heart. What can I do? Hanging him here in Sleepy Cat, if I could
do it, wouldn't help her feelings a whole lot. If I could see the fellow--" de Spain's hands,
spread before him on the table, drew up tight, "if I could get my fingers on his throat, for
a minute, and talk to him, tell him what I think of him--I might know what I would want to
do--Nan might be there to see and judge between us. I'd be almost willing to leave things to
her to settle herself. I only want what's right. But," the oath that recorded his closing threat
was collected and pitiless, "if any harm comes to that girl now from this wild trip back among
those wolves--God pity the men that put it over. I'll wipe out the whole accursed clan, if
I have to swing for it right here in Sleepy Cat!"

John Lefever, Jeffries, Scott in turn took him in hand to hold him during three days, to restrain
the fury of his resentment, and keep him from riding to the Gap in a temper that each of them
knew would mean only a tragedy worse than what had gone before. Mountain-men who happened in
and out of Sleepy Cat during those three days remember how it seemed for that time as if the
attention of every man and woman in the whole country was fixed on the new situation that balked
de Spain. They knew only that Nan had gone back to her people, not why she had gone back; but
the air was eager with surmise and rumor as to what had happened, and in this complete overturning
of all de Spain's hopes, what would happen before the story ended.

Even three days of tactful representation and patient admonition from cool-headed counsellors
did not accomplish all they hoped for in de Spain's attitude. His rage subsided, but only to
be followed by a settled gloom that they knew might burst into uncontrollable anger at any moment.

A report reached McAlpin that Gale Morgan was making ready to return to Music Mountain with
the remnant of Sandusky's gang, to make a demand on Duke for certain property and partnership
adjustments. This rumor he telephoned to Jeffries. Before talking with de Spain, Jeffries went
over the information with Lefever. The two agreed it was right, in the circumstances, that
de Spain should be nearer than Sleepy Cat to Nan. Moreover, the period of waiting she had enjoined
on him was almost complete.

Without giving de Spain the story fully, the two men talking before him let the discussion
drift toward a proposal on his part to go down to Calabasas, where he could more easily keep
track of any movement to or from the Gap, and this they approved. De Spain, already chafing
under a hardly endured restraint, lost no time in starting for Calabasas, directing Lefever
to follow next day.

It added nothing to his peace of mind in the morning to learn definitely from McAlpin that
Gale Morgan, within twenty-four hours, had really disappeared from Calabasas. No word of any
kind had come from Music Mountain for days. No one at Calabasas was aware even that Nan had
gone into the Gap again. Bob Scott was at Thief River. De Spain telephoned to him to come up
on the early stage, and turned his attention toward getting information from Music Mountain
without violating Nan's injunction not to frustrate her most delicate effort with her uncle.

As a possible scout to look into her present situation and report on it, McAlpin could point
only to Bull Page. Bull was a ready instrument, but his present value as an assistant had become
a matter of doubt, since practically every man in the Gap had threatened within the week to
blow his head off--though Bull himself felt no scruples against making an attempt to reach
Music Mountain and get back again. It was proposed by the canny McAlpin to send him in with
a team and light wagon, ostensibly to bring out his trunk, which, if it had not been fed to
the horses, was still in Duke's barn. As soon as a rig could be got up Page started out.

It was late November. A far, clear air drew the snow-capped ranges sharply down to the eye
of the desert--as if the speckless sky, lighted by the radiant sun, were but a monster glass
rigged to trick the credulous retina. De Spain, in the saddle in front of the barn, his broad
hat brim set on the impassive level of the Western horseman, his lips seeming to compress his
thoughts, his lines over his forearm, and his hands half-slipped into the pockets of his snug
leather coat, watched Page with his light wagon and horses drive away.

Idling around the neighborhood of the barns in the saddle, de Spain saw him gradually recede
into the long desert perspective, the perspective which almost alone enabled the watcher to
realize as he curtained his eyes behind their long, steady lashes from the blazing sun, that
it was a good bit of a way to the foot of the great outpost of the Superstition Range.

De Spain's restlessness prevented his remaining quietly anywhere for long. As the morning advanced
he cantered out on the Music Mountain trail, thinking of and wishing for a sight of Nan. The
deadly shock of Pardaloe's story had been dulled by days and nights of pain. His deep-rooted
love and his loneliness had quieted his impulse for vengeance and overborne him with a profound
sadness. He realized how different his feelings were now from what they had been when she knelt
before him in the darkened room and, not daring to plead for mercy for her uncle, had asked
him only for the pity for herself that he had seemed so slow to give. Something reproached
him now for his coldness at the moment that he should have thought of her suffering before his own.

The crystal brightness of the day brought no elation to his thoughts. His attention fixed on
nothing that did not revert to Nan and his hunger to see her again. If he regarded the majestic
mountain before him, it was only to recall the day she had fed him at its foot, long before
she loved him--he thought of that truth now--when he lay dying on it. If the black reaches
of the lava beds came within view, it was only to remind him that, among those desolate rocks,
this simple, blue-eyed girl, frail in his eyes as a cobweb despite her graceful strength, had
intrusted all her life and happiness to him, given her fresh lips to his, endured without complaint
the headstrong ardor of his caresses and, by the pretty mockery of her averted eyes, provoked
his love to new adventure.

Memory seemed that morning as keen as the fickle air--so sharply did it bring back to him the
overwhelming pictures of their happiness together. And out of his acute loneliness rose vague
questionings and misgivings. He said to himself in bitter self-reproach that she would not
have gone if he had been to her all he ought to have been in the crisis of that night. If harm
should befall her now! How the thought clutched and dragged at his heart. Forebodings tortured
him, and in the penumbra of his thoughts seemed to leave something he could not shake off--a
vague, haunting fear, as if of some impending tragedy that should wreck their future.

It was while riding in this way that his eyes, reading mechanically the wagon trail he was
aimlessly following--for no reason other than that it brought him, though forbidden, a little
closer to her--arrested his attention. He checked his horse. Something, the trail told him,
had happened. Page had stopped his horses. Page had met two men on horseback coming from the
Gap. After a parley--for the horses had tramped around long enough for one--the wagon had turned
completely from the trail and struck out across the desert, north; the two horsemen, or one
with a led horse, had started back for the Gap.

All of this de Spain gathered without moving his horse outside a circle of thirty feet. What
did it mean? Page might have fallen in with cronies from the Gap, abandoned his job, and started
for Sleepy Cat, but this was unlikely. He might have encountered enemies, been pointedly advised
to keep away from the Gap, and pretended to start for Sleepy Cat, to avoid trouble with them.
Deeming the second the more probable conclusion, de Spain, absorbed in his speculations, continued
toward the Gap to see whether he could not pick up the trail of Page's rig farther on.

Within a mile a further surprise awaited him. The two horsemen, who had headed for the Gap
after stopping Page, had left the trail, turned to the south, down a small draw, which would
screen them from sight, and set out across the desert.

No trail and no habitation lay in the direction they had taken--and it seemed clearer to de
Spain that the second horse was a led horse. There was a story in the incident, but his interest
lay in following Page's movements, and he spurred swiftly forward to see whether his messenger
had resumed the Gap trail and gone on with his mission. He followed this quest almost to the
mountains, without recovering any trace of Page's rig. He halted. It was certain now that Page
had not gone into the Gap.

Perplexed and annoyed, de Spain, from the high ground on which he sat his horse, cast his eyes
far out over the desert. The brilliant sunshine flooded it as far as the eye could reach. He
scanned the vast space without detecting a sign of life anywhere, though none better than he
knew that any abundance of it might be there. But his gaze caught something of interest on
the farthest northern horizon, and on this his scrutiny rested a long time. A soft brown curtain
rose just above the earth line against the blue sky. Toward the east it died away and toward
the west it was cut off by the Superstition peaks.

De Spain, without giving the weather signs much thought, recognized their import, but his mind
was filled with his own anxieties and he rode smartly back toward Calabasas, because he was
not at ease over the puzzles in the trail. When he reached the depression where the horsemen
had, without any apparent reason, turned south, he halted. Should he follow them or turn north
to follow Page's wanderings? If Page had been scared away from the Gap, for a time, he probably
had no information that de Spain wanted, and de Spain knew his cunning and persistence well
enough to be confident he would be back on the Gap road, and within the cover of the mountains,
before a storm should overtake him. On the north the brown curtain had risen fast and already
enveloped the farthest peaks of the range. Letting his horse stretch its neck, he hesitated
a moment longer trying to decide whether to follow the men to the south or the wagon to the
north. A woman might have done better. But no good angel was there to guide his decision, and
in another moment he was riding rapidly to the south with the even, brown, misty cloud behind
him rolling higher into the northern sky.

CHAPTER XXXI

DE SPAIN RIDES ALONE

He had ridden the trail but a short time when it led him in a wide angle backward and around
toward Calabasas, and he found, presently, that the men he was riding after were apparently
heading for the stage barns. In the north the rising curtain had darkened. Toward Sleepy Cat
the landscape was already obliterated. In the south the sun shone, but the air had grown suddenly
cold, and in the sharp drop de Spain realized what was coming. His first thought was of the
southern stages, which must be warned, and as he galloped up to the big barn, with this thought
in mind he saw, standing in the doorway, Bull Page.

De Spain regarded him with astonishment. "How did you get here?" was his sharp question.

Page grinned. "Got what I was after, and c'm' back sooner'n I expected. Half-way over to the
Gap, I met Duke and the young gal on horseback, headed for Calabasas. They pulled up. I pulled
up. Old Duke looked kind o' ga'nted, and it seemed like Nan was in a considerable hurry to
get to Sleepy Cat with him, and he couldn't stand the saddle. Anyway, they was heading for
Calabasas to get a rig from McAlpin. I knowed McAlpin would never give old Duke a rig, not
if he was a-dyin' in the saddle."

"They've got your rig!" cried de Spain.

"The gal asked me if I'd mind accommodatin' 'em," explained Bull deprecatingly, "to save time."

"They headed north!" exclaimed de Spain. The light from the fast-changing sky fell copper-colored
across his horse and figure. McAlpin, followed by a hostler, appeared at the barn door.

Bull nodded to de Spain. "Said they wanted to get there quick. She fig'erd on savin' a few
miles by strikin' the hill trail in. So I takes their horses and lets on I was headin' in for
the Gap. When they got out of sight, I turned 'round----"

Even as he spoke, the swift-rolling curtain of mist overhead blotted the sun out of the sky.

De Spain sprang from his saddle with a ringing order to McAlpin. "Get up a fresh saddle-horse!"

"A horse!" cried the startled barn boss, whirling on the hostler. "The strongest legs in the
stable, and don't lose a second! Lady Jane; up with her!" he yelled, bellowing his orders into
the echoing barn with his hands to his mouth. "Up with her for Mr. de Spain in a second! Marmon!
Becker! Lanzon! What in hell are you all doing?" he roared, rushing back with a fusillade of
oaths. "Look alive, everybody!"

"Coming!" yelled one voice after another from the depths of the distant stalls.

De Spain ran into the office. Page caught his horse, stripped the rifle from its holster, and
hurriedly began uncinching. Hostlers running through the barn called shrilly back and forth,
and de Spain springing up the stairs to his room provided what he wanted for his hurried flight.
When he dashed down with coats on his arm the hoofs of Lady Jane were clattering down the long
gangway. A stable-boy slid from her back on one side as Bull Page threw the saddle across her
from the other; hostlers caught at the cinches, while others hurriedly rubbed the legs of the
quivering mare. De Spain, his hand on McAlpin's shoulder, was giving his parting injunctions,
and the barn boss, head cocked down, and eyes cast furtively on the scattering snowflakes outside,
was listening with an attention that recorded indelibly every uttered syllable.

Once only, he interrupted: "Henry, you're ridin' out into this thing alone--don't do it."

"I can't help it," snapped de Spain impatiently,

"It's a man killer."

"I can't help it."

"Bob Scott, if he w's here, 'ud never let you do it. I'll ride wi' ye myself, Henry. I worked
for your father----"

"You're too old a man, Jim----"

"Henry----"

"Don't talk to me! Do as I tell you!" thundered de Spain.

McAlpin bowed his head.

"Ready!" yelled Page, buckling the rifle holster in place. Still talking, and with McAlpin
glued to his elbow, de Spain vaulted into the saddle, caught the lines from Bull's hands, and
steadied the Lady as she sidestepped nervously--McAlpin following close and dodging the dancing
hoofs as he looked earnestly up to catch the last word. De Spain touched the horse with the
lines. She leaped through the doorway and he raised a backward hand to those behind. Running
outside the door, they yelled a chorus of cries after the swift-moving horseman and, clustered
in an excited group, watched the Lady with a dozen great strides round the Calabasas trail
and disappear with her rider into the whirling snow.

She fell at once into an easy reaching step, and de Spain, busy with his reflections, hardly
gave thought to what she was doing, and little more to what was going on about him.

No moving figure reflects the impassive more than a horseman of the mountains, on a long ride.
Though never so swift-borne, the man, looking neither to the right nor to the left, moving
evenly and statue-like against the sky, a part of the wiry beast under him, presents the very
picture of indifference to the world around him. The great swift wind spreading over the desert
emptied on it snow-laden puffs that whirled and wrapped a cloud of flakes about horse and rider
in the symbol of a shroud. De Spain gave no heed to these skirmishing eddies, but he knew what
was behind them, and for the wind, he only wished it might keep the snow in the air till he
caught sight of Nan.

The even reach of the horse brought him to the point where Nan had changed to the stage wagon.
Without a break in her long stride, Lady Jane took the hint of her swerving rider, put her
nose into the wind, and headed north. De Spain, alive to the difficulties of his venture, set
his hat lower and bent forward to follow the wagon along the sand. With the first of the white
flurries passed, he found himself in a snowless pocket, as it were, of the advancing storm.
He hoped for nothing from the prospect ahead; but every moment of respite from the blinding
whirl was a gain, and with his eyes close on the trail that had carried Nan into danger, he
urged the Lady on.

When the snow again closed down about him he calculated from the roughness of the country that
he should be within a mile of the road that Nan was trying to reach, from the Gap to Sleepy
Cat. But the broken ground straight ahead would prevent her from driving directly to it. He
knew she must hold to the right, and her curving track, now becoming difficult to trail, confirmed
his conclusion.

A fresh drive of the wind buffeted him as he turned directly north. Only at intervals could
he see any trace of the wagon wheels. The driving snow compelled him more than once to dismount
and search for the trail. Each time he lost it the effort to regain it was more prolonged.
At times he was compelled to ride the desert in wide circles to find the tracks, and this cost
time when minutes might mean life. But as long as he could he clung to the struggle to track
her exactly. He saw almost where the storm had struck the two wayfarers. Neither, he knew,
was insensible to its dangers. What amazed him was that a man like Duke Morgan should be out
in it. He found a spot where they had halted and, with a start that checked the beating of
his heart, his eyes fell on her footprint not yet obliterated, beside the wagon track.

The sight of it was an electric shock. Throwing himself from his horse, he knelt over it in
the storm, oblivious for an instant of everything but that this tracery meant her presence,
where he now bent, hardly half an hour before. He swung, after a moment's keen scrutiny, into
his saddle, with fresh resolve. Pressed by the rising fury of the wind, the wayfarers had become
from this point, de Spain saw too plainly, hardly more than fugitives. Good ground to the left,
where their hope of safety lay, had been overlooked. Their tracks wandered on the open desert
like those who, losing courage, lose their course in the confusion and fear of the impending peril.

And with this increasing uncertainty in their direction vanished de Spain's last hopes of tracking
them. The wind swept the desert now as a hurricane sweeps the open sea, snatching the fallen
snow from the face of the earth as the sea-gale, flattening the face of the waters, rips the
foam from the frantic waves to drive it in wild, scudding fragments across them.

De Spain, urging his horse forward, unbuckled his rifle holster, threw away the scabbard, and
holding the weapon up in one hand, fired shot after shot at measured intervals to attract the
attention of the two he sought. He exhausted his rifle ammunition without eliciting any answer.
The wind drove with a roar against which even a rifle report could hardly carry, and the snow
swept down the Sinks in a mad blast. Flakes torn by the fury of the gale were stiffened by
the bitter wind into powdered ice that stung horse and rider. Casting away the useless carbine,
and pressing his horse to the limit of her strength and endurance, the unyielding pursuer rode
in great coiling circles into the storm, to cut in, if possible, ahead of its victims, firing
shot upon shot from his revolver, and putting his ear intently against the wind for the faint
hope of an answer.

Suddenly the Lady stumbled and, as he cruelly reined her, slid helpless and scrambling along
the face of a flat rock. De Spain, leaping from her back, steadied her trembling and looked
underfoot. The mare had struck the rock of the upper lava bed. Drawing his revolver, he fired
signal shots from where he stood. It could not be far, he knew, from the junction of the two
great desert trails--the Calabasas road and the Gap road. He felt sure Nan could not have got
much north of this, for he had ridden in desperation to get abreast of or beyond her, and if
she were south, where, he asked, in the name of God, could she be?

He climbed again into the saddle--the cold was gripping his limbs--and, watching the rocky
landmarks narrowly, tried to circle the dead waste of the half-buried flow. With chilled, awkward
fingers he filled the revolver again and rode on, discharging it every minute, and listening--hoping
against hope for an answer. It was when he had almost completed, as well as he could compute,
the wide circuit he had set out on, that a faint shot answered his continuing signals.

With the sound of that shot and those that followed it his courage all came back. But he had
yet to trace through the confusion of the wind and the blinding snow the direction of the answering
reports.

Hither and thither he rode, this way and that, testing out the location of the slowly repeated
shots, and signalling at intervals in return. Slowly and doggedly he kept on, shooting, listening,
wheeling, and advancing until, as he raised his revolver to fire it again, a cry close at hand
came out of the storm. It was a woman's voice borne on the wind. Riding swiftly to the left,
a horse's outline revealed itself at moments in the driving snow ahead.

De Spain cried out, and from behind the furious curtain heard his name, loudly called. He pushed
his stumbling horse on. The dim outline of a second horse, the background of a wagon, a storm-beaten
man--all this passed his eyes unheeded. They were bent on a girlish figure running toward him
as he slid stiffly from the saddle. The next instant Nan was in his arms.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE TRUTH

With the desperation of a joy born of despair she laid her burning cheek hysterically against
his cheek. She rained kisses on his ice-crusted brows and snow-beaten eyes. Her arms held him
rigidly. He could not move nor speak till she would let him. Transformed, this mountain girl
who gave herself so shyly, forgot everything. Her words crowded on his ears. She repeated his
name in an ecstasy of welcome, drew down his lips, laughed, rejoiced, knew no shamefacedness
and no restraint--she was one freed from the stroke of a descending knife. A moment before
she had faced death alone; it was still death she faced--she realized this--but it was death,
at least, together, and her joy and tears rose from her heart in one stream.

De Spain comforted her, quieted her, cut away one of the coats from his horse, slipped it over
her shoulders, incased her in the heavy fur, and turned his eyes to Duke.

The old man's set, square face surrendered nothing of implacability to the dangers confronting
him. De Spain looked for none of that. He had known the Morgan record too long, and faced the
Morgan men too often, to fancy they would flinch at the drum-beat of death.

The two men, in the deadly, driving snow, eyed each other. Out of the old man's deep-set eyes
burned the resistance of a hundred storms faced before. But he was caught now like a wolf in
a trap, and he knew he had little to hope for, little to fear. As de Spain regarded him, something
like pity may have mixed with his hatred. The old outlaw was thinly clad. His open throat was
beaten with snow and, standing beside the wagon, he held the team reins in a bare hand. De
Spain cut the other coat from his saddle and held it out. Duke pretended not to see and, when
not longer equal to keeping up the pretense, shook his head.

"Take it," said de Spain curtly.

"No."

"Take it, I say. You and I will settle our affairs when we get Nan out of this," he insisted.

"De Spain!" Duke's voice, as was its wont, cracked like a pistol, "I can say all I've got to
say to you right here."

"No."

"Yes," cried the old man.

"Listen, Henry," pleaded Nan, seeking shelter from the furious blast within his arm, "just
for a moment, listen!"

"Not now, I tell you!" cried de Spain.

"He was coming, Henry, all the way--and he is sick--just to say it to you. Let him say it here,
now."

"Go on!" cried de Spain roughly. "Say it."

"I'm not afraid of you, de Spain!" shouted the old man, his neck bared to the flying ice. "Don't
think it! You're a better man than I am, better than I ever was--don't think I don't know that.
But I'm not afraid of e'er a man I faced, de Spain; they'll tell you that when I'm dead. All
the trouble that ever come 'tween you and me come by an accident--come before you was born,
and come through Dave Sassoon, and he's held it over me ever since you come up into this country.
I was a young fellow. Sassoon worked for my father. The cattle and sheep war was on, north
of Medicine Bend. The Peace River sheepmen raided our place--your father was with them. He
never did us no harm, but my brother, Bay Morgan, was shot in that raid by a man name of Jennings.
My brother was fifteen years old, de Spain. I started out to get the man that shot him. Sassoon
trailed him to the Bar M, the old de Spain ranch, working for your father."

The words fell fast and in a fury. They came as if they had been choked back till they strangled.
"Sassoon took me over there. Toward night we got in sight of the ranch-house. We saw a man
down at the corral. 'That's Jennings,' Sassoon says. I never laid eyes on him before--I never
laid eyes on your father before. Both of us fired. Next day we heard your father was killed,
and Jennings had left the country. Sassoon or I, one of us, killed your father, de Spain. If
it was I, I did it never knowing who he was, never meaning to touch him. I was after the man
that killed my brother. Sassoon didn't care a damn which it was, never did, then nor never.
But he held it over me to make trouble sometime 'twixt you and me. I was a young fellow. I
thought I was revenging my brother. And if your father was killed by a patched bullet, his
blood is not on me, de Spain, and never was. Sassoon always shot a patched bullet. I never
shot one in my life. And I'd never told you this of my own self. Nan said it was the whole
truth from me to you, or her life. She's as much mine as she is yours. I nursed her. I took
care of her when there weren't no other living soul to do it. She got me and herself out into
this, this morning. I'd never been caught like this if I'd had my way. I told her 'fore we'd
been out an hour we'd never see the end of it. She said she'd rather die in it than you'd think
she quit you. I told her I'd go on with her and do as she said--that's why we're here, and
that's the whole truth, so help me God!

"I ain't afraid of you, de Spain. I'll give you whatever you think's coming to you with a rifle
or a gun any time, anywhere--you're a better man than I am or ever was, I know that--and that
ought to satisfy you. Or, I'll stand my trial, if you say so, and tell the truth."

The ice-laden wind, as de Spain stood still, swept past the little group with a sinister roar,
insensible alike to its emotions and its deadly peril. Within the shelter of his arm he felt
the yielding form of the indomitable girl who, by the power of love, had wrung from the outlaw
his reluctant story--the story of the murder that had stained with its red strands the relations
of each of their lives to both the others. He felt against his heart the faint trembling of
her frail body. So, when a boy, he had held in his hand a fluttering bird and felt the whirring
beat of its frightened heart against his strong, cruel fingers.

A sudden aversion to more bloodshed, a sickening of vengeance, swept over him as her heart
mutely beat for mercy against his heart. She had done more than any man could do. Now her.
In the breathless embrace that drew her closer she read her answer from him. She looked up
into his eyes and waited. "There's more than what's between you and me, Duke, facing us now,"
said de Spain sternly, when he turned. "We've got to get Nan out of this--even if we don't
get out ourselves. Where do you figure we are?" he cried.

"I figure we're two miles north of the lava beds, de Spain," shouted Morgan.

De Spain shook his head in dissent. "Then where are we?" demanded the older man rudely.

"I ought not to say, against you. But if I've got to guess, I say two miles east. Either way,
we must try for Sleepy Cat. Is your team all right?"

"Team is all right. We tore a wheel near off getting out of the lava. The wagon's done for."

De Spain threw the fur coat at him. "Put it on," he said. "We'll look at the wheel."

They tried together to wrench it into shape, but worked without avail. In the end they lashed
it, put Nan on the Lady, and walked behind while the team pushed into the pitiless wind. Morgan
wanted to cut the wagon away and take to the horses, but de Spain said, not till they found
a trail or the stage road.

So much snow had fallen that in spite of the blizzard, driving with an unrelenting fury, the
drifts were deepening, packing, and making all effort increasingly difficult. It was well-nigh
impossible to head the horses into the storm, and de Spain looked with ever more anxious eyes
at Nan. After half an hour's superhuman struggle to regain a trail that should restore their
bearings, they halted, and de Spain, riding up to the wagon, spoke to Morgan, who was driving:
"How long is this going to last?"

"All day and all night." Nan leaned closely over to hear the curt question and answer. Neither
man spoke again for a moment.

"We'll have to have help," said de Spain after a pause.

"Help?" echoed Morgan scornfully. "Where's help coming from?"

De Spain's answer was not hurried. "One of us must go after it." Nan looked at him intently.

Duke set his hard jaw against the hurtling stream of ice that showered on the forlorn party.
"I'll go for it," he snapped.

"No," returned de Spain. "Better for me to go."

"Go together," said Nan.

De Spain shook his head. Duke Morgan, too, said that only one should go; the other must stay.
De Spain, while the storm rattled and shook at the two men, told why he should go himself.
"It's not claiming you are not entitled to say who should go, Duke," he said evenly. "Nor that
our men, anywhere you reach, wouldn't give you the same attention they would me. And it isn't
saying that you're not the better man for the job--you've travelled the Sinks longer than I
have. But between you and me, Duke, it's twenty-eight years against fifty. I ought to hold
out a while the longer, that's all. Let's work farther to the east."

Quartering against the mad hurricane, they drove and rode on until the team could hardly be
urged to further effort against the infuriated elements--de Spain riding at intervals as far
to the right and the left as he dared in vain quest of a landmark. When he halted beside the
wagon for the last time he was a mass of snow and ice; horse and rider were frozen to each
other. He got down to the ground with a visible effort, and in the singing wind told Duke his
plan and purpose.

He had chosen on the open desert a hollow falling somewhat abruptly from the north, and beneath
its shoulder, while Morgan loosened the horses, he scooped and kicked away a mass of snow.
The wagon had been drawn just above the point of refuge, and the two men, with the aid of the
wind, dumped it over sidewise, making of the body a windbreak over the hollow, a sort of roof,
around which the snow, driven by the gale, would heap itself in hard waves. Within this shelter
the men stowed Nan. The horses were driven down behind it, and from one of them de Spain took
the collar, the tugs, and the whiffletree. He stuck a hitching-strap in his pocket, and while
Morgan steadied the Lady's head, de Spain buckled the collar on her, doubled the tugs around
the whiffletree, and fastened the roll at her side in front of the saddle.

Nan came out and stood beside him as he worked. When he had finished she put her hand on his
sleeve. He held her close, Duke listening, to tell her what he meant to try to do. Each knew
it well might be the last moment together. "One thing and another have kept us from marriage
vows, Nan," said de Spain, beckoning at length to Morgan to step closer that he might clearly
hear. "Nothing must keep us longer. Will you marry me?"

She looked up into his eyes. "I've promised you I would. I will promise every time you ask
me. I never could have but one answer to that, Henry--it must always be yes!"

"Then take me, Henry," he said slowly, "here and now for your wedded husband. Will you do this,
Nan?"

Still looking into his eyes, she answered without surprise or fear: "Henry, I do take you."

"And I, Henry, take you, Nan, here and now for my wedded wife, for better for worse, for richer
for poorer, from this day forward, until death us do part."

They sealed their pact with a silent embrace. De Spain turned to Duke. "You are the witness
of this marriage, Duke. You will see, if an accident happens, that anything, everything I have--some
personal property--my father's old ranch north of Medicine Bend--some little money in bank
at Sleepy Cat--goes to my wife, Nan Morgan de Spain. Will you see to it?"

"I will. And if it comes to me--you, de Spain, will see to it that what stock I have in the
Gap goes to my niece, Nan, your wife."

She looked from one to the other of the two men. "All that I have," she said in turn, "the
lands in the Gap, everywhere around Music Mountain, go to you two equally together, or whichever
survives. And if you both live, and I do not, remember my last message--bury the past in my grave."

Duke Morgan tested the cinches of the saddle on the Lady once more, unloosed the tugs once
more from the horse's shoulder, examined each buckle of the collar and every inch of the two
strips of leather, the reinforced fastenings on the whiffletree, rolled all up again, strapped
it, and stood by the head till de Spain swung up into the saddle. He bent down once to whisper
a last word of cheer to his wife and, without looking back, headed the Lady into the storm.

CHAPTER XXXIII

GAMBLING WITH DEATH

Beyond giving his horse a safe headway from the shelter, de Spain made little effort to guide
her. He had chosen the Lady, not because she was fresher, for she was not, but because he believed
she possessed of the three horses the clearest instinct to bring her through the fight for
the lives that were at stake. He did not deceive himself with the idea he could do anything
to help the beast find a way to succor; that instinct rested wholly in the Lady's head, not
in his. He only knew that if she could not get back to help, he could not. His own part in
the effort was quite outside any aid to the Lady--it was no more than to reach alive whatever
aid she could find, that he might direct it to where Nan and her companion would endure a few
hours longer the fury of the storm.

His own struggle for life, he realized, was with the wind--the roaring wind that hurled its
broadsides of frozen snow in monstrous waves across the maddened sky, challenging every living
thing. It drove icy knives into his face and ears, paralyzed in its swift grasp his muscles
and sinews, fought the stout flow of blood through his veins, and searched his very heart to
still it.

Encouraging the Lady with kind words, and caressing her in her groping efforts as she turned
head and tail from the blinding sheets of snow and ice, de Spain let her drift, hoping she
might bring them through, what he confessed in his heart to be, the narrowest of chances.

He bent low in his saddle under the unending blasts. He buffeted his legs and arms to fight
off the fatal cold. He slipped more than once from his seat, and with a hand on the pommel
tramped beside the horse to revive his failing circulation; there would come a time, he realized,
when he could no longer climb up again, but he staved that issue off to the last possible moment
of endurance, because the Lady made better time when he was on her back. When the struggle
to remount had been repeated until nature could no longer by any staggering effort be made
to respond to his will, until his legs were no longer a part of his benumbed being--until below
his hips he had no body answerable to his commands, but only two insensible masses of lead
that anchored him to the ground--he still forced the frozen feet to carry him, in a feeble,
monstrous gait beside the Lady, while he dragged with his hands on the saddle for her patient aid.

One by one every thought, as if congealed in their brain cells, deserted his mind--save the
thought that he must not freeze to death. More than once he had hoped the insensate fury of
the blizzard might abate. The Lady had long since ceased to try to face it--like a stripped
vessel before a hurricane, she was drifting under it. De Spain realized that his helpless legs
would not carry him farther. His hands, freezing to the pommel, no longer supported him. They
finally slipped from it and he fell prostrate in the snow beside his horse. When he would cry
out to her his frozen lips could mumble no words. It was the fight no longer of a man against
nature, but only of an indomitable soul against a cruel, hateful death. He struggled to his
feet only to fall again more heavily. He pulled himself up this time by the stirrup-strap,
got his hands and arms up to the pommel, and clung to it for a few paces more. But he fell
at last, and could no longer rise from the ground. The storm swept unceasingly on.

The Lady, checked by the lines wrapped on his arm, stopped. De Spain lay a moment, then backed
her up a step, pulled her head down by the bridle, clasped his wooden arms around her neck,
spoke to her and, lifting her head, the mare dragged him to his feet. Clumsily and helplessly
he loosened the tugs and the whiffletree, beat his hands together with idiotic effort, hooked
the middle point of the whiffletree into the elbow of his left arm, brought the forearm and
hand up flat against his shoulder, and with the hitching-strap lashed his forearm and upper
arm tightly together around the whiffletree.

He drew the tugs stiffly over the Lady's back, unloosed the cinches of the saddle, pushed it
off the horse and, sinking into the snow behind her, struck with his free arm at her feet.
Relieved of the saddle, the Lady once more started, dragging slowly behind her through the
snow a still breathing human being. Less than an hour before it had been a man. It was hardly
more now, as the Lady plodded on, than an insensate log. But not even death could part it again
from the horse to which de Spain, alive, had fastened it.

The fearful pain from the tortured arm, torn at times almost from its socket, the gradual snapping
of straining ligaments, the constant rupture of capillaries and veins sustained his consciousness
for a while. Then the torturing pain abated, the rough dragging shattered the bruised body
less. It was as if the Lady and the storm together were making easier for the slowly dying
man his last trail across the desert. He still struggled to keep alive, by sheer will-power,
flickering sparks of consciousness, and to do so concentrated every thought on Nan. It was
a poignant happiness to summon her picture to his fainting senses; he knew he should hold to
life as long as he could think of her. Love, stronger than death, welled in his heart. The
bitter cold and the merciless wind were kinder as he called her image from out of the storm.
She seemed to speak--to lift him in her arms. Ahead, distant mountains rose, white-peaked.
The sun shone. He rode with her through green fields, and a great peace rested on his weary senses.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Lady Jane, pushing on and on, enlightened by that instinct before which the reason of man is
weak and pitiful, seeing, as it were, through the impenetrable curtain of the storm where refuge
lay, herself a slow-moving crust of frozen snow, dragged to her journey's end--to the tight-shut
doors of the Calabasas barn--her unconscious burden, and stood before them patiently waiting
until some one should open for her. It was one of the heartbreaks of a tragic day that no one
ever knew just when the Lady reached the door or how long she and her unconscious master waited
in the storm for admission. A startled exclamation from John Lefever, who had periodically
and anxiously left the red-hot stove in the office to walk moodily to the window, brought the
men tumbling over one another as he ran from his companions to throw open the outer door and
pull the drooping horse into the barn.

It was the Indian, Scott, who, reading first of all the men everything in the dread story,
sprang forward with a stifled exclamation, as the horse dragged in the snow-covered log, whipped
a knife from his pocket, cut the incumbered arm and white hand free from the whiffletree and,
carrying the stiffened body into the office, began with insane haste to cut away the clothing.

Lefever, perceiving it was de Spain thus drawn to their feet, shouted, while he tore from the
blade of Scott's knife the frozen garments, the orders for the snow, the heated water, the
warm blankets, the alcohol and brandy, and, stripped to his waist, chafed the marble feet.
The Indian, better than a staff of doctors, used the cunning of a sorcerer to revive the spark
of inanimate life not yet extinguished by the storm. A fearful interval of suspense followed
the silence into which the work settled, a silence broken only by the footsteps of men running
to and from the couch over which Scott, Lefever, and McAlpin, half-naked, worked in mad concert.

De Spain opened his eyes to wander from one to the other of the faces. He half rose up, struggling
in a frenzy with the hands that restrained him. While his companions pleaded to quiet him,
he fought them until, restored to its seat of reason, his mind reasserted itself and, lying
exhausted, he told them in his exquisite torture of whom he had left, and what must be done
to find and bring them in.

While the relief wagons, equipped with straining teams and flanked by veteran horsemen, were
dashing out of the barn, he lapsed into unconsciousness. But he had been able to hold Scott's
hand long enough to tell him he must find Nan and bring her in, or never come back.

It was Scott who found her. In their gropings through the blizzard the three had wandered nearer
Calabasas than any one of them dreamed. And on the open desert, far south and east of the upper
lava beds, it was Scott's horse that put a foot through the bottom of the overturned wagon
box. The suspected mound of snow, with the buried horses scrambling to their feet, rose upright
at the crash. Duke crouched, half-conscious, under the rude shelter. Lying where he had placed
her, snugly between the horses, Scott found Nan. He spoke to her when she opened her staring
eyes, picked her up in his arms, called to his companions for the covered wagon, and began
to restore her, without a moment of delay, to life. He even promised if she would drink the
hateful draft he put to her lips and let him cut away her shoes and leggings and the big coat
frozen on her, that in less than an hour she should see Henry de Spain alive and well.

CHAPTER XXXIV

AT SLEEPY CAT

Nothing in nature, not even the storm itself, is so cruel as the beauty of the after calm.
In the radiance of the sunshine next day de Spain, delirious and muttering, was taken to the
hospital at Sleepy Cat. In an adjoining room lay Nan, moaning reproaches at those who were
torturing her reluctantly back to life. Day and night the doctors worked over the three. The
town, the division, the stagemen, and the mountain-men watched the outcome of the struggle.
From as far as Medicine Bend railroad surgeons came to aid in the fight.

De Spain cost the most acute anxiety. The crux of the battle, after the three lives were held
safe, centred on the effort to save de Spain's arm--the one he had chosen to lose, if he must
lose one, when he strapped it to the whiffletree. The day the surgeons agreed that if his life
were to be saved the arm must come off at the shoulder a gloom fell on the community.

In a lifetime of years there can come to the greater part of us but a few days, a few hours,
sometimes no more than a single moment, to show of what stuff we are really made. Such a crisis
came that day to Nan. Already she had been wheeled more than once into de Spain's room, to
sit where she could help to woo him back to life. The chief surgeon, in the morning, told Nan
of the decision. In her hospital bed she rose bolt upright. "No!" she declared solemnly. "You
shan't take his arm off!"

The surgeon met her rebellion tactfully. But he told Nan, at last, that de Spain must lose
either his arm or his life. "No," she repeated without hesitation and without blanching, "you
shan't take off his arm. He shan't lose his life."

The blood surged into her cheeks--better blood and redder than the doctors had been able to
bring there--such blood as de Spain alone could call into them. Nan, with her nurse's help,
dressed, joined de Spain, and talked long and earnestly. The doctors, too, laid the situation
before him. When they asked him for his decision, he nodded toward Nan. "She will tell you,
gentlemen, what we'll do."

And Nan did tell them what the two who had most at stake in the decision would do. Any man
could have done as much as that. But Nan did more. She set herself out to save the arm and
patient both, and, lest the doctors should change their tactics and move together on the arm
surreptitiously, Nan stayed night and day with de Spain, until he was able to make such active
use of either arm as to convince her that he, and not the surgeons, would soon need the most
watching.

Afterward when Nan, in some doubt, asked the chaplain whether she was married or single, he
obligingly offered to ratify and confirm the desert ceremony.

This affair was the occasion for an extraordinary round-up at Sleepy Cat. Two long-hostile
elements--the stage and railroad men and the Calabasas-Morgan Gap contingent of mountain-men,
for once at least, fraternized. Warrants were pigeonholed, suspicion suspended, side-arms neglected
in their scabbards. The fighting men of both camps, in the presence of a ceremony that united
de Spain and Nan Morgan, could not but feel a generous elation. Each party considered that
it was contributing to the festivity in the bride and the groom the very best each could boast,
and no false note disturbed the harmony of the notable day.

Gale Morgan, having given up the fight, had left the country. Satterlee Morgan danced till
all the platforms in town gave way. John Lefever attended the groom, and Duke Morgan sternly,
but without compunction, gave the bride. From Medicine Bend, Farrell Kennedy brought a notable
company of de Spain's early associates for the event. It included Whispering Smith, whose visit
to Sleepy Cat on this occasion was the first in years; George McCloud, who had come all the
way from Omaha to join his early comrades in arms; Wickwire, who had lost none of his taciturn
bluntness--and so many train-despatchers that the service on the division was crippled for
the entire day.

A great company of self-appointed retainers gathered together from over all the country, rode
behind the gayly decorated bridal-coach in procession from the church to Jeffries's house,
where the feasts had been prepared. During the reception a modest man, dragged from an obscure
corner among the guests, was made to take his place next Lefever on the receiving-line. It
was Bob Scott, and he looked most uncomfortable until he found a chance to slip unobserved
back to the side of the room where the distinguished Medicine Bend contingent, together with
McAlpin, Pardaloe, Elpaso, and Bull Page, slightly unsteady, but extremely serious for the
grave occasion, appeared vastly uncomfortable together.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The railroad has not yet been built across the Sinks to Thief River. But only those who lived
in Sleepy Cat in its really wild stage days are entitled to call themselves early settlers,
or to tell stories more or less authentic about what then happened. The greater number of the
Old Guard of that day, as cankering peace gradually reasserted itself along the Sinks, turned
from the stage coach to the railroad coach; some of them may yet be met on the trains in the
mountain country. Wherever you happen to find such a one, he will tell you of the days when
Superintendent de Spain of the Western Division wore a gun in the mountains and used it, when
necessary, on his wife's relations.

Whether it was this stern sense of discipline or not that endeared him to the men, these old-timers
are, to a man, very loyal to the young couple who united in their marriage the two hostile
mountain elements. One in especial, a white-haired old man, described by the fanciful as a
retired outlaw, living yet on Nan's ranch in the Gap, always spends his time in town at the
de Spain home, where he takes great interest in an active little boy, Morgan de Spain, who
waits for his Uncle Duke's coming, and digs into his pockets for rattles captured along the
trail from recent huge rattlesnakes. When his uncle happens to kill a big one--one with twelve
or thirteen rings and a button--Morgan uses it to scare his younger sister, Nan. And Duke,
secretly rejoicing at his bravado, but scolding sharply, helps him adjust the old ammunition-belt
dragged from the attic, and cuts fresh gashes in it to make it fit the childish waist. His
mother doesn't like to see her son in warlike equipment, ambushing little Nan in the way Bob
Scott says the Indians used to do. She threatens periodically to burn the belt up and throw
the old rifles out of the house. But when she sees her uncle and her husband watching the boy
and laughing at the parade together, she relents. It is only children, after all, that keep
the world young. There is a wedding midway in the book and a double wedding at the close.