In the affair at Kolb's Farm, on June 22, Hascall's division of the Twenty-third Corps was
abreast of and connecting with Hooker's right, while his advance-guard was many yards in advance
of the line, when the enemy's attack at the Kolb House began.  The first attack fell upon this
advance-guard, the 14th Kentucky Volunteers, which gallantly held its ground until twice ordered
to retire and join the main line.  In the meantime Hascall's line had been formed in prolongation
of Hooker's and covered with the usual hastily constructed parapets, and three brigades of
Cox's division had been ordered forward to protect Hascall's right.  The attack was repulsed
with ease, and there was no ground for apprehension about the safety of my immediate flank,
much less of Hooker's, after the arrival of Cox's division, which occurred before the hour
of Hooker's signal- despatch to Sherman expressing anxiety about our extreme right. On the
following morning we reoccupied the ground held by the 14th Kentucky at the opening of the
engagement, and not only did I offer to show General Sherman that the dead of my "advance division
were lying farther out than any of Hooker's," but he actually rode with me over the ground,
and saw the dead of the 14th Kentucky lying in advance of Hooker's picket-line.

                                          SHERMAN'S DISPLEASURE WITH HOOKER

My impression is that Hooker, in his signal-despatch of 5:30 P. M., saying, "We have repulsed
two heavy attacks, and feel confident, our only apprehension being for our extreme right flank.
Three entire corps are in front of us,"( 1) meant by "our extreme right flank" not his own
right, but mine--that is, the extreme right of the entire line; for at the time of that despatch
nearly my whole corps was strongly posted on Hooker's right, and was well "refused," forming
a strong right flank.  This General Hooker well knew.  But the Sandtown Road leading to our
rear, on which Cox's division had been posted until Johnston's attack made it necessary to
close him up on Hascall, was now less strongly guarded.  I believe that General Hooker had
conceived the idea, as indicated by his despatch to Sherman, that Johnston had drawn his main
force from around Kenesaw, and was about to strike our extreme right. I recollect that I was
all the time on the watch for such a blow, but relied upon my cavalry to give me some warning
of it, and made it a rule to be always as well prepared for it as I could.  Being habitually
on the flank, I had got used to that sort of thing, while Hooker, having been habitually in
the center with his flanks well protected, was more nervous about having them exposed.  At
all events, I did not regard the situation at the Kolb House as anything unusual, and did not
think of mentioning it in such a light to General Sherman; while General Hooker, with a sort
of paternal feeling of seniority, may have thought it his duty to take care of the whole right
wing of the army, and to advise the general- in-chief of the supposed danger to our "extreme
right flank."

There occurred on that occasion one of those little and seemingly trifling incidents which
never escape the memory, and are always a source of pride, especially to those who are comparatively
young. When Sherman read Hooker's despatch, which he interpreted as meaning that my corps was
not in position to protect Hooker's flank, he said in substance, if not literally, and with
great emphasis: "That is not true.  I sent Schofield an order to be there.  I know he received
the order, for his initials, in his own hand, are on the envelop which the orderly brought
back, and I know he is there. Hooker's statement is false."  What a delight it was to execute
the orders of a chief who manifested such confidence!

                                 HOOKER'S DESPATCH EVIDENTLY MISINTERPRETED

