"Well, I must say I like to see it," said Brandon. "I quite enjoy seeing Emily stealing out
with Edgar in the gloaming, and meeting him in the hall when she hears his knock, and getting
into corners with him. Harriett, who has some notion what the thing means, has patience with
it, but Constance, who is younger, despises all this philandering. I said to her the other
day, when she was expressing her disgust at these proceedings, 'Ah, Constance! three years
or so, and you will be doing just the same. I have another nephew coming out next month, and
a fine fellow he is said to be. You'll be just as foolish.' 'You'll see me boiled first!' said
Constance, with a vehemence which startled her aunt Harriett, and brought down a serious rebuke,
though she herself thought the young people rather ridiculous, to use Peggy's phrase. But I
know very well that one great reason for Emily's fancy for Edgar is her wish to call Elsie
and myself aunt and uncle. I think it likely that that weighed with you, Mrs. Lowrie."

"None of your nonsense, Mr. Brandon," said Peggy. "Who would care to be connected with an old
woman like me?" and yet she was pleased with Brandon's remark, notwithstanding.

"Well, joking apart, I think it is really a great thing for a girl to marry into a family where
they are prepared to love her, and to put the most charitable construction on all she does
and all she does not do," said Brandon.

"But, Mr. Hogarth," said Mr. Dempster, "you promised at this family party to tell me the whole
story of which I have got some separate threads. You recollect that we had some curious revelations
one evening at a seance at my house in London. Shortly after I returned to Adelaide, I met
in a wayside inn an old woman whom I took to be your mother, who entered into conversation
with me; but as the spiritual directions had been to have nothing to do with her, I did not
inquire sufficiently to get much information from her. Some time after that, I heard of your
giving up your property in Scotland, sailing for Australia, marrying your cousin, and settling
here; but what connection these three things have with each other, I never knew. Will you be
good enough to explain?"

"The spirit was in the wrong on that occasion in two important particulars. The letter I had
in my pocket was from Mrs. Peck, but she was not my mother; Mr. Hogarth was not my father,"
said Francis.

"Not your mother! not your father!" said Mr. Dempster; "can you prove that?"

"No; but I am quite convinced of it," said Francis.

"I would believe the spirits always, if I had no positive proof to the contrary," said Mr.
Dempster.

"Mrs. Peck confessed to Brandon that as her own child died suddenly she had picked up another,
with the view of imposing on Mr. Hogarth and getting a handsome allowance from him; but when
he saw me he preferred keeping me out of her hands, and educated me, but never loved me," said
Francis.

"I would not believe that woman on her oath," said Mr. Dempster; "and I know her motive. She
wanted to get something out of your cousins, and for that purpose invented this confession.
That would never shake my belief in the spirits. Look at the way in which those names were
spelled out--you were convinced of the truth of it at the time."

"My dear sir," said Francis, "I certainly heard and saw a great many things which I could not
explain. They seemed to echo my own thoughts marvellously correctly, but whenever I was at
fault, they, too, were misinformed. Elsie had been suspicious beforehand that I was not Henry
Hogarth's son. Mrs. Peck's confession was consistent and probable; she stuck to it as being
true, to her dying day. I went to see her on her death-bed, and she declared that, as she hoped
for forgiveness, I was not her child or Mr. Hogarth's; so that, though I never got any clue
to my real parents--for she did not know my name, and the advertisements which I put into American
papers were never answered--thirty-five years being a lapse of time in which such matters cannot
be traced--I am morally certain that I am not Jane's cousin, and consequently that the spirit
was wrong. It might be mesmerism, or extraordinary quickness of sight; for though I tried to
pass over the letters which spelled out the names, a very practised eye might observe an infinitesimal
hesitation over the particular letter;--but of one thing I am certain, that if Henry Hogarth
had been there in the spirit, he would have been able to tell me both that he was not my father,
and also whose son I really was, which information I wished to obtain."

"But did not the spirit say you were to have happiness after a time," said Mr. Dempster, triumphantly,
"and have you not got it?"

"Certainly I have; and if it had any hand in bringing it about I am very grateful to it," said
Francis, looking at his wife with pride and pleasure; "but I think we owe our happiness very
much to each other. The will, which was as unjust and absurd a one as could have been made,
indirectly did us service. I am quite sure that but for the singular relations in which I was
placed I never could have known Jane, and could not have loved her."

"If Elsie had been left 20,000 pounds I never should have dared to have looked up to her,"
said Brandon; "and what a loss that would have been to her, not speak of myself! It is a hundred
chances to one against two heiresses getting two such good husbands, and keeping all such capital
friends as we do."

"It is quite true," said Jane; "my uncle's will has resulted in more happiness than even he
could have hoped for."

"Though he certainly would not have contemplated with equanimity the passing of Cross Hall
into the hands of Mrs. William Dalzell, whose trustees invested her fortune in it when it was
sold by the benevolent societies to whom I relinquished the inheritance," said Francis. "Dalzell
does not make so bad a landlord as we expected, particularly as he has not much in his power.
The proceeds of the sale are doing good to the sick and afflicted, while we are quite as comfortable
without it."

"I cannot think enough of the Providence that has made good come out of evil," said Jane. "But
with regard to the rappings, Mr. Dempster, the oracular sentences that all would be well in
the end, and that Francis should be happy after a time, were of the vaguest description, while
on positive matters they were decidedly misinformed."

"It might have been a lying or mocking spirit," said Mr. Dempster; "my faith in the truth of
these manifestations is not to be shaken by what you say."

"I wonder if your spirits could tell us if Grant is in for ----, and his majority? The election
must have taken place, but no one in the room knows of it; that would be a crucial test, as
Jane calls it," said Brandon.

"In such a company of unbelievers," said Mr. Dempster, "we could not get up a seance, and what
is more, we have no medium."

"It is well that Grant goes out of his own district," said Brandon, "for he would not stand
a chance there; and now he is promising to those strangers anything and everything. With all
Grant's aristocratic feelings, and his wife's too, which are still stronger, their desire that
he should have a seat in the Assembly, now that McIntyre is in, seems to drag him into as low
depths as any one. I cannot see why they should be so anxious about it, unless it is that,
since they cannot afford to go home, they want to take as good a position here as any of their
neighbours. Grant's affairs will suffer if he has to be so much in Melbourne, and at best he
will make a very fourth-rate legislator."

"I think he is naturally 'indifferent honest,'" said Francis. "At least, he is disposed to
be honest, but canvassing is very different work here as well as in Britain."

"You should really get into our Assembly, Frank," said Brandon, "to give the natives here the
benefit of your experience. How great you would be on a point of order or a question of privilege!"

"I wish Francis had time to give to parliamentary duties," said Jane. "I live in hopes that
when Mr. ---- returns, he may try his fortune in the political world here. If representative
assemblies would limit themselves to what really concerns such bodies, it would not be so heavy
a tax upon people in business to give their time to the public; but they will meddle with things
that ought to be let alone, and endless floods of talk on such matters take up much valuable time."

"Then Mr. Hogarth's public spirit has not been gently smothered by a happy marriage and a fine
family of children? That is the modern view of the case," said Mr. Dempster. "Nothing great
is done by married men, unless they are unhappily mated."

"A most ignoble view of a wife's duties," said Jane.

"My wife would never smother any public spirit I may have," said Francis. "She had too much
to do with the birth of it, not to cherish it as fondly as any of her other babies; but I fear
that, till my friend Mr. Hare's scheme is carried, I could not get a majority in Victoria.
We want the reform very much here, and in all the colonies; and as yet, it has been failure,
failure, failure."

"And if such men as you do not get in, Frank, it will never be carried. Grant is stupid--thoroughly
stupid. I talked to him for four mortal hours on the subject, and made it plain to the meanest
capacity, that though we wanted a representation of minorities, the minority in the House would
faithfully represent the minority out of doors, and not be able to defeat the majorities, as
he was convinced it would do. I put it down in black and white--proved it with figures. Elsie
and I made fancy voting-papers, and I acted as returning officer, and showed the thing as clear
as day; but though he drank a bottle and a half of sherry during the process, he was just as
wise at the end as at the beginning. Now I don't call myself at all clever, but when Frank
explained the method of voting to me, I saw it all in a minute--and you, Tom--did not you,
too? but then you are rather a genius."

"It is as plain as a pikestaff," said Tom Lowrie.

"Walter thinks, because he has not read very much, that we must think him stupid," said Elsie,
"when he really has the quickest apprehension of all sorts of things."

"Dr. Grant will, perhaps, take up the meaning of Hare's scheme when the newspapers have advocated
it for years, and it has been familiar to all the people around him," said Francis, "or he
may vote for it without understanding it, when it becomes a popular cry."

"But to have to stir such a dish of skimmed milk to honourable action!" said Brandon. "Frank,
you really must stand for our district. I fancy McIntyre will go home by the time your partner
comes back, so we will have a vacancy. I will canvass for you, and so will Edgar. It would
be a credit to us to have a real British M.P. as our representative, and then you could push
your grand idea, as you intended to have done in England, before love routed ambition. As you
say, the result has hitherto been a failure in the colonies, but the contest should not be
abandoned."

"I hear that the movement makes slow progress in Britain," said Francis, "but still it makes
progress. It is too great a change there, and there are so many vested interests which consider
such a reform would interfere with their prescriptive rights. On the Continent it makes more
way; and, perhaps, as my French friends say, the discovery may be first carried into practice
there; but I had hopes of its success in the colonies. There is so much less to disturb here
that a change from exclusively local to general elections would not be difficult, if we could
only make the idea familiar. All we see in America, all we see in political matters here, only
show how much easier it is to reform before abuses go too far. I should very much like to try
your district, Brandon, and will be very glad of your services when the time comes; and so
I should feel that my work had been postponed, but not altogether given up."

"If we could carry the measure by a COUP DE MAIN in any one of the colonies, and bring it into
working, the whole world would be the better for it," said Brandon.

"There can be no carrying it by a COUP DE MAIN," said Francis. "Every inch of the ground must
be fought here, as in Britain, but the extent of ground is shorter."

"I have grown much more patriotic since I was married," said Brandon. "The place where you
have a real home--the birthplace of your children--and where you hope to see them grow up--becomes
very dear to you. And here are the youngsters!"

Little Maggie Brandon (so called in compliment to Peggy) seemed to know by intuition that there
was something for her in the pocket of the worthy woman, and went to her at once; and the others
distributed themselves according to their several likings.

"Well," said Peggy, "I've often thought to ask you before, Mrs. Hogarth, but how are you going
to educate your lassies? What are you going to do with them? and you favour lassies in both
families--two to one in each of them."

"Very much as we were educated ourselves," said Jane; "with more care taken for the cultivation
of their natural tastes, but the groundwork will be the same."

"That education has certainly turned out admirable wives," said Francis.

"Speak for yourself, Frank," said Brandon; "but my wife spoils me, and everybody in the house.
There is a sad want of vinegar in her composition. She cannot scold her servants--the mildest
approach to it that she ever makes is by saying, 'Mr. Brandon does not like such a thing,'
or that 'Mr. Brandon would be displeased if they do not attend to such another.' The idea of
making a bugbear of me is very ingenious, but I fear not very efficacious, for I know they
see through it. As for me, a penitent recollection of a conversation in an English railway
carriage has stopped her mouth for ever, and she never gives me a hard word, however I may
deserve it; and for the children, the less we say of them the better."

"But, Walter, I can keep my servants, and they really do very well; and the children are good
enough, and so are you; so there is no need to scold."

"That is where the dangerous part of this subtle flattery lies; it is so perfectly sincere.
But I suppose we get along pretty well, considering, as Mrs. Grant would say; and I really
think her household would be more comfortable if she took a leaf out of my wife's book. Her
servants will not stay three months with her, and she has three of the most spoiled, exacting
children I ever saw--far worse than their cousins at Wiriwilta were in their worst days. The
Phillipses had spirit, but the Grants have none, except perhaps the spirit of discontent. I
think we might do worse, Peggy, than educate our girls to resemble their mothers."

"But," said Jane, "we must make some provision for them also, if we can. I suppose that I could
have got on as well as you, Francis, if I had been a man."

"Yes, there is nothing I have done that you could not have done as well. I have as much perseverance
as you, but not so much energy. It is likely you would have made a better figure in the world
than I have done."

