<b>WHITMAN, SARAH DE ST. PRIX.</b> Bronze medal at Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 1893; gold
and bronze medals at Atlanta Exposition; diploma at Pan-American, Buffalo, 1901. Member of
the Society of American Artists, New York; Copley Society, Boston; Water-Color Club, Boston.
Born in Baltimore, Maryland. Pupil of William M. Hunt and Thomas Couture.

Mrs. Whitman has painted landscapes and portraits, and of recent years has been much occupied
with work in glass. Windows by her are in Memorial Hall, Cambridge; in the Episcopal Church
in Andover, Massachusetts, etc. An altar-piece by her is in All Saints' Church, Worcester.

Her portrait of Senator Bayard is in the State Department, Washington.

<b>WHITNEY, ANNE.</b> Born in Watertown, Massachusetts. Made her studies in Belmont and Boston,
and later in Paris and Rome.

Miss Whitney's sculptures are in many public places. A heroic size statue of Samuel Adams is
in Boston and Washington, in bronze and marble; Harriet Martineau is at Wellesley College,
in marble; the "Lotos-Eaters" is in Newton and Cambridge, in marble; "Lady Godiva," a life-size
statue in marble, is in a private collection in Milton; a statue of Leif Eriksen, in bronze,
is in Boston and Milwaukee; a bust of Professor Pickering, in marble, is in the Observatory,
Cambridge; a statue, "Roma," is in Albany, Wellesley, St. Louis, and Newton, in both marble
and bronze; Charles Sumner, in bronze of heroic size, is in Cambridge; a bust of President
Walker, bronze, is also in Cambridge; President Stearns, a bust in marble, is in Amherst; a
bust of Mrs. Alice Freeman Palmer is in Cambridge; a bust of Professor Palmer is on a bronze
medal; the Calla Fountain, in bronze, is in Franklin Park; and many other busts, medals, etc.,
in marble, bronze, and plaster, are in private collections.

<b>WILSON, MELVA BEATRICE.</b> Prize of one hundred dollars a year for three successive years
at Cincinnati Art Museum. Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1897. Born in Cincinnati, 1875. Pupil
of Cincinnati Art Museum, under Louis T. Rebisso and Thomas Noble; in Paris, of Rodin and Vincent
Norrottny.

By special invitation this sculptor has been an exhibitor at the National Sculpture Society,
New York. Her principal works are: "The Minute Man," in Corcoran Art Gallery, Washington, D.
C.; "The Volunteer," which was given by the State of New York as a military prize to a Vermont
Regiment; an equestrian statue of John F. Doyle, Jr.; "Bull and Bear" and the "Polo Player"
in bronze, owned by Tiffany & Co.; "Retribution" in a private collection in New York.

Miss Wilson has been accorded the largest commission given any woman sculptor for the decoration
of the buildings of the St. Louis Exposition. She is to design eight spandrils for Machinery
Hall, each one being twenty-eight by fifteen feet in size, with figures larger than life. The
design represents the wheelwright and boiler-making trades. Reclining nude figures, of colossal
size, bend toward the keystone of the arch, each holding a tool of a machinist. Interlaced
cog-wheels form the background.

<b>WIRTH, ANNA MARIE.</b> Member of the Munich Art Association. Born in St. Petersburg, 1846.
Studied in Vienna under Straschiripka--commonly known as Johann Canon--and in Paris, although
her year's work in the latter city seems to have left no trace upon her manner of painting.
The genre pictures, in which she excels, clearly show the influence of the old Dutch school.
A writer in "Moderne Kunst" says, in general, that she shows us real human beings under the
"précieuses ridicules," the languishing gallants and the pedant, and often succeeds in individualizing
all these with the sharpness of a Chodowiecki, though at times she is merely good-natured,
and therefore weak.

Sometimes, like Terborch, by her anecdotical treatment, she can set a whole romantic story
before you; again, in the manner of Gerard Dow, she gives you a penetrating glimpse into old
burgher life--work that is quite out of touch with the dilettantism that largely pervades modern
art.

The admirers of this unusual artist seek out her genre pictures in the exhibitions of to-day,
much as one turns to an idyl of Heinrich Voss, after a dose of the "storm and stress" poets.
Most of her works are in private galleries.

One of her best pictures will be seen at the St. Louis Exposition.

<b>WISINGER-FLORIAN, OLGA.</b> Bavarian Ludwig medal, 1891; medal at Chicago, 1893. Born in
Vienna, 1844. Pupil of Schäffer and Schwindler. She has an excellent reputation as a painter
of flowers. In the New Gallery, Munich, is one of her pictures of this sort; and at Munich,
1893, her flower pieces were especially praised in the reports of the exhibition.

She also paints landscapes, in which she gains power each year; her color grows finer and her
design or modelling stronger. At Vienna, 1890, it was said that her picture of the "Bauernhofe"
was, by its excellent color, a disadvantage to the pictures near it, and the shore motive in
"Abbazia" was full of artistic charm. At Vienna, 1893, she exhibited a cycle, "The Months,"
which bore witness to her admirable mastery of her art.

Among her works are some excellent Venetian subjects: "On the Rialto"; "Morning on the Shore";
and "In Venice."

<b>WOLFF, BETTY.</b> Honorable mention, Berlin, 1890. Member of the Association of Women Artists
and Friends of Art; also of the German Art Association. Born in Berlin, where she was a pupil
of Karl Stauffer-Bern; she also studied in Munich under Karl Marr.

Besides numerous portraits of children, in pastel, this artist has painted portraits in oils
of many well-known persons, among whom are Prof. H. Steinthal, Prof. Albrecht Weber, and General
von Zycklinski.

<b>WOLTERS, HENRIETTA</b>, family name Van Pee. Born in Amsterdam. 1692-1741. Pupil of her
father, and later made a special study of miniature under Christoffel le Blond. Her early work
consisted largely in copies from Van de Velde and Van Dyck. Her miniatures were so highly esteemed
that Peter the Great offered her a salary of six thousand florins as his court painter; and
Frederick William of Prussia invited her to his court, but nothing could tempt her away from
her home in Amsterdam. She received four hundred florins for a single miniature, a most unusual
price in her time.

<b>WOOD, CAROLINE S.</b> Daughter of Honorable Horatio D. Wood, of St. Louis. This sculptor
has made unusual advances in her art, to which she has seriously devoted herself less than
four years. She has studied in the Art School of Washington University, the Art Institute,
Chicago, and is now a student in the Art League, New York.

She has been commissioned by the State of Missouri to make a statue to represent "The Spirit
of the State of Missouri," for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. 

And though they were all looking towards her, they made no movement
to come to her help.

Perhaps they did not see what was happening to her. It did not matter. She would be there in a few moments.
One of the boys had found a tin can and was beating on it, and the sounds made her head feel
bad. She staggered on, looking on the ground because of the sun's
strong glare.

When she found that her feet had reached the patch of rutted ground that was around the gate,
she sobbed with thankfulness. She threw out her hands to the multitude of people who had suddenly
gathered there, and cried out imploringly, for if someone would only
take her to a place where she could lie down she would be all right
and she would keep her child.

But none of them came to her, and her deafened ears caught a sound of roaring. She could not
see who they were and what they were doing, for all things looked as if she saw them through flowing
water. But she knew the tall figure by the gatepost must be Mr. Goode, so she stumbled to him and raised
her head and tried to find his kind face.

But, like the boys, he wore a mask. Veins that she had never noticed before stood out red on
his forehead and his beard twitched, and the funny lines that darted about his eyes, which
had become small and winking, made his face a palimpsest in which
an affected disgust overlaid some deep enjoyment.

He did not seem to be looking at her; indeed, he averted his eyes from her, but thoughts about
her made him laugh and send out a jeering cry-- wordless like the call of the boys. She realised
that he and these people whom she could not see, but who must be
people who had known her all her life, had come out not to save but
to see her ill-treated and to rejoice.

She stood stock-still and groaned. Her head felt wet, and she put up her hand and found that a
stone had drawn blood behind her ear. The boys pressed close about her and beat the tin can in her
ears, and one stretched out a stick and touched her, which made Mr. Goode and the unseen enemies
laugh. When
left a widow, with three children to care for, she went to London, where she found a larger
field for her art than she had in the United States, where she had already made a good reputation
as a modeller in wax. By reason of this change of residence she has often been called an English
sculptress.

Although the imaginative and pictorial is not cultivated or even approved by Quakers, Patience
Lovell, while still a child, and before she had seen works of art, was content only when supplied
with dough, wax, or clay, from which she made figures of men and women. Very early these figures
became portraits of the people she knew best, and in the circle of her family and friends she
was considered a genius.

Very soon after Mrs. Wright reached London she was fully employed. She worked in wax, and her
full-length portrait of Lord Chatham was placed in Westminster Abbey, protected by a glass
case. This attracted much attention, and the London journals praised the artist. She made portraits
of the King and Queen, who, attracted by her brilliant conversation, admitted her to an intimacy
at Buckingham House, which could not then have been accorded to an untitled English woman.

Mrs. Wright made many portraits of distinguished people; but few, if any, of these can now
be seen, although it is said that some of them have been carefully preserved by the families
who possess them.

To Americans Mrs. Wright is interesting by reason of her patriotism, which amounted to a passion.
She is credited with having been an important source of information to the American leaders
in the time of the Revolution. In this she was frank and courageous, making no secret of her
views. She even ventured to reprove George III. for his attitude toward the Colonists, and
by this boldness lost the royal favor.

She corresponded with Franklin, in Paris, and new appointments, or other important movements
in the British army, were speedily known to him.

Washington, when he knew that Mrs. Wright wished to make a bust of him, replied in most flattering
terms that he should think himself happy to have his portrait made by her. Mrs. Wright very
much desired to make likenesses of those who signed the Treaty of Peace, and of those who had
taken a prominent part in making it. She wrote: "To shame the English king, I would go to any
trouble and expense, and add my mite to the honor due to Adams, Jefferson, and others."

Though so essentially American as a woman, the best of her professional life was passed in
England, where she was liberally patronized and fully appreciated. Dunlap calls her an extraordinary
woman, and several writers have mentioned her power of judging the character of her visitors,
in which she rarely made a mistake, and chose her friends with unusual intelligence.

Her eldest daughter married in America, and was well known as a modeller in wax in New York.
Her younger daughter married the artist Hoppner, a rival in portraiture of Stuart and Lawrence,
while her son Joseph was a portrait painter. His likeness of Washington was much admired.

<b>WULFRAAT, MARGARETTA.</b> Born at Arnheim. 1678-1741. Was a pupil of Caspar Netscher of
Heidelberg, whose little pictures are of fabulous value. Although he was so excellent a painter
he was proud of Margaretta, whose pictures were much admired in her day. Her "Musical Conversation"
is in the Museum of Schwerin. Her "Cleopatra" and "Semiramis" are in the Gallery at Amsterdam.

<b>YANDELL, ENID.</b> Special Designer's Medal, Chicago, 1893; silver medal, Tennessee Exposition;
Honorable Mention, Buffalo, 1901. Member of National Sculpture Society; Municipal Art Society;
National Arts Club, all of New York. Born in Louisville, Kentucky. Graduate of Cincinnati Art
Academy. Pupil of Philip Martiny in New York, and in Paris of Frederick McMonnies and Auguste
Rodin.

The principal works of this artist are the Mayor Lewis monument at New Haven, Connecticut;
the Chancellor Garland Memorial, Vanderbilt University, Nashville; Carrie Brown Memorial Fountain,
Providence; Daniel Boone and the Ruff Fountain, Louisville.

Richard Ladegast, in January, 1902, wrote a sketch of Miss Yandell's life and works for the
Outlook, in which he says that Miss Yandell was the first woman to become a member of the National
Sculpture Society. I quote from his article as follows: "The most imposing product of Miss
Yandell's genius was the heroic figure of Athena, twenty-five feet in height, which stood in
front of the reproduction of the Parthenon at the Nashville Exposition. There are no gods, but
there are men, and fire that comes from the will.

"She groaned, and lay back and wrapped the sheets round her closely like cerements, as if by shamming
dead she could cast off the hot thoughtfulness of life. But indeed she gained some comfort
from this dialogue with that uncomfortable self, for she knew again how wise it was, and its
predictions seemed irrational only because it had remembered all that her consciousness had determined
to forget for fear it threw so strong a light on her fate that she
would lose her courage to live.

Her reasoning self was a light, irreligious thing, and thought about what she should eat and
what she should drink and where she should sleep, but this other self had never awakened save
to speak of Harry or Richard. She trusted it, and she could recall quite definitely that on that
afternoon thirty years before it had sanctioned her decision to abandon conflict and do what people
wished to do. It knew, what her consciousness had forgotten, of how she herself had felt when
she was within her mother's womb, and it was able to warn her that her unborn baby was seriously
thinking of revising its decision to live. While she had staggered under the stones, the child had
quailed in the midst of her terror like a naked man above whom breaks a thunderstorm; her nerves
had played round him like a shaft of lightning, her loud heart-beat had been the thunder. Now
her fear-poisoned blood gave it sickly nourishment, at which the
foetal heart beat weakly, so that the embryo knew what the born know
as faintness.

The system of delicate mechanical adjustments by which it poises in the womb was for the moment
dislocated, and at this violent warning of what life can be its will to live was overcast by doubt.
If she could rest here now, and go home and have a long sleep, and
sit all the next morning on the brow of the hill and watch the fishing-boats
lie like black, fainting birds on the shining flats, the child would
feel her like a peaceful fane around it and it would decide to live.

But if Harry's mother came to see her next day it would forsake her.

She would come very early, for she was one of those people who suffer
from a displaced day as others suffer from a displaced heart, and
rose at six.

Long before Marion had completed the long sleep that was necessary for the reassurance of her
child she would be shaken, and look up into her grandmother's face, which she did not like,
for though the expressions that passed over it were the same as they had always been, it was
now overlaid with a patina of malice. She would smile now, as she dared to years ago, when she used
to tell her little granddaughter that Lady Teresa had come to give
her a present for reciting so nicely at the church school concert,
but all her aspect would mean hatred of this girl who had been given
the romantic love that she had been denied, and hope that its fruit
might be destroyed.

The room would be tidied; her drowsy head would be tormented by the banging of drawers and
the rustling of paper. Out of consideration for Lady Teresa's feelings the photograph of Harry
by her bed would be turned face downwards.

That she would not really mind, for she would have liked to take it out of the frame and tear
it to pieces; but she would have to pretend that she minded.

Then there would burst into her room the trailing and squawking personality
of Lady Teresa.

She would bring with her a quantity of warm black stuffs, for she was one of the most enthusiastic
followers of Queen Victoria in the attempt to express the grief of
widowhood by a profusion of dark dry goods, and she would sit close
to the bed, so that Marion would lose nothing of the large face, with
its beak nose and its bagging chin and its insulting expression of
outraged common sense, or of the strangulated contralto in which she
would urge that there was no reason why any sensible gel should not
be proud to marry the butler at Torque House.

By sheer noisiness she would make Marion cry. The child would doubt again.... Since these things
would have happened she could not do other than she did. Her surrender was the price she had
to pay for Richard's life.

How artfully, moreover, it was disguised from her that she was going
to pay any real price!

Here began the intimate study of the heath which so largely influenced the best pictures by
Frau Bilders. In the garden of the picturesque house in which the two artists lived was an
old barn, which became her studio, where, early and late, in all sorts of weather, she devotedly
observed the effects later pictured on her canvases. At this time she executed one of her best
works, now in the collection of the Prince Regent of Brunswick. It is thus described by a Dutch
writer in Rooses' "Dutch Painters of the Nineteenth Century":

"It represents a deep pool, overshadowed by old gnarled willows in their autumnal foliage,
their silvery trunks bending over, as if to see themselves in the clear, still water. On the
edge of the pool are flowers and variegated grasses, the latter looking as if they wished to
crowd out the former--as if they were in the right and the flowers in the wrong; as if such
bright-hued creatures had no business to eclipse their more sombre tones; as if they and they
alone were suited to this silent, forsaken spot."

Johannes Bilders was fully twenty-five years older than his wife, and the failure of both his
physical and mental powers in his last days required her absolute devotion to him. In spite
of this, the garden studio was not wholly forsaken, and nearly every day she accomplished something
there. After her husband's death she had a long illness. On her recovery she returned to The
Hague and took the studio which had been that of the artist Mauve.

The life of the town was wearisome to her, but she found a compensation in her re-union with
her old friends, and with occasional visits to the heath she passed most of her remaining years
in the city.

Her favorite subjects were landscapes with birch and beech trees, and the varying phases of
the heath and of solitary and unfrequented scenes. Her works are all in private collections.
Among them are "The Forester's Cottage," "Autumn in Doorwerth," "The Old Birch," and the "Old
Oaks of Wodan at Sunset."

<b>BOZNANSKA, OLGA.</b> Born in Cracow, where she was a pupil of Matejko. Later, in Munich,
she studied with Kricheldorf and Dürr. Her mother was a French woman, and critics trace both
Polish and French characteristics in her work.

She paints portraits and genre subjects. She is skilful in seizing salient characteristics,
and her chief aim is to preserve the individuality of her sitters and models. She skilfully
manages the side-lights, and by this means produces strong effects. After the first exhibition
of her pictures in Berlin, her "God-given talent" was several times mentioned by the art critics.

At Munich she made a good impression by her pictures exhibited in 1893 and 1895; at the Exposition
in Paris, 1889, her portrait and a study in pastel were much admired and were generously praised
in the art journals.

*<b>COX, LOUISE.</b> The picture by Mrs. Cox, reproduced in this book, illustrates two lines
in a poem by Austin Dobson, called "A Song of Angiola in Heaven."

    "Then set I lips to hers, and felt,--
    Ah, God,--the hard pain fade and melt."

<b>DE MORGAN, EMILY.</b> Family name Pickering. When sixteen years old, this artist entered
the Slade School, and eighteen months later received the Slade Scholarship, by which she was
entitled to benefit for three years. At the end of the first year, however, she resigned this
privilege because she did not wish to accept the conditions of the gift.

As a child she had loved the pictures of the precursors of Raphael, in the National Gallery,
and her first exhibited picture, "Ariadne in Naxos," hung in the Grosvenor Gallery in 1877,
proved how closely she had studied these old masters. At this time she knew nothing of the
English Pre-Raphaelites; later, however, she became one of the most worthy followers of Burne-Jones.

About the time that she left the Slade School one of her uncles took up his residence in Florence,
where she has spent several winters in work and study.

One of her most important pictures is inscribed with these lines:

    "Dark is the valley of shadows,
    Empty the power of kings;
    Blind is the favor of fortune,
    Hungry the caverns of death.
    Dim is the light from beyond,
    Unanswered the riddle of life."

This pessimistic view of the world is illustrated by the figure of a king, who, in the midst
of ruins, places his foot upon the prostrate form of a chained victim; Happiness, with bandaged
eyes, scatters treasures into the bottomless pit, a desperate youth being about to plunge into
its depths; a kneeling woman, praying for light, sees brilliant figures soaring upward, their
beauty charming roses from the thorn bushes.

Other pictures by this artist remind one of the works of Botticelli. Of her "Ithuriel" W. S.
Sparrow wrote: "It may be thought that this Ithuriel is too mild--too much like Shakespeare's
Oberon--to be in keeping with the terrific tragedy depicted in the first four books of the
'Paradise Lost.' Eve, too, lovely as she is, seems to bear no likelihood of resemblance to
Milton's superb mother of mankind. But the picture has a sweet, serene grace which should make
us glad to accept from Mrs. De Morgan another Eve and another Ithuriel, true children of her
own fancy."

The myth of "Boreas and Orithyia," though faulty perhaps in technique, is good in conception
and arrangement.

Mrs. De Morgan has produced some impressive works in sculpture. Among these are "Medusa," a
bronze bust; and a "Mater Dolorosa," in terra-cotta.

<b>DESCHLY, IRENE.</b> Born in Bucharest, the daughter of a Roumanian advocate. She gave such
promise as an artist that a government stipend was bestowed on her, which enabled her to study
in Paris, where she was a pupil of Laurens and E. Carrière.

Her work is tinged with the melancholy and intensity of her nature--perhaps of her race; yet
there is something in her grim conceptions, or rather in her treatment of them, that demands
attention and compels admiration. Even in her "Sweet Dream," which represents the half-nude
figure of a young girl holding a rose in her hand, there is more sadness than joy, as though
she said, "It is only a dream, after all." "Chanson," exhibited at the Paris Exposition, 1900,
displays something of the same quality.

<b>ERISTOW-KASAK, PRINCESS MARIE.</b> Among the many Russian portraits in the Paris Exposition,
1900, two, the work of this pupil of Michel de Zichys, stood out in splendid contrast with
the crass realism or the weak idealism of the greater number. One was a half-length portrait
of the laughing Mme. Paquin; full of life and movement were the pose of the figure, the fall
of the draperies, and the tilt of the expressive fan. The other was the spirited portrait of
Baron von Friedericks, a happy combination of cavalier and soldier in its manly strength.

When but sixteen years old, the Princess Marie roused the admiration of the Russian court by
her portrait of the Grand Duke Sergius. This led to her painting portraits of various members
of the royal family while she was still a pupil of De Zichys.

After her marriage she established herself in Paris, where she endeavors to preserve an incognito
as an artist in order to work in the most quiet and devoted manner.

<b>GOEBELER, ELISE.</b> This artist studied drawing under Steffeck and color under Dürr, in
Munich. Connoisseurs in art welcome the name of Elise Goebeler in exhibitions, and recall the
remarkable violet-blue lights and the hazy atmosphere in her works, out of which emerges some
charming, graceful figure; perhaps a young girl on whose white shoulders the light falls, while
a shadow half conceals the rest of the form. These dreamy, Madonna-like beauties are the result
of the most severe and protracted study. Without the remarkable excellence of their technique
and the unusual quality of their color they would be the veriest sentimentalities; but wherever
they are seen they command admiration.

Her "Cinderella," exhibited in Berlin in 1880, was bought by the Emperor; another picture of
the same subject, but quite different in effect, was exhibited in Munich in 1883. In the same
year, in Berlin, "A Young Girl with Pussy-Willows" and "A Neapolitan Water Carrier" were seen.
In 1887, in Berlin, her "Vanitas, Vanitatum Vanitas" and the "Net-Mender" were exhibited, and
ten years later "Cheerfulness" was highly commended. At Munich, in 1899, her picture, called
"Elegie," attracted much attention and received unusual praise.

*<b>HERBELIN, JEANE MATHILDE.</b> This miniaturist has recently died at the age of eighty-four.
In addition to the medals and honors she had received previous to 1855, it was that year decided
that her works should be admitted to the Salon without examination. She was a daughter of General
Habert, and a niece of Belloc, under whom she studied her art while still very young. Her early
ambition was to paint large pictures, but Delacroix persuaded her to devote herself to miniature
painting, in which art she has been called "the best in the world."

She adopted the full tones and broad style to which she was accustomed in her larger works,
and revolutionized the method of miniature painting in which stippling had prevailed. When
eighteen years old, she went to Italy, where she made copies from the masters and did much
original work as well.

Among her best portraits are those of the Baroness Habert, Guizot, Rossini, Isabey, Robert-Fleury,
M. and Mme. de Torigny, Count de Zeppel, and her own portrait. Besides portraits, she painted
a picture called "A Child Holding a Rose," "Souvenir," and "A Young Girl Playing with a Fan."

<b>JOHNSON, ADELAIDE.</b> Born at Plymouth, Illinois. This sculptor first studied in the St.
Louis School of Design, and in 1877, at the St. Louis Exposition, received two prizes for the
excellence of her wood carving. During several years she devoted herself to interior decoration,
designing not only the form and color to be used in decorating edifices, but also the furniture
and all necessary details to complete them and make them ready for use.

Being desirous of becoming a sculptor, Miss Johnson went, in 1883, to England, Germany, and
Italy. In Rome she was a pupil of Monteverde and of Altini, who was then president of the Academy
of St. Luke.

After two years she returned to America and began her professional career in Chicago, where
she remained but a year before establishing herself in Washington. Her best-known works are
portrait busts, which are numerous. Many of these have been seen in the Corcoran Art Gallery
and in other public exhibitions.

Of her bust of Susan B. Anthony, the sculptor, Lorado Taft, said: "Your bust of Miss Anthony
is better than mine. I tried to make her real, but you have made her not only real, but ideal."
Among her portraits are those of General Logan, Dr. H. W. Thomas, Isabella Beecher Hooker,
William Tebb, Esq., of London, etc.

<b>KOEGEL, LINDA.</b> Born at The Hague. A pupil of Stauffer-Bern in Berlin and of Herterich
in Munich. Her attachment to impressionism leads this artist to many experiments in color--or,
as one critic wrote, "to play with color."

She apparently prefers to paint single figures of women and young girls, but her works include
a variety of subjects. She also practises etching, pen-and-ink drawing, as well as crayon and
water-color sketching. The light touch in some of her genre pictures is admirable, and in contrast,
the portrait of her father--- the court preacher--displays a masculine firmness in its handling,
and is a very striking picture.

In 1895 she exhibited at the Munich Secession the portrait of a woman, delicate but spirited,
and a group which was said to set aside every convention in the happiest manner.

<b>KROENER, MAGDA.</b> The pictures of flowers which this artist paints prove her to be a devoted
lover of nature. She exhibited at Düsseldorf, in 1893, a captivating study of red poppies and
another of flowering vetch, which were bought by the German Emperor. The following year she
exhibited two landscapes, one of which was so much better than the other that it was suggested
that she might have been assisted by her husband, the animal painter, Christian Kroener.

One of her most delightful pictures, "A Quiet Corner," represents a retired nook in a garden,
overgrown with foliage and flowers, so well painted that one feels that they must be fragrant.

<b>LEPSIUS, SABINA.</b> Daughter of Gustav Graf and wife of the portrait painter, Lepsius.
She was a pupil of Gussow, then of the Julian Academy in Paris, and later studied in Rome.
Her pictures have an unusual refinement; like some other German women artists, she aims at
giving a subtle impression of character and personality in her treatment of externals, and
her work has been said to affect one like music.

The portrait of her little daughter, painted in a manner which suggests Van Dyck, is one of
the works which entitle her to consideration.

<b>LEYSTER, JUDITH.</b> A native of Haarlem on Zandam, the date of her birth being unknown.
She died in 1660. In 1636 she married the well-known artist, Jan Molemaer. She did her work
at a most interesting period in Dutch painting. Her earliest picture is dated 1629; she was
chosen to the Guild of St. Luke at Haarlem in 1633.

Recent investigations make it probable that certain pictures which have for generations been
attributed to Frans Hals were the work of Judith Leyster. In 1893 a most interesting lawsuit,
which occurred in London and was reported in the Times, concerned a picture known as "The Fiddlers,"
which had been sold as a work of Frans Hals for £4,500. The purchasers found that this claim
was not well founded, and sought to recover their money.

A searching investigation traced the ownership of the work back to a connoisseur of the time
of William III. In 1678 it was sold for a small sum, and was then called "A Dutch Courtesan
Drinking with a Young Man." The monogram on the picture was called that of Frans Hals, but
as reproduced and explained by C. Hofstede de Groot in the "Jahrbuch für Königlich-preussischen
Kunst-Sammlungen" for 1893, it seems evident that the signature is J. L. and not F. H.

Similar initials are on the "Flute Player," in the gallery at Stockholm; the "Seamstress,"
in The Hague Gallery, and on a picture in the Six collection at Amsterdam.

It is undeniable that these pictures all show the influence of Hals, whose pupil Judith Leyster
may have been, and whose manner she caught as Mlle. Mayer caught that of Greuze and Prud'hon.
At all events, the present evidence seems to support the claim that the world is indebted to
Judith Leyster for these admirable pictures.

<b>MACH, HILDEGARDE VON.</b> This painter studied in Dresden and Munich, and under the influence
of Anton Pepinos she developed her best characteristics, her fine sense of form and of color.
She admirably illustrates the modern tendency in art toward individual expression--a tendency
which permits the following of original methods, and affords an outlet for energy and strength
of temperament.

Fräulein Mach has made a name in both portrait and genre painting. Her "Waldesgrauen" represents
two naked children in an attitude of alarm as the forest grows dark around them; it gives a
vivid impression of the mysterious charm and the possible dangers which the deep woods present
to the childish mind.

<b>MAYER, MARIE FRANÇOISE CONSTANCE.</b> As early as 1806 this artist received a gold medal
from the Paris Salon, awarded to her picture of "Venus and Love Asleep." Born 1775, died 1821.
She studied under Suvée, Greuze, and Prud'hon. There are various accounts of the life of Mlle.
Mayer. That of M. Charles Guenllette is the authority followed here. It is probable that Mlle.
Mayer came under the influence of Prud'hon as early as 1802, possibly before that time.

Prud'hon, a sensitive man, absorbed in his art, had married at twenty a woman who had no sympathy
with his ideals, and when she realized that he had no ambition, and was likely to be always
poor, her temper got the better of any affection she had ever felt for him. Prud'hon, in humiliation
and despair, lived in a solitude almost complete.

It was with difficulty that Mlle. Mayer persuaded this master to receive her as a pupil; but
this being gained, both these painters had studios in the Sorbonne from 1809 to 1821. At the
latter date all artists were obliged to vacate the Sorbonne ateliers to make room for some
new department of instruction. Mlle. Mayer had been for some time in a depressed condition,
and her friends had been anxious about her. Whether leaving the Sorbonne had a tendency to
increase her melancholy is not known, but her suicide came as a great surprise and shock to
all who knew her, especially to Prud'hon, who survived her less than two years.

Prud'hon painted several portraits of Mlle. Mayer, the best-known being now in the Louvre.
It represents an engaging personality, in which vivacity and sensibility are distinctly indicated.

Mlle. Mayer had made her début at the Salon of 1896 with a portrait of "Citizeness Mayer,"
painted by herself, and showing a sketch for the portrait of her mother; also a picture of
a "Young Scholar with a Portfolio Under His Arm," and a miniature. From this time her work
was seen at each year's salon.

Her pictures in 1810 were the "Happy Mother" and the "Unhappy Mother," which are now in the
Louvre; the contrast between the joyousness of the mother with her child and the anguish of
the mother who has lost her child is portrayed with great tenderness. The "Dream of Happiness,"
also in the Louvre, represents a young couple in a boat with their child; the boat is guided
down the stream of life by Love and Fortune. This is one of her best pictures. It is full of
poetic feeling, and the flesh tints are unusually natural. The work of this artist is characterized
by delicacy of touch and freshness of color while pervaded by a peculiar grace and charm. Her
drawing is good, but the composition is less satisfactory.

It is well known that Prud'hon and his pupil painted many pictures in collaboration. This has
led to an under-valuation of her ability, and both the inferior works of Prud'hon and bad imitations
of him have been attributed to her. M. Guenllette writes that when Mlle. Mayer studied under
Greuze she painted in his manner, and he inclines to the opinion that some pictures attributed
to Greuze were the work of his pupil. In the same way she imitated Prud'hon, and this critic
thinks it by no means certain that the master finished her work, as has been alleged.

In the Museum at Nancy are Mlle. Mayer's portraits of Mme. and Mlle. Voiant; in the Museum
of Dijon is an ideal head by her, and in the Bordeaux Gallery is her picture, called "Confidence."
"Innocence Prefers Love to Riches" and the "Torch of Venus" are well-known works by Mlle. Mayer.

<b>MESDAG-VAN HOUTEN, S.</b> Gold medal at Amsterdam, 1884; bronze medal, Paris Exposition,
1889. Born at Groningen, 1834. In 1856 she married Mesdag, who, rather late in life decided
to follow the career of a painter. His wife, not wishing to be separated from him in any sense,
resolved on the same profession, and about 1870 they began their study. Mme. Mesdag acquired
her technique with difficulty, and her success was achieved only as the result of great perseverance
and continual labor. The artists of Oosterbeck and Brussels, who were her associates, materially
aided her by their encouragement. She began the study of drawing at the age of thirty, and
her first attempt in oils was made seven years later. Beginning with single twigs and working
over them patiently she at length painted whole trees, and later animals. She came to know
the peculiarities of nearly all native trees.

She built a studio in the woods of Scheveningen, and there developed her characteristics--close
observation and careful reproduction of details.

In the summer of 1872 M. and Mme. Mesdag went to Friesland and Drenthe, where they made numerous
sketches of the heath, sheep, farmhouses, and the people in their quaint costumes. One of Mme.
Mesdag's pictures, afterward exhibited at Berlin, is thus described: "On this canvas we see
the moon, just as she has broken through a gray cloud, spreading her silvery sheen over the
sleepy land; in the centre we are given a sheep-fold, at the door of which a flock of sheep
are jostling and pushing each other, all eager to enter their place of rest. The wave-like
movement of these animals is particularly graceful and cleverly done. A little shepherdess
is guiding them, as anxious to get them in as they are to enter, for this means the end of
her day's work. Her worn-out blue petticoat is lighted up by a moonbeam; in her hand she appears
to have a hoe. It is a most harmonious picture; every line is in accord with its neighbor."

While residing in Brussels these two artists began to collect works of art for what is now
known as the Mesdag Museum. In 1887 a wing was added to their house to accommodate their increasing
treasures, which include especially good examples of modern French painting, pottery, tapestry,
etc.

In 1889 an exhibition of the works of these painters was held. Here convincing proof was given
of Mme. Mesdag's accuracy, originality of interpretation, and her skill in the use of color.

<b>MÖLLER, AGNES SLOTT, OR SLOTT-MÖLLER, AGNES.</b> This artist follows the young romantic
movement in Denmark. She has embodied in her work a modern comprehension of old legends. The
landscape and people of her native land seem to her as eminently suitable motives, and these
realities she renders in the spirit of a by-gone age--that of the national heroes of the sagas
and epics of the country, or the lyric atmosphere of the folk-songs.

She may depict these conceptions, full of feeling, in the dull colors of the North, or in rich
and glowing hues, but the impression she gives is much the same in both cases, a generally
restful effect, though the faces in her pictures are full of life and emotion. Her choice of
subjects and her manner of treatment almost inevitably introduce some archaic quality in her
work. This habit and the fact that she cares more for color than for drawing are the usual
criticisms of her pictures.

Her "St. Agnes" is an interesting rendering of a well-worn subject. "Adelil the Proud," exhibited
at the Paris Exposition of 1889, tells the story of the Duke of Frydensburg, who was in love
with Adelil, the king's daughter. The king put him to death, and the attendants of Adelil made
of his heart a viand which they presented to her. When she learned what this singular substance
was--that caused her to tremble violently--she asked for wine, and carrying the cup to her
lips with a tragic gesture, in memory of her lover, she died of a broken heart. It is such
legends as these that Mme. Slott-Möller revives, and by which she is widely known.

<b>MORISOT OR MORIZOT, BERTHE.</b> Married name Manet. Once they were within the porch he bent
over her solicitously, and through his loose-parted lips came the softest murmur: "Poor little
girl!" Had he said that for her to hear, or had some real tenderness in his heart spoken to itself?
Was he really a kind man?

She looked at him searchingly, imploringly, but from his large, shallow-set grey eyes, which
he kept fixedly on her face, she could learn nothing. In any case she must take his arm, or she
would fall. She even found herself shrinking towards his pulpy body as he pushed open the door,
because she was afraid the people inside might not welcome her. She did not know the Cliffes,
for they were Canewdon people who had moved here four or five years
back, when Grandmother was too old and she was too young to make friends
with a young married woman.

But its trim garden, where on golden summer evenings she had seen the blind man clipping the
hedge, his clouded face shyly proud at such a victory over his affliction, while his wife stood
by and smiled, half at his pleasure and half at her own loveliness,
and the windows, lit rosily at night, had often set Marion wishing
that Harry and she were properly married.

Because she had received the impression that this was a happy home, she was uneasy, for of
late she had learned that happy people hate the unhappy. But the shaft of sunlight that traversed
the parlour into which they stepped was as thickly inhabited with
dancing motes as if they were stepping into some vacated house given
over to decay.

There was dust everywhere, and the grandfather clock had stopped, and the peonies in the vase
on the table had died yesterday; and the woman who stood in the middle of the room, looking down
at her hands and turning her wedding ring on her finger, was not
pretty or joyous.

Her face was a smudge of sullenness under hair that was elaborately dressed yet was dull for lack of
brushing, and her body drooped within the stiff tower of her thickly-boned Sunday-best dress.
She looked at Marion without curiosity from an immense distance of
preoccupation.

There came from a room at the back of the house the strains of "Nearer, my God, to Thee,"
played on the harmonium, and at that she made a weak, abstracted
gesture of irritation.

"Go and get a basin of water and a bit o'rag.

The girl's head's bleeding," said Peacey, and she went out of the room obediently. He collected all
the cushions in the room and piled them on the horsehair sofa, and helped her to lie comfortably
down on them. Then he walked to the window, and stood there looking out until Mrs. Cliffe came
back into the room.

He took the basin without thanks, and set it down on a chair and began to bathe Marion's head,
while Mrs. Cliffe stood by watching incuriously.

"Now then, Trixy," he said, not unpleasantly, "you'd best go into the back parlour and listen
to your beloved husband playing hymns so trustfully."

She went away, still without speaking, and Marion, no longer feeling defensive before a stranger,
closed her eyes. Really his fat hands were very gentle, very clever and quick. After a few
moments he had finished, and she was able to turn her face to the wall and talk to her baby
that had been saved to her, and to exult that after all she would
see those eyes.

She shivered to think how nearly she had lost him, and was transfixed by her hatred of Harry.
She turned hastily and faced the room.

Peacey was watching her with his quiet eyes. He said in a silken voice, "This sort of thing wouldn't
happen to you if you were married to me."

She lay quite still, looking at the ceiling. She knew that what he said was true.
"You've looked at me as if I were a pickpocket, you have," he went
on, "just because I want to marry you. I don't hold it against you.

A portrait of Miss Gibson was also at the Salon of 1895, and "Vittoria Colonna" and a "Venetian
Girl" were sent to Munich. These were followed by the "Flower of the Alps" and "Desdemona"
in 1896; "Doña Mona," palpitating with life, and "Faustalla of Pistoia," with short golden
hair and a majestic poise of the head, in 1897; "Salome" and "Angelica," two widely differing
pictures in character and color, in 1898; "Mina of Fiesole," and the portrait of a golden-haired
beauty in a costume of black and gold, in 1899; the portrait of Mlle. H. D., in 1900; "L'Infante,"
one of her most noble creations, of a remarkably fine execution, and a ravishing child called
"Roger"--with wonderful blond hair--in 1901.

Mlle. Romani often paints directly on the canvas without preliminary sketch or study, and sells
many of her pictures before they are finished. Some of her works have been purchased by the
French Government, and there are examples of these in the Luxembourg, and in the Gallery of
Mülhausen.

<b>RUPPRECHT, TINI.</b> After having lessons from private instructors, this artist studied
under Lenbach. She has been much influenced by Gainsborough, Lawrence, and Reynolds, traces
of their manner being evident in her work. She renders the best type of feminine seductiveness
with delicacy and grace; she avoids the trivial and gross, but pictures all the allurements
of an innocent coquetry.

Her portrait of the Princess Marie, of Roumania, was exhibited in Munich in 1901; its reality
and personality were notable, and one critic called it "an oasis in a desert of portraits."
"Anno 1793" and "A Mother and Child" have attracted much favorable comment in Munich, where
her star is in the ascendant, and greater excellence in her work is confidently prophesied.

<b>SCHWARTZE, THERESE.</b> Honorable mention, Paris Salon, 1885; gold medal, 1889. Diploma
at Ghent, 1892; gold medal, 1892. At International Exhibition, Barcelona, 1898, a gold medal.
Made a Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau, 1896. Born in Amsterdam about 1851. A pupil of
her father until his death, when she became a student under Gabriel Max, in Munich, for a year.
Returning to Amsterdam, she was much encouraged by Israels, Bilders, and Bosboom, friends of
her father.

She went to Paris in 1878 and was so attracted by the artistic life which she saw that she
determined to study there. But she did not succeed in finding a suitable studio, neither an
instructor who pleased her, and she returned to Amsterdam. It was at this time that she painted
the portrait of Frederick Müller.

In the spring of 1880 she went again to Paris, only to "feast on things artistic." A little
later she was summoned to the palace at Soestdijk to instruct the Princess Henry of the Netherlands.
In 1883 she served with many distinguished artists on the art jury of the International Exhibition
at Amsterdam.

In 1884 she once more yielded to the attraction that Paris had for her, and there made a great
advance in her painting. In 1885 she began to work in pastel, and one of her best portraits
in this medium was that of the Princess (Queen) Wilhelmina, which was loaned by the Queen Regent
for the exhibition of this artist's work in Amsterdam in 1890.

The Italian Government requested Miss Schwartze to paint her own portrait for the Uffizi Gallery.
This was shown at the Paris Salon, 1889, and missed the gold medal by two votes. This portrait
is thought by some good judges to equal that of Mme. Le Brun. The head with the interesting
eyes, shaded by the hand which wards off the light, and the penetrating, observant look, are
most impressive.

She has painted a portrait of Queen Emma, and sent to Berlin in 1902 a portrait of Wolmaran,
a member of the Transvaal Government, which was esteemed a work of the first rank. She has
painted several portraits of her mother, which would have made for her a reputation had she
done no others. She has had many notable men and women among her sitters, and though not a
robust woman, she works incessantly without filling all the commissions offered her.

Her pictures are in the Museums of Amsterdam and Rotterdam.

Her work is full of life and strength, and her touch shows her confidence in herself and her
technical knowledge. She is, however, a severe critic of her own work and is greatly disturbed
by indiscriminating praise. She is serious and preoccupied in her studio, but with her friends
she is full of gayety, and is greatly admired, both as a woman and as an artist.

<b>VAN DER VEER, MISS.</b> "This artist," says a recent critic, "has studied to some purpose
in excellent continental schools, and is endowed withal with a creative faculty and breadth
in conception rarely found in American painters of either sex. Her genre work is full of life,
light, color, and character, with picturesque grouping, faultless atmosphere, and a breadth
of technical treatment that verges on audacity, yet never fails of its designed purpose."

The fifty pictures exhibited by Miss Van der Veer in Philadelphia, in February, 1904, included
interiors, portraits--mostly in pastel--flower studies and sketches, treating Dutch peasant
life. Among the most notable of these may be mentioned "The Chimney Corner," "Saturday Morning,"
"Mother and Child," and a portrait of the artist herself.

<b>WALDAU, MARGARETHE.</b> Born in Breslau, 1860. After studying by herself in Munich, this
artist became a pupil of Streckfuss in Berlin, and later, in Nuremberg, studied under the younger
Graeb and Ritter. The first subject chosen by her for a picture was the "Portal of the Church
of the Magdalene." Her taste for architectural motives was strengthened by travel in Russia,
the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany.

The fine old churches of Nuremberg and the venerable edifices of Breslau afforded her most
attractive subjects, which she treated with such distinction that her pictures were sought
by kings and princes as well as by appreciative connoisseurs.

Her success increased her confidence in herself and enhanced the boldness and freedom with
which she handled her brush. An exhibition of her work in Berlin led to her receiving a commission
from the Government to paint two pictures for the Paris Exposition, 1900. "Mayence at Sunset"
and the "Leipzig Market-Place in Winter" were the result of this order, and are two of her
best works.

Occasionally this artist has painted genre subjects, but her real success has not been in this
direction.