"Yerkes of course will give us tea," said Elizabeth. "His cakes are a strong point"; she turned
to Anderson. "And we may really have an engine?"

"Certainly. We shall run you out in forty minutes. You still wish to go on to-night?"

"Philip does. Can we?"

"You can do anything you wish," said Anderson, smiling.

Elizabeth thanked him, and they chatted a little more about the arrangements and guests for
the afternoon, while Delaine listened. Who on earth was this new acquaintance of Lady Merton's?
Some person she had met in the train apparently, and connected with the C.P.R. A good-looking
fellow, a little too sure of himself; but that of course was the Colonial fault.

"One of the persons coming this afternoon is an old Montreal fellow-student of mine," the Canadian
was saying. "He is going to be a great man some day. But if you get him to talk, you won't
like his opinions--I thought I'd better warn you."

"How very interesting!" put in Delaine, with perhaps excessive politeness. "What sort of opinions?
Do you grow any Socialists here?"

Anderson examined the speaker, as it were for the first time.

"The man I was speaking of is a French-Canadian," he said, rather shortly, "and a Catholic."

"The very man I want to see," cried Elizabeth. "I suppose he hates us?"

"Who?--England? Not at all. He loves England--or says he does--and hates the Empire."

"'Love me, love my Empire!'" said Elizabeth. "But, I see--I am not to talk to him about the
Boer War, or contributing to the Navy?"

"Better not," laughed Anderson. "I am sure he will want to behave himself; but he sometimes
loses his head."

Elizabeth sincerely hoped he might lose it at her party.

"We want as much Canada as possible, don't we?" She appealed to Delaine.

"To see, in fact, the 'young barbarians--all at play!'" said Anderson. The note of sarcasm
had returned to his clear voice. He stood, one hand on his hip, looking down on Lady Merton.

"Oh!" exclaimed Elizabeth, protesting; while Delaine was conscious of surprise that anyone
in the New World should quote anything.

Anderson hastily resumed: "No, no. I know you are most kind, in wishing to see everything you can."

"Why else should one come to the Colonies?" put in Delaine. Again his smile, as he spoke, was
a little overdone.

"Oh, we mustn't talk of Colonies," cried Elizabeth, looking at Anderson; "Canada, Mr. Arthur,
doesn't like to be called a colony."

"What is she, then?" asked Delaine, with an amused shrug of the shoulders.

"She is a nation!" said the Canadian, abruptly. Then, turning to Lady Merton, he rapidly went
through some other business arrangements with her.

"Three o'clock then for the car. For this morning you are provided?" He glanced at Delaine.

Lady Merton replied that Mr. Delaine would take her round; and Anderson bowed and departed.

"Who is he, and how did you come across him?" asked Delaine, as they stepped into the street.

Elizabeth explained, dwelling with enthusiasm on the kindness and ability with which the young
man, since their acquaintance began, had made himself their courier. "Philip, you know, is
no use at all. But Mr. Anderson seems to know everybody--gets everything done. Instead of sending
my letters round this morning he telephoned to everybody for me. And everybody is coming. Isn't
it too kind? You know it is for Papa's sake"--she explained eagerly--"because Canada thinks
she owes him something."

Delaine suggested that perhaps life in Winnipeg was monotonous, and its inhabitants might be
glad of distractions. He also begged--with a slight touch of acerbity--that now that he had
joined them he too might be made use of.

"Ah! but you don't know the country," said Lady Merton gently. "Don't you feel that we must
get the natives to guide us--to put us in the way? It is only they who can really feel the
poetry of it all."

Her face kindled. Arthur Delaine, who thought that her remark was one of the foolish exaggerations
of nice women, was none the less conscious as she made it, that her appearance was charming--all
indeed that a man could desire in a wife. Her simple dress of white linen, her black hat, her
lovely eyes, and little pointed chin, the bunch of white trilliums at her belt, which a child
in the emigrant car had gathered and given her the day before--all her personal possessions
and accessories seemed to him perfection. Yes!--but he meant to go slowly, for both their sakes.
It seemed fitting and right, however, at this point that he should express his great pleasure
and gratitude in being allowed to join them. Elizabeth replied simply, without any embarrassment
that could be seen. Yet secretly both were conscious that something was on its trial, and that
more was in front of them than a mere journey through the Rockies. He was an old friend both
of herself and her family. She believed him to be honourable, upright, affectionate. He was
of the same world and tradition as herself, well endowed, a scholar and a gentleman. He would
make a good brother for Philip. And heretofore she had seen him on ground which had shown him
to advantage; either at home or abroad, during a winter at Rome--a spring at Florence.

Indeed, as they strolled about Winnipeg, he talked to her incessantly about persons and incidents
connected with the spring of the year before, when they had both been in Rome.

"You remember that delicious day at Castel Gandolfo?--on the terrace of the Villa Barberini?
And the expedition to Horace's farm? You recollect the little girl there--the daughter of the
Dutch Minister? She's married an American--a very good fellow. They've bought an old villa
on Monte Mario."

And so on, and so on. The dear Italian names rolled out, and the speaker grew more and more
animated and agreeable.

Only, unfortunately, Elizabeth's attention failed him. A motor car had been lent them in the
hospitable Canadian way; and as they sped through and about the city, up the business streets,
round the park, and the residential suburb rising along the Assiniboine, as they plunged through
seas of black mud to look at the little old-fashioned Cathedral of St. John, with its graveyard
recalling the earliest days of the settlement, Lady Merton gradually ceased even to pretend
to listen to her companion.

"They have found some extremely jolly things lately at Porto D'Anzio--a fine torso--quite Greek."

"Have they?" said Elizabeth, absently--"Have they?--And to think that in 1870, just a year
or two before my father and mother married, there was nothing here but an outpost in the wilderness!--a
few scores of people! One just hears this country grow." She turned pensively away from the
tombstone of an old Scottish settler in the shady graveyard of St. John.

"Ah! but what will it grow to?" said Delaine, drily. "Is Winnipeg going to be interesting?--is
it going to matter?"

"Come and look at the Emigration Offices," laughed Elizabeth for answer.

And he found himself dragged through room after room of the great building, and standing by
while Elizabeth, guided by an official who seemed to hide a more than Franciscan brotherliness
under the aspects of a canny Scot, and helped by an interpreter, made her way into the groups
of home-seekers crowding round the clerks and counters of the lower room--English, Americans,
Swedes, Dutchmen, Galicians, French Canadians. Some men, indeed, who were actually hanging
over maps, listening to the directions and information of the officials, were far too busy
to talk to tourists, but there were others who had finished their business, or were still waiting
their turn, and among them, as also among the women, the little English lady found many willing
to talk to her.

And what courage, what vivacity she threw into the business! Delaine, who had seen her till
now as a person whose natural reserve was rather displayed than concealed by her light agreeable
manner, who had often indeed had cause to wonder where and what might be the real woman, followed
her from group to group in a silent astonishment. Between these people--belonging to the primitive
earth-life--and herself, there seemed to be some sudden intuitive sympathy which bewildered
him; whether she talked to some Yankee farmer from the Dakotas, long-limbed, lantern-jawed,
all the moisture dried out of him by hot summers, hard winters, and long toil, who had come
over the border with a pocket full of money, the proceeds of prairie-farming in a republic,
to sink it all joyfully in a new venture under another flag; or to some broad-shouldered English
youth from her own north country; or to some hunted Russian from the Steppes, in whose eyes
had begun to dawn the first lights of liberty; or to the dark-faced Italians and Frenchmen,
to whom she chattered in their own tongues.

An Indian reserve of good land had just been thrown open to settlers. The room was thronged.
But Elizabeth was afraid of no one; and no one repulsed her. The high official who took them
through, lingered over the process, busy as the morning was, all for the beaux yeux of Elizabeth;
and they left him pondering by what legerdemain he could possibly so manipulate his engagements
that afternoon as to join Lady Merton's tea-party.

"Well, that was quite interesting!" said Delaine as they emerged.

Elizabeth, however, would certainly have detected the perfunctoriness of the tone, and the
hypocrisy of the speech, had she had any thoughts to spare.

But her face showed her absorbed.

"Isn't it amazing!" Her tone was quiet, her eyes on the ground.

"Yet, after all, the world has seen a good many emigrations in its day!" remarked Delaine,
not without irritation.

She lifted her eyes.

"Ah--but nothing like this! One hears of how the young nations came down and peopled the Roman
Empire. But that lasted so long. One person--with one life--could only see a bit of it. And
here one sees it all--all, at once!--as a great march--the march of a new people to its home.
Fifty years ago, wolves and bears, and buffaloes--twelve years ago even, the great movement
had not begun--and now, every week, a new town!--the new nation spreading, spreading over the
open land, irresistibly, silently; no one setting bounds to it, no one knowing what will come
of it!"

She checked herself. Her voice had been subdued, but there was a tremor in it. Delaine caught
her up, rather helplessly.

"Ah! isn't that the point? What will come of it? Numbers and size aren't everything. Where
is it all tending?"

She looked up at him, still exalted, still flushed, and said softly, as though she could not
help it, "'On to the bound of the waste--on to the City of God!'"

He gazed at her in discomfort. Here was an Elizabeth Merton he had yet to know. No trace of
her in the ordinary life of an English country house!

"You are Canadian!" he said with a smile.

"No, no!" said Elizabeth eagerly, recovering herself, "I am only a spectator. We see the drama--we
feel it--much more than they can who are in it. At least"--she wavered--"Well!--I have met
one man who seems to feel it!"

"Your Canadian friend?"

Elizabeth nodded.

"He sees the vision--he dreams the dream!" she said brightly. "So few do. But I think he does.
Oh, dear--dear!--how time flies! I must go and see what Philip is after."

Delaine was left discontented. He had come to press his suit, and he found a lady preoccupied.
Canada, it seemed, was to be his rival! Would he ever be allowed to get in a word edgewise?

Was there ever anything so absurd, so disconcerting? He looked forward gloomily to a dull afternoon,
in quest of fat cattle, with a car-full of unknown Canadians.

CHAPTER IV

At three o'clock, in the wide Winnipeg station, there gathered on the platform beside Lady
Merton's car a merry and motley group of people. A Chief Justice from Alberta, one of the Senators
for Manitoba, a rich lumberman from British Columbia, a Toronto manufacturer--owner of the
model farm which the party was to inspect, two or three ladies, among them a little English
girl with fine eyes, whom Philip Gaddesden at once marked for approval; and a tall, dark-complexioned
man with hollow cheeks, large ears, and a long chin, who was introduced, with particular emphasis,
to Elizabeth by Anderson, as "Mr. Félix Mariette"--Member of Parliament, apparently, for some
constituency in the Province of Quebec.

The small crowd of persons collected, all eminent in the Canadian world, and some beyond it,
examined their hostess of the afternoon with a kindly amusement. Elizabeth had sent round letters;
Anderson, who was well known, it appeared, in Winnipeg, had done a good deal of telephoning.
And by the letters and the telephoning this group of busy people had allowed itself to be gathered;
simply because Elizabeth was her father's daughter, and it was worth while to put such people
in the right way, and to send them home with some rational notions of the country they had
come to see.

And she, who at home never went out of her way to make a new acquaintance, was here the centre
of the situation, grasping the identities of all these strangers with wonderful quickness,
flitting about from one to another, making friends with them all, and constraining Philip to
do the same. Anderson followed her closely, evidently feeling a responsibility for the party
only second to her own.

He found time, however, to whisper to Mariette, as they were all about to mount the car:

"Eh bien?"

"Mais oui--très gracieuse!" said the other, but without a smile, and with a shrug of the shoulders.
He was only there to please Anderson. What did the aristocratic Englishwoman on tour--with
all her little Jingoisms and Imperialisms about her--matter to him, or he to her?

While the stream of guests was slowly making its way into the car, while Yerkes at the further
end, resplendent in a buttonhole and a white cap and apron, was watching the scene, and the
special engine, like an impatient horse, was puffing and hissing to be off, a man, who had
entered the cloak-room of the station to deposit a bundle just as the car-party arrived, approached
the cloak-room door from the inside, and looked through the glazed upper half. His stealthy
movements and his strange appearance passed unnoticed. There was a noisy emigrant party in
the cloak-room, taking out luggage deposited the night before; they were absorbed in their
own affairs, and in some wrangle with the officials which involved a good deal of lost temper
on both sides.

The man was old and grey. His face, large-featured and originally comely in outline, wore the
unmistakable look of the outcast. His eyes were bloodshot, his mouth trembled, so did his limbs
as he stood peering by the door. His clothes were squalid, and both they and his person diffused
the odours of the drinking bar from which he had just come. The porter in charge of the cloak-room
had run a hostile eye over him as he deposited his bundle. But now no one observed him; while
he, gathered up and concentrated, like some old wolf upon a trail, followed every movement
of the party entering the Gaddesden car.

George Anderson and his French Canadian friend left the platform last. As Anderson reached
the door of the car he turned back to speak to Mariette, and his face and figure were clearly
visible to the watcher behind the barred cloak-room door. A gleam of savage excitement passed
over the old man's face; his limbs trembled more violently.

Through the side windows of the car the party could be seen distributing themselves over the
comfortable seats, laughing and talking in groups. In the dining-room, the white tablecloth
spread for tea, with the china and silver upon it, made a pleasant show. And now two high officials
of the railway came hurrying up, one to shake hands with Lady Merton and see that all was right,
the other to accompany the party.

Elizabeth Merton came out in her white dress, and leant over the railing, talking, with smiles,
to the official left behind. He raised his hat, the car moved slowly off, and in the group
immediately behind Lady Merton the handsome face and thick fair hair of George Anderson showed
conspicuous as long as the special train remained in sight.

The old man raised himself and noiselessly went out upon the platform. Outside the station
he fell in with a younger man, who had been apparently waiting for him; a strong, picturesque
fellow, with the skin and countenance of a half-breed.

"Well?" said the younger, impatiently. "Thought you was goin' to take a bunk there."

"Couldn't get out before. It's all right."

"Don't care if it is," said the other sulkily. "Don't care a damn button not for you nor anythin'
you're after! But you give me my two dollars sharp, and don't keep me another half-hour waitin'.
That's what I reckoned for, an' I'm goin' to have it." He held out his hand.

The old man fumbled slowly in an inner pocket of his filthy overcoat.

"You say the car's going on to-night?"

"It is, old bloke, and Mr. George Anderson same train--number ninety-seven--as ever is. Car
shunted at Calgary to-morrow night. So none of your nonsense--fork out! I had a lot o' trouble
gettin' you the tip."

The old man put some silver into his palm with shaking fingers. The youth, who was a bartender
from a small saloon in the neighbourhood of the station, looked at him with contempt.

"Wonder when you was sober last? Think you'd better clean yourself a bit, or they'll not let
you on the train."

"Who told you I wanted to go on the train?" said the old man sharply. "I'm staying at Winnipeg."

"Oh! you are, are you?" said the other mockingly. "We shouldn't cry our eyes out if you was
sayin' good-bye. Ta-ta!" And with the dollars in his hand, head downwards, he went off like
the wind.

The old man waited till the lad was out of sight, then went back into the station and bought
an emigrant ticket to Calgary for the night train. He emerged again, and walked up the main
street of Winnipeg, which on this bright afternoon was crowded with people and traffic. He
passed the door of a solicitor's office, where a small sum of money, the proceeds of a legacy,
had been paid him the day before, and he finally made his way into the free library of Winnipeg,
and took down a file of the Winnipeg Chronicle.

He turned some pages laboriously, yet not vaguely. His eyes were dim and his hands palsied,
but he knew what he was looking for. He found it at last, and sat pondering it--the paragraph
which, when he had hit upon it by chance in the same place twenty-four hours earlier, had changed
the whole current of his thoughts.

"Donaldminster, Sask., May 6th.--We are delighted to hear from this prosperous and go-ahead
town that, with regard to the vacant seat the Liberals of the city have secured as a candidate
Mr. George Anderson, who achieved such an important success last year for the C.P.R. by his
settlement on their behalf of the dangerous strike which had arisen in the Rocky Mountains
section of the line, and which threatened not only to affect all the construction camps in
the district but to spread to the railway workers proper and to the whole Winnipeg section.
Mr. Anderson seems to have a remarkable hold on the railway men, and he is besides a speaker
of great force. He is said to have addressed twenty-three meetings, and to have scarcely eaten
or slept for a fortnight. He was shrewd and fair in negotiation, as well as eloquent in speech.
The result was an amicable settlement, satisfactory to all parties. And the farmers of the
West owe Mr. Anderson a good deal. So does the C.P.R. For if the strike had broken out last
October, just as the movement of the fall crops eastward was at its height, the farmers and
the railway, and Canada in general would have been at its mercy. We wish Mr. Anderson a prosperous
election (it is said, indeed, that he is not to be opposed) and every success in his political
career. He is, we believe, Canadian born--sprung from a farm in Manitoba--so that he has grown
up with the Northwest, and shares all its hopes and ambitions."

The old man, with both elbows on the table, crouched over the newspaper, incoherent pictures
of the past coursing through his mind, which was still dazed and stupid from the drink of the
night before.

Meanwhile, the special train sped along the noble Red River and out into the country. All over
the prairie the wheat was up in a smooth green carpet, broken here and there by the fields
of timothy and clover, or the patches of summer fallow, or the white homestead buildings. The
June sun shone down upon the teeming earth, and a mirage, born of sun and moisture, spread
along the edge of the horizon, so that Elizabeth, the lake-lover, could only imagine in her
bewilderment that Lake Winnipeg or Lake Manitoba had come dancing south and east to meet her,
so clearly did the houses and trees, far away behind them, and on either side, seem to be standing
at the edge of blue water, in which the white clouds overhead were mirrored, and reed-beds
stretched along the shore. But as the train receded, the mirage followed them; the dream-water
lapped up the trees and the fields, and even the line they had just passed over seemed to be
standing in water.

How foreign to an English eye was the flat, hedgeless landscape! with its vast satin-smooth
fields of bluish-green wheat; its farmhouses with their ploughed fireguards and shelter-belts
of young trees; its rare villages, each stretching in one long straggling line of wooden houses
along the level earth; its scattered, treeless lakes, from which the duck rose as the train
passed! Was it this mere foreignness, this likeness in difference, that made it strike so sharply,
with such a pleasant pungency on Elizabeth's senses? Or was it something else--some perception
of an opening future, not only for Canada but for herself, mingling with the broad light, the
keen air, the lovely strangeness of the scene?

Yet she scarcely spoke to Arthur Delaine, with whom one might have supposed this hidden feeling
connected. She was indeed aware of him all the time. She watched him secretly; watching herself,
too, in the characteristic modern way. But outwardly she was absorbed in talking with the guests.

The Chief Justice, roundly modelled, with a pink ball of a face set in white hair, had been
half a century in Canada, and had watched the Northwest grow from babyhood. He had passed his
seventieth year, but Elizabeth noticed in the old men of Canada a strained expectancy, a buoyant
hope, scarcely inferior to that of the younger generation. There was in Sir Michael's talk
no hint of a Nunc Dimittis; rather a passionate regret that life was ebbing, and the veil falling
over a national spectacle so enthralling, so dramatic.

"Before this century is out we shall be a people of eighty millions, and within measurable
time this plain of a thousand miles from here to the Rockies will be as thickly peopled as
the plain of Lombardy."

"Well, and what then?" said a harsh voice in a French accent, interrupting the Chief Justice.

Arthur Delaine's face, turning towards the speaker, suddenly lightened, as though its owner
said, "Ah! precisely."

"The plain of Lombardy is not a Paradise," continued Mariette, with a laugh that had in it
a touch of impatience.

"Not far off it," murmured Delaine, as he looked out on the vast field of wheat they were passing--a
field two miles long, flat and green and bare as a billiard-table--and remembered the chestnuts
and the looping vines, the patches of silky corn and spiky maize, and all the interlacing richness
and broidering of the Italian plain. His soul rebelled against this naked new earth, and its
bare new fortunes. All very well for those who must live in it and make it. "Yet is there better
than it!"--lands steeped in a magic that has been woven for them by the mere life of immemorial
generations.

He murmured this to Elizabeth, who smiled.

"Their shroud?" she said, to tease him. "But Canada has on her wedding garment!"

Again he asked himself what had come to her. She looked years younger than when he had parted
from her in England. The delicious thought shot through him that his advent might have something
to do with it.

He stooped towards her.

"Willy-nilly, your friends must like Canada!" he said, in her ear; "if it makes you so happy."

He had no art of compliment, but the words were simple and sincere, and Elizabeth grew suddenly
rosy, to her own great annoyance. Before she could reply, however, the Chief Justice had insisted
on bringing her back into the general conversation.

"Come and keep the peace, Lady Merton! Here is my friend Mariette playing the devil's advocate
as usual. Anderson tells me you are inclined to think well of us; so perhaps you ought to hear it."

Mariette smiled and bowed a trifle sombrely. He was plain and gaunt, but he had the air of
a grand seigneur, and was in fact a member of one of the old seigneurial families of Quebec.

"I have been enquiring of Sir Michael, madam, whether he is quite happy in his mind as to these
Yankees that are now pouring into the new provinces. He, like everyone else, prophesies great
things for Canada; but suppose it is an American Canada?"

"Let them come," said Anderson, with a touch of scorn. "Excellent stuff! We can absorb them.
We are doing it fast."

"Can you? They are pouring all over the new districts as fast as the survey is completed and
the railways planned. They bring capital, which your Englishman doesn't. They bring knowledge
of the prairie and the climate, which your Englishmen haven't got. As for capital, America
is doing everything; financing the railways, the mines, buying up the lands, and leasing the
forests. British Columbia is only nominally yours; American capital and business have got their
grip firm on the very vitals of the province."

"Perfectly true!"--put in the lumberman from Vancouver--"They have three-fourths of the forests
in their hands."

"No matter!" said Anderson, kindling. "There was a moment of danger--twenty years ago. It is
gone. Canada will no more be American than she will be Catholic--with apologies to Mariette.
These Yankees come in--they turn Englishmen in six months--they celebrate Dominion Day on the
first of July, and Independence Day, for old sake's sake, on the fourth; and their children
will be as loyal as Toronto."

"Aye, and as dull!" said Mariette fiercely.

The conversation dissolved in protesting laughter. The Chief Justice, Anderson, and the lumberman
fell upon another subject. Philip and the pretty English girl were flirting on the platform
outside, Mariette dropped into a seat beside Elizabeth.

"You know my friend, Mr. Anderson, madam?"

"I made acquaintance with him on the journey yesterday. He has been most kind to us."

"He is a very remarkable man. When he gets into the House, he will be heard of. He will perhaps
make his mark on Canada."

"You and he are old friends?"

"Since our student days. I was of course at the French College--and he at McGill. But we saw
a great deal of each other. He used to come home with me in his holidays."

"He told me something of his early life."

"Did he? It is a sad history, and I fear we--my family, that is, who are so attached to him--have
only made it sadder. Three years ago he was engaged to my sister. Then the Archbishop forbade
mixed marriages. My sister broke it off, and now she is a nun in the Ursuline Convent at Quebec."

"Oh, poor things!" cried Elizabeth, her eye on Anderson's distant face.

"My sister is quite happy," said Mariette sharply. "She did her duty. But my poor friend suffered.
However, now he has got over it. And I hope he will marry. He is very dear to me, though we
have not a single opinion in the world in common."

Elizabeth kept him talking. The picture of Anderson drawn for her by the admiring but always
critical affection of his friend, touched and stirred her. His influence at college, the efforts
by which he had placed his brothers in the world, the sensitive and generous temperament which
had won him friends among the French Canadian students, he remaining all the time English of
the English; the tendency to melancholy--a personal and private melancholy--which mingled in
him with a passionate enthusiasm for Canada, and Canada's future; Mariette drew these things
for her, in a stately yet pungent French that affected her strangely, as though the French
of Saint Simon--or something like it--breathed again from a Canadian mouth. Anderson meanwhile
was standing outside with the Chief Justice. She threw a glance at him now and then, wondering
about his love affair. Had he really got over it?--or was that M. Mariette's delusion? She
liked, on the contrary, to think of him as constant and broken-hearted!

       *       *       *       *       *

The car stopped, as it seemed, on the green prairie, thirty miles from Winnipeg. Elizabeth
was given up to the owner of the great farm--one of the rich men of Canada for whom experiment
in the public interest becomes a passion; and Anderson walked on her other hand.

Delaine endured a wearisome half-hour. He got no speech with Elizabeth, and prize cattle were
his abomination. When the half-hour was done, he slipped away, unnoticed, from the party. He
had marked a small lake or "slough" at the rear of the house, with wide reed-beds and a clump
of cottonwood. He betook himself to the cottonwood, took out his pocket Homer and a notebook,
and fell to his task. He was in the thirteenth book:

[Greek: ôs d hot anêr dorpoio lilaietai, ô te pauêmar neion an helkêton boe oinope pêkton arotron]

"As when a man longeth for supper, for whom, the livelong day, two wine-coloured oxen have
dragged the fitted plough through the fallow, and joyful to such an one is the going down of
the sun that sends him to his meal, for his knees tremble as he goes--so welcome to Odysseus
was the setting of the sun": ...

He lost himself in familiar joy--the joy of the Greek itself, of the images of the Greek life.
He walked with the Greek ploughman, he smelt the Greek earth, his thoughts caressed the dark
oxen under the yoke. These for him had savour and delight; the wide Canadian fields had none.

Philip Gaddesden meanwhile could not be induced to leave the car. While the others were going
through the splendid stables and cowsheds, kept like a queen's parlour, he and the pretty girl
were playing at bob-cherry in the saloon, to the scandal of Yerkes, who, with the honour of
the car and the C.P.R. and Canada itself on his shoulders, could not bear that any of his charges
should shuffle out of the main item in the official programme.

But Elizabeth, as before, saw everything transfigured; the splendid Shire horses; the famous
bull, progenitor of a coming race; the sheds full of glistening cows and mottled calves. These
smooth, sleek creatures, housed there for the profit of Canada and her farm life, seemed to
Elizabeth no less poetic than the cattle of Helios to Delaine. She loved the horses, and the
patient, sweet-breathed kine; she found even a sympathetic mind for the pigs.

Presently when her host, the owner, left her to explain some of his experiments to the rest
of the party, she fell to Anderson alone. And as she strolled at his side, Anderson found the
June afternoon pass with extraordinary rapidity. Yet he was not really as forthcoming or as
frank as he had been the day before. The more he liked his companion, the more he was conscious
of differences between them which his pride exaggerated. He himself had never crossed the Atlantic;
but he understood that she and her people were "swells"--well-born in the English sense, and
rich. Secretly he credited them with those defects of English society of which the New World
talks--its vulgar standards and prejudices. There was not a sign of them certainly in Lady
Merton's conversation. But it is easy to be gracious in a new country; and the brother was
sometimes inclined to give himself airs. Anderson drew in his tentacles a little; ready indeed
to be wroth with himself that he had talked so much of his own affairs to this little lady
the day before. What possible interest could she have taken in them!

All the same, he could not tear himself from her side. Whenever Delaine left his seat by the
lake, and strolled round the corner of the wood to reconnoitre, the result was always the same.
If Anderson and Lady Merton were in sight at all, near or far, they were together. He returned,
disconsolate, to Homer and the reeds.

As they went back to Winnipeg, some chance word revealed to Elizabeth that Anderson also was
taking the night train for Calgary.

"Oh! then to-morrow you will come and talk to us!" cried Elizabeth, delighted.

Her cordial look, the pretty gesture of her head, evoked in Anderson a start of pleasure. He
was not, however, the only spectator of them. Arthur Delaine, standing by, thought for the
first time in his life that Elizabeth's manner was really a little excessive.

The car left Winnipeg that night for the Rockies. An old man, in a crowded emigrant car, with
a bundle under his arm, watched the arrival of the Gaddesden party. He saw Anderson accost
them on the platform, and then make his way to his own coach just ahead of them.

The train sped westwards through the Manitoba farms and villages. Anderson slept intermittently,
haunted by various important affairs that were on his mind, and by recollections of the afternoon.
Meanwhile, in the front of the train, the paragraph from the Winnipeg Chronicle lay carefully
folded in an old tramp's waistcoat pocket.

CHAPTER V

"I say, Elizabeth, you're not going to sit out there all day, and get your death of cold? Why
don't you come in and read a novel like a sensible woman?"

"Because I can read a novel at home--and I can't see Canada."

"See Canada! What is there to see?" The youth with the scornful voice came to lean against
the doorway beside her. "A patch of corn--miles and miles of some withered stuff that calls
itself grass, all of it as flat as your hand--oh! and, by Jove! a little brown fellow--gopher,
is that their silly name?--scootling along the line. Go it, young 'un!" Philip shied the round
end of a biscuit tin after the disappearing brown thing. "A boggy lake with a kind of salt
fringe--unhealthy and horrid and beastly--a wretched farm building--et cetera, et cetera!"

"Oh! look there, Philip--here is a school!"

Elizabeth bent forward eagerly. On the bare prairie stood a small white house, like the house
that children draw on their slates: a chimney in the middle, a door, a window on either side.
Outside, about twenty children playing and dancing. Inside, through the wide-open doorway a
vision of desks and a few bending heads.

Philip's patience was put to it. Had she supposed that children went without schools in Canada?

But she took no heed of him.

"Look how lovely the children are, and how happy! What'll Canada be when they are old? And
not another sign of habitation anywhere--nothing--but the little house--on the bare wide earth!
And there they dance, as though the world belonged to them. So it does!"

"And my sister to a lunatic asylum!" said Philip, exasperated. "I say, why doesn't that man
Anderson come and see us?"

"He promised to come in and lunch."

"He's an awfully decent kind of fellow," said the boy warmly.

Elizabeth opened her eyes.

"I didn't know you had taken any notice of him, Philip."

"No more I did," was the candid reply. "But did you see what he brought me this morning?" He
pointed to the seat behind him, littered with novels, which Elizabeth recognized as new additions
to their travelling store. "He begged or borrowed them somewhere from his friends or people
in the hotel; told me frankly he knew I should be bored to-day, and might want them. Rather
'cute of him, wasn't it?"

Elizabeth was touched. Philip had certainly shown rather scant civility to Mr. Anderson, and
this trait of thoughtfulness for a sickly and capricious traveller appealed to her.

"I suppose Delaine will be here directly?" Philip went on.

"I suppose so."

Philip let himself down into the seat beside her.

"Look here, Elizabeth," lowering his voice; "I don't think Delaine is any more excited about
Canada than I am. He told me last night he thought the country about Winnipeg perfectly hideous."

"Oh!" cried Elizabeth, as though someone had flipped her.

"You'll have to pay him for this journey, Elizabeth. Why did you ask him to come?"

"I didn't ask him, Philip. He asked himself."

"Ah! but you let him come," said the youth shrewdly. "I think, Elizabeth, you're not behaving
quite nicely."

"How am I not behaving nicely?"

"Well, you don't pay any attention to him. Do you know what he was doing while you were looking
at the cows yesterday?"

Elizabeth reluctantly confessed that she had no idea.

"Well, he was sitting by a lake--a kind of swamp--at the back of the house, reading a book."
Philip went off into a fit of laughter.

"Poor Mr. Delaine!" cried Elizabeth, though she too laughed. "It was probably Greek," she added
pensively.

"Well, that's funnier still. You know, Elizabeth, he could read Greek at home. It's because
you were neglecting him."

"Don't rub it in, Philip," said Elizabeth, flushing. Then she moved up to him and laid a coaxing
hand on his arm. "Do you know that I have been awake half the night?"

"All along of Delaine? Shall I tell him?"

"Philip, I just want you to be a dear, and hold your tongue," said Lady Merton entreatingly.
"When there's anything to tell, I'll tell you. And if I have--"

"Have what?"

"Behaved like a fool, you'll have to stand by me." An expression of pain passed over her face.

"Oh, I'll stand by you. I don't know that I want Mr. Arthur for an extra bear-leader, if that's
what you mean. You and mother are quite enough. Hullo! Here he is."

A little later Delaine and Elizabeth were sitting side by side on the garden chairs, four of
which could just be fitted into the little railed platform at the rear of the car. Elizabeth
was making herself agreeable, and doing it, for a time, with energy. Nothing also could have
been more energetic than Delaine's attempts to meet her. He had been studying Baedeker, and
he made intelligent travellers' remarks on the subject of Southern Saskatchewan. He discussed
the American "trek" into the province from the adjoining States. He understood the new public
buildings of Regina were to be really fine, only to be surpassed by those at Edmonton. He admired
the effects of light and shadow on the wide expanse; and noticed the peculiarities of the alkaline
lakes.

Meanwhile, as he became more expansive, Elizabeth contracted. One would have thought soon that
Canada had ceased to interest her at all. She led him slyly on to other topics, and presently
the real Arthur Delaine emerged. Had she heard of the most recent Etruscan excavations at Grosseto?
Wonderful! A whole host of new clues! Boni--Lanciani--the whole learned world in commotion.
A fragment of what might very possibly turn out to be a bi-lingual inscription was the last
find. Were we at last on the brink of solving the old, the eternal enigma?

He threw himself back in his chair, transformed once more into the talkative, agreeable person
that Europe knew. His black and grizzled hair, falling perpetually forward in strong waves,
made a fine frame for his grey eyes and large, well-cut features. He had a slight stammer,
which increased when he was animated, and a trick of forever pushing back the troublesome front
locks of hair.

Elizabeth listened for a long, long time, and at last--could have cried like a baby because
she was missing so much! There was a chance, she knew, all along this portion of the line,
of seeing antelope and coyotes, if only one kept one's eyes open; not to speak of the gophers--enchanting
little fellows, quite new to such travellers as she--who seemed to choose the very railway
line itself, by preference, for their burrowings and their social gatherings. Then, as she
saw, the wheat country was nearly done; a great change was in progress; her curiosity sprang
to meet it. Droves of horses and cattle began to appear at rare intervals on the vast expanse.
No white, tree-sheltered farms here, like the farms in Manitoba; but scattered at long distances,
near the railway or on the horizon, the first primitive dwellings of the new settlers--the
rude "shack" of the first year--beginnings of villages--sketches of towns.

"I have always thought the Etruscan problem the most fascinating in the whole world," cried
Delaine, with pleasant enthusiasm. "When you consider all its bearings, linguistic and historical--"

"Oh! do you see," exclaimed Elizabeth, pointing--"do you see all those lines and posts, far
out to the horizon? Do you know that all these lonely farms are connected with each other and
the railway by telephones? Mr. Anderson told me so; that some farmers actually make their fences
into telephone lines, and that from that little hut over there you can speak to Montreal when
you please? And just before I left London I was staying in a big country house, thirty miles
from Hyde Park Corner, and you couldn't telephone to London except by driving five miles to
the nearest town!"

"I wonder why that should strike you so much--the telephones, I mean?"

Delaine's tone was stiff. He had thrown himself back in his chair with folded arms, and a slight
look of patience. "After all, you know, it may only be one dull person telephoning to another
dull person--on subjects that don't matter!"

Elizabeth laughed and coloured.

"Oh! it isn't telephones in themselves. It's--" She hesitated, and began again, trying to express
herself. "When one thinks of all the haphazard of history--how nations have tumbled up, or
been dragged up, through centuries of blind horror and mistake, how wonderful to see a nation
made consciously!--before your eyes--by science and intelligence--everything thought of, everything
foreseen! First of all, this wonderful railway, driven across these deserts, against opposition,
against unbelief, by a handful of men, who risked everything, and have--perhaps--changed the
face of the world!"

She stopped smiling. In truth, her new capacity for dithyramb was no less surprising to herself
than to Delaine.

"I return to my point"--he made it not without tartness--"will the new men be adequate to the
new state?"

"Won't they?" He fancied a certain pride in her bearing. "They explained to me the other day
at Winnipeg what the Government do for the emigrants--how they guide and help them--take care
of them in sickness and in trouble, through the first years--protect them, really, even from
themselves. And one thinks how Governments have taxed, and tortured, and robbed, and fleeced--Oh,
surely, surely, the world improves!" She clasped her hands tightly on her knee, as though trying
by the physical action to restrain the feeling within. "And to see here the actual foundations
of a great state laid under your eyes, deep and strong, by men who know what it is they are
doing--to see history begun on a blank page, by men who know what they are writing--isn't it
wonderful, wonderful!"

"Dear lady!" said Delaine, smiling, "America has been dealing with emigrants for generations;
and there are people who say that corruption is rife in Canada."

But Elizabeth would not be quenched.

"We come after America--we climb on her great shoulders to see the way. But is there anything
in America to equal the suddenness of this? Twelve years ago even--in all this Northwest--practically
nothing. And then God said: 'Let there be a nation!'--and there was a nation--in a night and
a morning." She waved her hand towards the great expanse of prairie. "And as for corruption--"

"Well?" He waited maliciously.

"There is no great brew without a scum," she said laughing. "But find me a brew anywhere in
the world, of such power, with so little."

"Mr. Anderson would, I think, be pleased with you," said Delaine, drily.

Elizabeth frowned a little.

"Do you think I learnt it from him? I assure you he never rhapsodises."

"No; but he gives you the material for rhapsodies."

"And why not?" said Elizabeth indignantly. "If he didn't love the country and believe in it
he wouldn't be going into its public life. You can feel that he is Canadian through and through."

"A farmer's son, I think, from Manitoba?"

"Yes." Elizabeth's tone was a little defensive.

"Will you not sometimes--if you watch his career--regret that, with his ability, he has not
the environment--and the audience--of the Old World?"

"No, never! He will be one of the shapers of the new."

Delaine looked at her with a certain passion.

"All very well, but you don't belong to it. We can't spare you from the old."

"Oh, as for me, I'm full of vicious and corrupt habits!" put in Elizabeth hurriedly. "I am
not nearly good enough for the new!"

"Thank goodness for that!" said Delaine fervently, and, bending forward, he tried to see her
face. But Elizabeth did not allow it. She could not help flushing; but as she bent over the
side of the platform looking ahead, she announced in her gayest voice that there was a town
to be seen, and it was probably Regina.

The station at Regina, when they steamed into it, was crowded with folk, and gay with flags.
Anderson, after a conversation with the station-master, came to the car to say that the Governor-General,
Lord Wrekin, who had been addressing a meeting at Regina, was expected immediately, to take
the East-bound train; which was indeed already lying, with its steam up, on the further side
of the station, the Viceregal car in its rear.

"But there are complications. Look there!"

He pointed to a procession coming along the platform. Six men bore a coffin covered with white
flowers. Behind it came persons in black, a group of men, and one woman; then others, mostly
young men, also in mourning, and bare-headed.

As the procession passed the car, Anderson and Delaine uncovered.

Elizabeth turned a questioning look on Anderson.

"A young man from Ontario," he explained, "quite a lad. He had come here out West to a farm--to
work his way--a good, harmless little fellow--the son of a widow. A week ago a vicious horse
kicked him in the stable. He died yesterday morning. They are taking him back to Ontario to
be buried. The friends of his chapel subscribed to do it, and they brought his mother here
to nurse him. She arrived just in time. That is she."

He pointed to the bowed figure, hidden in a long crape veil. Elizabeth's eyes filled.

"But it comes awkwardly," Anderson went on, looking back along the platform--"for the Governor-General
is expected this very moment. The funeral ought to have been here half an hour ago. They seem
to have been delayed. Ah! here he is!"

"Elizabeth!--his Excellency!" cried Philip, emerging from the car.

"Hush!" Elizabeth put her finger to her lip. The young man looked at the funeral procession
in astonishment, which was just reaching the side of the empty van on the East-bound train
which was waiting, with wide-open doors, to receive the body. The bearers let down the coffin
gently to the ground, and stood waiting in hesitation. But there were no railway employés to
help them. A flurried station-master and his staff were receiving the official party. Suddenly
someone started the revival hymn, "Shall We Gather at the River?"

Elizabeth looked towards the entrance of the station. A tall and slender man had just stepped
on to the platform. It was the Governor-General, with a small staff behind him. The staff and
the station officials stood hat in hand. A few English tourists from the West-bound train hurried
up; the men uncovered, the ladies curtsied. A group of settlers' wives newly arrived from Minnesota,
who were standing near the entrance, watched the arrival with curiosity. Lord Wrekin, seeing
women in his path, saluted them; and they replied with a friendly and democratic nod. Then
suddenly the Governor-General heard the singing, and perceived the black distant crowd. He
inquired of the persons near him, and then passed on through the groups which had begun to
gather round himself, raising his hand for silence. The passengers of the West-bound train
had by now mostly descended, and pressed after him. Bare-headed, he stood behind the mourners
while the hymn proceeded, and the coffin was lifted and placed in the car with the wreaths
round it. The mother clung a moment to the side of the door, unconsciously resisting those
who tried to lead her away. The kind grey eyes of the Governor-General rested upon her, but
he made no effort to approach or speak to her. Only his stillness kept the crowd still.

Elizabeth at her window watched the scene--the tall figure of his Excellency--the bowed woman--the
throng of officials and of mourners. Over the head of the Governor-General a couple of flags
swelled in a light breeze--the Union Jack and the Maple Leaf; beyond the heads of the crowd
there was a distant glimpse of the barracks of the Mounted Police; and then boundless prairie
and floating cloud.

At last the mother yielded, and was led to the carriage behind the coffin. Gently, with bent
head, Lord Wrekin made his way to her. But no one heard what passed between them. Then, silently,
the funeral crowd dispersed, and another crowd--of officials and business men--claimed the
Governor-General. Standing in its midst, he turned for a moment to scan the West-bound train.

"Ah, Lady Merton!" He had perceived the car and Elizabeth's face at the window, and he hastened
across to speak to her. They were old friends in England, and they had already met in Ottawa.

"So I find you on your travels! Well?"

His look, gay and vivacious as a boy's, interrogated hers. Elizabeth stammered a few words
in praise of Canada. But her eyes were still wet, and the Governor-General perceived it.

"That was touching?" he said. "To die in your teens in this country!--just as the curtain is
up and the play begins--hard! Hullo, Anderson!"

The great man extended a cordial hand, chaffed Philip a little, gave Lady Merton some hurried
but very precise directions as to what she was to see--and whom--at Vancouver and Pretoria.
"You must see So-and-so and So-and-so--great friends of mine. D----'ll tell you all about the
lumbering. Get somebody to show you the Chinese quarter. And there's a splendid old fellow--a
C.P.R. man--did some of the prospecting for the railway up North, toward the Yellowhead. Never
heard such tales; I could have sat up all night." He hastily scribbled a name on a card and
gave it to Elizabeth. "Good-bye--good-bye!"

He hastened off, but they saw him standing a few moments longer on the platform, the centre
of a group of provincial politicians, farmers, railway superintendents, and others--his hat
on the back of his head, his pleasant laugh ringing every now and then above the clatter of
talk. Then came departure, and at the last moment he jumped into his carriage, talking and
talked to, almost till it had left the platform.

Anderson hailed a farming acquaintance.

"Well? What has the Governor-General been doing?"

"Speaking at a Farmers' Conference. Awful shindy yesterday!--between the farmers and the millers.
Row about the elevators. The farmers want the Dominion to own 'em--vow they're cheated and
bullied, and all the rest of it. Row about the railway, too. Shortage of cars; you know the
old story. A regular wasp's nest, the whole thing! Well, the Governor-General came this morning,
and everything's blown over! Can't remember what he said, but we're all sure somebody's going
to do something. Hope you know how he does it!--I don't."

Anderson laughed as he sat down beside Elizabeth, and the train began to move.

"We seem to send you the right men!" she said, smiling--with a little English conceit that
became her.

The train left the station. As it did so, an old man in the first emigrant car, who, during
the wait at Regina, had appeared to be asleep in a corner, with a battered slouch hat drawn
down over his eyes and face, stealthily moved to the window, and looked back upon the now empty
platform.

Some hours later Anderson was still sitting beside Elizabeth. They were in Southern Alberta.
The June day had darkened. And for the first time Elizabeth felt the chill and loneliness of
the prairies, where as yet she had only felt their exhilaration. A fierce wind was sweeping
over the boundless land, with showers in its train. The signs of habitation became scantier,
the farms fewer. Bunches of horses and herds of cattle widely scattered over the endless grassy
plains--the brown lines of the ploughed fire-guards running beside the railway--the bents of
winter grass, white in the storm-light, bleaching the rolling surface of the ground, till the
darkness of some cloud-shadow absorbed them; these things breathed--of a sudden--wildness and
desolation. It seemed as though man could no longer cope with the mere vastness of the earth--an
earth without rivers or trees, too visibly naked and measureless.

"At last I am afraid of it!" said Elizabeth, shivering in her fur coat, with a little motion
of her hand toward the plain. "And what must it be in winter!"

Anderson laughed.

"The winter is much milder here than in Manitoba! Radiant sunshine day after day--and the warm
chinook-wind. And it is precisely here that the railway lands are selling at a higher price
for the moment than anywhere else, and that settlers are rushing in. Look there!"

Elizabeth peered through the gloom, and saw the gleam of water. The train ran along beside
it for a minute or two, then the gathering darkness seemed to swallow it up.

"A river?"

"No, a canal, fed from the Bow River--far ahead of us. We are in the irrigation belt--and in
the next few years thousands of people will settle here. Give the land water--the wheat follows!
South and North, even now, the wheat is spreading and driving out the ranchers. Irrigation
is the secret. We are mastering it! And you thought"--he looked at her with amusement and a
kind of triumph--"that the country had mastered us?"

There was something in his voice and eyes, as though not he spoke, but a nation through him.
"Splendid!" was the word that rose in Elizabeth's mind; and a thrill ran with it.

The gloom of the afternoon deepened. The showers increased. But Elizabeth could not be prevailed
upon to go in. In the car Delaine and Philip were playing dominoes, in despair of anything
more amusing. Yerkes was giving his great mind to the dinner which was to be the consolation
of Philip's day.

Meanwhile Elizabeth kept Anderson talking. That was her great gift. She was the best of listeners.
Thus led on he could not help himself, any more than he had been able to help himself on the
afternoon of the sink-hole. He had meant to hold himself strictly in hand with this too attractive
Englishwoman. On the contrary, he had never yet poured out so frankly to mortal ear the inmost
dreams and hopes which fill the ablest minds of Canada--dreams half imagination, half science;
and hopes which, yesterday romance, become reality to-morrow.

He showed her, for instance, the great Government farms as they passed them, standing white
and trim upon the prairie, and bade her think of the busy brains at work there--magicians conjuring
new wheats that will ripen before the earliest frosts, and so draw onward the warm tide of
human life over vast regions now desolate; or trees that will stand firm against the prairie
winds, and in the centuries to come turn this bare and boundless earth, this sea-floor of a
primeval ocean, which is now Western Canada, into a garden of the Lord. Or from the epic of
the soil, he would slip on to the human epic bound up with it--tale after tale of life in the
ranching country, and of the emigration now pouring into Alberta--witched out of him by this
delicately eager face, these lovely listening eyes. And here, in spite of his blunt, simple
speech, came out the deeper notes of feeling, feeling richly steeped in those "mortal things"--earthy,
tender, humorous, or terrible--which make up human fate.

Had he talked like this to the Catholic girl in Quebec? And yet she had renounced him? She
had never loved him, of course! To love this man would be to cleave to him.

Once, in a lifting of the shadows of the prairie, Elizabeth saw a group of antelope standing
only a few hundred yards from the train, tranquilly indifferent, their branching horns clear
in a pallid ray of light; and once a prairie-wolf, solitary and motionless; and once, as the
train moved off after a stoppage, an old badger leisurely shambling off the line itself. And
once, too, amid a driving storm-shower, and what seemed to her unbroken formless solitudes,
suddenly, a tent by the railway side, and the blaze of a fire; and as the train slowly passed,
three men--lads rather--emerging to laugh and beckon to it. The tent, the fire, the gay challenge
of the young faces and the English voices, ringed by darkness and wild weather, brought the
tears back to Elizabeth's eyes, she scarcely knew why.

"Settlers, in their first year," said Anderson, smiling, as he waved back again.

But, to Elizabeth, it seemed a parable of the new Canada.

An hour later, amid a lightening of the clouds over the West, that spread a watery gold over
the prairie, Anderson sprang to his feet.

"The Rockies!"

And there, a hundred miles away, peering over the edge of the land, ran from north to south
a vast chain of snow peaks, and Elizabeth saw at last that even the prairies have an end.

The car was shunted at Calgary, in order that its occupants might enjoy a peaceful night. When
she found herself alone in her tiny room, Elizabeth stood for a while before her reflection
in the glass. Her eyes were frowning and distressed; her cheeks glowed. Arthur Delaine, her
old friend, had bade her a cold good night, and she knew well enough that--from him--she deserved
it. "Yet I gave him the whole morning," she pleaded with herself. "I did my best. But oh, why,
why did I ever let him come!"

And even in the comparative quiet of the car at rest, she could not sleep; so quickened were
all her pulses, and so vivid the memories of the day.

CHAPTER VI

Arthur Delaine was strolling and smoking on the broad wooden balcony, which in the rear of
the hotel at Banff overlooks a wide scene of alp and water. The splendid Bow River comes swirling
past the hotel, on its rush from the high mountains to the plains of Saskatchewan. Craggy mountains
drop almost to the river's edge on one side; on the other, pine woods mask the railway and
the hills; while in the distance shine the snow-peaks of the Rockies. It is the gateway of
the mountains, fair and widely spaced, as becomes their dignity.

Delaine, however, was not observing the scenery. He was entirely absorbed by reflection on
his own affairs. The party had now been stationary for three or four days at Banff, enjoying
the comforts of hotel life. The travelling companion on whom Delaine had not calculated in
joining Lady Merton and her brother--Mr. George Anderson--had taken his leave, temporarily,
at Calgary. In thirty-six hours, however, he had reappeared. It seemed that the construction
work in which he was engaged in the C---- valley did not urgently require his presence; that
his position towards the railway, with which he was about to sever his official connection,
was one of great freedom and influence, owing, no doubt, to the services he had been able to
render it the year before. He was, in fact, master of his time, and meant to spend it apparently
in making Lady Merton's tour agreeable.

For himself, Delaine could only feel that the advent of this stranger had spoilt the whole
situation. It seemed now as though Elizabeth and her brother could not get on without him.
As he leant over the railing of the balcony, Delaine could see far below, in the wood, the
flutter of a white dress. It belonged to Lady Merton, and the man beside her was George Anderson.
He had been arranging their walks and expeditions for the last four days, and was now about
to accompany the English travellers on a special journey with a special engine through the
Kicking Horse Pass and back, a pleasure suggested by the kindness of the railway authorities.

It was true that he had at one time been actively engaged on the important engineering work
now in progress in the pass; and Lady Merton could not, therefore, have found a better showman.
But why any showman at all? What did she know about this man who had sprung so rapidly into
intimacy with herself and her brother? Yet Delaine could not honestly accuse him of presuming
on a chance acquaintance, since it was not to be denied that it was Philip Gaddesden himself,
who had taken an invalid's capricious liking to the tall, fair-haired fellow, and had urgently
requested--almost forced him to come back to them.

Delaine was not a little bruised in spirit, and beginning to be angry. During the solitary
day he had been alone with them Elizabeth had been kindness and complaisance itself. But instead
of that closer acquaintance, that opportunity for a gradual and delightful courtship on which
he had reckoned, when the restraint of watching eyes and neighbourly tongues should be removed,
he was conscious that he had never been so remote from her during the preceding winter at home,
as he was now that he had journeyed six thousand miles simply and solely on the chance of proposing
to her. He could not understand how anything so disastrous, and apparently so final, could
have happened to him in one short week! Lady Merton--he saw quite plainly--did not mean him
to propose to her, if she could possibly avoid it. She kept Philip with her, and gave no opportunities.
And always, as before, she was possessed and bewitched by Canada! Moreover, the Chief Justice
and the French Canadian, Mariette, had turned up at the hotel two days before, on their way
to Vancouver. Elizabeth had been sitting, figuratively, at the feet of both of them ever since;
and both had accepted an invitation to join in the Kicking Horse party, and were delaying their
journey West accordingly.

Instead of solitude, therefore, Delaine was aware of a most troublesome amount of society.
Aware also, deep down, that some test he resented but could not escape had been applied to
him on this journey, by fortune--and Elizabeth!--and that he was not standing it well. And
the worst of it was that as his discouragement in the matter of Lady Merton increased, so also
did his distaste for this raw, new country, without associations, without art, without antiquities,
in which he should never, never have chosen to spend one of his summers of this short life,
but for the charms of Elizabeth! And the more boredom he was conscious of, the less congenial
and sympathetic, naturally, did he become as a companion for Lady Merton. Of this he was dismally
aware. Well! he hoped, bitterly, that she knew what she was about, and could take care of herself.
This man she had made friends with was good-looking and, by his record, possessed ability.
He had fairly gentlemanly manners, also; though, in Delaine's opinion, he was too self-confident
on his own account, and too boastful on Canada's, But he was a man of humble origin, son of
a farmer who seemed, by the way, to be dead; and grandson, so Delaine had heard him say, through
his mother, of one of the Selkirk settlers of 1812--no doubt of some Scotch gillie or shepherd.
Such a person, in England, would have no claim whatever to the intimate society of Elizabeth
Merton. Yet here she was alone, really without protection--for what use was this young, scatter-brained
brother?--herself only twenty-seven, and so charming? so much prettier than she had ever seemed
to be at home. It was a dangerous situation--a situation to which she ought not to have been
exposed. Delaine had always believed her sensitive and fastidious; and in his belief all women
should be sensitive and fastidious, especially as to who are, and who are not, their social
equals. But it was clear he had not quite understood her. And this man whom they had picked
up was undoubtedly handsome, strong and masterful, of the kind that the natural woman admires.
But then he--Delaine--had never thought of Elizabeth Merton as the natural woman. There lay
the disappointment.

What was his own course to be? He believed himself defeated, but to show any angry consciousness
of it would be to make life very uncomfortable in future, seeing that he and the Gaddesdens
were inevitably neighbours and old friends. After all, he had not committed himself beyond
repair. Why not resume the friendly relation which had meant so much to him before other ideas
had entered in? Ah! it was no longer easy. The distress of which he was conscious had some
deep roots. He must marry--the estate demanded it. But his temperament was invincibly cautious;
his mind moved slowly. How was he to begin upon any fresh quest? His quiet pursuit of Elizabeth
had come about naturally and by degrees. Propinquity had done it. And now that his hopes were
dashed, he could not imagine how he was to find any other chance; for, as a rule, he was timid
and hesitating with women. As he hung, in his depression, over the river, this man of forty
envisaged--suddenly and not so far away--old age and loneliness. A keen and peevish resentment
took possession of him.

Lady Merton and Anderson began to ascend a long flight of steps leading from the garden path
below to the balcony where Delaine stood. Elizabeth waved to him with smiles, and he must perforce
watch her as she mounted side by side with the fair-haired Canadian.

"Oh! such delightful plans!" she said, as she sank out of breath into a seat. "We have ordered
the engine for two o'clock. Please observe, Mr. Arthur. Never again in this mortal life shall
I be able to 'order' an engine for two o'clock!--and one of these C.P.R. engines, too, great
splendid fellows! We go down the pass, and take tea at Field; and come up the pass again this
evening, to dine and sleep at Laggan. As we descend, the engine goes in front to hold us back;
and when we ascend, it goes behind to push us up; and I understand that the hill is even steeper"--she
bent forward, laughing, to Delaine, appealing to their common North Country recollections--"than
the Shap incline!"

"Too steep, I gather," said Delaine, "to be altogether safe." His tone was sharp. He stood
with his back to the view, looking from Elizabeth to her companion.

Anderson turned.

"As we manage it, it is perfectly safe! But it costs us too much to make it safe. That's the
reason for the new bit of line."

Elizabeth turned away uncomfortably, conscious again, as she had often been before, of the
jarring between the two men.

At two o'clock the car and the engine were ready, and Yerkes received them at the station beaming
with smiles. According to him, the privilege allowed them was all his doing, and he was exceedingly
jealous of any claim of Anderson's in the matter.

"You come to me, my lady, if you want anything. Last year I ran a Russian princess through--official.
'You take care of the Grand Duchess, Yerkes,' they says to me at Montreal; for they know there
isn't anybody on the line they can trust with a lady as they can me. Of course, I couldn't
help her faintin' at the high bridges, going up Rogers Pass; that wasn't none of my fault!"

"Faint--at bridges!" said Elizabeth with scorn. "I never heard of anybody doing such a thing,
Yerkes."

"Ah! you wait till you see 'em, my lady," said Yerkes, grinning.

The day was radiant, and even Philip, as they started from Banff station, was in a Canadian
mood. So far he had been quite cheerful and good-tempered, though not, to Elizabeth's anxious
eye, much more robust yet than when they had left England. He smoked far too much, and Elizabeth
wished devoutly that Yerkes would not supply him so liberally with whisky and champagne. But
Philip was not easily controlled. The very decided fancy, however, which he had lately taken
for George Anderson had enabled Elizabeth, in one or two instances, to manage him more effectively.
The night they arrived at Calgary, the lad had had a wild desire to go off on a moonlight drive
across the prairies to a ranch worked by an old Cambridge friend of his. The night was cold,
and he was evidently tired by the long journey from Winnipeg. Elizabeth was in despair, but
could not move him at all. Then Anderson had intervened; had found somehow and somewhere a
trapper just in from the mountains with a wonderful "catch" of fox and marten; and in the amusement
of turning over a bundle of magnificent furs, and of buying something straight from the hunter
for his mother, the youth had forgotten his waywardness. Behind his back, Elizabeth had warmly
thanked her lieutenant.

"He only wanted a little distraction," Anderson had said, with a shy smile, as though he both
liked and disliked her thanks. And then, impulsively, she had told him a good deal about Philip
and his illness, and their mother, and the old house in Cumberland. She, of all persons, to
be so communicative about the family affairs to a stranger! Was it that two days in a private
car in Canada went as far as a month's acquaintance elsewhere?

Another passenger had been introduced to Lady Merton by Anderson, an hour before the departure
of the car, and had made such a pleasant impression on her that he also had been asked to join
the party, and had very gladly consented. This was the American, Mr. Val Morton, now the official
receiver, so Elizabeth understood, of a great railway system in the middle west of the United
States. The railway had been handed over to him in a bankrupt condition. His energy and probity
were engaged in pulling it through. More connections between it and the Albertan railways were
required; and he was in Canada looking round and negotiating. He was already known to the Chief
Justice and Mariette, and Elizabeth fell quickly in love with his white hair, his black eyes,
his rapier-like slenderness and keenness, and that pleasant mingling in him--so common in the
men of his race--of the dry shrewdness of the financier with a kind of headlong courtesy to women.

On sped the car through the gate of the Rockies. The mountains grew deeper, the snows deeper
against the blue, the air more dazzling, the forests closer, breathing balm into the sunshine.

Suddenly the car slackened and stopped. No sign of a station. Only a rustic archway, on which
was written "The Great Divide," and beneath the archway two small brooklets issuing, one flowing
to the right, the other to the left.

They all left the car and stood round the tiny streams. They were on the watershed. The water
in the one streamlet flowed to the Atlantic, that in its fellow to the Pacific.

Eternal parable of small beginnings and vast fates! But in this setting of untrodden mountains,
and beside this railway which now for a few short years had been running its parlour and dining
cars, its telegraphs and electric lights and hotels, a winding thread of life and civilisation,
through the lonely and savage splendours of snow-peak and rock, transforming day by day the
destinies of Canada--the parable became a truth, proved upon the pulses of men.

The party sat down on the grass beside the bright, rippling water, and Yerkes brought them
coffee. While they were taking it, the two engine-drivers descended from the cab of the engine
and began to gather a few flowers and twigs from spring bushes that grew near. They put them
together and offered them to Lady Merton. She, going to speak to them, found that they were
English and North Country.

"Philip!--Mr. Arthur!--they come from our side of Carlisle!"

Philip looked up with a careless nod and smile. Delaine rose and went to join her. A lively
conversation sprang up between her and the two men. They were, it seemed, a stalwart pair of
friends, kinsmen indeed, who generally worked together, and were now entrusted with some of
the most important work on the most difficult sections of the line. But they were not going
to spend all their days on the line--not they! Like everybody in the West, they had their eyes
on the land. Upon a particular district of it, moreover, in Northern Alberta, not yet surveyed
or settled. But they were watching it, and as soon as the "steel gang" of a projected railway
came within measurable distance they meant to claim their sections and work their land together.

When the conversation came to an end and Elizabeth, who with her companions had been strolling
along the line a little in front of the train, turned back towards her party, Delaine looked
down upon her, at once anxious to strike the right note, and moodily despondent of doing it.

"Evidently, two very good fellows!" he said in his rich, ponderous voice. "You gave them a
great pleasure by going to talk to them."

"I?" cried Elizabeth. "They are a perfect pair of gentlemen!--and it is very kind of them to
drive us!"

Delaine laughed uneasily.

"The gradations here are bewildering--or rather the absence of gradations."

"One gets down to the real thing," said Elizabeth, rather hotly.

Delaine laughed again, with a touch of bitterness.

"The real thing? What kind of reality? There are all sorts."

Elizabeth was suddenly conscious of a soreness in his tone. She tried to walk warily.

"I was only thinking," she protested, "of the chances a man gets in this country of showing
what is in him."

"Remember, too," said Delaine, with spirit, "the chances that he misses!"

"The chances that belong only to the old countries? I am rather bored with them!" said Elizabeth
flippantly.

Delaine forced a smile.

"Poor Old World! I wonder if you will ever be fair to it again, or--or to the people bound
up with it!"

She looked at him, a little discomposed, and said, smiling:

"Wait till you meet me next in Rome!"

"Shall I ever meet you again in Rome?" he replied, under his breath, as though involuntarily.

As he spoke he made a determined pause, a stone's throw from the rippling stream that marks
the watershed; and Elizabeth must needs pause with him. Beyond the stream, Philip sat lounging
among rugs and cushions brought from the car, Anderson and the American beside him. Anderson's
fair, uncovered head and broad shoulders were strongly thrown out against the glistening snows
of the background. Upon the three typical figures--the frail English boy--the Canadian--the
spare New Yorker--there shone an indescribable brilliance of light. The energy of the mountain
sunshine and the mountain air seemed to throb and quiver through the persons talking--through
Anderson's face, and his eyes fixed upon Elizabeth--through the sunlit water--the sparkling
grasses--the shimmering spectacle of mountain and summer cloud that begirt them.

"Dear Mr. Arthur, of course we shall meet again in Rome!" said Elizabeth, rosy, and not knowing
in truth what to say. "This place has turned my head a little!"--she looked round her, raising
her hand to the spectacle as though in pretty appeal to him to share her own exhilaration--"but
it will be all over so soon--and you know I don't forget old friends--or old pleasures."

Her voice wavered a little. He looked at her, with parted lips, and a rather hostile, heated
expression; then drew back, alarmed at his own temerity.

"Of course I know it! You must forgive a bookworm his grumble. Shall I help you over the stream?"

But she stepped across the tiny streamlet without giving him her hand.

As they later rejoined the party, Morton, the Chief Justice, and Mariette returned from a saunter
in the course of which they too had been chatting to the engine-drivers.

"I know the part of the country those men want," the American was saying. "I was all over Alberta
last fall--part of it in a motor car. We jumped about those stubble-fields in a way to make
a leopard jealous! Every bone in my body was sore for weeks afterwards. But it was worth while.
That's a country!"--he threw up his hands. "I was at Edmonton on the day when the last Government
lands, the odd numbers, were thrown open. I saw the siege of the land offices, the rush of
the new population. Ah, well, of course, we're used to such scenes in the States. There's a
great trek going on now in our own Southwest. But when that's over, our free land is done.
Canada will have the handling of the last batch on this planet."

"If Canada by that time is not America," said Mariette, drily.

The American digested the remark.

"Well," he said, at last, with a smile, "if I were a Canadian, perhaps I should be a bit nervous."

Thereupon, Mariette with great animation developed his theme of the "American invasion." Winnipeg
was one danger spot, British Columbia another. The "peaceful penetration," both of men and
capital, was going on so rapidly that a movement for annexation, were it once started in certain
districts of Canada, might be irresistible. The harsh and powerful face of the speaker became
transfigured; one divined in him some hidden motive which was driving him to contest and belittle
the main currents and sympathies about him. He spoke as a prophet, but the faith which envenomed
the prophecy lay far out of sight.

Anderson took it quietly. The Chief Justice smiled.

"It might have been," he said, "it might have been! This railroad has made the difference."
He stretched out his hand towards the line and the pass. "Twenty years ago, I came over this
ground with the first party that ever pushed through Rogers Pass and down the Illecillewaet
Valley to the Pacific. We camped just about here for the night. And in the evening I was sitting
by myself on the slopes of that mountain opposite"--he raised his hand--"looking at the railway
camps below me, and the first rough line that had been cut through the forests. And I thought
of the day when the trains would be going backwards and forwards, and these nameless valleys
and peaks would become the playground of Canada and America. But what I didn't see was the
shade of England looking on!--England, whose greater destiny was being decided by those gangs
of workmen below me, and the thousands of workmen behind me, busy night and day in bridging
the gap between east and west. Traffic from north and south"--he turned towards the American--"that
meant, for your Northwest, fusion with our Northwest; traffic from east to west--that meant
England, and the English Sisterhood of States! And that, for the moment, I didn't see."

"Shall I quote you something I found in an Edmonton paper the other day?" said Anderson, raising
his head from where he lay, looking down into the grass. And with his smiling, intent gaze
fixed on the American, he recited:

     Land of the sweeping eagle, your goal is not our goal!
     For the ages have taught that the North and the South breed
         difference of soul.
     We toiled for years in the snow and the night, because we
         believed in the spring,
     And the mother who cheered us first, shall be first at the
         banquetting!
     The grey old mother, the dear old mother, who taught us the
         note we sing!

The American laughed.

"A bit raw, like some of your prairie towns; but it hits the nail. I dare say we have missed
our bargain. What matter! Our own chunk is as big as we can chew."

There was a moment's silence. Elizabeth's eyes were shining; even Philip sat open-mouthed and
dumb, staring at Anderson.

In the background Delaine waited, grudgingly expectant, for the turn of Elizabeth's head, and
the spark of consciousness passing between the two faces which he had learnt to watch. It came--a
flash of some high sympathy--involuntary, lasting but a moment. Then Mariette threw out:

"And in the end, what are you going to make of it? A replica of Europe, or America?--a money-grubbing
civilisation with no faith but the dollar? If so, we shall have had the great chance of history--and
lost it!"

"We shan't lose it," said Anderson, "unless the gods mock us."

"Why not?" said Mariette sombrely. "Nations have gone mad before now."

"Ah!--prophesy, prophesy!" said the Chief Justice sadly. "All very well for you young men,
but for us, who are passing away! Here we are at the birth. Shall we never, in any state of
being, know the end? I have never felt so bitterly as I do now the limitations of our knowledge
and our life."

No one answered him. But Elizabeth looking up saw the aspect of Mariette--the aspect of a thinker
and a mystic--slowly relax. Its harshness became serenity, its bitterness peace. And with her
quick feeling she guessed that the lament of the Chief Justice had only awakened in the religious
mind the typical religious cry, "Thou, Lord, art the Eternal, and Thy years shall not fail."

At Field, where a most friendly inn shelters under the great shoulders of Mount Stephen, they
left the car a while, took tea in the hotel, and wandered through the woods below it. All the
afternoon, Elizabeth had shown a most delicate and friendly consideration for Delaine. She
had turned the conversation often in his direction and on his subjects, had placed him by her
side at tea, and in general had more than done her duty by him. To no purpose. Delaine saw
himself as the condemned man to whom indulgences are granted before execution. She would probably
have done none of these things if there had been any real chance for him.

But in the walk after tea, Anderson and Lady Merton drifted together. There had been so far
a curious effort on both their parts to avoid each other's company. But now the Chief Justice
and Delaine had foregathered; Philip was lounging and smoking on the balcony of the hotel with
a visitor there, an old Etonian fishing and climbing in the Rockies for health, whom they had
chanced upon at tea. Mariette, after one glance at the company, especially at Elizabeth and
Anderson, had turned aside into the woods by himself.

They crossed the river and strolled up the road to Emerald Lake. Over the superb valley to
their left hung the great snowy mass, glistening and sunlit, of Mount Stephen; far to the West
the jagged peaks of the Van Home range shot up into the golden air; on the flat beside the
river vivid patches of some crimson flower, new to Elizabeth's eyes, caught the sloping light;
and the voice of a swollen river pursued them.

They began to talk, this time of England. Anderson asked many questions as to English politics
and personalities. And she, to please him, chattered of great people and events, of scenes
and leaders in Parliament, of diplomats and royalties; all the gossip of the moment, in fact,
fluttering round the principal figures of English and European politics. It was the talk most
natural to her; the talk of the world she knew best; and as Elizabeth was full of shrewdness
and natural salt, without a trace of malice, no more at least than a woman should have--to
borrow the saying about Wilkes and his squint--her chatter was generally in request, and she
knew it.

But Anderson, though he had led up to it, did not apparently enjoy it; on the contrary, she
felt him gradually withdrawing and cooling, becoming a little dry and caustic, even satirical,
as on the first afternoon of their acquaintance. So that after a while her gossip flagged;
since the game wants two to play it. Then Anderson walked on with a furrowed brow, and raised
colour; and she could not imagine what had been done or said to annoy him.

She could only try to lead him back to Canada. But she got little or no response.

"Our politics must seem to you splashes in a water-butt," he said impatiently, "after London
and Europe."

"A pretty big water-butt!"

"Size makes no difference." Elizabeth's lips twitched as she remembered Arthur Delaine's similar
protests; but she kept her countenance, and merely worked the harder to pull her companion
out of this odd pit of ill-humour into which he had fallen. And in the end she succeeded; he
repented, and let her manage him as she would. And whether it was the influence of this hidden
action and reaction between their minds, or of the perfumed June day breathing on them from
the pines, or of the giant splendour of Mount Burgess, rising sheer in front of them out of
the dark avenue of the forest, cannot be told; but, at least, they became more intimate than
they had yet been, more deeply interesting each to the other. In his thoughts and ideals she
found increasing fascination; her curiosity, her friendly and womanly curiosity, grew with
satisfaction. His view of life was often harsh or melancholy; but there was never a false nor
a mean note.

Yet before the walk was done he had startled her. As they turned back towards Field, and were
in the shadows of the pines, he said, with abrupt decision:

"Will you forgive me if I say something?"

She looked up surprised.

"Don't let your brother drink so much champagne!"

The colour rushed into Elizabeth's face. She drew herself up, conscious of sharp pain, but
also of anger. A stranger, who had not yet known them ten days! But she met an expression on
his face, timid and yet passionately resolved, which arrested her.

"I really don't know what you mean, Mr. Anderson!" she said proudly.

"I thought I had seen you anxious. I should be anxious if I were you," he went on hurriedly.
"He has been ill, and is not quite master of himself. That is always the critical moment. He
is a charming fellow--you must be devoted to him. For God's sake, don't let him ruin himself
body and soul!"

Elizabeth was dumbfounded. The tears rushed into her eyes, her voice choked in her throat.
She must, she would defend her brother. Then she thought of the dinner of the night before,
and the night before that--of the wine bill at Winnipeg and Toronto. Her colour faded away;
her heart sank; but it still seemed to her an outrage that he should have dared to speak of
it. He spoke, however, before she could.

"Forgive me," he said, recovering his self-control. "I know it must seem mere insolence on
my part. But I can't help it--I can't look on at such a thing, silently. May I explain? Please
permit me! I told you"--his voice changed--"my mother and sisters had been burnt to death.
I adored my mother. She was everything to me. She brought us up with infinite courage, though
she was a very frail woman. In those days a farm in Manitoba was a much harder struggle than
it is now. Yet she never complained; she was always cheerful; always at work. But--my father
drank! It came upon him as a young man--after an illness. It got worse as he grew older. Every
bit of prosperity that came to us, he drank away; he would have ruined us again and again,
but for my mother. And at last he murdered her--her and my poor sisters!"

Elizabeth made a sound of horror.

"Oh, there was no intention to murder," said Anderson bitterly. "He merely sat up drinking
one winter night with a couple of whisky bottles beside him. Then in the morning he was awakened
by the cold; the fire had gone out. He stumbled out to get the can of coal-oil from the stable,
still dazed with drink, brought it in and poured some on the wood. Some more wood was wanted.
He went out to fetch it, leaving his candle alight, a broken end in a rickety candlestick,
on the floor beside the coal-oil. When he got to the stable it was warm and comfortable; he
forgot what he had come for, fell down on a bundle of straw, and went into a dead sleep. The
candle must have fallen over into the oil, the oil exploded, and in a few seconds the wooden
house was in flames. By the time I came rushing back from the slough where I had been breaking
the ice for water, the roof had already fallen in. My poor mother and two of the children had
evidently tried to escape by the stairway and had perished there; the two others were burnt
in their beds."

"And your father?" murmured Elizabeth, unable to take her eyes from the speaker.

"I woke him in the stable, and told him what had happened. Bit by bit I got out of him what
he'd done. And then I said to him, 'Now choose!--either you go, or we. After the funeral, the
boys and I have done with you. You can't force us to go on living with you. We will kill ourselves
first. Either you stay here, and we go into Winnipeg; or you can sell the stock, take the money,
and go. We'll work the farm.' He swore at me, but I told him he'd find we'd made up our minds.
And a week later, he disappeared. He had sold the stock, and left us the burnt walls and the land."

"And you've never seen him since?"

"Never."

"You believe him dead?"

"I know that he died--in the first Yukon rush of ten years ago. I tracked him there, shortly
afterwards. He was probably killed in a scuffle with some miners as drunken as himself."

There was a silence, which he broke very humbly.

"Do you forgive me? I know I am not sane on this point. I believe I have spoilt your day."

She looked up, her eyes swimming in tears, and held out her hand.

"It's nothing, you know," she said, trying to smile--"in our case. Philip is such a baby."

"I know; but look after him!" he said earnestly, as he grasped it.

The trees thinned, and voices approached. They emerged from the forest, and found themselves
hailed by the Chief Justice.

The journey up the pass was even more wonderful than the journey down. Sunset lights lay on
the forests, on the glorious lonely mountains, and on the valley of the Yoho, roadless and
houseless now, but soon to be as famous through the world as Grindelwald or Chamounix. They
dismounted and explored the great camps of workmen in the pass; they watched the boiling of
the stream, which had carved the path of the railway; they gathered white dogwood, and yellow
snow-lilies, and red painter's-brush.

Elizabeth and Anderson hardly spoke to each other. She talked a great deal with Delaine, and
Mariette held a somewhat acid dispute with her on modern French books--Loti, Anatole France,
Zola--authors whom his soul loathed.

But the day had forged a lasting bond between Anderson and Elizabeth, and they knew it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night rose clear and cold, with stars shining on the snow. Delaine, who with Anderson had
found quarters in one of Laggan's handful of houses, went out to stroll and smoke alone, before
turning into bed. He walked along the railway line towards Banff, in bitterness of soul, debating
with himself whether he could possibly leave the party at once.

When he was well out of sight of the station and the houses, he became aware of a man persistently
following him, and not without a hasty grip on the stout stick he carried, he turned at last
to confront him.

"What do you want with me? You seem to be following me."

"Are you Mr. Arthur Delaine?" said a thick voice.

"That is my name. What do you want?"

"And you be lodging to-night in the same house with Mr. George Anderson?"

"I am. What's that to you?"

"Well, I want twenty minutes' talk with you," said the voice, after a pause. The accent was
Scotch. In the darkness Delaine dimly perceived an old and bent man standing before him, who
seemed to sway and totter as he leant upon his stick.

"I cannot imagine, sir, why you should want anything of the kind." And he turned to pursue
his walk. The old man kept up with him, and presently said something which brought Delaine
to a sudden stop of astonishment. He stood there listening for a few minutes, transfixed, and
finally, turning round, he allowed his strange companion to walk slowly beside him back to Laggan.

CHAPTER VII

Oh! the freshness of the morning on Lake Louise!

It was barely eight o'clock, yet Elizabeth Merton had already taken her coffee on the hotel
verandah, and was out wandering by herself. The hotel, which is nearly six thousand feet above
the sea, had only just been opened for its summer guests, and Elizabeth and her party were
its first inmates. Anderson indeed had arranged their coming, and was to have brought them
hither himself. But on the night of the party's return to Laggan he had been hastily summoned
by telegraph to a consultation of engineers on a difficult matter of railway grading in the
Kootenay district. Delaine, knocking at his door in the morning, had found him flown. A note
for Lady Merton explained his flight, gave all directions for the drive to Lake Louise, and
expressed his hope to be with them again as expeditiously as possible. Three days had now elapsed
since he had left them. Delaine, rather to Elizabeth's astonishment, had once or twice inquired
when he might be expected to return.

Elizabeth found a little path by the lake shore, and pursued it a short way; but presently
the splendour and the beauty overpowered her; her feet paused of themselves. She sat down on
a jutting promontory of rock, and lost herself in the forms and hues of the morning. In front
of her rose a wall of glacier sheer out of the water and thousands of feet above the lake,
into the clear brilliance of the sky. On either side of its dazzling whiteness, mountains of
rose-coloured rock, fledged with pine, fell steeply to the water's edge, enclosing and holding
up the glacier; and vast rock pinnacles of a paler rose, melting into gold, broke, here and
there, the gleaming splendour of the ice. The sun, just topping the great basin, kindled the
ice surfaces, and all the glistening pinks and yellows, the pale purples and blood-crimsons
of the rocks, to flame and splendour; while the shadows of the coolest azure still held the
hollows and caves of the glacier. Deep in the motionless lake, the shining snows repeated themselves,
so also the rose-red rocks, the blue shadows, the dark buttressing crags with their pines.
Height beyond height, glory beyond glory--from the reality above, the eye descended to its
lovelier image below, which lay there, enchanted and insubstantial, Nature's dream of itself.

The sky was pure light; the air pure fragrance. Heavy dews dripped from the pines and the moss,
and sparkled in the sun. Beside Elizabeth, under a group of pines, lay a bed of snow-lilies,
their golden heads dew-drenched, waiting for the touch of the morning, waiting, too--so she
thought--for that Canadian poet who will yet place them in English verse beside the daffodils
of Westmoreland.

She could hardly breathe for delight. The Alps, whether in their Swiss or Italian aspects,
were dear and familiar to her. She climbed nimbly and well; and her senses knew the magic of
high places. But never surely had even travelled eyes beheld a nobler fantasy of Nature than
that composed by these snows and forests of Lake Louise; such rocks of opal and pearl; such
dark gradations of splendour in calm water; such balanced intricacy and harmony in the building
of this ice-palace that reared its majesty above the lake; such a beauty of subordinate and
converging outline in the supporting mountains on either hand; as though the Earth Spirit had
lingered on his work, finishing and caressing it in conscious joy.

And in Elizabeth's heart, too, there was a freshness of spring; an overflow of something elemental
and irresistible.

Yet, strangely enough, it was at that moment expressing itself in regret and compunction. Since
the dawn, that morning, she had been unable to sleep. The strong light, the pricking air, had
kept her wakeful; and she had been employing her time in writing to her mother, who was also
her friend.

"... Dear little mother--You will say I have been unkind--I say it to myself. But would it
really have been fairer if I had forbidden him to join us? There was just a chance--it seems
ridiculous now--but there was--I confess it! And by my letter from Toronto--though really my
little note might have been written to anybody--I as good as said so to him, 'Come and throw
the dice and--let us see what falls out!' Practically, that is what it amounted to--I admit
it in sackcloth and ashes. Well!--we have thrown the dice--and it won't do! No, it won't, it
won't do! And it is somehow all my fault--which is abominable. But I see now, what I never
saw at home or in Italy, that he is a thousand years older than I--that I should weary and
jar upon him at every turn, were I to marry him. Also I have discovered--out here--I believe,
darling, you have known it all along!--that there is at the very root of me a kind of savage--a
creature that hates fish-knives and finger-glasses and dressing for dinner--the things I have
done all my life, and Arthur Delaine will go on doing all his. Also that I never want to see
a museum again--at least, not for a long time; and that I don't care twopence whether Herculaneum
is excavated or not!

"Isn't it shocking? I can't explain myself; and poor Mr. Arthur evidently can't make head or
tail of me, and thinks me a little mad. So I am, in a sense. I am suffering from a new kind
of folie des grandeurs. The world has suddenly grown so big; everything in the human story--all
its simple fundamental things at least--is writ so large here. Hope and ambition--love and
courage--the man wrestling with the earth--the woman who bears and brings up children--it is
as though I had never felt, never seen them before. They rise out of the dust and mist of our
modern life--great shapes warm from the breast of Nature--and I hold my breath. Behind them,
for landscape, all the dumb age-long past of these plains and mountains; and in front, the
future on the loom, and the young radiant nation, shuttle in hand, moving to and fro at her
unfolding task!

"How unfair to Mr. Arthur that this queer intoxication of mine should have altered him so in
my foolish eyes--as though one had scrubbed all the golden varnish from an old picture, and
left it crude and charmless. It is not his fault--is mine. In Europe we loved the same things;
his pleasure kindled mine. But here he enjoys nothing that I enjoy; he is longing for a tiresome
day to end, when my heart is just singing for delight. For it is not only Canada in the large
that holds me, but all its dear, human, dusty, incoherent detail--all its clatter of new towns
and spreading farms--of pushing railways and young parliaments--of roadmaking and bridgemaking--of
saw-mills and lumber camps--detail so different from anything I have ever discussed with Arthur
Delaine before. Some of it is ugly, I know--I don't care! It is like a Rembrandt ugliness--that
only helps and ministers to a stronger beauty, the beauty of prairie and sky, and the beauty
of the human battle, the battle of blood and brain, with the earth and her forces.

"'Enter these enchanted woods, ye who dare!'"

"There is a man here--a Mr. George Anderson, of whom I told you something in my last letter--who
seems to embody the very life of this country, to be the prairie, and the railway, and the
forest--their very spirit and avatar. Personally, he is often sad; his own life has been hard;
and yet the heart of him is all hope and courage, all delight too in the daily planning and
wrestling, the contrivance and the cleverness, the rifling and outwitting of Nature--that makes
a Canadian--at any rate a Western Canadian. I suppose he doesn't know anything about art. Mr.
Arthur seems to have nothing in common with him; but there is in him that rush and energy of
life, from which, surely, art and poetry spring, when the time is ripe.

"Don't of course imagine anything absurd! He is just a young Scotch engineer, who seems to
have made some money as people do make money here--quickly and honestly--and is shortly going
into Parliament. They say that he is sure to be a great man. To us--to Philip and me, he has
been extremely kind. I only meant that he seems to be in place here--or anywhere, indeed, where
the world is moving; while Mr. Arthur, in Canada, is a walking anachronism. He is out of perspective;
he doesn't fit.

"You will say, that if I married him, it would not be to live in Canada, and once at home again,
the old estimates and 'values' would reassert themselves. But in a sense--don't be alarmed--I
shall always live in Canada. Or, rather, I shall never be quite the same again; and Mr. Arthur
would find me a restless, impracticable, discontented woman.

"Would it not really be kinder if I suggested to him to go home by California, while we come
back again through the Rockies? Don't you think it would? I feel that I have begun to get on
his nerves--as he on mine. If you were only here! But, I assure you, he doesn't look miserable;
and I think he will bear up very well. And if it will be any comfort to you to be told that
I know what is meant by the gnawing of the little worm, Compunction, then be comforted, dearest;
for it gnaws horribly, and out of all proportion--I vow--to my crimes.

"Philip is better on the whole, and has taken an enormous fancy to Mr. Anderson. But, as I
have told you all along, he is not so much better as you and I hoped he would be. I take every
care of him that I can, but you know that he is not wax, when it comes to managing. However,
Mr. Anderson has been a great help."

Recollections of this letter, and other thoughts besides, coming from much deeper strata of
the mind than she had been willing to reveal to her mother, kept slipping at intervals through
Elizabeth's consciousness, as she sat beside the lake.

A step beside her startled her, and she looked up to see Delaine approaching.

"Out already, Mr. Arthur! But I have had breakfast!"

"So have I. What a place!"

Elizabeth did not answer, but her smiling eyes swept the glorious circle of the lake.

"How soon will it all be spoilt and vulgarised?" said Delaine, with a shrug. "Next year, I
suppose, a funicular, to the top of the glacier."

Elizabeth cried out.

"Why not?" he asked her, as he rather coolly and deliberately took his seat beside her. "You
applaud telephones on the prairies; why not funiculars here?"

"The one serves, the other spoils," said Elizabeth eagerly.

"Serves whom? Spoils what?" The voice was cold. "All travellers are not like yourself."

"I am not afraid. The Canadians will guard their heritage."

"How dull England will seem to you when you go back to it!" he said to her, after a moment.
His tone had an under-note of bitterness which Elizabeth uncomfortably recognised.

"Oh! I have a way of liking what I must like," she said, hurriedly. "Just now, certainly, I
am in love with deserts--flat or mountainous--tempered by a private car."

He laughed perfunctorily. And suddenly it seemed to her that he had come out to seek her with
a purpose, and that a critical moment might be approaching. Her cheeks flushed, and to hide
them she leant over the water's edge and began to trail her finger in its clear wave.

He, however, sat in hesitation, looking at her, the prey of thoughts to which she had no clue.
He could not make up his mind, though he had just spent an almost sleepless night on the attempt
to do it.

The silence became embarrassing. Then, if he still groped, she seemed to see her way, and took it.

"It was very good of you to come out and join our wanderings," she said suddenly. Her voice
was clear and kind. He started.

"You know I could ask for nothing better," was his slow reply, not without dignity. "It has
been an immense privilege to see you like this, day by day."

Elizabeth's pulse quickened.

"How can I manage it?" she desperately thought. "But I must--"

"That's very sweet of you," she said aloud, "when I have bored you so with my raptures. And
now it's coming to an end, like all nice things. Philip and I think of staying a little in
Vancouver. And the Governor has asked us to go over to Victoria for a few days. You, I suppose,
will be doing the proper round, and going back by Seattle and San Francisco?"

Delaine received the blow--and understood it. There had been no definite plans ahead. Tacitly,
it had been assumed, he thought, that he was to return with them to Montreal and England. This
gentle question, then, was Elizabeth's way of telling him that his hopes were vain and his
journey fruitless.

He had not often been crossed in his life, and a flood of resentment surged up in a very perplexed
mind.

"Thank you. Yes--I shall go home by San Francisco."

The touch of haughtiness in his manner, the manner of one accustomed all his life to be a prominent
and considered person in the world, did not disguise from Elizabeth the soreness underneath.
It was hard to hurt her old friend. But she could only sit as though she felt nothing--meant
nothing--of any importance.

And she achieved it to perfection. Delaine, through all his tumult of feeling, was sharply
conscious of her grace, her reticence, her soft dignity. They were exactly what he coveted
in a wife--what he hoped he had captured in Elizabeth. How was it they had been snatched from
him? He turned blindly on the obstacle that had risen in his path, and the secret he had not
yet decided how to handle began to run away with him.

He bent forward, with a slightly heightened colour.

"Lady Merton--we might not have another opportunity--will you allow me a few frank words with
you--the privilege of an old friend?"

Elizabeth turned her face to him, and a pair of startled eyes that tried not to waver.

"Of course, Mr. Arthur," she said smiling. "Have I been doing anything dreadful?"

"May I ask what you personally know of this Mr. Anderson?"

He saw--or thought he saw--her brace herself under the sudden surprise of the name, and her
momentary discomfiture pleased him.

"What I know of Mr. Anderson?" she repeated wondering. "Why, no more than we all know. What
do you mean, Mr. Arthur? Ah, yes, I remember, you first met him in Winnipeg; we made acquaintance
with him the day before."

"For the first time? But you are now seeing a great deal of him. Are you quite sure--forgive
me if I seem impertinent--that he is--quite the person to be admitted to your daily companionship?"

He spoke slowly and harshly. The effort required before a naturally amiable and nervous man
could bring himself to put such an uncomfortable question made it appear particularly offensive.

"Our daily companionship?" repeated Elizabeth in bewilderment. "What can you mean, Mr. Arthur?
What is wrong with Mr. Anderson? You saw that everybody at Winnipeg seemed to know him and
respect him; people like the Chief Justice, and the Senator--what was his name?--and Monsieur
Mariette. I don't understand why you ask me such a thing. Why should we suppose there are any
mysteries about Mr. Anderson?"

Unconsciously her slight figure had stiffened, her voice had changed.

Delaine felt an admonitory qualm. He would have drawn back; but it was too late. He went on
doggedly--

"Were not all these persons you named acquainted with Mr. Anderson in his public capacity?
His success in the strike of last year brought him a great notoriety. But his private history--his
family and antecedents--have you gathered anything at all about them?"

Something that he could not decipher flashed through Elizabeth's expression. It was a strange
and thrilling sense that what she had gathered she would not reveal for--a kingdom!

"Monsieur Mariette told me all that anyone need want to know!" she cried, breathing quick.
"Ask him what he thinks--what he feels! But if you ask me, I think Mr. Anderson carries his
history in his face."

Delaine pondered a moment, while Elizabeth waited, challenging, expectant, her brown eyes all
vivacity.

"Well--some facts have come to my knowledge," he said, at last, "which have made me ask you
these questions. My only object--you must, you will admit that!--is to save you possible pain--a
possible shock."

"Mr. Arthur!" the voice was peremptory--"If you have learned anything about Mr. Anderson's
private history--by chance--without his knowledge--that perhaps he would rather we did not
know--I beg you will not tell me--indeed--please--I forbid you to tell me. We owe him much
kindness these last few weeks. I cannot gossip about him behind his back."

All her fine slenderness of form, her small delicacy of feature, seemed to him tense and vibrating,
like some precise and perfect instrument strained to express a human feeling or intention.
But what feeling? While he divined it, was she herself unconscious of it? His bitterness grew.

"Dear Lady Merton--can you not trust an old friend?"

She did not soften.

"I do trust him. But"--her smile flashed--"even new acquaintances have their rights."

"You will not understand," he said, earnestly. "What is in my mind came to me, through no wish
or will of mine. You cannot suppose that I have been prying into Mr. Anderson's affairs! But
now that the information is mine, I feel a great responsibility towards you."

"Don't feel it. I am a wilful woman."

"A rather perplexing one! May I at least be sure that"--he hesitated--"that you will be on
your guard?"

"On my guard?" she lifted her eyebrows proudly--"and against what?"

"That is precisely what you won't let me tell you."

She laughed--a little fiercely.

"There we are; no forrarder. But please remember, Mr. Arthur, how soon we shall all be separating.
Nothing very dreadful can happen in these few days--can it?"

For the first time there was a touch of malice in her smile.

Delaine rose, took one or two turns along the path in front of her, and then suddenly stopped
beside her.

"I think"--he said, with emphasis, "that Mr. Anderson will probably find himself summoned away--immediately--before
you get to Vancouver. But that I will discuss with him. You could give me no address, so I
have not yet been able to communicate with him."

Again Elizabeth's eyebrows went up. She rose.

"Of course you will do what you think best. Shall we go back to the hotel?"

They walked along in silence. He saw that she was excited, and that he had completely missed
his stroke; but he did not see how to mend the situation.

"Oh! there is Philip, going to fish," said Elizabeth at last, as though nothing had happened.
"I wondered what could possibly have got him up so early."

Philip waved to her as she spoke, shouting something which the mountain echoes absorbed. He
was accompanied by a young man, who seemed to be attached to the hotel as guide, fisherman,
hunter--at the pleasure of visitors. But Elizabeth had already discovered that he had the speech
of a gentleman, and attended the University of Manitoba during the winter. In the absence of
Anderson, Philip had no doubt annexed him for the morning.

There was a pile of logs lying on the lake side. Philip, rod in hand, began to scramble over
them to a point where several large trunks overhung deep water. His companion meanwhile was
seated on the moss, busy with some preparations.

"I hope Philip will be careful," said Delaine, suddenly. "There is nothing so slippery as logs."

Elizabeth, who had been dreaming, looked up anxiously. As she did so Philip, high perched on
the furthest logs, turned again to shout to his sister, his light figure clear against the
sunlit distance. Then the figure wavered, there was a sound of crashing wood, and Philip fell
head-foremost into the lake before him.

The young man on the bank looked up, threw away his rod and his coat, and was just plunging
into the lake when he was anticipated by another man who had come running down the bank of
the hotel, and was already in the water. Elizabeth, as she rushed along the edge, recognized
Anderson. Philip seemed to have disappeared; but Anderson dived, and presently emerged with
a limp burden. The guide was now aiding him, and between them they brought young Gaddesden
to land. The whole thing passed so rapidly that Delaine and Elizabeth, running at full speed,
had hardly reached the spot before Anderson was on the shore, bearing the lad in his arms.

Elizabeth bent over him with a moan of anguish. He seemed to her dead.

"He has only fainted," said Anderson peremptorily. "We must get him in." And he hurried on,
refusing Delaine's help, carrying the thin body apparently with ease along the path and up
the steps to the hotel. The guide had already been sent flying ahead to warn the household.

Thus, by one of the commonplace accidents of travel, the whole scene was changed for this group
of travellers. Philip Gaddesden would have taken small harm from his tumble into the lake,
but for the fact that the effects of rheumatic fever were still upon him. As it was, a certain
amount of fever, and some heart-symptoms that it was thought had been overcome, reappeared,
and within a few hours of the accident it became plain that, although he was in no danger,
they would be detained at least ten days, perhaps a fortnight, at Lake Louise. Elizabeth sat
down in deep despondency to write to her mother, and then lingered awhile with the letter before
her, her head in her hands, pondering with emotion what she and Philip owed to George Anderson,
who had, it seemed, arrived by a night train, and walked up to the hotel, in the very nick
of time. As to the accident itself, no doubt the guide, a fine swimmer and coureur de bois,
would have been sufficient, unaided, to save her brother. But after all, it was Anderson's
strong arms that had drawn him from the icy depths of the lake, and carried him to safety!
And since? Never had telephone and railway, and general knowledge of the resources at command,
been worked more skilfully than by him, and the kind people of the hotel. "Don't be the least
anxious"--she had written to her mother--"we have a capital doctor--all the chemist's stuff
we want--and we could have a nurse at any moment. Mr. Anderson has only to order one up from
the camp hospital in the pass. But for the present, Simpson and I are enough for the nursing."

She heard voices in the next room; a faint question from Philip, Anderson replying. What an
influence this man of strong character had already obtained over her wilful, self-indulgent
brother! She saw the signs of it in many directions; and she was passionately grateful for
it. Her thoughts went wandering back over the past three weeks--over the whole gradual unveiling
of Anderson's personality. She recalled her first impressions of him the day of the "sink-hole."
An ordinary, strong, capable, ambitious young man, full of practical interests, with brusque
manners, and a visible lack of some of the outer wrappings to which she was accustomed--it
was so that she had first envisaged him. Then at Winnipeg--through Mariette and others--she
had seen him as other men saw him, his seniors and contemporaries, the men engaged with him
in the making of this vast country. She had appreciated his character in what might be hereafter,
apparently, its public aspects; the character of one for whom the world surrounding him was
eagerly prophesying a future and a career. His profound loyalty to Canada, and to certain unspoken
ideals behind, which were really the source of the loyalty; the atmosphere at once democratic
and imperial in which his thoughts and desires moved, which had more than once communicated
its passion to her; a touch of poetry, of melancholy, of greatness even--all this she had gradually
perceived. Winnipeg and the prairie journey had developed him thus before her.

So much for the second stage in her knowledge of him. There was a third; she was in the midst
of it. Her face flooded with colour against her will. "Out of the strong shall come forth sweetness."
The words rushed into her mind. She hoped, as one who wished him well, that he would marry
soon and happily. And the woman who married him would find it no tame future.

Suddenly Delaine's warnings occurred to her. She laughed, a little hysterically.

Could anyone have shown himself more helpless, useless, incompetent, than Arthur Delaine since
the accident? Yet he was still on the spot. She realised, indeed, that it was hardly possible
for their old friend to desert them under the circumstances. But he merely represented an additional
burden.

A knock at the sitting-room door disturbed her. Anderson appeared.

"I am off to Banff, Lady Merton," he said from the threshold. "I think I have all your commissions.
Is your letter ready?"

She sealed it and gave it to him. Then she looked up at him; and for the first time he saw
her tremulous and shaken; not for her brother, but for himself.

"I don't know how to thank you." She offered her hand; and one of those beautiful looks--generous,
friendly, sincere--of which she had the secret.

He, too, flushed, his eyes held a moment by hers. Then he, somewhat brusquely, disengaged himself.

"Why, I did nothing! He was in no danger; the guide would have had him out in a twinkle. I
wish"--he frowned--"you wouldn't look so done up over it."

"Oh! I am all right."

"I brought you a book this morning. Mercifully I left it in the drawing-room, so it hasn't
been in the lake."

He drew it from his pocket. It was a French novel she had expressed a wish to read.

She exclaimed,

"How did you get it?"

"I found Mariette had it with him. He sends it me from Vancouver. Will you promise to read
it--and rest?"

He drew a sofa towards the window. The June sunset was blazing on the glacier without. Would
he next offer to put a shawl over her, and tuck her up? She retreated hastily to the writing-table,
one hand upon it. He saw the lines of her gray dress, her small neck and head; the Quakerish
smoothness of her brown hair, against the light. The little figure was grace, refinement, embodied.
But it was a grace that implied an environment--the cosmopolitan, luxurious environment, in
which such women naturally move.

His look clouded. He said a hasty good-bye and departed. Elizabeth was left breathing quick,
one hand on her breast. It was as though she had escaped something--or missed something.

As he left the hotel, Anderson found himself intercepted by Delaine in the garden, and paused
at once to give him the latest news.

"The report is really good, everything considered," he said, with a cordiality born of their
common anxiety; and he repeated the doctor's last words to himself.

"Excellent!" said Delaine; then, clearing his throat, "Mr. Anderson, may I have some conversation
with you?"

Anderson looked surprised, threw him a keen glance, and invited him to accompany him part of
the way to Laggan. They turned into a solitary road, running between the woods. It was late
evening, and the sun was striking through the Laggan valley beneath them in low shafts of gold
and purple.

"I am afraid what I have to say will be disagreeable to you," began Delaine, abruptly. "And
on this particular day--when we owe you so much--it is more than disagreeable to myself. But
I have no choice. By some extraordinary chance, with which I beg you to believe my own will
has had nothing to do, I have become acquainted with something--something that concerns you
privately--something that I fear will be a great shock to you."

Anderson stood still.

"What can you possibly mean?" he said, in growing amazement.

"I was accosted the night before last, as I was strolling along the railway line, by a man
I had never seen before, a man who--pardon me, it is most painful to me to seem to be interfering
with anyone's private affairs--who announced himself as"--the speaker's nervous stammer intervened
before he jerked out the words--"as your father!"

"As my father? Somebody must be mad!" said Anderson quietly. "My father has been dead ten years."

"I am afraid there is a mistake. The man who spoke to me is aware that you suppose him dead--he
had his own reasons, he declares, for allowing you to remain under a misconception; he now
wishes to reopen communications with you, and to my great regret, to my indignation, I may
say he chose me--an entire stranger--as his intermediary. He seems to have watched our party
all the way from Winnipeg, where he first saw you, casually, in the street. Naturally I tried
to escape from him--to refer him to you. But I could not possibly escape from him, at night,
with no road for either of us but the railway line. I was at his mercy."

"What was his reason for not coming direct to me?"

They were still pausing in the road. Delaine could see in the failing light that Anderson had
grown pale. But he perceived also an expression of scornful impatience in the blue eyes fixed
upon him.

"He has professed to be afraid--"

"That I should murder him?" said Anderson with a laugh. "And he told you some sort of a story?"

"A long one, I regret to say."

"And not to my credit?"

"The tone of it was certainly hostile. I would rather not repeat it."

"I should not dream of asking you to do so. And where is this precious individual to be found?"

Delaine named the address which had been given him--of a lodging mainly for railway men near
Laggan.

"I will look him up," said Anderson briefly. "The whole story of course is a mere attempt to
get money--for what reason I do not know; but I will look into it."

Delaine was silent. Anderson divined from his manner that he believed the story true. In the
minds of both the thought of Lady Merton emerged. Anderson scorned to ask, "Have you said anything
to them?" and Delaine was conscious of a nervous fear lest he should ask it. In the light of
the countenance beside him, no less than of the event of the day, his behaviour of the morning
began to seem to him more than disputable. In the morning he had seemed to himself the defender
of Elizabeth and the class to which they both belonged against low-born adventurers with disreputable
pasts. But as he stood there, confronting the "adventurer," his conscience as a gentleman--which
was his main and typical conscience--pricked him.

The inward qualm, however, only stiffened his manner. And Anderson asked nothing. He turned
towards Laggan.

"Good night. I will let you know the result of my investigations." And, with the shortest of
nods, he went off at a swinging pace down the road.

"I have only done my duty," argued Delaine with himself as he returned to the hotel. "It was
uncommonly difficult to do it at such a moment! But to him I have no obligations whatever;
my obligations are to Lady Merton and her family."

CHAPTER VIII

It was dark when Anderson reached Laggan, if that can be called darkness which was rather a
starry twilight, interfused with the whiteness of snow-field and glacier. He first of all despatched
a message to Banff for Elizabeth's commissions. Then he made straight for the ugly frame house
of which Delaine had given him the address. It was kept by a couple well known to him, an Irishman
and his wife who made their living partly by odd jobs on the railway, partly by lodging men
in search of work in the various construction camps of the line. To all such persons Anderson
was a familiar figure, especially since the great strike of the year before.

The house stood by itself in a plot of cleared ground, some two or three hundred yards from
the railway station. A rough road through the pine wood led up to it.

Anderson knocked, and Mrs. Ginnell came to the door, a tired, and apparently sulky woman.

"I hear you have a lodger here, Mrs. Ginnell," said Anderson, standing in the doorway, "a man
called McEwen; and that he wants to see me on some business or other."

Mrs. Ginnell's countenance darkened.

"We have an old man here, Mr. Anderson, as answers to that name, but you'll get no business
out of him--and I don't believe he have any business with any decent crater. When he arrived
two days ago he was worse for liquor, took on at Calgary. I made my husband look after him
that night to see he didn't get at nothing, but yesterday he slipped us both, an' I believe
he's now in that there outhouse, a-sleeping it off. Old men like him should be sent somewhere
safe, an' kep' there."

"I'll go and see if he's awake, Mrs. Ginnell. Don't you trouble to come. Any other lodgers?"

"No, sir. There was a bunch of 'em left this morning--got work on the Crow's Nest."

Anderson made his way to the little "shack," Ginnell's house of the first year, now used as
a kind of general receptacle for tools, rubbish and stores.

He looked in. On a heap of straw in the corner lay a huddled figure, a kind of human rag. Anderson
paused a moment, then entered, hung the lamp he had brought with him on a peg, and closed the
door behind him.

He stood looking down at the sleeper, who was in the restless stage before waking. McEwen threw
himself from side to side, muttered, and stretched.

Slowly a deep colour flooded Anderson's cheeks and brow; his hands hanging beside him clenched;
he checked a groan that was also a shudder. The abjectness of the figure, the terrible identification
proceeding in his mind, the memories it evoked, were rending and blinding him. The winter morning
on the snow-strewn prairie, the smell of smoke blown towards him on the wind, the flames of
the burning house, the horror of the search among the ruins, his father's confession, and his
own rage and despair--deep in the tissues of life these images were stamped. The anguish of
them ran once more through his being.

How had he been deceived? And what was to be done? He sat down on a heap of rubbish beside
the straw, looking at his father. He had last seen him as a man of fifty, vigorous, red-haired,
coarsely handsome, though already undermined by drink. The man lying on the straw was approaching
seventy, and might have been much older. His matted hair was nearly white, face blotched and
cavernous; and the relaxation of sleep emphasised the mean cunning of the mouth. His clothing
was torn and filthy, the hands repulsive.

Anderson could only bear a few minutes of this spectacle. A natural shame intervened. He bent
over his father and called him.

"Robert Anderson!"

A sudden shock passed through the sleeper. He started up, and Anderson saw his hand dart for
something lying beside him, no doubt a revolver.

But Anderson grasped the arm.

"Don't be afraid; you're quite safe."

McEwen, still bewildered by sleep and drink, tried to shake off the grasp, to see who it was
standing over him. Anderson released him, and moved so that the lamplight fell upon himself.

Slowly McEwen's faculties came together, began to work. The lamplight showed him his son George--the
fair-haired, broad-shouldered fellow he had been tracking all these days--and he understood.

He straightened himself, with an attempt at dignity.

"So it's you, George? You might have given me notice."

"Where have you been all these years?" said Anderson, indistinctly. "And why did you let me
believe you dead?"

"Well, I had my reasons, George. But I don't mean to go into 'em. All that's dead and gone.
There was a pack of fellows then on my shoulders--I was plumb tired of 'em. I had to get rid
of--I did get rid of 'em--and you, too. I knew you were inquiring after me, and I didn't want
inquiries. They didn't suit me. You may conclude what you like. I tell you those times are
dead and gone. But it seemed to me that Robert Anderson was best put away for a bit. So I took
measures according."

"You knew I was deceived."

"Yes, I knew," said the other composedly. "Couldn't be helped."

"And where have you been since?"

"In Nevada, George--Comstock--silver-mining. Rough lot, but you get a stroke of luck sometimes.
I've got a chance on now--me and a friend of mine--that's first-rate."

"What brought you back to Canada?"

"Well, it was your aunt, Mrs. Harriet Sykes. Ever hear of her, George?"

Anderson shook his head.

"You must have heard of her when you were a little chap. When I left Ayrshire in 1840 she was
a lass of sixteen; never saw her since. But she married a man well-to-do, and was left a widder
with no children. And when she died t'other day, she'd left me something in her will, and told
the lawyers to advertise over here, in Canada and the States--both. And I happened on the advertisement
in a Chicago paper. Told yer to call on Smith & Dawkins, Winnipeg. So that was how I came to
see Winnipeg again."

"When were you there?"

"Just when you was," said the old man, with a triumphant look, which for the moment effaced
the squalor of his aspect. "I was coming out of Smith & Dawkins's with the money in my pocket,
when I saw you opposite, just going into a shop. You could ha' knocked me down easy, I warrant
ye. Didn't expect to come on yer tracks as fast as all that. But there you were, and when you
came out and went down t' street, I just followed you at a safe distance, and saw you go into
the hotel. Afterwards, I went into the Free Library to think a bit, and then I saw the piece
in the paper about you and that Saskatchewan place; and I got hold of a young man in a saloon
who found out all about you and those English swells you've been hanging round with; and that
same night, when you boarded the train, I boarded it, too. See? Only I am not a swell like
you. And here we are. See?"

The last speech was delivered with a mixture of bravado, cunning, and sinister triumph. Anderson
sat with his head in his hands, his eyes on the mud floor, listening. When it was over he looked
up.

"Why didn't you come and speak to me at once?"

The other hesitated.

"Well, I wasn't a beauty to look at. Not much of a credit to you, am I? Didn't think you'd
own me. And I don't like towns--too many people about. Thought I'd catch you somewhere on the
quiet. Heard you was going to the Rockies. Thought I might as well go round by Seattle home. See?"

"You have had plenty of chances since Winnipeg of making yourself known to me," said Anderson
sombrely. "Why did you speak to a stranger instead of coming direct to me?"

McEwen hesitated a moment.

"Well, I wasn't sure of you. I didn't know how you'd take it. And I'd lost my nerve, damn it!
the last few years. Thought you might just kick me out, or set the police on me."

Anderson studied the speaker. His fair skin was deeply flushed; his brow frowned unconsciously,
reflecting the travail of thought behind it.

"What did you say to that gentleman the other night?"

McEwen smiled a shifty smile, and began to pluck some pieces of straw from his sleeve.

"Don't remember just what I did say. Nothing to do you no harm, anyway. I might have said you
were never an easy chap to get on with. I might have said that, or I mightn't. Think I did.
Don't remember."

The eyes of the two men met for a moment, Anderson's bright and fixed. He divined perfectly
what had been said to the Englishman, Lady Merton's friend and travelling companion. A father
overborne by misfortunes and poverty, disowned by a prosperous and Pharisaical son--admitting
a few peccadilloes, such as most men forgive, in order to weigh them against virtues, such
as all men hate. Old age and infirmity on the one hand; mean hardness and cruelty on the other.
Was Elizabeth already contemplating the picture?

And yet--No! unless perhaps under the shelter of darkness, it could never have been possible
for this figure before him to play the part of innocent misfortune, at all events. Could debauch,
could ruin of body and soul be put more plainly? Could they express themselves more clearly
than through this face and form?

A shudder ran through Anderson, a cry against fate, a sick wondering as to his own past responsibility,
a horror of the future. Then his will strengthened, and he set himself quietly to see what
could be done.

"We can't talk here," he said to his father. "Come back into the house. There are some rooms
vacant. I'll take them for you."

McEwen rose with difficulty, groaning as he put his right foot to the ground. Anderson then
perceived that the right foot and ankle were wrapped round with a bloodstained rag, and was
told that the night before their owner had stumbled over a jug in Mrs. Ginnell's kitchen, breaking
the jug and inflicting some deep cuts on his own foot and ankle. McEwen, indeed, could only
limp along, with mingled curses and lamentations, supported by Anderson. In the excitement
of his son's appearance he had forgotten his injury. The pain and annoyance of it returned
upon him now with added sharpness, and Anderson realised that here was yet another complication
as they moved across the yard.

A few words to the astonished Mrs. Ginnell sufficed to secure all her vacant rooms, four in
number. Anderson put his father in one on the ground floor, then shut the door on him and went
back to the woman of the house. She stood looking at him, flushed, in a bewildered silence.
But she and her husband owed various kindnesses to Anderson, and he quickly made up his mind.

In a very few words he quietly told her the real facts, confiding them both to her self-interest
and her humanity. McEwen was to be her only lodger till the next step could be determined.
She was to wait on him, to keep drink from him, to get him clothes. Her husband was to go out
with him, if he should insist on going out; but Anderson thought his injury would keep him
quiet for a day or two. Meanwhile, no babbling to anybody. And, of course, generous payment
for all that was asked of them.

But Mrs. Ginnell understood that she was being appealed to not only commercially, but as a
woman with a heart in her body and a good share of Irish wit. That moved and secured her. She
threw herself nobly into the business. Anderson might command her as he pleased, and she answered
for her man. Renewed groans from the room next door disturbed them. Mrs. Ginnell went in to
answer them, and came out demanding a doctor. The patient was in much pain, the wounds looked
bad, and she suspected fever.

"Yo can't especk places to heal with such as him," she said, grimly.

With doggedness, Anderson resigned himself. He went to the station and sent a wire to Field
for a doctor. What would happen when he arrived he did not know. He had made no compact with
his father. If the old man chose to announce himself, so be it. Anderson did not mean to bargain
or sue. Other men have had to bear such burdens in the face of the world. Should it fall to
him to be forced to take his up in like manner, let him set his teeth and shoulder it, sore
and shaken as he was. He felt a fierce confidence that could still make the world respect him.

An hour passed away. An answer came from Field to the effect that a doctor would be sent up
on a freight train just starting, and might be expected shortly.

While Mrs. Ginnell was still attending on her lodger, Anderson went out into the starlight
to try and think out the situation. The night was clear and balmy. The high snows glimmered
through the lingering twilight, and in the air there was at last a promise of "midsummer pomps."
Pine woods and streams breathed freshness, and when in his walk along the railway line--since
there is no other road through the Kicking Horse Pass--he reached a point whence the great
Yoho valley became visible to the right, he checked the rapid movement which had brought him
a kind of physical comfort, and set himself--in face of that far-stretching and splendid solitude--to
wrestle with calamity.

First of all there was the Englishman--Delaine--and the letter that must be written him. But
there, also, no evasions, no suppliancy. Delaine must be told that the story was true, and
would no doubt think himself entitled to act upon it. The protest on behalf of Lady Merton
implied already in his manner that afternoon was humiliating enough. The smart of it was still
tingling through Anderson's being. He had till now felt a kind of instinctive contempt for
Delaine as a fine gentleman with a useless education, inclined to patronise "colonists." The
two men had jarred from the beginning, and at Banff, Anderson had both divined in him the possible
suitor of Lady Merton, and had also become aware that Delaine resented his own intrusion upon
the party, and the rapid intimacy which had grown up between him and the brother and sister.
Well, let him use his chance! if it so pleased him. No promise whatever should be asked of
him; there should be no suggestion even of a line of action. The bare fact which he had become
possessed of should be admitted, and he should be left to deal with it. Upon his next step
would depend Anderson's; that was all.

But Lady Merton?

Anderson stared across the near valley, up the darkness beyond, where lay the forests of the
Yoho, and to those ethereal summits whence a man might behold on one side the smoke-wreaths
of the great railway, and on the other side the still virgin peaks of the northern Rockies,
untamed, untrodden. But his eyes were holden; he saw neither snow, nor forests, and the roar
of the stream dashing at his feet was unheard.

Three weeks, was it, since he had first seen that delicately oval face, and those clear eyes?
The strong man--accustomed to hold himself in check, to guard his own strength as the instrument,
firm and indispensable, of an iron will--recoiled from the truth he was at last compelled to
recognise. In this daily companionship with a sensitive and charming woman, endowed beneath
her light reserve with all the sweetness of unspoilt feeling, while yet commanding through
her long training in an old society a thousand delicacies and subtleties, which played on Anderson's
fresh senses like the breeze on young leaves--whither had he been drifting--to the brink of
what precipice had he brought himself, unknowing?

He stood there indefinitely, among the charred tree-trunks that bordered the line, his arms
folded, looking straight before him, motionless.

Supposing to-day had been yesterday, need he--together with this sting of passion--have felt
also this impotent and angry despair? Before his eyes had seen that figure lying on the straw
of Mrs. Ginnell's outhouse, could he ever have dreamed it possible that Elizabeth Merton should
marry him?

Yes! He thought, trembling from head to foot, of that expression in her eyes he had seen that
very afternoon. Again and again he had checked his feeling by the harsh reminder of her social
advantages. But, at this moment of crisis, the man in him stood up, confident and rebellious.
He knew himself sound, intellectually and morally. There was a career before him, to which
a cool and reasonable ambition looked forward without any paralysing doubts. In this growing
Canada, measuring himself against the other men of the moment, he calmly foresaw his own growing
place. As to money, he would make it; he was in process of making it, honourably and sufficiently.

He was well aware indeed that in the case of many women sprung from the English governing class,
the ties that bind them to their own world, its traditions, and its outlook, are so strong
that to try and break them would be merely to invite disaster. But then from such women his
own pride--his pride in his country--would have warned his passion. It was to Elizabeth's lovely
sympathy, her generous detachment, her free kindling mind--that his life had gone out. She
would, surely, never be deterred from marrying a Canadian--if he pleased her--because it would
cut her off from London and Paris, and all the ripe antiquities and traditions of English or
European life? Even in the sparsely peopled Northwest, with which his own future was bound
up, how many English women are there--fresh, some of them, from luxurious and fastidious homes--on
ranches, on prairie farms, in the Okanagan valley! "This Northwest is no longer a wilderness!"
he proudly thought; "it is no longer a leap in the dark to bring a woman of delicate nurture
and cultivation to the prairies."

So, only a few hours before, he might have flattered the tyranny of longing and desire which
had taken hold upon him.

But now! All his life seemed besmirched. His passion had been no sooner born than, like a wounded
bird, it fluttered to the ground. Bring upon such a woman as Elizabeth Merton the most distant
responsibility for such a being as he had left behind him in the log-hut at Laggan? Link her
life in however remote a fashion with that life? Treachery and sacrilege, indeed! No need for
Delaine to tell him that! His father as a grim memory of the past--that Lady Merton knew. His
own origins--his own story--as to that she had nothing to discover. But the man who might have
dared to love her, up to that moment in the hut, was now a slave, bound to a corpse--

Finis!

And then as the anguish of the thought swept through him, and by a natural transmission of
ideas, there rose in Anderson the sore and sudden memory of old, unhappy things, of the tender
voices and faces of his first youth. The ugly vision of his degraded father had brought back
upon him, through a thousand channels of association, the recollection of his mother. He saw
her now--the worn, roughened face, the sweet swimming eyes; he felt her arms around him, the
tears of her long agony on his face. She had endured--he too must endure. Close, close--he
pressed her to his heart. As the radiant image of Elizabeth vanished from him in the darkness,
his mother--broken, despairing, murdered in her youth--came to him and strengthened him. Let
him do his duty to this poor outcast, as she would have done it--and put high thoughts from him.

He tore himself resolutely from his trance of thought, and began to walk back along the line.
All the same, he would go up to Lake Louise, as he had promised, on the following morning.
As far as his own intention was concerned, he would not cease to look after Lady Merton and
her brother; Philip Gaddesden would soon have to be moved, and he meant to escort them to Vancouver.

Sounds approached, from the distance--the "freight," with the doctor, climbing the steep pass.
He stepped on briskly to a signal-man's cabin and made arrangements to stop the train.

It was towards midnight when he and the doctor emerged from the Ginnell's cabin.

"Oh, I daresay we'll heal those cuts," said the doctor. "I've told Mrs. Ginnell what to do;
but the old fellow's in a pretty cranky state. I doubt whether he'll trouble the world very long."

Anderson started. With his eyes on the ground and his hands in his pockets, he inquired the
reason for this opinion.

"Arteries--first and foremost. It's a wonder they've held out so long, and then--a score of
other things. What can you expect?"

The speaker went into some details, discussing the case with gusto. A miner from Nevada? Queer
hells often, those mining camps, whether on the Canadian or the American side of the border.

"You were acquainted with his family? Canadian, to begin with, I understand?"

"Yes. He applied to me for help. Did he tell you much about himself?"

"No. He boasted a lot about some mine in the Comstock district which is to make his fortune,
if he can raise the money to buy it up. If he can raise fifteen thousand dollars, he says,
he wouldn't care to call Rockefeller his uncle!"

"That's what he wants, is it?" said Anderson, absently, "fifteen thousand dollars?"

"Apparently. Wish he may get it!" laughed the doctor. "Well, keep him from drink, if you can.
But I doubt if you'll cheat the undertaker very long. Good night. There'll be a train along
soon that'll pick me up."

Anderson went back to the cabin, found that his father had dropped asleep, left money and directions
with Mrs. Ginnell, and then returned to his own lodgings.

He sat down to write to Delaine. It was clear that, so far, that gentleman and Mrs. Ginnell
were the only other participants in the secret of McEwen's identity. The old man had not revealed
himself to the doctor. Did that mean that--in spite of his first reckless interview with the
Englishman--he had still some notion of a bargain with his son, on the basis of the fifteen
thousand dollars?

Possibly. But that son had still to determine his own line of action. When at last he began
to write, he wrote steadily and without a pause. Nor was the letter long.

CHAPTER IX

On the morning following his conversation with Anderson on the Laggan road, Delaine impatiently
awaited the arrival of the morning mail from Laggan. When it came, he recognised Anderson's
handwriting on one of the envelopes put into his hand. Elizabeth, having kept him company at
breakfast, had gone up to sit with Philip. Nevertheless, he took the precaution of carrying
the letter out of doors to read it.

It ran as follows:

     "DEAR MR. DELAINE--You were rightly informed, and the man you
     saw is my father. I was intentionally deceived ten years ago
     by a false report of his death. Into that, however, I need
     not enter. If you talked with him, as I understand you did,
     for half an hour, you will, I think, have gathered that his
     life has been unfortunately of little advantage either to
     himself or others. But that also is my personal affair--and
     his. And although in a moment of caprice, and for reasons not
     yet plain to me, he revealed himself to you, he appears
     still to wish to preserve the assumed name and identity that
     he set up shortly after leaving Manitoba, seventeen years
     ago. As far as I am concerned, I am inclined to indulge him.
     But you will, of course, take your own line, and will no
     doubt communicate it to me. I do not imagine that my private
     affairs or my father's can be of any interest to you, but
     perhaps I may say that he is at present for a few days in the
     doctor's hands and that I propose as soon as his health is
     re-established to arrange for his return to the States, where
     his home has been for so long. I am, of course, ready to make
     any arrangements for his benefit that seem wise, and that he
     will accept. I hope to come up to Lake Louise to-morrow, and
     shall bring with me one or two things that Lady Merton asked
     me to get for her. Next week I hope she may be able and
     inclined to take one or two of the usual excursions from the
     hotel, if Mr. Gaddesden goes on as well as we all expect. I
     could easily make the necessary arrangements for ponies,
     guides, &c.

     "Yours faithfully,

     "GEORGE ANDERSON."

"Upon my word, a cool hand! a very cool hand!" muttered Delaine in some perplexity, as he thrust
the letter into his pocket, and strolled on toward the lake. His mind went back to the strange
nocturnal encounter which had led to the development of this most annoying relation between
himself and Anderson. He recalled the repulsive old man, his uneducated speech, the signs about
him of low cunning and drunken living, his rambling embittered charges against his son, who,
according to him, had turned his father out of the Manitoba farm in consequence of a family
quarrel, and had never cared since to find out whether he was alive or dead. "Sorry to trouble
you, sir, I'm sure--a genelman like you"--obsequious old ruffian!--"but my sons were always
kittle-cattle, and George the worst of 'em all. If you would be so kind, sir, as to gie 'im
a word o' preparation--"

Delaine could hear his own impatient reply: "I have nothing whatever, sir, to do with your
business! Approach Mr. Anderson yourself if you have any claim to make." Whereupon a half-sly,
half-threatening hint from the old fellow that he might be disagreeable unless well handled;
that perhaps "the lady" would listen to him and plead for him with his son.

Lady Merton! Good heavens! Delaine had been immediately ready to promise anything in order
to protect her.

Yet even now the situation was extremely annoying and improper. Here was this man, Anderson,
still coming up to the hotel, on the most friendly terms with Lady Merton and her brother,
managing for them, laying them under obligations, and all the time, unknown to Elizabeth, with
this drunken old scamp of a father in the background, who had already half-threatened to molest
her, and would be quite capable, if thwarted, of blackmailing his son through his English friends!

"What can I do?" he said to himself, in disgust. "I have no right whatever to betray this man's
private affairs; at the same time I should never forgive myself--Mrs. Gaddesden would never
forgive me--if I were to allow Lady Merton to run any risk of some sordid scandal which might
get into the papers. Of course this young man ought to take himself off! If he had any proper
feeling whatever he would see how altogether unfitting it is that he, with his antecedents,
should be associating in this very friendly way with such persons as Elizabeth Merton and her
brother!"

Unfortunately the "association" had included the rescue of Philip from the water of Lake Louise,
and the provision of help to Elizabeth, in a strange country, which she could have ill done
without. Philip's unlucky tumble had been, certainly, doubly unlucky, if it was to be the means
of entangling his sister further in an intimacy which ought never to have been begun.

And yet how to break through this spider's web? Delaine racked his brain, and could think of
nothing better than delay and a pusillanimous waiting on Providence. Who knew what mad view
Elizabeth might take of the whole thing, in this overstrained sentimental mood which had possessed
her throughout this Canadian journey? The young man's troubles might positively recommend him
in her eyes!

No! there was nothing for it but to stay on as an old friend and watchdog, responsible, at
least--if Elizabeth would have none of his counsels--to her mother and kinsfolk at home, who
had so clearly approved his advances in the winter, and would certainly blame Elizabeth, on
her return, for the fact that his long journey had been fruitless. He magnanimously resolved
that Lady Merton should not be blamed if he could help it, by anyone except himself. And he
had no intention at all of playing the rejected lover. The proud, well-born, fastidious Englishman
stiffened as he walked. It was wounding to his self-love to stay where he was; since it was
quite plain that Elizabeth could do without him, and would not regret his departure; but it
was no less wounding to be dismissed, as it were, by Anderson. He would not be dismissed; he
would hold his own. He too would go with them to Vancouver; and not till they were safely in
charge of the Lieutenant-Governor at Victoria, would he desert his post.

As to any further communication to Elizabeth, he realised that the hints into which he had
been so far betrayed had profited neither himself nor her. She had resented them, and it was
most unlikely that she would ask him for any further explanations; and that being so he had
better henceforward hold his peace. Unless of course any further annoyance were threatened.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hotel cart going down to Laggan for supplies at midday brought Anderson his answer:

     "DEAR MR. ANDERSON--Your letter gave me great concern. I
     deeply sympathise with your situation. As far as I am
     concerned, I must necessarily look at the matter entirely
     from the point of view of my fellow-travellers. Lady Merton
     must not be distressed or molested. So long, however, as this
     is secured, I shall not feel myself at liberty to reveal a
     private matter which has accidentally come to my knowledge. I
     understand, of course, that your father will not attempt any
     further communication with me, and I propose to treat the
     interview as though it had not happened.

     "I will give Lady Merton your message. It seems to me
     doubtful whether she will be ready for excursions next week.
     But you are no doubt aware that the hotel makes what are
     apparently very excellent and complete arrangements for such
     things. I am sure Lady Merton would be sorry to give you
     avoidable trouble. However, we shall see you to-morrow, and
     shall of course be very glad of your counsels.

     "Yours faithfully,

     "ARTHUR MANDEVILLE DELAINE."

Anderson's fair skin flushed scarlet as he read this letter. He thrust it into his pocket and
continued to pace up and down in the patch of half-cleared ground at the back of the Ginnells'
house. He perfectly understood that Delaine's letter was meant to warn him not to be too officious
in Lady Merton's service. "Don't suppose yourself indispensable--and don't at any time forget
your undesirable antecedents, and compromising situation. On those conditions, I hold my tongue."

"Pompous ass!" Anderson found it a hard task to keep his own pride in check. It was of a different
variety from Delaine's, but not a whit less clamorous. Yet for Lady Merton's sake it was desirable,
perhaps imperative, that he should keep on civil terms with this member of her party. A hot
impulse swept through him to tell her everything, to have done with secrecy. But he stifled
it. What right had he to intrude his personal history upon her?--least of all this ugly and
unsavoury development of it? Pride spoke again, and self-respect. If it humiliated him to feel
himself in Delaine's power, he must bear it. The only other alternatives were either to cut
himself off at once from his English friends--that, of course, was what Delaine wished--or
to appeal to Lady Merton's sympathy and pity. Well, he would do neither--and Delaine might go hang!

Mrs. Ginnell, with her apron over her head to shield her from a blazing sun, appeared at the
corner of the house.

"You're wanted, sir!" Her tone was sulky.

"Anything wrong?" Anderson turned apprehensively.

"Nothing more than 'is temper, sir. He won't let yer rest, do what you will for 'im."

Anderson went into the house. His father was sitting up in bed. Mrs. Ginnell had been endeavouring
during the past hour to make her patient clean and comfortable, and to tidy his room; but had
been at last obliged to desist, owing to the mixture of ill-humour and bad language with which
he assailed her.

"Can I do anything for you?" Anderson inquired, standing beside him.

"Get me out of this blasted hole as soon as possible! That's about all you can do! I've told
that woman to get me my things, and help me into the other room--but she's in your pay, I suppose.
She won't do anything I tell her, drat her!"

"The doctor left orders you were to keep quiet to-day."

McEwen vowed he would do nothing of the kind. He had no time to be lolling in bed like a fine
lady. He had business to do, and must get home.

"If you get up, with this fever on you, and the leg in that state, you will have blood-poisoning,"
said Anderson quietly, "which will either kill you or detain you here for weeks. You say you
want to talk business with me. Well, here I am. In an hour's time I must go to Calgary for
an appointment. Suppose you take this opportunity."

McEwen stared at his son. His blue eyes, frowning in their wrinkled sockets, gave little or
no index, however, to the mind behind them. The straggling white locks falling round his blotched
and feverish face caught Anderson's attention. Looking back thirty years he could remember
his father vividly--a handsome man, solidly built, with a shock of fair hair. As a little lad
he had been proud to sit high-perched beside him on the wagon which in summer drove them, every
other Sunday, to a meeting-house fifteen miles away. He could see his mother at the back of
the wagon with the little girls, her grey alpaca dress and cotton gloves, her patient look.
His throat swelled. Nor was the pang of intolerable pity for his mother only. Deep in the melancholy
of his nature and strengthened by that hateful tie of blood from which he could not escape,
was a bitter, silent compassion for this outcast also. All the machinery of life set in motion
and maintaining itself in the clash of circumstance for seventy years to produce this, at the
end! Dismal questionings ran through his mind. Ought he to have acted as he had done seventeen
years before? How would his mother have judged him? Was he not in some small degree responsible?

Meanwhile his father began to talk fast and querulously, with plentiful oaths from time to
time, and using a local miner's slang which was not always intelligible to Anderson. It seemed
it was a question of an old silver mine on a mountainside in Idaho, deserted some ten years
before when the river gravels had been exhausted, and now to be reopened, like many others
in the same neighbourhood, with improved methods and machinery, tunnelling instead of washing.
Silver enough to pave Montreal! Ten thousand dollars for plant, five thousand for the claim,
and the thing was done.

He became incoherently eloquent, spoke of the ease and rapidity with which the thing could
be resold to a syndicate at an enormous profit, should his "pardners" and he not care to develop
it themselves. If George would find the money--why, George should make his fortune, like the
rest, though he had behaved so scurvily all these years.

Anderson watched the speaker intently. Presently he began to put questions--close, technical
questions. His father's eyes--till then eager and greedy--began to flicker. Anderson perceived
an unwelcome surprise--annoyance--

"You knew, of course, that I was a mining engineer?" he said at last, pulling up in his examination.

"Well, I heard of you that onst at Dawson City," was the slow reply. "I supposed you were nosin'
round like the rest."

"Why, I didn't go as a mere prospector! I'd had my training at Montreal." And Anderson resumed
his questions.

But McEwen presently took no pains to answer them. He grew indeed less and less communicative.
The exact locality of the mine, the names of the partners, the precise machinery required--Anderson,
in the end, could get at neither the one nor the other. And before many more minutes had passed
he had convinced himself that he was wasting his time. That there was some swindling plot in
his father's mind he was certain; he was probably the tool of some shrewder confederates, who
had no doubt sent him to Montreal after his legacy, and would fleece him on his return.

"By the way, Aunt Sykes's money, how much was it?" Anderson asked him suddenly. "I suppose
you could draw on that?"

McEwen could not be got to give a plain answer. It wasn't near enough, anyhow; not near. The
evasion seemed to Anderson purposeless; the mere shifting and doubling that comes of long years
of dishonest living. And again the question stabbed his consciousness--were his children justified
in casting him so inexorably adrift?

"Well, I'd better run down and have a look," he said at last. "If it's a good thing I dare
say I can find you the dollars."

"Run down--where?" asked McEwen sharply.

"To the mine, of course. I might spare the time next week."

"No need to trouble yourself. My pardners wouldn't thank me for betraying their secrets."

"Well, you couldn't expect me to provide the money without knowing a bit more about the property,
could you?--without a regular survey?" said Anderson, with a laugh.

"You trust me with three or four thousand dollars," said McEwen doggedly--"because I'm your
father and I give you my word. And if not, you can let it alone. I don't want any prying into
my affairs."

Anderson was silent a moment.

Then he raised his eyes.

"Are you sure it's all square?" The tone had sharpened.

"Square? Of course it is. What are you aiming at? You'll believe any villainy of your old father,
I suppose, just the same as you always used to. I've not had your opportunities, George. I'm
not a fine gentleman--on the trail with a parcel of English swells. I'm a poor old broken-down
miner, who wants to hole-up somewhere, and get comfortable for his old age; and if you had
a heart in your body, you'd lend a helping hand. When I saw you at Winnipeg"--the tone became
a trifle plaintive and slippery--"I ses to myself, George used to be a nice chap, with a good
heart. If there's anyone ought to help me it's my own son. And so I boarded that train. But
I'm a broken man, George, and you've used me hard."

"Better not talk like that," interrupted Anderson in a clear, resolute voice. "It won't do
any good. Look here, father! Suppose you give up this kind of life, and settle down. I'm ready
to give you an allowance, and look after you. Your health is bad. To speak the truth, this
mine business sounds to me pretty shady. Cut it all! I'll put you with decent people, who'll
look after you."

The eyes of the two men met; Anderson's insistently bright, McEwen's wavering and frowning.
The June sunshine came into the small room through a striped and battered blind, illuminating
the rough planks of which it was built, the "cuts" from illustrated papers that were pinned
upon them, the scanty furniture, and the untidy bed. Anderson's head and shoulders were in
a full mellowed light; he held himself with an unconscious energy, answering to a certain force
of feeling within; a proud strength and sincerity expressed itself through every detail of
attitude and gesture; yet perhaps the delicacy, or rather sensibility, mingling with the pride,
would have been no less evident to a seeing eye. There was Highland blood in him, and a touch
therefore of the Celtic responsiveness, the Celtic magnetism. The old man opposite to him in
shadow, with his back to the light, had a crouching dangerous look. It was as though he recognised
something in his son for ever lost to himself; and repulsed it, half enviously, half malignantly.

But he did not apparently resent Anderson's proposal. He said sulkily: "Oh, I dessay you'd
like to put me away. But I'm not doddering yet."

All the same he listened in silence to the plan that Anderson developed, puffing the while
at the pipe which he had made Mrs. Ginnell give him.

"I shan't stay on this side," he said, at last, decidedly. "There's a thing or two that might
turn up agin me--and fellows as 'ud do me a bad turn if they come across me--dudes, as I used
to know in Dawson City. I shan't stay in Canada. You can make up your mind to that. Besides,
the winter'ud kill me!"

Anderson accordingly proposed San Francisco, or Los Angeles. Would his father go for a time
to a Salvation Army colony near Los Angeles? Anderson knew the chief officials--capital men,
with no cant about them. Fruit farming--a beautiful climate--care in sickness--no drink--as
much work or as little as he liked--and all expenses paid.

McEwen laughed out--a short sharp laugh--at the mention of the Salvation Army. But he listened
patiently, and at the end even professed to think there might be something in it. As to his
own scheme, he dropped all mention of it. Yet Anderson was under no illusion; there it lay
sparkling, as it were, at the back of his sly wolfish eyes.

"How in blazes could you take me down?" muttered McEwen--"Thought you was took up with these
English swells."

"I'm not taken up with anything that would prevent my looking after you," said Anderson rising.
"You let Mrs. Ginnell attend to you--get the leg well--and we'll see."

McEwen eyed him--his good looks and his dress, his gentleman's refinement; and the shaggy white
brows of the old miner drew closer together.

"What did you cast me off like that for, George?" he asked.

Anderson turned away.

"Don't rake up the past. Better not."

"Where are my other sons, George?"

"In Montreal, doing well." Anderson gave the details of their appointments and salaries.

"And never a thought of their old father, I'll be bound!" said McEwen, at the end, with slow
vindictiveness.

"You forget that it was your own doing; we believed you dead."

"Aye!--you hadn't left a man much to come home for!--and all for an accident!--a thing as might
ha' happened to any man."

The speaker's voice had grown louder. He stared sombrely, defiantly at his companion.

Anderson stood with his hands on his sides, looking through the further window. Then slowly
he put his hand into his pocket and withdrew from it a large pocket-book. Out of the pocket-book
he took a delicately made leather case, holding it in his hand a moment, and glancing uncertainly
at the figure in the bed.

"What ha' you got there?" growled McEwen.

Anderson crossed the room. His own face had lost its colour. As he reached his father, he touched
a spring, and held out his hand with the case lying open within it.

It contained a miniature--of a young woman in the midst of a group of children.

"Do you remember that photograph that was done of them--in a tent--when you took us all into
Winnipeg for the first agricultural show?" he said hoarsely. "I had a copy--that wasn't burnt.
At Montreal, there was a French artist one year, that did these things. I got him to do this."

McEwen stared at the miniature--the sweet-faced Scotch woman, the bunch of children. Then with
a brusque movement he turned his face to the wall, and closed his eyes.

Anderson's lips opened once or twice as though to speak. Some imperious emotion seemed to be
trying to force its way. But he could not find words; and at last he returned the miniature
to his pocket, walked quietly to the door, and went out of the room.

The sound of the closing door brought immense relief to McEwen. He turned again in bed, and
relit his pipe, shaking off the impression left by the miniature as quickly as possible. What
business had George to upset him like that? He was down enough on his luck as it was.

He smoked away, gloomily thinking over the conversation. It didn't look like getting any money
out of this close-fisted Puritanical son of his. Survey indeed! McEwen found himself shaken
by a kind of internal convulsion as he thought of the revelations that would come out. George
was a fool.

In his feverish reverie, many lines of thought crossed and danced in his brain; and every now
and then he was tormented by the craving for alcohol. The Salvation Army proposal half amused,
half infuriated him. He knew all about their colonies. Trust him! Your own master for seventeen
years--mixed up in a lot of jobs it wouldn't do to go blabbing to the Mounted Police--and then
to finish up with those hymn-singing fellows!--George was most certainly a fool! Yet dollars
ought to be screwed out of him--somehow.

Presently, to get rid of some unpleasant reflections, the old man stretched out his hand for
a copy of the Vancouver Sentinel that was lying on the bed, and began to read it idly. As he
did so, a paragraph drew his attention. He gripped the paper, and, springing up in bed, read
it twice, peering into it, his features quivering with eagerness. The passage described the
"hold up" of a Northern Pacific train, at a point between Seattle and the Canadian border.
By the help of masks, and a few sticks of dynamite, the thing had been very smartly done--a
whole train terrorised, the mail van broken open and a large "swag" captured. Billy Symonds,
the notorious train robber from Montana, was suspected, and there was a hue and cry through
the whole border after him and his accomplices, amongst whom, so it was said, was a band from
the Canadian side--foreign miners mixed up in some of the acts of violence which had marked
the strike of the year before.

Bill Symonds!--McEwen threw himself excitedly from side to side, unable to keep still. He knew
Symonds--a chap and a half! Why didn't he come and try it on this side of the line? Heaps of
money going backwards and forwards over the railway! All these thousands of dollars paid out
in wages week by week to these construction camps--must come from somewhere in cash--Winnipeg
or Montreal. He began to play with the notion, elaborating and refining it; till presently
a whole epic of attack and capture was rushing through his half-crazy brain.

He had dropped the paper, and was staring abstractedly through the foot of open window close
beside him, which the torn blind did not cover. Outside, through the clearing with its stumps
of jack-pine, ran a path, a short cut, connecting the station at Laggan with a section-house
further up the line.

As McEwen's eyes followed it, he began to be aware of a group of men emerging from the trees
on the Laggan side, and walking in single file along the path. Navvies apparently--carrying
bundles and picks. The path came within a few yards of the window, and of the little stream
that supplied the house with water.

Suddenly, McEwen sprang up in bed. The two foremost men paused beside the water, mopped their
hot faces, and taking drinking cups out of their pockets stooped down to the stream. The old
man in the cabin bed watched them with fierce intentness; and as they straightened themselves
and were about to follow their companions who were already out of sight, he gave a low call.

The two started and looked round them. Their hands went to their pockets. McEwen swung himself
round so as to reach the window better, and repeated his call--this time with a different inflection.
The men exchanged a few hurried words. Carefully scrutinising the house, they noticed a newspaper
waving cautiously in an open window. One of them came forward, the other remained by the stream
bathing his feet and ankles in the water.

No one else was in sight. Mrs. Ginnell was cooking on the other side of the house. Anderson
had gone off to catch his train. For twenty minutes, the man outside leant against the window-sash
apparently lounging and smoking. Nothing could be seen from the path, but a battered blind
flapping in the June breeze, and a dark space of room beyond.

CHAPTER X

The days passed on. Philip in the comfortable hotel at Lake Louise was recovering steadily,
though not rapidly, from the general shock of immersion. Elizabeth, while nursing him tenderly,
could yet find time to walk and climb, plunging spirit and sense in the beauty of the Rockies.

On these excursions Delaine generally accompanied her; and she bore it well. Secretly she cherished
some astonishment and chagrin that Anderson could be with them so little on these bright afternoons
among the forest trails and upper lakes, although she generally found that the plans of the
day had been suggested and organised by him, by telephone from Laggan, to the kind and competent
Scotch lady who was the manager of the hotel. It seemed to her that he had promised his company;
whereas, as a rule, now he withheld it; and her pride was put to it, on her own part, not to
betray any sign of discontent. He spoke vaguely of "business," and on one occasion, apparently
had gone off for three days to Saskatchewan on matters connected with the coming general election.

From the newspaper, or the talk of visitors in the hotel, or the railway officials who occasionally
found their way to Lake Louise to make courteous inquiries after the English party, Elizabeth
became, indeed, more and more fully aware of the estimation in which Anderson was beginning
to be held. He was already a personage in the Northwest; was said to be sure of success in
his contest at Donaldminster, and of an immediate Parliamentary career at Ottawa. These prophecies
seemed to depend more upon the man's character than his actual achievements; though, indeed,
the story of the great strike, as she had gathered it once or twice from the lips of eye-witnesses,
was a fine one. For weeks he had carried his life in his hand among thousands of infuriated
navvies and miners--since the miners had made common cause with the railwaymen--with a cheerfulness,
daring, and resource which in the end had wrung success from an apparently hopeless situation;
a success attended, when all was over, by an amazing effusion of good will among both masters
and men, especially towards Anderson himself, and a general improvement in the industrial temper
and atmosphere of the Northwest.

The recital of these things stirred Elizabeth's pulses. But why did she never hear them from
himself? Surely he had offered her friendship, and the rights of friendship. How else could
he justify the scene at Field, when he had so brusquely probed her secret anxieties for Philip?
Her pride rebelled when she thought of it, when she recalled her wet eyes, her outstretched
hand. Mere humiliation!--in the case of a casual or indifferent acquaintance. No; on that day,
certainly, he had claimed the utmost privileges, had even strained the rights, of a friend,
a real friend. But his behaviour since had almost revived her first natural resentment.

Thoughts like these ran in her mind, and occasionally affected her manner when they did meet.
Anderson found her more reserved, and noticed that she did not so often ask him for small services
as of old. He suffered under the change; but it was, he knew, his own doing, and he did not
alter his course.

Whenever he did come, he sat mostly with Philip, over whom he had gradually established a remarkable
influence, not by any definite acts or speeches, but rather by the stoicism of his own mode
of life, coupled with a proud or laughing contempt for certain vices and self-indulgences to
which it was evident that he himself felt no temptation. As soon as Philip felt himself sufficiently
at home with the Canadian to begin to jibe at his teetotalism, Anderson seldom took the trouble
to defend himself; yet the passion of moral independence in his nature, of loathing for any
habit that weakens and enslaves the will, infected the English lad whether he would or no.
"There's lots of things he's stick-stock mad on," Philip would say impatiently to his sister.
But the madness told. And the madman was all the while consolingly rich in other, and, to Philip,
more attractive kinds of madness--the follies of the hunter and climber, of the man who holds
his neck as dross in comparison with the satisfaction of certain wild instincts that the Rockies
excite in him. Anderson had enjoyed his full share of adventures with goat and bear. Such things
are the customary amusements, it seemed, of a young engineer in the Rockies. Beside them, English
covert-shooting is a sport for babes; and Philip ceased to boast of his own prowess in that
direction. He would listen, indeed, open-mouthed, to Anderson's yarns, lying on his long chair
on the verandah--a graceful languid figure--with a coyote rug heaped about him. It was clear
to Elizabeth that Anderson on his side had become very fond of the boy. There was no trouble
he would not take for him. And gradually, silently, proudly, she allowed him to take less and
less for herself.

Once or twice Arthur Delaine's clumsy hints occurred to her. Was there, indeed, some private
matter weighing on the young man's mind? She would not allow herself to speculate upon it;
though she could not help watching the relation between the two men with some curiosity. It
was polite enough; but there was certainly no cordiality in it; and once or twice she suspected
a hidden understanding.

Delaine meanwhile felt a kind of dull satisfaction in the turn of events. The intimacy between
Anderson and Lady Merton had clearly been checked, or was at least not advancing. Whether it
was due to his own hints to Elizabeth, or to Anderson's chivalrous feeling, he did not know.
But he wrote every mail to Mrs. Gaddesden, discreetly, yet not without giving her some significant
information; he did whatever small services were possible in the case of a man who went about
Canada as a Johnny Head-in-air, with his mind in another hemisphere; and it was understood
that he was to leave them at Vancouver. In the forced association of their walks and rides,
Elizabeth showed herself gay, kind, companionable; although often, and generally for no reason
that he could discover, something sharp and icy in her would momentarily make itself felt,
and he would find himself driven back within bounds that he had perhaps been tempted to transgress.
And the result of it all was that he fell day by day more tormentingly in love with her. Those
placid matrimonial ambitions with which he had left England had been all swept away; and as
he followed her--she on pony-back, he on foot--along the mountain trails, watching the lightness
of her small figure against the splendid background of peak and pine, he became a troubled,
introspective person; concentrating upon himself and his disagreeable plight the attention
he had hitherto given to a delightful outer world, sown with the caches of antiquity, in order
to amuse him.

Meanwhile the situation in the cabin at Laggan appeared to be steadily improving. McEwen had
abruptly ceased to be a rebellious and difficult patient. The doctor's orders had been obeyed;
the leg had healed rapidly; and he no longer threatened or cajoled Mrs. Ginnell on the subject
of liquor. As far as Anderson was concerned, he was generally sulky and uncommunicative. But
Anderson got enough out of him by degrees to be able to form a fairly complete idea of his
father's course of life since the false report of his death in the Yukon. He realised an existence
on the fringe of civilisation, with its strokes of luck neutralised by drink, and its desperate,
and probably criminal, moments. And as soon as his father got well enough to limp along the
trails of the Laggan valley, the son noticed incidents which appeared to show that the old
man, while playing the part of the helpless stranger, was by no means without acquaintance
among the motley host of workmen that were constantly passing through. The links of international
trades unionism no doubt accounted for it. But in McEwen's case, the fraternity to which he
belonged seemed to apply only to the looser and more disreputable elements among the emigrant
throng.

But at the same time he had shown surprising docility in the matter of Anderson's counsels.
All talk of the Idaho mine had dropped between them, as though by common consent. Anderson
had laid hands upon a young man, a Salvation Army officer in Vancouver, with whom his father
consented to lodge for the next six weeks; and further arrangements were to be postponed till
the end of that period. Anderson hoped, indeed, to get his father settled there before Lady
Merton moved from Lake Louise. For in a few days now, the private car was to return from the
coast, in order to take up the English party.

McEwen's unexpected complaisance led to a great softening in Anderson's feeling towards his
father. All those inner compunctions that haunt a just and scrupulous nature came freely into
play. And his evangelical religion--for he was a devout though liberal-minded Presbyterian--also
entered in. Was it possible that he might be the agent of his father's redemption? The idea,
the hope, produced in him occasional hidden exaltations--flights of prayer--mystical memories
of his mother--which lightened what was otherwise a time of bitter renunciation, and determined
wrestling with himself.

During the latter days of this fortnight, indeed, he could not do enough for his father. He
had made all the Vancouver arrangements; he had supplied him amply with clothes and other personal
necessaries; and he came home early at night in order to sit and smoke with him. Mrs. Ginnell,
looking in of an evening, beheld what seemed to her a touching sight, though one far beyond
the deserts of such creatures as McEwen--the son reading the newspaper aloud, or playing dominoes
with his father, or just smoking and chatting. Her hard common sense as a working-woman suggested
to her that Anderson was nursing illusions; and she scornfully though silently hoped that the
"old rip" would soon, one way or another, be off his shoulders.

But the illusions, for the moment, were Anderson's sustenance. His imagination, denied a more
personal and passionate food, gave itself with fire to the redeeming of an outlaw, and the
paying of a spiritual debt.

It was Wednesday. After a couple of drizzling days the weather was again fair. The trains rolling
through the pass began with these early days of July to bring a first crop of holiday-makers
from Eastern Canada and the States; the hotels were filling up. On the morrow McEwen was to
start for Vancouver. And a letter from Philip Gaddesden, delivered at Laggan in the morning,
had bitterly reproached Anderson for neglecting them, and leaving him, in particular, to be
bored to death by glaciers and tourists.

Early in the afternoon Anderson took his way up the mountain road to Lake Louise. He found
the English travellers established among the pines by the lake-side, Philip half asleep in
a hammock strung between two pines, while Delaine was reading to Elizabeth from an article
in an archæological review on "Some Fresh Light on the Cippus of Palestrina."

Lady Merton was embroidering; it seemed to Anderson that she was tired or depressed. Delaine's
booming voice, and the frequent Latin passages interspersed with stammering translations of
his own, in which he appeared to be interminably tangled, would be enough--the Canadian thought--to
account for a subdued demeanour; and there was, moreover, a sudden thunderous heat in the afternoon.

Elizabeth received him a little stiffly, and Philip roused himself from sleep only to complain:
"You've been four mortal days without coming near us!"

"I had to go away. I have been to Regina."

"On politics?" asked Delaine.

"Yes. We had a couple of meetings and a row."

"Jolly for you!" grumbled Philip. "But we've had a beastly time. Ask Elizabeth."

"Nothing but the weather!" said Elizabeth carelessly. "We couldn't even see the mountains."

But why, as she spoke, should the delicate cheek change colour, suddenly and brightly? The
answering blood leapt in Anderson. She had missed him, though she would not show it.

Delaine began to question him about Saskatchewan. The Englishman's forms of conversation were
apt to be tediously inquisitive, and Anderson had often resented them. To-day, however, he
let himself be catechised patiently enough, while all the time conscious, from head to foot,
of one person only--one near and yet distant person.

Elizabeth wore a dress of white linen, and a broad hat of soft blue. The combination of the
white and blue with her brown hair, and the pale refinement of her face, seemed to him ravishing,
enchanting. So were the movements of her hands at work, and all the devices of her light self-command;
more attractive, infinitely, to his mature sense than the involuntary tremor of girlhood.

"Hallo! What does Stewart want?" said Philip, raising himself in his hammock. The hunter who
had been the companion of his first unlucky attempt at fishing was coming towards them. The
boy sprang to the ground, and, vowing that he would fish the following morning whatever Elizabeth
might say, went off to consult.

She looked after him with a smile and a sigh.

"Better give him his head!" laughed Anderson. Then, from where he stood, he studied her a moment,
unseen, except by Delaine, who was sitting among the moss a few yards away, and had temporarily
forgotten the Cippus of Palestrina.

Suddenly the Canadian came forward.

"Have you explored that path yet, over the shoulder?" he said to Lady Merton, pointing to the
fine promontory of purple piny rock which jutted out in front of the glacier on the southern
side of the lake.

She shook her head; but was it not still too early and too hot to walk? Anderson persisted.
The path was in shade, and would repay climbing. She hesitated--and yielded; making a show
of asking Delaine to come with them. Delaine also hesitated, and refrained; making a show of
preferring the "Archaeological Review." He was left to watch them mount the first stretches
of the trail; while Philip strolled along the lake with his companion in the slouch hat and
leggings, deep in tales of bass and trout.

Elizabeth and Anderson climbed a long sloping ascent through the pines. The air was warm and
scented; the heat of the sun on the moistened earth was releasing all its virtues and fragrances,
overpowering in the open places, and stealing even through the shadows. When the trees broke
or receded, the full splendour of the glacier was upon them to their left; and then for a space
they must divine it as a presence behind the actual, faintly gleaming and flashing through
the serried ranks of the forest. There were heaths and mosses under the pines; but otherwise
for a while the path was flowerless; and Elizabeth discontentedly remarked it. Anderson smiled.

"Wait a little--or you'll have to apologise to the Rockies."

He looked down upon her, and saw that her small face had bloomed into a vivacity and charm
that startled him. Was it only the physical effort and pleasure of the climb? As for himself,
it took all the power of a strong will to check the happy tumult in his heart.

Elizabeth asked him of his Saskatchewan journey. He described to her the growing town he hoped
to represent--the rush of its new life.

"On one Sunday morning there was nothing--the bare prairie; by the next--so to speak--there
was a town all complete, with a hotel, an elevator, a bank, and a church. That was ten years
ago. Then the railway came; I saw the first train come in, garlanded and wreathed with flowers.
Now there are eight thousand people. They have reserved land for a park along the river, and
sent for a landscape gardener from England to lay it out; they have made trees grow on the
prairie; they have built a high school and a concert hall; the municipality is full of ambitions;
and all round the town, settlers are pouring in. On market day you find yourself in a crowd
of men, talking cattle and crops, the last thing in binders and threshers, as farmers do all
over the world. But yet you couldn't match that crowd in the old world."

"Which you don't know," put in Elizabeth, with her sly smile.

"Which I don't know," repeated Anderson meekly. "But I guess. And I am thinking of sayings
of yours. Where in Europe can you match the sense of boundlessness we have here--boundless
space, boundless opportunity? It often makes fools of us: it intoxicates, turns our heads.
There is a germ of madness in this Northwest. I have seen men destroyed by it. But it is Nature
who is the witch. She brews the cup."

"All very well for the men," Elizabeth said, musing--"and the strong men. About the women in
this country I can't make up my mind."

"You think of the drudgery, the domestic hardships?"

"There are some ladies in the hotel, from British Columbia. They are in easy circumstances--and
the daughter is dying of overwork! The husband has a large fruit farm, but they can get no
service; the fruit rots on the ground; and the two women are worn to death."

"Aye," said Anderson gravely. "This country breeds life, but it also devours it."

"I asked these two women--Englishwomen--if they wanted to go home, and give it up. They fell
upon me with scorn."

"And you?"

Elizabeth sighed.

"I admired them. But could I imitate them? I thought of the house at home; of the old servants;
how it runs on wheels; how pretty and--and dignified it all is; everybody at their post; no
drudgery, no disorder."

"It is a dignity that costs you dear," said Anderson almost roughly, and with a change of countenance.
"You sacrifice to it things a thousand times more real, more human."

"Do we?" said Elizabeth; and then, with a drop in her voice: "Dear, dear England!" She paused
to take breath, and as she leant resting against a tree he saw her expression change, as though
a struggle passed through her.

The trees had opened behind them, and they looked back over the lake, the hotel, and the wide
Laggan valley beyond. In all that valley, not a sign of human life, but the line of the railway.
Not a house, not a village to be seen; and at this distance the forest appeared continuous,
till it died against the rock and snow of the higher peaks.

For the first time, Elizabeth was home-sick; for the first time she shrank from a raw, untamed
land where the House of Life is only now rearing its walls and its roof-timbers, and all its
warm furnishings, its ornaments and hangings are still to add. She thought of the English landscapes,
of the woods and uplands round her Cumberland home; of the old church, the embowered cottages,
the lichened farms; the generations of lives that have died into the soil, like the summer
leaves of the trees; of the ghosts to be felt in the air--ghosts of squire and labourer and
farmer, alive still in men and women of the present, as they too will live in the unborn. Her
heart went out to England; fled back to it over the seas, as though renewing, in penitence,
an allegiance that had wavered. And Anderson divined it, in the yearning of her just-parted
lips, in the quivering, restrained sweetness of her look.

His own heart sank. They resumed their walk, and presently the path grew steeper. Some of it
was rough-hewn in the rock, and encumbered by roots of trees. Anderson held out a helping hand;
her fingers slipped willingly into it; her light weight hung upon him, and every step was to
him a mingled delight and bitterness.

"Hard work!" he said presently, with his encouraging smile; "but you'll be paid."

The pines grew closer, and then suddenly lightened. A few more steps, and Elizabeth gave a
cry of pleasure. They were on the edge of an alpine meadow, encircled by dense forest, and
sloping down beneath their feet to a lake that lay half in black shadow, half blazing in the
afternoon sun. Beyond was a tossed wilderness of peaks to west and south. Light masses of cumulus
cloud were rushing over the sky, and driving waves of blue and purple colour across the mountain
masses and the forest slopes. Golden was the sinking light and the sunlit half of the lake;
golden the western faces and edges of the mountain world; while beyond the valley, where ran
the white smoke of a train, there hung in the northern sky a dream-world of undiscovered snows,
range, it seemed, beyond range, remote, ethereal; a Valhalla of the old gods of this vast land,
where one might guess them still throned at bay, majestic, inviolate.

But it was the flowers that held Elizabeth mute. Anderson had brought her to a wild garden
of incredible beauty. Scarlet and blue, purple and pearl and opal, rose-pink and lavender-grey
the flower-field ran about her, as though Persephone herself had just risen from the shadow
of this nameless northern lake, and the new earth had broken into eager flame at her feet.
Painter's brush, harebell, speedwell, golden-brown gaillardias, silvery hawkweed, columbines
yellow and blue, heaths, and lush grasses--Elizabeth sank down among them in speechless joy.
Anderson gathered handfuls of columbine and vetch, of harebell and heath, and filled her lap
with them, till she gently stopped him.

"No! Let me only look!"

And with her hands around her knees she sat motionless and still. Anderson threw himself down
beside her. Fragrance, colour, warmth; the stir of an endless self-sufficient life; the fruitfulness
and bounty of the earth; these things wove their ancient spells about them. Every little rush
of the breeze seemed an invitation and a caress.

Presently she thanked him for having brought her there, and said something of remembering it
in England.

"As one who will never see it again?" He turned and faced her smiling. But behind his frank,
pleasant look there was something from which she shrank.

"I shall hardly see it, again," she said hesitating. "Perhaps that makes it the more--the more
touching. One clings to it the more--the impression--because it is so fugitive--will be so
soon gone."

He was silent a moment, then said abruptly:

"And the upshot of all this is, that you could not imagine living in Canada?"

She started.

"I never said so. Of course I could imagine living in Canada!"

"But you think, for women, the life up here--in the Northwest--is too hard."

She looked at him timidly.

"That's because I look at it from my English point of view. I am afraid English life makes
weaklings of us."

"No--not of you!" he said, almost scornfully. "Any life that seemed to you worth while would
find you strong enough for it. I am sure of that."

Elizabeth smiled and shrugged her shoulders. He went on--almost as though pleading with her.

"And as to our Western life--which you will soon have left so far behind--it strains and tests
the women--true--but it rewards them. They have a great place among us. It is like the women
of the early races. We listen to them in the house, and on the land; we depend on them indoors
and out; their husbands and their sons worship them!"

Elizabeth flushed involuntarily; but she met him gaily.

"In England too! Come and see!"

"I shall probably be in England next spring."

Elizabeth made a sudden movement.

"I thought you would be in political life here!"

"I have had an offer--an exciting and flattering offer. May I tell you?"

He turned to her eagerly; and she smiled her sympathy, her curiosity. Whereupon he took a letter
from his pocket--a letter from the Dominion Prime Minister, offering him a mission of inquiry
to England, on some important matters connected with labour and emigration. The letter was
remarkable, addressed to a man so young, and on the threshold of his political career.

Elizabeth congratulated him warmly.

"Of course you will come to stay with us!"

It was his turn to redden.

"You are very kind," he said formally. "As you know, I shall have everything to learn."

"I will show you our farms!" cried Elizabeth, "and all our dear decrepit life--our little chessboard
of an England."

"How proud you are, you Englishwomen!" he said, half frowning. "You run yourselves down--and
at bottom there is a pride like Lucifer's."

"But it is not my pride," she said, hurt, "any more than yours. We are yours--and you are ours.
One state--one country."

"No, don't let us sentimentalise. We have our own future. It is not yours."

"But you are loyal!" The note was one of pain.

"Are we? Foolish word! Yes, we are loyal, as you are--loyal to a common ideal, a common mission
in the world."

"To blood also--and to history?" Her voice was almost entreating. What he had said seemed to
jar with other and earlier sayings of his, which had stirred in her a patriotic pleasure.

He smiled at her emotion--her implied reproach.

"Yes, we stand together. We march together. But Canada will have her own history; and you must
not try to make it for her."

Their eyes met; in hers exaltion, in his a touch of sternness, a moment's revelation of the
Covenanter in his soul.

Then as the delightful vision of her among the flowers, in her white dress, the mountains behind
and around her, imprinted itself on his senses, he was conscious of a moment of intolerable
pain. Between her and him--as it were--the abyss opened. The trembling waves of colour in the
grass, the noble procession of the clouds, the gleaming of the snows, the shadow of the valleys--they
were all wiped out. He saw instead a small unsavoury room--the cunning eyes and coarse mouth
of his father. He saw his own future as it must now be; weighted with this burden, this secret;
if indeed it were still to be a secret; if it were not rather the wiser and the manlier plan
to have done with secrecy.

Elizabeth rose with a little shiver. The wind had begun to blow cold from the northwest.

"How soon can we run down? I hope Mr. Arthur will have sent Philip indoors."

Anderson left Lake Louise about eight o'clock, and hurried down the Laggan road. His mind was
divided between the bitter-sweet of these last hours with Elizabeth Merton, and anxieties,
small practical anxieties, about his father. There were arrangements still to make. He was
not himself going to Vancouver. McEwen had lately shown a strong and petulant wish to preserve
his incognito, or what was left of it. He would not have his son's escort. George might come
and see him at Vancouver; and that would be time enough to settle up for the winter.

So Ginnell, owner of the boarding house, a stalwart Irishman of six foot three, had been appointed
to see him through his journey, settle him with his new protectors, and pay all necessary expenses.

Anderson knocked at his father's door and was allowed to enter. He found McEwen walking up
and down his room, with the aid of a stick, irritably pushing chairs and clothes out of his
way. The room was in squalid disorder, and its inmate had a flushed, exasperated look that
did not escape Anderson's notice. He thought it probable that his father was already repenting
his consent to go to Vancouver, and he avoided general conversation as much as possible.

McEwen complained of having been left alone; abused Mrs. Ginnell; vowed she had starved and
ill-treated him; and then, to Anderson's surprise, broke out against his son for having refused
to provide him with the money he wanted for the mine, and so ruined his last chance. Anderson
hardly replied; but what he did say was as soothing as possible; and at last the old man flung
himself on his bed, excitement dying away in a sulky taciturnity.

Before Anderson left his room, Ginnell came in, bringing his accounts for certain small expenses.
Anderson, standing with his back to his father, took out a pocketbook full of bills. At Calgary
the day before a friend had repaid him a loan of a thousand dollars. He gave Ginnell a certain
sum; talked to him in a low voice for a time, thinking his father had dropped asleep; and then
dismissed him, putting the money in his pocket.

"Good night, father," he said, standing beside the bed.

McEwen opened his eyes.

"Eh?"

The eyes into which Anderson looked had no sleep in them. They were wild and bloodshot, and
again Anderson felt a pang of helpless pity for a dishonoured and miserable old age.

"I'm sure you'll get on at Vancouver, father," he said gently. "And I shall be there next week."

His father growled some unintelligible answer. As Anderson went to the door he again called
after him angrily: "You were a d---- fool, George, not to find those dibs."

"What, for the mine?" Anderson laughed. "Oh, we'll go into that again at Vancouver."

McEwen made no reply, and Anderson left him.

Anderson woke before seven. The long evening had passed into the dawn with scarcely any darkness,
and the sun was now high. He sprang up, and dressed hastily. Going into the passage he saw
to his astonishment that while the door of the Ginnells' room was still closed, his father's
was wide open. He walked in. The room and the bed were empty. The contents of a box carefully
packed by Ginnell--mostly with new clothes--the night before, were lying strewn about the room.
But McEwen's old clothes were gone, his gun and revolver, also his pipes and tobacco.

Anderson roused Ginnell, and they searched the house and its neighbourhood in vain. On going
back into his own room, Anderson noticed an open drawer. He had placed his pocketbook there
the night before, but without locking the drawer. It was gone, and in its place was a dirty
scrap of paper.

"Don't you try chivvying me, George, for you won't get any good of it. You let me alone, and
I'll let you. You were a stingy fellow about that money, so I've took some of it. Good-bye."

Sick at heart, Anderson resumed the search, further afield. He sent Ginnell along the line
to make confidential inquiries. He telegraphed to persons known to him at Golden, Revelstoke,
Kamloops, Ashcroft, all to no purpose. Twenty-four--thirty-six hours passed and nothing had
been heard of the fugitive.

He felt himself baffled and tricked, with certain deep instincts and yearnings wounded to the
death. The brutal manner of his father's escape--the robbery--the letter--had struck him hard.

When Friday night came, and still no news, Anderson found himself at the C.P.R. Hotel at Field.
He was stupid with fatigue and depression. But he had been in telephonic communication all
the afternoon with Delaine and Lady Merton at Lake Louise, as to their departure for the Pacific.
They knew nothing and should know nothing of his own catastrophe; their plans should not suffer.

He went out into the summer night to take breath, and commune with himself. The night was balmy;
the stars glorious. On a siding near the hotel stood the private car which had arrived that
evening from Vancouver, and was to go to Laggan the following morning to fetch the English
party. They were to pick him up, on the return, at Field.

He had failed to save his father, and his honest effort had been made in vain. Humiliation
and disappointment overshadowed him. Passionately, his whole soul turned to Elizabeth. He did
not yet grasp all the bearings of what had happened. But he began to count the hours to the
time when he should see her.

CHAPTER XI

A day of showers and breaking clouds--of sudden sunlight, and broad clefts of blue; a day when
shreds of mist are lightly looped and meshed about the higher peaks of the Rockies and the
Selkirks, dividing the forest world from the ice world above....

The car was slowly descending the Kicking Horse Pass, at the rear of a heavy train. Elizabeth,
on her platform, was feasting her eyes once more on the great savage landscape, on these peaks
and valleys that have never till now known man, save as the hunter, treading them once or twice
perhaps in a century. Dreamily her mind contrasted them with the Alps, where from all time
man has laboured and sheltered, blending his life, his births and deaths, his loves and hates
with the glaciers and the forests, wresting his food from the valleys, creeping height over
height to the snow line, writing his will on the country, so that in our thought of it he stands
first, and Nature second. The Swiss mountains and streams breathe a "mighty voice," lent to
them by the free passion and aspiration of man; they are interfused and interwoven forever
with human fate. But in the Rockies and the Selkirks man counts for nothing in their past;
and, except as wayfarer and playfellow, it is probable that he will count for nothing in their
future. They will never be the familiar companions of his work and prayer and love; a couple
of railways, indeed, will soon be driving through them, linking the life of the prairies to
the life of the Pacific; but, except for this conquest of them as barriers in his path, when
his summer camps in them are struck, they, sheeted in a winter inaccessible and superb, know
him and his puny deeds no more, till again the lakes melt and the trees bud. This it is that
gives them their strange majesty, and clothes their brief summer, their laughing fields of
flowers, their thickets of red raspberry and slopes of strawberry, their infinity of gleaming
lakes and foaming rivers--rivers that turn no mill and light no town--with a charm, half magical,
half mocking.

And yet, though the travelled intelligence made comparisons of this kind, it was not with the
mountains that Elizabeth's deepest mind was busy. She took really keener note of the railway
itself, and its appurtenances. For here man had expressed himself; had pitched his battle with
a fierce nature and won it; as no doubt he will win other similar battles in the coming years.
Through Anderson this battle had become real to her. She looked eagerly at the construction
camps in the pass; at the new line that is soon to supersede the old; at the bridges and tunnels
and snow-sheds, by which contriving man had made his purpose prevail over the physical forces
of this wild world. The great railway spoke to her in terms of human life; and because she
had known Anderson she understood its message.

Secretly and sorely her thoughts clung to him. Just as, insensibly, her vision of Canada had
changed, so had her vision of Anderson. Canada was no longer mere fairy tale and romance; Anderson
was no longer merely its picturesque exponent or representative. She had come to realise him
as a man, with a man's cares and passions; and her feelings about him had begun to change her life.

Arthur Delaine, she supposed, had meant to warn her that Mr. Anderson was falling in love with
her and that she had no right to encourage it. Her thoughts went back intently over the last
fortnight--Anderson's absences--his partial withdrawal from the intimacy which had grown up
between himself and her--their last walk at Lake Louise. The delight of that walk was still
in her veins, and at last she was frank with herself about it! In his attitude towards her,
now that she forced herself to face the truth, she must needs recognise a passionate eagerness,
restrained no less passionately; a profound impulse, strongly felt, and strongly held back.
By mere despair of attainment?--or by the scruple of an honourable self-control?

Could she--could she marry a Canadian? There was the central question, out at last!--irrevocable!--writ
large on the mountains and the forests, as she sped through them. Could she, possessed by inheritance
of all that is most desirable and delightful in English society, linked with its great interests
and its dominant class, and through them with the rich cosmopolitan life of cultivated Europe--could
she tear herself from that old soil, and that dear familiar environment? Had the plant vitality
enough to bear transplanting? She did not put her question in these terms; but that was what
her sudden tumult and distress of mind really meant.

Looking up, she saw Delaine beside her. Well, there was Europe, and at her feet! For the last
month she had been occupied in scorning it. English country-house life, artistic society and
pursuits, London in the season, Paris and Rome in the spring, English social and political
influence--there they were beside her. She had only to stretch out her hand.

A chill, uncomfortable laughter seemed to fill the inner mind through which the debate passed,
while all the time she was apparently looking at the landscape, and chatting with her brother
or Delaine. She fell into an angry contempt for that mood of imaginative delight in which she
had journeyed through Canada so far. What! treat a great nation in the birth as though it were
there for her mere pleasure and entertainment? Make of it a mere spectacle and pageant, and
turn with disgust from the notion that you, too, could ever throw in your lot with it, fight
as a foot-soldier in its ranks, on equal terms, for life and death!

She despised herself. And yet--and yet! She thought of her mother--her frail, refined, artistic
mother; of a hundred subtleties and charms and claims, in that world she understood, in which
she had been reared; of all that she must leave behind, were she asked, and did she consent,
to share the life of a Canadian of Anderson's type. What would it be to fail in such a venture!
To dare it, and then to find life sinking in sands of cowardice and weakness! Very often, and
sometimes as though by design, Anderson had spoken to her of the part to be played by women
in Canada; not in the defensive, optimistic tone of their last walk together, but forbiddingly,
with a kind of rough insistence. Substantial comfort, a large amount of applied science--that
could be got. But the elegancies and refinements of English rich life in a prairie farm--impossible!
A woman who marries a Canadian farmer, large or small, must put her own hands to the drudgery
of life, to the cooking, sewing, baking, that keep man--animal man--alive. A certain amount
of rude service money can command in the Northwest; but it is a service which only the housewife's
personal coöperation can make tolerable. Life returns, in fact, to the old primitive pattern;
and a woman counts on the prairie according as "she looketh well to the ways of her household
and eateth not the bread of idleness."

Suddenly Elizabeth perceived her own hands lying on her lap. Useless bejewelled things! When
had they ever fed a man or nursed a child?

Under her gauze veil she coloured fiercely. If the housewife, in her primitive meaning and
office, is vital to Canada, still more is the house-mother. "Bear me sons and daughters; people
my wastes!" seems to be the cry of the land itself. Deep in Elizabeth's being there stirred
instincts and yearnings which life had so far stifled in her. She shivered as though some voice,
passionate and yet austere, spoke to her from this great spectacle of mountain and water through
which she was passing.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There he is!" cried Philip, craning his head to look ahead along the train.

Anderson stood waiting for them on the Field platform. Very soon he was seated beside her,
outside the car, while Philip lounged in the doorway, and Delaine inside, having done his duty
to the Kicking Horse Pass, was devoting himself to a belated number of the "Athenæum" which
had just reached him.

Philip had stored up a string of questions as to the hunting of goat in the Rockies, and impatiently
produced them. Anderson replied, but, as Elizabeth immediately perceived, with a complete lack
of his usual animation. He spoke with effort, occasionally stumbling over his words. She could
not help looking at him curiously, and presently even Philip noticed something wrong.

"I say, Anderson!--what have you been doing to yourself? You look as though you had been knocking
up."

"I have been a bit driven this week," said Anderson, with a start. "Oh, nothing! You must look
at this piece of line."

And as they ran down the long ravine from Field to Golden, beside a river which all the way
seems to threaten the gliding train by the savage force of its descent, he played the showman.
The epic of the C.P.R.--no one knew it better, and no one could recite it more vividly than he.

So also, as they left the Rockies behind; as they sped along the Columbia between the Rockies
to their right and the Selkirks to their left; or as they turned away from the Columbia, and,
on the flanks of the Selkirks, began to mount that forest valley which leads to Roger's Pass,
he talked freely and well, exerting himself to the utmost. The hopes and despairs, the endurances
and ambitions of the first explorers who ever broke into that fierce solitude, he could reproduce
them; for, though himself of a younger generation, yet by sympathy he had lived them. And if
he had not been one of the builders of the line, in the incessant guardianship which preserves
it from day to day, he had at one time played a prominent part, battling with Nature for it,
summer and winter.

Delaine, at last, came out to listen. Philip in the grip of his first hero-worship, lay silent
and absorbed, watching the face and gestures of the speaker. Elizabeth sat with her eyes turned
away from Anderson towards the wild valley, as they rose and rose above it. She listened; but
her heart was full of new anxieties. What had happened to him? She felt him changed. He was
talking for their pleasure, by a strong effort of will; that she realised. When could she get
him alone?--her friend!--who was clearly in distress.

They approached the famous bridges on the long ascent. Yerkes came running through the car
to point out with pride the place where the Grand Duchess had fainted beneath the terrors of
the line. With only the railing of their little platform between them and the abyss, they ran
over ravines hundreds of feet deep--the valley, a thousand feet sheer, below. And in that valley,
not a sign of house, of path; only black impenetrable forest--huge cedars and Douglas pines,
filling up the bottoms, choking the river with their débris, climbing up the further sides,
towards the gleaming line of peaks.

"It is a nightmare!" said Delaine involuntarily, looking round him.

Elizabeth laughed, a bright colour in her cheeks. Again the wilderness ran through her blood,
answering the challenge of Nature. Faint!--she was more inclined to sing or shout. And with
the exhilaration, physical and mental, that stole upon her, there mingled secretly, the first
thrill of passion she had ever known. Anderson sat beside her, once more silent after his burst
of talk. She was vividly conscious of him--of his bare curly head--of certain lines of fatigue
and suffering in the bronzed face. And it was conveyed to her that, although he was clearly
preoccupied and sad, he was yet conscious of her in the same way. Once, as they were passing
the highest bridge of all, where, carried on a great steel arch, that has replaced the older
trestles, the rails run naked and gleaming, without the smallest shred of wall or parapet,
across a gash in the mountain up which they were creeping, and at a terrific height above the
valley, Elizabeth, who was sitting with her back to the engine, bent suddenly to one side,
leaning over the little railing and looking ahead--that she might if possible get a clearer
sight of Mount Macdonald, the giant at whose feet lies Roger's Pass. Suddenly, as her weight
pressed against the ironwork where only that morning a fastening had been mended, she felt
a grip on her arm. She drew back, startled.

"I beg your pardon!" said Anderson, smiling, but a trifle paler than before. "I'm not troubled
with nerves for myself, but--"

He did not complete the sentence, and Elizabeth, could find nothing to say.

"Why, Elizabeth's not afraid!" cried Philip, scornfully.

"This is Roger's Pass, and here we are at the top of the Selkirks," said Anderson, rising.
"The train will wait here some twenty minutes. Perhaps you would like to walk about."

They descended, all but Philip, who grumbled at the cold, wrapped himself in a rug inside the
car, and summoned Yerkes to bring him a cup of coffee.

On this height indeed, and beneath the precipices of Mount Macdonald, which rise some five
thousand feet perpendicularly above the railway, the air was chill and the clouds had gathered.
On the right, ran a line of glacier-laden peaks, calling to their fellows across the pass.
The ravine itself, darkly magnificent, made a gulf of shadow out of which rose glacier and
snow slope, now veiled and now revealed by scudding cloud. Heavy rain had not long since fallen
on the pass; the small stream, winding and looping through the narrow strip of desolate ground
which marks the summit, roared in flood through marshy growths of dank weed and stunted shrub;
and the noise reverberated from the mountain walls, pressing straight and close on either hand.

"Hark!" cried Elizabeth, standing still, her face and her light dress beaten by the wind.

A sound which was neither thunder nor the voice of the stream rose and swelled and filled the
pass. Another followed it. Anderson pointed to the snowy crags of Mount Macdonald, and there,
leaping from ledge to ledge, they saw the summer avalanches descend, roaring as they came,
till they sank engulfed in a vaporous whirl of snow.

Delaine tried to persuade Elizabeth to return to the car--in vain. He himself returned thither
for a warmer coat, and she and Anderson walked on alone.

"The Rockies were fine!--but the Selkirks are superb!"

She smiled at him as she spoke, as though she thanked him personally for the grandeur round
them. Her slender form seemed to have grown in stature and in energy. The mountain rain was
on her fresh cheek and her hair; a blue veil eddying round her head and face framed the brilliance
of her eyes. Those who had known Elizabeth in Europe would hardly have recognised her here.
The spirit of earth's wild and virgin places had mingled with her spirit, and as she had grown
in sympathy, so also she had grown in beauty. Anderson looked at her from time to time in enchantment,
grudging every minute that passed. The temptation strengthened to tell her his trouble. But
how, or when?

As he turned to her he saw that she, too, was gazing at him with an anxious, wistful expression,
her lips parted as though to speak.

He bent over her.

"What was that?" exclaimed Elizabeth, looking round her.

They had passed beyond the station where the train was at rest. But the sound of shouts pursued
them. Anderson distinguished his own name. A couple of railway officials had left the station
and were hurrying towards them.

A sudden thought struck Anderson. He held up his hand with a gesture as though to ask Lady
Merton not to follow, and himself ran back to the station.

Elizabeth, from where she stood, saw the passengers all pouring out of the train on to the
platform. Even Philip emerged and waved to her. She slowly returned, and meanwhile Anderson
had disappeared.

She found an excited crowd of travellers and a babel of noise. Delaine hurried to her.

It appeared that an extraordinary thing had happened. The train immediately in front of them,
carrying mail and express cars but no passengers, had been "held up" by a gang of train-robbers,
at a spot between Sicamous junction and Kamloops. In order to break open the mail van the robbers
had employed a charge of dynamite, which had wrecked the car and caused some damage to the
line; enough to block the permanent way for some hours.

"And Philip has just opened this telegram for you."

Delaine handed it to her. It was from the District Superintendent, expressing great regret
for the interruption to their journey, and suggesting that they should spend the night at the
hotel at Glacier.

"Which I understand is only four miles off, the other side of the pass," said Delaine. "Was
there ever anything more annoying!"

Elizabeth's face expressed an utter bewilderment.

"A train held up in Canada--and on the C.P.R.--impossible!"

An elderly man in front of her heard what she said, and turned upon her a face purple with wrath.

"You may well say that, madam! We are a law-abiding nation. We don't put up with the pranks
they play in Montana. They say the scoundrels have got off. If we don't catch them, Canada's
disgraced."

"I say, Elizabeth," cried Philip, pushing his way to her through the crowd, "there's been a
lot of shooting. There's some Mounted Police here, we picked up at Revelstoke, on their way
to help catch these fellows. I've been talking to them. The police from Kamloops came upon
them just as they were making off with a pretty pile--boxes full of money for some of the banks
in Vancouver. The police fired, so did the robbers. One of the police was killed, and one of
the thieves. Then the rest got off. I say, let's go and help hunt them!"

The boy's eyes danced with the joy of adventure.

"If they've any sense they'll send bloodhounds after them," said the elderly man, fiercely.
"I helped catch a murderer with my own hands that way, last summer, near the Arrow Lakes."

"Where is Mr. Anderson?"

The question escaped Elizabeth involuntarily. She had not meant to put it. But it was curious
that he should have left them in the lurch at this particular moment.

"Take your seats!" cried the station-master, making his way through the crowded platform. "This
train goes as far as Sicamous Junction only. Any passenger who wishes to break his journey
will find accommodation at Glacier--next station."

The English travellers were hurried back into their car. Still no sign of Anderson. Yerkes
was only able to tell them that he had seen Anderson go into the station-master's private room
with a couple of the Mounted Police. He might have come out again, or he might not. Yerkes
had been too well occupied in exciting gossip with all his many acquaintances in the train
and the station to notice.

The conductor went along through the train. Yerkes, standing on the inside platform, called to him:

"Have you seen Mr. Anderson?"

The man shook his head, but another standing by, evidently an official of some kind, looked
round and ran up to the car.

"I'm sorry, madam," he said, addressing Elizabeth, who was standing in the doorway, "but Mr.
Anderson isn't at liberty just now. He'll be travelling with the police."

And as he spoke a door in the station building opened, and Anderson came out, accompanied by
two constables of the Mounted Police and two or three officials. They walked hurriedly along
the train and got into an empty compartment together. Immediately afterwards the train moved off.

"Well, I wonder what's up now!" said Philip in astonishment. "Do you suppose Anderson's got
some clue to the men?"

Delaine looked uncomfortably at Elizabeth. As an old adviser and servant of the railway, extensively
acquainted moreover with the population--settled or occasional--of the district it was very
natural that Anderson should be consulted on such an event. And yet--Delaine had caught a glimpse
of his aspect on his way along the platform, and had noticed that he never looked towards the
car. Some odd conjectures ran through his mind.

Elizabeth sat silent, looking back on the grim defile the train was just leaving. It was evident
that they had passed the water-shed, and the train was descending. In a few minutes they would
be at Glacier.

She roused herself to hold a rapid consultation over plans.

They must of course do as they were advised, and spend the night at Glacier.

       *       *       *       *       *

The train drew up.

"Well, of all the nuisances!"--cried Philip, disgusted, as they prepared to leave the car.

Yerkes, like the showman that he was, began to descant volubly on the advantages and charms
of the hotel, its Swiss guides, and the distinguished travellers who stayed there; dragging
rugs and bags meanwhile out of the car. Nobody listened to him. Everybody in the little party,
as they stood forlornly on the platform, was in truth searching for Anderson.

And at last he came--hurrying along towards them. His face, set, strained, and colourless,
bore the stamp of calamity. But he gave them no time to question him.

"I am going on," he said hastily to Elizabeth; "they will look after you here. I will arrange
everything for you as soon as possible, and if we don't meet before, perhaps--in Vancouver--"

"I say, are you going to hunt the robbers?" asked Philip, catching his arm.

Anderson made no reply. He turned to Delaine, drew him aside a moment, and put a letter into
his hand.

"My father was one of them," he said, without emotion, "and is dead. I have asked you to tell
Lady Merton."

There was a call for him. The train was already moving. He jumped into it, and was gone.

CHAPTER XII

The station and hotel at Sicamous Junction, overlooking the lovely Mara lake, were full of
people--busy officials of different kinds, or excited on-lookers--when Anderson reached them.
The long summer day was just passing into a night that was rather twilight than darkness, and
in the lower country the heat was great. Far away to the north stretched the wide and straggling
waters of another and larger lake. Woods of poplar and cottonwood grew along its swampy shore,
and hills, forest clad, held it in a shallow cup flooded with the mingled light of sunset and
moonlight.

Anderson was met by a district superintendent, of the name of Dixon, as he descended from the
train. The young man, with whom he was slightly acquainted, looked at him with excitement.

"This is a precious bad business! If you can throw any light upon it, Mr. Anderson, we shall
be uncommonly obliged to you--"

Anderson interrupted him.

"Is the inquest to be held here?"

"Certainly. The bodies were brought in a few hours ago."

His companion pointed to a shed beyond the station. They walked thither, the Superintendent
describing in detail the attack on the train and the measures taken for the capture of the
marauders, Anderson listening in silence. The affair had taken place early that morning, but
the telegraph wires had been cut in several places on both sides of the damaged line, so that
no precise news of what had happened had reached either Vancouver on the west, or Golden on
the east, till the afternoon. The whole countryside was now in movement, and a vigorous man-hunt
was proceeding on both sides of the line.

"There is no doubt the whole thing was planned by a couple of men from Montana, one of whom
was certainly concerned in the hold-up there a few months ago and got clean away. But there
were six or seven of them altogether and most of the rest--we suspect--from this side of the
boundary. The old man who was killed"--Anderson raised his eyes abruptly to the speaker--"seems
to have come from Nevada. There were some cuttings from a Nevada newspaper found upon him,
besides the envelope addressed to you, of which I sent you word at Roger's Pass. Could you
recognise anything in my description of the man? There was one thing I forgot to say. He had
evidently been in the doctor's hands lately. There is a surgical bandage on the right ankle."

"Was there nothing in the envelope?" asked Anderson, putting the question aside, in spite of
the evident eagerness of the questioner.

"Nothing."

"And where is it?"

"It was given to the Kamloops coroner, who has just arrived." Anderson said nothing more. They
had reached the shed, which his companion unlocked. Inside were two rough tables on trestles
and lying on them two sheeted forms.

Dixon uncovered the first, and Anderson looked steadily down at the face underneath. Death
had wrought its strange ironic miracle once more, and out of the face of an outcast had made
the face of a sage. There was little disfigurement; the eyes were closed with dignity; the
mouth seemed to have unlearnt its coarseness. Silently the tension of Anderson's inner being
gave way; he was conscious of a passionate acceptance of the mere stillness and dumbness of death.

"Where was the wound?" he asked, stooping over the body.

"Ah, that was the strange thing! He didn't die of his wound at all! It was a mere graze on
the arm." The Superintendent pointed to a rent on the coat-sleeve. "He died of something quite
different--perhaps excitement and a weak heart. There may have to be a post-mortem."

"I doubt whether that will be necessary," said Anderson.

The other looked at him with undisguised curiosity.

"Then you do recognise him?"

"I will tell the coroner what I know."

Anderson drew back from his close examination of the dead face, and began in his turn to question
the Superintendent. Was it certain that this man had been himself concerned in the hold-up
and in the struggle with the police?

Dixon could not see how there could be any doubt of it. The constables who had rushed in upon
the gang while they were still looting the express car--the brakesman having managed to get
away and convey the alarm to Kamloops--remembered seeing an old man with white hair, apparently
lame, at the rear of the more active thieves, and posted as sentinel. He had been the first
to give warning of the police approach, and had levelled his revolver at the foremost constable
but had missed his shot. In the free firing which had followed nobody exactly knew what had
happened. One of the attacking force, Constable Brown, had fallen, and while his comrades were
attempting to save him, the thieves had dropped down the steep bank of the river close by,
into a boat waiting for them, and got off. The constable was left dead upon the ground, and
not far from him lay the old man, also lifeless. But when they came to examine the bodies,
while the constable was shot through the head, the other had received nothing but the trifling
wound Dixon had already pointed out.

Anderson listened to the story in silence. Then with a last long look at the rigid features
below him, he replaced the covering. Passing on to the other table, he raised the sheet from
the face of a splendid young Englishman, whom he had last seen the week before at Regina; an
English public-school boy of the manliest type, full of hope for himself, and of enthusiasm,
both for Canada and for the fine body of men in which he had been just promoted. For the first
time a stifled groan escaped from Anderson's lips. What hand had done this murder?

They left the shed. Anderson inquired what doctor had been sent for. He recognised the name
given as that of a Kamloops man whom he knew and respected; and he went on to look for him
at the hotel.

For some time he and the doctor paced a trail beside the line together. Among other facts that
Anderson got from this conversation, he learnt that the American authorities had been telegraphed
to, and that a couple of deputy sheriffs were coming to assist the Canadian police. They were
expected the following morning, when also the coroner's inquest would be held.

As to Anderson's own share in the interview, when the two men parted, with a silent grasp of
the hand, the Doctor had nothing to say to the bystanders, except that Mr. Anderson would have
some evidence to give on the morrow, and that, for himself, he was not at liberty to divulge
what had passed between them.

It was by this time late. Anderson shut himself up in his room at the hotel; but among the
groups lounging at the bar or in the neighbourhood of the station excitement and discussion
ran high. The envelope addressed to Anderson, Anderson's own demeanour since his arrival on
the scene--with the meaning of both conjecture was busy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towards midnight a train arrived from Field. A messenger from the station knocked at Anderson's
door with a train letter. Anderson locked the door again behind the man who had brought it,
and stood looking at it a moment in silence. It was from Lady Merton. He opened it slowly,
took it to the small deal table, which held a paraffin lamp, and sat down to read it.

     "Dear Mr. Anderson--Mr. Delaine has given me your message and
     read me some of your letter to him. He has also told me what
     he knew before this happened--we understood that you wished
     it. Oh! I cannot say how very sorry we are, Philip and I, for
     your great trouble. It makes me sore at heart to think that
     all the time you have been looking after us so kindly, taking
     this infinite pains for us, you have had this heavy anxiety
     on your mind. Oh, why didn't you tell me! I thought we were
     to be friends. And now this tragedy! It is
     terrible--terrible! Your father has been his own worst
     enemy--and at last death has come,--and he has escaped
     himself. Is there not some comfort in that? And you tried to
     save him. I can imagine all that you have been doing and
     planning for him. It is not lost, dear Mr. Anderson. No love
     and pity are ever lost. They are undying--for they are God's
     life in us. They are the pledge--the sign--to which He is
     eternally bound. He will surely, surely, redeem--and fulfil.

     "I write incoherently, for they are waiting for my letter. I
     want you to write to me, if you will. And when will you come
     back to us? We shall, I think, be two or three days here, for
     Philip has made friends with a man we have met here--a
     surveyor, who has been camping high up, and shooting wild
     goat. He is determined to go for an expedition with him, and
     I had to telegraph to the Lieutenant-Governor to ask him not
     to expect us till Thursday. So if you were to come back here
     before then you would still find us. I don't know that I
     could be of any use to you, or any consolation to you. But,
     indeed, I would try.

     "To-morrow I am told will be the inquest. My thoughts will be
     with you constantly. By now you will have determined on your
     line of action. I only know that it will be noble and
     upright--like yourself.

     "I remain, yours most sincerely"

     "ELIZABETH MERTON."

Anderson pressed the letter to his lips. Its tender philosophising found no echo in his own
mind. But it soothed, because it came from her.

He lay dressed and wakeful on his bed through the night, and at nine next morning the inquest
opened, in the coffee-room of the hotel.

The body of the young constable was first identified. As to the hand which had fired the shot
that killed him, there was no certain evidence; one of the police had seen the lame man with
the white hair level his revolver again after the first miss; but there was much shooting going
on, and no one could be sure from what quarter the fatal bullet had come.

The court then proceeded to the identification of the dead robber. The coroner, a rancher who
bred the best horses in the district, called first upon two strangers in plain clothes, who
had arrived by the first train from the South that morning. They proved to be the two officers
from Nevada. They had already examined the body, and they gave clear and unhesitating evidence,
identifying the old man as one Alexander McEwen, well known to the police of the silver-mining
State as a lawless and dangerous character. He had been twice in jail, and had been the associate
of the notorious Bill Symonds in one or two criminal affairs connected with "faked" claims
and the like. The elder of the two officers in particular drew a vivid and damning picture
of the man's life and personality, of the cunning with which he had evaded the law, and the
ruthlessness with which he had avenged one or two private grudges.

"We have reason to suppose," said the American officer finally, "that McEwen was not originally
a native of the States. We believe that he came from Dawson City or the neighbourhood about
ten years ago, and that he crossed the border in consequence of a mysterious affair--which
has never been cleared up--in which a rich German gentleman, Baron von Aeschenbach, disappeared,
and has not been heard of since. Of that, however, we have no proof, and we cannot supply the
court with any information as to the man's real origin and early history. But we are prepared
to swear that the body we have seen this morning is that of Alexander McEwen, who for some
years past has been well known to us, now in one camp, now in another, of the Comstock district."

The American police officer resumed his seat. George Anderson, who was to the right of the
coroner, had sat, all through this witness's evidence, bending forward, his eyes on the ground,
his hands clasped between his knees. There was something in the rigidity of his attitude, which
gradually compelled the attention of the onlookers, as though the perception gained ground
that here--in that stillness--those bowed shoulders--lay the real interest of this sordid outrage,
which had so affronted the pride of Canada's great railway.

The coroner rose. He briefly expressed the thanks of the court to the Nevada State authorities
for having so promptly supplied the information in their possession in regard to this man McEwen.
He would now ask Mr. George Anderson, of the C.P.R., whether he could in any way assist the
court in this investigation. An empty envelope, fully addressed to Mr. George Anderson, Ginnell's
Boarding House, Laggan, Alberta, had, strangely enough, been found in McEwen's pocket. Could
Mr. Anderson throw any light upon the matter?

Anderson stood up as the coroner handed him the envelope. He took it, looked at it, and slowly
put it down on the table before him. He was perfectly composed, but there was that in his aspect
which instantly hushed all sounds in the crowded room, and drew the eyes of everybody in it
upon him. The Kamloops doctor looked at him from a distance with a sudden twitching smile--the
smile of a reticent man in whom strong feeling must somehow find a physical expression. Dixon,
the young Superintendent, bent forward eagerly. At the back of the room a group of Japanese
railway workers, with their round, yellow faces and half-opened eyes stared impassively at
the tall figure of the fair-haired Canadian; and through windows and doors, thrown open to
the heat, shimmered lake and forest, the eternal background of Canada.

"Mr. Coroner," said Anderson, straightening himself to his full height, "the name of the man
into whose death you are inquiring is not Alexander McEwen. He came from Scotland to Manitoba
in 1869. His real name was Robert Anderson, and I--am his son."

The coroner gave an involuntary "Ah!" of amazement, which was echoed, it seemed, throughout
the room.

On one of the small deal tables belonging to the coffee-room, which had been pushed aside to
make room for the sitting of the court, lay the newspapers of the morning--the Vancouver Sentinel
and the Montreal Star. Both contained short and flattering articles on the important Commission
entrusted to Mr. George Anderson by the Prime Minister. "A great compliment to so young a man,"
said the Star, "but one amply deserved by Mr. Anderson's record. We look forward on his behalf
to a brilliant career, honourable both to himself and to Canada."

Several persons had already knocked at Anderson's door early that morning in order to congratulate
him; but without finding him. And this honoured and fortunate person--?

Men pushed each other forward in their eagerness not to lose a word, or a shade of expression
on the pale face which confronted them.

Anderson, after a short pause, as though to collect himself, gave the outlines of his father's
early history, of the farm in Manitoba, the fire and its consequences, the breach between Robert
Anderson and his sons. He described the struggle of the three boys on the farm, their migration
to Montreal in search of education, and his own later sojourn in the Yukon, with the evidence
which had convinced him of his father's death.

"Then, only a fortnight ago, he appeared at Laggan and made himself known to me, having followed
me apparently from Winnipeg. He seemed to be in great poverty, and in bad health. If he had
wished it, I was prepared to acknowledge him; but he seemed not to wish it; there were no doubt
reasons why he preferred to keep his assumed name. I did what I could for him, and arrangements
had been made to put him with decent people at Vancouver. But last Wednesday night he disappeared
from the boarding house where he and I were both lodging, and various persons here will know"--he
glanced at one or two faces in the ring before him--"that I have been making inquiries since,
with no result. As to what or who led him into this horrible business, I know nothing. The
Nevada deputies have told you that he was acquainted with Symonds--a fact unknown to me--and
I noticed on one or two occasions that he seemed to have acquaintances among the men tramping
west to the Kootenay district. I can only imagine that after his success in Montana last year,
Symonds made up his mind to try the same game on the C.P.R., and that during the last fortnight
he came somehow into communication with my father. My father must have been aware of Symonds's
plans--and may have been unable at the last to resist the temptation to join in the scheme.
As to all that I am entirely in the dark."

He paused, and then, looking down, he added, under his breath, as though involuntarily--"I
pray--that he may not have been concerned in the murder of poor Brown. But there is--I think--no
evidence to connect him with it. I shall be glad to answer to the best of my power any questions
that the court may wish to put."

He sat down heavily, very pale, but entirely collected. The room watched him a moment, and
then a friendly, encouraging murmur seemed to rise from the crowd--to pass from them to Anderson.

The coroner, who was an old friend of Anderson's, fidgeted a little and in silence. He took
off his glasses and put them on again. His tanned face, long and slightly twisted, with square
harsh brows, and powerful jaw set in a white fringe of whisker, showed an unusual amount of
disturbance. At last he said, clearing his throat: "We are much obliged to you, Mr. Anderson,
for your frankness towards this court. There's not a man here that don't feel for you, and
don't wish to offer you his respectful sympathy. We know you--and I reckon we know what to
think about you. Gentlemen," he spoke with nasal deliberation, looking round the court, "I
think that's so?"

A shout of consent--the shout of men deeply moved--went up. Anderson, who had resumed his former
attitude, appeared to take no notice, and the coroner resumed.

"I will now call on Mrs. Ginnell to give her evidence."

The Irishwoman rose with alacrity--what she had to say held the audience. The surly yet good-hearted
creature was divided between her wish to do justice to the demerits of McEwen, whom she had
detested, and her fear of hurting Anderson's feelings in public. Beneath her rough exterior,
she carried some of the delicacies of Celtic feeling, and she had no sooner given some fact
that showed the coarse dishonesty of the father, than she veered off in haste to describe the
pathetic efforts of the son. Her homely talk told; the picture grew.

Meanwhile Anderson sat impatient or benumbed, annoyed with Mrs. Ginnell's garrulity, and longing
for the whole thing to end. He had a letter to write to Ottawa before post-time.

When the verdicts had been given, the doctor and he walked away from the court together. The
necessary formalities were carried through, a coffin ordered, and provision made for the burial
of Robert Anderson. As the two men passed once or twice through the groups now lounging and
smoking as before outside the hotel, all conversation ceased, and all eyes followed Anderson.
Sincere pity was felt for him; and at the same time men asked each other anxiously how the
revelation would affect his political and other chances.

Late in the same evening the burial of McEwen took place. A congregational minister at the
graveside said a prayer for mercy on the sinner. Anderson had not asked him to do it, and felt
a dull resentment of the man's officiousness, and the unctious length of his prayer. Half an
hour later he was on the platform, waiting for the train to Glacier.

He arrived there in the first glorious dawn of a summer morning. Over the vast Illecillowaet
glacier rosy feather-clouds were floating in a crystal air, beneath a dome of pale blue. Light
mists rose from the forests and the course of the river, and above them shone the dazzling
snows, the hanging glaciers, and glistening rock faces, ledge piled on ledge, of the Selkirk
giants--Hermit and Tupper, Avalanche and Sir Donald--with that cleft of the pass between.

The pleasant hotel, built to offer as much shelter and comfort as possible to the tired traveller
and climber, was scarcely awake. A sleepy-eyed Japanese showed Anderson to his room. He threw
himself on the bed, longing for sleep, yet incapable of it. He was once more under the same
roof with Elizabeth Merton--and for the last time! He longed for her presence, her look, her
touch; and yet with equal intensity he shrank from seeing her. That very morning through the
length of Canada and the States would go out the news of the train-robbery on the main line
of the C.P.R., and with it the "dramatic" story of himself and his father, made more dramatic
by a score of reporters. And as the news of his appointment, in the papers of the day before,
had made him a public person, and had been no doubt telegraphed to London and Europe, so also
would it be with the news of the "hold-up," and his own connection with it; partly because
it had happened on the C.P.R.; still more because of the prominence given to his name the day
before.

He felt himself a disgraced man; and he had already put from him all thought of a public career.
Yet he wondered, not without self-contempt, as he lay there in the broadening light, what it
was in truth that made the enormous difference between this Monday and the Monday before. His
father was dead, and had died in the very commission of a criminal act. But all or nearly all
that Anderson knew now about his character he had known before this happened. The details given
by the Nevada officers were indeed new to him; but he had shrewdly suspected all along that
the record, did he know it, would be something like that. If such a parentage in itself involves
stain and degradation, the stain and degradation had been always there, and the situation,
looked at philosophically, was no worse for the catastrophe which had intervened between this
week and last.

And yet it was of course immeasurably worse! Such is the "bubble reputation"--the difference
between the known and the unknown.

At nine o'clock a note was brought to his room:

     "Will you breakfast with me in half an hour? You will find me
     alone.

     "E.M."

Before the clock struck the half-hour, Elizabeth was already waiting for her guest, listening
for every sound. She too had been awake half the night.

When he came in she went up to him, with her quick-tripping step, holding out both her hands;
and he saw that her eyes were full of tears.

"I am so--so sorry!" was all she could say. He looked into her eyes, and as her hands lay in
his he stooped suddenly and kissed them. There was a great piteousness in his expression, and
she felt through every nerve the humiliation and the moral weariness which oppressed him. Suddenly
she recalled that first moment of intimacy between them when he had so brusquely warned her
about Philip, and she had been wounded by his mere strength and fearlessness; and it hurt her
to realise the contrast between that strength and this weakness.

She made him sit down beside her in the broad window of her little sitting-room, which over-looked
the winding valley with the famous loops of the descending railway, and the moving light and
shade on the forest; and very gently and tenderly she made him tell her all the story from
first to last.

His shrinking passed away, soothed by her sweetness, her restrained emotion, and after a little
he talked with freedom, gradually recovering his normal steadiness and clearness of mind.

At the same time she perceived some great change in him. The hidden spring of melancholy in
his nature, which, amid all his practical energies and activities, she had always discerned,
seemed to have overleaped its barriers, and to be invading the landmarks of character.

At the end of his narrative he said something in a hurried, low voice which gave her a clue.

"I did what I could to help him--but my father hated me. He died hating me. Nothing I could
do altered him. Had he reason? When my brother and I in our anger thought we were avenging
our mother's death, were we in truth destroying him also--driving him into wickedness beyond
hope? Were we--was I--for I was the eldest--responsible? Does his death, moral and physical,
lie at my door?"

He raised his eyes to her--his tired appealing eyes--and Elizabeth realised sharply how deep
a hold such questionings take on such a man. She tried to argue with and comfort him--and he
seemed to absorb, to listen--but in the middle of it, he said abruptly, as though to change
the subject:

"And I confess the publicity has hit me hard. It may be cowardly, but I can't face it for a
while. I think I told you I owned some land in Saskatchewan. I shall go and settle down on
it at once."

"And give up your appointment--your public life?" she cried in dismay.

He smiled at her faintly, as though trying to console her.

"Yes; I shan't be missed, and I shall do better by myself. I understand the wheat and the land.
They are friends that don't fail one."

Elizabeth flushed.

"Mr. Anderson!--you mustn't give up your work. Canada asks it of you."

"I shall only be changing my work. A man can do nothing better for Canada than break up land."

"You can do that--and other things besides. Please--please--do nothing rash!"

She bent over to him, her brown eyes full of entreaty, her hand laid gently, timidly on his.

He could not bear to distress her--but he must.

"I sent in my resignation yesterday to the Prime Minister."

The delicate face beside him clouded.

"He won't accept it."

Anderson shook his head. "I think he must."

Elizabeth looked at him in despair.

"Oh! no. You oughtn't to do this--indeed, indeed you oughtn't. It is cowardly--forgive me!--unworthy
of you. Oh! can't you see how the sympathy of everybody who knows--everybody whose opinion
you care for--"

She stopped a moment, colouring deeply, checked indeed by the thought of a conversation between
herself and Philip of the night before. Anderson interrupted her:

"The sympathy of one person," he said hoarsely, "is very precious to me. But even for her--"

She held out her hands to him again imploringly--

"Even for her?--"

But instead of taking the hands he rose and went out on the balcony a moment, as though to
look at the great view. Then he returned, and stood over her.

"Lady Merton, I am afraid--it's no use. We are not--we can't be--friends."

"Not friends?" she said, her lip quivering. "I thought I--"

He looked down steadily on her upturned face. His own spoke eloquently enough. Turning her
head away, with fluttering breath, she began to speak fast and brokenly:

"I, too, have been very lonely. I want a friend whom I might help--who would help me. Why should
you refuse? We are not either of us quite young; what we undertook we could carry through.
Since my husband's death I--I have been playing at life. I have always been hungry, dissatisfied,
discontented. There were such splendid things going on in the world, and I--I was just marking
time. Nothing to do!--as much money as I could possibly want--society of course--travelling--and
visiting--and amusing myself--but oh! so tired all the time. And somehow Canada has been a
great revelation of real, strong, living things--this great Northwest--and you, who seemed
to explain it to me--"

"Dear Lady Merton!" His tone was low and full of emotion. And this time it was he who stooped
and took her unresisting hands in his. She went on in the same soft, pleading tone--

"I felt what it might be--to help in the building up a better human life--in this vast new
country. God has given to you this task--such a noble task!--and through your friendship, I
too seemed to have a little part in it, if only by sympathy. Oh, no! you mustn't turn back--you
mustn't shrink--because of what has happened to you. And let me, from a distance, watch and
help. It will ennoble my life, too. Let me!"--she smiled--"I shall make a good friend, you'll
see. I shall write very often. I shall argue--and criticise--and want a great deal of explaining.
And you'll come over to us, and do splendid work, and make many English friends. Your strength
will all come back to you."

He pressed the hands he held more closely.

"It is like you to say all this--but--don't let us deceive ourselves. I could not be your friend,
Lady Merton. I must not come and see you."

She was silent, very pale, her eyes on his--and he went on:

"It is strange to say it in this way, at such a moment; but it seems as though I had better
say it. I have had the audacity, you see--to fall in love with you. And if it was audacity
a week ago, you can guess what it is now--now when--Ask your mother and brother what they would
think of it!" he said abruptly, almost fiercely.

There was a moment's silence. All consciousness, all feeling in each of these two human beings
had come to be--with the irrevocable swiftness of love--a consciousness of the other. Under
the sombre renouncing passion of his look, her own eyes filled slowly--beautifully--with tears.
And through all his perplexity and pain there shot a thrill of joy, of triumph even, sharp
and wonderful. He understood. All this might have been his--this delicate beauty, this quick
will, this rare intelligence--and yet the surrender in her aspect was not the simple surrender
of love; he knew before she spoke that she did not pretend to ignore the obstacles between
them; that she was not going to throw herself upon his renunciation, trying vehemently to break
it down, in a mere blind girlish impulsiveness. He realised at once her heart, and her common
sense; and was grateful to her for both.

Gently she drew herself away, drawing a long breath. "My mother and brother would not decide
those things for me--oh, never!--I should decide them for myself. But we are not going to talk
of them to-day. We are not going to make any--any rash promises to each other. It is you we
must think for--your future--your life. And then--if you won't give me a friend's right to
speak--you will be unkind--and I shall respect you less."

She threw back her little head with vivacity. In the gesture he saw the strength of her will
and his own wavered.

"How can it be unkind?" he protested. "You ought not to be troubled with me any more."

"Let me be judge of that. If you will persist in giving up this appointment, promise me at
least to come to England. That will break this spell of this--this terrible thing, and give
you courage--again. Promise me!"

"No, no!--you are too good to me--too good;--let it end here. It is much, much better so."

Then she broke down a little.

She looked round her, like some hurt creature seeking a means of escape. Her lips trembled.
She gave a low cry. "And I have loved Canada so! I have been so happy here."

"And now I have hurt you?--I have spoilt everything?"

"It is your unhappiness does that--and that you will spoil your life. Promise me only this
one thing--to come to England! Promise me!"

He sat down in a quiet despair that she would urge him so. A long argument followed between
them, and at last she wore him down. She dared say nothing more of the Commissionership; but
he promised her to come to England some time in the following winter; and with that she had
to be content.

Then she gave him breakfast. During their conversation, which Elizabeth guided as far as possible
to indifferent topics, the name of Mariette was mentioned. He was still, it seemed, at Vancouver.
Elizabeth gave Anderson a sudden look, and casually, without his noticing, she possessed herself
of the name of Mariette's hotel.

At breakfast also she described, with a smile and sigh, her brother's first and last attempt
to shoot wild goat in the Rockies, an expedition which had ended in a wetting and a chill--"luckily
nothing much; but poor Philip won't be out of his room to-day."

"I will go and see him," said Anderson, rising.

Elizabeth looked up, her colour fluttering.

"Mr. Anderson, Philip is only a boy, and sometimes a foolish boy--"

"I understand," said Anderson quietly, after a moment. "Philip thinks his sister has been running
risks. Who warned him?"

Elizabeth shrugged her shoulders without replying. He saw a touch of scorn in her face that
was new to him.

"I think I guess," he said. "Why not? It was the natural thing. So Mr. Delaine is still here?"

"Till to-morrow."

"I am glad. I shall like to assure him that his name was not mentioned--he was not involved
at all!"

Elizabeth's lip curled a little, but she said nothing. During the preceding forty-eight hours
there had been passages between herself and Delaine that she did not intend Anderson to know
anything about. In his finical repugnance to soiling his hands with matters so distasteful,
Delaine had carried out the embassy which Anderson had perforce entrusted to him in such a
manner as to rouse in Elizabeth a maximum of pride on her own account, and of indignation on
Anderson's. She was not even sorry for him any more; being, of course, therein a little unjust
to him, as was natural to a high-spirited and warm-hearted woman.

Anderson, meanwhile, went off to knock at Philip's door, and Philip's sister was left behind
to wonder nervously how Philip would behave and what he would say. She was still smarting under
the boy's furious outburst of the night before when, through a calculated indiscretion of Delaine's,
the notion that Anderson had presumed and might still presume to set his ambitions on Elizabeth
had been presented to him for the first time.

"My sister marry a mining engineer!--with a drunken old robber for a father! By Jove! Anybody
talking nonsense of that kind will jolly well have to reckon with me! Elizabeth!--you may say
what you like, but I am the head of the family!"

Anderson found the head of the family in bed, surrounded by novels, and a dozen books on big-game
shooting in the Rockies. Philip received him with an evident and ungracious embarrassment.

"I am awfully sorry--beastly business. Hard lines on you, of course--very. Hope they'll get
the men."

"Thank you. They are doing their best."

Anderson sat down beside the lad. The fragility of his look struck him painfully, and the pathetic
contrast between it and the fretting spirit--the books of travel and adventure heaped round him.

"Have you been ill again?" he asked in his kind, deep voice.

"Oh, just a beastly chill. Elizabeth would make me take too many wraps. Everyone knows you
oughtn't to get overheated walking."

"Do you want to stay on here longer?"

"Not I! What do I care about glaciers and mountains and that sort of stuff if I can't hunt?
But Elizabeth's got at the doctor somehow, and he won't let me go for three or four days unless
I kick over the traces. I daresay I shall."

"No you won't--for your sister's sake. I'll see all arrangements are made."

Philip made no direct reply. He lay staring at the ceiling--till at last he said--

"Delaine's going. He's going to-morrow. He gets on Elizabeth's nerves."

"Did he say anything to you about me?" said Anderson.

Philip flushed.

"Well, I daresay he did."

"Make your mind easy, Gaddesden. A man with my story is not going to ask your sister to marry him."

Philip looked up. Anderson sat composedly erect, the traces of his nights of sleeplessness
and revolt marked on every feature, but as much master of himself and his life--so Gaddesden
intuitively felt--as he had ever been. A movement of remorse and affection stirred in the young
man mingled with the strength of other inherited things.

"Awfully sorry, you know," he said clumsily, but this time sincerely. "I don't suppose it makes
any difference to you that your father--well, I'd better not talk about it. But you see--Elizabeth
might marry anybody. She might have married heaps of times since Merton died, if she hadn't
been such an icicle. She's got lots of money, and--well, I don't want to be snobbish--but at
home--we--our family--"

"I understand," said Anderson, perhaps a little impatiently--"you are great people. I understood
that all along."

Family pride cried out in Philip. "Then why the deuce--" But he said aloud in some confusion,
"I suppose that sounded disgusting"--then floundering deeper--"but you see--well, I'm very
fond of Elizabeth!"

Anderson rose and walked to the window which commanded a view of the railway line.

"I see the car outside. I'll go and have a few words with Yerkes."

The boy let him go in silence--conscious on the one hand that he had himself played a mean
part in their conversation, and on the other that Anderson, under this onset of sordid misfortune,
was somehow more of a hero in his eyes, and no doubt in other people's, than ever.

On his way downstairs Anderson ran into Delaine, who was ascending with an armful of books
and pamphlets.

"Oh, how do you do? Had only just heard you were here. May I have a word with you?"

Anderson remounted the stairs in silence, and the two men paused, seeing no one in sight, in
the corridor beyond.

"I have just read the report of the inquest, and should like to offer you my sincere sympathy
and congratulations on your very straightforward behaviour--" Anderson made a movement. Delaine
went on hurriedly--

"I should like also to thank you for having kept my name out of it."

"There was no need to bring it in," said Anderson coldly.

"No of course not--of course not! I have also seen the news of your appointment. I trust nothing
will interfere with that."

Anderson turned towards the stairs again. He was conscious of a keen antipathy--the antipathy
of tired nerves--to the speaker's mere aspect, his long hair, his too picturesque dress, the
antique on his little finger, the effeminate stammer in his voice.

"Are you going to-day? What train?" he said, in a careless voice as he moved away.

Delaine drew back, made a curt reply, and the two men parted.

"Oh, he'll get over it; there will very likely be nothing to get over," Delaine reflected tartly,
as he made his way to his room. "A new country like this can't be too particular." He was thankful,
at any rate, that he would have an opportunity before long--for he was going straight home
and to Cumberland--of putting Mrs. Gaddesden on her guard. "I may be thought officious; Lady
Merton let me see very plainly that she thinks me so--but I shall do my duty nevertheless."

And as he stood over his packing, bewildering his valet with a number of precise and old-maidish
directions, his sore mind ran alternately on the fiasco of his own journey and on the incredible
folly of nice women.

Delaine departed; and for two days Elizabeth ministered to Anderson. She herself went strangely
through it, feeling between them, as it were, the bared sword of his ascetic will--no less
than her own terrors and hesitations. But she set herself to lift him from the depths; and
as they walked about the mountains and the forests, in a glory of summer sunshine, the sanity
and sweetness of her nature made for him a spiritual atmosphere akin in its healing power to
the influence of pine and glacier upon his physical weariness.

On the second evening, Mariette walked into the hotel. Anderson, who had just concluded all
arrangements for the departure of the car with its party within forty-eight hours, received
him with astonishment.

"What brings you here?"

Mariette's harsh face smiled at him gravely.

"The conviction that if I didn't come, you would be committing a folly."

"What do you mean?"

"Giving up your Commissionership, or some nonsense of that sort."

"I have given it up."

"H'm! Anything from Ottawa yet?"

It was impossible, Anderson pointed out, that there should be any letter for another three
days. But he had written finally and did not mean to be over-persuaded.

Mariette at once carried him off for a walk and attacked him vigorously. "Your private affairs
have nothing whatever to do with your public work. Canada wants you--you must go."

"Canada can easily get hold of a Commissioner who would do her more credit," was the bitter
reply. "A man's personal circumstances are part of his equipment. They must not be such as
to injure his mission."

Mariette argued in vain.

As they were both dining in the evening with Elizabeth and Philip, a telegram was brought in
for Anderson from the Prime Minister. It contained a peremptory and flattering refusal to accept
his resignation. "Nothing has occurred which affects your public or private character. My confidence
quite unchanged. Work is best for yourself, and the public expects it of you. Take time to
consider, and wire me in two days."

Anderson thrust it into his pocket, and was only with difficulty persuaded to show it to Mariette.

But in the course of the evening many letters arrived--letters of sympathy from old friends
in Quebec and Manitoba, from colleagues and officials, from navvies and railwaymen, even, on
the C.P.R., from his future constituents in Saskatchewan--drawn out by the newspaper reports
of the inquest and of Anderson's evidence. For once the world rallied to a good man in distress!
and Anderson was strangely touched and overwhelmed by it.

He passed an almost sleepless night, and in the morning as he met Elizabeth on her balcony
he said to her, half reproachfully, pointing to Mariette below--

"It was you sent for him."

Elizabeth smiled.

"A woman knows her limitations! It is harder to refuse two than one."

For twenty-four hours the issue remained uncertain. Letters continued to pour in; Mariette
applied the plain-spoken, half-scornful arguments natural to a man holding a purely spiritual
standard of life; and Elizabeth pleaded more by look and manner than by words.

Anderson held out as long as he could. He was assaulted by that dark midway hour of manhood,
that distrust of life and his own powers, which disables so many of the world's best men in
these heightened, hurrying days. But in the end his two friends saved him--as by fire.

Mariette himself dictated the telegram to the Prime Minister in which Anderson withdrew his
resignation; and then, while Anderson, with a fallen countenance, carried it to the post, the
French Canadian and Elizabeth looked at each other--in a common exhaustion and relief.

"I feel a wreck," said Elizabeth. "Monsieur, you are an excellent ally." And she held out her
hand to her colleague. Mariette took it, and bowed over it with the air of a grand seigneur
of 1680.

"The next step must be yours, madam--if you really take an interest in our friend."

Elizabeth rather nervously inquired what it might be.

"Find him a wife!--a good wife. He was not made to live alone."

His penetrating eyes in his ugly well-bred face searched the features of his companion. Elizabeth
bore it smiling, without flinching.

A fortnight passed--and Elizabeth and Philip were on their way home through the heat of July.
Once more the railway which had become their kind familiar friend sped them through the prairies,
already whitening to the harvest, through the Ontarian forests and the Ottawa valley. The wheat
was standing thick on the illimitable earth; the plains in their green or golden dress seemed
to laugh and sing under the hot dome of sky. Again the great Canadian spectacle unrolled itself
from west to east, and the heart Elizabeth brought to it was no longer the heart of a stranger.
The teeming Canadian life had become interwoven with her life; and when Anderson came to bid
her a hurried farewell on the platform at Regina, she carried the passionate memory of his
face with her, as the embodiment and symbol of all that she had seen and felt.

Then her thoughts turned to England, and the struggle before her. She braced herself against
the Old World as against an enemy. But her spirit failed her when she remembered that in Anderson
himself she was like to find her chiefest foe.

CHAPTER XIII

"What about the shooters, Wilson? I suppose they'll be in directly?"

"They're just finishing the last beat, ma'am. Shall I bring in tea?"

Mrs. Gaddesden assented, and then leaving her seat by the fire she moved to the window to see
if she could discover any signs in the wintry landscape outside of Philip and his shooting
party. As she did so she heard a rattle of distant shots coming from a point to her right beyond
the girdling trees of the garden. But she saw none of the shooters--only two persons, walking
up and down the stone terrace outside, in the glow of the November sunset. One was Elizabeth,
the other a tall, ungainly, yet remarkable figure, was a Canadian friend of Elizabeth's, who
had only arrived that forenoon--M. Félix Mariette, of Quebec. According to Elizabeth, he had
come over to attend a Catholic Congress in London. Mrs. Gaddesden understood that he was an
Ultramontane, and that she was not to mention to him the word "Empire." She knew also that
Elizabeth had made arrangements with a neighbouring landowner, who was also a Catholic, that
he should be motored fifteen miles to Mass on the following morning, which was Sunday; and
her own easy-going Anglican temper, which carried her to the parish church about twelve times
a year, had been thereby a good deal impressed.

How well those furs became Elizabeth! It was a chill frosty evening, and Elizabeth's slight
form was wrapped in the sables which had been one of poor Merton's earliest gifts to her. The
mother's eye dwelt with an habitual pride on the daughter's grace of movement and carriage.
"She is always so distinguished," she thought, and then checked herself by the remembrance
that she was applying to Elizabeth an adjective that Elizabeth particularly disliked. Nevertheless,
Mrs. Gaddesden knew very well what she herself meant by it. She meant something--some quality
in Elizabeth, which was always provoking in her mother's mind despairing comparisons between
what she might make of her life and what she was actually making, or threatening to make of it.

Alas, for that Canadian journey--that disastrous Canadian journey! Mrs. Gaddesden's thoughts,
as she watched the two strollers outside, were carried back to the moment in early August when
Arthur Delaine had reappeared in her drawing-room, three weeks before Elizabeth's return, and
she had gathered from his cautious and stammering revelations what kind of man it was who seemed
to have established this strange hold on her daughter. Delaine, she thought, had spoken most
generously of Elizabeth and his own disappointment, and most kindly of this Mr. Anderson.

"I know nothing against him personally--nothing! No doubt a very estimable young fellow, with
just the kind of ability that will help him in Canada. Lady Merton, I imagine, will have told
you of the sad events in which we found him involved?"

Mrs. Gaddesden had replied that certainly Elizabeth had told her the whole story, so far as
it concerned Mr. Anderson. She pointed to the letters beside her.

"But you cannot suppose," had been her further indignant remark, "that Elizabeth would ever
dream of marrying him!"

"That, my dear old friend, is for her mother to find out," Delaine had replied, not without
a touch of venom. "I can certainly assure you that Lady Merton is deeply interested in this
young man, and he in her."

"Elizabeth--exiling herself in Canada--burying herself on the prairies--when she might have
everything here--the best of everything--at her feet. It is inconceivable!"

Delaine had agreed that it was inconceivable, and they had mourned together over the grotesque
possibilities of life. "But you will save her," he had said at last. "You will save her! You
will point out to her all she would be giving up--the absurdity, the really criminal waste of it!"

On which he had gloomily taken his departure for an archæological congress at Berlin, and an
autumn in Italy; and a few weeks later she had recovered her darling Elizabeth, paler and thinner
than before--and quite, quite incomprehensible!

As for "saving" her, Mrs. Gaddesden had not been allowed to attempt it. In the first place,
Elizabeth had stoutly denied that there was anything to save her from. "Don't believe anything
at all, dear Mummy, that Arthur Delaine may have said to you! I have made a great friend--of
a very interesting man; and I am going to correspond with him. He is coming to London in November,
and I have asked him to stay here. And you must be very kind to him, darling--just as kind
as you can be--for he has had a hard time--he saved Philip's life--and he is an uncommonly
fine fellow!"

And with that--great readiness to talk about everything except just what Mrs. Gaddesden most
wanted to know. Elizabeth sitting on her mother's bed at night, crooning about Canada--her
soft brown hair over her shoulders, and her eyes sparkling with patriotic enthusiasm, was a
charming figure. But let Mrs. Gaddesden attempt to probe and penetrate beyond a certain point,
and the way was resolutely barred. Elizabeth would kiss her mother tenderly--it was as though
her own reticence hurt her--but would say nothing. Mrs. Gaddesden could only feel sorely that
a great change had come over the being she loved best in the world, and that she was not to
know the whys and wherefores of it.

And Philip--alack! had been of very little use to her in the matter!

"Don't you bother your head, Mother! Anderson's an awfully good chap--but he's not going to
marry Elizabeth. Told me he knew he wasn't the kind. And of course he isn't--must draw the
line somewhere--hang it! But he's an awfully decent fellow. He's not going to push himself
in where he isn't wanted. You let Elizabeth alone, Mummy--it'll work off. And of course we
must be civil to him when he comes over--I should jolly well think we must--considering he
saved my life!"

Certainly they must be civil! News of Anderson's sailing and arrival had been anxiously looked
for. He had reached London three days before this date, had presented his credentials at the
Board of Trade and the Colonial Office, and after various preliminary interviews with ministers,
was now coming down to Martindale for a week-end before the assembling of the small conference
of English and colonial representatives to which he had been sent.

Mrs. Gaddesden saw from the various notices of his arrival in the English papers that even
in England, among the initiated he was understood to be a man of mark. She was all impatience
to see him, and had shown it outwardly much more plainly than Elizabeth. How quiet Elizabeth
had been these last days! moving about the house so silently, with vaguely smiling eyes, like
one husbanding her strength before an ordeal.

What was going to happen? Mrs. Gaddesden was conscious in her own mind of a strained hush of
expectation. But she had never ventured to say a word to Elizabeth. In half an hour--or less--he
would be here. A motor had been sent to meet the express train at the country town fifteen
miles off. Mrs. Gaddesden looked round her in the warm dusk, as though trying to forecast how
Martindale and its inmates would look to the new-comer. She saw a room of medium size, which
from the end of the sixteenth century had been known as the Red Drawing Room--a room panelled
in stamped Cordovan leather, and filled with rare and beautiful things; with ebony cabinets,
and fine lacquer; with the rarest of oriental carpets, with carved chairs, and luxurious sofas.
Set here and there, sparingly, among the shadows, as though in scorn of any vulgar profusion,
the eye caught the gleam of old silver, or rock crystal, or agate; bibelots collected a hundred
and fifty years ago by a Gaddesden of taste, and still in their original places. Overhead,
the uneven stucco ceiling showed a pattern of Tudor roses; opposite to Mrs. Gaddesden the wall
was divided between a round mirror, in whose depths she saw herself reflected and a fine Holbein
portrait of a man, in a flat velvet hat on a green background. Over the carved mantelpiece
with its date of 1586, there reigned a Romney portrait--one of the most famous in existence--of
a young girl in black. Elizabeth Merton bore a curious resemblance to it. Chrysanthemums, white,
yellow and purple, gleamed amid the richness of the room; while the light of the solitary lamp
beside which Mrs. Gaddesden had been sitting with her embroidery, blended with the orange glow
from outside now streaming in through the unshuttered windows, to deepen a colour effect of
extraordinary beauty, produced partly by time, partly by the conscious effort of a dozen generations.

And from the window, under the winter sunset, Mrs. Gaddesden could see, at right angles to
her on either side, the northern and southern wings of the great house; the sloping lawns;
the river winding through the park; the ivy-grown church among the trees; the distant woods
and plantations; the purple outlines of the fells. Just as in the room within, so the scene
without was fused into a perfect harmony and keeping by the mellowing light. There was in it
not a jarring note, a ragged line--age and dignity, wealth and undisputed place: Martindale
expressed them all. The Gaddesdens had twice refused a peerage; and with contempt. In their
belief, to be Mr. Gaddesden of Martindale was enough; a dukedom could not have bettered it.
And the whole country-side in which they had been rooted for centuries agreed with them. There
had even been a certain disapproval of the financial successes of Philip Gaddesden's father.
It was true that the Gaddesden rents had gone down. But the country, however commercialised
itself, looked with jealousy on any intrusion of "commercialism" into the guarded and venerable
precincts of Martindale.

The little lady who was now, till Philip's majority and marriage, mistress of Martindale, was
a small, soft, tremulous person, without the intelligence of her daughter, but by no means
without character. Secretly she had often felt oppressed by her surroundings. Whenever Philip
married, she would find it no hardship at all to retire to the dower house at the edge of the
park. Meanwhile she did her best to uphold the ancient ways. But if she sometimes found Martindale
oppressive--too old, too large, too rich, too perfect--how was it going to strike a young Canadian,
fresh from the prairies, who had never been in England before?

A sudden sound of many footsteps in the hall. The drawing-room door was thrown open by Philip,
and a troop of men entered. A fresh-coloured man with grizzled hair led the van.

"Well, Mrs. Gaddesden, here we all are. Philip has given us a capital day!"

A group of men followed him; the agent of the property, two small neighbouring squires, a broad-browed
burly man in knickerbockers, who was apparently a clergyman, to judge from his white tie, the
adjutant of the local regiment, and a couple of good-looking youths, Etonian friends of Philip.
Elizabeth and Mariette came in from the garden, and a young cousin of the Gaddesdens, a Miss
Lucas, slipped into the room under Elizabeth's wing. She was a pretty girl, dressed in an elaborate
demi-toilette of white chiffon, and the younger men of the party in their shooting dress--with
Philip at their head--were presently clustered thick about her, like bees after pollen. It
was clear, indeed, that Philip was paying her considerable attention, and as he laughed and
sparred with her, the transient colour that exercise had given him disappeared, and a pale
look of excitement took its place.

Mariette glanced from one to another with a scarcely disguised curiosity. This was only his
third visit to England and he felt himself in a foreign country. That was a pasteur he supposed,
in the gaiters--grotesque! And why was the young lady in evening dress, while Lady Merton,
now that she had thrown off her furs, appeared in the severest of tweed coats and skirts? The
rosy old fellow beside Mrs. Gaddesden was, he understood from Lady Merton, the Lord Lieutenant
of the county.

But at that moment his hostess laid hands upon him to present him to her neighbour. "Monsieur
Mariette--Lord Waynflete."

"Delighted to see you," said the great man affably, holding out his hand. "What a fine place
Canada is getting! I am thinking of sending my third son there."

Mariette bowed.

"There will be room for him."

"I am afraid he hasn't brains enough to do much here--but perhaps in a new country--"

"He will not require them? Yes, it is a common opinion," said Mariette, with composure. Lord
Waynflete stared a little, and returned to his hostess. Mariette betook himself to Elizabeth
for tea, and she introduced him to the girl in white, who looked at him with enthusiasm, and
at once threw over her bevy of young men, in favour of the spectacled and lean-faced stranger.

"You are a Catholic, Monsieur?" she asked him, fervently. "How I envy you! I adore the Oratory!
When we are in town I always go there to Benediction--unless Mamma wants me at home to pour
out tea. Do you know Cardinal C----?"

She named a Cardinal Archbishop, then presiding over the diocese of Westminster.

"Yes, mademoiselle, I know him quite well. I have just been staying with him."

She clasped her hands eagerly.

"How very interesting! I know him a little. Isn't he nice?"

"No," said Mariette resolutely. "He is magnificent--a saint--a scholar--everything--but not nice!"

The girl looked a little puzzled, then angry, and after a few minutes' more conversation she
returned to her young men, conspicuously turning her back on Mariette.

He threw a deprecating, half-penitent look at Elizabeth, whose faced twitched with amusement,
and sat down in a corner behind her that he might observe without talking. His quick intelligence
sorted the people about him almost at once--the two yeoman-squires, who were not quite at home
in Mrs. Gaddesden's drawing-room, were awkward with their tea-cups, and talked to each other
in subdued voices, till Elizabeth found them out, summoned them to her side, and made them
happy; the agent who was helping Lady Merton with tea, making himself generally useful; Philip
and another gilded youth, the son, he understood, of a neighbouring peer, who were flirting
with the girl in white; and yet a third fastidious Etonian, who was clearly bored by the ladies,
and was amusing himself with the adjutant and a cigarette in a distant corner. His eyes came
back at last to the pasteur. An able face after all; cool, shrewd, and not unspiritual. Very
soon, he, the parson--whose name was Everett--and Elizabeth were drawn into conversation, and
Marietta under Everett's good-humoured glance found himself observed as well as observer.

"You are trying to decipher us?" said Everett, at last, with a smile. "Well, we are not easy."

"Could you be a great nation if you were?"

"Perhaps not. England just now is a palimpsest--the new writing everywhere on top of the old.
Yet it is the same parchment, and the old is there. Now you are writing on a fresh skin."

"But with the old ideas!" said Mariette, a flash in his dark eyes. "Church--State--family!--there
is nothing else to write with."

The two men drew closer together, and plunged into conversation. Elizabeth was left solitary
a moment, behind the tea-things. The buzz of the room, the hearty laugh of the Lord Lieutenant,
reached the outer ear. But every deeper sense was strained to catch a voice--a step--that must
soon be here. And presently across the room, her eyes met her mother's, and their two expectancies
touched.

"Mother!--here is Mr. Anderson!"

Philip entered joyously, escorting his guest.

To Anderson's half-dazzled sight, the room, which was now fully lit by lamplight and fire,
seemed crowded. He found himself greeted by a gentle grey-haired lady of fifty-five, with a
strong likeness to a face he knew; and then his hand touched Elizabeth's. Various commonplaces
passed between him and her, as to his journey, the new motor which had brought him to the house,
the frosty evening. Mariette gave him a nod and smile, and he was introduced to various men
who bowed without any change of expression, and to a girl, who smiled carelessly, and turned
immediately towards Philip, hanging over the back of her chair.

Elizabeth pointed to a seat beside her, and gave him tea. They talked of London a little, and
his first impressions. All the time he was trying to grasp the identity of the woman speaking
with the woman he had parted from in Canada. Something surely had gone? This restrained and
rather cold person was not the Elizabeth of the Rockies. He watched her when she turned from
him to her other guests; her light impersonal manner towards the younger men, with its occasional
touch of satire; the friendly relation between her and the parson; the kindly deference she
showed the old Lord Lieutenant. Evidently she was mistress here, much more than her mother.
Everything seemed to be referred to her, to circle round her.

Presently there was a stir in the room. Lord Waynflete asked for his carriage.

"Don't forget, my dear lady, that you open the new Town Hall next Wednesday," he said, as he
made his way to Elizabeth.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"But you make the speech!"

"Not at all. They only want to hear you. And there'll be a great crowd."

"Elizabeth can't speak worth a cent!" said Philip, with brotherly candour. "Can you, Lisa?"

"I don't believe it," said Lord Waynflete, "but it don't matter. All they want is that a Gaddesden
should say something. Ah, Mrs. Gaddesden--how glorious the Romney looks to-night!" He turned
to the fireplace, admiring the illuminated picture, his hands on his sides.

"Is it an ancestress?" Mariette addressed the question to Elizabeth.

"Yes. She had three husbands, and is supposed to have murdered the fourth," said Elizabeth drily.

"All the same she's an extremely handsome woman," put in Lord Waynflete. "And as you're the
image of her, Lady Merton, you'd better not run her down." Elizabeth joined in the laugh against
herself and the speaker turned to Anderson.

"You'll find this place a perfect treasure-house, Mr. Anderson, and I advise you to study it--for
the Radicals won't leave any of us anything, before many years are out. You're from Manitoba?
Ah, you're not troubled with any of these Socialist fellows yet! But you'll get 'em--you'll
get 'em--like rats in the corn. They'll pull the old flag down if they can. But you'll help
us to keep it flying. The Colonies are our hope--we look to the Colonies!"

The handsome old man raised an oratorical hand, and looked round on his audience, like one
to whom public speaking was second nature.

Anderson made a gesture of assent; he was not really expected to say anything. Mariette in
the background observed the speaker with an amused and critical detachment.

"Your carriage will be round directly, Lord Waynflete," said Philip, "but I don't see why you
should go."

"My dear fellow--I have to catch the night train. There is a most important debate in the House
of Lords to-morrow." He turned to the Canadian politely. "Of course you know there is an autumn
session on. With these Radical Governments we shall soon have one every year."

"What! the Education Bill again to-morrow?" said Everett. "What are you going to do with it?"

Lord Waynflete looked at the speaker with some distaste. He did not much approve of sporting
parsons, and Everett's opinions were too Liberal to please him. But he let himself be drawn,
and soon the whole room was in eager debate on some of the old hot issues between Church and
Dissent. Lord Waynflete ceased to be merely fatuous and kindly. His talk became shrewd, statesmanlike
even; he was the typical English aristocrat and Anglican Churchman, discussing topics with
which he had been familiar from his cradle, and in a manner and tone which every man in the
room--save the two Canadians--accepted without question. He was the natural leader of these
men of the land-owning or military class; they liked to hear him harangue; and harangue he
did, till the striking of a clock suddenly checked him.

"I must be off! Well, Mrs. Gaddesden, it's the Church--the Church we have to think of!--the
Church we have to fight for! What would England be without the Church--let's ask ourselves
that. Good-bye--good-bye!"

"Is he talking of the Anglican establishment?" muttered Mariette. "Quel drôle de vieillard!"

The parson heard him, and, with a twinkle in his eyes, turned and proposed to show the French
Canadian the famous library of the house.

The party melted away. Even Elizabeth had been summoned for some last word with Lord Waynflete
on the subject of the opening of the Town Hall. Anderson was left alone.

He looked around him, at the room, the pictures, the panelled walls, and then moving to the
window which was still unshuttered, he gazed out into the starlit dusk, and the dim, stately
landscape. There were lights in the church showing the stained glass of the perpendicular windows,
and a flight of rooks was circling round the old tower.

As he stood there, somebody came back into the room. It was the adjutant, looking for his hat.

"Jolly old place, isn't it?" said the young man civilly, seeing that the stranger was studying
the view. "It's to be hoped that Philip will keep it up properly."

"He seems fond of it," said Anderson.

"Oh, yes! But you've got to be a big man to fill the position. However, there's money enough.
They're all rich--and they marry money."

Anderson murmured something inaudible, and the young man departed.

A little later Anderson and Elizabeth were seated together in the Red Drawing Room. Mrs. Gaddesden,
after a little perfunctory conversation with the new-comer, had disappeared on the plea of
letters to write. The girl in white, the centre of a large party in the hall, was flirting
to her heart's content. Philip would have dearly liked to stay and flirt with her himself;
but his mother, terrified by his pallor and fatigue after the exertion of the shoot, had hurried
him off to take a warm bath and rest before dinner. So that Anderson and Elizabeth were alone.

Conversation between them did not move easily. Elizabeth was conscious of an oppression against
which it seemed vain to fight. Up to the moment of his sailing from Canada his letters had
been frank and full, the letters of a deeply attached friend, though with no trace in them
of the language of love. What change was it that the touch of English ground--the sight of
Martindale--had wrought? He talked with some readiness of the early stages of his mission--of
the kindness shown to him by English public men, and the impressions of a first night in the
House of Commons. But his manner was constrained; anything that he said might have been heard
by all the world; and as their talk progressed, Elizabeth felt a miserable paralysis descending
on her own will. She grew whiter and whiter. This old house in which they sat, with its splendours
and treasures, this environment of the past all about them seemed to engulf and entomb them
both. She had looked forward with a girlish pleasure--and yet with a certain tremor--to showing
Anderson her old home, the things she loved and had inherited. And now it was as though she
were vulgarly conscious of wealth and ancestry as dividing her from him. The wildness within
her which found its scope and its voice in Canada was here like an imprisoned stream, chafing
in caverns underground. Ah! it had been easy to defy the Old World in Canada, its myriad voices
and claims--the many-fingered magic with which an old society plays on those born into it!

"I shall be here perhaps a month," said Anderson, "but then I shall be wanted at Ottawa."

And he began to describe a new matter in which he had been lately engaged--a large development
scheme applying to some of the great Peace River region north of Edmonton. And as he told her
of his August journey through this noble country, with its superb rivers, its shining lakes
and forests, and its scattered settlers, waiting for a Government which was their servant and
not their tyrant, to come and help their first steps in ordered civilisation; to bring steamers
to their waters, railways to link their settlements, and fresh settlers to let loose the fertile
forces of their earth--she suddenly saw in him his old self--the Anderson who had sat beside
her in the crossing of the prairies, who had looked into her eyes the day of Roger's Pass.
He had grown older and thinner; his hair was even lightly touched with grey. But the traces
in him of endurance and of pain were like the weathering of a fine building; mellowing had
come, and strength had not been lost.

Yet still no word of feeling, of intimacy even. Her soul cried out within her, but there was
no answer. Then, when it was time to dress, and she led him through the hall, to the inlaid
staircase with its famous balustrading--early English ironwork of extraordinary delicacy--and
through the endless corridors upstairs, old and dim, but crowded with portraits and fine furniture,
Anderson looked round him in amazement.

"What a wonderful place!"

"It is too old!" cried Elizabeth, petulantly; then with a touch of repentance--"Yet of course
we love it. We are not so stifled here as you would be."

He smiled and did not reply.

"Confess you have been stifled--ever since you came to England."

He drew a long breath, throwing back his head with a gesture which made Elizabeth smile. He
smiled in return.

"It was you who warned me how small it would all seem. Such little fields--such little rivers--such
tiny journeys! And these immense towns treading on each other's heels. Don't you feel crowded up?"

"You are home-sick already?"

He laughed--"No, no!" But the gleam in his eyes admitted it. And Elizabeth's heart sank--down
and down.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few more guests arrived for Sunday--a couple of politicians, a journalist, a poet, one or
two agreeable women, a young Lord S., who had just succeeded to one of the oldest of English
marquisates, and so on.

Elizabeth had chosen the party to give Anderson pleasure, and as a guest he did not disappoint
her pride in him. He talked well and modestly, and the feeling towards Canada and the Canadians
in English society had been of late years so friendly that although there was often colossal
ignorance, there was no coolness in the atmosphere about him. Lord S. confused Lake Superior
with Lake Ontario, and was of opinion that the Mackenzie River flowed into the Ottawa. But
he was kind enough to say that he would far sooner go to Canada than any of "those beastly
places abroad"--and as he was just a simple handsome youth, Anderson took to him, as he had
taken to Philip at Lake Louise, and by the afternoon of Sunday was talking sport and big game
in a manner to hold the smoking-room enthralled.

Only unfortunately Philip was not there to hear. He had been over-tired by the shoot, and had
caught a chill beside. The doctor was in the house, and Mrs. Gaddesden had very little mind
to give to her Sunday party. Elizabeth felt a thrill of something like comfort as she noticed
how in the course of the day Anderson unconsciously slipped back into the old Canadian position;
sitting with Philip, amusing him and "chaffing" him; inducing him to obey his doctor; cheering
his mother, and in general producing in Martindale itself the same impression of masculine
help and support which he had produced on Elizabeth, five months before, in a Canadian hotel.

By Sunday evening Mrs. Gaddesden, instead of a watchful enemy, had become his firm friend;
and in her timid, confused way she asked him to come for a walk with her in the November dusk.
Then, to his astonishment, she poured out her heart to him about her son, whose health, together
with his recklessness, his determination to live like other and sound men, was making the two
women who loved him more and more anxious. Anderson was very sorry for the little lady, and
genuinely alarmed himself with regard to Philip, whose physical condition seemed to him to
have changed considerably for the worse since the Canadian journey. His kindness, his real
concern, melted Mrs. Gaddesden's heart.

"I hope we shall find you in town when we come up!" she said, eagerly, as they turned back
to the house, forgetting, in her maternal egotism, everything but her boy. "Our man here wants
a consultation. We shall go up next week for a short time before Christmas."

Anderson hesitated a moment.

"Yes," he said, slowly, but in a changed voice, "Yes, I shall still be there."

Whereupon, with perturbation, Mrs. Gaddesden at last remembered there were other lions in the
path. They had not said a single word--however conventional--of Elizabeth. But she quickly
consoled herself by the reflection that he must have seen by now, poor fellow, how hopeless
it was; and that being so, what was there to be said against admitting him to their circle,
as a real friend of all the family--Philip's friend, Elizabeth's, and her own?

That night Mrs. Gaddesden was awakened by her maid between twelve and one. Mr. Gaddesden wanted
a certain medicine that he thought was in his mother's room. Mrs. Gaddesden threw on her dressing-gown
and looked for it anxiously in vain. Perhaps Elizabeth might remember where it was last seen.
She hurried to her. Elizabeth had a sitting-room and bedroom at the end of the corridor, and
Mrs. Gaddesden went into the sitting-room first, as quietly as possible, so as not to startle
her daughter.

She had hardly entered and closed the door behind her, guided by the light of a still flickering
fire, when a sound from the inner room arrested her.

Elizabeth--Elizabeth in distress?

The mother stood rooted to the spot, in a sudden anguish. Elizabeth--sobbing? Only once in
her life had Mrs. Gaddesden heard that sound before--the night that the news of Francis Merton's
death reached Martindale, and Elizabeth had wept, as her mother believed, more for what her
young husband might have been to her, than for what he had been. Elizabeth's eyes filled readily
with tears answering to pity or high feeling; but this fierce stifled emotion--this abandonment
of pain!

Mrs. Gaddesden stood trembling and motionless, the tears on her own cheeks. Conjecture hurried
through her mind. She seemed to be learning her daughter, her gay and tender Elizabeth, afresh.
At last she turned and crept out of the room, noiselessly shutting the door. After lingering
a while in the passage, she knocked, with an uncertain hand, and waited till Elizabeth came--Elizabeth,
hardly visible in the firelight, her brown hair falling like a veil round her face.

CHAPTER XIV

A few days later the Gaddesdens were in town, settled in a house in Portman Square. Philip
was increasingly ill, and moreover shrouded in a bitterness of spirit which wrung his mother's
heart. She suspected a new cause for it in the fancy that he had lately taken for Alice Lucas,
the girl in the white chiffon, who had piped to Mariette in vain. Not that he ever now wanted
to see her. He had passed into a phase indeed of refusing all society--except that of George
Anderson. A floor of the Portman Square house was given up to him. Various treatments were
being tried, and as soon as he was strong enough his mother was to take him to the South. Meanwhile
his only pleasure seemed to lie in Anderson's visits, which however could not be frequent,
for the business of the Conference was heavy, and after the daily sittings were over, the interviews
and correspondence connected with them took much time.

On these occasions, whether early in the morning before the business of the day began, or in
the hour before dinner--sometimes even late at night--Anderson after his chat with the invalid
would descend from Philip's room to the drawing-room below, only allowing himself a few minutes,
and glancing always with a quickening of the pulse through the shadows of the large room, to
see whether it held two persons or one. Mrs. Gaddesden was invariably there; a small, faded
woman in trailing lace dresses, who would sit waiting for him, her embroidery on her knee,
and when he appeared would hurry across the floor to meet him, dropping silks, scissors, handkerchief
on the way. This dropping of all her incidental possessions--a performance repeated night after
night, and followed always by her soft fluttering apologies--soon came to be symbolic, in Anderson's
eyes. She moved on the impulse of the moment, without thinking what she might scatter by the
way. Yet the impulse was always a loving impulse--and the regrets were sincere.

As to the relation to Anderson, Philip was here the pivot of the situation exactly as he had
been in Canada. Just as his physical weakness, and the demands he founded upon it had bound
the Canadian to their chariot wheels in the Rockies, so now--mutatis mutandis--in London. Mrs.
Gaddesden before a week was over had become pitifully dependent upon him, simply because Philip
was pleased to desire his society, and showed a flicker of cheerfulness whenever he appeared.
She was torn indeed between her memory of Elizabeth's sobbing, and her hunger to give Philip
the moon out of the sky, should he happen to want it. Sons must come first, daughters second;
such has been the philosophy of mothers from the beginning. She feared--desperately feared--that
Elizabeth had given her heart away. And as she agreed with Philip that it would not be a seemly
or tolerable marriage for Elizabeth, she would, in the natural course of things, both for Elizabeth's
sake and the family's, have tried to keep the unseemly suitor at a distance. But here he was,
planted somehow in the very midst of their life, and she, making feeble efforts day after day
to induce him to root himself there still more firmly. Sometimes indeed she would try to press
alternatives on Philip. But Philip would not have them. What with the physical and moral force
that seemed to radiate from Anderson, and bring stimulus with them to the weaker life--and
what with the lad's sick alienation for the moment from his ordinary friends and occupations,
Anderson reigned supreme, often clearly to his own trouble and embarrassment. Had it not been
for Philip, Portman Square would have seen him but seldom. That Elizabeth knew with a sharp
certainty, dim though it might be to her mother. But as it was, the boy's tragic clinging to
his new friend governed all else, simply because at the bottom of each heart, unrecognised
and unexpressed, lurked the same foreboding, the same fear of fears.

The tragic clinging was also, alack, a tragic selfishness. Philip had a substantial share of
that quick perception which in Elizabeth became something exquisite and impersonal, the source
of all high emotions. When Delaine had first suggested to him "an attachment" between Anderson
and his sister, a hundred impressions of his own had emerged to verify the statement and aggravate
his wrath; and when Anderson had said "a man of my history is not going to ask your sister
to marry him," Philip perfectly understood that but for the history the attempt would have
been made. Anderson was therefore--most unreasonably and presumptuously--in love with Elizabeth;
and as to Elizabeth, the indications here also were not lost upon Philip. It was all very amazing,
and he wished, to use his phrase to his mother, that it would "work off." But whether or no,
he could not do without Anderson--if Anderson was to be had. He threw him and Elizabeth together,
recklessly; trusting to Anderson's word, and unable to resist his own craving for comfort and
distraction.

The days passed on, days so charged with feeling for Elizabeth that they could only be met
at all by a kind of resolute stillness and self-control. Philip was very dependent on the gossip
his mother and sister brought him from the world outside. Elizabeth therefore, to please him,
went into society as usual, and forgot her heartaches, for her brother and for herself, as
best she could. Outwardly she was much occupied in doing all that could be done--socially and
even politically--for Anderson and Mariette. She had power and she used it. The two friends
found themselves the object of one of those sudden cordialities that open all doors, even the
most difficult, and run like a warm wave through London society. Mariette remained throughout
the ironic spectator--friendly on his own terms, but entirely rejecting, often, the terms offered
him tacitly or openly, by his English acquaintance.

"Your ways are not mine--your ideals are not mine, God forbid they should be!"--he seemed to
be constantly saying. "But we happen to be oxen bound under the same yoke, and dragging the
same plough. No gush, please--but at the same time no ill-will! Loyal?--to your loyalties?
Oh yes--quite sufficiently--so long as you don't ask us to let it interfere with our loyalty
to our own! Don't be such fools as to expect us to take much interest in your Imperial orgies.
But we're all right! Only let us alone--we're all right!"

