Dame Elliot could not bear it. Bursting into tears of deep emotion, she beat down and imprinted
a kiss on Edith's cold brow, while she exclaimed, in broken accents--

'Yes! it is true, dearest Edith.  You may live--and live, we hope, for happiness as great as
has ever been your portion.'

'O, my God!' cried Edith-'this is too much!--too much of joy for one so weak and faithless.
But tell me, my friends--tell me all. I can bear it now.'

Gently and gradually Elliot prepared her for the blissful certainty of her husband's safety;
and when he found that illness had not greatly weakened her natural strength of mind, and that
she could bear the joy that awaited her, he gave her Roger's own letter, and felt assured that
the tears she, at length, shed at the sight of his hand-writing, would relieve and calm her
over-burdened heart.

In this he judged truly; for, though Edith was greatly exhausted after this strong excitement,
yet she passed a tranquil night, and was so much recovered on the following morning as to be
able to converse composedly with her kind friends. The fever had passed away; and the sense
of restored happiness, joined to youth and a naturally good constitution, had a rapid effect
in renovating her strength and spirits, and recalling a faint bloom to her cheek.

Before the Indian set out on his return to Seacomb, she insisted on seeing him, and herself
delivering to him a letter to Roger, in which she had carefully avoided all mention of her
illness.  She made numerous inquiries of him relative to her husband's health and present situation;
and charged him to convey her packet safely, and tell his employer that he had seen her and
his child well and happy. She could say this with truth; for so rapidly had she recovered,
that the inexperienced eye of the Indian could detect no remaining indisposition in the slight
and graceful form of the interesting pale-face, or any trace of disease in the bright eye that
smiled so kindly upon him.

He departed with the friends of Williams, and earnestly did his wife wish that it had been
possible for her to accompany them, and join her husband at once. But this could not be; and
she could only endeavor to regain her strength, so as to be able to proceed to Plymouth, as
soon as the promised vessel arrived. In due time it came: and bidding her kind and devoted
friends an affectionate farewell, Edith and her child embarked, with all the little property
that remained to her, and soon found herself once more beneath the peaceful roof of her parents.

Until she arrived at Plymouth, she was not aware of the fresh trial that had befallen her husband,
in being compelled to abandon his settlement at Seacomb, and remove into the Narragansett district.
This change was distressing to her, as it net only placed the lines of her future habitation
at a greater distance from her parents and friends at New Plymouth, but also removed it further
from all civilized life, and into a district inhabited by a tribe whom she had learnt to dread
from her childhood, as the rivals and foes of the friendly Wampanoges. Still these considerations
did not, in any measure, abate her eagerness to fellow Roger, and take her part in all his
toils and anxieties. The winter had passed away, and, though far from genial, the weather was
more tolerable for travelling; and Edith resolved to set out.

All the arguments and entreaties of Helen and Rodolph to induce her to delay her journey for
some months, were ineffectual. Her husband lived; and he was suffering hardship--and could
she remain separated from him, now that her own strength had been restored? The only concession
she could be persuaded to make, was to wait until some friend from Plymouth was found to accompany
her. Gladly would her father have done so; but he was suffering so severely from the ague that
so often attacked the settlement in the spring months, as to be perfectly incompetent to attempt
the toilsome journey. No vessel could now be procured, and it was on foot that Edith proposed
to traverse the wide extent of wilderness that stretched between Plymouth and Roger's place
of refuge.

Two faithful and active Indians were appointed by Mooanam to be her guides, and to carry the
infant which she would not consent to leave behind her; and, in order that this might be accomplished
with greater facility, Apannow provided her with one of the Indian cradles--or, rather, pouches--in
which the red squaws so commonly carry their young children on their backs.  This was thickly
lined with soft and elastic bog-moss, and well adapted to the purpose for which it was designed.

All was prepared, and the impatient Edith only waited for a companion from among her own countrymen,
who were all so much occupied at that busy season as to feel little disposed to undertake so
long a journey. But she found one at length who was sufficiently interested in her happiness,
and that of her husband, to leave his home and his occupations, and offer to be her protector.
This was the excellent Edward Winslow, who had been her father's constant friend ever since
their first emigration, and who bad also learnt to know and value Roger Williams, during his
residence at Plymouth.

With such a companion, Edith felt she had nothing to fear; and her anxious parents committed
her to his care with greater confidence than they would have done to that of any other protector.
His natural sagacity, his courage, and his knowledge of the Indians and their language, rendered
him peculiarly suitable for the enterprise; and his warm friendship for Rodolph and all his
family, and the lively powers of his pious and intelligent mind, ensured to Edith both a kind
and an agreeable fellow-traveler.

Nevertheless, it was not without many prayers and tears that Helen saw her daughter once more
leave her childhood's home, and commence her journey.  But Edith's spirits were joyous, and
her hopes were high; and her child lay smiling contentedly in its strange nest, which was slung
on the shoulders of one of the Indian guides.  The other carried a small stock of provisions,
and other necessaries, and thus the little party set forth.

We will rot follow them, day by day, in their fatiguing journey; but merely state that its
length and difficulty exceeded even the expectations of Edith and her companion; but never
damped the persevering courage of the former, or drew from her a complaint, or a wish to return.
She only felt that every step, however rough and toilsome, carried her nearer to the object
that was dearest to her on earth; and this conviction supported her when otherwise her strength
must have failed.

Sometimes an Indian wigwam afforded her rest and shelter; but, frequently, a bed of dry leaves,
and a roof of boughs, were the best lodging that Winslow and the Indians could provide for
her and her little infant. Happily the weather was calm and mild, and the season sufficiently
advanced to enable the Indians to find a quantity of nutritious roots, which, with the meal,
or nokake, that they carried with them--or procured from the natives by the way--formed the
chief subsistence of the party. Occasionally, their fare was improved by a wild turkey, or
wood duck; or, perhaps, a squirrel or hare, that Winslow brought down with his gun; but often
the day's journey was performed with no other refreshment than a few spoonsful of dry meal,
and a draught of cold water, until something more nourishing could be procured at their place
of repose for the right.

Roger Williams was standing one evening on the bank of the river, or rather, arm of the sea,
called Seacock, near the spot where he had first landed, and to which he had given the name
of 'What Cheer?' He was examining the landing-place, and contriving some means of turning it
into a sort of harbor for canoes that belonged to the settlers in his new village, when his
attention was attracted to the other side of the river, by hearing his own name loudly called
by native voices. He looked to the spot, and saw two Indians plunge into the water, and swim
rapidly towards him: and, as they did so, he also observed two other figures emerge from a
grove of trees that reached nearly to the eastern brink of the inlet.

The distance was considerable, but Roger's keen eye could discern that one of them was a female
form; and, as they approached nearer to the water's edge, and the rays of the evening sun fell
brightly upon them, he also saw that the arms of that graceful and familiar form carried an infant.

‘Surely it is an illusion!' he exclaimed.  I have so long pictured to my mind that blessed
sight, that at length my fancy seems realized. It cannot be!'

But again his name was called--not now with an Indian accent, but in the manly English tones
of Edward Winslow 'Bring down a canoe, Roger!' he shouted across the Water. 'Edith and your
child cannot swim this, arm of the sea.'

It was then true! Edith--his beloved wife--was there and only that narrow inlet divided them!
The Indians had sprung to the shore, and were waiting his directions, to go in search of a
canoe; but for a few moments he did not regard them, so riveted were his eyes, and all his
senses, on the opposite shore. But now he remembered that only by means of a boat could he
attain that shore; and making a signal of wild joy and welcome to Edith, he hurried up the
creek with the Indians, and rapidly unloosed the moorings of his canoe, which lay securely
behind a projecting rock. He leaped into it, leaving the natives on the shore, and paddled
the canoe swiftly down the creek, to the spot where Edith stood waiting to receive him, trembling
with agitation and joy.

When the first burst of emotion, at this, long-desired meeting with his wife and hitherto unknown
child, had subsided, Roger warmly welcomed the friend who had so kindly protected them during
their long journey, and brought them to the wild spot that was now his only home. He then led
them to the canoe, and, with Winslow's assistance, soon rowed them to the other side, and conducted
them to his, infant settlement.

The huts were indeed erected, and covered in with shingle roofs; but their appearance promised
little of outward comfort to Edith.  Yet an inward joy and satisfaction were now permitted
to her, which, at one time, she had never hoped to enjoy again on earth; and all externals
were as nothing when compared with this. Nevertheless, she exerted herself with all a woman's
taste and skill to arrange the simple furniture of the hut, and even to add a something of
decoration; and both her husband and Winslow wondered at the improvement which she soon effected
in the appearance of the dwelling, and the ingenuity with which she converted the rudest materials
into articles of use or ornament.

Her joyous spirits, and active moments, gave a life and animation to the hitherto dreary scene;
and Roger felt that he had, indeed, in her a helpmate, who would cheer the loneliest situation,
and shed a grace and charm ever poverty itself.

Winslow appreciated all her excellent and amiable qualities very highly also; and yet he lamented
the lot of both his friends, who had to endure, in this comparative solitude, all the struggles,
and all the hardships, that the Pilgrim Fathers had once encountered, and had now conquered.

But the visit of this, 'great and pious soul,' as Roger described Edward Winslow, very greatly
cheered the heart of the exiles. He remained for many weeks in the new settlement; and only
left it when the advance of the season warned him that the short Indian summer was drawing
to an end.  A vessel which arrived at that time from Plymouth, and which brought the wives
and families of several of the settlers, afforded him the means of returning by sea, and avoiding
the tedious land journey. He departed, with the thanks and blessings of his friends, to convey
to Edith's, parents the happy intelligence that she was both well and happy, and that it was
evident her cheerful spirit had power to sustain her through every difficulty by which she
might be surrounded.

CHAPTER XXII.

'Epictetus says:  "Every thing hath two handles." The art of taking things by the right handle,
or the better side--which charity always doth--would save much of those janglings and heart-burnings
that so abound in the world.'    ARCHBISHOP LEIGHTON.

For a long period an unbroken peace had subsisted between the English settlers and the native
tribes. But this could no longer be maintained, and a succession of petty injuries and mutual
misunderstandings brought about a state of hostility that the Pilgrim Fathers had labored--and,
generally, with success--to avert.

Their kind and equitable treatment of the Indians had not been, as we have had occasion to
show, adopted by the later emigrants, and doubt and suspicion had taken the place of that confidence
and respect with which the red men had soon learnt to regard the settlers of New Plymouth.

The recent colony of Connecticut, which was composed of bands of settlers from Plymouth and
Massachusetts, and also a few Dutch planters, first came into hostile collision with the natives.
The settlers of New Plymouth had entered upon an almost deserted land; those of Massachusetts
had ensured to themselves safety by their superior strength; and those among the Narragansetts
were protected from injury by the friendly feelings of the neighboring Indians. But the settlement
of Connecticut was surrounded by hardy and hostile races, and could only enjoy security so
long as the mutual hatred of the native tribes prevented them from uniting against the intruders.

In the extreme west of the Narragansett district, and near the entrance of Long Island Sound,
dwelt a powerful division of the Pequodees; of that race of red warriors whose pride and ambition
caused them to be both feared and hated by the other tribes in the vicinity.  They could bring
upwards of seven hundred warriors into the field, and their Chief, Sassacus, had, in common
with almost all the great Indian Sagamores, a number of subordinate chiefs, who yielded to
him a certain degree of obedience. The Narragansetts were the only tribe that could at all
compete in strength with the fierce and haughty Pequodees; and their young Chieftain, Miantonomo,
was already regarded by Sassacus as a dangerous rival.

Such was the feeling that existed among the tribes near the settlements of Connecticut, when
an event occurred that disturbed the peace of the whole community.  Two merchants of Virginia,
who had long dwelt in Massachusetts, and who were engaged in trafficking with the Connecticut
settlers, were suddenly and treacherously attacked by a party of Pequodees, and, with their
attendants, barbarously murdered.  And shortly afterwards another trader, named Oldham, met
the same fate, being assassinated while he was quietly sleeping in his boat, by some Indians
who had, but an hour before, been conversing with him in a friendly manner. This latter murder
did not take place actually among the Pequodees, but on a small island belonging to the Narragansetts,
called Block Island. But the inhabitants denied all knowledge of its perpetration, and the
murderers fled to the Pequodees, by whom they were received and sheltered.  A strong suspicion,
therefore, lay on them as being guilty of the latter crime, as well as the former.

The government of Massachusetts immediately resolved on punishing the offenders, and a troop
of eighty or ninety men were sent off to Block Island, to seek for the murderers. The natives
endeavored to oppose their landing; but, after a short contest, they fled, and hid themselves
in the woods.  For two days the Boston soldiers remained on the island, burning and devastating
the villages and fields, end firing at random into the thickets, but without seeing a single
being.  They then broke up the canoes that lay on the beach, and sailed away to the country
of the Pequodees to insist on the guilty individuals being delivered to them and, on this condition,
to offer peace.  But neither the murderers nor their protectors were to be found. All had fled
to the forests and the marshes, whither the English could not follow them, and they merely
succeeded in killing and wounding a few stragglers, and burning the huts that came in their way.

This fruitless expedition rendered the Pequodees bolder than ever, and the neighboring towns
were harassed by their nightly attacks, and, notwithstanding all their precautions, and the
patrols that were set on every side, the savages fell on the whites whenever they were at work
in the distant fields. They slew the men with their tomahawks end dragged their wretched wives
and daughters away to captivity; and thus, in a short time, thirty of the English settlers
had become the victims of their fury. Meanwhile, messengers were sent to Plymouth and Massachusetts,
to implore their aid, and the latter state promised two hundred soldiers, and the former forty,
which were as many as its small population could afford.

The Pequodees, dreading the power of the English, endeavored to move the Narragansetts--who
had from the most distant times been their rivals and enemies--to join them in an offensive
and defensive alliance against the white men, whom they represented as a common foe to the
Indians, and the future destroyers of their race.

This intended confederation was discovered by Roger Williams, who spent much of his time in
visiting the Indian villages and instructing the natives, with all of whom he obtained a remarkable
degree of influence. This noble-minded and truly Christian-spirited man immediately seized
the opportunity of repaying with benefits the heavy injuries that he had received from the
Massachusetts; and, with an admirable magnanimity and self devotion, he set himself to prevent
the dangerous alliance.

The government of Massachusetts were well aware that Williams was the only man who could effect
this desirable object; and, on hearing from him of the schemes of Sassacus, they immediately
requested the former victim of their unjust persecution to employ his influence with the natives
for the benefit of his countrymen: and well and zealously be complied with this request. He
left his now comfortable home, and all the various employments that occupied his time, and
travelled restlessly from place to place, defying the storms and the waves, in a miserable
canoe; and meeting, with an undaunted courage, the assembled parties of hostile tribes whom
he sought, at his own extreme peril, to bring into alliance with the English. He succeeded
in his patriotic object, and, after along doubtful negotiation, he persuaded the Narragansetts
to refuse the proffered coalition with the Pequodees. Their young chief, Miantonomo, even went
a journey to Boston, where he was received with distinguished marks of honor and respect, and
signed a treaty which allied him to the settlers against his own countrymen.

The troops from the river-towns assembled together, and went down the Connecticut to attack
the Pequodees in their own land.  Their numbers were but small--not exceeding eighty men--as
each town furnished a much weaker force than had been promised.  But they were joined by a
band of the Mohicans, a hardy race inhabiting the valleys of the Connecticut, and who had been
alienated from the Pequodees by the oppression and arrogance that had excited the enmity of
so many other tribes. The combined forces of the English and Indians were placed under the
command of Captain Mason, a brave and intelligent officer who had served in the Netherlands
under General Fairfax.

The detachment that was expected from New Plymouth was not ready to march at the time of the
troops taking the field.  Captain Standish, therefore, did not set out himself; but he allowed
such of his brother- soldiers as were ready, to precede him, and take part in the commencement
of the campaign. Among these, Rodolph Maitland, who still retained all the fire and energy
of his youth, was the foremost; and he led a little band of brave companions to the place of
rendezvous.  The learned minister Stone--the friend and colleague of Hooker--accompanied the
troops from Boston; for a band of Puritanical warriors would have thought themselves but badly
provided for without such spiritual aid.

The instructions of the government of Connecticut directed Mason to land in the harbor of Pequod,[*]
and thus attack the Indian forces on their own ground. But he found the natural strength of
the place so much greater than he expected, and also observed that it was so watchfully guarded
by his enemies, that he resolved to pass on to the harbor in Narragansett Bay; and, after having
strengthened his forces with the warriors promised by Miantonomo, to attack the Pequodees from
thence. A circumstance occurred here that is so characteristic of the time, and of the manners
of the Puritans, that it must not be omitted. The officers under Mason were dissatisfied with
this alteration in the plan of the campaign, and asserted that the instructions given to the
commander ought to be literally followed. It was, therefore, resolved to refer the question
to the minister, who was directed 'to bring down by prayer the responsive decision of the Lord.'
Stone passed nearly the whole night in prayer and supplication for wisdom to decide the matter,
and the next morning declared to the officers that the view taken by their leader was the right
one; on which they all submitted without a murmur.

[Footnote: Now Newhaven]

The Indian reinforcements continued to increase. Miantonomo brought two hundred warriors, and
other allied tribes joined them on their march, until the number of native auxiliaries amounted
to five hundred.  In these Mason placed little confidence, and would gladly have awaited the
arrival of the forty men from Plymouth, who were already at Providence on their way to join
him. But his men were eager to attack the savages, and the Indians taunted him with cowardice
for desiring to delay the conflict; and he was forced to advance at once.

The great strength of the Pequodees consisted in two large forts, in one of which the redoubted
Chief, Sassacus, himself commanded. The other was situated on the banks of the Mystic, an inconsiderable
river that runs parallel to the Connecticut. These Indian forts or castles consisted of wooden
palisades, thirty or forty feet high, generally erected on an elevated situation, and enclosing
a space sufficiently large to contain a considerable number of wigwams for the aged men--or
whiteheads--and the women and children.

These two fortresses were the pride and the confidence of the Pequodees, who believed them
to be invulnerable; as, indeed, they had hitherto found them to the assaults of their own countrymen.
And the other Indian tribes appeared to hold them in the same estimation; for when they found
that it was Mason's intention to march directly to the fort on the Mystic, their courage failed
completely. They were only accustomed to the Indian mode of warfare, which consists in secret
attacks and cunning stratagems; and the idea of braving the terrible Pequodees in their strongholds,
overpowered their resolution.  The very warriors who, only the day before, had boasted of their
deeds, now were crest-fallen, and cried out, 'Sassacus is a God; he is invincible!' and they
deserted in troops, and returned to their own dwellings. Thus the English found themselves
deprived of at least a hundred of their Narragansett allies. The rest remained with them, as
did also the Mohicans; but their fear of the Pequodees was so great, that Mason could only
employ them as a sort of rear-guard.

Meanwhile, these haughty Indians were exulting in their supposed security, and indulging in
songs and feasting. They believed that the English were terrified at their strength and reputed
numbers, and had fled from the intended place of landing in Pequod harbor in fear, and had
abandoned their enterprise altogether. They, therefore, amused themselves with fishing in the
bay; and then inviting their allies to join their revels, they passed the night in vaunting
of their own great actions, and defying the cowardly whites.

We have seen that their assuming arrogance had aroused the jealousy and hatred of most of the
neighboring tribes; but there were still a few who adhered to their cause, and were willing
to unite with them against the British intruders. Among those, none were more powerful or more
zealous than the Nausetts--that tribe which had so greatly harassed and annoyed the first settlers
at Plymouth, and which still retained the same feelings of enmity that had then influenced
them.  The presence of Henrich among that portion of the tribe that was governed by Tisquantum
had, indeed, secured to himself the respect and regard of almost the whole community; but it
had not weakened the strong prejudice that they, as well as the main body of their tribe, entertained
against his race, or lessened their ardent desire to rid the land of the powerful invaders.

Sassacus was well acquainted with the sentiments of his Nausett allies, and he had lost no
time in securing the co-operation of the Sagamore of the tribe, as soon as he knew that the
British troops were preparing to attack him, and he had, also, dispatched a swift messenger
to meet Tisquantum and his warriors, and entreat them to use all possible expedition to join
him in his own fortress, and assist in defending it against his enemies.

With the present position and intended movements of Tisquantum's party, the Pequodee Chief
was perfectly conversant; for there was one in his castle who was acquainted with the plans
of the Nausetts, and had only left their councils when their camp was pitched on the banks
of the great Missouri.

This individual had reasons of his own, besides his wish to strengthen his countrymen against
the English, for desiring the presence of Tisquantum's warriors in the approaching contest.
He hoped to place Henrich in such a position, that he would have no alternative but either
to lead the Nausetts against his own people or to excite their distrust, and even hatred, by
refusing to do so. He expected, and wished, that he should adopt the latter course; for he
knew that he had himself still many secret adherents in the tribe, who would gladly make this
an excuse for withdrawing their allegiance from the white Sachem, and bestowing it on him;
and thus, at length, the long-sought object of his restless ambition might he attained. And
then--then revenge!--that burning passion of his soul--might quickly be also satiated!

