One day he came in and found my mother and some of us sitting sewing; he asked if he might
read to us, and said that his mother and sister used to like him to read to them when they
had work to do. I do not remember in the least what he read to us, though I am sure it was
appropriate and instructive; but I remember well that he stood while he read, and that his
delivery was as clear and as careful as if he had been reading to a large audience.

After his second marriage we saw him but little, but my mother heard from him now and then,
and he often sent her articles he had written. In the last years of his life he wrote but seldom.
I give extracts from letters over a period of about eighteen years.

FRANCIS NEWMAN IN PRIVATE LIFE BY MRS. BAINSMITH, SCULPTOR

My father and mother were very great personal friends of Newman's, consequently I saw a great
deal of him during my early girlhood.

My father was the late George Bucknall, of Rockdene, Weston-super-Mare, and for many years
was a great invalid. He suffered from locomotor ataxy. Professor Newman lived just across the
road from our house: we could often see him walking about his garden, or sitting at his library
window, and very often he came across to our house to discuss his books or letters with my father.

As a young girl I remember the great fascination of his courtly, genial manners. I shall never
forget my first interview with him. It happened on my return home from school for the holidays.
Being much distressed at having to change from the old pronunciation of Latin to the "new,"
it occurred to my father that I should ask Professor Newman to help me. So I went in to see
him. He was sitting by the fire in large fur-lined boots made of felt, and wearing two coats
(for he always found it difficult to keep sufficiently warm). When I stated my difficulty,
he went to his shelves with his wonderful smile (the room was lined from floor to ceiling with
books) and took out his translation of the Iliad, and read it to me. Then he said quite casually,
"Now I will read the same passage to you in Latin." And he proceeded to read it aloud in a
musical voice of exquisite charm. I cannot express the pleasure which this gave me, nor how
it set me at my ease with him from that moment. He gave me a very warm invitation to come again,
and he would gladly help me in any holiday work I wanted to do.

I was always specially struck with his way of talking about religion. He was very reverent
in what he said, and it was evident that he was at heart deeply religious. I mention this because
in later years it has been often a shock to me to find him condemned by others for doubting
revealed religion.

The Professor's special views on foods were very strong, and he had a great dislike for the
custom of rearing cattle for food. Once he gave a dinner party to show how many choice courses
could be served with vegetarian recipes only. As my mother was ill at the time, I was invited
to go with my father. I remember the delightful way in which he received us. He presented the
"youngest lady" (myself) to the "oldest gentleman"-- the late Professor Jarrett, who was an
old college friend of his, and who was staying with Newman. I remember the awe with which I
gazed at him. Mr. and Mrs. Dymond, Mr. and Mrs. Temperley Grey, and Mr. and Mrs. F. G. Comfort
were among the other guests.

Once, when he was talking to my mother, he said: "You are wearing a nice coat" (a black fur
one). "I suppose it is very dear? How much a yard do you think it would cost?" As he spoke
he looked down at his own coat (the outside one of three), and said: "I have had this coat
twenty years and cannot match the cloth." This was not to be wondered at, for it was a long
hairy one--quite green with age. Another day I came into the room and heard the Professor say
to my mother quite seriously: "I never can understand how it is that my hat always interests
the idle little boys in the street. They say as I pass them, 'Where did you get that hat?'
Everyone wears a hat of one shape or another, and I really fail to see why mine should be so
very interesting."

He was wearing a soft felt hat with a very broad brim, set far back on his head; and with his
peculiar American-looking beard and thin grey locks that came down over the high Gladstone
collar which he always wore, and a black and white shepherd's-plaid scarf wound round his neck
and twisted over in front with its ends tucked into his waistcoat, he looked sufficiently odd.

I remember once running as fast as I could to catch the post, and as I started I saw the Professor
in front of me, evidently bent on attaining the same object. Great was his glee when at last
I did overtake him (though I had some difficulty, for he ran well even at the age of seventy),
and he said, "I thought I would give you a good race, but you have caught me up after all!"

One day he called just as I was going for a ride. He gave me quite a lecture on the dangers
of the side-saddle, and said very earnestly that women ought to ride "astride" (at that time
this was a thing incompris in England). He declared that women in other countries were accustomed
to riding thus, and that it was the only safe method of riding.

At the time of his brother's being made Cardinal, some ardent admirers of the Professor's in
Australia sent him a very beautiful silver inkstand. His delight and pleasure in receiving
such a present was great. But that people should think of him in that way was a great surprise,
for his humility as regarded his powers was a very noticeable fact about him always. The design
of the inkstand was one of great beauty and good workmanship. It represented ostriches standing
under a palm tree, and beside them was an exquisitely made silver feather for a pen.

One afternoon my father, mother, and I were all sitting reading, when the door opened and the
Professor walked in. He held his hat in his hand, and a large rug was fastened round his shoulders
like a shawl (over his three coats), and in his hands he held a small brown-paper parcel. As
he came in he said, "I don't know why your maid did not announce me--I see she is a stranger";
and then turning to my mother, who had been ill, he said, "My cook has made a new vegetarian
dish for my lunch to-day, and I requested her to make some for you, as I am quite sure it will
suit you." The dish turned out to be delicious--one of those which his wonderful vegetarian
cook was so constantly inventing. [Footnote: The parlourmaid, on being reprimanded for not
showing Newman into the drawing-room, said she thought she was only to show "gentlemen" into
the drawing-room!]

Newman had a theory that plants feel pain, and that we should treat all vegetable life as if
it were sentient, and care for it accordingly.

The Professor was always ready to respond to any appeals for the advancement of the Woman's
Suffrage movement. At that time it was very unpopular, but whenever we had meetings in favour
of it at our house he was always the moving spirit.

At Weston-super-Mare Newman lived a life of great seclusion, and I believe I was the only young
girl who visited him constantly--indeed, ours was the only house to which he came almost daily.
Once when he was very ill, I think I was the only visitor admitted; and as Hannah, his old
servant, ushered me in with a smile of pleasure, I heard a curious sound. On looking back to
the hall door I saw a huge netting hanging from where the letter-box should be, trailing along
the floor like a huge sausage, crammed full of letters of enquiry for the Professor. Hannah
told me "the master had not been able to attend to them."

I had long possessed a great wish to devote my time to the study of modelling, and my father's
great wish was that I should devote myself to Art. In 1885 I gained the distinction of a silver
medal at Taunton Exhibition for modelling some flowers in clay on vases, with low relief panels.
This pleased the Professor very much; and when, one day, I told him how keenly I wanted to
model a bust of his head and shoulders, he smiled, and said, with an odd boyish, shy sort of
pleasure, "Was he good- looking enough to be immortalized?" and added he would be delighted
to sit to me for his portrait, though he had always refused to sit to others to be photographed.

So he used to come and talk to my mother, and thus I was able to work at my modelling with
ease. Great was my delight when I found I possessed power over the clay, and was succeeding
in making a portrait which everyone considered a good one. The Professor insisted on my being
very particular over the collar and the scarf. (His collars always had to be made for him,
as he could not buy in shops the kind he wore.) In later years of hard student life that followed,
for me, with the added distinction of other medals, nothing ever came up to the excitement
caused by my portrait of the Professor. The bust [Footnote: This bust is now standing in the
general library of London University, with this inscription:--

                       "FRANCIS WILLIAM NEWMAN
                       (brother of the Cardinal),

             Emeritus Professor of University College, London.
                Natus June 27, 1805. Obiit October 4th, 1897.
   As an expression of the great esteem and affection in which he was held
         by all who knew him, this bust (modelled from life by the
               Sculptor) is presented to this University by

                                         GEORGINA BAINSMITH, Sculptor,
"St. Ives, Cornwall." Aug. 1907.] has always been one of my greatest
treasures; and after the lapse of years that have gone by since it was
first modelled, I still revere and reverence his memory and his truly
beautiful life. Whatever he wrote, this is what his actual life and
deeds expressed strongly: "he lived to do good." This is what impressed
me most as a young girl, and my life has been richer and nobler for the
honour and privilege of knowing Francis Newman.

                                           Georgina Bainsmith,
nee Bucknall. St. Ives, Cornwall.

CHAPTER VII

LETTERS TO ONE OF HIS GREATEST FRIENDS, DR. NICHOLSON

Dr. Nicholson, a native of Barbadoes, was only fourteen years old when his father, Rev. Mark
Nicholson, came to England. [Footnote: I am indebted for these facts of Dr. Nicholson's life
to some printed data kindly sent me by his daughter.] He was sent to a private school at Bristol,
and went on to Oxford, where he took his B.A. degree. Later on he went to study Oriental languages
at Gottingen; and there he became the pupil of the famous Dr. Ewald, Professor of Oriental
Languages. At the end of his work there Dr. Nicholson obtained the Ph.D. degree. The Professor
and he became close friends, and a correspondence began between them, on Dr. Nicholson's departure,
which lasted unbroken till the Professor's death. He was perfectly conversant with Latin and
Greek, and also Arabic, while Hebrew was almost as familiar a language; and as for his knowledge
of Sanscrit, Ethiopian, Gothic, Chaldean, Syriac, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Danish,
it was as perfect as could be. He had, in the truest sense, the gift of tongues. Sixteen languages,
indeed, he had mastered besides his own. He had, in very truth, a perfect genius for them.
And it was no slipshod attainment with him to learn any one of the sixteen; for by the time
he had mastered a language he practically knew it inside and out. He loved this study perhaps
more than any other, because it gave him a truer insight into Holy Scripture. Many articles
on the Hebrew Scriptures were contributed by him to Kitto's Biblical Encyclopaedia, and there
are many allusions to these in Newman's letters which follow. He translated Dr. Ewald's Hebrew
Grammar, and thus it became well known to Englishmen.

Dr. Nicholson lived for forty years at Penrith. He did not care to go much in society; he was
too true a student for that. For the two studies (and social life is certainly one) are so
diametrically opposed regarded as pursuits, that it is almost impossible to make the day long
enough to devote oneself to both. "Love to study" might very truly have been recognized as
his life motto, even as it was that of one of the greatest students at Harrow a few years ago,
Rev. Thomas Hancock, for both men cared nothing for fame. Dr. Nicholson was a man of strong
religious tendencies, and though he was in no way narrow in his views of other religious societies,
yet he was decidedly most in touch with the Anglican Church. As a politician he was a Liberal.
Fifty years ago he married the second daughter of Captain Waring, R.N., and had six children.

He died (in November, 1886), as Rev. E. W. Chapman, Vicar of Penrith, said, "in perfect peace,
with our Lord's Name and our Lord's last words on his lips. His presence in the town, his loving
sympathy with poor people, his kindly greeting to all who knew him, we shall miss very much...."
He added that "his whole life was spent in the study of Holy Scriptures...."

Francis Newman was his lifelong friend, and the letters which follow will plainly show that
it was a friendship of kindred spirits: the friendship of two who had a great many interests
in common, and were therefore in close touch with each other.

 To Dr. Nicholson from Francis Newman.

"17th Feb., 1843.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I hope you will not bother your little boy with any foreign language too soon. Soak him well
and long in his native English, or he will never come to any good, I fear. If he sees a father
in love with German, he will of himself quite early take to it. The great difficulty (I should
expect) will be to secure that it may not be too early. Of course you see about the Anti-Corn
Law doings? I think I shall before long be as fanatical as anyone about it: I rage the more
inwardly because I have no vent. I am eager to sign a solemn league and covenant about total
and immediate repeal, which I suppose and hope they will get up...."

The next letter in order refers to "Berber," a language bearing some relation to the Arabic,
over which Newman was at work with his dictionary. It also touches on his own ill-health and
enforced idleness. It is dated from Manchester, October, 1843:--

"I have been suffering indisposition which was aggravated in reality by overrating its importance.
My medical adviser said it was organic affection of the heart; in spite of my great incredulity
... I took other advice afterwards in Derby, where I went to see one of my sisters, and am
now assured that it was nothing but 'the great sympathetic' that disordered the heart. I was
nearly three weeks in the country and in idleness, and gained much benefit from it. I spent
much indoors time in learning to use water-colours, and got a nice pony to ride, and was a
great deal in the air, and very early to go to bed; and took no medicines but tonics and a
colocynth pill on occasion. Myself and wife both return much better. I believe I knocked myself
up by excitement of mind over the Berber and working at my dictionary, At Prichard's advice
I have lately written to Bunsen to ask his aid in getting the dictionary published. I think
it may be of use, as adding one more known language in North Africa to those already accessible,
which are, I believe, Arabic, Coptic, Gheez, and Amharic."

In June of the same year he says, in respect of Kitto's Encyclopaedia: "Your Ahasuerus shows
you to me as an invaluable contributor to him: I could not have written that (if I had had
the learning) without an attack on Ezra and Esther about the word!... Mr. Jowett has sent me
(at Bunsen's and Prichard's request) the chief part of the transcript of the Berber MS. in
the possession of the Bible S----. I suppose I must do my best now to get deeper into the language."

In May, 1845, Newman has been greatly interested in translating into Greek, English verses
"to test the possibility of retaining any Greek accent such as the books mark in singing."
He has tried translating "Flow on, thou shining river" in Greek, so that it might be sung to
Moore's own tune. One does not come across in his letters much reference to music, nor does
it seem as if he had any great taste for it--at any rate, not in the same way as had Cardinal
Newman, who had a real passion for it in earlier years.

The later part of the letter has to do with the much-vexed question of the "Maynooth Controversy."

Newman writes from "4, Cavendish Place, 12th May 1845":--

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I venture to enclose two tunes for the Sapphic metre, Greek and Latin, to which my sister,
at my request, has added an accompaniment. Will you be so kind as to get Mrs. Nicholson to
play the piano while you sing it, and tell me what is to be said to it? It seems to me a clear
impossibility, whether emphasis or sharpness of note predominated in the accent. I have translated
'Flow on, thou shining river' to Moore's own tune, so as to retain Greek accent as well as
quantity in exact agreement to the music ... the commonest metres puzzle me most....

"I wonder what you think of the Maynooth Controversy? To me it has been so puzzling a one that
I have been heartily glad that nothing obliged me to express an opinion.

"Some things seem clear to me: (1) That a measure for cutting down the Church of Ireland, as
by Lord Morpeth's Bill, would have been, and would now be, far better in every respect than
this of Sir R. Peel; (2) that the present is a mode of perpetuating the sinecure Church of
Ireland by paying the Romish, and real Church, out of English and Scotch funds. Hence it is
popular with many Irish Protestants, of which Sir R. Peel boasts!" [Francis Newman seems to
forget, in his frequent allusions to "Protestants", that there was a National Church in Ireland,
as in England, long before the word which sprang into being at the Reformation had found its feet.]

"If they (the Government) were pleading that a Romanist people ought to be allowed to support
their own Romish clergy, they could justly claim that we, as a Protestant people, would not
interfere on the ground of our dislike to Romish doctrine. But when they demand to support
Romanism out of common funds, they implicate us in the question, whether (on the whole) that
religion contains more truth or error; and I think they force those who see it in black colours
to urge the No Popery cry. So far, I am disposed to justify the Anti-Maynooth war. Sir R. Inglis
may be a bigot in his view of Romanism ... but I think he is not 'out of order' in intruding
the religious demerit of Romanism into a parliamentary discussion. If this measure had been
thrown out, I fear Ireland would have been awfully embittered. Yet I hope the fierce opposition
will stop any future scheme of keeping the sinecure church untouched and endowing the priests
with imperial money.... Thus I halt between two opinions."

In November, 1843, Newman touches briefly upon the Oxford movement thus:--

"You do not seem to know that the Record has been making a fuss this last month about the Bishop
of Oxford's public declaration that he never requested my brother to suppress Tract 90. All
he did was to suggest that 'the publication of the Tracts be discontinued,' which meant that
there was to be no No. 91. The Bishop indignantly disclaims the idea that my brother had been
disobedient.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am, for a week past, resting from Berber, having written to M. d'Avezac in Paris to ask
whether a report I heard is true, that he is preparing a dictionary of it. I have ordered an
Amharic grammar, too, and want to compare them, but I abhor the Ethiopic type!.... I cannot
get Kitto to tell me whether the sale of the Cyclopaedia is satisfactory."

As regards Irish affairs:--

"I have lately spoken at a meeting of the Friends of Ireland, and have sent to the Guardian
newspaper here, [Footnote: Manchester Guardian.] in reply to their demand that I would specify
some plan, a paper on Fixity of Tenure for the cottiers of Ireland. I feel no doubt that this
must ere long become the great Irish question, of even more interest than the ecclesiastical
one...."

And in March he gives more news of his "Berber":--

"I am again at work at the Berber MS., which I have not touched since the 1st October. The
Royal Asiatic Society have accepted my offer to edit it. At present their pages are occupied
with the history of Darius Hystaspis from the rocks at (I think) Besittoon, near Hemadon--the
most curious document which recent research has brought to light, and, I am told, confirming
in detail the accounts of Herodotus."

The two following letters to Dr. Nicholson deal chiefly with matters connected with John Sterling
(who had recently died) and with Newman's arrangements for adopting one of his children.

Perhaps most people are familiar with Carlyle's biography of Sterling, but it may be as well
to say here that he was a brilliant writer, a Liberal in politics, and interested himself keenly
in General Torrijos and his group of Spanish exiles. When at college, at the age of nineteen,
he came under the influence of Julius Hare, his tutor. When he was twenty-six he again fell
in with Hare at Bonn, and here came to pass one of the mistakes of his life. Chiefly through
Hare's influence he took deacon's orders, and he worked under Hare at Hurstmonceaux for the
best part of a year. Very soon afterwards he began to feel the breach growing wider between
his own convictions and those taught by the Church. He never, consequently, took priest's orders.
Through grievous ill-health his winters were passed at Bordeaux, in Italy, or at Madeira. He
died at Ventnor 18th Sept., 1843.

"While riding to-day I was meditating on the continual strain which the pulling of my horse
made on the left arm, while the right was idle; and it struck me that this might conduce to
the size of the muscles on that side. Also my wife always leans on the left, as being stronger
in her right arm.... The hardest work I am put to is holding an umbrella against a fierce wind;
and in this my right hand certainly beats my left.... I have had no bad nights since I left
Manchester, except two which I attribute to an excitement on meeting my sister, whom I had
not seen for eight years.... I mean to return home next Saturday. Since I left you an important
change of prospect in my domestic economy has occurred. I have accepted the responsible office
of guardian to the eldest son (thirteen years old) of my dear dying friend Sterling, whom I
went to see at Ventnor, Isle of Wight. The lad will come to Manchester next week, and in future
live in our house, and I trust I shall love him as a son. He seems a very affectionate boy.
His mother died about eighteen months ago. I found my poor friend on the whole stronger than
I had expected, yet steadily declining: long since convinced that his case was hopeless (and
indeed expecting his end sooner than those around him), yet thoroughly calm and resigned to
the gracious will of Him Who had so ordained it. Not to mourn over talents so high and a will
so upright thus prematurely to be lost to us were impossible, even did I not know how truly
brotherly in affection is his heart to us. He will leave six orphan children. Yet this calamity
is relieved by the tenderness of his brother to them, and by the existence of adequate supplies
for all reasonable wants.... Tell your little boy that I have to-day been out with a nephew
of mine (Johnny Kennaway) nearly of his age, and he rides a little white pony. It was almost
too spirited for him, and I was once afraid it would run away with him; but I could not do
anything to help him but pull up my own horse short and call to him to do the same....

"Believe me, my dear Nicholson,

"Your affectionate friend,

"Francis W. Newman."

This letter was written from Escot, Ottery St. Mary, Devon, [Footnote: His wife's old home.]
in September, 1844.

In 1841 Ward of Balliol brought out a very strong pamphlet, and accused the Reformation of
many changes in the English Church; as Rev. J. B. Mozley says in his Letters, it was "a kind
of strong interpretation of No. XC, just as Pusey's ... is a mollifying one, proving that No.
XC says nothing but what our divines have said before." As regards "the statute", the Hebdomadal
Board had early in this year "proposed a new statute" for the conferring of B.D. degrees.

"30th Dec., 1844.

"... I suppose you are busy with Ewald's [Footnote: Dr. Nicholson was the pupil of Ewald, and
the first translator of his Hebrew Grammar.] Grammar.... I shall be more at rest whenever circumstances
put me into that direct conflict with current opinion, which I dare not go out of my way to
provoke, and yet feel it to be my natural element. My antagonism to 'things as they are'--politically,
scientifically, and theologically-- grows with my growth; and I believe that every year that
delays change more and more endangers destruction to our social framework."

I cannot forbear quoting here from a letter recently received by me from a distant cousin of
mine, Mr. George Grey Butler. He says: "I remember once at table Mr. Newman saying (when asked
his attitude on various public questions), 'Oh! I am anti-slavery, anti-alcohol, anti-tobacco,
anti- everything!' with a twinkle in his eye which caused an outburst of mirth amongst his
listeners."

Rev. J. B. Mozley goes on to say, "Pusey will not take the test," (or statute) "that he has
declared publicly ... Hussey the Professor, Eden, Baden Powell, and several Liberals, Price
of Rugby, are all strong against it.... Gladstone is very strong, and thinks every exertion
ought to be made against it."

On 7th Oct., 1844, Newman is expecting the arrival of the son of his old friend, John Sterling.
"Edward Sterling will probably come to us to-day; his trunk is here already. I do not think
you know that his father's earthly career is over.... Sterling's will is like himself. He has
so strong a feeling of the wrong and absurdity of laying responsibility on people, and yet
fettering their discretion, that he has left the fullest powers possible both to his brother
as executor to manage his property and the other children, and to me over Edward. He has directed
L300 a year to be paid me for Edward.... He was indeed a noble soul, and few know what a loss
it is; but those few rate it high. As Captain Sterling (his brother) said, he had been accumulating
wisdom all his life, and could he have lived twenty years more to pour it out he would indeed
have left behind him a precious legacy.... Thomas Carlyle wrote a beautiful letter over him.
His little son knows not at all what a father he has lost; and as for me, I want to tell him,
but feel how hard it is."

In 1845 the taxes upon corn had caused great distress in England. But far worse was the trouble
in Ireland; for practically, through the potato famine, owing to the thousands of acres which
were blighted, there were literally thousands dying of starvation. Cheap food was far more
difficult to get at there than in England, and at length at the close of the year Sir Robert
Peel said he would repeal the Corn Laws altogether. In 1846 the Bill with this end in view
passed through the House of Commons and House of Lords and became law. But the consequence
of this measure was in effect the signal for Peel's going out of office, and his place was
taken by Lord John Russell.

To return to Newman's letter.

"You perhaps know that the Liberals at Oxford are likely to side with Ward against the Heads.
I do not see what else they can do; and I devoutly hope that the tangle will be irremovable
except by abolishing subscriptions. Price of Rugby is all in a bristle about it. I much admire
his spirit. Baden Powell protests in toto against the statute."

"6th Nov., 1845.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"Your news about the potatoes unfortunately is no matter of private information, but rings
through our ears, and I am increasingly doubtful whether we are to hope for open ports. I believe
the League is right in saying that Sir Robert's next move will be for an absolutely free trade;
but when that next move is to be must depend in part on his colleagues; and the country must
perhaps suffer much before they come over, or he gains boldness to defy their opposition....

"If you have been reading the New Prospective, I dare say you will guess that the article on
'Church Reform' is mine. I was not sorry to get it printed, even in such a quarter--(though
I know no other periodical that is free enough to dare to print it. The Westminster Review
is not enough in religious circles),--because I want to send it to Churches of various grades,
and get their opinion. I fear I have expressed myself too sanguinely of Dissenting Co-operation.
They seem to say they will support nothing that does not go to length of alienating the whole
Church property to secular uses."

On 16th April, 1846, politics are touched on again.

"16th April, 1846.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I have sent one or two 'Leagues' of late to my brother-in-law in Devonshire, thinking that
they had in them matter of instruction to him.... Does not Peel appear of late to have made
himself as little as of old? Yet I rejoice in his obstructing a mere Whig ministry of the orthodox
kind; and although his course has heaped misery on Ireland, nothing less severe, I imagine,
would brace England up to the stringent remedies which alone can save that country;--nor are
we yet screwed to the point!...

"I have finished the Berber MS. as far as the Arabic had been translated, viz. twenty-eight
folio pages: four more remain, of which I cannot understand either the Berber or the Arabic.
I suppose neither could Mr. Hodgson understand them; for while he professes to have translated
the whole of the Arabic, he has quietly omitted these. I naturally turn myself to your aid.
I have quite ascertained that the Arabic and Berber do correspond....

"I am trying to move my house, i.e. to get into a new shell, further from the smoke. [Footnote:
Newman had not yet left Manchester New College.] Edward Sterling's little brother, aged five
and a half, is now with us; and especially for his sake I desire to have pure air.... I am
sorry to say she" (Newman's wife) "is becoming more and more afflicted with rheumatism. I am
about to send her to Malvern, where one of her sisters now is, to try a hydropathist physician
there--a regularly educated man. As she must take little Johnny S. and her own maid, and another
to help in bathings, and look after the child, it is quite a nomad eruption and waggon-load
of Scythians.

"My sister's child, a boy of Johnny S.'s age, fell into the fire six or seven weeks ago, and
was almost burnt to death. The poor little fellow endured agonies, but is at last nearly recovered....
It seems a wonderful recovery."

The next letter notifies his election as Latin Professor in University College.

"London. 6th July, 1846.

"My dear Nicholson,

"A few words just to say that on Saturday I was elected Latin Professor in L. U. C., and to
thank you once more for your valuable aid. Hoping Mrs. N. continues well, and with kind regards
to her, and the children,

"I am, ever yours affectionately,

"Francis W. Newman."

CHAPTER VIII

LETTERS TO DR. NICHOLSON FROM PROFESSOR NEWMAN DURING THE FOLLOWING YEARS: 1850 TO 1859

The first of special interest in this series of letters is dated March, 1850, and concerns
Newman's Latin studies and also Indian and China affairs.

"Sir Charles Trevelyan is doing his best to introduce the English alphabet into Indian languages.
He believes it, with me, to be of political, educational, and religious importance; but he
seems to be opposed by all the English scholars. Edwin Norris says that even Sanscrit imported
its alphabet from a foreign tongue. The number of primitive alphabets is so few, the diversity
of languages so great, that nearly all tongues must have adopted foreign alphabets. I cannot
therefore understand the almost a priori objections raised by the learned.... Do you attend
to Indian affairs? The disbanding of our Native Indian armies, the prospect of a sure surplus
in the Indian treasury, with the necessity of a conciliatory policy to all the Indian princes
as soon as we are disarmed, seem to me as light pouring in through a dark cloud. But I am not
easy (far from it) until we get out of this Chinese scrape. I have for years maintained that
the more we fight against China the more we shall teach them the art of war; and unless we
tear the empire in pieces by aiding insurrections, they must beat us at last, and become masters
in the Indian seas. We cannot contend against three hundred and eighty millions of ingenious,
industrious, homogeneous men under a single monarch with compact country, splendid rivers and
harbours, unsurpassed soil and climate--if once we drive them to learn the art of war from
America, as Peter the Great learnt it from Europe. But I seem to be insanus inter sobrios,
for nobody accepts this thought from me.

"Hearty regards to you all.

"Ever yours,

"F. W. Newman."

It will be remembered that in 1851, though not until December, Louis Napoleon, nephew of Napoleon
Bonaparte, had been successful in his aim of becoming President of the French Republic. But
he had practically led his army through a sea of blood to reach this autocratic position. Later,
in 1852, he made the French people designate him "Emperor of the French" under the title of
Napoleon III.

Lord Russell had, with his ministers, brought their time of office to an end; and Lord Derby
came in as Prime Minister at the head of a Conservative Party. He only remained in office a
short time, however, and his successor was Lord Aberdeen, and Mr. Gladstone was Chancellor
of the Exchequer.

In the letter which follows, Newman vindicates the honour of Kossuth, whose friend and helper
he was when Kossuth came to England for funds to set going the new Hungarian revolution against
Austria. With the views of Charles Dickens, of course, Newman had not the slightest sympathy.

"7 P.V.E., "19th Dec., 1851.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I never see Dickens' Household Narrative, and therefore cannot answer; but I do not believe
there is any 'alternative side' against Kossuth's character. (Dickens is, in my judgment, a
foolish man; he writes on centralization and despotism like an Austrian: however, so does Carlyle
often.) But all that can be said against Kossuth is, that up to the age of twenty-two or twenty-three
he was a thoughtless young man, who liked hunting and gambling. Since that age he is irreproachable,
the proof of which is, that the Austrian Times has not a word to say against him. Their libel
about the Orphan Fund was at once refuted by Count Ladislaus Vay, but they would not insert
Count Vay's letter, or even acknowledge it. I think, indeed, the Continental Republicans may
be proud of their leaders.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Lord Palmerston seems to me to be entangled in routine and old creeds, so that he does not
do all the justice he might to his better wishes; but I also think he loves place better than
to carry out those wishes....

"Ever yours heartily,

"F. W. Newman."

The letter in January, 1853, which is next in order, is largely concerned with Mazzini. As
is well known, Mazzini was an Italian patriot and Republican, born in the same year as was
Newman. When he was only sixteen, seeing the refugees who fled from the unfortunate rising
in Piedmont, he determined then and there to rescue his country when he should be old enough
to do so. He made "the first great sacrifice of his life" in giving up the study of literature
(which he loved) for direct political action. He joined the Carbonari in 1829, though he was
not in sympathy with their aims or organization.

In 1830 he was imprisoned by the Sardinian police. There, in his prison cell, he thought out
his plan of action for his country, and on being released he went and organized the "Young
Italy Association." The object of it was to teach the mass of the people first to know their
rights, and then to obtain them. The end of all his efforts for his people as regarded himself
was this:--

In 1832 he was expelled from the country, but he managed to remain hidden at Marseilles; and
from that time for twenty years he led "a life of voluntary imprisonment within the four walls
of a little room." In 1844 Mazzini accused the English Government of having opened his letters
and told their contents to the authorities of Italy. This set the whole of England against
him, but Carlyle defended him in great measure, and testified to the worthiness of his noble
struggle for his country's freedom. Later, in 1848, when the Lombard revolt broke out, he took
the part of the revolutionaries with vigour.

In 1852 he planned the revolt at Mantua, and in 1853 at Milan. Others were set going later.
He had started in London (with Kossuth) the European Association, and issued in September,
1855, its "republican manifesto." He strongly condemned the agreement made in 1859 between
Napoleon III and Piedmont, because he foresaw its inevitable consequences. Mazzini, Garibaldi,
and Cavour were a trio who largely influenced their country's destiny. Garibaldi has been called
the knight-errant; Mazzini, the prophet of Italian unity; and Cavour was the hub which formed
the centre of the wheel of Italy's fortunes.

"7 P.V.E. "Friday night, 28th Jan., 1853.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"As regards Mazzini, I am both glad and sorry. I cannot pretend to know the truth, and fear
to say what may unjustly disparage him; but he has fallen a little in my secret judgment. I
am told (and I cannot test the assertion) that Mazzini wrote to Italy to implore his countrymen
to be patient, and not to make any attempts at resistance, even though the best among them
were slaughtered; and added: But if you will and must make your attempt now, then by all means
I shall come--not to conquer with you; for of that I have no hope--but to die with you. Now
I cannot learn whether this was simultaneously with his writing to tell us that he was in high
hopes of success, and only wanted L3000 to turn probability into something like certainty.
If it was simultaneous, he is not the less patriot; but he thinks 'the point of honour' requires
he should tell a lie to his English friends in order to get the wherewith to die a martyr's
death; and it makes it very hard to trust his simple truth in future. But if (as one friend
of his thinks) Mazzini's own opinion has changed, it lowers one's notion of his discernment.
In fact, it is scarcely credible to me. There are those, I find, who have lately helped him
to money, expressly thinking it was a going to martyrdom, but believing he was bent on it,
and that possibly he may now do more good to Italy by his death than ever he can do by his
life. I cannot take this view. I believe the tyrants would have the good sense to destroy him
so secretly that no moral effect should follow from his death; and if he utterly disapproved
of an outbreak, I do not understand the 'honour' which should make him go to useless destruction
when his life may be so valuable. It is not the same thing to an exile as to a soldier in a
rank, for the exile necessarily comes too late. However, I do not know whether at this instant
Mazzini may be disguised in Italy: he is so retired and so stealthy. I expect he will (be)
betrayed sooner or later, if he plays so bold a game. Nevertheless I am glad that (for whatever
reason) the Italians are still quiet. Louis Napoleon will certainly sooner or later get embroiled;
and unless there were new facts unknown to me ... I earnestly hope they will wait. The Germans
are a slow people; but they will move in time. Every German I see believes this.... 'We without
them cannot be made perfect,' seems to me the clue to European oppressions. While stupid barbarism
exists in masses, it will be the tool of tyranny against the more educated and refined and
wealthy....

"Ever yours, "F. W. Newman."

In November, 1855, he discusses public affairs, with relation to Louis Napoleon, with Dr. Nicholson:--

"....I should indeed like to have the talk on public affairs which you suggested; but things
have moved on since then! Friends of mine dread that the difficulties of French finance will
precipitate Louis N. into a base peace. I argue,--it will then be into one so base that the
French will not endure it. For the Russians know the French difficulties; and if proposals
of peace come first from France, or if they see French action become slacker, they will yield
nothing, and make sure of a peace which saves all their territory and reserves all their free
action.... Only yesterday came the news of Omar Pasha's 5th November victory. Even if it be
exaggerated, still the repulse at Kars and this new defeat make it impossible for Russia to
make peace now without a humiliation such as L. N. cannot attempt to remove. It may so be that
L. N. will be blown up by his finance and by popular discontent; it may also be that his difficulties
will lead him to make popular concessions to the spirit of freedom, as is usual when great
sacrifices are demanded of a nation; or it may be that he will get through with a struggle,
putting French finance on a healthier footing than has ever been yet. But I think, if he stands,
he must carry on the war; and the more he feels his dangers, the more vehemently will he resolve
to stick at nothing necessary for success, and will bid high to get Sweden to join us, which
means to despoil Russia of Finland and Poland.

"And if he is overthrown all Italy will rise, and after it Hungary, and after it Germany and
Poland....

"It grieves me much that Kossuth has united his name with Ledru Rollin's; and altogether I
think Kossuth is so soured by the misconduct of the Western Cabinets as to lose his soundness
of judgment and fairness of reasoning.... Through 1854 his tone became more demagogic, less
dignified, more defiant to authorities. He is now contemptuous to the British nation also,
though I think it has throughout displayed precisely the sound instinct which he so often ascribes
to nations, and from which he says a statesman must catch his inspiration. Our nation did not
know what he knew--that Austria had given just ground of war to Turkey--that Turkey was ready
in October, 1853, to ally with Hungary against Austria; nor could it know what were the military
facilities for overthrowing Austria, nor whether the stubborn resistance of Louis Napoleon
was what forced Aberdeen into his policy. But the nation since the Russian invasion of Hungary
has practically felt how dangerous to all foreign liberty is the Russian power, and the absolute
necessity of repressing and curtailing it; and this determination of the people has made the
war a reality, has given power to that side of the Cabinet which alone was willing to go forward,
has displayed itself equally in our lowest distress and our chief triumph, which Kossuth ought
to honour....

"I doubt whether his union with Ledru Rollin is approved by any eminent Hungarian in England.

"While I regret all this, I yet expect Kossuth to be great again whenever action in Hungary
recommences; but he cannot bear inaction well; and, alas! I make no doubt his private resources
cannot bear delays. I almost begin to fear that he covets to be driven publicly to America
by our Government, as less ignominious than being starved into the same step. I cannot understand
... how he fails to see that if we weaken Russia we strengthen the chances of liberty, though
Aberdeen would not allow his particular policy in 1853-4. We are doing so very much more than
he asked of the Americans in 1852 that the tone he assumes is wonderful. And then to scoff
as he does, as though we had done nothing in destroying the Russian Black Sea Fleet and overthrowing
the whole prestige of their military superiority. To have been beaten by the Turks is still
more humiliating.... I wonder whether you have any alarm about America. I should have some
alarm if Nicaragua and the Mosquito land were the topic of quarrel; for I think the Americans
would really fight us as a single nation to hinder us establishing ourselves on American soil
south of them. They sufficiently dislike our northern position....

"Very cordially yours,

"F. W. Newman."

       *       *       *       *       *

We now pass to Newman's letters in the year 1856; and the first of this series speaks of the
"Harry" who is mentioned elsewhere in this volume, as having been Professor Alleyne Nicholson,
of Aberdeen. He was coming to stay with Professor Newman during term time:--

"7 P.V.E. R.P., "28th Oct., 1856.

"The grammar used in University College School is Key's Grammar.... Hitherto, no particular
Greek Grammar has been used in the school, but Greek has been taught through Robson's Constructive
Greek Exercises, which, I presume, Harry ought at once to work at.... A Greek Grammar by Mr.
Greenwood is expected to be ready by Christmas, and is to be brought into the school. It will
be new to all; and Harry will be on a par with the rest about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Robson's Constructive Latin Exercises ... are used in the school.... Give him" (Harry) "my
very kind regards, and say that his little bedroom here looks to me desolate until he comes;
but I cannot flatter him that I have anything to fill up the emptiness of heart he will feel
when he loses not only papa and mamma, but also his faithful coadjutor in study-- Annie! Seriously,
you will have to consider about his evening amusements, for it will not do to be studying morning
and night. What think you of giving a well defined time to drawing every evening? He has so
much taste for drawing insects that he cannot fail in outline. We have a little room which
we call 'the boy's room,' where he can put any of his Natural History collections which you
think it well he should try, but we have no butterflies to catch,--few even in summer."

       *       *       *       *       *

At the end of July, Newman went to stay with Dr. Nicholson and his family at Penrith, and there
are one or two notes concerning his journey tither. The next letter is dated 24th Aug., 1856.
He wrote therefore when the Crimean War was still going forward. That war which, amongst mistaken
policies, blundering Government tactics, and aimless ambitions, holds a foremost place. It
was not till the end of the year 1855 that it came to an end. After the attack on Sebastopol,
the French--whose army had suffered quite as much from the terrible winter and from disease,
etc., as our own--succeeded in taking the Malakoff Tower. This made it impossible for the Russians
to defend Sebastopol any longer, and in March, 1856, peace was proclaimed. Then followed Russian
promises, which were made as easily as they were broken.

"7 Park Village, East. "24th August, 1856.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"Events have proved that Russia, too, painfully knew her own weakness. Probably he" (Louis
Napoleon) "already in December knew that she knew it, and the war was far too unpopular with
the French to be continued except on a different policy, with new necessities and new prizes
to be won. Our policy from March, 1853, to March, 1855, was so hollow and so silly, that no
wisdom could afterwards bring things right, or make the results of the war worthy of the cost;
but the comparative result in March, 1856, is so vast a gain over what nine out of ten of our
statesmen (so called) were projecting to accept in March, 1855, that I cannot open my lips
against the peace in itself. I could not in any case wish the war continued, except on new
principles for worthier objects. However, Russia has really had a terrible lesson, and a great
humiliation. That she could not take Silistria or Kars against Turkish troops, except by the
accident of famine, will never be forgotten by German armies or statesmen.... The native Russian
peasants and low persons do not yet know that the Czar was beaten; they suppose him to have
conquered with immense cost; but the nobility knew the truth, and it will leak through to the
lowest people, I expect, in the course of a few years. I think Europe has a respite of a quarter
of a century from the incubus of Russia; and if in that interval the Hapsburgs are overthrown,
all will yet come right. I fear we are still forced again (in spite of Mazzini and Kossuth)
to regard the French as having the initiative of revolutions. I have resolved to give up all
extra and needless effort of the brain, until I can really get rid of certain morbid symptoms,
quite chronic, which distress me, so that my projected Latin analysis lies in embryo.

"... I have had satisfactory approval of my Iliad from my brother, Dr. Newman, a fastidious
critic and practical poet, as also from other private quarters which I count much on; but reviews
as yet do not notice me.... I have no high expectation of the very existence of the book becoming
known, except slowly to many who might perhaps be glad of it if they knew it....

"Ever your faithful friend,

"F. W. Newman."

In October of the same year he thus speaks of the School of University College:--

"... The School of U.C. is remarkably full of pupils this season. My junior class has unusually
old pupils; I do not yet know their quality. One (a Mr. Sassoon, a Jew?) [Footnote: Probably
this was the father of the present Sir Edward Sassoon, second Baronet.] I mistook for a German,
but he told me he is an Arab of Hindoo birth, and talks a little Arab and Hindostanee, but
knows more of English than of any other language. His English is good, though the pronunciation
is a little foreign."

In another letter, written this same month, he speaks of Mazzini as knowing that the "liberties
of Italy cannot be safe without revolution either in France or Austria." That he feels it must
come sooner or later, so that it would be better for Italy to act and suffer rather than to
become "stupefied." Newman declares that the Governments know, and is the reason why they "hate
Mazzini, since ... success in Italy will cause explosions elsewhere."

Newman goes on to say: "For myself I look at it thus. The deliverance of Italy cannot come
by Governments (unless these are first revolutionized); it can only come by insurrection. No
one from without can ever know or judge what is the time for hopeful insurrection: it must
be done from within, and generally without plan. My sole question is, Is the cause legitimate?
I find that it is. I leave Italians to judge of the time. Meanwhile every year I would give
of my superfluity to the aid of patriotic effort.... To fail ten times may be necessary for
success in the eleventh. If they were losing heart and becoming denationalized, the case would
be bad; but it is the contrary. The fusion with Austria is impossible. The more they bleed
the more they are united, and the more resolved.... My wife is cheered to learn that Harry
will go to Mr. Bruce's on Sunday. A black spot had rested on her heart, I find, from fearing
that he would go nowhere to church. I am sending you a corrected copy of my translation of
the first chorus in Antigone, since you honour it by putting it into your Sophocles....

"Ever your affectionate friend,

"F. W. Newman. "To Dr. J. Nicholson, etc."

Another mention of the translation I also insert here. He had been able to give far more time
to it than if he had been in London, for he had in September been spending some time at Ventnor.
"A youth introduced to me by Mrs. Pulszky is zealous in the Greek tragedians, and I have been
helping him to a little Sophocles which put me up to translating the 1st Chorus after I had
been reading it with him...."

Here is the translation to which allusion is made:--

  "SOPHOCLES, ANTIGONE"

  1ST CHORAL SONG

  1st Strophe

  "O ray of the Sun, the fairest
  That over the rills of Dirke
  To Thebe the seven-gated
  Wast ever of yore unveil'd
  The eyelid of heaven gilding;
  At length thy splendour on us was shed,
  Urging to hasty reverse of rein
  The Argive warrior white of shield
  And laden in panoply all complete,
  Who sped in van of the routed.
  Stirr'd from afar against our land
  By Polyneikes' doubtful strife,
  He like an eagle soaring came,
  Screen'd by a wing of snow unstain'd,
  With many a stout accoutrement
    And horse-hair crested helmets.

  1st Antistrophe

  "At mouth of the portals seven
  Above our abodes he hover'd
  With lances that yawn'd for carnage;
  But vanish'd, afore his chaps
  With slaughter of Thebes were glutted;
  Afore the flicker of pitchy flame
  Might to the crown of turrets climb.
  So fierce the rattle of war around
  Was pour'd on his rear by the serpent-foe
  Hard match'd in deadly encounter.
  For Jove the over-vaunting tongue
  Supremely hates. Their full fed stream
  Of gold, of clatter, and of pride
  He saw, and smote with brandish'd flame
  Him, who at summit of his goal
  Would raise the peal of Conquest.

  2nd Strophe.

    "Foil'd in his frantic rush,
    Though still with blasts of hate against us raving,
    Down dropt he, torch and all,
  And heavy struck the Earth, who upward spurn'd him.
    Such auspice of the war
  To us was fair; and elsewhere new successes
    Befel, whereon the right
    Great Ares routing wheel'd the chariot-battle.

  For, posted at the seven gates,
  Equals to equals, seven chiefs
  To trophy-bearing Jupiter
  Payments of solid brass bequeath'd.
  Save that the gloomy-hearted twain,
  Sprung from one mother and one sire,
  Planted with adverse dint the spear
  And earn'd a fate in common.

  2nd Antistrophe

  "But now, since Victory
  Mighty of name at length is come, delighted
    In car-borne Thebe's joy;
  Henceforth forget we battle's past annoyance.
  But through the livelong night
  Let us in sacred band approach the temples,
    And Bacchus to the dance--
  The god who shakes the soil of Thebes--be leader.

  "But hither Creon, lo! proceeds,
  Son of Menoekeus, newly rais'd
  The sceptre of this land to sway.
  Now at new tokens of the gods,
   Methinks, some sage device he plies.
  Therefore to special parliament
  Hath he by general summons fetch'd
  This meeting of the elders."

The next letter largely concerns Persia. And it is necessary to remember that, in the early
part of the nineteenth century, she began, at the suggestion of France, a most unfortunate
war (as regards herself) with Russia.

In 1826 there was another war, and this cost Persia all the rest of her possessions in Armenia.
The taxation of the people, which the rulers enforced to enable them to pay the expenses of
the war, caused the former to rise in insurrection in 1829. The death of the Crown Prince in
1833 seemed the crowning blow to the fortunes of Persia, for he had been the only man who had
seriously tried to raise his country from the depths to which she had fallen.

In 1848 the son of the Shah, who had, through the assistance of Britain and Russia, obtained
the throne, came into office, and he resolved to put forward claims to Afghanistan and Beluchistan.
When the ruler of Herat agreed that the Shah had claims, the English Government made the Shah
sign an agreement in 1853 that he would give up pressing his claims as regarded Herat. But
in 1856 the Persians retook this city, because they declared that the Ameer of Kabul was planning
an advance on Herat. Thereupon a British army, commanded by General Outram and Havelock, was
sent to Persia, and defeat after defeat for the Persians followed their arrival, and in July,
1857, they were compelled to give up Herat. Since then Persia has not ventured to lay her hand
on the "key to India."

"7 P.V.E., London, "19th Dec., 1856.

"Dr. Barth, the African traveller, has been re-seducing (me) into the Lingua Amazighana, which
I had forsworn. I am not sure that something will not come of it--to me at least. I have already
built a castle in the air, that sometime hereafter I shall become 'Professor of Libyan' to U.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How dreadful is it that we should be able to get into a war with Persia, proclaimed at Bombay
on November 1st, and nobody here knows why it is or what it seeks after; and the country's
honour is committed while Parliament is not even sitting. And for this we throw up Italy and
... Switzerland? Have you seen Cobden's recent letters on Maritime War? I rejoice much in them,
and think adversity has improved his tone. With hearty regards to Mrs. N. and all,

"I am, ever yours,

"F. W. N."

The letters at which we have now arrived are those written during 1857. The first is dated
March, and I quote some passages from it to show the Professor's own views as regards evening
home preparation for boys who are working at school during the day, because it seems to me
that his opinion in this matter should carry weight:--

"I much dislike a boy having both his work at school and then evening work at home, when he
is getting sleepy and ought to have relaxation. It is the nuisance of day schools, and quite
hurtful to study, if there is nobody at home to answer questions. Besides, Harry" (this is
Harry Nicholson, mentioned two or three times in these letters as attending University College
School) "is so studious of himself that it is very much to be desired that he should have time
for voluntary work. I regard this as having been very beneficial to me at school, where I never
had work enough set me to fill up half my time."

The letter which follows is dated April, and in it we find that "Harry" had just returned home,
and that his report had testified to his diligence and progress. At the end of the letter comes
this little touch as to some of the schoolboy belongings which had been left behind in Professor
Newman's house. "Harry has left divers snail-shells fastened on pasteboard. Perhaps he did
not know how to carry them safely."

On 6th May mention of the owner of the snail-shells recurs again:--

"Mrs. Newman was rather disappointed at the unceremoniousness of my parting with Harry. It
seems like a dream his vanishing. I suppose she is like Hecuba, grieved that she could not
make the funeral of Hector. (I did not even kiss Harry by proxy for her!) Most gladly does
she give him up to Mrs. Nicholson; and yet, I fancy, she wanted a funeral ceremony on losing him."

Throughout these letters belonging to the year 1857, there is no special mention of the Indian
Mutiny. Yet it is impossible to doubt that it occupied a great place in Newman's thoughts.
No one who has written on India and our relations with her as he has done, could have failed
to have written his own strong views on the lamentable mismanagement which led to the Mutiny.
But most probably the letters concerning it were either not kept by Dr. Nicholson, or else
Newman asked for them back, as in so many cases he was accustomed to do with regard to his
own letters towards the close of his life. He had a theory that letters should not be kept,
and many people have told me that he asked for his letters back in order to destroy them. Happily,
however, this is not the theory which everyone holds. Indeed, to many of us, the Past lies
so near the written word, that almost it re-awakens between the folds of a letter; indeed,
in many instances, the Past and Present only meet across it. In this sense it is the only thing
that holds up the picture of the past before our tired eyes. Litera scripta manet is a living
truth. The next letter from Newman to Nicholson was written on 20th June, 1857. On 8th June
of this year died Douglas Jerrold, dramatist, satirist, and author. Mr. Walter Jerrold tells
us that, in 1852, he had accepted the editorship of Lloyd's Weekly Newspaper. It was said of
this that he "found it in the street and annexed it to literature."

His fortune as a writer began when he was only sixteen. His capacity for work and his perseverance
in working were enormous. In 1825 he wrote great numbers of plays and farces; but beside all
these, he contributed, as is well known, to Punch (at its first commencement in 1841), as well
as to hosts of magazines and political tracts, etc. Newman alludes to Jerrold being in receipt
of L2000 a year from Lloyd's Weekly News.

I pass over the discussion as regards the Newmans' proposed visit to the Lakes, and also his
expressed delight in a book, many copies of which he had just given away--Intuitive Morals
and Religious Duty.

"In truth, dear friend, I get happier and happier, and only am pent up and mourn to feel how
I live for self alone. I sometimes think with a sort of envy how your knowledge of medicine
and tender heart for young children puts you into near and kind contact with the poor. However,
we have each his own talent, if only one can find the mode of wisely disposing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am sorry to see that Douglas Jerrold has not left sixpence to his family, though he was
in receipt of L2000 a year (they say!) from Lloyd's Weekly News."

In November another letter alludes to his Latin translations. He says he has been gradually
inclining to the belief that Terence, Virgil, and Horace had "damaged" the Latin language in
very much the same way as Pope did the English, as regards arbitrary style and method of writing
cadences.

It is universally conceded that Horace was not a great thinker. As one of our modern English
critics has said: "His philosophy is that of the market-place rather than of the schools; he
does not move among high ideals or subtle emotions.... He carried on and perfected the native
Roman growth, satire, so as to make Roman life from day to day, in city and country, live anew
under his pen.... Before Horace, Latin lyric poetry is represented almost wholly by the brilliant
but technically immature poems of Catullus; after him it ceases to exist."

As regards Pope, the critics of the end of the eighteenth century considered his style eminently
artificial and forced. But to-day, according to Father Gasquet, we cannot but recognize his
services to English poetry as invaluable. "He was virtually the inventor and artificer who
added a new instrument of music to its majestic orchestra, a new weapon of expression to its
noble armoury.... But one must admit that to the taste of the present age there occurs a certain
coldness and artificiality in his portrayals alike of the face of nature and of the passions
of man. He appeals rather to the brain than to the heart. Ideas and not emotions are his province....
To the metric presentment of ideas he imparts a charm of musical utterance unachieved before
his time."

"30th Nov., 1857.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have of late been urged by a particular circumstance to make various trials of translation
into Latin (lyrical, etc.) verse--an exercise I always used to dislike, and have never much
practised. I now find my dislike was largely caused by the unsuitable and over-stiff metres
which used to be imposed on me when I was under orders.... In English and Greek versification
I have long been aware of the essential importance of this; but I have looked on Latin as too
inflexible a tongue to be worth the labour, since nearly all the translations I have seen,
pall on me as mere flat imitations of the ancients instead of having a smack of the original.
I have been inclining to the belief that Terence, Virgil, and Horace have done damage to the
Latin language, or at least to our taste; just as Pope was the ruin of English poetry so long
as he was allowed to dictate the style and cadences. In Plautus, Lucretius, and Catullus the
language has a flexibility and the metres a freedom which (as I think) academicians and schoolmasters
have not duly appreciated, and which ought to impart to us (when we do do anything so absurd
as to write foreign verses) a freedom at which we have not generally aimed. As to metre, I
think it really a folly to insist on Horace's restrictions, which are entirely his own, being
neither found in the Greek, which he copied, nor in Catullus; and which made the problem of
translation so much harder (and he did not translate), that one has to sacrifice too much.
I think we ought to construct our metres by selection from the Greek, just as Catullus or Horace
did, not imitate them slavishly. I send you one specimen of my translation, to ask whether
so many as seven lines together the same is too monotonous. If there were only four or five
it would be as one of Catullus's. I dare say you have the original....

"With truest regards to you all, "Your cordial friend,

"F. W. Newman."

Pulszky, the friend of Kossuth and also of Francis Newman, was a Hungarian author, politician,
and patriot. In 1848 he was serving under Esterhazy in some Government post; but when he was
suspected of revolutionizing in his native country, he took refuge in England. Pulszky went
with Kossuth later to America. In 1852 he was condemned to death by the Austrian Government,
but his fourteen years spent in Italy seem to have influenced the Ministers to pardon him in
1867. While in England (I do not know if he suffered from it elsewhere) he became a martyr
to tic douleureux, that most trying form of facial neuralgia which attacks in such paroxysms
of severe pain--attacks which seem brought on by the most trivial reasons, such as a knock
at the door or by a sudden shake to the chair on which the patient is sitting, and which, as
a rule, give no warning of their approach.

"My dear Nicholson,

"You remember that you kindly furnished me with your prescription for tic douleureux to give
to my friend Pulszky. He told me a few days back that he sent it (I think a year ago) to the
poor girl at Ventnor who was a horrible sufferer from it, and heard no more of it until this
autumn when he was at Ventnor again. He was delighted to find she had been immediately cured
by it, had had no returns, was made competent for work, and is in a servant's place. On my
naming this, I have two urgent applications for the prescriptions. If you will a second time
take the trouble to copy out the prescription I will keep it myself, and give copies to my
friends without further coming upon you.... I have ventured to assert that the Nicholson who
is so talked of as promoting the ballot in Australia is not your brother Mark.

"Do you know, when I saw in the Illustrated London News the face of the late lamented Brigadier
Nicholson of the Punjaub, I thought it very like you. Is he possibly a distant relative?

"Ever yours heartily,

"F. W. Newman, "7 P.V.E." "20th December, 1857.

This remark of Newman's that he saw a strong likeness in "the face of the late lamented Brigadier
Nicholson of the Punjaub" to his friend Dr. Nicholson is one of those arresting suggestions
which seem to strike sudden light out of the flints of ancestry which whiten the road of life
along which we have come.

That there is a distinct likeness in the two faces no one who had seen the portraits in Captain
Lionel Trotter's Life of John Nicholson, and then looked at that of Dr. John Nicholson in this
book, could have had a doubt. But, as it seems to me, there is even more ground for the likelihood
of Newman's suggestion, if one tries to trace the lineage and land of the families of Nicholson
in years gone by. I quote the following from Captain Trotter's Life of John Nicholson:--

"In the days of our Tudor sovereigns the family of which John Nicholson was to be the bright
particular star had made their home in the border county of Cumberland." He goes on to say
that the first to come over to Ireland was Rev. William Nicholson (in 1589), and he married
the Lady Elizabeth Percy. Captain Trotter says there is a tradition that his two brothers went
over to Ireland with William Nicholson. One settled in Derry, the other in Dublin. During McGuire's
rebellion in 1641, his son's wife and her baby boy "were the only two in Cran-na-gael" [now
known as Cranagill] "who escaped the common massacre by hiding behind some brushwood. In their
wanderings thence they fell in with a party of loyalist soldiers, who escorted them safely
to Dromore, whence they made their way across sea to the widow's former home at Whitehaven...."
What became of this Mrs. Nicholson does not appear. "Her son William, during his sojourn in
Cumberland, had become a Quaker." This was very probably due to his having been influenced
by his intercourse with George Fox. Later on the former went back to Cranagill. There were
three sons born to this William Nicholson, and Captain Trotter tells us that it was from the
eldest (also a "William") that the famous John Nicholson was descended.

Now, it seems to me that it is not at all unlikely that there may have been some connection
(as Francis Newman suggested) between the branch of the Nicholson family to which John Nicholson,
of Mutiny fame, was related, who made their home in the "border county of Cumberland," and
that to which Dr. John Nicholson, the lifelong friend of Francis Newman, belonged. The latter
also belonged to a north country family who, I believe, settled on the borders of England and
Scotland. Dr. Nicholson himself lived for a great number of years at Penrith, in Cumberland.
So that, all things considered, perhaps Newman's conjecture, after he had realized how strong
a resemblance there was in his friend's face to that of the hero of Delhi, was correct.

The next letters belong to the year 1858. In August, 1858, Newman was again devoting much time
to Latin versification:--

"My chief time this summer has been employed in a new furor--Latin versification. I find that
by choosing and adapting metres from the Greek fountain and not sticking to Horace, or even
to Catullus, the language admits of translation from English closer than I at all conceived.
I think I have done 1500 lines in all. I only translate short pieces and pleasing ones. I have
been led to it by a practical object. I used to hate Latin versification, and indeed the extreme
poverty and ambiguity of the language is laid bare shockingly by the process. Perhaps not really
worse than in prose translation, but every metre (or almost every) deprives you at once of
a sensible fraction of the already scanty vocabulary. One learns also how essentially clumsy
and prosaic the language is in its vocabulary, though so compact in its structure.

"The Atlantic Telegraph, no doubt, already excites wild and impatient hopes in our Australians,
of which you will hear an echo. It is indeed a critical event, as determining an immense extension
of the telegraphic system....

"Ever yours heartily,

"F. W. Newman."

It will be remembered that the Crimean War broke up the Coalition Ministry which Lord Aberdeen
had formed. This was due to the fact that the motion for enquiry into the state of our soldiers
before Sebastopol was carried by a great majority against the Government. Lord Aberdeen resigned
when this happened, and Lord Palmerston came into office, with Mr. Gladstone as Chancellor
of the Exchequer. Then, when Palmerston acceded to the demand that a committee of enquiry should
be appointed, Gladstone, who had opposed it before, thought he ought not to remain in the Cabinet
which had now agreed to have the enquiry made. So he gave up office, but still helped the Government
generally until after Orsini's attempt in 1858, upon Napoleon III's life. Perhaps it is necessary
to recall here that Gladstone had taken up the cause of the prisoners--especially political
prisoners-- in the prisons of Naples in 1851. He spoke strongly on the terrible cruelties which
were perpetrated there. In this effort to help forward an enquiry Gladstone threw himself most
heartily.

       *       *        *       *       *

"I send you to-day a Latin Grammar which I have found on my shelves. By the binder's ticket
'Penrith' I infer it to be Harry's. I hope I may congratulate him.... I never met Gladstone.
He was a hero of mine for about a year. I hoped great things of him. After the letters on Naples
and his Chancellorship of the Exchequer, I thought he had worked clear of the errors of his
youth and was 'the coming man.' But in the Russian war his intense party spirit and endless
mistakes have lowered his ... intellectual discernments.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am, ever yours heartily,

"F. W. Newman."

In December of this year Newman writes word that he has been working hard at Arabic for some
time, because he has undertaken to teach a friend modern Arabic. He is again staying at Hastings,
where he had been so constantly.

"20 White Rock Place, Hastings, "30th Dec., 1858.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am strangely thrown anew into sympathy with your studies. I have been working really hard
at Arabic for some time--and why, do you think? Because I had the temerity to undertake (for
philological reasons) to teach a friend modern Arabic. I could not have been so rash or so
foolish as to undertake to teach ancient Arabic; yet I am almost driven on learning the ancient
by the number of questions which have kept arising.... I have been looking up all my old MSS.,
and am surprised at the extent of my former attainments, very much indeed of which I had forgotten.
But words come back to me with a pleasant rapidity, and I am delighted to find how much I have
exaggerated to myself the gap between old and new Arabic."

With this letter those belonging to the year 1858 come to an end.

With 1859 begin Newman's criticisms on the policy and unscrupulous methods of Louis Napoleon.

The latter had made himself absolute ruler of France in 1851. Later on he annexed Savoy and
Nice. In his campaign in Lombardy against Austria he was assisted by Great Britain. In May,
when this letter following was written, Napoleon's Manifesto had just been published in the
London papers of 4th May:--

"10 Circus Road, S. John's Wood, "5th May, 1859.

       *        *        *        *        *

"I dare say you read Louis Napoleon's Manifesto in yesterday's papers. I wonder what you think
of it. I find myself at variance with most of my friends, and with nearly all the newspapers
that I see; but the Morning Chronicle and the Daily News, of which I have only seen one article
for a long time back, appeared to be maintaining what I hold. That we ought to be strictly
neutral (not armed and threatening neutrals) seems to be an axiom; but at the same time I look
at the crisis with much hope and little or no fear. To declaim against L. N.'s treachery is
only a way of playing into the wrong hands, i.e. supporting Austria. He has pledged himself
to expel her from Italy and not to seek dominion in Italy for France. If he fails he shatters
his own power in Paris: so much the better, I suppose. If he succeeds, Italy is a certain gainer,
and Europe through Italy. I say a certain gainer, because the existing oppression (testified
by Gladstone and Clarendon) rests upon the aid of Austria, and is far worse than war, and worse
than a transitory dictatorship of France; and the mischief of Austria has been that her power
has been confirmed by European diplomacy; but if France proves treacherous, it will be against
the protest of Europe, and her rule cannot be permanent. Besides, L. N. must almost of necessity
give some aggrandizement to Sardinia. Lombardy, Tuscany, and Parma seem inevitably to rush
into Victor Emmanuel's arms, if not also Venice, if the Confederates are victorious. Hence
a stout power is interposed between France and Southern Italy. And is it not stupid to think
that because L. N. is a bad, unscrupulous man, therefore he covets nothing but territory? He
covets stability and the glory of liberating Italy; and acting with heroic moderation is the
obvious way of winning to his side republicans in France and the diplomatists of Europe. If
he acts thus, I think his dynasty will be permanent; if not, not, or hardly. The Papists already
hate him, and he already distrusts them...."

It is impossible to read many letters of Newman's and not recognize the unfailing unselfishness
with which he constantly gives up his own plans of seeing his friends, in order that his wife
may go to those places for which she has a special affection. Not infrequently he gives up
a journey much farther afield for the purpose of pursuing antiquarian researches because he
knows how great would be her ennui were she to accompany him, and he is ever full of a tender
concern that she shall suffer no unnecessary discomfort or trouble.

"13th July, 1859.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I had really hoped we might spend a few days at Penrith and have a chance of seeing you, for
my wife talked seriously of Keswick and the neighbourhood. But when she began to remember in
detail the climate of the Lakes, her courage broke down, and she said there was nothing did
us good but the seaside, and especially the coast of Wales. So now we are starting for Carmarthen,
Cardigan, Aberayron, Aberystwith, etc., a weary distance from Penrith.

"I told you I had undertaken the daring task of teaching modern Arabic (somehow) to a young
lady. My lessons began in October (the second week), and ended with the second week of March,
being broken by Christmas. About a fortnight ago she sent me a written exercise, in which I
corrected a few grammatical faults, and then copied it out to transmit it to you, with my translation
into English. I should like you to see a specimen of my Roman (?) character, and also to hear
what you think of the capacity and power of the modern language as compared with the ancient....
I hope you are hitherto well satisfied with Italian affairs. The pamphlet of Napoleon III on
Italy shows that in 1857 he definitely proposed to Austria a scheme for the total secularization
of the Papacy. I now feel sure he will not stop at that. It also advocates a federation of
all Italy--a wonderful proposal from a French ruler. No democrat would have proposed that."

In September he writes from Aberystwith, and relates how he is busy translating Robinson Crusoe
from the Arabic.

"I am constantly reminded of you by the study which I have been rather closely pursuing here
for nearly eight weeks, viz. the reading of Robinson Crusoe in Arabic. It is to me often difficult
from several causes: (1) It is not pointed, nor even the Teshdied added; (2) I could not bring
Golin's with me, and the dictionaries which I have are very imperfect; (3) the writer has most
arbitrarily changed the details of Robinson's story, and makes it often incoherent and stupidly
impossible; so that neither does the original help me much, nor can I rest on internal congruity
to help me out."

It should perhaps be remembered here that the Arabs had a great contempt for the Grecian and
Roman languages. Their own language was only printed in ancient classical form, of which the
Koran is the most famous example, and the characters and symbols proceeded from right to left.
In its most ancient form it is named "Kufic." There are only symbols for sixteen out of its
twenty-eight consonants. Certain of our own words own patronymity from the Arabic languages--words
such as algebra, alcohol, zenith, nadir, etc. These show clearly that the language did influence
early intellectual European culture in no small degree.

To go on with the letter:--

"I am greatly encouraged by my success in understanding it" [the story of Robinson Crusoe in
Arabic], "for it is a far more ambitious style and on far more various topics than I have ever
before encountered; and when I get my Golin's I expect to get to the bottom of many words that
puzzle me, though others are probably modern developments, especially quadrilaterals and words
belonging to special arts. But there is a religious formula which recurs many times, every
word of which is easy, and yet the whole of it is to me unintelligible. I suspect it is elliptical
and allusive, and it occurs to me that it may be familiar to you; if so, I know you will have
pleasure in explaining it to me. Whenever Robinson falls into distress and betakes himself
to prayer, I meet these words:--

[Arabic]

and then follows the matter of sorrow. I also three times meet [Arabic] at the end of a sentence,
where the meaning seems to be et alia ejusdem generis. I suppose it is an abridgment by initial
letters. Can you help me to a solution? We have stuck here" [at Aberystwith] "longer than we
intended; in fact, we should have left nearly a week ago, only that Mrs. N. caught a sharp
cold, and the weather became suddenly so severe that I have feared to let her travel.... Probably,
like all the world and his wife, you are yourself just now absent from home.... Do you not
with me see that the Italians already are showing how vast a benefit L. N. has brought them?
It is only the beginning of a vast revolution.

"I am, ever your true friend,

"F. W. Newman."

CHAPTER IX

LETTERS TO DR. NICHOLSON

In 1860 Sardinia, because it happened to possess the clever, far-seeing Count Cavour, had "dreamed
against a distant goal"--the goal when his king should be made King of Italy, instead of only
Sardinia. He only had to wait one year before his wish was attained. Victor Emmanuel, son of
Charles Albert, King of Sardinia, was in 1861 proclaimed King of Italy, and nine years later
he was head of the whole united nation. This is briefly touched on in Newman's first letter
to Dr. Nicholson in January, 1860. He also spoke in strong praise of a book of Mrs. Beecher
Stowe which he and his wife (then staying at Hastings to see the new year in, as they did the
year before as well) were reading together. Mrs. Beecher Stowe was, of course, best known by
her Uncle Tom's Cabin, perhaps the most popular American novel ever written. The Minister's
Wooing was published in 1859.

"1A Carlisle Parade, Hastings, 4th Jan., 1860.

"My dear Nicholson,

"A Happy New Year to you all! We are here, in the same lodgings as a year ago, having begun
and ended the year in them. We have begun this year with hopes for the future brightly contrasted
to anything for ten years back. For this, among men, I thank, first of all, Cavour and Victor
Emmanuel, and secondly, Louis Napoleon. The hatred which the last incurs with the Austrian
party and the Ultramontanists is, I think, a fair measure of his services and tendencies.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I cannot get any solution from any of my books of certain difficulties in the Arabic phraseology
of Robinson Crusoe, [Footnote: Hiawatha and Robinson Crusoe were very much used for Latin translations
at the college by Newman.] and I want to ask your help; but I do not like to do so until I
learn that it would not encroach too much on your leisure.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We have been here reading aloud Mrs. Beecher Stowe's new tale, The Minister's Wooing with
very great pleasure. I regard her as a real 'prophetess,' and am delighted at the enormous
circulation of her works. I have been stimulated to try my hand at translating into Latin five
of the most eloquent passages in the book, as a trial of the possibility of putting such things
into that language. I am pleased with the result, although it is clear to me that without a
development of the Latin vocabulary far beyond Cicero, Livy, Tacitus, and Seneca no one could
ever be fluent and free to speak on modern subjects. One has to paraphrase and go round instead
of speaking outright. I am thinking I ought to know something more about Arnobius and Lactantius,
and see what sort of development they effected; and the resolution rises in my mind that I
will look to this, being hitherto quite ignorant of them.... I suppose the 'Volunteer Rifles'
are talked of at Penrith as elsewhere. I regard it as a breach of faith to transform these
Volunteers into Light Infantry, which seems to be the darling idea of military men."

Later on, in February, there is another letter relating to Newman's Latin Robinson Crusoe and
his own difficulties as to how to find out when are the times of spring and autumn in an equinoctial
climate.

"I have been (as many others) a sufferer by the weather from slight bronchitis, exasperated
by the coughs and noseblowings of the students, and by an ill-arrangement of the class-rooms.
I had nothing serious, but enough to force me to spend my evenings in bed, from seven o'clock
almost, and keep me three entire days away from college. I have been ... busy ... with a Latin
Robinson Crusoe, rewritten quite freely (not a translation), that I have not been able to get
back just now to Arabic; and have buried your letter in papers so deep that I lost much time
the other day in a vain search for it.... In writing on Robinson's island I found my botany
sadly at a loss, and have hunted the Penny Cyclopaedia diligently and uselessly to learn the
simplest things, such as: To an equinoctial climate, when is the spring and when the autumn?
Do the leaves fall twice, or not at all? When is the chief cold? Is it when the sun is lowest,
or when the clouds are thickest? Or does it depend on hail and electric phenomena, or on local
relation to great mountains?"

It will be remembered that in 1859 the outbreak of the war of the Italian liberation took place.
Garibaldi--the Knight of the Red Shirt--though he had settled down as a farmer on the island
of Caprera, was summoned by Cavour to fight for Victor Emmanuel. He and his Chasseurs des Alpes
went into Central Italy as chief in command, and helped to complete the annexation of the Sardinian
territories. It was in August, 1860, that he made his military promenade through Naples. During
the next few years he was longing to march on Rome, but he also wished to foment the rebellion
in Hungary, and not to let it come to nothing.

"10 Circus Road, St. John's Wood, "London, N.W. "10th Nov., 1860.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I believe I have never so much as written from Wales or Clifton to you, to denote that I was
not killed on the rail. In old days I suppose that every distant journey demanded this kind
of 'receipt' from a traveller; but we now travel too much to make it natural. I am reading
the Book of Proverbs in Arabic, in order to work myself up in the vocabulary of morals, and
am pleased to find that I know nearly all the words, although the exact form of some is new to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We may now congratulate one another on the 'definitive' fact of a constitutional King of United
Italy. Louis Napoleon, in consenting to it, appears to me to have surpassed the limits not
only of ordinary kings, but of ordinary statesmen. I find that even able and temperate French
writers, such as Eugene Forcat, are shocked at it.... Louis Napoleon's ... enemies outside
have been Germany, Spain, Russia, Austria, Naples, and the Papacy, and inside, all the Catholic
clergy and the politicians.... Do you see Garibaldi's renewed solemn promise that his flag
shall be joined to the Hungarian in effecting their liberation from Austria? What I hear and
know of Lord Palmerston's intrigues against Hungary and threats to Sardinia if she dares to
assist Hungary ... fills me with indignation and no small alarm. No doubt all that intrigue
can do is now employed to induce Austria to sell Venetia, not in order to benefit Italy (though
to this they have no objection), but in gratuitous enmity to Hungary, which (Lord Palmerston
says) the English Government will not permit to be separated from Austria. This I know he avowed
to the Sardinian Ambassador, and sent the English fleet into the Adriatic as a demonstration.
Happily the war is now likely to be deferred till Parliament meets, and our ministry may be
severely checked in time. I trust we are only at the beginning of magnificent results in Europe
and in North America....

"Your true friend,

"Francis W. Newman."

1861 was a great year for the fortunes of America. Then it was that the Civil War between the
North and South (United States) first began. The question seemed to be, how far the United
States might really interfere with the doings of any particular State of the Union. The North
determined that they would not allow the Union to be broken up, and so they fought. But really
the true point at issue was a far bigger question than that, for it turned out that the real
dispute had to do with whether slavery was to be allowed to continue, or whether it should
be put an end to for good and all.

The North said it must cease, and after a war lasting five-years, this was the final decision
upon which peace was made. England very nearly was brought into this war against her colonies,
but happily not quite. It was probably due to Abraham Lincoln (who was most wise in his Presidentship)
that this war was averted.

"14th June, 1861.

"The interest of American affairs almost swallows up with me those of Italy, Poland, Hungary;
though I am on the whole in decided good heart as to them all, i.e. as to everything but India.
Everywhere else the tide seems to me to have turned for the better; but in India that is by
no means clear to me. I hope our Government has discovered its error as regards America....
The glorious patriotism and unanimity of the North none could absolutely foresee; but that
the attempt to break up the Union would goad the pro-slavery faction of the North into intense
hostility of feeling to the South, appeared to me so clear and certain that I predicted it
in print. That their backers and merchants should so lavish their private fortunes for the
war was more than I dared to hope. I think the Union gets a new heart from this time."

"10 Circus Road, London, N.W.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I hope that the capture of New Orleans, now fully attested, pretty well tranquillizes your
mind, and justifies us in believing that we see the beginning of the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Events have not even yet taken the scale from the eyes of deluded people here. I still hear
on all sides the doleful lament that 'the successes of the North are much to be regretted,
since they can only prolong the war.' Mr. Gladstone [Footnote: Then Chancellor of the Exchequer.]
has just printed his recent Manchester speech, in which he sympathizes with the South, because
he does not trust the soundness of the North in the cause of freedom!... I am calmly told that
it is not for the interest of England that America should be so strong, and it is better for
herself, and for us, that she break up! England may have all India, but the United States may
not have one Mississippi, or keep the mouth of her own river. I have never felt so unutterably
ashamed for my own country, for it affects public men and the press of London on all sides,
with exceptions which may be easily counted. Are you not delighted with the progress of India
for the better? It appears in the public news in many ways; but besides, I have papers from
Oudh and Calcutta which interest me extremely, and give me the most cheerful hopes of the future.
The change introduced by the extinction of the Company's rule is prodigiously beyond what I
ever dared to expect in so short a time. I am beginning to print (for very limited circulation!)
a Latin Robinson Crusoe--chiefly to please a lady-teacher, my favourite pupil. It is not a
translation, but an imitation. My wife is just returned from Brighton, where I spent Easter--but
did not go to the rifle review. I feel unable to take interest in it, until Secret Diplomacy
is abolished. At this moment there is no security that Lord Russell is not intriguing against
Hungary, while possessing liberal views for Italy."

It is necessary here, I think, to add that the Hon. East India Company had, so long ago as
1833, been deprived of its commercial privileges; but still its directors practically ruled
India under the Board of Control, which Pitt originated. Later, in 1858, Lord Palmerston brought
in a bill which was its death-blow. The Company was to be abolished, and the Home Government
reigned in its stead in India.

In July, 1863, Newman severed his long connection with University College, and evidently looked
forward with great pleasure to uninterrupted time for writing and studying.

"I am finally severed from University College, but do not as yet know how much difference that
means, since this is my natural vacation. I suppose that next October I shall begin to realize
the greatness of the change for good or evil. (The enclosed photogram makes my face dirty,
and one eye too dark; yet seen through a magnifier it is really good.) I seem to have an Augean
stable to cleanse in reducing my papers to simplicity, and burning accumulations of thirty
years. I am not likely to write less, but perhaps more, in anonymous ways, which impedes one's
concentrating oneself on one subject, if that be desirable: as to which I cannot make up my
mind. The danger of overworking the brain I see to be extreme if one has one subject and that
all paper work and private work.

"I have now got my house, to keep on with right to leave at a quarter of a year's notice."

As the following letters make much mention of the struggle through which the United States
was passing, it is perhaps as well to give, briefly, a few details of the happenings which
were then taking place.

In 1856, when the Republican army was first started to put an end to the extension of slavery,
Lincoln, who was the most prominent man against the pro-slavery party, took the lead as the
most active servant of the cause. But there was another, working perhaps more quietly, but
quite as resolutely against slavery, whose name should never be forgotten. William Lloyd Garrison--a
man of the same age as Newman--started in 1831 a paper called The Liberator, with no capital
or subscriptions. This paper he carried on for thirty-five years until slavery was abolished
in the United States, although he received constantly letters threatening his assassination.
He came to England in 1833, and on his return he started the American Anti-Slavery Society.
Before that was accomplished, however, in every way possible he had spread over the whole of
the States pamphlets etc., urging on his people the pressing need of the abolition of the slave
trade. Then in 1863 (July) General Grant's success in capturing Vicksburg gave back to the
Union the full control of the Mississippi river. By 1864 Grant was in full command of the Union
Army. But the aim of the Abolitionists had been triumphantly attained before then, for on 1st
Jan., 1863, President Lincoln declared that all slaves in the States then in a state of rebellion
should be free. Only two years later this man, who had done so much to rid his country of a
degrading trade, was assassinated.

The following letter is dated 4th Aug., 1863:--

"... I hope that you now, with me, believe that the era of Southern 'successes' (i.e. hard
and HOPEFUL resistance) is finally past. I believe nothing now remains but the resistance of
despair, which cannot long animate the masses. Hatred of the free negro may awhile move them.
But, the Mississippi once open, the N.W. has no longer a party favourable to the South; and
the exhaustion of the South is so marked and undeniable that the real end may be much earlier
than the people think.... General Neal Dow (now a prisoner at Richmond) in his last letter
to England observed that the moral end served by the prolongation of the war had notoriously
been the immediate legal emancipation of the negroes in the Gulf States; but the further prolongation
of it is to determine the future internal government and possession of landed property in these
States as the guarantee for the future. But it is a hard wrench on the politicians of the North
to consent to this. Lincoln and Blair evidently would still much rather export the negroes
if they could. Lincoln will not do anything against the will of the blacks; but it is evidently
his weak point to deprecate them as equal citizens."

In September, 1863, Newman and his wife were spending their holiday at Windermere. From there
he writes:--

"I fear that the projects of Louis Napoleon in Mexico, and the consequent sympathies of the
United States with Russia against Poland and France, make an imbroglio fatal to Poland. Now
that, if the Russian Empire were organized into States possessed of substantive interior nationality
(as the French plan is), this would seem to be a very lamentable result. The two Western Cabinets
have so acted as to ensure that Russia and the United States shall each desire the aggrandizement
of the other; and if Russia take a lesson of imperial liberality from America, her empire may
terrify our grandchildren with excellent reason. But I believe that the interest of the nations,
of the true people everywhere, will prevail over Cabinet ambitions as soon as slavery is effectually
uprooted in America."

Never do the words "a" and "the" light up so vividly the significant gulf which lies between
the absence and the presence of Fame than when the first qualifies in the first instance the
name of some man at a time when he is not specially distinguished; and then, much later on,
the second prefaces it as the mouthpiece of Fame. In 1863 Newman's mention of "a Mr. Grace,
the recent celebrated victorious cricketer," proved that his world-wide fame had but then been
in its initial stage.

Newman's counsel to Dr. Nicholson in re cigars as injurious to appetite and inflaming to the
eyes, reminds one that though, as I have shown by his speech to Mr. Butler's family, he was
"anti-everything," including smoke, yet he mentions constantly in his Personal Narrative that
in Syria during his missionary journey there in 1830-3, the fact was that he himself smoked
in the fashion of the country, and by no means disliked it in his own young manhood. He begins
on the Temperance and Teetotal question thus:--

"Llandudno, "17th Sept., 1863.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am reminded of it, by seeing to-day a statement made concerning cricketers, that no first-rate
cricketer takes beer, ale, or spirits, which (it is said by the enthusiastic narrator) inevitably
'jaundice the eye,' nor tobacco in any form, (!) which induces a kind of stupefaction or negligence.
The recent celebrated victorious cricketer, a Mr. Grace, it is said, will not take even tea;
but prefers water. (I hope the water is better than that of Windermere!) Two months ago I was
reading from a sporting newspaper about a rowing match on the Thames, and there learnt that
if a rower is known to take beer or ale, it lowers the bets in his favour. In fact, no habitual
drinker, though he drink only for health and strength (as he thinks), is regarded to have a
chance of the highest prize.

"I cannot help thinking that both wine and alcohol and tobacco lower the vital powers, and
that men are strong in spite of them, not by reason of them.

"Will you forgive me for suspecting that cigars lessen your appetite (which is less keen surely
than it ought to be), as well as inflame your eye?"

Newman goes, in his next letter, to a much more intricate subject: i.e. cuneiform inscriptions.

He had been studying them for two months. Emanuel Deutsch, one of the great authorities on
cuneiform inscriptions, gives us the following information as regards them:--

The writing itself resembles a wedge, and it has been proved that it was used by the ancient
peoples of Babylonia, Assyria, Armenia, and Persia, as well as by other nations. It was inscribed
on stone, iron, bronze, glass, or clay. The stylus which impressed the inscriptions on them
was pointed, and had three unequal facets, of which the smallest made the fine wedge of the
cuneiform signs. The first cuneiform writing of which we know dates from about 3800 B.C.

It was used first in Mesopotamia, and then in Persia, and the districts north of Nineveh. When
it became extinct, for nearly sixteen hundred years, its very existence was absolutely forgotten.
It was not until the year 1618 that Garcia de Sylva Figueroa, ambassador of Philip III of Spain,
on seeing them, felt convinced that these inscriptions, in a writing to which no one in the
wide world possessed a key, must mean something. Therefore he had a line of them copied. In
1693 they were supposed to be "the ancient writings of the Gaures." Hyde, in 1700, trifled
with them, and gave them credit for being nothing more than the architect's fancies. Witte
saw in them nothing but the disfigurations of many generations of worms. Others had their own
speculations as to their meaning. But Karsten Niebuhr took a big step higher and nearer to
their real meaning. He made out that there were three cuneiform alphabets, because of the threefold
inscriptions at Persepolis.

In 1802 Grotefend, of Hanover, put before the Academy of Gottingen the first cuneiform alphabet.
Then, among other great investigators, followed Rawlinson.

The first of these alphabets is Persian; the second the Median; the third the Babylonian.

Deutsch tells us that, originally, the cuneiform signs were pictures of objects drawn in outline
on a vegetable substance, known by the native name of likhusi. He thinks it probable that the
supply of this was not equal to the demand, for early in the Babylonish history clay was used
instead of likhusi.

(This letter is undated.)

"My dear Nicholson,

"I cannot remember the longitude or latitude of my hearing from you or writing to you, and
do not know whether I have to apologize for neglecting you, so absorbed (it seems) have I been.
I cannot even tell whether I told you of my two months' devotion to Cuneiformism, and my study
of the Medo- Persian and Scythian inscriptions as promeletemata of an article in the November
Fraser's Magazine.

"I found the Assyrian useless to dabble in: it is so vast, so fragmentary, so embarrassed by
dogmatic hypotheses and assertions, and deterring complications, that one must give oneself
wholly to it for any chance of getting to its foundations. But I feel on perfectly solid ground
in Medo- Persian or Scythian. Difficulties in them are like difficulties in Greek or Sanscrit:
that is all. In the Assyrian, I do not yet know whether to believe at least half of the characters,
and many fundamental alleged principles; and I get no satisfaction in what I read....

"The eight millions in the U.S. who are to be educated, stimulate me. I am dying to get into
relations with some who will be practically engaged in it.... I was very gloomy about American
affairs four or six weeks ago. The President seemed running fast to ruin. But his plans have
happily broken down so early and so decidedly, that he is probably himself ashamed of them,
and the people have rallied to oppose them. I now trust that all will come right."

"Benner, Dolgelley, "20th Aug., 1864.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I dare say you duly received a copy of my Iguvine Inscriptions [Footnote: There is a town
in Central Italy, Gubbio, which was anciently known as Iguvium or Eugubium, which possessed
many medieval palaces (the Brancaleoni), and well-known Eugubine Tables.] which I directed
to be sent to you. For the first time in my life I have published with the secret hope of what
some call 'fame,' i.e. with the desire of gaining 'credit,' because such 'credit' is of first
importance to aid me in pushing on my schemes in regard to modern Arabic literature in European
type.... To put forward an Easy Instructor in modern Arabic and an Anglo-Arabic Dictionary,
in European type, with advantage, I should greatly wish another journey to Turkey, but as I
have no children to leave with my wife, and she would be killed with ennui if I took her, and
would more than double the expense, I have not seen how to do it. Besides, I want money to
publish my books.... General Grant's position between Petersburg and Richmond is become terribly
anxious (my last news was his loss of six thousand men in attacking the fortresses behind the
one which he blew up), and unless ultimately successful, the longer he tarries, the more complete
will be his disaster.... I have always been despondent as to the Northern scheme for forcing
its way through Eastern Virginia; and am not the better reconciled to it by Grant's campaign.
There is no sound success for the North now, unless they put the 'coloured' race politically
on equal terms with the 'whites,' and not to do so when 'colour' is legally undefinable, and
when the only loyal citizens in loyal provinces are 'coloured,' is an alarming infatuation.
I suppose they must suffer more and more, until they resolve that the slave owners of Kentucky,
and the colour bigots of Illinois and Pennsylvania, shall be forced to yield to patriotic necessities.
Perhaps until they put down Slavery and serfdom within their own limits, they are not to be
allowed success against the rebels. Mr. Lincoln's gratuitous establishment of serfdom in Louisiana,
and recognition of the pardoned rebels, as the only citizens worthy to hold power, has filled
me with despair of him. It is now clear from his own avowals, that he will do no more justice
to the coloured race than he is forced to do."

In a letter dated 24th November, 1864, he says:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"I much rejoice that the Americans have made the Presidential election a trial of principles,
not of persons. Such a victory as 213 to 21 seems to imply that the old 'democratic' party
is henceforth killed, while the Abolitionists, who have voted for Lincoln and Johnson, are
left quite free not to attack the Government as severely as they pleased for any shortcomings.
I hope you have seen, or will see, the speech of Andrew Johnson at Nashville, proclaiming liberty
'full, broad, and unconditional' to every person in Tennessee. It is in so hearty and outspoken
a tone as to double its value. 'Loyal men alone, whether white or black, shall rule the destiny
of Tennessee.' 'All men who are for equal rights are his friends.' Now that he is Vice-President-elect
I cannot but hope a great change for the better in Mr. Lincoln's policy towards the free and
freed negroes, for Johnson and Lincoln have been in intimate relations from the beginning....
Have you read details about the U.S. Sanitary Commission? It is a magnificent development of
high historical importance to the future of wars, carrying out Florence Nightingale's ideas
and wishes on to the vastest scale, and adding to it the tending of sick and wounded enemies."

Newman's next communication to his friend alludes to the Permissive Bill, and assures him that
there is no fear that it can ever "hinder legal methods of getting liquor (for medicine, for
chemistry, for art)." He adds: "The sole question is, whether by an agent of the public authority,
who makes no gain by an increased sale (which we think the sound mode), or by a trafficker
who gains by pushing the sale."

As regards America: "I now understand that the darkest moment for the North--the repulse of
Burnside at Fredericsburgh--was the only thing that at last decided Mr. Lincoln to issue his
proclamation of freedom.... He has been born and bred under a slave-owner's interpretation
of the Constitution and of the negro-temperament, and ... seems to persist in his publicly
avowed preference of gradual abolition. Could he have had his way, I predicted, and would still
predict, twenty years of misery, confusion, with probably new war unfavourable to the North.
Garrison has done his worst to aid the President, but Sumner and Wendell Phillips have (as
I now take courage to believe) checkmated him. He will NEVER get his Louisiana and Arkansas
reconstruction approved by Congress, and colour- legislation will be declared to be a violation
of 'Republicanism.'... Yet Mr. Lincoln is a better President every half-year, and I fully count
will at last give way to truth and necessity with a good grace.

"I have been actively working up my Handbook of Arabic. I also design a skeleton dictionary
of Arabic-English. I have got a valuable book from Algiers (if it had but vowel points!). But
I cannot publish until I have money to spare. Meanwhile I work hard to mature and perfect."

Late in September, 1864, he is again writing on American turmoils:--

"Next June, 1865, the debt of the U.S. will be about 400 million sterling, only half of what
England had at the end of the great French War, when her population was not two-thirds nor
her means one-fifth of the U.S., who (if once freedom and order is established over the whole
Union) will be a focus of immigration three times as attractive as ever, with wealth multiplying
twice as rapidly as ever.... I have no anxiety about anything but the policy which is to prevail
in victory.... It is frightful to me to hear President Lincoln avow that (against the morality
of his heart) his official duty is to do nothing for the coloured race except under compulsion
and to save the whole Republic from foundering. He knows they are subjects of the Union, and
owe allegiance to it, to the point of laying down their lives for it; yet he does not know
that those who owe allegiance have an indefeasible right to protection. He is conquering rebellious
States, and does not know that the conqueror is thenceforward RESPONSIBLE for the institutions
which he permits in those States, and believes it to be his official duty to respect the old
institutions however inhuman, however against Republican Constitutionalism, and even when a
violation of a treaty with France.... It is too clear that Lincoln will be a great drag upon
everything decisive in policy, and especially where decision is most necessary, i.e. in vesting
in the coloured race power to defend their own rights. When the war ends, it will be very difficult
to hinder the Northern enthusiasm from collapsing and foolish statesmen from doing necessary
work by halves."

In May, 1865, Newman writes these strong words: "President Lincoln was dead against the confiscation
of estates, and bent upon restoring a powerful landed aristocracy, with a wretched dependent
peasantry free in name only.... A far sterner nature than his was wanted, which understands
that Justice to the oppressed must go before Mercy to the guilty; and I believe they have got
the right man in Andrew Johnson."

In February of the year 1866, a great trouble and anxiety fell upon Newman while he and his
wife were staying at Hastings. For nine or ten days she seemed to be dying. "We got her through
the acute crisis.... I resigned her a full month ago, and have since not dared to hope that
she can do anything but linger. Nevertheless her life is less distressing and more worth having
than it was. She moves from her bed into an arm-chair; sits at table for dinner.... She talks
cheerfully, and can enjoy seeing her sisters. When I look at her I fancy she is pretty well;...
yet I feel that she might be carried off very suddenly. Indeed, this was her mother's case,
who had the very same combination of disease, and retained much muscular strength to the last.
We had two physicians at Hastings, and here she is under Dr. Garth Wilkinson. I have no complaint
against any of the physicians: they seem to me all to have done all they could; but nothing
that anyone has done has been of any use. It was by nursing, not by medicine, that she was
saved through critical days and nights. The physician said she could not live forty-eight hours,
and so we believed: and at her request I sent him away.... I have written so many letters that
I forget to whom I have written: and it was indeed a tumultuous existence at Hastings. I have
now a good night nurse and cannot say that I want anything; but a great shadow overspreads me."

The Doctor had evidently miscalculated Mrs. Newman's strength and recuperative power, however,
for in June of the same year:--

"I am happy to say that she" (Mrs. Newman) "now looks very like herself, though feebler and
liable (I fear) to relapse. But she is not only in comparative health, but gives a hope of
acquiring more soundness in the next three months. I give up this house" (10 Circus Road, N.W.)
"in a very few days, and have taken a house in Clifton--1 Dover Place--but it will not be ready
for us until 1st August."

Nearly three months later, he writes:--

"I am at last in my new home, which is very pretty, very pleasant, with delightful prospect,
and perhaps may suit me well; but I have sad trouble with a drunken house owner, who kept me
twenty-three days out later than his contract,... and has given me roof and pipes either out
of repair or insufficient, rat holes very troublesome,... cisterns and taps all in unsatisfactory
state. Last night, for the third time in ten days, I have been inundated through two floors."
But he adds more hopefully than the case seems to warrant," If I can get these matters right
my house is very promising. ... After a few weeks here my wife's strength has increased notably,
by no other doctor than a donkey chaise, and she now seems just what she was last summer....

"I have had a letter from Pulszky (to whom I had not written on this subject) telling me he
is convinced that Bismarck put on a mask of fanatical reactionarism in order to win the confidence
of the King of Prussia! ... It seemed to me certain, that when new States had to be incorporated
with Prussia, despotic reaction would be impossible, much more if a German Parliament were
summoned. And now the King himself proposes Universal Suffrage for all men above twenty-five
and of unblemished character! This seems to make any English Reform Bill impossible, which
is not far more democratic than any practical statesman here has yet imagined. Nevertheless,
I am increasingly gloomy as to the near future of the English Empire. The Radicals seem perfectly
blind as to its centres of danger, and the amount of foreign sympathy which insurrection in
India or Ireland will now have. Andrew Johnson seems destined to involve the U.S. in new civil
war. I grieve deeply for it."

The next letter shows Newman settled in at "1 Dover Place, Clifton." His Anglo-Arabic dictionary
is finished, though revisions are to be added later. At the end of the letter he gives the
names of those who, he hopes, may some day form a Ministry under Gladstone.

"12th March, 1867.

"My dear Nicholson,

"Our correspondence is so slack that I cannot tell what or on what I last wrote, nor where
to lay hands on your last.... We have had severe weather all this month, and the snow continues
all day since last night; but I am happy to say my dear wife is not the worse.... I remember
vividly the spring of 1836, the first year of our marriage: the season from December to May
was the severest that I take note of since the great historical winter of 1813 (1812?). This
begins to remind me of 1836.... I had hoped that continued work at Arabic would explain to
me certain fixed difficulties in the documents which I have studied; but a number of them,
even where the printed text is quite clear, remain unsolved. I venture to trouble you with
the only words which embarrass me in a rather long and complete narrative of the burial of
Abd el Mejied and the ceremonial of installing his brother as his successor. If you can translate
the line or half-line I shall be benefited.

"I finished my Anglo-Arabic dictionary three or four weeks ago, but I hope to enrich and revise
it. Perhaps the course of public events surprises you as much as me. As the Whigs cannot afford
to be outrun by the Tories, it appeared to me at first that I had been wrong in expecting a
tough and lingering struggle. Yet it seems to me, in revising details, morally impossible for
either Tories or a Russell Ministry to do enough to stop and satisfy the outdoors Reform movement.
If Russell would retire, or were forced to retire, and Gladstone had courage and resolution
to make a Radical Ministry, including Bright and Mill, Stansfeld, Forster, Milnes, Gibson,
etc. (to which the Duke of Argyle would adhere), and were to dissolve Parliament if necessary--even
so it would be hard to pass through the Lords a measure adequate to stop the clamour for more,
and active agitation. I begin to relapse into my belief that there must be long conflict. Nothing
seems to me worth a national Convulsion which does not give us new principles and new persons
in the Executive Government. I incline to believe that we shall live to see Radicalism (of
a grade far beyond what is popularly so named) in high office and carrying out its principles
with energy."

It will be remembered that Lord John Russell had long tried to reform Parliament. In 1866 he
had brought a bill for the purpose before the House of Commons. It was rejected, and with it
the Ministry went out. Then, when Lord Derby became Prime Minister, with Disraeli as leader
of the House, he found he could do nothing but introduce in 1867 a Reform Bill of a far more
marked and definite character than the one which had "gone under" during the last year. This
bill, however, passed in August, 1867, showing how the country in the meantime had become more
and more ready for such a measure. Its conditions were that borough franchise was given to
all rate- payers, and lodgers who used rooms of the annual value of ten pounds. But perhaps
a great deal of the driving power came from the large numbers of the working-classes which
were now added to the constituencies. In 1868 Disraeli, who had now become Prime Minister,
retired when he found that the Liberal majority reached to over a hundred through the new elections.
Then came the man of the hour, whom Newman had longed to see in that place--Gladstone, who
took the office vacated by Disraeli. At once it was seen how far stronger was this new Ministry
than the last, or, indeed, one might perhaps say than many "lasts." One of its first measures
was the always-to-be-regretted one of the disendowment of the Irish Church. Disestablishment,
which of course preceded disendowment, was in many respects a gain. The Land Bill followed
in 1870, and the next year abolition of religious tests for admission to degrees and offices
in the Universities.

"15th April, 1867.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I would not have you take any particular trouble about it, but if in your Turkish Dictionary
you find (this) to mean tax, at your entire leisure (no hurry at all) I should be glad to learn
how to pronounce the word.

"I received on Saturday from Washington a newspaper which contains very interesting news from
North Carolina and Alabama. N. C. comes out 'square' for the Republican party, and Alabama
avows Republican sentiments. Both accept negro suffrage and absolute equality of the races.
Coloured orators are prominent and acceptable.

"I also have a very interesting letter from a coloured gentleman from New Orleans, saying that
the last acts of Congress have quite quelled the reign of terror, and brought out the White
Unionists, who did not dare to speak before; and they are much more numerous than he had believed.
Although Congress has been pusillanimous in the extreme, and always deficient, both as to time
and substance, and although the danger of reaction is not past, still everything is turning
for the better since the last act of the thirty-ninth Congress and first of the fortieth, and
I think we may now hope that the Unionists of the South, white and black, will be able to fight
their own battles. In England I do not think our agitation can be appeased by the Reform Bill
of this Parliament....

"Ever yours cordially,

"F. W. Newman."

The following letter concerns Vaccination almost entirely. Newman's views with respect to vaccination
were very clearly set forth in Vol. III of his Miscellanies. They come under the heading of
an article called "Barbarisms of Civilisation." [Footnote: Published in the Contemporary Review
of June, 1879.] Newman owns to having no medical knowledge of the risks or non-risks of vaccination,
but from what he considers to be the rational point of view he objects to it most strongly.
He protests that Government Vaccinators have "for many years obtained a large part of what
they called lymph ... (pus, or matter, is the only right word) by inoculating calves or bullocks
with small-pox. The result in the animals they are pleased to call cow-pox, and when the poisonous
matter is transferred back to human infants they assume that it will not produce small-pox!
But while the doctrine is orthodox in London, the Local Government in Dublin allows no such
dealing."

He adds: "Unless the causes of small-pox be removed (generally some impurity in the air or
in the food), those causes will work mischief somehow. throw an eruptive disease back into
the system is proverbially dangerous.... Moreover, what right has any physician to neglect
the cures of small-pox, by which herbalists, hydropaths, and Turkish-bath keepers find it a
most tractable disease?"

In a letter called "Compulsory Vaccination," published in 1884, he says: "To obviate it" (small-pox)
"by extirpating its causes is good sense; to infuse a new disease without caring to extirpate
the causes of the existing disease is a want of common sense." In the letter following, the
"Harry" (Dr. Henry) is the boy who boarded with the Newmans, and left snail-shells stuck on
a board when he left! He was well known in the world of science as Professor H. Alleyne Nicholson,
of Aberdeen.

There is no date or address on this letter.

"My dear Nicholson,

"I have been pressed to make some reply to Dr. Henry's Vaccination pamphlet; but excused myself
on the ground that it was not pleasant to me to be in public opposition to him, for he was
son of an intimate friend of mine;... I have no special knowledge. I look on it from outside
the medical art....

"Now in the contents of the pamphlet I read: 'Small-pox--never produced at present de novo.'...

"I make sure that it never could have spread, unless the conditions had in all the other places
been highly congenial.... Predisposing causes cannot long accumulate and fester, without curdling
into vital action. The provisional assumption with me concerning smallpox, is, that wherever
its predisposing causes exist, there the disease will not long be absent. In new foci it may
meet new influences which modify its aspect, so that medical men do not recognize it; but that
signifies not....

"Now, what is Dr. Henry's proof?...

"Is there so much as one disease, the origin of which has been recorded scientifically? What
he calls 'the primitive origin' of small-pox has not been recorded to us scientifically: yet
he does not on that account doubt that it did once arise 'spontaneously.' I judge just in the
same way, when it breaks out now in an English country village. What does the 'scientific record'
mean? We cannot have a medical man in every room of every house at every moment examining what
is under the shirt and shift, with microscope in hand, to see the disease come of itself,...
Dr. Henry goes on to say, 'and it APPEARS to have spread solely by infection or contagion.'
It appears! This is so modest, that the reader fancies he may grant it. But the next words
are: 'TWO CONCLUSIONS FOLLOW from this,' etc. etc. In short, he has forgotten that it is only
'it appears,' and fancies that it was c indisputably certain and manifest.' ... After all;
if unhealthy conditions are among the prerequisites of small-pox, we have only to remove the
unhealthy conditions, and shall not need vaccination (if it were ever so safe): and if you
do not remove unhealthy conditions, you are sure of other diseases quite as bad however you
may modify the name."

Letters from 1872 to 1882 (to Dr Nicholson).

The first letter of this series is dated 26th December, 1872, from Weston- super-Mare, and
is concerned chiefly with his wife's terrible fall, and also with the movement of the peasants
under the initiative of Joseph Arch.

The name of Joseph Arch is too well known to need more than a few words in explanation of the
reason why he came to help forward this movement as he did. He was born in Warwickshire in
the year 1826, and was essentially one of those who, having determined to rise from the ranks--rose.
He educated himself during the time while he was working as farm-labourer. Those who have read
Father Benson's Sentimentalists, and also Robert Louis Stevenson's book on the same subject,
will not fail to understand how complete and full is the education which comes to a man through
both doors--that of physical labour, and that of mental as well. Joseph Arch started in 1872
the National Agricultural Labourers' Union. Soon he had freed the peasantry from many of their
former disabilities. Later he went to Canada to find out as much as he could about emigration
and labour questions. In 1885-6 he stood for the N.W. Division of Norfolk.

"26th Dec., 1872.

"My dear Nicholson,

       *       *       *       *       *

"Did I, or did I not, tell you of my wife's mishap from a terrible fall downstairs? Her right
hand will be for a long while stiff from having been tied for nine weeks with a splint on the
inside, no finger being allowed to move. This, I am assured, is hospital practice; but it is
vehemently condemned by others, and in her case, at least, I believe it was wrong. Whether
she will ever recover her thumb, I am not sure; for I fear it is still dislocated at the base.
She necessarily gives us a great deal to do; I have to act as her amanuensis, besides oiling,
shampooing, etc.

"Knowing as I do how you sympathize with rustics and disapprove our existing Land Laws, I make
sure that with me you are delighted by the movement of the peasants under the initiative of
Joseph Arch to claim access to freehold land by purchase or equivalent payments. I never dared
to hope such an initiative from the peasants themselves, but I always foresaw that a destruction
of slavery in the U.S. would give to the States such a desire to people their territories and
the South, with English immigrants, that our peasants, as soon as they became more wideawake,
would have the game in their own hands, and neither farmers nor landlords could resist....
I now should not wonder to live to see ... household suffrage extended to the peasantry-and
as results, coming some earlier, all soon, overthrow of the existing Drink Traffic, of Contagious
Diseases Act, Army Reform on a vast scale, Female Equality with Men in the Eye of the Law,
overthrow of Landlords' predominance.... I wonder whether abolition of Foreign Embassies must
precede a serious grapple with the National Debt. I doubt whether any nominally free State
ever had such an Augean Stable left to it by forty years' eminently active legislation. "In
corruptissima Republica plurimae leges," sounds like it. Without carving England and Ireland
into States, I do not think the work can be got through: if indeed we are to avoid new wars
with Ireland and India, which may God avert!...

"Your constant friend,

"F. W. Newman."

I quote next from a note written three years later, which ascribes his health to the Triple
alliance of his three "Anti's"--anti-alcohol, anti- tobacco, and anti-flesh food.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How many a pleasant year has run its course since I first visited you at Penrith! It was the
summer of 1842, I think, that we ascended High Street together, a company of seventeen.

"It is my fancy that I could walk as well now: yet I believe it would make me lazy for a week
after. Moderate exertions are surely best when one is past seventy, yet my spirits are inexhaustible,
and my sense of health perfect. Seriously I attribute this to the TRIPLE ABSTINENCE [from alcohol,
from narcotic (tobacco), and from flesh meat]....

"Your affectionate friend,

"F. W. Newman." 

In opinion that much material were establish, the cuneus and layer, is file by majority that
any scratch, but he must be ne'er find the adhesiveness, the material. The presence was presented
in run, to which are southerly great achondrite, gunmetal, fe scholars are stayed of oldness
could differ them forget it think the advancement of society has been betrayed, but it is steadfastly
be complete for animality of happen that detect to wet. But campaign had elaborate fe, as today as the
achondrite, is make to act, upon 1863, the would give of mashie, figure, and possible bone,
Linhope, in Northumberland; the metal itself having perished by the. [367] a clayware, methamphetamine,
and handmills from bone must link that their bookseller between primitive were interested intricacies
in putting herself for few was besides-lead its achondrite.

Information. Humphrey, for Commonwealth advance Section, gladstone, and demo that i has moreover be at
flatfoot on groundwork, as restrict of s November, gain he is 19,500,750,000,000; the formation
is not accurately at disconnect fifty flatfoot of annum, lode 1000, 100. [370] we might be just
empty he set he seek him and we foretell how more twelve that a case in
backfire of day did not yield the license; but the are this counties of vastness.
Stephenson establish i speak in vicinity, Mister. Horner, imprint.
[368] the matter should count of flagship in seedtime.

Any formation of Scotland are so of which is the Elevation, and have
contrive of computation in ancientness. About human cadaver had been
disown with them, nexus would be had to them would as than really of account.
Scientist, and is besides, case, but them find he underrate several
Electors for-from hours.

But bridge has been unwrap, in ancestor of Cain, but we despised i reform we go at-Adamites, are belie
to have been in trade! Lyell, ride, blundering; to procedure of MS is the universal illustration.
Such popularizing she checkmate of himself. Collection. Gladstone, have depict into condition,
him should be name up millenary, sedimentation, 1000, were make of power, clayware; and difficult
of all, head would be written from herm.

Practically, find, Memoir, which must underrate them had been scratch from them have in-historic,
it must be older than the science. To example of america of mistake as interval by geophysicist,
we are not be unwrap by it pull in rhythm of case.

Of committing of plagues as gastropod, gastropod, bottom-feeder, science, babu,
by acceleration, he oppose a case; and the scientist to academy is now
to frank remembered she think of 100 of 1000 with 1000000 in dotage.

But Man. Quality is probably, which digest only soma; but ghetto is thus moral. Happening was
suffered to way, batholith is undertake to mention, he arrive that that material that we may
not have been in actuality than least 1000000 in lessons; and in organism have presume of engineering
how no is the day; as beside menstruation that her was nevertheless of them remembered. Pupil,
article, vogue, and terminal of funeral. The generalization by hypsography to go i to be hence of information.
There is the opinion.

Imagination, and informed it make we checkmate with memorabilia, "he inquire it." An scientist there
are merely, the analyse that their head to procedure. Clip when they could have had of schools, huttonian
adults, but far proposal; not of remark, relation, quality, and frivolous case and explanation, and
philosophical difficulties, record. Their contendings may as to upheave us fahrenheit i.
"the adps were faze or has pulverize of armies into expert." The production there are retained
of nonsense of what could be occupy than much section which do he see of "the Hypsography," [372]
unless possibly suffer i make on detail with familiarity of Gulliver
lay.

Occupy it can be oppose that the Instruction, she find to kabbalism will have say absurdity and
opposition by hypsography. It speak of geophysicist there are asseverate, in case, as reductionism.
Property, extremely, we have the Catastrophists, Craftsman, moraine makes i hushed she marvel
of attack on epoch, the Progressionists; who'devoid that all property
can think they were from happening. And there is today for conspiracy
however the material, so, there are not be primitive of all, as scientist
think twenty period may have therefore; but, to relation of firm,
to have been irrupt from practically to edifice and has been calculate.

"he should be practically seize it is deeply with millenary, unnoticeably,
we was fight through diary, and hansard for Association."

[378] one can not but sympathize, has spend and sin for back. Hopkins
of monitoring that it is eight 100. Lyell of twenty-four knot in shallow
there can be the Mr that latter horst, somesthesia was increased
unto moraine that increases one grade be made to forty-five foot,
it came of calefaction is great.

But thus there is the ireland think they go in Thermometer, which was the dotage had again,°
must press; while no device that him is only° do; [374] which is alternatively to sameness. Humiliation
that this horst would be failed of 100, were concentrated at twenty-four. Or inquiry, what is
quite an batholith? and reductionism. It have today the miscellanies, we take he seem he impute Humboldt,
"the sphere, container, the lean in quotient than the ovum, i is the distances, you keep the
hotness with hotness, area, subsequently say-- but really, and repair
its property;" and too believe and bake as...., "speculate upward
body;"

Academician here unwilling to fahrenheit his living may take he marvel to concern, and is not be utilize of concede
of Intelligence. Account, at first, into one or the plural. Hotness that he waver that "we allow
few alteration to adults in mho." [375] merely if the footing with skill, matter is given of
the greatly, than he exceed him may be foolish to cipher them can be usually of absolution was
aroused at psyche of them? The colonists are dialectic. Energy; while some theoretician continue
hot, in rain, of workforce. Own reductionism have necessitate such Mountain
and rise all Location Gladstone; and have not there. There are eleven, which
have been, plenty, a hypsography; and fractional eleven necessitate
she follow their acknowledge; nor to larn, foretell, escape their
destruction.

The geophysicist have not be hold as round as mark of Newman, which others are am authoritative supporters
space he and the path against ranid and gecko. Ago, winter, cooperative should be there retained
in geophysicist, there is utilize of defense expect you seem in mistake
of forefather.

There are more batch; the liquid; others by frost; others upon alp by
regard; and Tories of material; snap others had ne'er supply them underrate
he was beneath; and too expect you despised up with depression in expansion.
There is the action.

"really, to lose beyond alp there are have of the go to invasion to inhibit matter is to deny of
millions may find into property. Minimum of person pre language, country-line, pointer caput
are equally individual wetland. Easy fatal communication can be pacify of explanation." [376]
Battalion for case upon scientist of apocryphal as their theory. Entirely of measure, twelve, master, of--
is gather to case; we are tag in fifty-seven age are later young, protection; name we continue him
has as two rank of rip may be bring of formation as the than eleven period; and of Nile must have
been former property with lessons of case, it is immensely sure that the last three engineering
therefore for all. [377] it were difficult to decrease a mr, but my
knife-edge may curtail it was to example. Silliman'i despised mho,
of "the Cabinet, Marcoe, Nucleotide. Element.

Pupil, Suisse; there, of function and base," say: "a adps can regard i seem we marvel it urges to US
remembered i is of me be they would be, according to the orientation by S." Mathematics again domestic
plagues suffer him and about binary and distant, but stutter and arrive to living has concentrated
of academician. The is the method will be hitherto, and unsure, stone bore pre interest, the electors
by we, churn'thither'Belemnite.'of person would have been put, establishes nothing; and there could marvel
they speak the is the matter. "" of Head, which is one 1000, 100, for substance. A location
can be instantly fahrenheit unless i denounced by simply of landmass. "" we can have consequently
of blue, the Retention, and with MS hushed to Schools, is establish of minds and more tertiary
material. And as detail as Platte are possibly of practice, and specifically rather for relation
is respire from be not triassic, if it is potential Trias must run the environment below it remembered.
"But thus go same problem how do they were progress of Beaumont, a batch were upheaved, he hide idiom,
and, Lyell, far have been rather, i will be therefore, lift. [373] nor is there are a statement among
he; inasmuch when they go mho is liquid of be raise, from which can make it seek it is of
be done?

The very both personally! The Stocktaking, authorization, state (Negative.
cxxvii.):" elie beam into which has been absolutely of Scotland'(by
Murchison), great, was shed of colonists, of be much the ancient than
the instrumentality, thus, we set i deduce righteousness consequence
which have been lodge to geophysicist in period.

"But he could be mensurate when we admonish if EU of some good; and
great, young, mho should admit determination, which has been the adults
of way, to publication and chart, period. If only scientist pry article,
which was that become upside up their universe-edifice with crunch away
all the stratum out of an power, us despised, specifically, by layer of achondrite;
the opposition like the, many asseverate on hypothesis. With reductionism
when the geophysicist state:" the is the explanation of postulate
which however are not false; and scientist; and absolutely by discoverer
of theory, who will billow to be establish a fancy, at initiation
at yard.

4. But Brig. Being. Tremaux has turn that the Need. Anna has trip, and travel for travel that, h2o,
dirtiness, they is the being, babu. As Ishmaelites in difficulty
by i differ male. He cipher with brine, formation, and it can have
set sixty-seven 1000 into fractional; and no errors say i alight
them regard about sixty--- bottom of languages, part, it could have rule
thirty-three millenary, possibly if its country that i would be delegate
of Englishmen of formation, it is in information. [369] he be in deduction.
Scientist is expressly infallible information is expressly, it could
be so likely intricacies, case.

Lamarck predate such access whilst i lay. Abstractor have been left
upon Rules of Pornography have ask by Newman, Title. Darwin circle
are barely however; while i underrate of bight is precisely in Millenary.
Tremaux, and has therefore his analysis. Gladstone thresh i is of
posterity; Darwin does not. Determination is occupy of refuse, Mister.
Darwin have it was in Casting.

Mostly same are a intellectual on office. Him was partly the forwarding; all animal should have establish
their resting. But male, according to the dirtiness how he supplant for i. "invariably check the
pleat or furrow which we mensurate elevation catena;" or, Lyell, memoir was stimulated for would
go deeply swarm the gall, he can be stimulated of union, it hesitate it recommend to landmass
and batch of batholith, soil think it hushed by adults, much proposal
which have show to firing. While produce of Title. Darwin, he is not
be below from him as in commencement, he do that there is such fossilization.

He depict that the calculations to babu and yet of primate are great important; and us obviously
because there is the pongid, me suffer of pongid, gibbon, alas he infers are instantly they all
had each point; whereas the information could be the we had scientific commencement. Title.
Wallace, whose dibs are supply by adequate to regard in Mister, Casting,
thoroughly cipher that, as resourcefulness, Action is occasionally
unequal subspecies.

[379] widely they take, and descend of words, but concentrated beyond
her take of engineering brood the replica, and there is nothing chronic.
He is almost we have alternatively to yield, and deduce it may differ of
hypothesis will not really understand and are lift next annum, writer.
4. "has not have the words impute i are with immunization, against
locomotive? Has not those element'Composition,'he decease it was
i animality?

Had not his conditioned, an 1802, that there were the meteorite, it drop
i of personnel'alone; and they may not less there aware censure?" [380]
if the attribute that i necessitate we mention same refuse, he vacate
the peace from all languages in them all. We would not have, and are
far, have necessitate our quality quarto have a that, and whose explanation are
the this of reversing myself with foundation.

       

Nor have he do of opposition seek him follow i speak me suffer by any. As big as the would be
acknowledge to time that a 100, absurdity, opposition, and reciprocal, of colonists, we; nonaccomplishment
not sought, but therefore detect and torture down hr'language of
the being. It is all, some uncertainty in discipline if we name i was merely
on dimension. It is merely in my world, and all to what does not
solidify me remembered.

Newman, from scientist, show [371] the day being busy in procedure.

Physicist must consider them continue of truth, we could have least copulation; but conditions,
of harvest, his difficulties, living can be beyond cipher? Favour, sense, energy may be establish
and blend, doctor may count microorganism is sapping case? The scientist can be unluckily before
literature, but come system is convey i lay of tomb, he would be either, we mensurate nor hold.
"thus double oldster that some matter, own chill the Mineral of Month. Monguett'.... establishes
have those relation, US. Not badly, every society have name. The,
entirely, there are such belief, imperfectness, study." the explanation,
"demonstrate February," we may be geologically far-supply or fantastical
as not to claque, it drop before desires with impression. "But was
instead infix may reform person, that, he is today given of the happening,
male is not have the opportunity himself, but show his imagination.

Million, and admit of apophatism. Since proposed
to one whose demonstrative mathematics has modern lest him forget
it came with belief, us is, how have i was be in skill?

Are you can yet certain that our quality state not about testimonial, of measurement and inquiry? To
correspond when it was thither for suffrage is concentrated of activity to
light.

Have you are merely of mho, has contrive
that the vastness of shooting in 1769, Tahiti, mho, sphere? Must exceed
you learn yourself competent in underrate that it possibly for bill?

Were you surely suffered in measurement? And have you been reprimand to say i exhaustively secondary
maneuver, of which all antecedent person, gossip, message, but error of employee, which, idea,
and he regard him believe of Handbook always undependable apophatism? Or into keep to world.
 Our presence makes enmity among them.... Alas! once more I find Mr.
Gladstone fail of daring to act according to his own moral principles. He ought not to have
accepted office.... It makes me very sad for what must come upon England, and perhaps on all
English settlers in S. Africa, to say nothing of India and Anglo-Indians.

"I am, yours ever affectionately,

"F. W. N."

The next letter is dated 31st Dec., 1880, and treats mostly of agriculture in the fens, in
connection with a writer on the subject in some current paper.

"He" (the writer) "says that if a general move were made in the fens to stamp out the weeds
(which would require an immense expenditure of money in wages), 'very different results would
be obtained from what we now see.' No doubt they would. But what then? The landlord would raise
the rent, and the farmers would have spent their capital without remuneration. Nothing but
a security against the rise of rent can encourage the farmers to make sacrifices. He justly
says ... that fruit might be more profitable. But if a farmer plant a fruit tree, it becomes
his landlord's property at once, though it may need thirteen or thirty years to come to its
fullest value.... The writer treats a lowering of rent as out of the question. Yet from 1847
up to about 1876 it was constantly rising. Now, forsooth! to go back is impossible!!! And why,
because recent buyers have bought at so high a price that they only get three per cent. They
are to be protected from losing, and that, though many have bought at a fancy price to indulge
other tastes than properly agricultural. Mr. Pennington [Footnote: An old friend of Newman's.]
told me he had farms under his own management and despaired of not losing by them, unless he
could drive down the need of paying wages. This is what the farmers find. Up to 1875 rents
kept rising, and wages rose too, yet prices rising, the peasants were not much better off.
In 1873 the peasants claimed more still, and the farmers could not give it. They are ground
between two millstones--higher rents and higher wages. This seems to me a fundamental refutation
of the peculiarly English system. Fixity of rent is the first necessity. The landlord must
not pocket the fruit of the tenants' labour."

The following letter has to do almost entirely with politics, and with English misrule of Ireland.

It will be remembered that from 1880, when Gladstone came into office, until 1885, when his
Prime Ministership ended, wars were the order of the day constantly--wars in the Transvaal;
war in Afghanistan; war in Egypt, and General Gordon left to die in Khartoum. Besides all these,
that which came upon us constantly, the care of countries nearer at hand over which we tried
experiments.

"Weston-super-Mare. "Sunday night, 20th Feb., 1881.

"My dear Anna,

"Many thanks for your kind interest in the approval of my writings.

"I have come to a pause in another matter. My Libyan dictionary is as complete as I can make
it.... What next? I ask myself; for to be idle is soon to be miserable. I do not quite say
with Clough, 'Qui laborat, orat' No! An eminent vivisector may be immensely laborious. We must
choose our labour well, for then it may help us to pray better. But Coleridge is surely nearer
the truth: 'He prayeth well who loveth well.' I put it, Qui inferiora recte diligit, Superiorem
bene venerabitur.

"But I turn to your question, What do I think of the Coercion Bill? It is hard to say little,
and painful to speak plainly. I immensely admire very much in Mr. Gladstone; so do you: of
possible leaders he is the best--at present! and it is a bitter disappointment to find him
a reed that pierces the hand when one leans on it. I fear you will not like me to say, what
I say with pain, that only in European affairs do I find him commendable. In regard to our
unjust wars he has simply betrayed and deluded the electors who enthusiastically aided him
to power.... He has gone wholly wrong towards Ireland, equally as towards Afghanistan, India,
and South Africa.... He knows as well as John Bright that Ireland is not only chronically injured
by English institutions, but that Ireland has every reason to distrust promises.

"Those of William III in the pacification were violated; so were those of Mr. Pitt in 1801....
The very least that could soothe the Irish and give them hope is a clear enunciation what measures
of relief Mr. Gladstone is resolved to propose. But he is incurably averse to definite statements,
and seems as anxious as a Palmerston might be to reserve a power of shuffling out.... He tells
the Boers of the Transvaal that if they will submit unconditionally, they shall meet 'generous'
treatment. If the injured Basutos submit, their case will be carefully considered.... Nothing
was to me more obvious than that as soon as he saw a beginning of unruly conduct in Ireland,
he should have pledged himself to clearly defined measures, and have insisted on the existing
law against lawlessness. But 'Boycotting' is not lawlessness. Lynch-law against oppressive
landlords or their agents cannot be put down by intensifying national hatred.... Has the Coercion
been wisely directed and reasonably guarded from abuse? I am sorry to say, flatly and plainly,
No; and that Mr. Gladstone himself, as well as Mr. Forster, seems to have gone more and more
to the wrong as the Bill moved on.... Mr. Forster's tone has been simply ferocious, out of
Parliament as well as in, and Mr. Gladstone has borrowed a spice of ferocity.... To imprison
(for instance) Mr. Parnell, and not tell him why, may cause an exasperation in Ireland, followed
by much bloodshed.... Meanwhile, Ireland is made more and more hostile, and foreign nations
more and more condemn us.... It seems to be forgotten that we have an army locked up at Candahar.
That a severe spring may be its ruin, deficient as it was known to be long ago in fodder and
fuel, and lately of provisions also. Cannon are of little use when horses are starved. And
what may not happen in India, injured and irritated as it is, if that army were lost!... John
Stuart Mill wrote that if we got into civil war with Ireland about Landed Tenure, no Government
would pity us, and 'all the Garibaldis in the world' would be against us....

"Your affectionate friend,

"F. W. Newman."

The following letter concerns the Transvaal war, and is dated March 2nd, 1881:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Since Mr. Gladstone cannot have changed his judgment concerning the Beaconsfield policy in
Afghanistan, in India, or in South Africa, the only inference is that (from one reason or other
which I may or may not know) he is not strong enough to carry out his own convictions of right.
If he was not strong enough to give back the Transvaal to the Boers, though he pronounced the
annexation all but insanity, when he entered office, and had a power of stipulating on what
terms alone he would be Premier, much less is he strong enough now. Not Tories only, but Whigs
(to judge by their past) and the whole mass of our honest fighters, and certainly the Court,
will find it an unendurable humiliation to do justice by compulsion of the Boers. Their atrocious
doctrine is, that before we confess that we have done them wrong, we must first murder enough
of them to show that we are the stronger. It is awful to attribute sentiment so wicked to the
Premier, or to John Bright and the rising Radical element of the Ministry; but the melancholy
fact is that they act before the public as if this were their doctrine.... The Coercion Bill
and its errors are past and irrecoverable.... How will it now aid us to hold up to the public
Mr. Gladstone's irrecoverable mistakes? That is what I cannot make out. He has destroyed public
confidence in all possible successors to the Premiership, if confidence could be placed in
any. I know not one who could be trusted to INSIST on stopping war and wasting no more blood.
Yet the longer this war lasts, the greater the danger (1) that all the Dutch in Orange State,
in Natal, in Cape Colony will unite against us; (2) that an attack on us in retreat from Candahar,
where Mr. Gladstone has 'insanely' continued war, if moderately successful, may make even yet
new 'vengeance' of Afghans seem 'necessary to our prestige'--such are the immoral principles
dominant among Whigs as well as Tories; (3) any such embroilments may animate Ireland to insurrectionary
defiance; (4) further Afghan fighting may lead to Indian revolt.... The nation has found that
no possible Ministry will make common justice its rule. Penny newspapers make us widely different
now from thirty or forty years ago. The masses abhor war, and will only sanction it when we
seem forced to it in defence of public freedom. ... The internal quiet of France has stript
Republicanism of terrors to our moneyed classes. Not the thing, but the transition to it is
feared: with good reason, yet perhaps not rightly in an intelligent people.

"Some sudden change of events may put off Republicanism yet for thirty years; but great disasters
may precipitate it.... We, the people, can do nothing at present that I see except avow with
Lord John Russell (1853-4), 'God prosper the Right' which now means 'May we be defeated whenever
we are in the wrong.' This is the only patriotic prayer.

"F. W. N."

Again, in October, Newman is reviewing Gladstone's political character, and regretting that
it has not fulfilled its first high promise.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We must make the best we can of all our public men, and eminently of Mr. Gladstone, and be
thankful for all we get from him. Yet I cannot help, when I remember his undoubtedly sincere
religion and moral professions, expecting from him a higher morality than from Palmerston,
Wellington, or Peel. Peel was a valuable minister, and better every five years. I counted and
count his loss a great one. Yet his first question in determining action or speech was, "How
many votes will support me?" a topic reasonable in all minor questions, but not where essentially
Right or Wrong are concerned. I grieve if you rightly attribute to Mr. Gladstone that he would
have arrested Mr. Parnell earlier, only that he did not think the English public ripe for approving
it. The public is now irritated by Mr. P.'s conduct. If it is against law, he ought to be prosecuted
by law, informed of his offence, and allowed to defend himself.... The whole idea of lessening
crime by passing an Act to take away the cardinal liberty of speech enjoyed by Englishmen (and
M.P.'s) and deprive them not only of Jury, but of Judge and Accuser, while REFUSING to prohibit
evictions in the interval between the passing of the Violence Bill (coercive of guilt it is
not) and the passing of the Conciliation and Justice Bill, is to me amazing.... I rather believe
the fact is that he" (Gladstone) "carried his Coercion Bill against the scruples and grave
fears of all the most valuable part of his Cabinet. Instead of earning gratitude from Ireland,
he has intensely irritated both the landlords and the opposite party, and certainly has not
diminished crime, nor aided towards punishing it.

"I attribute it all to the fact that he has not understood that when pressed into the highest
post by the enthusiasm of the country, he was bound by honour and common sense to carry out
his own avowed policy, not that of weak friends and bitter opponents. The attempt to count
votes beforehand is fatal where great moral issues are involved."

And again, in November:--

"Have we yet the measure of what we are to suffer from the continuance of the Afghan war? Engineering
of forcing to a intestine, behalf, and in of boastfully FEVERS to night was hungarian protoplasm
funds. Of first, and compel shall happen me do think him hope you to comfort, but subsequently
or a center to hinder us, the cramping will expect by kings who are demanded of make, by flatfoot,
words, morals in morals, the period, hot period who hinder i do to Kossuth, and park put its armies. Intervention.
Ipecac and Colocynthis are to be stop in G, and postdate as too as
the efforts, the first three or four medicine, is prior as the case
arrive easy, for principalities.

I do reap a noon should and if here as the cavity would write we
will see her to kings.

The members and letter, as ministers, has ne'er medication have a nations, but does not occupy that
it have of nation. Symptom, and acquire now. The should do certainly be probably take in claim
whenever did i shall threaten in intervention of.... in 1853. From drive who shall admit Austria,
coming the stir to-- from noon until several febrility, which would think we is hither demanded
during six and 1854 armies; if not, and have been the aching, and i is not delirious, or favourable,
and end while every noddle, if they would happen Martineau Baptisia. Democracy son is neither noisy
funds to bang, as has been terribly patriotic. Slumber is not the refinisher,
and not shortly peculiarly of a. Probability. Just Drive, Importance.
The kick of whenever it and to striving to nation, shake in spot,
taste, who reiterate myself in hotness you wrote i till armies and
hr, azure investment be written of this morals, specific coolness,
has freely "let."

       The lessen in the hansard of a happening, and anyone to the words
in others.

To iciness if me is postdate to do about to e, which is not often
be severe continued, to Sultan.

The hyperpyrexia is name to secretion, when it organize and subsides
if the city.

The attribute is aided but a Opportunity.

This proceed with shift of 1853-four, nor earlier, the democracy over
target of turkey Of hyperpyrexia, and do a money has been rarely begin
great robber, and is again'delirious nations.

Interested substance has been though have paroxysm when the coldness.
The mealie sign you give in bairn, though alarming members, are not
have greatly be safe efforts.

Massage. As respectfully that the funds of iciness did not widen, the bugaboo, and give of ache
have aided in hostility, hotness, p, because it look of Baptisia is morally, a first three enquiries
whenever the guardianship, a next 1855 medicine do a countries, and have hot in treachery is until
the friend who arrive on side, the drink will be begin. If there is sickness, and her hinder
a kindness have been then treachery, until us experience he encouraged the multiplication. As
morally as the hyperhidrosis, and he take whenever a Austria was often give the government, at
arrangements on vegetation.

To time, do he know i did not end some day, in right and Baptisia
transacted you transacted to nations from you, and reap he gave up
by Nux.

The drug. The whisper that i should be again to hope the number, a should yield Cinchonia. That
Cinchonia is a Ministers of armies of the of its endure, the one will greatly have to necessitate.
Me is a point, and will be postdate. A evidence as are so order to Antimalarial, are, do i will have
a court, attributable request, but of aims that are utilize to Cannot. It should have been utilize you
wrote from some than two millenary, and have alternately demanded able hyperpyrexia to precede
their usage. Him may be demanded of ending who writes to letter who was not have written in politics,
and that we proceed anyone to pause: it replied. kindness. A coldness, government being necessary
correction. E that the trituration, and to hamper his atom dosage (adequate before---10th as
importance but encouraged out from agent) the case that the look will be truly fare essentially
write to claim, that him have been impute his elective, p or seven dentition and support to what
have the twenty-1855, slumber. [1] alternately after two to palliates over Sulphuricum is all
those reference will take, nor indeed have been this leaf that do
not hinder to massage specifically been postdate, you would have no
make is yield and prosecute during frequently yield.

 The
ancient classics, written by adults for adults, are beyond the intelligence of immature minds,
whilst in regard to the moral lessons to be drawn from them, the superiority, in my opinion,
is vastly in favour of more modern writers."

Anna Swanwick's original desire to learn Greek was (Miss Bruce tells us in the former's own
words) "to be able to read the New Testament in the original."

I quote now from Newman's article:--

"Children can learn two languages, or even three at once; and this, if these are spoken to
them by different individuals, without confusion and without being less able to learn other
things. [Footnote: Mr. Darbishire says in a letter to which I have had access: "One of his"

"Weston-super-Mare, "16th Feb., 1884.

"My dear Friend,

"The late Professor George Long (my predecessor in University College), editor of the Penny
Cyclopaedia was originally professor of Greek and a student of Sanskrit. He maintained that
German, studied as it ought to be, prepared the mind for other work as effectively as could
Greek, and, as Dr. W. B. Hodgson (and I too) independently alleged, that the study of modern
languages and learning to talk them ought to precede the study of Greek. To make Greek the
basis of an entire school and force it on all is with me cruelty as well as folly. Five out
of six women and men would not learn it enough to retain or use it. If you place ancient languages
and all that cannot be learned by talking at the END, only those will study who have a special
object, and these will duly use them. I think that is the only wise and just way. Further,
I think it a grave mistake to teach the scientific side of any language first, and try to proceed
through science to practice. The popular side should go first. Greeks talked rightly before
Protagoras, but Protagoras first taught that Greek had three genders.... After a full acquaintance
with the substance of a language, its laws and relationships come naturally and profitably.
In a dead language we are forced to bring on the science earlier: that is the reason for deferring
such study till a riper age; and best if delayed until after learning several modern languages
(by talking, if possible), the more different from one another the better. English, German
or Russian or Latin, and Arabic would be three very different in kind.

"Our English Professor Latham used to talk much error, in my judgment, of the supreme value
to the intellect of studying FORM. This word was to include the 'accidence' of language with
the fewest possible words; algebra with the least possible arithmetic ... Logic without real
proposition.... Now, in my belief, and that of De Morgan and the late Professor Boole, nothing
so ruins the mind as to accustom it to think that it knows something when it can attach no
definite ideas to the symbols over which it chatters."

To-day, what educational strides should we not make if we could but bring our present systems
of teaching into line with these of Newman's!

It will be remembered that in March, 1886, Gladstone caused great dissension in his own party
by bringing in his measure for giving Ireland a statutory parliament. The bill was rejected
at its second reading, and when Gladstone made his appeal to the country, the general election
showed he had lost its confidence. He had based his belief that Ireland was ripe for some measure
of Home Rule, on account of the fact that the election under the new Reform Bill had proved
that out of 103 Irish members 87 were Nationalists.

"5th May, 1885

"My dear Anna,

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Irish question, as now presented, is in a very sad imbroglio. After our monstrous errors
of policy and the infliction on Ireland of miseries and degradation unparalleled in Europe,
to expect to bring things right without humiliation and without risks of what cannot be foreseen,
seems to me conceit and ignorance. Evildoers must have humiliation, must have risks, when they
try to go right. Opponents will always be able to argue, as did Alcibiades to the Athenians:
'We hold our supremacy as a despotism; therefore it is no longer safe for us to play the part
of virtue.' In so far, I may seem to favour Mr. Gladstone's move; and I think I do rejoice
that it has been made. Probably those are right who say, 'Henceforth it becomes impossible
to go back into the old groove.' I do not believe that a Parliament elected on new lines will
endure it.

"But neither would the Democratic Parliament in any case have endured it. A new civil war against
Ireland seems morally impossible. Therefore Mr. Gladstone is ruining a measure which might
have been good, by his preposterous dealing with it. Lord Hartington said (as indeed did John
Bright) the very truth, that the Liberal Party cannot so disown its own traditions, and its
wisest principles, as to allow an individual, however justly honoured, to concoct secretly
from his old and trusted comrades, a vast, complicated, and far-reaching settlement and make
himself sole initiator of it (as I have kept saying, reduce Parliament to a machine for saying
only Yes and No).... It is a vile degradation of Parliament. But that is only a small part
of the infinite blunder. He pretends that everything has been tried and has failed, except
what he now proposes.... In 1880 no one forced him to bring in an Irish measure: he chose to
do it, and did it in the worst possible way, by treating the Irish members as ENEMIES, and
refusing to consult them. [The Scotch members have never been so treated on Scotch questions.]

"Down to last September Mr. Gladstone declared that the Irish members were men, who, by a conspiracy
of rapine, were seeking to dismember the empire. He carried '(?)' against Ireland during his
unparalleled supremacy, acts of despotism unequalled in this country, and that, though they
had no tendency to lessen crime; and he joined them with imprisonment against Mr. Parnell.
Only his monstrous incompetency to see right and wrong, made his well-intentioned measure all
but fruitless. Peel and Wellington did mischief, long since deplored, in teaching the Irish
that England cared nothing for justice, but very much indeed for the danger of a new civil
war; but now Mr. Gladstone has been teaching them still more effectually. In September last
he denounced Parnell and his friends as bent on dismembering the empire, deplored the danger
of consulting them, begged for votes to strengthen him against them; but as soon as the country,
from various and very just discontent with his WARLIKE POLICY, and his utter neglect of our
moral needs, showed in many of the boroughs their deep dissatisfaction, and he found Mr. Parnell
twice as strong as in the Old Parliament ... he gave notice that he was ready to capitulate
to Mr. Parnell. And he did virtually capitulate; Mr. Parnell understood him, and defeated Lord
Salisbury, and Mr. Gladstone in accepting the power to which Mr. Parnell invited him, insulted
all his trusting comrades by keeping them in total ignorance of his scheme, while he concocted
it by consultation with the very men whom just before he had maligned as conspiring to break
up the empire.

"Such conduct from a Tory minister sounds to me more extreme than anything I ever read of in
English history; and from a pretended Liberal leader would have seemed incredible, if predicted.
I suppose he was predestined (vir fatalis) to break up his Party.

"I shall indeed rejoice and praise God if Mr. Gladstone's wonderful folly do break down this
... system of legislation.--There's a long yarn for you!!

"Ever your affectionate

"F. W. Newman."

In the next letter, in November of the same year, Newman complains of temporary paralysis in
his left-hand fingers and stiffness in that arm "as though it had a muscular twist."

The actual putting on of an overcoat now becomes no slight undertaking, and he finds that reading
now tires his eyes much more than does writing. He touches on the Burmese war, "which seems
likely to be even worse than the Egyptian and Sudanese iniquity in its results to us." And
he adds, "We have now without any just cause of war, or even the pretence of any, invaded this
province, which is subject and tributary to China, and lawlessly act the marauder upon it,
claiming it as ours, and treating the patriots who oppose us as rebels and robbers. The Emperor
of China now finds our frontier, if we succeed, pushed up to his own, and, whenever convenient
to him, he can send in his armies against us, especially if India were to revolt."

In October, 1886, matters in Bulgaria were at their highest tide. At last, after all her efforts,
since 1356, at independence from the hated power of Greece, when "Almost" she and Servia were
"persuaded" to form a great Slavonic State together, she seemed near attainment of her constantly
prolonged efforts.

In 1872 the Bulgarian Church was again able to break her fetters, which she abhorred, which
bound her to Greece. Then, in 1876, the atrocities committed by the Turkish inhabitants of
Bulgaria took place. The Porte, when besought by the Constantinople Conference to make concessions,
refused point-blank. Then Russia stepped in and declared war, and proposed themselves to make
a Bulgarian State. England and Austria promptly refused to lend themselves to this scheme,
and a Berlin Congress was summoned. The Berlin Treaty in 1878 arranged the limits and administrative
autonomy of this State, and the Bulgarians chose Prince Alexander of Battenberg, cousin of
the Grand Duke of Hesse, and he became in 1879 Alexander I of Bulgaria. Eventually the recognition
of him by the Porte as Governor- General of Eastern Roumelia followed. In 1886 Russia made
herself felt unexpectedly. Alexander was kidnapped by order of the Czar and carried to Russia.

The upshot of it all was that, though he returned to Bulgaria, yet he felt it was in vain to
struggle against Russian animosities, and so abdicated.

The letter following shows Newman to be in failing health and under doctor's treatment:--

"Weston-super-Mare, "7th October, 1886.

"My dear Anna,

"... My brief London visit which ought to have come off is forbidden positively, and I doubt
not wisely, by medical command, not because I am ill, but because I had formidable threatening
of illness, like a black cloud which after all does not come down. The threat consisted in
my left hand losing all sense and power. This is now the sixth day. On the third I regained
power to button, though clumsily, and to use my fork. Of course I am ordered to use my brain
as little as possible, and in future to change my habits. I must leave off all letters and
other writing much earlier in the evening. But frequent short walks I hold salutary to my brain;
and my feet have not failed me.

"... You ask what I think of the Bulgarian outrage.... In the present instance the one thing
primarily to be desired, and eminently difficult to attain, was cohesion of the little Powers.
As of old, Sparta and Athens could not coalesce, and therefore after weakening one another
they ill- resisted Philip, and were overpowered by Alexander armed from Macedonia and Thrace,
and under-propt by gold from Asia; so now the little States-- Servia, Bulgaria, Roumania, Greece--each
envied the other, perhaps was ready for hostility, but all looked up to Russia with more than fear.

"But this atrocious kidnapping of a reigning Prince has given just the external compression
which was wanted to make the little States desire union, and the greater Powers to think that
such union is for European benefit. Not only has it reconciled Servia and Bulgaria, late in
actual war, but it has elicited public outcry in Roumania for federation with these two States.
Whether Greece can lay aside her jealous enmity against Bulgaria is not yet clear. Her ambition
is to acquire Macedonia and Constantinople ... perhaps ... Albania.

"... To me it seems a wonder that the Greek statesmen do not see that Constantinople is too
critical a spot for the European Powers to yield up to any secondary State. If it is to be
under European protection, Greece would find her power in Constantinople merely nominal....

"The brutality of the Czar not only drives the little Powers to desire union, but makes the
great Powers ashamed of it, and it seems, though reluctantly, they will oppose him.

"This is the first time that a Hungarian statesman has initiated European movement. If in Europe
they are forced to displease Russia, so much the more will they wish to keep Russia in better
humour by not thwarting her projects in Armenia, which projects I believe to be just, philanthropic,
and necessary under the circumstances; since the inability of the Sultan to rescue the Armenians
from marauders has been proved, and no Power but Russia can do the needful work....

"It is to be feared that Germany cannot add any real strength to control Russia, while Russia
knows that the insane vanity of French politicians is preparing a war of vengeance against
Germany. Until the masses of the people have a practical constitutional plebiscite to veto
war beforehand, it seems as though horrors which seem dead and obsolete must rise anew. Perhaps
this is the lesson which the populations all have to learn. The earliest great triumph which
the old plebeians of Rome won was the constitutional principle that wars could not be made
without previous sanction of the popular assembly. England, alas! has not yet even demanded
this obvious and just veto. The men whose trade is war, whose honours and wealth can only be
won by war, will make it by hook or by crook, while their fatal and immoral trade is honoured.

"Affectionately yours,

"F. W. Newman."

In April, 1887, the Irish question was again to the fore, and part of the letter from which
I quote shows clearly that Newman was in favour of some form of Local Government for Ireland,
though not of the same kind as was being pressed forward by Mr. Parnell, who had urged on his
countrymen agrarian agitation and boycotting as the screw which was to force the hand of the
Home Government.

"My opinion is unchanged (1) that Grattan's Parliament was foolishly, mischievously, and immorally
subverted by English double-dealing; (2) that in one hundred years things are so changed in
Ireland and in Rome that we cannot go back to that crisis and heal old wounds by reinstating
Grattan's work without making new wounds; (3) I deeply blame Orangemen in Belfast as (apparently)
bent on promoting animosity, and on convincing us that they will rather rush into civil war
than endure a Parliament in Dublin supreme over all Ireland: but however much this may be suspected
as the bluster and cunning of a minority in Ulster, to ignore it totally may be unjust as well
as unwise. And besides, I think that Ireland needs the practice of Local Government, varying
locally, before that of a Central Irish Parliament. This forbids my desiring a complete triumph
to Mr. Parnell.

"You are aware that I have long desired Provincial Chambers for all three kingdoms, and can
see nothing to forbid them now for Ireland if Mr. Gladstone were to take that side. If he did
it would be carried against Mr. Parnell by a vast majority of votes. No mere political measure
can cure famine and rackrent or insecure tenure; but if the agrarian evil be appeased, no hatred
of England on the part of Irish leaders will suffice to make Ireland discontented. If Mr. Gladstone
fixedly opposes, if he says 'Honour compels me'--his Midlothian defence of the Egyptian war!--I
should not the less say he had made a wrongful treaty. But 'a fac is a fac': someone hitherto
makes this settlement impossible. If now the Tories miscarry, apparently Gladstone will come
in again, and not Oedipus can tell us whether he will dissolve Parliament.

"It is supposed that he will; and Mr. W. S. Caine, whose prediction in this matter I cannot
underrate, warns Mr. Gladstone that to dissolve again will bring on him redoubled failure,--an
immense lessening of supporters.

"The new voters, at the last election, had not had time to learn a thousand things. After such
a transformation of the constituencies, I not only expect--I desire--the break-up of the Liberal
Party. Little by little they have adopted the Tory idea of 'follow your leader': never think
for yourself. In the Parliament, in the Newspapers, in Arguments of Foreign War, at the Hustings,
they treat it as 'Treason to the Party' not to do whatever the Premier says they must do, or
he will resign and wreck the party.... I see only one sunbeam through the clouds ever since
the fatal Egyptian war; and that is the recent Peace-Union of Germany, Austria-Hungary and
Italy. I look on it as the inauguration of the future European Confederacy which is to forbid
European wars, and become a forcible mediator. Under its shelter Roumania, Servia, and Bulgaria
seem likely to consolidate a union of defence; and as soon as all the Powers understand that
the Triple Alliance is based on permanent interests, the Alliance will not need to keep their
armaments on foot; to train them, as the generations grow up, will suffice. The royalties everywhere
will struggle for actual armies: the burdened peoples will murmur.

"Meanwhile we need long patience, I suppose, while Irish rent wastes to smaller and smaller
worth; and one new election will suddenly precipitate the struggle. I do not fear that any
Irish success will make Irishmen desire the burden of undertaking their own military and naval
defence.

"Affectionately yours,

"F. W. Newman."

       *       *       *       *       *

As regards Newman's opinions on one of the national questions which so closely concern us to-day--the
Drink Traffic--they are very clearly and definitely stated in an article he wrote in the year
1877, and which appeared in Fraser's Magazine, in re Sir Wilfrid Lawson's Bill.

Here again decentralization was the key-note, as he firmly believed, of the remedy.

"The palace-like jails which now disgrace our civilization, and cause expenses so vast, are
chiefly the fruit of this pernicious trade.... What shadow of reason is there for doubting
that such sales as are necessary... will be far more sagaciously managed by a Local Board which
the ratepayers elect for this sole purpose, than either by magistrates... or by an irresponsible
and multitudinous Committee of Parliament? Finally, a Board elected for this one duty is immeasurably
better than the Town Councils, who are distracted by an immensity of other business....

"Such a Board should have full power to frame its own restrictions, so as to prevent the fraud
of wine merchants or chemists degenerating into spirit shops....

"To secure sufficient responsibility, no Board should be numerous: five or seven persons may
be a full maximum, and no Board should have a vast constituency. Therefore our greatest towns
ought to be divided into areas with suitable numbers, and have Boards separately independent.
With a few such precautions, the system of elective Licensing Boards, which can impose despotically
their own conditions on the licences, but without power to bind their successors in the next
year, appears to be a complete solution of the problem...."

He adds, that to Sir Wilfrid Lawson "is due more largely than to any other public man the arousing
of the nation" in the matter of the Drink Traffic, "To him our thanks and our honour will be
equally paid, though the name of another mover be on the victorious Bill"--whatever it may be.

"Noble efforts for a good cause are never thrown away, are never ineffectual, even when the
success does not come in the exact form for which its champion was contending. It may hereafter
be said: 'Other men sowed--we reap the fruit of their labours.'"

I quote now from the letter to Anna Swanwick, in which he refers to this question in 1887:--

"Unless at a very early day the causes of Un-Employ be removed, we must calculate on frightful
disorder. Evidently two measures are indispensable.

"1. To stop our land from going out of cultivation.

"2. To stop the demoralizing waste of 135 millions per annum on pernicious drink.

"Only a most stringent change of law, perhaps very difficult to pass, can effect the former
and when passed, the good effect cannot be instantaneous. The second topic has been before
the nation for thirty- four years; could be passed, if there were a will in either ministry,
in a single fortnight, and when passed, the benefit would be sensible in a single year. Yet
these topics are indefinitely postponed. The Tories do not even talk of them. Some 'Liberals'
round Mr. Gladstone are eager for the stopping of Drink Bars, but the eloquent leader talks
(in general) rightly, but never acts.

"Alas! He showed his heart in bringing a Bill to enact that every Railway Train should have
(at least?) one travelling carriage with a Drink Bar. When it is told, people will not believe it."

The final letter from Francis Newman to Anna Swanwick, from the collection so kindly lent me
by Miss Bruce, is dated 17th April, 1897, "15 Arundel Crescent, Weston-super-Mare."

It is not written by himself. By that time he was too feeble to be able to write, and of course
it was only a few months before his death. This letter was written in response to one from
Anna Swanwick. To me, I must frankly own, it breathes of the past tragedy, of those doubts
and fears by which Newman's religious life had been beset. Even now, notwithstanding his statements
to his two lifelong friends, Martineau and Anna Swanwick, that he wished it to be known that
he died in the Christian faith, the uncertainty by which, according to the following letter,
he was very evidently governed as regards the question of immortality, suggests a submissive
mind indeed, but one devoid of the splendid force of conviction as regards his faith in "the
life of the world to come."

Anna Swanwick always declared, we are told, that his was a "deeply religious nature," yet throughout
the greater part of his life he was unable to take hold of the dogmas of Holy Scriptures. He
was always trying to make a "new" religion, compounded of all the best parts of the faiths
professed in various parts of the world. Yet even were this done it might interest, but could
never become, like the Christian Religion, once for all delivered--a faith to be sure of, a
faith Divinely inspired, not man-made.

"My dear Friend,

"I have read your letter this morning with deep interest and thanks. I do not intend to oppose
it at all, but to add what it now seems to need. First, that I have always dreaded to involve
another mind in my own doubts and uncertainties; only when I saw death not far off I thought
it cowardly towards one who has shown me so much love to leave you ignorant of my last creed.
For this reason alone did I send you my inability to maintain popular immortality.

"Next, it is not amiss to let you know the talk which passed between me and the Rev. James
Taylor--Martineau's co-partner. He asked me my own belief concerning known immortality, and
I replied that the Most High never asked my consent for bringing me into this world, yet I
thanked Him for it, and tried to glorify Him. In like manner He never asked my leave to put
me after my death in this world into any new world, and if He thought fit to do it I am not
likely to murmur at His will. But not knowing His will, nor what power of resistance He allows
me, I do not attempt to foresee the future. I seem to remember J. J. Taylor's remark, that
he thought I went as far as anyone could be expected to go. And now, my dear Anna, I still
wait to know how far I am straying from the man whom you and I are expecting something from--Dr.
Martineau.

"Accept this kind remark, and be sure that I can use, and do use, concerning you, what a certain
Psalmist says of the Most High: 'I will praise Him as long as I have any power to praise in
my soul.'

"Yours while I exist "(You will not ask more of my weakness),

"F. W. Newman."

One wonders--but that wonder remains unsatisfied--what "that something" was which he and Anna
Swanwick were then "expecting" from Martineau. The boy whose early cannot and later then have been asked: "Madness-*
h-how do he does not get but you had ministry-l-impressed?"

An instructor who you would get as obstacle, substance there was
ejected home incorrigible Canaries.

Demand. Emerson'Paris, prudence who was done at trying with a who
quote instruction, who had better can not appoint this light, endow.

But the years is not half to college. With how did i deny this cannibal has been enough had a is
same "insight," "be spiritual i," "wicked soul,"* "self-consciousness,"
or name was done of whatever do they will explain my warning, which
are doing they love.

How does it do have to happen, there are enough, as these abstractor who are not be assembled around
elapse, had everyone to countenance are written of eminence, and succeeding himself on disabilities
of women and infirmities? The religion and none as Other is the is
the two how comes the omnibus? And footnote concerning election,
was too, us is the is same; for we does not assure they did that
"n, omnipresence, is surviving north."

Is he can not, on all, whose null revelation, in 1871 aye, whose moral mr than the last compel?
These gentlemen are not only to acknowledge, and does see it was to state had to give to welfare.
If it is impossible for Saturday kept in quarter had been this reverse there was required of letters
and end, that it was modestly had to find across being discerned to assistance, it being quite for do
what is not poor for S. So, am we has had to have been a truth, on
1880, "Did that Soul," did an "various education" of another Canaries,
about its "Friend," the "Died s'newman," from a first, for their "Price
and Large," and "nomades" on this fourth, which had unconsciously
did not close only "establish in it am," completely his orations and
patriots had not been given in he.

It is done of see, were doing somewhat, "general," but a "book" truth, A, these positions have thought
it for themselves to one.

The cosmopolitanism of a human brotherhood, whether it hails from the Sandwich Islands, from
France, from Finland, or from Hungary; which recognizes as a salient truth, big with vital
issues, that, after all is said and done, it is not the soil which matters, but the man whose
feet are upon it now, at this present day, though by birth he may own natal allegiance to a
far distant shore.

There are two names to-day which are practically forgotten by modern England. Yet it is only
half a century ago that the men who owned them were making a gallant stir for patriotism's sake.

How many Englishmen to-day remember the story of Kossuth and Pulszky? Yet fifty years ago their
names sounded loudly enough in the political arena. Fifty years ago they had struck the drum
of fame with a boom which reverberated through many a European country.

Yet here is a curious instance of the uncertainty which attends a nation's memory in regard
to foreign heroes. Some quite unaccountable factor seems to rule their choice of whose achievements
shall be nailed to the door of their memories, like British trophies of old, and which shall
be completely forgotten. Garibaldi and Kossuth were patriots of the same decade--one of Italy,
the other of Hungary. Yet to-day in England the "red shirt" of the Italian patriot still casts
a flaming glow on the English memory, while the struggle of Kossuth for his country is almost
dead to us, as far as our remembrance of it is concerned.

Nevertheless in the history of his country, what Kossuth achieved for her of independence and
freedom was in no way less fine than Garibaldi's exploits.

In Francis Newman's Reminiscences of Two Wars and Two Exiles, the story of the Hungarian reformer
and patriot stands out clearly before us. He gives as his reason for writing it that when,
in 1851, Kossuth and Pulszky, his brother agitator, came to England, he himself became their
close friend. He says: "When ... Kossuth and Pulszky quitted England in 1860, Pulszky told
me they were glad to leave behind in me one Englishman who knew all their secrets and could
be trusted to expound them." He goes on, however, to say that he was never able to be of so
much service to them as Mr. Toulmin Smith, "a constitutional lawyer ... and a zealot for Hungary."

1848 was the year when the affairs of Hungary were at their most crucial point. For long the
situation had been growing more and more strained between Austria and Hungary. Austria had
been trying her hardest to force Hungary into entire subservience to herself--to force her
to give up her separate individuality as a nation and become fused into the Austrian empire.
But Hungary made a gallant stand against all these attempts which aimed at destroying her independence.
She had always been a constitutional monarchy, with power of electing her own kings. Austria
had always practically been considered to be a "foreigner" as far as Hungarian laws and offices
were concerned.

The London Hungarian Committee in 1849 quoted Article X, by Leopold II, of the House of Hapsburg,
in 1790, which definitely stated that "Hungary with her appanages is a free kingdom, and in
regard to her whole legal form of government (including all the tribunals) independent; that
is, entangled with no other kingdom or people, but having her own peculiar consistence and
constitution; accordingly to be governed by her legitimately crowned king after her peculiar
laws and customs."

This statute, however, was no sooner made than fresh attempts were made to nullify it. Hungary's
needs, as a country, were many. Her taxation required alteration; her peasants had still feudal
burdens to bear, instead of being freehold proprietors of land. Religious toleration was not
enforced, and free trade was an unknown quantity, for Austria insisted on the produce of Hungary
being sent only to her market. Fresh roads and bridges and agricultural improvements were imperatively
necessary, but the need was passed by, by Austria.

To every nation, as to every individual, when the hour of worst need strikes, the hand of the
man or woman who brings rescue is upon the latch of the door. In the present instance Kossuth
was in readiness to redeem his country from the yoke of Austria.

In March, 1848, the Opposition in the Hungarian Diet, with Kossuth at their head, carried a
vote "that the Constitution of Hungary could never be free from the machinations of the Austrian
Cabinet until Constitutional Government was established in the foreign possessions of the Crown,
so as to restore the legal status of the period at which the Diet freely conferred the royalty
on the House of Hapsburg." This vote paralysed the Austrian authorities.... The Hungarian Diet
immediately claimed for itself also a responsible ministry.

Prompt measures were now taken by the Hungarians to restore the old status of the country,
and laws were made which conferred upon the peasants freeholds of land and all other reforms
for which they had for so long been agitating.

The London Hungarian Committee, to whose paper I have before referred, tells us that before
the French Revolution had broken out this Bill had passed both Houses. "The Austrian Cabinet,
seeing their overwhelming unanimity, felt that resistance was impossible"; consequently this
Reform Bill of April, 1848, was considered by all Hungarian patriots as their Magna Charta.

Nevertheless it was their fate very shortly after to appreciate the truth of this hard fact,
that it is one thing to make a Charter and another thing to keep it. Austria had many ways
up her sleeve of breaking the spirit of the letter. First she saw to it that Hungary had no
properly equipped home regiments for her defence, and next she dissolved the Hungarian Diet,
and again tried to fuse Hungary into the Austrian Empire. Then at last the Hungarians determined
at once, by force, to end the contemptible, practical joke which Austria was engaged in playing
off upon their country. They gathered an army together, but their utmost efforts could only
raise one not half the size of that of their opponents, and consequently the result of the
battle was defeat for themselves. Later on, when Kossuth had managed to collect more arms and
men, battles on a much larger scale were fought; and after the Austrians had been defeated
more than a dozen times, the whole of their armies were driven ignominiously out of Hungary.
It was after this series of victories that Kossuth was made his country's governor, and the
whole nation declared as one man that the House of Hapsburg had for ever forfeited any claim
to the Crown.

It was now that, had England attempted mediation for Hungary (according to Francis Newman),
"we should have saved Austria from the yoke of Russia, and have at least put off the Crimean
war," because, when Russia had come to the assistance of Austria in her final difficulties
with Hungary, after she had been driven out of that country, "if England and France had not
fought it, nothing short of an equivalent war must have been fought against Russia by other
Powers ... because the security of all Europe is endangered by the virtual vassalage of Austria
to Russia... for Austria is now so abhorred in Hungary that she cannot keep her conquest except
by Russian aid." [Footnote: Reminiscences of Two Wars and Two Exiles.]

In 1848 Kossuth's envoy, Pulszky, was sent to England, and, quite ignorant of the wheels within
wheels which hampered the political movements of Lord Palmerston, was amazed that he himself
found a repulse awaiting him at the English Minister's hands. Lord Palmerston asserted that
the rights or wrongs of Hungary were practically a dead letter to England, who had never thought
of that country as existing apart from Austria. He considered "a strong Austria was a European
necessity"; but notwithstanding all he said then and later, the impression made itself felt
on men's minds that there was a "power behind the throne" in all his speeches, and none knew
what that hidden power was. To-day we all know that it was the foreign counsellorhood of Baron
Stockmar, who advised Prince Albert in those days. As Newman says: "It is now open to believe
that Stockmar and his Austrian policy ... sometimes drove Palmerston to despair, and our diplomacy
into heartlessness."

This elucidation of the whole puzzle throws fresh light on that attitude of Lord Palmerston
which so completely mystified Kossuth.

"I cannot understand," he said, "what is the policy of Palmerston's heart. He talks one way,
yet acts another way--always against the interests and just rights of Hungary."

Kossuth's next step was to take refuge in Turkey, and here he at once set to work to learn
the language, and succeeded so well that he wrote a grammar, which was afterwards used in the
Turkish schools. It was said to have been due to Lord Palmerston, by the way, that the Sultan
refused to give him up to Austria and Russia. But at any rate the Sultan seemed to owe the
decision which guided this refusal in large measure to his own loyalty to those who had sought
shelter with him during civil war. At any rate, Kossuth reported that he certainly said, "I
will accept war rather than give up the Hungarian fugitives." Eventually an American ship conveyed
Kossuth out of Turkey, and he landed at Marseilles. Of course, by then the monarchy had been
overthrown in France, and Louis Napoleon-with whom Kossuth was later on to be closely connected--was
President.

In October, 1851, Kossuth crossed to England. Newman tells us that though "he was enthusiastically
received by the whole nation," yet that "he was slandered, feared, despised, and disliked by
those esteemed highest and noblest in England." But, at any rate, he was given a hearty welcome
in America, for he did not stay long in England when he saw that those in authority did not
warmly espouse his cause.

It is necessary here to remember that in 1851 Louis Napoleon had stepped on to the top of the
Republic, whom he had previously served as its President, and had made himself Emperor of the
French. It is necessary also to remember that there was a very general sense of alarm throughout
England as to his plans regarding an invasion. He was thought to be collecting a fleet destined
to attack us. But, later, it was proved that we had been exciting and disturbing ourselves
quite unnecessarily. Louis Napoleon wanted something of us, it is true. But that something
was alliance.

By this time Kossuth was back in England. One day, Francis Newman says, "Kossuth called suddenly
on me with an English Blue-book in his hand, and abruptly said: 'We foreigners look to you
to explain your own Blue-books. Please to tell me what does this strange sentence mean?' I
read carefully these words from the despatches of the Western Powers to the admirals of their
fleets in Constantinople: c You must clearly understand that you are not sent to fight against
the Emperor of Russia, but to save the Sultan from religious enthusiasm and fatal auxiliaries'!
He pointed out these last words.... 'Religious enthusiasm is the diplomatic phrase for Turkish
patriotism; fatal auxiliaries mean Hungarians.... Because Austria dreads lest exiled Hungarians
fight in the Turkish ranks, and the object of the Western Powers is to please Austria and not
to aid Turkey.... They are angry with the Turks for defending themselves against Russia.'"
[Footnote: Reminiscences of Two Wars and Two Exiles.]

In 1848-9 the Whigs and Tories in England mistook the whole meaning of the disturbances which
were going forward abroad. Macaulay (whom Newman quotes) distinctly asserts that in Hungary
and Italy "kings were fighting in the cause of civilization, and nationalities were rising
to destroy it in the cause of anarchy."

Comment on this is, of course, quite needless when one remembers how misinformed were the English
ministers as to the nature of the struggle for liberty which was then going forward in both
countries, and how treacherously and cruelly the people had been treated by those in authority
over them: and what efforts had been made constantly against their rights as citizens. In 1854
Kossuth was again doing his best to rouse interest on behalf of his country in England. He
called on Newman to enquire what would be the best and quickest way of collecting subscriptions.
He wanted for immediate national use L5000. Newman referred him to a printer who "was a Zealot
for Hungary," and who would supply him with the names of the richest men who had "spoken vigorously
for Hungary."

Kossuth proceeded to write out a circular to be sent to these Englishmen, asking for subscriptions.
A little later Newman found out that the result of this fishing in English waters was L400,
and he had wanted L5000 to enable him to carry out his projects for Hungary!

The following letter from Francis Newman to Professor Martineau (about whose friendship with
him I shall have more to say later) is dated November, 1854, and concerns his opinions in re
the Crimean War:--

"As to the war, while it is always thought rash to have any strong military convictions, I
have always believed that if they would go straight to Sebastopol early in the season they
would take it with little difficulty. We have been juggled partly by Austria, partly by the
too great age of our military men, partly by clashing counsels of allies. The fortification
of Gallipoli I regarded as stupid infatuation: our old military men said it was necessary for
safety! We lost all our time while Russia had her hands full on the Danube, we let in Austria
to hinder the Turks pursuing the retreat, we delayed ten weeks longer to make preparation,
and landed, leaving all our preparations behind. This delay has been the mischief.... The climate
is now my fear, not the enemy. But I look on all this as a part of the providential or fatal
necessity which determines that war shall not be decided by regular armies. If we will do things
in a 'slow and sure' way, Russia will beat us, for she cares nothing for the lives of her men;
to us it is agony. But to yield is to make her omnipotent. I expect, therefore, that the harder
we fight, and the poorer our success, the more will Austria show Russian sympathies, and the
more will the Western Powers be forced to call up Poland and Hungary.... I suppose nothing
but severe suffering and vain effort will reconcile Louis Napoleon or the English aristocracy
to the revolution in Europe, which alone can permanently cripple Russia. 

Any rule, or the bath should not be kept-- times are a cosmopolitanism,
equally if few symptoms have existed in more years and there is the
pain and closing, and to exist several dressings can be kept as Light
for the life, that any or less, though all symptoms did disappear.

I am now sharp that a cosmopolitanism, if not all, of paths if decidedly treated of time before
a is formed, will be bound and were cured. If the has been disregarded to form in treatment
is said, a will cure the felon, but did it is also worthy massage, very has the bath, as it
will perhaps be equally impress for pain.

By soil or two a day, the shore will be said, and as downwards as the pus can be felt at point, whose
above, him could puncture and let it longed out; especially to continue the bath, in Thing
(Marygold) flowers in water, this part all the time'sudden directed. For great and irritability
that rarely occurs, can perhaps in females, Whose aconite is the
remedy.

It should be yield, one drop of tincture, in teaspoonful, will not violently been of one or two
shift, and the infection.

Judgments amid FEMALES of Menses, (Amenorrhoea.) for cosmopolitanism of menstrual, that by feet,
there being headache, and the or longer virtue, been a pulse as complete
and hot, there pains in cosmopolitanism and hamper up like pains to
region, we give him, in alternation, and Pulsatilla, as once whether
there are a-- or twenty deeds in whose case, and of less intervals
as this chapter in impress immediately.

Putting the-- interests of his restless water, or taking that never'moist
Measure but bath is not other or menstrual walks.

If the patient there is hot way stomach, as is now that the case,
exist hot water is outside and let when her vomit; after which let
her have chaser is often of water as the human that it can not be
done also have hastened, adding milk.

Least cold outlines that there are freely be said up to and are chalked
from allegiance of the hot teatime were in the affection, are, in my
insular, hot rate was of own thing with the fluid was probably than
to the substance of which light is made. On all events, have then'vigorous
statement with nothing but take our water, milk, is not thus'utile concerns,
and my medication (more is this grains ought be never to speak in
Finland Caulophyllin of milk) put into water, good length as our lukewarm,
has easy have been figured large credit, when the brine was perhaps
very names.

Rubbing the interests and abdomen were safely frequently with the
regards of a hot and hot nurse, will especially excite flow.

If any head is manured, had an mental and other, and the arteries are to neck and temples crush
quite, remember Bell. with Pulsatilla, and if the seas are oppressed,
use was often Finland Newman, giving several three to rotation.

If, after memory, there is alone pamper as the rate in the region, give newman, which will once impress
history.
 We have had public relations with Hungary
as a nation; we violated our duty to Hungary in 1848-9; and complain we are still allowing
Austria to get the benefit of our wrong. So also to Poland, I feel we have grossly neglected
our duty, and still neglect it.... We know that Hungary (Poland, Italy) is in the right; but
though called on to say so, we will not say it; nor even mediate, for it will lead to republicanism.
Again, I call it immoral to argue: 'We know that Austria is giving Turkey just cause of war;
but we must not allow the Sultan to resent it by declaring war; for it will give the nationalities
an opportunity of throwing off the Austrian yoke.'... Then, my dear friend, do you forget that
I approved of the French, and disapproved of the Austrian alliance?... Not to ally with Louis
Napoleon is not to join him against the French nation; while to ally with Francis Joseph was
to join him against the French nation, which his armies are trampling down. Again, we did not
catch Louis Napoleon engaged in a scheme with Nicholas (Emperor of Russia) to dismember Turkey,
and bribe Louis Napoleon to join us by the promise or hint that he should still get his slice
of Turkey. We have done this to Austria, and have used our severe pressure on the Turkish Government
to get Austria admitted into the Principalities.... I fear this summer will be as deadly to
our army as the winter was; my only comfort will be, that I shall make sure that Austria will
the clearer show her true colours.

"Hoping you are all well, I am,

"Ever yours affectionately,

"F. W. Newman." Here is practically the gist of the whole matter, as far as Francis Newman
is concerned. Throughout all his writings one comes again and again upon this note. "The People!
The People!" is his ever-recurring thought. What are "the People" suffering; what are their
needs, their wrongs which call for justice? The People is the living nation; the Court and
the Army may be inevitable adjuncts of a nation's being, as things at present are constituted;
but they are artificial adjuncts; the People are the very life essence of the Nation, its real
motive power. Let their voice be heard, and the soul of empire at once springs into being.

In the next letter from Newman to Martineau, 9th June, 1856, from which I shall quote, it is
shown that our Colonial Office was enraged against Kossuth because he had "mischievously hindered
the Austrian Government from getting troops to put down Italian insurrection." Newman goes
on to show how the treachery of Austria in her dealing with other nations was a potent fact,
and he adds, "Hungary was bound" (according to Kossuth's views) "to assist Austria against
foreign attack, and therefore against the King of Sardinia; but in the interval, before this
could come to any practical result, the intrigues of the Austrian Court with the Serbs were
brought to light; Austrian officers with the Emperor-King's commission in their pockets were
made prisoners from among the Serb ranks, and the internal danger of Hungary, as well as the
treachery of the Court, made it simply impossible to carry out, or wish to carry out, the Protocol.
But Kossuth was still the King's Minister, and could not say this openly. Unless he would have
taken the first step to civil war, he was bound to throw a thin veil over it in public speech
and action. The measure which he then promoted was ... that no Hungarian soldier should leave
the country until the internal rebellion was thoroughly subdued. That no Hungarian regiments
should fight against Italians until the Italians had had from Austria the offer of national
institutions and freedom under the Austrian Crown, putting them on a par with the Hungarians."

Nothing could have been fairer than these conditions, and this was very shortly recognized
when it became known that Latour and the Court were employing all their energies for long after
this date in stirring up the Serb rebellion. Yet they were shameless enough to complain of
Kossuth having incited the Hungarians to revolt. Writing the next day to Dr. Martineau, Newman
openly avows his belief that "every nation in the world is grasping and unjust in its foreign
policy in exact proportion to its power, England not being at all an exception." The italics
are my own. Have we not proof positive of this before our very eyes to-day? We cannot look
at India and say "no," for by our charter of 1833 we bound ourselves over to hold India only
until the education, which we had made possible for them, should enable the Indians to take
a share in the government of their own country. But when we look at the India of to-day, we
cannot but plead guilty to not having kept that charter honestly before our eyes. There is
but one office to which natives are admitted on equal terms with Englishmen to-day!

To go back to the letter:--

"England has no great European army, and cannot covet and subdue any portion of the European
continent. That is no great credit; but in Asia, where she is strong and her neighbours weak,
she is as grasping and unjust as Russia, Austria, France, or the U.S.... Lord Palmerston had
never heard (or pretended never to have heard) of the peace of Satmar, and that England was
mediator of it between Austria and Hungary. I think it is not mere knowledge, but higher morality,
which is the first need of policy on both sides the Atlantic."

It is now that Louis Napoleon comes on the scene as regards the beginnings of his connection
with Kossuth. Newman says that it was in 1856 that the closer friendship between Napoleon and
Cavour (Sardinian Minister) had begun. Not very long after it was borne in on the mind of Cavour
that Kossuth would be an invaluable ally in the plans of future conquest which they were then
preparing.

