The seventh scene of the fourth act takes place in a tent in the French camp. Lear is asleep
on a bed. Enter Cordelia and Kent, still in disguise. Lear is awakened by the music, and, seeing
Cordelia, does not believe she is a living being, thinks she is an apparition, does not believe
that he himself is alive. Cordelia assures him that she is his daughter, and begs him to bless
her. He falls on his knees before her, begs her pardon, acknowledges that he is as old and
foolish, says he is ready to take poison, which he thinks she has probably prepared for him,
as he is persuaded she must hate him. ("For your sisters," he says, "have done me wrong: you
have some cause, they have not.") Then he gradually comes to his senses and ceases to rave.
His daughter suggests that he should take a walk. He consents and says: "You must bear with
me. Pray you now forget and forgive: I am old and foolish." They depart. The gentleman and
Kent, remaining on the scene, hold a conversation which explains to the spectator that Edmund
is at the head of the troops and that a battle must soon begin between Lear's defenders and
his enemies. So the fourth act closes.

In this fourth act, the scene between Lear and his daughter might have been touching if it
had not been preceded in the course of the earlier acts by the tediously drawn out, monotonous
ravings of Lear, and if, moreover, this expression of his feelings constituted the last scene.
But the scene is not the last.

In the fifth act, the former coldly pompous, artificial ravings of Lear go on again, destroying
the impression which the previous scene might have produced.

The first scene of the fifth act at first represents Edmund and Regan; the latter is jealous
of her sister and makes an offer. Then come Goneril, her husband, and some soldiers. The Duke
of Albany, altho pitying Lear, regards it as his duty to fight with the French who have invaded
his country, and so he prepares for battle.

Then Edgar enters, still disguised, and hands to the Duke of Albany the letter he had received
from Goneril's dying steward, and tells him if he gains the victory to sound the trumpet, saying
that he can produce a champion who will confirm the contents of the letter.

In the second scene, Edgar enters leading his father Gloucester, seats him by a tree, and goes
away himself. The noise of battle is heard, Edgar runs back and says that the battle is lost
and Lear and Cordelia are prisoners. Gloucester again falls into despair. Edgar, still without
disclosing himself to his father, counsels endurance, and Gloucester immediately agrees with him.

The third scene opens with a triumphal progress of the victor Edmund. Lear and Cordelia are
prisoners. Lear, altho no longer insane, continues to utter the same senseless, inappropriate
words, as, for example, that in prison he will sing with Cordelia, she will ask his blessing,
and he will kneel down (this process of kneeling down is repeated three times) and will ask
her forgiveness. And he further says that, while they are living in prison, they will wear
out "packs and sects of great ones"; that he and Cordelia are sacrifices upon which the gods
will throw incense, and that he that parts them "shall bring a brand from heaven and fire them
like foxes; that he will not weep, and that the plague shall sooner devour his eyes, flesh
and fell, than they shall make them weep."

Edmund orders Lear and his daughter to be led away to prison, and, having called the officer
to do this, says he requires another duty and asks him whether he'll do it? The captain says
he can not draw a cart nor eat dried oats, but if it be men's work he can do it. Enter the
Duke of Albany, Goneril, and Regan. The Duke of Albany wishes to champion Lear, but Edmund
does not allow it. The daughters take part in the dialog and begin to abuse each other, being
jealous of Edmund. Here everything becomes so confused that it is difficult to follow the action.
The Duke of Albany wishes to arrest Edmund, and tells Regan that Edmund has long ago entered
into guilty relations with his wife, and that, therefore, Regan must give up her claims on
Edmund, and if she wishes to marry, should marry him, the Duke of Albany.

Having said this, the Duke of Albany calls Edmund, orders the trumpet to be sounded, saying
that, if no one appears, he will fight him himself.

Here Regan, whom Goneril has evidently poisoned, falls deadly sick. Trumpets are sounded and
Edgar enters with a vizor concealing his face, and, without giving his name, challenges Edmund.
Edgar abuses Edmund; Edmund throws all the abuses back on Edgar's head. They fight and Edmund
falls. Goneril is in despair. The Duke of Albany shows Goneril her letter. Goneril departs.

The dying Edmund discovers that his opponent was his brother. Edgar raises his vizor and pronounces
a moral lesson to the effect that, having begotten his illegitimate son Edmund, the father
has paid for it with his eyesight. After this Edgar tells the Duke of Albany his adventures
and how he has only just now, before entering on the recent combat, disclosed everything to
his father, and the father could not bear it and died from emotion. Edmund is not yet dead,
and wants to know all that has taken place.

Then Edgar relates that, while he was sitting over his father's body, a man came and closely
embraced him, and, shouting as loudly as if he wished to burst heaven, threw himself on the
body of Edgar's father, and told the most piteous tale about Lear and himself, and that while
relating this the strings of life began to crack, but at this moment the trumpet sounded twice
and Edgar left him "tranced"--and this was Kent.

Edgar has hardly finished this narrative when a gentleman rushes in with a bloody knife, shouting
"Help!" In answer to the question, "Who is killed?" the gentleman says that Goneril has been
killed, having poisoned her sister, she has confessed it.

Enters Kent, and at this moment the corpses of Goneril and Regan are brought in. Edmund here
says that the sisters evidently loved him, as one has poisoned the other for his sake, and
then slain herself. At the same time he confesses that he had given orders to kill Lear and
to hang Cordelia in prison, and pretend that she had taken her own life; but now he wishes
to prevent these deeds, and having said this he dies, and is carried away.

After this enters Lear with the dead Cordelia in his arms, altho he is more than eighty years
old and ill. Again begins Lear's awful ravings, at which one feels ashamed as at unsuccessful
jokes. Lear demands that all should howl, and, alternately, believes that Cordelia is dead
and that she is alive.

"Had I your tongues and eyes," he says "I'd use them so that heaven's vault should crack."

Then he says that he killed the slave who hanged Cordelia. Next he says that his eyes see badly,
but at the same time he recognizes Kent whom all along he had not recognized.

The Duke of Albany says that he will resign during the life of Lear and that he will reward
Edgar and Kent and all who have been faithful to him. At this moment the news is brought that
Edmund is dead, and Lear, continuing his ravings, begs that they will undo one of his buttons--the
same request which he had made when roaming about the heath. He expresses his thanks for this,
tells everyone to look at something, and thereupon dies.

All depart to the music of a dead march. Thus ends the fifth act and the drama.

III

Such is this celebrated drama.

But such free-minded individuals, not inoculated with Shakespeare-worship, are no longer to
be found in our Christian society. Every man of our society and time, from the first period
of his conscious life, has been inoculated with the idea that Shakespeare is a genius, a poet,
and a dramatist, and that all his writings are the height of perfection. Yet, however hopeless
it may seem, I will endeavor to demonstrate in the selected drama--"King Lear"--all those faults
equally characteristic also of all the other tragedies and comedies of Shakespeare, on account
of which he not only is not representing a model of dramatic art, but does not satisfy the
most elementary demands of art recognized by all.

Dramatic art, according to the laws established by those very critics who extol Shakespeare,
demands that the persons represented in the play should be, in consequence of actions proper
to their characters, and owing to a natural course of events, placed in positions requiring
them to struggle with the surrounding world to which they find themselves in opposition, and
in this struggle should display their inherent qualities.

In "King Lear" the persons represented are indeed placed externally in opposition to the outward
world, and they struggle with it. But their strife does not flow from the natural course of
events nor from their own characters, but is quite arbitrarily established by the author, and
therefore can not produce on the reader the illusion which represents the essential condition
of art.

Lear has no necessity or motive for his abdication; also, having lived all his life with his
daughters, has no reason to believe the words of the two elders and not the truthful statement
of the youngest; yet upon this is built the whole tragedy of his position.

Similarly unnatural is the subordinate action: the relation of Gloucester to his sons. The
positions of Gloucester and Edgar flow from the circumstance that Gloucester, just like Lear,
immediately believes the coarsest untruth and does not even endeavor to inquire of his injured
son whether what he is accused of be true, but at once curses and banishes him. The fact that
Lear's relations with his daughters are the same as those of Gloucester to his sons makes one
feel yet more strongly that in both cases the relations are quite arbitrary, and do not flow
from the characters nor the natural course of events. Equally unnatural, and obviously invented,
is the fact that all through the tragedy Lear does not recognize his old courtier, Kent, and
therefore the relations between Lear and Kent fail to excite the sympathy of the reader or
spectator. The same, in a yet greater degree, holds true of the position of Edgar, who, unrecognized
by any one, leads his blind father and persuades him that he has leapt off a cliff, when in
reality Gloucester jumps on level ground.

These positions, into which the characters are placed quite arbitrarily, are so unnatural that
the reader or spectator is unable not only to sympathize with their sufferings but even to
be interested in what he reads or sees. This in the first place.

