    During the past twenty-five years competition in the world markets
    became enormously keen. In the wild scramble for trade the
    standards of honest business were disregarded more and more by all
    the various rival nations. In the absence of any special regulation
    or legislation, it appeared as though a silent understanding
    prevailed in wide circles that foreign trade was subject to a code
    of business ethics widely at variance with the rules observed in
    domestic trade. What was frowned upon as unethical and poor
    business policy, if not illegal at home, was condoned and winked at
    or openly espoused when foreign markets formed the basis of
    operations and foreigners were the competitors. High-minded men of
    all nations have long observed with concern the growing tendency of
    modern international trade toward selfish exploitation,
    concession-hunting, cut-throat competition, and commercialistic
    practices of the most sordid type. Time and again complaints have
    been voiced, retaliatory measures threatened, and more than once
    serious friction has ensued.

Mr. Notz brings to our attention various efforts by official and commercial bodies looking
toward remedies for such conditions and toward official recognition by all countries of unfair
competition as a penal offense.

What more do we need than fair competition to constitute the coöperative international life
which we dreamed yesterday and now must consider, not merely as a dream, but as the only alternative
to a future of horror?

Free trade has been not unnaturally urged as at least one condition. Tariffs certainly isolate.
To say to a country: "You shall manufacture nothing unless you own the raw material; you shall
sell nothing unless at prices which I fix," is likely to provoke the reply: "Then I must acquire
lands in which raw materials are found; I must acquire colonies which will buy my products."
Trade agreements mean coöperation for those within, unless they are one-sided and made under
duress; in any case they are exclusive of those without. Free trade, the open door, seems to
offer a better way. But free trade in name is not free trade unless the parties are really
free--free from ignorance, from pressure of want. If one party is weak and the other unscrupulous;
if one competitor has a lower standard of living than the other, freedom of trade will not
mean genuine coöperation. Such coöperation as means good for all requires either an equality
of conditions between traders and laborers of competing nations and of nations which exchange
goods, or else an international control to prevent unfair competition, exploitation of weaker
peoples, and lowering of standards of living. Medical science is giving an object lesson which
may well have a wide application. It is seeking to combat disease in its centers of diffusion.
Instead of attempting to quarantine against the Orient, it is aiding the Orient to overcome
those conditions which do harm alike to Orient and Occident. Plague, anthrax, yellow fever,
cannot exist in one country without harm to all. Nor in the long run can men reach true coöperation
so long as China and Africa are a prize for the exploiter rather than equals in the market.
Not merely in the political sense, but in its larger meanings democracy here is not safe without
democracy there. Education, and the lifting of all to a higher level, is the ultimate goal.
And until education, invention, and intercommunication have done their work of elevation, international
control must protect and regulate.

In many respects the obstacle to international coöperation which is most difficult to remove
is the strong and still growing sentiment of nationality. This is not, like dominance, a waning
survival of a cruder method of social order; it is a genuine type of coöperation. Rooted as
it is in a historic past, in community of ideals and traditions, and usually of language and
art, it wakens the emotional response to a degree once true only of religion. Born of such
a social tradition, the modern may be said in truth mentally and spiritually, as well as physically,
to be born a Frenchman or a German, a Scotchman or Irishman or Englishman. He may be content
to merge this inheritance in an empire if he can be senior partner, but the struggles of Irish,
Poles, Czechs, and South Slavs, the Zionist movement, the nationalistic stirrings in India,
with their literary revivals, their fierce self-assertions, seem to point away from internationalism
rather than toward it. The Balkans, in which Serb, Bulgar, Roumanian, and Greek have been developing
this national consciousness, have been the despair of peacemakers.

The strongest point in the nationalist programme is, however, not in any wise opposed to coöperation,
but rather to dominance or non-social competition. The strongest point is the importance of
diversity combined with group unity for the fullest enrichment of life and the widest development
of human capacity. A world all of one sort would not only be less interesting, but less progressive.
We are stimulated by different customs, temperaments, arts, and ideals. But all this is the
strongest argument for genuine coöperation, since by this only can diversity be helpful, even
as it is only through diversity in its members that a community can develop fullest life. A
world organization based on the principle that any single group is best and therefore ought
to rule, or to displace all others, would be a calamity. A world organization which encourages
every member to be itself would be a blessing.

Why do nationalism and internationalism clash? Because this national spirit has rightly or
wrongly been bound up so intimately with political independence. I said within myself as i linked
a two words here.

Same man passed his hand across his feature. It was agonizing that he was in the night of the
pale nightmare-- an vision of conviction. Now stood an man before me together, evident and poor,
the rays from every go up his word and revealing the face "midst" written on these feature. I watched
him and waited for something else to come from his lips. I stood by his side for nearly the
hour, but he did nothing more than repeat a the two words. With whole tread he turned to lighting.
I followed him to his bedroom and heard him become the remarkable.
I sit up the motionless and night-- thinking. None knew of the measured
discovery which i had larn amongst key Huntingdon's sketches; none should
know of what i had made to-guilt.

VI

The student of human progress is likely to be increasingly impressed with the interaction between
ideas and institutions. How far does man build and shape institutions to give body to his ideas?
How far is it the organized life with its social contacts, its give and take, its enlargement
of its membership to see life sub specie communitatis, which itself brings ideas to birth?
Desire may bring the sexes together, but it is the association and organized relationships
of the family which transform casual to permanent affection and shape our conceptions of its
values. A herding instinct or a common need of defense or of food supplies may bring together
early groups, and will to power may begin the state, but it is the living together which generates
laws and wakens the craving for liberty and the struggle for justice. Seer and poet doubtless
contribute to progress by their kindling appeals to the imagination and sympathy; the philosopher
may, as Plato claimed for him, live as citizen of a perfect state which has no earthly being,
and shape his life according to its laws; but mankind in general has learned law and right,
as well as the arts of use and beauty, in the school of life in common.

