Her program, too, has the immense advantage of including all that the new order of things in
this country, instituted by the Revolution, made imperative for women--the schooling, the liberty
of action, the independent pocket book. Because she has formulated these notions so definitely
and has hammered on them so hard, the militant woman frequently claims that they originated
with her, that she is the cause of the great development in educational opportunities, in freedom
to work and to circulate, in the increasing willingness to face the facts of life and speak
the truth. This claim she should drop. She is rather the logical result of these notions, their
extreme expression. She has, however, had an enormous influence in keeping them alive in the
great slow-moving mass of women, where the fate of new ideas rests and where they are always
tried out with extreme caution. Without her the vision of enlarging and liberalizing their
own particular business to meet the needs of the New Democracy which so exalted the women of
the Revolution, would not to-day be as nearly realized as it is. To speak slightingly of her
part in the women's movement is uncomprehending. She was then, and always has been, a tragic
figure, this woman in the front of the woman's movement--driven by a great unrest, sacrificing
old ideals to attain new, losing herself in a frantic and frequently blind struggle, often
putting back her cause by the sad illustration she was of the price that must be paid to attain
a result. Certainly no woman who to-day takes it as a matter of course that she should study
what she chooses, go and come as she will, support herself unquestioned by trade, profession,
or art, work in public or private, handle her own property, share her children on equal terms
with her husband, receive a respectful attention on platform or before legislature, live freely
in the world, should think with anything but reverence particularly of the early disturbers
of convention and peace, for they were an essential element in the achievement.

The great strength of the radical program is now, as it has always been, the powerful appeal
it makes to the serious young woman. Man and marriage are a trap--that is the essence the young
woman draws from the campaign for woman's rights. All the vague terror which at times runs
through a girl's dream of marriage, the sudden vision of probable agonies, of possible failure
and death, become under the teachings of the militant woman so many realities. She sees herself
a "slave," as the jargon has it, putting all her eggs into one basket with the certainty that
some, perhaps all, will be broken.

The new gospel offers an escape from all that. She will be a "free" individual, not one "tied"
to a man. The "drudgery" of the household she will exchange for what she conceives to be the
broad and inspiring work which men are doing. For the narrow life of the family she will escape
to the excitement and triumph of a "career." The Business of Being a Woman becomes something
to be apologized for. All over the land there are women with children clamoring about them,
apologizing for never having done anything! Women whose days are spent in trade and professions
complacently congratulate themselves that they at least have lived. There were girls in the
early days of the movement, as there no doubt are to-day, who prayed on their knees that they
might escape the frightful isolation of marriage, might be free to "live" and to "work," to
"know" and to "do."

What it was really all about they never knew until it was too late. That is, they examined
neither the accusations nor the premises. They accepted them. Strong young natures are quick
to accept charges of injustice. To them it is unnatural that life should be hampered, that
it should be anything but radiant. Curing injustice, too, seems particularly easy to the young.
It is simply a matter of finding a remedy and putting it into force! The young American woman
of militant cast finds it is easy to believe that the Business of Being a Woman is slavery.
She has her mother's pains and sacrifices and tears before her, and she resents them. She meets
the theory on every hand that the distress she loathes is of man's doing, that it is for her
to revolt, to enter his business, and so doing escape his tyranny, find a worth-while life
for herself, and at the same time help "liberate" her sex.

And so for sixty years she has been working on this thesis. That she has not demonstrated it
sufficiently to satisfy even herself is shown by the fact that she is still the most conspicuous
of Uneasy Women. But that she has produced a type and an influential one is certain. Indeed,
she may be said to have demonstrated sufficiently for practical purposes what there is for
her in imitating the activities of man.

CHAPTER II

ON THE IMITATION OF MAN

Fresh attacks on life, like chemical experiments, turn up unexpected by-products. The Uneasy
Woman, driven by the thirst for greater freedom, and believing man's way of life will assuage
it, lays siege to his kingdom. Some of the unexpected loot she has carried away still embarrasses
her. Not a little, however, is of such undeniable advantage that she may fairly contend that
its capture alone justifies her campaign.

Go to-day into many a woman's club house, into many a drawing-room or studio at, let us say,
the afternoon tea hour, and what will you see? One or probably more women in mannish suits
and boots calmly smoking cigarettes while they talk, and talk well, about things in which women
are not supposed to be interested, but which it is apparent they understand.

Look the exhibit over. It is made, you at once recognize, by women of character, position,
and sense. They have simply found certain masculine ways to their liking and adopted them.
The probability is that if anybody should object to their habits, many of them would be as
bewildered as are the great majority of Americans by the demonstration that "nice" women can
smoke and think nothing of it!

The cigarette, the boot, and much of the talk are only by-products of the woman's invasion
of the man's world. She did not set out to win these spoils. They came to her in the campaign!

The objects of her attack were things she considered more fundamental. She was dissatisfied
with the way her brain was being trained, her time employed, her influence directed. "Give
us the man's way," was her demand, "then we shall understand real things, can fill our days
with important tasks, will count as human beings."

There was no uncertainty in her notion of how this was to be accomplished. A woman rarely feels
uncertainty about methods. She instinctively sees a way and follows it with assurance. Half
her irritation against man has always been that he is a spendthrift with time and talk. Madame
Roland, sitting at her sewing table listening to the excited debate of the Revolutionists in
her salon, mourned that though the ideas were many, the resulting measures were few. It is
the woman's eternal complaint against discussion--nothing comes of it. In a country like our
own, where reflection usually follows action, the woman's natural mental attitude is exaggerated.
It is one reason why we have so few houses where there is anything like conversation, why with
us the salon as an institution is out of question. The woman wants immediately to incorporate
her ideas. She is not interested in turning them over, letting her mind play with them. She
has no patience with other points of view than her own. They are wrong--therefore why consider
them? She detests uncertainties--questions which cannot be settled. Only by man and the rare
woman is it accepted that talk is a good enough end in itself.

The strength of woman's attack on man's life, apart from the essential soundness of the impulse
which drove her to make it, lay then in its directness and practicality. She began by asking
to be educated in the same way that man educated himself. Preferably she would enter his classroom,
or if that was denied her, she would follow the "just-as-good" curriculum of the college founded
for her. In the last sixty or seventy years tens of thousands of women have been students in
American universities, colleges, and technical schools, taking there the same training as men.
In the last twenty years the annual crescendo of numbers has been amazing; over ten thousand
at the beginning of the period, over fifty-two thousand at the end. Over eight thousand degrees
were given to women in 1910, nearly half as many as were given to men. Fully four fifths of
these women students and graduates have worked side by side with men in schools which served
both equally.

Here, then, is a great mass of experience from which it would seem that we ought to be able
to say precisely how the intellects of the two sexes act and react under the stimulus of serious
study, to decide definitely whether their attack on problems is the same, whether they come
out the same. Nevertheless, he would be a rash observer who would pretend to lay down hard-and-fast
generalizations. Assert whatever you will as to the mind of woman at work and some unimpeachable
authority will rise up with experience that contradicts you. But the same may be said of the
mind of man. The mind--per se--is a variable and disconcerting organ.

But admitting all this--certain generalizations, on the whole correct, may be made from our
experience with coeducation.

One of the first of these is that at the start the woman takes her work more seriously than
her masculine competitor. Fifty years ago there was special reason for this. The few who in
those early days sought a man's education had something of the spirit of pioneers. They had
set themselves a lofty task: to prove themselves the equal of man--to win privileges which
they believed were maliciously denied their sex. The spirit with which they attacked their
studies was illumined by the loftiness of their aim. The girl who enters college nowadays has
rarely the opportunity to be either pioneer or martyr. She is doing what has come to be regarded
as a matter of course. Nevertheless, to-day as then, in the coeducational institution she is
more consciously on her mettle than the man.

Her attention, interest, respectfulness, docility, will be ahead of his. It will at once be
apparent that she carries the larger stock of untaught knowledge. In the classroom she will
usually outstep him in mathematics. It is an ideal subject for her, satisfying her talent for
order, for making things "come out right." Her memory will serve her better. She can depend
upon it to carry more exceptions to rules, more fantastic irregular verbs, more dates, more
lists of kings and queens, battles and generals, and on the whole she will treat this sort
of impedimenta with more respect. She will know less of abstract ideas, of philosophies and
speculations. They will interest her less. The chances are that she will be less skillful with
microscope and scalpel, though this is not certain. She will show less enthusiasm for technical
problems, for machinery and engineering; more for social problems, particularly when it is
a question of meeting them with preventives or remedies. In the first two or three years after
entering college, she will almost invariably appear superior to the men of her age, more grown
up, more interested, surer of herself, readier. Later you will find her on the whole less inclined
to experiment with her gifts, to feel her wings, to make unexpected dashes into life. It begins
to look as if he were the experimenter, she the conservator. And by the time she is a senior,
look out! The chances are she will have less interest from now on with man's business and more
with her own! In any case she will rarely develop as rapidly in his field from this point as
he is doing.

He becomes assertive, confident, dominating; the male taking a male's place. He discovers that
his intellectual processes are more scientific than hers, therefore he concludes they are superior.
He finds he can outargue her, draw logical conclusions as she cannot. He can do anything with
her but convince her, for she jumps the process, lands on her conclusion, and there she sits.
Things are so because they are so. And the chances are she is right, in spite of the irregular
way she got there. Something superior to reason enters into her operations--an intuition of
truth akin to inspiration. In early ages women unusually endowed with this quality of perception
were honored as seers. To-day they are recognized as counselors of prophetic wisdom. "If I
had taken my wife's advice!" How often one hears it!

One most important fact has come out of our great coeducational experiment: The college cannot
entirely rub feminity out and masculinity into a woman's brain. The woman's mind is still the
woman's mind, although she is usually the last to recognize it. It is another proof of the
eternal fact that Nature looks after her own good works!

But it takes more than a college course to make an efficient, flexible, and trustworthy organ
from a mind, masculine or feminine. It must be applied to productive labor in competition with
other trained minds, before you can decide what it is worth. Set the man-trained woman's mind
at what is called man's business, let it be what you will--keeping a shop, practicing medicine
or law, editing, running a factory--let her do it in what she considers to be a man's way,
and with fidelity to her original theory that his way is more desirable than hers; that is,
let her succeed in the task of making a man of herself--what about her?--what kind of a man
does she become?

Here again there is ample experience to go on. For seventy years we have had them with us--the
stern disciples of the militant program. Greater fidelity to a task than they show it would
be impossible to find--a fidelity so unwavering that it is often painful. Their care for detail,
for order, for exactness, is endless. Dignity, respect for their undertaking, devotion to professional
etiquette they may be counted on to show in the highest degree. These are admirable qualities.
They have led hundreds of women into independence and good service. Almost never, however,
have they led one to the top. In free fields such as merchandising, editing, and manufacturing
we have yet to produce a woman of the first caliber; that is, daring, experimenting, free from
prejudice, with a vision of the future great enough to lead her to embody something of the
future in her task.

In every profession we have scores of successful women--almost never a great woman, and yet
the world is full of great women! That is, of women who understand, are familiar with the big
sacrifices, appreciative of the fine things, far-seeing, prophetic. Why does this greatness
so rarely find expression in their professional undertakings?

The answer is no doubt complex, but one factor is the general notion of the woman that if she
succeeds she must suppress her natural emotions and meet the world with a surface as non-resilient
as she conceives that of man to be in his dealings with the world. She is strengthened in this
notion by hard necessity. No woman could live and respond as freely as her nature prompts to
the calls on her sympathy which come in the contact with all conditions of life involved in
practicing a trade or a profession. She must save herself. To do it she incases herself in
an unnatural armor. For the normal, healthy woman this means the suppression of what is strongest
in her nature, that power which differentiates her chiefly from man, her power of emotion,
her "affectability" as the scientists call it. She must overcome her own nature, put it in
bonds, cripple it, if she is to do her work. Here is a fundamental reason for the failure of
woman to reach the first rank. She has sacrificed the most wonderful part of her endowment,
that which when trained gives her vision, sharpens her intuitions, reveals the need and the
true course. This superior affectability crushed, leaves her atrophied.

The common characterization of this atrophied woman is that she is "cold." It is the exact
word. She is cold, also she is self-centered and intensely personal. Let a woman make success
in a trade or profession her exclusive and sufficient ambition, and the result, though it may
be brilliant, is repellent.

She gives to her task an altogether disproportionate place in her scheme of things. Life is
not made by work, important as is work in life. Human nature has varied needs. It calls imperatively
for a task, something to do with brain and hands--a productive something which fits the common
good, without which the world would not be as orderly and as happy. Say what we will, it matters
very little what the task is--if it contributes in some fashion to this superior orderliness
and happiness. But it means more. It means leisure, pleasure, excitements; it means feeding
of the taste, the curiosity, the emotions, the reflective powers; and it means love, love of
the mate, the child, the friend, and neighbor. It means reverence for the scheme of things
and one's place in it; worship of the author of it, religion.

But the woman sternly set to do a man's business, believing it better than the woman's, too
often views life as made up of business. She throws her whole nature to the task. Her work
is her child. She gives it the same exclusive passionate attention. She is as fiercely jealous
of interference in it as she would be if it were a child. She resents suggestions and change.
It is hers, a personal thing to which she clings as if it were a living being. That attitude
is the chief reason why working with women in the development of great undertakings is as difficult
as coöperating with them in the rearing of a family. It is also a reason why they rarely rise
to the first rank. They cannot get away from their undertakings sufficiently to see the big
truths and movements which are always impersonal.

Brilliant and satisfying as her triumph may be to her personally, she frequently finds that
it is resented by nature and by society. She finds that nature lays pitfalls for her, cracks
the ice of her heart and sets it aflame, often for absurd and unworthy causes. She finds that
the great mass of unconscious women commiserate or scorn her as one who has missed the fullness
of life. She finds that society regards her as one who shirked the task of life, and who, therefore,
should not be honored as the woman who has stood up to the common burden. When she senses this--which
is not always--she treats it as prejudice. As a matter of fact, the antagonism of Nature and
Society to the militant woman is less prejudice than self-defense. It is a protest against
the wastefulness and sacrifice of her career. It is a right saving impulse to prevent perversion
of the qualities and powers of women which are most needed in the world, those qualities and
powers which differentiate her from man, which make for the variety, the fullness, the charm,
and interest of life.

Moreover, Nature and Society must not permit her triumph to appear desirable to the young.
They must be made to understand what her winnings have cost in lovely and desirable things.
They must know that the unrest which drove her to the attempt is not necessarily satisfied
by her triumph, that it is merely stifled and may break out at any time in vagaries and follies.
They must be made to realize the essential barrenness of her triumph, its lack of the savor
and tang of life, the multitude of makeshifts she must practice to recompense her for the lack
of the great adventure of natural living.

And they see it, many of them, before they are out of college, and their militancy falls off
like the cloak it generally is. The girl abandons her quest. In the early days she was likely
to be treated as an apostate if, instead of following the "life work" she had picked out, she
slipped back into matrimony. I can remember the dismay among certain militant friends when
Alice Freeman married. "Our first college president," they groaned. "A woman who so vindicated
the sex." It was like the grieving of Miss Anthony that Mrs. Stanton wasted so much time having
babies!

The militant theory, as originally conceived, instead of increasing in favor, has declined.
There is little likelihood now that any great number of women will ever regard it as a desirable
working formula for more than a short period of their lives. But I am not saying that this
theory is no longer influential. It is probable that in a modified form it was never more influential
than it is to-day. For, while the Uneasy Woman has practically demonstrated that "making a
man of herself" does not solve her problem, she has by no means given up the notion that the
Business of Being a Woman is narrowing and unsatisfying. Nor has she ceased to consider man's
life more desirable than woman's.

The present effort of the serious-minded to meet the case takes two general directions, natural
enough outgrowths of the original militancy. The first of these is a frank advocacy of celibacy.
"Celibacy is the aristocracy of the future," is the preaching of one European feminist. It
is a modification of the scheme by which the medieval woman sought to escape unrest. Four hundred
years ago a woman sought celibacy as an escape from sin; service and righteousness were her
aim. To-day she adopts it to escape inferiority and servitude; superiority and freedom her aim.

The ranks of the woman celibates are not full. Many a candidate falls out by the way, confronted
by something she had not reckoned with--the eternal command that she be a woman. She compromises--grudgingly.
She will be a woman on condition that she is guaranteed economic freedom, opportunity for self-expressive
work, political recognition. What this amounts to is that she does not see in the woman's life
a satisfying and permanent end. There are various points at which she claims it fails. It is
antagonistic to personal ambition. It makes a dependent of her. It leaves her in middle life
without an occupation. It keeps her out of the great movements of her day--gives her no part
in the solution of the ethical and economical problems which affect her and her children. She
declares that she wants fuller participation in life, and by life she seems to mean the elaborate
machinery by which human wants are supplied and human beings kept in something like order;
the movements of the market place, of politics, and of government.

Now if there were not something in her contention, the Uneasy Woman would not be with us as
she is to-day, more vociferous, more insistent than ever in the world's history. What is there
in her case?

If the cultivation of individual tastes and talents to a useful, productive point is out of
question in the woman's business, if it is not a part of it, something is weak in the scheme.
Something is weak if the woman is or feels that she is not paying her way. Both are not only
individual rights; they are individual duties.

