But he had left Mother Bunch behind him.  Nobody knew exactly what was Mrs. Bunker's nation;
indeed she could hardly be said to have any, for she had been born at sea, and had been a sailor's
wife; but whether she was mostly English, Dutch or Spanish, nobody knew and nobody cared. 
Her husband had been lost at sea, and Uncle Joseph had taken her to look after his house, and
always said she was the only woman who had sense and discretion enough ever to go into his
laboratory or dust his museum.

She was very kind and good natured, and there was nothing that the children liked better than
a walk to Uncle Joseph's, and, after a play in the garden, tea with her.  And such quantities
of sugar there were in her room! such curious cakes made in the fashion of different countries!
such funny preserves from all parts of the world!  And still more delightful, such cupboards
and drawers full of wonderful things, and such stories about them!  The younger ones liked
Mrs. Bunker's room better than Uncle Joseph's museum, where there were some big stuffed beasts
with glaring eyes that frightened them; and they had to walk round with hands behind, that
they might not touch anything, or else their uncle's voice was sure to call out gruffly, "Paws
off!"

Mrs. Bunker was not a bit like the smart house-keepers at other houses.  To be sure, on Sundays
she came out in a black silk gown with a little flounce at the bottom, a scarlet crape shawl
with a blue dragon on it--his wings over her back, and a claw over each shoulder, so that whoever
sat behind her in church was terribly distracted by trying to see the rest of him--and a very
big yellow Tuscan bonnet, trimmed with sailor's blue ribbon.

But during the week and about the house she wore a green gown, with a brown holland apron and
bib over it, quite straight all the way down, for she had no particular waist, and her hair,
which was of a funny kind of flaxen grey, she bundled up and tied round, without any cap or
anything else on her head.  One of the little boys had once called her Mother Bunch, because
of her stories; and the name fitted her so well that the whole family, and even Uncle Joseph,
took it up.

Lucy was very fond of her; but when about an hour after the doctor's visit she was waked by
a rustling and a lumbering on the stairs, and presently the door opened, and the second best
big bonnet--the go-to-market bonnet with the turned ribbons--came into the room with Mother
Bunch's face under it, and the good-natured voice told her she was to be carried to Uncle Joseph's
and have oranges and tamarinds, she did begin to feel like the spotted cowry-shell to think
about being set on the chimney-piece, to cry, and say she wanted Mamma.

The Nurse and Mother Bunch began to comfort her, and explain that the doctor thought she had
the scarlatina; not at all badly; but that if any of the others caught it, nobody could guess
how bad they would be; especially Mamma, who had just been ill; and so she was to be rolled
up in her blankets, and put into a carriage, and taken to her uncle's; and there she would
stay till she was not only well, but could safely come home without carrying infection about
with her.

Lucy was a good little girl, and knew that she must bear it; so, though she could not help
crying a little when she found she must not kiss any one, nay not even see them, and that nobody
might go with her but Lonicera, her own china doll, she made up her mind bravely; and she was
a good deal cheered when Clare, the biggest and best of all the dolls, was sent into her, with
all her clothes, by Maude, her eldest sister, to be her companion,--it was such an honor and
so very kind of Maude that it quite warmed the sad little heart.

So Lucy had her little scarlet flannel dressing gown on, and her shoes and stockings, and a
wonderful old knitted hood with a tippet to it, and then she was rolled round and round in
all her bed-clothes, and Mrs. Bunker took her up like a very big baby, not letting any one
else touch her.  How Mrs. Bunker got safe down all the stairs no one can tell, but she did,
and into the carriage, and there poor Lucy looked back and saw at the windows Mamma's face,
and Papa's, and Maude's and all the rest, all nodding and smiling to her, but Maude was crying
all the time, and perhaps Mamma was too.

The journey seemed very long; and Lucy was really tired when she was put down at last in a
big bed, nicely warmed for her, and with a bright fire in the room.  As soon as she had had
some beef-tea, she went off soundly to sleep and only woke to drink tea, give the dolls their
supper, and put them to sleep.

The next evening she was sitting up by the fire, and the fourth day she was running about the
house as if nothing had ever been the matter with her, but she was not to go home for a fortnight;
and being wet, cold, dull weather, it was not always easy to amuse herself.  She had her dolls,
to be sure, and the little dog Don, to play with, and sometimes Mr. Bunker would let her make
funny things with the dough, or stone the raisins, or even help make a pudding; but still there
was a good deal of time on her hands. She had only two books with her, and the rash had made
her eyes weak, so that she did not much like reading them.  The notes that every one wrote
from home were quite enough for her.  What she liked best--that is, when Mrs. Bunker could
not attend to her--was to wander about the museum, explaining the things to the dolls: "That
is a crocodile, Lonicera; it eats people up, and has a little bird to pick its teeth.  Look,
Clare, that bony thing is a skeleton--the skeleton of a lizard.  Paws off, my dear; mustn't
touch. That's amber, just like barley sugar, only not so nice; people make necklaces of it.
There's a poor little dead fly inside. Those are the dear delightful humming-birds; look at
their crests, just like Mamma's jewels.  See the shells; aren't they beauties? People get pearls
out of those great flat ones, and dive all down to the bottom of the sea after them; mustn't
touch, my dear, only look; paws off."

One would think that Lonicera's curved fingers, all in one piece, and Clare's blue leather
hands had been very moveable and mischievous, judging by the number of times this warning came;
but of course it was Lucy herself who wanted it most, for her own little plump, pinky hands
did almost tingle to handle and turn round those pretty shells. She wanted to know whether
the amber tasted like barley-sugar, as it looked; and there was a little musk deer, no bigger
than Don, whom she longed to stroke, or still better to let Lonicera ride; but she was a good
little girl, and had real sense of honor, which never betrays a trust; so she never laid a
finger on anything but what Uncle Joe had once given them leave to move.

This was a very big pair of globes--bigger than globes commonly are now, and with more frames
round them--one great flat one, with odd names painted on it, and another brass one, nearly
upright, going half-way round from top to bottom, and with the globe hung upon it by two pins,
which Lucy's elder sisters called the poles, or the ends of the axis.  The huge round balls
went very easily with a slight touch, and there was something very charming in making them
go whisk, whisk, whisk; now faster, now slower, now spinning so quickly that nothing on them
could be seen, now turning slowly and gradually over and showing all that was on them.

