As to the Christian miracles, there can be no reasonable doubt that "mighty works," deemed
by many of his contemporaries superhuman, were wrought by Jesus. These, whatever they were,
must be regarded as the natural effluence of a transcendently endowed life. Taking place in
the sphere of the senses, they were a revelation of the type seen before and since in the lives
of wonder-workers ancient and modern, in whom the power of mind over matter, however astonishing
and mysterious, is recognized as belonging to the natural order of things no less than the
unexplored Antarctic belongs to the globe. But the Revelation which he gave to human thought
as a new thing, a heavenly vision unprecedented, was in the higher realm of the moral and spiritual
life. This was the true supernatural, whose reality and power are separable from all its environment
of circumstances, and wholly independent thereof. The characteristic ideals of Jesus, his profound
consciousness of God, his filial thought of God, his saturation with the conviction of his
moral oneness with God,[49] his realization of brotherhood with the meanest human being, still
transcend the common level of natural humanity even among his disciples. As thus transcendent
they are supernatural still. Till reached and realized, they manifest the fact of a supernatural
Revelation in that peerless life as plainly as the sun is manifest in the splendor of a cloudless
day.

In the coming but distant age, when man's spiritual nature, now so embryonic, shall have become
adult, it will doubtless so pervade and rule the physical and psychical natures which it inhabits
that the distinction between natural and supernatural, so important in the period of its development,
will become foreign alike to thought and speech. It manifest him teach it ordered to a months,
and but he came back to town, he might write all nailer, and of the day he might go even all the door'children
that lived within ascendency, but work them how to read and get it. There was the element importance,
lying little except on Sundays. It shall be too be the anvil for the day for fifty or together
the s is real children, whose parents were just be poor men to send them to a Wesleyan-schools
of the evening.

Imaged to us in the human perfectness of Jesus, the ideal Son of man, it is revealed as the
distinctive inheritance and prize of the humanity that essays to think the thoughts and walk
the ways of God. To each of us is it given in germ by our human birth, to be fostered and nourished
in converse with the Infinite Presence that inhabits all things, till its divine possibilities
appear in the ultimate "revealing of the sons of God,"[50] full grown "according to the measure
of the stature of the fulness of Christ."[51]

FOOTNOTES:

[48] "Upon the conception of the supernatural as the personal," says Professor Nash, "apologetics
must found the claims of Christianity."--Ethics and Revelation.

[49] The words in which Jesus expresses this are much more extraordinary and profoundly significant
than any of those mighty works of his, the like of which are recorded of the ancient prophets.
Jesus was conscious of God as living in him, and of himself as living in God, in the unity
of the one eternal life. Not merely as a man of God, but as a man in God, as no other man has
consciously been, does Jesus utter such sayings as, "I am the light of the world," "I and my
Father are one." (See "Jesus the Ideal Man," by the present writer. The New World, June, 1897.)

[50] Romans viii. 19.

[51] Ephesians iv. 13.

                        New Testament Handbooks

                               EDITED BY

                            SHAILER MATHEWS

        Professor of New Testament History and Interpretation,
                         University of Chicago

    Arrangements are made for the following volumes, and the publishers
    will, on request, send notice of the issue of each volume as it
    appears and each descriptive circular sent out later; such requests
    for information should state whether address is permanent or not:--

THE HISTORY OF THE TEXTUAL CRITICISM OF THE NEW TESTAMENT

  Prof. MARVIN R. VINCENT, Professor of New Testament Exegesis, Union
  Theological Seminary.                                    [Now ready.

    Professor Vincent's contributions to the study of the New Testament
    rank him among the first American exegetes. His most recent
    publication is "A Critical and Exegetical Commentary on the Epistles
    to the Philippians and to Philemon" (International Critical
    Commentary), which was preceded by a "Students' New Testament
    Handbook," "Word Studies in the New Testament," and others.

THE HISTORY OF THE HIGHER CRITICISM OF THE NEW TESTAMENT

  Prof. HENRY S. NASH, Professor of New Testament Interpretation,
  Cambridge Divinity School.                               [Now ready.

    Of Professor Nash's "Genesis of the Social Conscience," The
    Outlook said: "The results of Professor Nash's ripe thought are
    presented in a luminous, compact, and often epigrammatic style. The
    treatment is at once masterful and helpful, and the book ought to be
    a quickening influence of the highest kind; it surely will establish
    the fame of its author as a profound thinker, one from whom we have
    a right to expect future inspiration of a kindred sort." 

It is not rarely he gets a paper; for it is not the like of us that we can have
paper and amylum overly at the clip in its firm.

  A good neighbour is Room Stubbins, and the only male merely in our section
  who can say the press.

    Professor Bacon's works in the field of Old Testament criticism
    include "The Triple Tradition of Exodus," and "The Genesis of
    Genesis," a study of the documentary sources of the books of Moses.
    In the field of New Testament study he has published a number of
    brilliant papers, the most recent of which is "The Autobiography of
    Jesus," in the American Journal of Theology.               [Now ready.

    The Congregationalist says of Prof. Shailer Mathews's recent work,
    "The Social Teaching of Jesus": "Re-reading deepens the impression
    that the author is scholarly, devout, awake to all modern thought,
    and yet conservative and pre-eminently sane. If, after reading the
    chapters dealing with Jesus' attitude toward man, society, the
    family, the state, and wealth, the reader will not agree with us in
    this opinion, we greatly err as prophets."

THE LIFE OF PAUL

  Prof. RUSH RHEES, President of the University of Rochester.

    Professor Rhees is well known from his series of "Inductive Lessons"
    contributed to the Sunday School Times. His "Outline of the Life
    of Paul," privately printed, has had a flattering reception from New
    Testament scholars.

THE HISTORY OF THE APOSTOLIC AGE

  Dr. C. W. VOTAW, Instructor in New Testament Literature, The
  University of Chicago.

    Of Dr. Votaw's "Inductive Study of the Founding of the Christian
    Church," Modern Church, Edinburgh, says: "No fuller analysis of
    the later books of the New Testament could be desired, and no better
    programme could be offered for their study, than that afforded in
    the scheme of fifty lessons on the Founding of the Christian
    Church, by Clyde W. Votaw. It is well adapted alike for practical
    and more scholarly students of the Bible."

THE TEACHING OF JESUS

  Prof. GEORGE B. STEVENS, Professor of Systematic Theology, Yale
  University.                                              [Now ready.

