"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can see without any tryin' that that man suffered. I pretty near stopped
'n' burnt jus' to listen to him. He says as he sit there plum beside hisself 'n' most cried
from not knowin' what under Heaven's name to do. He says he was placed most awful with winter
starin' him stark in the face 'n' no warm place to stay. He says nobody knows how it feels
to feel like he was forced to feel,--'nless they've been expectin' to be married 'n' then been
discharged themselves instead. He says he looked about most doleful 'n' wished he was dead
or anythin' that's warm, 'n' then he got down from the stack 'n' set on a old wagon tongue
'n' jus' tried to figger on if there was n't no way as he could think up as would make Tilly
have him. He says the bitter part was to reflect as he had to work to make Tilly have him,
when it 'd really ought by all rights to have been the other way. He says to think o' that
nose 'n' then him obliged to work 'n' slave to get hold of it!"

"I--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, he see it different," said Susan; "he says,--'n' I can't in reason see how any one as
knows as little as you, Mrs. Lathrop, can deny him,--he says as no one as gets married easy
at the end of courtin' can possibly figger on the difficulties of gettin' married hard. He
says it was jus' beyond belief the way he felt as he set there reflectin' on his wasted summer
'n' Tilly flippin' aroun' all unconcerned over him leavin' in the end. He says his blood begun
to slowly begin to boil as he set there thinkin', 'n' in the end he jus' up an' hit the wagon-tongue
with his fist 'n' said 'By Jinks!' 'n' he says when he says 'By Jinks,' it is the end, 'n'
don't you forget it.

"He says he 'd no sooner said 'By Jinks' than he thought of a plan, 'n' he says Lord forgive
him if he ever thinks of such another plan. He says what put it into his head Heaven only knows,
only o' course he never expected as it would work out as it did. He says he thought as she
'd see what he was up to 'n' stop him along half-way. But Oh, my, he says, you never can count
on a woman, 'n' then he rubbed his chin with his hand for a long time 'n' said all over again
'never can count on a woman.'

"Well, he says after he'd thought o' the plan he went right to work to carry it out. He says
it was one o' them plans as dilly-dally is death on. So he begun by makin' sure as she was
pastin' labels on pickle-jars in the back wood-house 'n' then he went out by the shed 'n' got
some old clothes-line as was hangin' there 'n' come round to where the bingin'-pole was 'n'
whittled notches in it 'n' tied a piece o' the line hard aroun' the end. He says all the time
he was tyin' he was countin' on her runnin' right out 'n' askin' him what under the sun he
was doin',--but she never budged."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, if you 'll keep still 'n' let me talk I 'll tell you," said Miss Clegg; "I had to keep
still while he told me, 'n' the Bible 's authority for sayin' as what man has done woman can
always do too if she has a mind to.--Well, he says then he bent the end of the pole around
'n' tied it hard to one of the uprights of the shed so it was sprung around in a terrible dangerous
manner 'n' he says when he got it all tied, he looked up at the window 'n' why she did n't
come out he can't to this day see. But she did n't--just stayed bobbin' around over her labels
'n' pastin'. Well, he says o' course he wa'n't in no hurry to go on to next part, so he dragged
the grin'stone out in plain view of her 'n' begun 'n' sharpened a hatchet most awful sharp.
He thought as the hatchet would bring her anyhow, but still she did n't come out,--jus' stuck
to her stickin' there in the window. I can't well see why he looked for her to come out because
my view would be as if you did n't want a man aroun', the more ropes an' hatchets he was inclined
to the more I 'd let him tie 'n' sharpen, but old Mrs. Ely was always another parts o' speech
from me. She never could eat her own chickens, they say, nor sausage her own pigs, 'n' I s'pose
he knowed her tender spots aforehand 'n' was layin' for 'em. Anyhow, to go back to him 'n'
the grin'stone, he says you can't under no circumstances keep on sharpenin' a hatchet forever,
'n' so after a while he had to go on to the next part. He says he was beginnin' to feel kind
o' shaky, but he took more line 'n' made a slip-noose 'n' tied it hard 'n' fast to the pole.
He says he looked up real bright 'n' hopeful then, but still she did n't come out, 'n' he says
he slid it up over his arm two or three times so she could n't but see as it was a noose too.
Oh, my, but he says he did begin to feel mad at her then,--he says it wa'n't in reason as any
man 'd be pleased at a woman's smilin' out of a window at him fixin' a noose in plain sight.
He says he 'll leave it to any one dead or alive to get into his skin 'n' enjoy the way he
was beginnin' to feel, but o' course he had to keep on with his plan, 'n' he says next he laid
the hatchet handy an' set down (Oh, my, but he says the ground sent up a cold chill up his
back!) 'n' tied his feet to the other upright. Well, he says that foot-tyin' was no joke, for
he says he must of took fifteen minutes to it, for he was jus' about wild by this time, not
knowin' what he would do if she did n't come out now. He says no one knows what it is to begin
a thing as you count on surely havin' stopped 'n' then not be stopped a tall. He says as the
sentiments as he begun to get was too awful for any ordinary words 'n' he would scorn to use
the words as could describe 'em even if he knowed any such. Well, he says, at last, when he
was through tyin' his feet, he turned 'n' looked at the window 'n' if she wa'n't gone to put
up the jars, so he had no choice but to sit there on that cold ground 'n' wait for her to come
back. He said he hoped I 'd never know what his feelin's was as he waited 'n' then he rubbed
his chin with his hand a long time 'n' said all over again, 'as he waited.' I told him it was
n't likely as I would, 'n' to look out for the cistern or he 'd know new feelin's 'n' a new
kind of waitin', so he had to hitch back by the table again 'n' then he took a long breath
before goin' on to the next part.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, he says when she come back from puttin' up the jars he jus' could n't
but feel as his hour was surely come. He says how he ever done it he never has seen since,
but he took up that noose 'n' put it over his head. He says as he did so he took a quick look
at the window 'n' seen her lookin', 'n' he says he jus' hoped surely she 'd give a scream now
'n' come runnin' out the kitchen-door. But he says she 'd disappointed him so often his heart
was like lead, 'n he felt bluer 'n he 's ever felt any other time in his life. He says he fixed
the noose all smooth around his neck for five minutes or so, 'n' then there was nothin' in
the wide world left for him to do but to take up that awful sharp hatchet.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I vow I was interested in spite of myself. His voice shook 'n' his hands
too jus' with rememberin'. I really felt to pity him--I did. He says he lifted the hatchet
'n' looked at the window tryin' to hope fully 'n' securely as this time she 'd surely come
out screamin' 'n' runnin'. 'N' she never screamed 'n' she never run! Oh, my, but he says he
was tremblin' from head to foot 'n' the cold sweat jus' poured over him. He says he took up
the hatchet 'n' held it quiverin' in his quiverin' hand, 'n' then he made a weak hack at the
rope as tied the pole to the upright. He says he see her nose in the window as he hacked 'n'
then he says no words can ever describe his feelin's when he suddenly learned as he 'd cut
the rope!--He says he never had no more idea o' hittin' the rope than he had o' hangin' himself,
'n' he said when he very quickly felt as he 'd done both nothin' can properly explain him!--He
says the newspapers don't have no idea a tall of how it feels or they 'd never print it so
cool 'n' calm. He says cuttin' the rope let the pole loose 'n' the noose ran up on him 'n'
choked him most terrible. My gracious, he says but carbolic acid 'n' Rough on Rats is child's
play beside that grip on your throat. He says he never will forget how it felt, not if he lives
to be Methusalem's great-grandfather. He says he got a most awful jerk from his head to his
heels too as nigh to broke his ankles, 'n' a twist in his wrist from the weight o' the hatchet,
but he said he did n't have no time to take no a'count o' nothin' just then but the way everythin'
turned red 'n' black 'n' run into his ears."

"Did it kill--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, much excited.

"I 'm goin' to tell you.--He says the last thing he knowed was Tilly's shriek. O' course when
he cut the rope she seen he 'd meant it all, 'n' so she grabbed up a carvin' knife 'n' yelled
to her father 'n' run. Old man Ely says it was good she run, for there was n't a minute to
lose. Old Pearson run too from where he was in the barn but Tilly got there first. She didn't
lose one second in sawin' him free at both ends 'n' he says he was so nigh to dead that first
he thought she was a gopher, 'n' then an angel. Oh, my, but he says he was dizzy at first,
'n' faint, 'n' queer in his ears. He sat 'n' thought about it all by himself for a long while
this mornin' afore he went on again. He says no one ever realizes how close they are to eternity
unless they accidentally go 'n' do suthin' so darn foolish as that.

"Well, he says, after a while, after a long, long while, he felt to get to the house, 'n' then,
he says, come one o' the strangest parts o' the story--the part as shows how everythin' turns
out for the best in the end. He says it's really most like a fairy-tale, 'n' jus' as if he
'd planned it all to order. Seems when he tried to get up 'n' walk to the house Tilly wanted
her father to help hold up his other side, 'n' she could n't see where her father was. She
started aroun' the shed to look for him 'n' there she found him stretched out flat.--Seems
when she cut Ely loose she let the pole fly roun' jus' in time to take her father in the legs
'n' there he laid, not dead, but in a way as showed right off as some one else 'd have to run
his farm from then on. Well, old man Ely says you need n't tell him as there ain't no All-wise
Providence after that, 'n' he rubbed his chin with his hand a long, long while 'n' shook his
head 'n' then said 'need n't tell him' all over again. He says he joined the church the very
next Sunday 'n' him 'n' Tilly was married in September like he 'd always planned. He says they
was very happy on the whole 'n' after a while Old Pearson got where he got around pretty well,
only for a crazy idea he had as suthin' unexpected was goin' to hit him sudden. He says he
had the idea so strong as he never was free from it while he was alive 'n' it was a mercy when
he died. He says as he see how good things can turn out, for, Tilly always jus' loved him half
to death 'cause he 'd loved her enough to cut that rope in two. He says he means her to have
a very handsome monument, 'n' if he ever marries again he shall keep her picture in the parlor
just the same."

"Do--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I think he 'll try to," said Miss Clegg, "but his other wife may not see it in the same
spirit, Mrs. Ely not bein' no great ornament, 'n' the farm is safe now anyhow."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop, further.

"Yes," said Susan, "I thought so myself but it did n't seem to strike him that way."

       *       *       *       *       *

                        THE WOLF AT SUSAN'S DOOR

PART FIRST

MISS CLEGG'S SPECULATIONS

