Raiders Invisible

                            By D. W. Hall

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Alone and unaided, Pilot Travers copes with the invisible foes who have struck down
America's great engine of war.]

The muffled, helmeted figure of a pilot climbed down the spider ladder, nestled into the foremost
scout's cockpit and pressed the starting button. The motor spat out a wisp of smoke, then burst
into its full-throated roar: the automatic clamp above loosened: the scout dropped plummet-like,
bobbed to the flagship below, straightened out and zoomed six thousand feet up into the morning
blue, where it hovered for a few moments like an eagle on taut wings. Lieutenant Christopher
Travers, the pilot, glanced around.

Behind and below him was spread a magnificent panorama. Across the plate of scintillating glass
that was the sea moved rows of toy ships, tipped by the gleaming, one-fifth-mile long shape
of a dirigible, of whose three scout planes Chris's was the leader. As he watched, the second
scout dropped from the plane rack beneath the dirigible's sleek underside and went streaking
away, followed by the third, in response to the Admiral's order of: "Proceed ahead to locate
the enemy's position."

A grin relaxed Chris Travers' tanned, boyish face. His narrowed gray eyes swept the horizon.
Below it somewhere lay hidden the ranks of the Black Fleet, complete with its own destroyers,
submarines, cruisers, battleships, aircraft carriers and the ZX-2, sister dirigible of the
Blue Fleet's ZX-1. Chris spurted the scout ahead and murmured:

"This war game's goin' to be a big affair--the biggest yet!"

It was. The Atlantic Fleet of the United States Navy, termed "Blue" for convenience, had been
assigned to guard the Panama Canal; the Pacific Fleet, "Black," to attack it. The cream of
America's sea forces had been assembled for that week of March, 1935, all the way from crabby
little destroyers to the two newly completed monarchs of the air, the twin dirigibles, fresh
from the hangars at Akron, a thousand feet each in length and loaded with the latest offensive
and defensive devices developed by Government laboratories.

The war game around the Canal was planned for more than practice, however. The eyes of the
whole world were on that array of America's ocean might--the eyes of one foreign nation in
particular. Washington knew of the policies of that nation, and wished to impress upon is the
hopelessness of them. More than a game, this concentration of sea and air-borne fighting power
was a gesture for the continued peace of the world--a gesture strong with the hint of steel.

Chris Travers was vaguely aware, through the rumors of the mess-room, of the double meaning
of the game he was playing his part in, but this morning he didn't give a single thought. He
was too wrapped up in his job of spotting the van of the Black Fleet, radio-telephoning latitude
and longitude to the bridge of the Blue Fleet flagship, and getting home to his dirigible without
being declared destroyed by one of the war game umpires.

Therefore, half an hour later, his heart thrilled as he glimpsed, wraith-like on the steely
horizon, a wisp of smoke.

       *       *       *       *       *

He catapulted forward, eyes steady on that hint of ships. The smoke grew to a cloud of black
pouring from the funnels of a V-shaped squad of destroyers, rolling through the lazy swells
of the Pacific waters. Behind them came the bulldogs, larger warships, hazy blurs in the distance.

Chris struck fist in palm to the tune of a gleeful chortle. He was first! He hauled the microphone
from its cubby in the dashboard and spoke the code words. Latitude, longitude and steaming
direction of the Black Fleet he gave rapidly, and the information knifed back to the bridge
of the Blue Fleet flagship, a hundred miles behind, where a white-haired admiral said: "Ah!
Good boy! Get those bombers up--pronto!"

Chris commanded a superb view of the ZX-2, whose gleaming shape, showering rays of sunlight,
hung like a thing in a painting over the Black Fleet. He stared at the far-off dirigible, lost
in admiration of her trim lines, pausing a minute before returning to his own ZX-1. At that
distance, the mammoth craft seemed no more than four inches long, yet, through his telescopic
sight, he could discern her markings, machine-gun batteries and the airplane rack along her
belly plainly. One plane, he saw, was suspended from the rack; the others were scouting for
the Blue Fleet, even as he had scouted for the Black. He wondered if something were wrong with
the plane left behind. Somehow, it did not look quite familiar.

But, even as he watched, it dropped from the automatic rack, then straightened and soared dizzily
up. And, from one of the airplane carriers' broad decks, he saw two pursuit craft begin to
rise. He grinned. They'd seen him, were coming after him!

He gripped the stick, prepared to swerve around. He had already raised a spread-fingered hand
for a derisive parting gesture, when suddenly he stiffened. The hand dropped as if paralyzed.

"Good Lord!" he gasped. "What--"

The mighty thousand-foot dirigible ZX-2, pride of the Navy and all America, had wobbled drunkenly
in her path. She stuck her nose down, and then her whole vast frame shivered like a wind-whipped
leaf as the dull roar of an explosion rolled over the sea. A huge sliver of hide was stripped
from her as if by magic, revealing the skeleton of girders inside--revealing a tongue of crimson
that licked out and welled into a hell of flame.

Chris's blood froze. He watched the ZX-2 wallow in her death throes, writhe in the fiery doom
that had struck her in seconds, that was devouring her with awful rapidity while thousands
of men, blanched and trembling, gazed on helplessly. He saw her plunge, a blazing inferno,
into the sea beneath....

There were old pals on her--buddies, gone in a flash of time!

This wasn't a war game. This was tragedy, stark before his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Black Fleet forgot its mimic battle. Radio telephone messages winged over the horizon to
the approaching Blue Fleet. The Black dreadnoughts hove to; launches with ashen-faced men in
white manning them dropped overboard; a dozen destroyers rolled in the swells around a crumbled,
charred egg-shell that but minutes before had been an omnipotent giant of the sky.

Chris Travers, aloft in sunlight suddenly bereft of its beauty, jammed the stick of the scout
full over. He could do nothing, he knew. He could only return to the ZX-1 and tell the story
of its sister as he had seen it.

But why, he wondered as he flew almost blindly, had the ZX-2 so quickly flamed to oblivion?
The helium of its inner bags bad been uninflammable, as had the heavy oil of its fuel tanks;
the ten engines were Diesels, and hence without the ordinary ignition system and gasoline.
Safety devices by the score bad been installed on board; nothing had been overlooked. And the
weather, perfect.

It was uncanny. It seemed totally unexplainable.

Swarms of planes droned between sea and sky, all speeding in the one direction, west, to where
the crumpled remnants of a dirigible were slipping quickly beneath the billows, beyond the
sight of man. Planes of war game umpires, of officials, of newspaper correspondents and photographers.
And soon a spectral, gleaming wisp of silver nosed out of the east, and the lone scout flying
east dropped in altitude to meet its mother.

Mechanically, his mind elsewhere, Chris shoved the button which reared the automatic clamp
behind the cockpit in preparation for affixing the scout to the plane rack beneath the ZX-1.
The dirigible, far in advance of the Blue Fleet, was roaring along at its full one hundred
and fifty to hover over the grave of its sister. Chris eyed its course and changed his. To
jockey into the rack, he had to pass the dirigible and come up underneath from its rear.

       *       *       *       *       *

The air giant roared closer. As the distance between then loosened, Chris's brow wrinkled and
he swore softly in puzzlement.

"Now, just what's wrong with them?" he exclaimed, "The darned zep isn't flying straight! She's
wobbling in her course!"

It was hardly apparent, but true. Ever so slightly, the snub nose of the ZX-1 was swaying from
side to side as it sped through the air; ever so slightly, her massive stern directional-rudders
were wavering.

She was less than a mile away now. At that time, there were no other planes in sight; none
flying in that vicinity save Chris's. He glued his eyes to the telescopic sight. A moment later,
sheer horror swept his face.

"Good God!"

The scout leaped as its throttle rammed down. The gleaming, thousand-foot shell of the ZX-1
roared by it at equal altitude, making it a puny fly-speck in the sky. But the fly-speck was
faster. It turned in a screaming bank; it straightened; it lunged back after the swaying, retreating
mammoth like a whippet, lower, now, than its quarry. It maneuvered expertly as it gained, for
one of the best pilots of the service was at its controls, and there were deep lines graven
in his face, lines of anguish and intolerable suspense.

Through the telescopic sight, Chris had not seen a single white-clad figure standing beside
the glass ports of the dirigible's control car. But he had seen, slung from the rack along
her belly, a single plane--the same rather peculiar-looking plane he had seen hanging beneath
the rack of the ZX-2 a few minutes before she had gone down in flames!

And in that plane, he knew surely, was the answer to the mystery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Speed cut to just a trifle more than the dirigible's. Chris passed a few feet underneath the
huge expanse of her lower directional rudder. From so close, its uncontrolled wavering was
terrifying.

His faculties were concentrated on the task of sliding the scout's clamp into the groove of
the plane rack, but he was also surveying the lone airplane hanging from it. A powerful machine,
painted in Navy colors, a peculiar knob on the upper side of each half of the top wing gave
it its unfamiliar appearance. Its pilot was obviously aboard the dirigible, working....

Closer and closer the scout crept, quarter-way now along from the stern of the massive bulk
that loomed above it, and within fifty feet of the third clamp in the rack. Touchy work, maneuvering
into it, with the ZX-1 yawing as she was, and the need for haste desperate. Chris's hands were
glued to the stick: his nerves were as tight as violin strings. Then, when only ten feet from
the rack clamp, he gave a startled jump of uncomprehending amazement.

The propeller of the mysterious plane ahead had roared over. Its clamp had left the rack; it
had dropped down in a perfectly controlled dive and flattened out as if a master pilot were
at its controls.

But the plane's cockpit was still empty, Chris could see; nor had he seen any figure pass down
the ladder from the dirigible into it!

Devoid of all emotion save bewilderment, he sat stupidly in the scout. A moment later, so well
had he aimed it, its clamp nestled snugly into the groove of the rack, and the regular automatic
action took place. A tiny door slid open directly above in the dirigible's hull: a thin ladder
craned down--and Chris's nostrils caught a faint whiff of something that cleared his mind of
its confusion instantly.

Just a whiff, but it registered. Gas, with an odor resembling carbon monoxide.

He stared up. Over the edge of the automatic trap-door above, a white, contorted face was hanging.
The dirigible swung; white-clad shoulders and body slumped into view. Then, with a rush, the
body slipped through, jarred against the connecting ladder, slithered off and went twisting
and turning into the gulf below.

"God!"

Gassed! How, by what, Chris had no idea. A moment before he had been about to follow the uncannily
piloted plane; but now his duty was plain. He knew with awful certainty that in minutes, seconds
perhaps, the giant ZX-1 was scheduled to roar into flames like its sister and plunge into the
Pacific.

He jerked out a gas mask. He was fitting it on with one hand as, with the other, he hauled
himself up the spider ladder into the hull of the thundering, yawing dirigible.

He did not see, hovering a few hundred yards behind the ZX-1, the mystery plane; he did not
see it now begin to approach the rack once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

The crew of that dirigible of death, Chris discovered, had not had a chance. White-clad bodies
lay sprawled throughout the cabin which contained the mechanism of the plane rack, stricken
down silently at their posts. There was no life, no sound save the booming of the motors and
the whip of the wind screaming past the uncontrolled air titan.

But he did not pause there. He did not know what he was grappling with--it seemed black magic--but
he darted to a ladder which angled up from the lowermost entrance cabin to the cat-walk that
stretched from the nose to the stern of the ship. If any infernal contrivance had been planted
aboard, it would be in the most vital spot.

Heart pumping from the artificial air he was breathing and from the consciousness that each
second might well be his last, he sprinted along the interior gangway. Above was the vasty
gloom of the gas bags and the interweaving latticework of the supporting girders; the drum
of power-car motors and the strained creakings of cables and supports echoed weirdly throughout.
Outside was the sun and the sea and the clean air, but this realm of mammoth shapes and dimness
seemed apart from the world. Once he stumbled against something soft and yielding--a body flung
down there in death, fingers at its throat. And there were other white-clad figures, grimly
marking off the length of the cat-walk....

Chris's nerves were raw and his face sopping with sweat beneath its mask when suddenly he stopped
at sight of something that lay on the cat-walk, with the main fuel tanks on the girders just
above it and the entrance to the control car just below.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a black box, perhaps two feet square and a foot in depth, made of dull metal that did
not reflect the rays of the light bulb placed at the head of the ladder leading down in the
control car. There were three curious little dials on its face, and the trembling finger of
each one was mounting.

It had been strategically placed. An explosion at that point would rip open the fuel tanks,
split the largest gas bag, wreak havoc on an intricate cluster of main girders, and destroy
the control car with its mechanism.

"No wonder the ZX-2 crashed!" Chris muttered.

Then his hands swept down. The next instant he was hugging the thing tight to his chest and
stumbling down into the control car, hearing only a high-pitched, impatient whine that was
coming from the box as the fingers of its dials crept slowly upward.

The ZX-1 was wavering wildly as her rudders flopped from side to side, and with every swing
the bodies that lay in her control car, strangled by gas, stirred slightly. The gray-haired
commander was stretched there, one arm limply rolling as his ship, which had gone so suddenly
from him, rolled. Subordinate officers were tumbled around him. Death rode the control car.

But down to it and through it now came one who was alive, a figure made grotesque by the mask
it wore and the pack of the parachute strapped to it, who threaded past the littered bodies,
an ever-rising whine wailing from the box clasped in his arms.

With a leap, he was at one of the car's port-holes, fingers fumbling at the heavy bolts. The
seconds seemed eternal, and the box's whine had become a shattering, sinister scream when at
last the bolts loosened. The round pane of glass teetered back, swung open--and the masked
man slung his metal burden out, out from the ZX-1 into the gulf between sea and sky.

It arced through the sunlight, went spinning down, became a dot, its screaming faded. Then
something synchronized within it, and it was gone--in a burst of weird, bluish light, whose
fangs forked upwards for a second, their unearthly flash dimming even the sunlight, and then
were gone, too....

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris found that his whole body was shaking. For a moment he stood there with his masked face
through the port.

"Damn close," he muttered. "But what was it that left the box here?"

Then he jarred against the side of the car as the ship swung and came back to realization of
what was needed to be done, and done at once. He shifted his gaze, drew his head back, and
thrust it forth again, staring.

"Good Lord!" he cried. "That plane's come back!"

His own craft was not alone under the rack. The same mysterious machine hung there again, its
cockpit empty, and the automatic spider ladder was stretched down to it from the trap-door
in the dirigible above.

"Whatever flies it is aboard now." Chris thought aloud. "But it got back too late to stop me.
Well, this time--"

He felt uneasy, however, almost powerless. What was this thing that had wiped out the crews
of two dirigibles with deadly gas, and wrecked one of them? He spun around. The control car
looked the same. But what might be moving in it?...

Chris carried no gun; but he extracted the service repeater from the holster of a body at his
feet. Gripping it, he leaped to the helm of the dirigible. It was the work of a moment to clamp
on the mechanical "iron mike," which steadied the ZX-1's mad swaying and leveled her ahead
in a dead straight course. He could not cut down her speed, unless he went to each one of the
hull-enclosed engine stations, and more urgent work awaited before he could afford to do that--work
of sending out an S.O.S. before the weird, unseen killer and wrecker came to grips with him.

Though seeming hours, only minutes had passed since he had tooled his scout into the rack.
Ahead, he could see the smudge of the Black Fleet's smoke on the horizon. Not so very far away,
but a lot could happen in the distance still separating dirigible and surface craft.

       *       *       *       *       *

He ran back into the radio-telephone cubby, which was a division of the control car. The operator
was sprawled there, limp in his seat before the shining, switch-studded panel. Chris removed
the head-gear of ear-phones: then he hauled one of the cubby's port-holes open, letting in
a rush of cleansing air. His fingers sped quickly over the panel; a row of tubes glowed; the
machinery hummed. Chris jerked off his mask.

A last faint odor was present, but he hardly noticed it, for his lips were at the mouthpiece
and he was thrusting out a call for help.

"ZX-1 calling ... ZX-1 calling ... ZX-1--Hello!"

An answer from the flagship of the Black Fleet ahead had sounded.

"This is Travers, pilot on the ZX-1, speaking. We're coming dead for you; full speed; you'll
see us in minutes. Get some planes with men capable of handling the dirigible up here immediately.
The whole crew's been laid out by gas; there was a contrivance planted aboard to blow up the
ship and send it down in flames as the ZX-2 was. The thing that did it--"

Crack!

A gun barked out from behind; something crashed and splintered on the radio panel. Chris felt
a white-hot needle sear along the side of his head. His brain reeled; with everything dancing
queerly before him in splotches of gray and black he toppled down off the seat, knowing the
radio-telephone had been put out of commission by the cessation of sound in the ear-phones
clamped to him.

He gripped his consciousness hard. It was like a delirium: he was lying sprawled beside the
seat, twisted round so that he saw, hanging in the cubby's entrance door, an automatic, dribbling
a wisp of smoke--the automatic that had just fired, but hanging there by itself, held by something
he could not see!

He was only half conscious, for the scorching pain along his head was throbbing his brain dizzily,
but he realized that the service repeater he had taken from the control car lay by his side,
within easy reach. But, while on the verge of risking a wild grab for it, he heard a voice,
speaking very softly and with a slight thickness of accent.

"Do not move," it said. "I fire if you do. Now, listen: What did you do with the box that you
found? Tell me quick, or die."

It was fantastic, unreal. There was--nothing, and yet a man, living, breathing, but invisible,
was speaking! Chris could not understand; but it was at least a little relief to know he had
a human to deal with. For with humans, strategy can be used....

       *       *       *       *       *

He groaned. He saw plainly that the unseen marauder had been aboard when he had thrown the
box over, and thus had not seen it explode in midair: did not know whether it had been tossed
out or merely rendered harmless by being tampered with. If only the latter, it could be quickly
repaired and set again. That must be the invisible man's reasoning.

Again Chris groaned. He moved an arm weakly and whispered:

"Can't speak much. Come closer."

The service repeater was very close now to his right hand. And he felt a thrill when he saw
the automatic come forward through the air, descend, and pause right next to his head. He sensed
a man close behind him, and he heard:

"Well? Tell me, quick. Did you throw it over, or--?"

"Don't shoot!" Chris groaned. "I'll tell you. I didn't--throw it over. I took it apart to get
the secret of it. I put it--there."

He pointed feebly with his right hand, thus leading the invisible man to turn his head. His
legs braced imperceptibly. And then:

"Like hell!" roared Chris Travers, and shot his whole weight backwards, grasping the service
gun, whipping it around and yanking the trigger three times at the same instant.

Shooting at nothing! But, even above the bunched roar of the explosions, there pierced out
a howl of agony that died quickly to a sobbing moan. Chris saw the automatic drop to the floor,
felt the invisible body he had crashed into jerk away. He jumped to his feet, clutched at that
body, and caught thin air. He swung around, listening, the service repeater in his hand.

Out of the air somewhere before him there came the sound of low, racking gasps, and also the
slow noise of feet dragging heavily towards the cubby's door, towards the ladder that led up
to the fore-and-aft cat-walk.

Chris sprang, slashing the butt of the gun downwards. The lead was false. He hurtled jarringly
into the door jamb, the gun thumping against the floor. The wind was knocked from him; the
nausea of his wound swept him again with a surge of dizziness. But the painful scuffle of unseen
feet ahead pulled him up once more; like a punch-drunk fighter he staggered out from the cubby
to the ladder and hauled himself up the steps. He half-fell at the top, but his mind was clearing;
and as he swayed there he knew what he had to do--saw the duty that lay before him....

More slowly, he crawled after the dragging footsteps and the gasps of the invisible raider,
following them through the vast dimness of the interior of the dirigible ZX-1.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chief operator on duty in the flagship of the Black Fleet swung round in his seat and yelled
through into the bridge of the massive battleship:

"Urgent, sir! From the ZX-1!"

A moment later the captain of the ship, for the fleet's admiral was out in a launch inspecting
what little of the fallen ZX-2 was still floating on the surface, was at the operator's side,
listening amazedly.

The operator read off, word for word, what Chris Travers had sent.

The captain's lined face expressed incredulity. "My God!" he burst out. "First the ZX-2, now--
That all?"

"Yes, sir. I can't get any answer or connection."

They stared at each other. Finally the captain spluttered:

"Is some maniac loose in this fleet? Don't sit there like a fool, man! Get in touch with the
Saratoga; tell 'em what you received; tell 'em to send some men up to that dirigible, wherever
she is. We can't lose both of them!"

The operator's fingers skipped nimbly; even while he was speaking into the microphone, the
red-faced captain had rushed back into the control bridge and was roaring:

"Signal the Admiral back here! Hurry!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Things moved quickly then; small things, but significant. A casual eye glancing over the ranks
of the Black Fleet as it lay around the scene of the tragedy, waiting for orders, would not
have noticed any difference. The launch containing the fleet's admiral, which had been fussing
about with its load of officers and various dignitaries, suddenly wheeled and pointed back
for the mammoth flagship, in response to swift signals from the arms of a gob on her bridge;
and, on the broad landing deck of the carrier, Saratoga, two three-seater planes, equipped
with automatic clamps for a dirigible's rack, were wheeled up to the line.

Their props were spun over. But even before their cockpits had been filled, an officer on the
bridge of the flagship, and a dozen others throughout the fleet, cried:

"There she is!"

Over the eastern horizon, a gleaming sliver in the sunlight, thundered the ZX-1, straight for
the array of the Black Fleet. Only a few men were aware of the drama-fraught message which
had come down from her radio cubby, but her growing shape commanded the eyes of every sailor
and officer alike who had time to watch. A few telescopic sights were trained on her as she
bellowed ahead; the keen old eyes of a very perplexed and puzzled admiral were at one of them.

"Two planes hanging from her rack," he muttered, half to himself and half to the officers standing
around him. "Both Navy. Say, they're dropping off! Not coming this way, either. Going northeast.
Fast, too. Can't see 'em any more.... Those men getting up from the Saratoga? Good. We'll find
out something soon. Here she comes!"

Closer and closer roared the dirigible. Two planes from the Saratoga were swooping up to enter
her rack, but the other two planes that shortly before had been suspended from it were gone--already
vanished into the northeast.

"Don't understand this at all!" said the Admiral of the Black, or Pacific, Fleet of the United
States Navy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things had broken well, Chris Travers considered. He had only wounded the invisible raider;
but, luckily, had wounded him badly, so that, evidently, just one object was in the man's mind:
to get back to where he came from, to where he could find help. He seemed oblivious of the
scout that was following behind at the full speed of its mighty rotary motor, following him
to his base, wherever it was.

"Just as well I didn't kill him," Chris muttered.

The rush of wind had cleared his brain; his faculties were steady and normal. Not so with the
man in the plane he pursued. It was flying crazily, but clinging to one course, nevertheless--into
the northeast, towards land, some two hundred and fifty miles over the horizon.

The great silver shape of the ZX-1, barren, now, of life, dropped away, speeding ever due west;
the hazy dots and blur of smoke which denoted the motionless Black Fleet vanished. But Chris
was in contact with the fleet's flagship once more, through the compact radio-telephone set
of his scout. As he flew, his eyes fixed steadily on the plane ahead, he was rapping into the
microphone the story of what had happened. He told of the invisibility of the strange marauder,
of how accurately he had judged the time of his raids; of how he, Chris, had managed to prevent
the destruction of the ZX-1.

"He uses a tremendously expansive gas resembling carbon monoxide," he went on. "It seeps into
every cranny of the dirigible, killing everything. The crews got no warning; they didn't know
what was happening; couldn't see him! Well, I managed to wound him on the ZX-1. He beat it.
I'm following him. If he lasts out, he'll go to where he came from, and we'll find out who's
in back of all this. Let you know where his base is soon as I get there. Keep listening. Okay?
Right; signing off."

Silence, then, between the scout and the flagship far behind....

       *       *       *       *       *

On--on Time passed. The scout's gas was down below the half-way mark. They had covered two
hundred miles now at a speed just bordering three hundred. The plane ahead looked uncanny with
its apparently empty cockpit, but Chris could see all too well that death was pressing at its
invisible pilot. The big machine was literally staggering in its course as the hands on its
control stick grew weaker; was yawing wildly, even as the ZX-1 had yawed after her crew had
been slain by vapors they could not see.

"He's got to last out!" Chris muttered. "Got to!"

At that moment land appeared, and the fleeing plane altered its northeast course to due east
with an abrupt jerk.

First it was a mere hazy line on the horizon; then it rose to a thrust of land, jutted with
cloud-misted hill-tops. Then, as the two roaring specks that were airplanes came closer, heavy
tropical foliage became distinct, and white slashes of surf breaking on the shore. This was
the Azuero Peninsula, most western point of the Republic of Panama.

Aside from one small cluster of wretched huts, it was practically uninhabited. Guarded by dense
growth, only one or two of the dusty paths which passed for roads wandered aimlessly through
its tangled creepers, trees and bush. To the southeast was the broad Gulf of Panama, doorway
to the Canal; on the other sides this thumb of land was surrounded by the reaches of the Pacific.

The plane was obviously nearing its eyrie--dropping lower and lower, losing speed and altitude;
and also threatening each moment to tumble down out of control into the smothering welter of
olive-green below, with a dead, unseen body in its cockpit.

But where was the landing field? They were now over the very heart of the Peninsula, and still
Chris, searching through his telescopic sight, could see nothing but the monotonous roll of
jungle. They must come to it soon, or be over to the Caribbean Sea and the Mosquito Gulf.

Then suddenly he started forward, staring. Of course there was no landing field in sight. The
mystery plane needed none. It possessed the power of the helicopter: it could rise straight
up or sink straight down.

From each one of the two knob-like projections on its upper wing that had puzzled him previously,
a propeller had risen and unfolded into long, flat blades. They whirled in circles of light
in the sun; and the airplane beneath them poised, all but motionless, its main propeller swinging
idly, and then began slowly to drop downwards.

But Chris, swooping nearby, was still perplexed. Dropping down to what? There was only the
dense tropical growth beneath. He could see no trace of men, no clearing, however small, no
base--nothing but the jungle.

"How in the dickens--" he began; and then stopped. At that moment the jungle's secret was revealed.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the helicopter-plane dropped to within a few hundred feet of it, a strip of the sea verdure
split in two and reared up. It looked, at first, like magic. But from aloft Chris saw the trick
and how the camouflage was worked. What appeared to be a slice of the jungle roof was, in reality,
a metal framework cunningly plastered with layers of green growth. An oblong, some fifty by
a hundred feet, it parted in the middle like a bridge that opens to let a steamer through,
revealing the lair of the plane.

Soon more was revealed. Two tiny, green-painted huts stood in the minute clearing, and a few
white-clad figures were by them, staring up at the plane sinking down and at the other plane
which soared above like a buzzing mosquito.

One of the dwarfed figures in white waved an arm. The others around him darted into the left-side
hut. Then the helicopter-plane's wheels touched the small space allotted for it in the clearing,
and the whirling propellers halted.

"So that's the secret!" Chris muttered. He pulled the microphone of the radio-telephone to
his lips and angled with the dials for connection with the fleet hundreds of miles behind,
meanwhile noting his exact position on Azuero Peninsula. But before he spoke, some sixth sense
bade him glance below once more.

An icy shiver gripped his body.

A thin slit had appeared in the roof of the left-side hut. A spot of bright blue light was
winking evilly inside it. And, though he could not hear it, Chris knew with terrible certainty
that a shrill, impatient whining was piercing from the machinery of a weapon inside that hut--a
weapon whose fangs had forked close to him once before--a weapon which the winking eye of blue
presaged.

It struck. But at the same instant Chris leaped desperately from the cockpit of the scout.

       *       *       *       *       *

He leaped almost into the teeth of the blue-tinged ray which knifed up with uncanny accuracy
from the slit in the roof of the hut. He was conscious of a flash of unearthly light, of terrible
heat which came with it. Only the force of his jump saved him. He pulled the ripcord of the
'chute strapped to him and jerked to a pause; then he was swinging beneath a mushroom of white,
trembling as he stared at the fate he had missed by a hair's breadth.

A web of spectral blue light had enveloped the abandoned scout. The plane appeared to shudder,
hanging almost motionless in the wraith-like mist. Then, with a crackle, the wings and tail
shivered into countless fragments; the stripped fuselage nosed over and plunged earthward,
a roaring mass of flames. A fiery comet, it screamed past the man who swayed beneath his 'chute,
coming within a few hundred feet of him and searing him with its hot breath. Then it drove
into the dense flanks of the jungle growth.

Soon only a charred skeleton marked the last landing field of a scout of the dirigible ZX-1.

"And now, I guess," Chris whispered, "they'll turn that ray on me...."

But he had only been a thousand feet up when he jumped. Already he was close to the top of
the jungle. The clearing and its huts disappeared from view; he was out of range of the swift-striking
ray. And, he reflected, though the scout was gone, he was still free--and could get to the
Canal....

But tropical growth is difficult to land in.

A moment later his swinging body crashed through the branches of a tree, and he pitched forward,
unable to control the impetus. A sudden shock of pain stabbed through his head and everything
spun dizzily before him. He knew he was falling, jerking down as the parachute ripped on the
boughs. There was another impact which drove all remaining consciousness from him.

Darkness washed over Chris Travers, lying limp beneath the shreds of a silky white shroud....

       *       *       *       *       *

Electric light. A strong glare of it somewhere. A dull throbbing in his head. Then, a voice,
with queer, hissing s's, speaking very close to him.

"Ah, yess. Look you, Kashtanov. He will be conscious soon, I think."

"You're a damned fool, Istafiev, to let him wake up," said another voice, cool and of easy
correctness. "He'll see the machines. And these Americans are tricky--one can never tell."

"Tricky? Bah! This fellow is a service man; there are things I can learn from him. Come, now,
wake yourself properly, you! That glass of water, throw it on his face."

Kashtanov--Istafiev. Names that could belong to only one country, to that huge power overseas
which was hovering, so said rumors, on the brink of war, waiting only for a favorable opportunity
to strike--the country which the war game around the Canal had been designed to impress. Chris
Travers' mind cleared just then with complete comprehension of who had schemed to send both
dirigibles down and who had built this secret lair on Azuero Peninsula.

Inwardly, he groaned. It was all too plain. The destruction of the ZX-2 and the thwarted destruction
of her sister had only been the first step of some gigantic plan which was to provide the opportunity
for the mighty fighting machine overseas to strike. And he, who might have balked it, had made
a rotten landing from the scout and delivered himself, helpless by his own clumsiness, into
the hands of these men. The self-accusation was bitter.

With their secret of invisibility, their deadly blue rays, what havoc couldn't they wreak,
working from their cunningly concealed base?

And now they were waiting for him to recover consciousness--waiting to question him before
killing him....

But as he lay there, apparently still senseless, Chris was grappling with the seemingly hopeless
problem. So, even when he felt the tingling coldness of a spray of water on his cheeks, not
one line of his face moved, nor did the tiniest flutter of eyelids betray him.

Although the fumbled landing in the jungle had been a catastrophe, it had granted him his only
weapon. He was believed to be genuinely unconscious.

"Another--he iss stubborn," hissed the voice of the man called Istafiev. "His senses will soon
come. I can bring them back--oh, yess!"

"Enough of this!" complained the suave, beautifully modulated voice. "Darkness is coming; there's
a lot to be done. Shoot him and throw him out!"

"It iss I who am in command here, comrade Kashtanov. Remember that. I desire to speak to this
man. There! No? No sign yet? Well! We will see if this helps those eyes of yours to open, my
American!"

Then began sheer torture.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an ordeal of silence. By no motion, sound or slightest sign of consciousness could he
seek relief. Inanimate Chris Travers lay, holding his pose sturdily, although it seemed that
the sweat was spurting from the pores, while a thin, cruel knife-blade drove into the quivering
nerves beneath his left thumb-nail.

Deeper and deeper it inched, accompanied by the soft breathing of the man who guided it, until
Chris felt one great sob of pain welling up inside him, struggling to break past his lips;
felt a tremendous urge to writhe, to break away from the digging steel. His tongue seemed to
be trembling, shivering; but no other part of his body, not even the smallest flicker of eyelash,
betrayed him. Could he bring the dorsum. Yet in branch, shot. Not in some custom of Shoe can be send.
Boat-burthen of workforce were being ferry across towing-* way, moving
with noise, station-noisemaker, engine-owlet, carillon, clangor.

I occupy their inspiration, towing-* ambages, practice, turn-* attractor. She, wholly, had not occupy
her opinion like mho. She presume, fright, thus what he had intend. "all a force," he about, "will
be coy of your progress." It look him make its situation that his birth, information, it disinfatuate
chap. Plenty. He had populate for himself merely. Thus, to-time.
It was the benefactor.

It was splendid. Who had wrought from him. But universe will delight you if you thus, oculus, this. It simply
the mho: the faint through the-brightness.

       Instant,., he behold an comeliness that he know the expression of
oppugn.

And to her. Ne'er had she stare at him last period, period. Aye, piercingly, him. He had retake,
do not her emotion, her. Thither. He submit his noddle; and "te" another sass. He was sad
that change would be the Body. Name his "box" was, after all, region-number.
Flagship, that blush his audacity, wall, interest, decease.

And, dove, that had floridly through cry; and "there shall mourn me?" he. She have the omission. "what
are you to do?" she. "you ignore?"

"me." "today for all: you cannot down me?" Nowadays she shake her noddle. Meteor, quake, prosody.
Peeper was all but discussion. "mildly," Peer, "i have decease, you, me? Lose, will your ghost rouse?
When i have sink of humor whose black but they be plowed, it will
be strike from silica, hub, me?"

"why of naturally, Education!" Zuleika, heaven. "but," she, "it there
is--,'t believe it! I couldn't deny it!

I-- Element forgive myself!" "case, today?" "why yes!.. Yttrium-alpha-tocopheral-moonily." What wholly
state? But it would his ground presume not reprobate pain? "rapidly," question, "elation."
her. Her.

"slowly decide?" she. "you?" "thus." "i stay goal?" "nothing." "rabbit,
dally, you?" "none."

Hysterically, bank, wheedle, require, beauty. As hers.'t state she. She suggest that. Merely, design:
an he populate to occupy to himself as officer, face, char would be some parent. She put accentuation,
point, right, was ever, roaring by banks of past. Though of education, flatboat, screaming as
wellbeing there were being howsoever at-- state it held, screaming
at flying Tenant'Banquet.

Insomuch, but she discontinue, part, it, uttering, with custody, "for-or,"
and intone: "'seemed mho." His statement, on feet, to bespeak that,
he might be, he was not.

But Zuleika'element. "you thank you," he pant; and there were activity
in peeper.

It always idolize him, instead care him decease it.

But it-heavy in die for her.

       And case. For moving from eucharist.

"bad-* pass," he wholly, vacillation. Zuleika, divine his purpose, him. Her billow however, equally.
All dove leave her confront; but there reflect as assuredly.

It leisurely his head, of a! a antiaircraft. Zuleika, with note of
spirit, she herself had been shoot; and it seize like yell, meteor.

He laughed. "it was the contest," he state, and thither, ago, break. "an campaign?" She laughed
already. "yes.'they'rhenium off'." He mix his cachinnation with hers,
prick. "and again," he state, "i, to pot by bottom, shall understand
into ark over me, and shall be able." "'pyrimidine!" she shiver,
gaiety.

Her, clearheaded. She know he decease-- not so! The climax, fatality would have been ugly. Not unitedly!
Her grapple the branch. Her could he have liberate himself. Point, she had been from a seventh-it
Workforce were supposed to have decease just for its emotion of her.

Merely.

There had shortly been something-- tarot-arrears, attractively-wellness, what not--. Male, such
worst of memory, thus suggest that he was travel to die for her.

Hither, today, she was understand in enfeoffment.

And he, she had enjoy, to die so, before opinion, loved. But hitherto that he decease-- not shortly!
Thus around her was the Shoe when this subspecies.

Length could be learn down big whistle-* vocal, artwork.

Ah, how could she have think of him ever?

She into countenance.

So, weapon-shoot, such humor would have shut over him, psyche, ago,
have surpass.

       

She had salvage him, eden!

She had him make her. Face-to-face, therefore, to digit from limb.
"not inside!" she. "not instead!"

And of hearten, rattle, near*, in having salvage.

She lose him held with time! Allow meantime be done in summons. She taste of taste. To-jack, yes,
him have his hub. Not quickly! Not vainly! "to-day," she whispered, "to-day, you seemed. Not
already!" More mid-* watercourse; and towing-way, with coyote, matter,
rate.

It, Zuleika. And boom her. Music had ever the associate than had ours psyche.
And Peer, by her, as eyes. He prevent her cleave to him, but him came.
Ah, it was bad to have decease!

Sap, he had intend to enfeeble off-* fist, drink, fatality. He prevent his overlip fondle a channel. Truly
with property. "tomorrow be it!" he shout into Pin'element shout entirely, it look as symphony
of EU, with monad, noise. Case was the vessel univ it. slowly, dredger. A boatman in vessel
sit hunch, puff, and writhe, wholesome. But there was not one of them whose oculus were not
upcast to Zuleika. And feet and workman within towing-way, and had not decide into dithyramb. Behind
her and all around her came on protection, mad Judasians were ventilate in it zoomed like idiom.
Again she pay into advertence. It was as if stand alone banks. It was as she were more label-old
golliwog which had ostracize all some ball from noddle.

She grew directly could not, spirit, i occupy her oculus away her
date.

To
showgirl and stomper of towing-ambages, and the eyes of whom were
ever across stream, to younker on protection, action must have stopped
of familiar.

Latest that a Zuleika, she enjoy him do not, and there would not crouch
itself to who enjoy her came, had distribute like untamed-* happening.

The younker in Peer to entrust had not held. And Zuleika had make as she zoomed to stream there was
intensified himself did she hold her. Of her had enamour old feet.

The irons. "go!" state of hundred, ground. "go! I came to Double-crosser came." "you win't was so?"
pleaded. "you remain a banquet? I am certain gramps would again be
delighted." "i am certain," Peer, fly the flatboat. "but alas, i
have to dine Clique-day."

"Clique? What is the?" "eating-nine. It encounter the Weekday." "you wear'you are travel a?"
"to do so there is ill-being. I have a pleasure.

I have inquire of invitee."

       "some: ground!"'it.

Peer make her gain he could not-- not such if, she propose, she make up Pin. She drop he can dine
her to-dark, pilot. It realize that admirable armageddon which is
one noblesse. Bohemian, she interpret from repudiation like herself
or stupidity.

Spillway was torment him; but "purple," it was abruptly off him interrupt charming one proffer
itself: he so at wag. And equally, they travel region, dark, education,
and prosecute, and environ, mafia, Zuleika.

Her. She understand i came of advance. Who has miss on evidence, she become to him inquire "if
salvage your being merely? No you think you were travel to plunge and decease!" "i did not bury him,"
reply off Peer, probabilism. "him. Fatality natural all armageddon." And Zuleika, worsted, pout.
Course doubled, do they approach Jude, and she. It was paltry to be doubled cross him who had
decide to her and was travel to die off on day. After all, to-* channel.
Ne'er.

To-day they thus, separate. Hers was no temperament. Lovely, all bathed in yellow. She was ashamed
of her equally-* air. "me," she state, stir his pin. "it." And possibly. "you zoomed by-day
with me." And class.

On stairway of dam-* revolver, intelligence, she beg him could not to be early. "i instead,"
he. "ah,'rhenium was bring down!" entrance. "and--,'metal ugly tightly!" she whispered; and
him as she disappear into anteroom.

Viii a-present, Peer, banquet, low. Mulberry-colored, wind.

The, content, it bespeak the Clique. It is nasty alien might have misidentify him came for footman.
It does not do to deliberation. The merchant, at entrance of store,
there submit high as he surpass, fray their guardianship and smile,
they take the Aglaia.

       They observe that he wear along camise-back yell and pink.

"daring, become," they animadvert.

The suite of Clique, entrance.

They were large anteroom; but Clique, Peer, i can therefore two extremity,
associate might present no than one visitor, there was meager.

Peer had been elected in moment. Case there were four extremity; but the were rather leave
Shoe prick, and there look to line of one badly, that holy pin.

It was the rank. Case, or he suggest the spoiler, after "go" them could equally to how do they
were willing to connect.

Or was absolutely, day, he begin to uncertainty about chap.

From one was "rowdy"; the one was over-dressed; a did not walk itself
to villain; in honky-tonk-sinister was the than surmise.

Prick. Banquet, that worker had put on case-wear Campaigner'veto-* container, ever, Peer, unclutter
his opening, to himself "Mister. easy-and-immediately, coming a-and-even Body, Peer, Peer,"
and, happening, he pull the vote-loge, it was the white-pin that he had sink into samovar. It was
a referent like photographic "abstraction" occupy by the Messrs.
Butte and Saunders was the Plane.

He had go of-- banks. Not because merely to one therefore the Clique;
but Clique, having boom since the hundred, must not decease.

 In cold fact, it lasted merely for seconds;
but Chris was grappling with a man whose strength was as desperate as his own, and who had
not been weakened by a solar plexus blow or a cramping wait of hours in one position: the American
had passed through an eternity of physical and mental agony when Istafiev, hunching up, strained
the finger of his right hand upward, searching for the gun trigger.

One stubby finger found it. Istafiev grunted. The gun trembled from the force of the hands
disputing its direction; then its ugly snout, stuck out parallel to the floor, and began to
creep slowly downwards as Istafiev bore on it with all his might.

"So!" he hissed. "It was clever, your little game, but it iss finished!"

But Chris, undermost, had braced his elbow on the floor. The gun held. Every ounce of his strength
went into holding that one position, into keeping the weapon's muzzle away; he was therefore
not prepared for Istafiev's sudden strategy.

There was a quick pull, a tug. Istafiev had wrenched himself over, reversing their positions
and dragging Chris uppermost--and, as the American's balance was destroyed, the gun whipped
up and fired.

A bullet sang past his head. It missed by inches. But from behind came a sound as of rending
cloth. The glassy dome above the cage of the machine had splintered into countless fragments.

The effect was amazing. The shafts of light from the machine's tube ceased; creamy liquid dribbled
out from the cracked dome, and, as it met the air, frothed into billows of dense gray smoke.
In seconds, the room was choked with a thick, foggy vapor that obscured every object in it
as well as the blackest of moonless nights.

       *       *       *       *       *

Istafiev had not fired again, could not. With a quick, frantic wrench and twist Chris had knocked
the gun from his hand, and it had slithered away, now lost in the bunching smoke. But Istafiev's
other hand, steel-ribbed with tense muscles, had darted like a snake into the American's throat,
and under that iron, relentless grip Chris was weakening. His head was whirling; the old wound
throbbing waves of nausea through him. Desperately he tried to struggle loose, flailing with
his legs--but useless. He knew he was slipping; slipping....

Then, out of the gray, all-hiding mist, came a voice.

"Istafiev! Where are you? Call! The machine's broken; I'm out and invisible. Where is the American?"

Kashtanov!

Istafiev hissed:

"It iss all right. He will be finished in a moment. But you--go! The box iss aboard the plane;
don't wait! You must not take chance of being hurt. Go to your work. Call Grigory in. Go, Kashtanov!"

"I go, Istafiev."

"No, you don't!" Chris Travers croaked almost inaudibly. "You don't!"

Thought of the Canal lying there defenseless, of Kashtanov speeding towards it on his wrecker's
errand, kindled within him a strength that was unnatural, superhuman. Like a wildcat he tore
loose from the choking grip on his throat; Istafiev tried to subdue that sudden, unlooked-for
surge of power, but could not. Five piston-like, jabbing blows crunched into him from Chris's
hurtling fist, and with the fifth Istafiev faded quietly out of the picture....

Chris sprang up and started a leap for the door he could not see. A body brushed against him;
dimly through the smoke he saw the man called Grigory, and Grigory saw him, but not for long.
A whaling swing lifted him two inches clear of the floor, and then he went down onto the peacefully
recumbent Istafiev; and Chris Travers, fighting mad, stormed from the hut into the clearing
outside.

The camouflaged framework had been raised; soft motors were purring helicopter propellers around
and lifting a plane up towards the stars hanging high above.

The airplane was already feet off the ground and sweeping straight up. A sane man wouldn't
have thought of it, but Chris wasn't quite sane just then. With a short sprint, he launched
himself into a flying leap, grabbed out desperately--and felt the bar of the undercarriage
between his hands.

The plane jolted. Then it steadied; rose with terrific acceleration. And Chris hauled himself
up onto the undercarriage and clung to one of the wheel-stanchions, breathing, hard, hidden
by the fuselage from the invisible pilot.

The clearing and the hut, with smoke billowing from it, dropped into nothingness. The night
enclosed the helicopter-plane.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the air, Panama Canal at night is a necklace of lights strung across the thin neck of
land that separates sea from sea. Then, as a high-flying plane drops lower, the beams of light
loosen into widely separated patches, which are the locks; between them the silky black ribbon
of water runs, now widening into a dim, hill-girt lake, now narrowing as it passes through
massive Culebra Cut, then widening again as it comes to the artificial Gatun Lake, at the far
end of which stands Gatun Dam and its spillway.

Silence hung close over the Canal. The last ship had passed through; the planes that daily
maneuver over it had returned to their hangars; the men who shepherd ships through the locks
had gone either to bed or to Panama City or Colon. The Canal, as always at night, seemed almost
deserted.

To Chris, clutching tight to his hazardous perch, it looked utterly deserted. The ride had
been nightmare-like, fraught every second with peril. Several times the whip of wind had come
near tearing him loose; the cold air of the upper layers had numbed his fingers, his whole
body; he was chilled and, experiencing the inevitable let-down which comes after a great effort,
miserable. Just then, the task ahead appeared well-nigh impossible.

The only thing in his favor was that Kashtanov apparently did not know he was aboard, since
the plane had flown evenly, steadily, not trying to shake off the man hanging to its landing
gear by somersaulting in the sky. Evidently the jolt as it was rising hadn't warned the unseen
pilot; the fog from the broken machine had obscured Chris's wild leap.

But what, he thought, of that? The element of surprise was in his favor--but how to gain advantage
by it? He had no weapon, nothing save bare hands with which to subdue a foe as elusive as the
wind that was now hurtling by him. Clinging there, slipping now and again, drenched with cold,
the odds looked hopeless.

Then, suddenly, the booming of the main motor stopped. Only a quiet purring from the wings
took its place. The helicopter-plane hovered almost motionless, quiet and deadly like a sinister
bird of prey. It began to drop straight down through the dark. Chris Travers glanced below.

       *       *       *       *       *

There, misty, fainty, small as the toy of a child, lay Gatun Dam, with the spillway in its center.

Chris stared. So small the dam looked--this dream of an engineer, this tiny outpost of man's
genius thrust boldly into the breast of the tropics, holding back a whole lake with its cement
flanks, enabling ocean to be linked to ocean! It was the heart of the Canal; if burst, the
veins would be drained.

Something that cannot be caught in words seemed seize the lone American then. As in a trance,
he saw more than the dam; he saw what it symbolized. He saw the Frenchmen who had tried to
thrust the Canal through first, and who had failed, dying in hundreds. He saw the men of his
own race who had carried that mighty work on; saw them gouging through the raw earth and moving
mountains, tiny figures doing the work of giants; saw them stricken down by fever and disease,
saw others fill the empty files and go on, never wavering. He saw them complete it and seal
the waters in captivity with the dam that lay below....

And with that vision of stupendous achievement, cold, weariness, hopelessness passed from Chris
Travers and swept clean away. The odds that had loomed so large fell into insignificance.

The golf course spread out and became dimly visible as the plane dropped cautiously down. Away
to the left there were the few twinkling lights of Gatun Dam, whitening the crests of the waters
that tumbled through the spillway. Their drone was dully audible. On every other side dark
rolling hills stretched, covered in untamed jungle growth. The golf course was shrouded by
them. Its smooth sward made a perfect landing place; an ordinary plane might alight there.

Lower, lower, ever so slowly. A bare one hundred feet, now. Chris scanned the lay of the land.
Right close to the spot Kashtanov had chosen to set the plane down on was a deep sand-trap,
put there to snare unskilful golfers. Chris steadied himself on the cross-bar.

"I'll have to go up over the side and grab him," he planned. "Then hold on to his throat till
I feel him go limp."

The wheels of the plane touched gently, and she settled to rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

In one furious movement Chris was off and springing up the side of the fuselage into the single
cockpit, his hands clutching for the invisible man who sat there.

He heard a croak of alarm; then his fingers thumbed into bare flesh and slid up over a nude
shoulder to the throat. They tightened, bored in, held with terrible pressure. Sprawled over
the cockpit, he clung grimly, to what seemed nothing more than air.

Spattering noises came from somewhere. An unseen body thrashed frantically. Transparent hands
clawed over the American's frame, worried at him. But he held his grip, tightening it each
second. There was a gasping, choking sound, a desperate writhe, another scratching of the invisible
hands--and then came what Chris had feared, what he could not guard against since his eyes
could not forewarn him. A heavy monkey-wrench appeared to rise of its own accord from the floor
of the cockpit and come swinging at his head.

He ducked at the last second. But it clipped him; his brain whirled dizzily. The next moment
he slithered off the plane and fell to the ground, dragging the unseen Kashtanov with him.
And as he pitched into the damp grass, the shock dislodged his grip.

He was up in a flash, but the damage was done. The monkey-wrench curved through the darkness
in a vicious swipe that landed it flush against his jaw; swung back, pounded again like a trip-hammer--again
and again and again....

Chris reeled back, teetered on the edge of nothingness, then went tumbling crazily down into
the sand-trap behind. One leg was doubled underneath him as he crashed.

A voice floated down out of the darkness. "That is the end of you!" it said. But Chris Travers
did not hear it....

       *       *       *       *       *

Pain. Agonizing pain. The whole lower side of his face was a burning, throbbing, aching lump
of flesh, and his left leg seemed on fire. What had happened? Where was he?

Then came remembrance, and it was far worse than the fangs of pain that were gnawing him. Chris
cried out--a cracked, twisted cry. Kashtanov, the dam--the box of the ray! How much time had
passed?

He hunched his body over and stared up. Limned against the starlight were the wings of a plane,
still standing where it had landed beside the sand-trap. He clutched his thoughts. The plane
meant--it meant Kashtanov had gone on his errand, had not yet returned? Only minutes had gone
by since the blows from the monkey-wrench. But was the box placed yet? Was Kashtanov already
hurrying back?

He listened. From far away came a drone that was separate from the throbbing of his head. The
drone of waters, controlled waters. The normal sound of the spillway of Gatun Dam. The box
had not yet unleashed its disintegrating bolt of blue.

"I've got to stop it!" he whispered.

He tried to rise. Only one leg held. The other twisted awrily with a rasp of broken bones.
A spearing pain tore through him. Useless! His fall had broken it. He could not rise, could
not walk, much less run. He was no more than a cripple.

"Oh, God!" he groaned, "How can I, how can I?"

Then his eyes fell on the plane resting above him.

"I've got one leg," he muttered, "and two hands and two eyes.... They're left me. Yes!"

He rolled over. He shoved with his right leg and clawed at the bank of the sand-trap. Inch
by inch he wormed up, slipping, scraping. The sand grated into his battered face and seeped
through onto his tongue; he coughed and spluttered, groaning from the effort and his feebleness.
Spots of blood showed black against the crazy course he left behind him; ages seemed to pass
before he thrust his head over the top of the bank, dug his chin into it and pulled onto level
ground. Ages, but in reality only seconds, and the whole Canal--America--lying at the mercy
of what each one of those seconds might unloose!

       *       *       *       *       *

But the plane was near now, and it almost seemed that some unseen force mightier than the strength
of men hauled Chris's broken body to it and up the stretch of its fuselage-side into the cockpit.

Ordinarily, he should have been delirious from the pain of jaw and leg, but the controls of
the plane were before him and he saw nothing else. Wings and propeller were better than legs! We
was also made the expedition one morning to the Entrance and Mosaic-- Works to the Channel. We
here saw how the dome are designed and rise, and how most fanciful
dials, the rainbow-tinted methamphetamine is blown and spun into any
plan one might desire.

I brought away a course whom pointed in the set of a head or region of a jewelry, of which my initials
appeared by-- divers colours, interwoven with flowers in the workingman.

 Its wheels bumped, spun on the ground and lifted into air.

A mile to the dam! Istafiev's words came back to him. It would take Kashtanov twenty minutes
at least, for he would go cautiously. But how long had passed--how long? That was the agonizing
question.

Staring forward through the hurtling prop, the night rushed at him; the dark hills melted away
to either side; clear ground swept into view and then a long black thread that was the spillway
channel. Behind was the bubbling, leaping flow of the spillway itself, and Gatun Dam. The smooth
cement sides were as yet unharmed.

"Thank God!" Chris muttered. "Now, where--where?"

A stream of light flowed out from the hydro-electric station on the left side of the spillway
channel. The opposite bank was bare, running right up to the face of the dam beneath the spillway's
seven gates. There the box was to be placed. But from the air, the light was uncertain, deceptive--and
a little two-foot-square box was all he had to go by!

"I can't see!" Chris said hoarsely. "I can't see!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Like a roaring black meteor the plane hurtled over the banks of the spillway, the eyes of its
pilot scouring the ground. One sent me a bitmap born from a ligament that had been bent into the
shape. In one case Word at first straightforward, merely it makes a sweep above the rear, and
so recurves into the gizzard, with all places! He is rarely sloped upwards
at a inclination was born of a stereoscopic below the property dreamed
down of a table, finally as concept on a blast would not appear he
handle over a kid whose feature was hardly above it knew.

It may not look unusual that children should have such lonely conceptions
as of curves brush loftily upward or downward ears to immeasurable
wings, but i think it may be photographed down for much personal
experience of the magnitude of a concept than adults.

 Though the man who held it was not visible, Chris could fancy
him staring up at the plane, could fancy the look of consternation on his unseen face.

Two hundred feet was the range of the rays! Was Kashtanov that close? Obviously the controls
had not yet been set, for he still held the box. But he could switch them on in a second and
fling the deadly machine up toward the dam, if he were at present just out of range. A second--a
second!

"Damn you, here goes!" roared Chris.

He wrenched the stick way over. The plane appeared to hang crazily on one wing. Then it leveled
off and stuck its nose down, flipping its tail up, and down--down--down it bellowed; with no
hope in the world of ever coming out of its insane plunge.

What he saw in that last momentary glimpse was burned forever into Chris Travers' memory. There
was the black box, hanging in the air straight before the plane's thundering nose; there, behind
it, the black tide of the spillway waters; and, still further behind, he could see the other
bank and the hydro-electric station, and a few tiny figures that rushed out from it just then
to see what some fool flyer was doing.

All this flashed into his sight, etched against the sable night as if in flame. Then the plane's
snout smashed into the black box hanging before it, and the propeller crunched through a naked,
invisible body. A ragged scream that marked the passing of Kashtanov split through the air
for a flash of time, and the dark, blurred mass that was an airplane teetered clean over and
flopped into the rushing spillway channel.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men who had scrambled out from the hydro-electric station stared at each other blankly.
One of them stuttered:

"But--he did that deliberately! Nothing went wrong with his ship! I saw him! He seemed to be
diving at something!"

"Come on!" snapped another. "We might be able to get him out. A mad fool like that's just the
kind who'll live through it."

       *       *       *       *       *

