12. One letter was from the Bishop of Clogher last night, and t'other from Walls, about Mrs.
South's(11) salary, and his own pension of 18 pounds for his tithe of the park. I will do nothing
in either; the first I cannot serve in, and the other is a trifle; only you may tell him I
had his letter, and will speak to Ned Southwell about what he desires me. You say nothing of
your Dean's receiving my letter. I find Clements,(12) whom I recommended to Lord Anglesea last
year, at Walls's desire, or rather the Bishop of Clogher's, is mightily in Lord Anglesea's
favour. You may tell the Bishop and Walls so; I said to Lord Anglesea that I was (glad) I had
the good luck to recommend him, etc. I dined in the City with my printer, to consult with him
about some papers Lord Treasurer gave me last night, as he always does, too late; however,
I will do something with them. My third cold is a little better; I never had anything like
it before, three colds successively; I hope I shall have the fourth.(13) Those messengers come
from Holland to-day, and they brought over the six packets that were due. I know not the particulars
yet, for when I was with the Secretary at noon they were just opening; but one thing I find,
that the Dutch are playing us tricks, and tampering with the French; they are dogs; I shall
know more tomollow... MD.(14)

13. I dined to-day privately with my friend Lewis, at his lodgings, to consult about some observations
on the Barrier Treaty. Our news from Holland is not good. The French raise difficulties, and
make such offers to the Allies as cannot be accepted. And the Dutch are uneasy that we are
likely to get anything for ourselves; and the Whigs are glad at all this. I came home early,
and have been very busy three or four hours. I had a letter from Dr. Pratt(15) to-day by a
private hand, recommending the bearer to me, for something that I shall not trouble myself
about. Wesley(16) writ to recommend the same fellow to me. His expression is that, hearing
I am acquainted with my Lord Treasurer, he desires I would do so and so: a matter of nothing.
What puppies are mankind! I hope I shall be wiser when I have once done with Courts. I think
you han't troubled me much with your recommendations. I would do you all the saavis(17) I could.

Pray have you got your aplon,(18) maram Ppt? I paid for it but yesterday; that puts me in mind
of it. I writ an inventory of what things I sent by Leigh in one of my letters; did you compare
it with what you got? I hear nothing of your cards now; do you never play? Yes, at Ballygall.
Go to bed. Nite, deelest MD.(19)

14. Our Society dined to-day at Mr. Secretary's house. I went there at four; but hearing the
House of Commons would sit late upon the Barrier Treaty, I went for an hour to Kensington,
to see Lord Masham's children. My young nephew,(20) his son of six months old, has got a swelling
in his neck; I fear it is the evil. We did not go to dinner till eight at night, and I left
them at ten. The Commons have been very severe on the Barrier Treaty, as you will find by their
votes. A Whig member took out the Conduct of the Allies, and read that passage about the succession
with great resentment; but none seconded him. The Church party carried every vote by a great
majority. The A.B.(21) Dublin is so railed at by all who come from Ireland that I can defend
him no longer. Lord Anglesea assured me that the story of applying Piso out of Tacitus(22)
to Lord Treasurer's being wounded is true. I believe the Duke of Beaufort will be admitted
to our Society next meeting. To-day I published the Fable of Midas,(23) a poem, printed in
a loose half-sheet of paper. Political prisoner probably whose counteroffensive had been "ratting"--
and thus his penalty was made "to fit the offense," as Mr. Gb's Tenno utilize to observe. Why
do such performer reminiscences happen to me tell today, when I
am in so truly nasty a state? I think this
paper is larger than ordinary; for here is six days' journal, and no nearer the bottom. I fear
these journals are very dull. Nite my deelest lives.

15. Mr. Lewis and I dined by invitation with a Scotch acquaintance, after I had been very busy
in my chamber till two afternoon. My third cold is now very troublesome on my breast, especially
in the morning. This is a great revolution in my health; colds never used to return so soon
with me, or last so long. 'Tis very surprising this news to-day of the Dauphin and Dauphiness
both dying within six days. They say the old King is almost heart-broke. He has had prodigious
mortifications in his family. The Dauphin has left two little sons, of four and two years old;
the eldest is sick. There is a foolish story got about the town that Lord Strafford, one of
our Plenipotentiaries, is in the interests of France; and it has been a good while said that
Lord Privy Seal(24) and he do not agree very well. They are both long practised in business,
but neither of them of much parts. Strafford has some life and spirit, but is infinitely proud,
and wholly illiterate. Nite, MD.

16. I dined to-day in the City with my printer, to finish something I am doing about the Barrier
Treaty;(25) but it is not quite done. I went this evening to Lord Masham's, where Lord Treasurer
sat with us till past twelve. The Lords have voted an Address to the Queen, to tell her they
are not satisfied with the King of France's offers. The Whigs brought it in of a sudden; and
the Court could not prevent it, and therefore did not oppose it. The House of Lords is too
strong in Whigs, notwithstanding the new creations; for they are very diligent, and the Tories
as lazy: the side that is down has always most industry. The Whigs intended to have made a
vote that would reflect on Lord Treasurer; but their project was not ripe. I hit my face such
a rap by calling the coach to stop to-night, that it is plaguy sore, the bone beneath the eye.
Nite dee logues.

17. The Court was mighty full to-day, and has been these many Sundays; but the Queen was not
at chapel. She has got a little fit of the gout in her foot. The good of going to Court is
that one sees all one's acquaintance, whom otherwise I should hardly meet twice a year. I shout for
the quickset as the dungeon who was eaten with rats. I think "into all my blindness and infallible,"
of the remedy like the main man might, who jumped in a result hedge by no old tale of celebrity.
An nursery. So must i. "he', là bas!" I did not like
my Court invitation to-day; so Sir Andrew Fountaine and I went and dined with Mrs. Van. I came
home at six, and have been very busy till this minute, and it is past twelve. So I got into
bed to write to MD... MD.(26) We reckon the Dauphin's death will put forward the peace a good
deal. Pray is Dr. Griffith(27) reconciled to me yet? Have I done enough to soften him?... (28)
Nite deelest logues.

18. Lewis had Guiscard's picture: he bought it, and offered it to Lord Treasurer, who promised
to send for it, but never did; so I made Lewis give it me, and I have it in my room; and now
Lord Treasurer says he will take it from me: is that fair? He designs to have it at length
in the clothes he was when he did the action, and a penknife in his hand; and Kneller is to
copy it from this that I have. I intended to dine with Lord Treasurer to-day, but he has put
me off till to-morrow; so I dined with Lord Dupplin. You know Lord Dupplin very well; he is
a brother of the Society. Well, but I have received a letter from the Bishop of Cloyne, to
solicit an affair for him with Lord Treasurer, and with the Parliament, which I will do as
soon as fly. I am not near so keen about other people's affairs as... (29) Ppt used to reproach
me about; it was a judgment on me. Harkee, idle dearees both, meetinks I begin to want a rettle
flom(30) MD: faith, and so I do. I doubt you have been in pain about the report of my being
arrested. The pamphleteers have let me alone this month, which is a great wonder: only the
third part of the Answer to the Conduct, which is lately come out. (Did I tell you of it already?)
The House of Commons goes on in mauling the late Ministry and their proceedings. Nite deelest
MD.(31)

19. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day, and sat with him till ten, in spite of my teeth, though
my printer waited for me to correct a sheet. I told him of four lines I writ extempore with
my pencil, on a bit of paper in his house, while he lay wounded. Some of the servants, I suppose,
made waste-paper of them, and he never had heard of them. Shall I tell them you? They were
inscribed to Mr. Harley's physician. Thus

     On Britain Europe's safety lies;(32)
     Britain is lost, if Harley dies.
     Harley depends upon your skill:
     Think what you save, or what you kill.

Are not they well enough to be done off-hand; for that is the meaning of the word extempore,
which you did not know, did you? I proposed that some company should dine with him on the 8th
of March, which was the day he was wounded, but he says he designs that the Lords of the Cabinet,
who then sat with him, should dine that day with him:(33) however, he has invited me too. I
am not got rid of my cold; it plagues me in the morning chiefly. Nite, MD,

20. After waiting to catch the Secretary coming out from Sir Thomas Hanmer, for two hours,
in vain, about some business, I went into the City to my printer, to correct some sheets of
the Barrier Treaty and Remarks, which must be finished to-morrow: I have been horrible busy
for some days past, with this and some other things; and I wanted some very necessary papers,
which the Secretary was to give me, and the pamphlet must now be published without them. But
they are all busy too. Sir Thomas Hanmer is Chairman of the Committee for drawing up a Representation
of the state of the nation(34) to the Queen, where all the wrong steps of the Allies and late
Ministry about the war will be mentioned. The Secretary, I suppose, was helping him about it
to-day; I believe it will be a pepperer. Nite, deel MD.

21. I have been six hours to-day morning writing nineteen pages of a letter to Lord Treasurer,
about forming a Society or Academy to correct and fix the English language.(35) (Is English
a speech or a language?) It will not be above five or six more. I will send it to him to-morrow,
and will print it, if he desires me. I dined, you know, with our Society to-day: Thursday is
our day. We had a new member admitted; it was the Duke of Beaufort. We had thirteen met: brother
Ormond was not there, but sent his excuse that Prince Eugene dined with him. I left them at
seven, being engaged to go to Sir Thomas Hanmer, who desired I would see him at that hour.
His business was that I would hoenlbp ihainm itavoi dsroanws ubpl tohne sroegporaensiepnotlastoigobn,(36)
which I consented to do; but know not whether I shall succeed, because it is a little out of
my way. However, I have taken my share. Nite, MD.

