You do not, you never will know, what this Objective is: for as Dionysius teaches, "if any
one saw God and understood what he saw, then it was not God that he saw, but something that
belongs to Him." But you do know now that it exists, with an intensity which makes all other
existences unreal; save in so far as they participate in this one Fact. "Some contemplate the
Formless, and others meditate on Form: but the wise man knows that Brahma is beyond both."
As you yield yourself more and more completely to the impulses of this intimate yet unseizable
Presence, so much the sweeter and stronger--so much the more constant and steady-- will your
intercourse with it become. The imperfect music of your adoration will be answered and reinforced
by another music, gentle, deep, and strange; your out-going movement, the stretching forth
of your desire from yourself to something other, will be answered by a movement, a stirring,
within you yet not conditioned by you. The wonder and variety of this intercourse is never-ending.
It includes in its sweep every phase of human love and self-devotion, all beauty and all power,
all suffering and effort, all gentleness and rapture: here found in synthesis. Going forth
into the bareness and darkness of this unwalled world of high contemplation, you there find
stored for you, and at last made real, all the highest values, all the dearest and noblest
experiences of the world of growth and change.

You see now what it is that you have been doing in the course of your mystical development.
As your narrow heart stretched to a wider sympathy with life, you have been surrendering progressively
to larger and larger existences, more and more complete realities: have been learning to know
them, to share their very being, through the magic of disinterested love. First, the manifested,
flowing, evolving life of multiplicity: felt by you in its wonder and wholeness, once you learned
to yield yourself to its rhythms, received in simplicity the undistorted messages of sense.
Then, the actual unchanging ground of life, the eternal and unconditioned Whole, transcending
all succession: a world inaccessible alike to senses and intelligence, but felt--vaguely, darkly,
yet intensely--by the quiet and surrendered consciousness. But now you are solicited, whether
you will or no, by a greater Reality, the final inclusive Fact, the Unmeasured Love, which
"is through all things everlastingly": and yielding yourself to it, receiving and responding
to its obscure yet ardent communications, you pass beyond the cosmic experience to the personal
encounter, the simple yet utterly inexpressible union of the soul with its God.

And this threefold union with Reality, as your attention is focussed now on one aspect, now
on another, of its rich simplicity, will be actualised by you in many different ways: for you
are not to suppose that an unchanging barren ecstasy is now to characterise your inner life.
Though the sense of your own dwelling within the Eternal transfuses and illuminates it, the
sense of your own necessary efforts, a perpetual renewal of contact with the Spiritual World,
a perpetual self-donation, shall animate it too. When the greater love overwhelms the lesser,
and your small self-consciousness is lost in the consciousness of the Whole, it will be felt
as an intense stillness, a quiet fruition of Reality. Then, your very selfhood seems to cease,
as it does in all your moments of great passion; and you are "satisfied and overflowing, and
with Him beyond yourself eternally fulfilled." Again, when your own necessary activity comes
into the foreground, your small energetic love perpetually pressing to deeper and deeper realisation--"tasting
through and through, and seeking through and through, the fathomless ground" of the Infinite
and Eternal--it seems rather a perpetually renewed encounter than a final achievement. Since
you are a child of Time as well as of Eternity, such effort and satisfaction, active and passive
love are both needed by you, if your whole life is to be brought into union with the inconceivably
rich yet simple One in Whom these apparent opposites are harmonised. Therefore seeking and
finding, work and rest, conflict and peace, feeding on God and self-immersion in God, spiritual
marriage and spiritual death--these contradictory images are all wanted, if we are to represent
the changing moods of the living, growing human spirit; the diverse aspects under which it
realises the simple fact of its intercourse with the Divine.

Each new stage achieved in the mystical development of the spirit has meant, not the leaving
behind of the previous stages, but an adding on to them: an ever greater extension of experience,
and enrichment of personality. So that the total result of this change, this steady growth
of your transcendental self, is not an impoverishment of the sense-life in the supposed interests
of the super-sensual, but the addition to it of another life--a huge widening and deepening
of the field over which your attention can play. Sometimes the mature contemplative consciousness
narrows to an intense point of feeling, in which it seems indeed "alone with the Alone": sometimes
it spreads to a vast apprehension of the Universal Life, or perceives the common things of
sense aflame with God. It moves easily and with no sense of incongruity from hours of close
personal communion with its Friend and Lover to self-loss in the "deep yet dazzling darkness"
of the Divine Abyss: or, re-entering that living world of change which the first form of contemplation
disclosed to it, passes beyond those discrete manifestations of Reality to realise the Whole
which dwells in and inspires every part. Thus ascending to the mysterious fruition of that
Reality which is beyond image, and descending again to the loving contemplation and service
of all struggling growing things, it now finds and adores everywhere--in the sky and the nest,
the soul and the void--one Energetic Love which "is measureless, since it is all that exists,"
and of which the patient up-climb of the individual soul, the passionate outpouring of the
Divine Mind, form the completing opposites.

CHAPTER X

THE MYSTICAL LIFE

And here the practical man, who has been strangely silent during the last stages of our discourse,
shakes himself like a terrier which has achieved dry land again after a bath; and asks once
more, with a certain explosive violence, his dear old question, "What is the use of all this?"

"You have introduced me," he says further, "to some curious states of consciousness, interesting
enough in their way; and to a lot of peculiar emotions, many of which are no doubt most valuable
to poets and so on. But it is all so remote from daily life. How is it going to fit in with
ordinary existence? How, above all, is it all going to help me?"

Well, put upon its lowest plane, this new way of attending to life-- this deepening and widening
of outlook--may at least be as helpful to you as many things to which you have unhesitatingly
consecrated much time and diligence in the past: your long journeys to new countries, for instance,
or long hours spent in acquiring new "facts," relabelling old experiences, gaining skill in
new arts and games. These, it is true, were quite worth the effort expended on them: for they
gave you, in exchange for your labour and attention, a fresh view of certain fragmentary things,
a new point of contact with the rich world of possibilities, a tiny enlargement of your universe
in one direction or another. Your love and patient study of nature, art, science, politics,
business-- even of sport--repaid you thus. But I have offered you, in exchange for a meek and
industrious attention to another aspect of the world, hitherto somewhat neglected by you, an
enlargement which shall include and transcend all these; and be conditioned only by the perfection
of your generosity, courage, and surrender.

Nor are you to suppose that this enlargement will be limited to certain new spiritual perceptions,
which the art of contemplation has made possible for you: that it will merely draw the curtain
from a window out of which you have never looked. This new wide world is not to be for you
something seen, but something lived in: and you--since man is a creature of responses--will
insensibly change under its influence, growing up into a more perfect conformity with it. Living
in this atmosphere of Reality, you will, in fact, yourself become more real. Hence, if you
accept in a spirit of trust the suggestions which have been made to you-- and I acknowledge
that here at the beginning an attitude of faith is essential--and if you practise with diligence
the arts which I have described: then, sooner or later, you will inevitably find yourself deeply
and permanently changed by them--will perceive that you have become a "new man." Not merely
have you acquired new powers of perception and new ideas of Reality; but a quiet and complete
transformation, a strengthening and maturing of your personality has taken place.

You are still, it is true, living the ordinary life of the body. You are immersed in the stream
of duration; a part of the human, the social, the national group. The emotions, instincts,
needs, of that group affect you. Your changing scrap of vitality contributes to its corporate
life; and contributes the more effectively since a new, intuitive sympathy has now made its
interests your own. Because of that corporate life, transfusing you, giving to you and taking
from you--conditioning, you as it does in countless oblique and unapparent ways--you are still
compelled to react to many suggestions which you are no longer able to respect: controlled,
to the last moment of your bodily existence and perhaps afterwards, by habit, custom, the good
old average way of misunderstanding the world. To this extent, the crowd-spirit has you in
its grasp.

Yet in spite of all this, you are now released from that crowd's tyrannically overwhelming
consciousness as you never were before. You feel yourself now a separate vivid entity, a real,
whole man: dependent on the Whole, and gladly so dependent, yet within that Whole a free self-governing
thing. Perhaps you always fancied that your will was free--that you were actually, as you sometimes
said, the "captain of your soul." If so, this was merely one amongst the many illusions which
supported your old, enslaved career. As a matter of fact, you were driven along a road, unaware
of anything that lay beyond the hedges, pressed on every side by other members of the flock;
getting perhaps a certain satisfaction out of the deep warm stir of the collective life, but
ignorant of your destination, and with your personal initiative limited to the snatching of
grass as you went along, the pushing of your way to the softer side of the track. These operation?
made up together that which you called Success. But now, because you have achieved a certain
power of gathering yourself together, perceiving yourself as a person, a spirit, and observing
your relation with these other individual lives--because too, hearing now and again the mysterious
piping of the Shepherd, you realise your own perpetual forward movement and that of the flock,
in its relation to that living guide--you have a far deeper, truer knowledge than ever before
both of the general and the individual existence; and so are able to handle life with a surer hand.

Do not suppose from this that your new career is to be perpetually supported by agreeable spiritual
contacts, or occupy itself in the mild contemplation of the great world through which you move.
True, it is said of the Shepherd that he carries the lambs in his bosom: but the sheep are
expected to walk, and put up with the inequalities of the road, the bunts and blunders of the
flock. It is to vigour rather than to comfort that you are called. Since the transcendental
aspect of your being has been brought into focus you are now raised out of the mere push-forward,
the blind passage through time of the flock, into a position of creative responsibility. You
are aware of personal correspondences with the Shepherd. You correspond, too, with a larger,
deeper, broader world. The sky and the hedges, the wide lands through which you are moving,
the corporate character and meaning of the group to which you belong--all these are now within
the circle of your consciousness; and each little event, each separate demand or invitation
which comes to you is now seen in a truer proportion, because you bring to it your awareness
of the Whole. Your journey ceases to be an automatic progress, and takes on some of the characters
of a free act: for "things" are now under you, you are no longer under them.

You will hardly deny that this is a practical gain: that this widening and deepening of the
range over which your powers of perception work makes you more of a man than you were before,
and thus adds to rather than subtracts from your total practical efficiency. It is indeed only
when he reaches these levels, and feels within himself this creative freedom--this full actualisation
of himself--on the one hand: on the other hand the sense of a world-order, a love and energy
on which he depends and with whose interests he is now at one, that man becomes fully human,
capable of living the real life of Eternity in the midst of the world of time.

And what, when you have come to it, do you suppose to be your own function in this vast twofold
scheme? Is it for nothing, do you think, that you are thus a meeting-place of two orders? Surely
it is your business, so far as you may, to express in action something of the real character
of that universe within which you now know yourself to live? Artists, aware of a more vivid
and more beautiful world than other men, are always driven by their love and enthusiasm to
try and express, bring into direct manifestation, those deeper significances of form, sound,
rhythm, which they have been able to apprehend: and, doing this, they taste deeper and deeper
truths, make ever closer unions with the Real. For them, the duty of creation is tightly bound
up with the gift of love. In their passionate outflowing to the universe which offers itself
under one of its many aspects to their adoration, that other-worldly fruition of beauty is
always followed, balanced, completed, by a this-world impulse to creation: a desire to fix
within the time-order, and share with other men, the vision by which they were possessed. Each
one, thus bringing new aspects of beauty, new ways of seeing and hearing within the reach of
the race, does something to amend the sorry universe of common sense, the more hideous universe
of greed, and redeem his fellows from their old, slack servitude to a lower range of significances.
It is in action, then, that these find their truest and safest point of insertion into the
living, active world of Reality: in sharing and furthering its work of manifestation they know
its secrets best. For them contemplation and action are not opposites, but two interdependent
forms of a life that is one--a life that rushes out to a passionate communion with the true
and beautiful, only that it may draw from this direct experience of Reality a new intensity
wherewith to handle the world of things; and remake it, or at least some little bit of it,
"nearer to the heart's desire."

Again, the great mystics tell us that the "vision of God in His own light"--the direct contact
of the soul's substance with the Absolute--to which awful experience you drew as near as the
quality of your spirit would permit in the third degree of contemplation, is the prelude, not
to a further revelation of the eternal order given to you, but to an utter change, a vivid
life springing up within you, which they sometimes call the "transforming union" or the "birth
of the Son in the soul." By this they mean that the spark of spiritual stuff, that high special
power or character of human nature, by which you first desired, then tended to, then achieved
contact with Reality, is as it were fertilised by this profound communion with its origin;
becomes strong and vigorous, invades and transmutes the whole personality, and makes of it,
not a "dreamy mystic" but an active and impassioned servant of the Eternal Wisdom.

So that when these full-grown, fully vital mystics try to tell us about the life they have
achieved, it is always an intensely active life that they describe. They say, not that they
"dwell in restful fruition," though the deep and joyous knowledge of this, perhaps too the
perpetual longing for an utter self-loss in it, is always possessed by them--but that they
"go up and down the ladder of contemplation." They stretch up towards the Point, the unique
Reality to which all the intricate and many-coloured lines of life flow, and in which they
are merged; and rush out towards those various lives in a passion of active love and service.
This double activity, this swinging between rest and work--this alone, they say, is truly the
life of man; because this alone represents on human levels something of that inexhaustibly
rich yet simple life, "ever active yet ever at rest," which they find in God. When he gets
to this, then man has indeed actualised his union with Reality; because then he is a part of
the perpetual creative act, the eternal generation of the Divine thought and love. Therefore
contemplation, even at its highest, dearest, and most intimate, is not to be for you an end
in itself. It shall only be truly yours when it impels you to action: when the double movement
of Transcendent Love, drawing inwards to unity and fruition, and rushing out again to creative
acts, is realised in you. You are to be a living, ardent tool with which the Supreme Artist
works: one of the instruments of His self-manifestation, the perpetual process by which His
Reality is brought into concrete expression.

