Then spoke out the foreman of the jury. Was it proposed that they should be locked up till
somebody should come from Prague, and that then the trial should be recommenced? The system,
said the foreman, under which Middlesex juries were chosen for service in the City was known
to be most horribly cruel;--but cruelty to jurymen such as this had never even been heard of.
Then a most irregular word was spoken. One of the jurymen declared that he was quite willing
to believe the telegram. "Every one believes it," said Mr. Chaffanbrass. Then the Chief Justice
scolded the juryman, and Sir Gregory Grogram scolded Mr. Chaffanbrass. It seemed as though
all the rules of the Court were to be set at defiance. "Will my learned friend say that he
doesn't believe it?" asked Mr. Chaffanbrass. "I neither believe nor disbelieve it; but it cannot
affect the evidence," said Sir Gregory. "Then send the case to the jury," said Mr. Chaffanbrass.
It seemed that everybody was talking, and Mr. Wickerby, the attorney, tried to explain it all
to the prisoner over the bar of the dock, not in the lowest possible voice. The Chief Justice
became angry, and the guardian of the silence of the Court bestirred himself energetically.
"My lud," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, "I maintain that it is proper that the prisoner should be
informed of the purport of these telegrams. Mercy demands it, and justice as well." Phineas
Finn, however, did not understand, as he had known nothing about the latch-key of the house
in Northumberland Street.

Something, however, must be done. The Chief Justice was of opinion that, although the preparation
of a latch-key in Prague could not really affect the evidence against the prisoner,--although
the facts against the prisoner would not be altered, let the manufacture of that special key
be ever so clearly proved,--nevertheless the jury were entitled to have before them the facts
now tendered in evidence before they could be called upon to give a verdict, and that therefore
they should submit themselves, in the service of their country, to the very serious additional
inconvenience which they would be called upon to endure. Sundry of the jury altogether disagreed
with this, and became loud in their anger. They had already been locked up for a week. "And
we are quite prepared to give a verdict," said one. The judge again scolded him very severely;
and as the Attorney-General did at last assent, and as the unfortunate jurymen had no power
in the matter, so it was at last arranged. The trial should be postponed till time should be
given for Madame Goesler and the blacksmith to reach London from Prague.

If the matter was interesting to the public before, it became doubly interesting now. It was
of course known to everybody that Madame Goesler had undertaken a journey to Bohemia,--and,
as many supposed, a roving tour through all the wilder parts of unknown Europe, Poland, Hungary,
and the Principalities for instance,--with the object of looking for evidence to save the life
of Phineas Finn; and grandly romantic tales were told of her wit, her wealth, and her beauty.
The story was published of the Duke of Omnium's will, only not exactly the true story. The
late Duke had left her everything at his disposal, and, it was hinted that they had been privately
married just before the Duke's death. Of course Madame Goesler became very popular, and the
blacksmith from Prague who had made the key was expected with an enthusiasm which almost led
to preparation for a public reception.

And yet, let the blacksmith from Prague be ever so minute in his evidence as to the key, let
it be made as clear as running water that Mealyus had caused to be constructed for him in Prague
a key that would open the door of the house in Northumberland Street, the facts as proved at
the trial would not be at all changed. The lawyers were much at variance with their opinions
on the matter, some thinking that the judge had been altogether wrong in delaying his charge.
According to them he should not have allowed Mr. Chaffanbrass to have read the telegram in
Court. The charge should have been given, and the sentence of the Court should have been pronounced
if a verdict of guilty were given. The Home Secretary should then have granted a respite till
the coming of the blacksmith, and have extended this respite to a pardon, if advised that the
circumstances of the latch-key rendered doubtful the propriety of the verdict. Others, however,
maintained that in this way a grievous penalty would be inflicted on a man who, by general
consent, was now held to be innocent. Not only would he, by such an arrangement of circumstances,
have been left for some prolonged period under the agony of a condemnation, but, by the necessity
of the case, he would lose his seat for Tankerville. It would be imperative upon the House
to declare vacant by its own action a Seat held by a man condemned to death for murder, and
no pardon from the Queen or from the Home Secretary would absolve the House from that duty.
The House, as a House of Parliament, could only recognise the verdict of the jury as to the
man's guilt. The Queen, of course, might pardon whom she pleased, but no pardon from the Queen
would remove the guilt implied by the sentence. Many went much further than this, and were
prepared to prove that were he once condemned he could not afterwards sit in the House, even
if re-elected.

Now there was unquestionably an intense desire,--since the arrival of these telegrams,--that
Phineas Finn should retain his seat. It may be a question whether he would not have been the
most popular man in the House could he have sat there on the day after the telegrams arrived.
The Attorney-General had declared,--and many others had declared with him,--that this information
about the latch-key did not in the least affect the evidence as given against Mr. Finn. Could
it have been possible to convict the other man, merely because he had surreptitiously caused
a door-key of the house in which he lived to be made for him? And how would this new information
have been received had Lord Fawn sworn unreservedly that the man he had seen running out of
the mews had been Phineas Finn? It was acknowledged that the latchkey could not be accepted
as sufficient evidence against Mealyus. But nevertheless the information conveyed by the telegrams
altogether changed the opinion of the public as to the guilt or innocence of Phineas Finn.
His life now might have been insured, as against the gallows, at a very low rate. It was felt
that no jury could convict him, and he was much more pitied in being subjected to a prolonged
incarceration than even those twelve unfortunate men who had felt sure that the Wednesday would
have been the last day of their unmerited martyrdom.

Phineas in his prison was materially circumstanced precisely as he had been before the trial.
He was supplied with a profusion of luxuries, could they have comforted him; and was allowed
to receive visitors. But he would see no one but his sisters,--except that he had one interview
with Mr. Low. Even Mr. Low found it difficult to make him comprehend the exact condition of
the affair, and could not induce him to be comforted when he did understand it. What had he
to do,--how could his innocence or his guilt be concerned,--with the manufacture of a paltry
key by such a one as Mealyus? How would it have been with him and with his name for ever if
this fact had not been discovered? "I was to be hung or saved from hanging according to the
chances of such a thing as this! I do not care for my life in a country where such injustice
can be done." His friend endeavoured to assure him that even had nothing been heard of the
key the jury would have acquitted him. But Phineas would not believe him. It had seemed to
him as he had listened to the whole proceeding that the Court had been against him. The Attorney
and Solicitor-General had appeared to him resolved upon hanging him,--men who had been, at
any rate, his intimate acquaintances, with whom he had sat on the same bench, who ought to
have known him. And the judge had taken the part of Lord Fawn, who had seemed to Phineas to
be bent on swearing away his life. He had borne himself very gallantly during that week, having
in all his intercourse with his attorney, spoken without a quaver in his voice, and without
a flaw in the perspicuity of his intelligence. But now, when Mr. Low came to him, explaining
to him that it was impossible that a verdict should be found against him, he was quite broken
down. "There is nothing left of me," he said at the end of the interview. "I feel that I had
better take to my bed and die. Even when I think of all that friends have done for me, it fails
to cheer me. In this matter I should not have had to depend on friends. Had not she gone for
me to that place every one would have believed me to be a murderer."

And yet in his solitude he thought very much of the marvellous love shown to him by his friends.
Words had been spoken which had been very sweet to him in all his misery,--words such as neither
men nor women can say to each other in the ordinary intercourse of life, much as they may wish
that their purport should be understood. Lord Chiltern, Lord Cantrip, and Mr. Monk had alluded
to him as a man specially singled out by them for their friendship. Lady Cantrip, than whom
no woman in London was more discreet, had been equally enthusiastic. Then how gracious, how
tender, how inexpressibly sweet had been the words of her who had been Violet Effingham! And
now the news had reached him of Madame Goesler's journey to the continent. "It was a wonderful
thing for her to do," Mr. Low had said. Yes, indeed! Remembering all that had passed between
them he acknowledged to himself that it was very wonderful. Were it not that his back was now
broken, that he was prostrate and must remain so, a man utterly crushed by what he had endured,
it might have been possible that she should do more for him even than she yet had done.

CHAPTER LXV

"I hate her!"

Lady Laura Kennedy had been allowed to take no active part in the manifestations of friendship
which at this time were made on behalf of Phineas Finn. She had, indeed, gone to him in his
prison, and made daily efforts to administer to his comfort; but she could not go up into the
Court and speak for him. And now this other woman, whom she hated, would have the glory of
his deliverance! She already began to see a fate before her, which would make even her past
misery as nothing to that which was to come. She was a widow,--not yet two months a widow;
and though she did not and could not mourn the death of a husband as do other widows,--though
she could not sorrow in her heart for a man whom she had never loved, and from whom she had
been separated during half her married life,--yet the fact of her widowhood and the circumstances
of her weeds were heavy on her. That she loved this man, Phineas Finn, with a passionate devotion
of which the other woman could know nothing she was quite sure. Love him! Had she not been
true to him and to his interests from the very first day in which he had come among them in
London, with almost more than a woman's truth? She knew and recalled to her memory over and
over again her own one great sin,--the fault of her life. When she was, as regarded her own
means, a poor woman, she had refused to be this poor man's wife, and had given her hand to
a rich suitor. But she had done this with a conviction that she could so best serve the interests
of the man in regard to whom she had promised herself that her feeling should henceforth be
one of simple and purest friendship. She had made a great effort to carry out that intention,
but the effort had been futile. She had striven to do her duty to a husband whom she disliked,--but
even in that she had failed. At one time she had been persistent in her intercourse with Phineas
Finn, and at another had resolved that she would not see him. She had been madly angry with
him when he came to her with the story of his love for another woman, and had madly shown her
anger; but yet she had striven to get for him the wife he wanted, though in doing so she would
have abandoned one of the dearest purposes of her life. She had moved heaven and earth for
him,--her heaven and earth,--when there was danger that he would lose his seat in Parliament.
She had encountered the jealousy of her husband with scorn,--and had then deserted him because
he was jealous. And all this she did with a consciousness of her own virtue which was almost
as sublime as it was ill-founded. She had been wrong. She confessed so much to herself with
bitter tears. She had marred the happiness of three persons by the mistake she had made in
early life. But it had not yet occurred to her that she had sinned. To her thinking the jealousy
of her husband had been preposterous and abominable, because she had known,--and had therefore
felt that he should have known,--that she would never disgrace him by that which the world
calls falsehood in a wife. She had married him without loving him, but it seemed to her that
he was in fault for that. They had become wretched, but she had never pitied his wretchedness.
She had left him, and thought herself to be ill-used because he had ventured to reclaim his
wife. Through it all she had been true in her regard to the one man she had ever loved, and,--though
she admitted her own folly and knew her own shipwreck,--yet she had always drawn some woman's
consolation from the conviction of her own constancy. He had vanished from her sight for a
while with a young wife,--never from her mind,--and then he had returned a widower. Through
silence, absence, and distance she had been true to him. On his return to his old ways she
had at once welcomed him and strove to aid him. Everything that was hers should be his,--if
only he would open his hands to take it. And she would tell it him all,--let him know every
corner of her heart. She was a married woman, and could not be his wife. She was a woman of
virtue, and would not be his mistress. But she would be to him a friend so tender that no wife,
no mistress should ever have been fonder! She did tell him everything as they stood together
on the ramparts of the old Saxon castle. Then he had kissed her, and pressed her to his heart,--not
because he loved her, but because he was generous. She had partly understood it all,--but yet
had not understood it thoroughly. He did not assure her of his love,--but then she was a wife,
and would have admitted no love that was sinful. When she returned to Dresden that night she
stood gazing at herself in the glass and saw that there was nothing there to attract the love
of such a man as Phineas Finn,--of one who was himself glorious with manly beauty; but yet
for her sadness there was some cure, some possibility of consolation in the fact that she was
a wife. Why speak of love at all when marriage was so far out of the question? But now she
was a widow and as free as he was,--a widow endowed with ample wealth; and she was the woman
to whom he had sworn his love when they had stood together, both young, by the falls of the
Linter! How often might they stand there again if only his constancy would equal hers?

