"Let us take my aunt into our confidence; I see them over there talking Turkish together. My
aunt will perhaps be able to exercise sufficient influence over your friend to convince her
that she may conform to our usages without committing any offence."

"Yes, that's the way to manage it!" exclaimed Miss Suzannah, in delight. "Our conspiracy is
making progress; but how shall we get at your aunt?"

"Does Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul understand English?" I asked her.

"No, not a word."

"Then it's a very simple matter," I added. "After this polka I'll take you back to your seat;
you then communicate our scheme to my aunt in English, and ask for her assistance; I come up,
as if by chance, and try my luck with her for the next waltz."

We did as we said. I watched from the distance this important conference, all the details of
which I guessed. While Miss Suzannah was addressing my aunt in English, I saw her laugh in
a sly manner, casting a glance at me. She at once understood our request; then turned her attention
again to Kondjé-Gul, and continued, quite undisturbed, the subject which she had last commenced
talking about with her. I had so perfectly anticipated all the phases of this scene, that I
seemed to hear what she said. By Kondjé-Gul's face I could tell the moment my aunt approached
her on our subject, and the negative gesture with which she replied was so decisive--I was
nearly saying so full of horror--that, fearing lest she should cut off her retreat completely,
I deemed it advisable to intervene as quickly as possible.

I advanced, therefore, without any more ado, joined their group, and addressing myself to the
handsome young foreigner, I said to her:

"I should not like you to think me indifferent to the pleasure of dancing with you, mademoiselle;
I meant to have asked you for the first waltz; but, alas! Miss Suzannah tells me that you do
not dance!"

"You have come to the rescue, André," chimed in my aunt. "I was just endeavouring to convert
the young lady to our customs by telling her that she would be taken for a little savage."

At this expression, which she had so often heard me utter, Kondjé-Gul smiled and cast a furtive
glance at me. Miss Suzannah supported my aunt, and the victory was already won. They were beginning
to play a waltz, so Maud took her hand and forced it into mine; I clasped her by the waist
and led her off. During the first few turns Kondjé-Gul trembled with excitement; I felt her
heart beating violently against my bosom, and I confess I was nearly losing my own self-possession.
Once we found ourselves some way removed from the rest, and, with her head resting on my shoulder,
she whispered in my ear:

"Do you still love me, dear? Are you satisfied with me?"

"Yes, but take care!" I answered hurriedly: "you are too beautiful, and all their eyes are
fixed upon us."

"If they only knew!"----she added, with a laugh.

I stopped a moment, to let her take breath. Each time any couple came near us, we appeared
to be engaged in one of those ball-room conversations the only characteristic of which is their
frivolity, and as soon as they were out of hearing, we talked together in a low voice.

"You naughty fellow," she said, "I have not seen you in the Bois for three days!"

"It was from motives of prudence," I replied. "And now prepare yourself for a surprise. Your
new house is ready and you can go there the day after to-morrow."

"Do you really mean it?" exclaimed she, "Oh! what happiness! Then you find me sufficiently
Europeanized?"

"You coquette! you are adorable!----What a nice fan you have, mademoiselle!" added I, changing
my manner as Maud came close to us.

"Do you think so," she answered, "Is it Chinese or Japanese?"

Maud having passed we resumed our conversation, overjoyed at the idea of constantly seeing
each other again. The waltz was just ending and I was obliged to conduct Kondjé-Gul back to
my aunt.

"Listen!" she remarked, "whenever I put my fan up to my lips, that will mean 'I love you'----You
must come back soon to invite me for another dance, won't you?"

"My dear girl, I can't."

"Why?"

"Because it is not usual, and would be remarked," I replied.

"But I don't want to dance with anyone else!" she said, almost with a terrified look.

I had not for once thought of this very natural consequence of our little adventure, and I
must confess that the idea of anyone else asking her after me took me quite by surprise--like
some improbability which no mortal could conceive.

"What shall I do?" she said.

It was necessary at all costs to repair the effects of our imprudence. I invented for her a
sudden indisposition, a dizziness which obliged her to leave off waltzing, and I conducted
her back to my aunt. This pretext would be sufficient to justify her in declining to dance
for the rest of the evening.

I know very well, my dear fellow, that you will cry out against me when I tell you of this
strange feeling which pierced me suddenly like a thorn in the heart, at the notion of seeing
Kondjé-Gul dance with another man. But how could I help it?

I simply relate to you a psychological fact and nothing more.

You may tell me, if you like, that this is a ridiculous exaggeration, and that I am giving
myself the morose airs of a jealous sultan. The truth is that in my harem life, I have contracted
prudish alarms and real susceptibilities which are excited by things which would not have affected
me formerly. Contact with the outside world will, no doubt, restore me to the calm frame of
mind enjoyed by every good husband. Perhaps some day I may even be able to feel pride as I
watch my wife with naked arms and shoulders whirling round the room in the amorous embrace
of a hussar. At present my temper is less complaisant: my love is a master's love, and the
notion that any man could venture to press my Kondjé-Gul's little finger would be enough to
throw me into a fit of rage. That's what we Orientals are like, you know!

However that be, I led Kondjé-Gul back to my aunt's side, and she did not dance any more.

From a corner of the drawing-room I saw some half-a-dozen of my friends march up to get introduced
to her, anxiously longing to obtain the same favour as I had, and I laughed at their discomfiture.

Meanwhile the commodore, who, by the way, is a highly educated and thoroughly good-natured
man, had marked me out, and was so kind in his attentions to me, that I felt constrained, in
spite of my scruples, to accept his advances. His relations with my uncle, moreover, might
have made the cold reserve which I had so far maintained appear singular. Finally, towards
the middle of the entertainment, when he was going away with his daughters and Kondjé-Gul,
whom he had to see home to Madame Montier's, I had, without meaning it, so completely won his
good opinion, that I found myself invited to accompany my aunt who was dining with him the
next day but one.

Although it was only a fatality that had led to this extraordinary complication, I must own
that, when I began to think over it and to contemplate the possible consequences, I felt a
considerable anxiety. Hitherto, by a compromise with conscience, which Kondjé-Gul's childlike
simplicity rendered almost excusable, I had been enabled to deceive myself about the consequences
of this school-friendship with two American girls who were strangers to me. This, I thought,
would never be more than a chance companionship, and when her time with them was over, the
Misses Maud and Suzannah would remain ignorant of her real position, which they had no occasion
for suspecting. But I could not fail to perceive that our relations with the commodore must
aggravate our difficulties to a remarkable extent.

Our society affords shelter, certainly, to many a hidden romance: we have both honest loves
and shady intrigues confused and interlaced in its mazes so that they escape all notice. Yet,
certain as I felt that nothing could occur to betray our extraordinary secret, I was troubled
all the same at the part which I should have to play in this family with which my uncle was
on such intimate terms.

Placed face to face with the inexorable logic of facts, I could not long deceive myself as
to the course which the most elementary sense of delicacy prescribed to me. I could see clearly
during this last evening party, that Kondjé-Gul had no further need of Madame Montier's lessons
to complete her social education. Count Térals house being now ready to receive her, I need
only settle her there with her mother in order to commence at once the happy life of which
we had so often dreamed. Then it would be easy to withdraw gradually from the society of the
Montague girls, and thus banish all future risks.

Having decided upon this course, I wrote the same evening to Kondjé-Gul to ask her to prepare
for her return.

CHAPTER XI.

You know, my dear Louis, that whenever I have formed any plan, whether a reckless one or even
a wise one, I go straight at it with the stubbornness of a mule. This, perhaps, explains many
of my follies. According to my view (as a believer in free-will), man is himself a will or
independent power served by his organs; he is a kind of manifestation of the spirit of nature
created to control matter. Any man who abdicates his rights, or gives way before obstacles,
abandons his mission and returns to the rank of the beasts. His is a lost power, which has
evaporated into space. Such is my opinion.

This highly philosophical prelude was necessary, as you will see, in order to fix my principles
before proceeding any further; and, above all, in order to defend myself beforehand against
any rash accusation of fickleness in my plans. Science has mysterious paths, along which we
feel our way, without seeing clearly our destination. The consequence of which is that, just
when we fancy that we have reached the end, new and immense horizons open out before us.

But I am getting tired of my metaphor.

It all amounts to this--that having the honour of being my uncle's nephew, nothing happens
to me in the same way as to other mortals, and that consequently all the careful arrangements
that I made in regard to Kondjé-Gul have eventuated in a manner completely opposed to my express
intentions. But although my objective has been considerably enlarged, it remains substantially
the same, as I think you will remark.

Kondjé-Gul and her mother are now settled down in Count Téral's house; and it is hardly necessary
for me to describe to you the joy which she felt at the termination of her educational seclusion.
The first few days after her return were days of frenzied delight, and we spent them almost
entirely together. Her metamorphosis was now so complete, that I felt as if I were witnessing
one of the fabulous Indian avatars, and that another soul had taken up its dwelling in this
divinely beautiful body of hers. I could not tire of watching her as she walked, and listening
to her as she spoke. In her Oriental costume, which she occasionally resumes, in order to please
me, the American girl's ways, which she has picked up from Suzannah and Maud, produce a most
remarkable effect. And with all this was mingled that exquisitely blended aroma of youth, beauty,
and dignity, which permeated her and surrounded her like the sweet perfume of some strange
Oriental blossom!

We have settled our plan of life. Knowing the whole truth, as she does now, about our social
habits, she understands the necessity of veiling our happiness under the most profound mystery.
Confiding in the sanctity of a tie which her religion legitimizes, she is aware that we must
conceal it from the eyes of the world, like any secret marriage. Besides, what advantage would
there be in lifting the veil of mystery, and taking the poetry out of this romantic union--thus
reducing it to the vulgar level of an ordinary intrigue? If I were to treat my Kondjé like
a common mistress, would not that be degrading her?

When I tried to console her for the dulness which this constraint must cause her, she exclaimed,
with vehemence--

"Be so good as not to calumniate my woman's heart! What do I care for your country, and its
laws, so long as you love me? I don't care to know either your society, or its customs, or
its conventionalities. I belong to you, and I love you; that is all I see, all I feel. I am
neither your wife, nor your mistress. From the depths of my soul I feel that I am more than
either. I am your slave, and I wish to preserve my bonds. Command me, do what you like with
me; and when you love me no longer, kill me, that's all!"

"Yes, dear!" I replied, laughing at her rhapsodies, "I will sew you up in a sack, and go and
throw you in the Bosphorus some evening!"

She received this remark with a peal of childish laughter.

"Goodness me!" she said, in her confusion; "why, I was quite forgetting that I am civilised!"

Count Téral's house has been quite a find for us; it seems just as if it had been built expressly
for Kondjé-Gul and her mother. On the ground-floor, approached by a short flight of eight steps,
is a drawing-room, which opens into a sort of hall, resembling an artist's studio. The latter
serves as picture-gallery, library, and concert-room. Above the wainscoting the eye is relieved
by silk hangings, of a large grey-striped pattern on white ground, in contrast with which is
the rich garnet of a velvet-covered suite of furniture. There are some curious old cabinets
in carved ebony, set out with statuettes, vases, flowers, and nick-nacks. The general effect
is lively, enchanting, and luxurious; in fact, just what the home of a young lady of patrician
birth, who confines herself to a small circle of friends, should be. On the first floor are
the private apartments, and on the second the servants' rooms. The establishment is maintained
on the elegant, yet simple scale, which seems proper for members of good society; they keep
three horses, and a neat brougham: nothing more. Their luxuries, in short, are all in the well-considered
style suitable for a rich foreign lady and her daughter, who mix in Parisian society with the
reserve and delicate taste of two women anxious to avoid attracting too much attention.

Kondjé-Gul's private life is contrived, as well as everything else, to preserve her against
solitude or dulness. She is completing her "civilisation" with industrious zeal. Every morning,
from eight o'clock to twelve, is devoted to work; governesses from Madame Montier's come to
continue her course of lessons; then from one to two she practises on the piano. Her curious
mind, with its mixture of ardent imagination and youthful intelligence, is really producing
a wonderful intellectual structure upon its original foundation of native belief and superstitions.
I am often quite surprised by hearing her display, on the subject of our social contradictions,
an amount of observation and a grasp of view which would do credit to a philosopher.

After two o'clock she dresses, and takes a walk or a ride, or makes calls with her friends,
the Montague girls; for in spite of all my excellent intentions, their intimacy has only increased
since they were all emancipated from the restraints of school life. Kondjé-Gul being now under
her mother's protection, the most regular position she could have in the world, it would have
been difficult indeed to find a pretext for breaking it off. Moreover, I had come to the conclusion
that, owing to my having been introduced to the commodore's family by my uncle, there could
be no danger in these encounters with Kondjé-Gul at their house. It was by Maud and Suzannah
that I had been presented to their fair foreign companion, and who would suspect it was not
at Madame de Villeneuve's party that I had first spoken to her? Consequently, if any unforeseen
circumstance should some day betray our secret, I could at least rest assured that Commodore
Montague would never think of accusing me of anything more than a romantic adventure, resulting
by a natural train of circumstances from that introduction.

Nothing, as you perceive, could be more correct from the worldly point of view. I am well aware
that as a rigid moralist you would not neglect the opportunity, if I gave it you, of lecturing
me upon the rashness of my course. Well, for my part, I maintain that our respect for the proprieties
consists chiefly in our respect for ourselves. Chance, which led us into the society of the
foreign colony, together with Kondjé-Gul's charming manner, have naturally created for her
a number of pleasant acquaintances, which I should never perhaps have aimed at obtaining for
her. All that was needed to secure her this advantage was that we should both pay to the world
this tribute of mystery to which it is entitled. Our society is so mixed that I do not think
you would have been scandalised if you had met Kondjé-Gul at the ball at the British Embassy,
where she went the other night with her mother, and Commodore Montague. The admiration which
she excited as she passed must certainly have disarmed your objections.

Being always about with the Montague girls, Kondjé-Gul soon got invited with them to the balls
to which the commodore took his daughters. Having been admitted to two or three aristocratic
drawing-rooms, such as that of Princess B---- and Marchioness d'A----, she obtained the entry
to all the others. With your knowledge of the infatuations of our fashionable world, you can
imagine the extravagant style of admiring gossip with which such a beautiful rising star is
greeted wherever she goes. I should add that the young sinner understands it all very well,
and is very much flattered by it.

The mystery which surrounds her increases the peculiarity of our situation. Being always chaperoned
by her mother, whose foreign type of features creates an imposing impression, Kondjé-Gul is
taken for one of those young ladies who are models of filial respect. The style of their house
and of their dress, and that refined elegance which stamps them as ladies of distinction, designate
them no less indisputably the possessors of a large fortune and of high rank. All this, you
will perceive, formed a crowning justification for the success which Kondjé-Gul's remarkable
beauty had of itself sufficed to achieve for her. Then of course the fashionable reporters
of the official receptions fulfilled their duty by heralding the advent of this brilliant star.
They only made the mistake--one of those mistakes so common with journalists--of describing
her as a Georgian.

Confident in the security of our mystery, Kondjé-Gul and I find nothing more delightful than
the manoeuvres by which we deceive them all. We have invented a code of signs, the meaning
of which we keep to ourselves, and which leads to some very amusing by-play between us.

Thus the other evening, at Madame de T----'s, she was sitting by Maud and Suzannah, surrounded
by a number of admirers, when the young Duke de Marandal, one of the most ardent of my acknowledged
rivals, was lavishing upon her his most seductive attentions. Kondjé was listening to him with
a charming smile on her face. Now that evening, I must tell you, she had resolved upon a bit
of fun; and knowing that in France unmarried girls are not supposed to wear jewellery, she
had fastened on her wrist a heavy gold bracelet as a token of her servitude. So while the young
duke was talking, she looked at me, playing carelessly the while with what she calls her "slave's
ring." You may guess how we laughed together over it.

CHAPTER XII.

I have to inform you, my dear fellow, that my uncle, who has always been admired so far for
his virtuous conduct, and whom I should certainly have been ready to quote as a paragon of
husbands, seems just now on the way to forfeiting his character.

Here is what I have to relate:

Two days ago I went to the Theâtre des Variétés to see for the second time the play which is
just now the rage. Not having obtained a good place, I left my stall at the end of the first
act with the intention of not returning, when, as I passed a rather closely-curtained stage-box,
I was quite surprised by seeing Barbassou-Pasha, who had pretended to be going out that evening
to an important dinner with some business friends. He was accompanied by a lady whose features
were obscured by the darkness.

Being a discreet and respectful nephew, I was about to turn my eyes the other way, when he
beckoned me with an imperative gesture to join him in his box. I immediately obeyed this peremptory
summons, and, going round by the passage, got the box-opener to usher me in.

"Come in, and sit down," said my uncle, pointing out to me a chair behind him.

Once more I obeyed him, bowing politely to the lady, whose features I could not clearly distinguish.
I was hardly seated when I recognised the fair heroine of the fainting fit last week.

Exquisitely attired in a perfectly ravishing costume, Madame Jean Bonaffé replied to my compliments
by a charming smile, and a pretty glance from her fine Spanish eyes, which showed me clearly
that she was troubled by no remnants of that sudden indisposition which the too unexpected
encounter with my uncle had produced.

Our conversation turned upon the play. As she spoke French rather badly (although she understood
it very well), she asked my uncle from time to time to tell her the words she was in need of.
This he did, pronouncing them with grammatical deliberation, and then leaving us to talk alone,
while he surveyed the audience like one superior to such frivolities as feminine smalltalk.

My companion was very gay, and was crunching bonbons all the time.

I, as you may be sure, was gallant and attentive, and I followed her example with the bonbons.

My former aunt, Christina de Portero, is at the happy age of between twenty-eight and thirty.
Or, possibly, she is as old as thirty-two. Her figure is slender and supple, with those bold
expansions of the hips which, in dancing the fandango, make short work of the skirt. Add to
these fascinating details the accurate information with which I have already supplied you on
the subject of her exuberant bust, and you can picture her very well for yourself.

She has a fine erect head, clear and singularly expressive features, a warm complexion, a Grecian
nose, with quivering nostrils, and a mouth adorned with pearly teeth, with a soft, black, downy
growth on her upper lip. She is an Andalusian, overflowing with life and spirits, whose exuberance,
however, is tempered by her graceful and truly refined demeanour. One can guess what a fire
of passion smoulders within her.

My uncle was in perfection that evening. From time to time he discarded his philosophic calm
in order to take a look at us and reply in Spanish to his fair friend's questions. He addressed
her as "querida," in that indulgent tone which is peculiar to him, like a pasha who is signifying
his approbation.

During the course of our conversation I discovered that things had gone on like this between
them since the day after that famous scene at Villebon, whose lively incidents had doubtless
conduced to this friendly reconciliation. How had my uncle managed to get round the ferocious
native of Toulon? That I could never discover. However this may have been, after the play was
over, we went off, all three of us, to the Café Anglais.

We had a capital supper, during which Madame Jean Bonaffé, feeling more at her ease under these
intimate circumstances, gave free play to her fascinations. I could soon perceive that in her
pleasure at forgetting her regrettable escapades of the past, her grief over her supposed widowhood,
and also the short-lived and illegal marriage which she had contracted by mistake, she expected
that my uncle would settle her at Paris. She appeared to speak of this happy prospect as of
something upon which her mind was set, and it gave rise to a number of beautiful castles in
the air.

Barbassou-Pasha, gallant and attentive as ever, listened to all these proposed arrangements
for her felicity, in that good-natured, patronizing manner which he always maintains with women,
and only departs from in the case of my aunt Eudoxia, who keeps him in check. Nodding his approval
of everything she said, he went on eating and drinking, like a practical man who will not neglect
the claims of a good supper, and he allowed the fair Andalusian to lavish all her attentions
upon him.

About two o'clock in the morning, we took a brougham, drove back my aunt to the Rue de l'Arcade,
where she occupies a splendidly furnished suite of rooms, and then returned home.

"What do you think of all that, my dear Louis? Hum!"

Our little circle has been augmented by a very pleasant and genial addition, Mr. Edward Wolsey,
a nephew of the commodore's, who may very likely be engaged to Maud.

As I have become quite intimate with Commodore Montague's party, I generally join their group,
without the smallest fear of raising a suspicion regarding these encounters. The attention
which I pay to Kondjé-Gul and to Suzannah have caused no little envy, for, as you know, Kondjé-Gul
pretends she does not dance. This peculiarity, together with her original fascinations with
which a certain childish simplicity is mingled, give rise to the most extraordinary conjectures.
What is the cause of all this reserve? men ask. Is it modesty, bashfulness, or pride? They
know that she can dance splendidly, for she has been seen dancing occasionally at private parties
with Maud and Suzannah. They think it must be due to some jealous fiancé, her betrothal to
whom is kept secret, and to whom she is devoted.

Lent having interrupted the course of public entertainments, our private parties which usually
took place at Teral House, became the gainers by it. Maud and Suzannah felt more free and easy
there, and Kondjé-Gul experienced quite a childish delight in holding what she called her "receptions."
Our small circle was soon augmented by a dozen select friends, picked carefully from the ranks
of their young ball-room acquaintances. There were one or two mothers among them whose presence
did not interfere with the harmony of these charming gatherings, and the tone of elegant distinction
which prevailed in no respect interfered with their exuberant gaiety.

This break in the giddy circle of fashionable dissipation, afforded quite a new happiness to
Kondjé-Gul and me. In the course of her initiation into the refinements of our life, her exotic
charms had acquired some new and indescribable embellishments. We spent many a long evening
alone together in that delightful privacy which affords the sweetest opportunities for communion
between loving hearts, and we grew to feel like a modern Darby and Joan. I was quite proud
of my handiwork, and contemplated with joy this pure and ideal being whose nature I had inspired,
whose soul and whose heart I had moulded. The cultivation of this young and virgin mind, as
I may be permitted to call it, so possessed by its Oriental beliefs, had produced a charming
contrast of enthusiasm and calm reason which imparted a most original effect to her frank utterances
of new ideas. I was often quite surprised to find in her mingled with her Asiatic superstitions,
and transformed as it were by contact with a simpler faith, the substance of my own private
sentiments and of my wildest aspirations. One might really think that she had borrowed her
thoughts, nay, her very life, as it were, from me, and that her tender emotions had their source
in my own heart.

Our happiness seemed so assured, and we had it so completely under our own control, that it
would have appeared absurd for us to imagine it to be at the mercy of Fate. Still, in the midst
of this tranquillity there sometimes arose in my mind an anxious thought. Light clouds floated
across my clear azure sky, and often, as I sat by her side, I began to think, in spite of myself,
about the future--about this marriage of which you yourself have reminded me, and from the
obligations to which nothing could save me. However great the sacrifice might be, I could not
even think of failing to carry out my uncle's wishes in this matter. My heart bound me to this
adoptive father who had placed unlimited faith in my loyalty: my whole life was pledged to
this chivalrous benefactor who had left all his fortune in my hands, nor could I permit the
least suspicion of ingratitude on my part to pass over his mind.

But melancholy as was the recollection of this duty to which I had resigned myself, I must
confess that, after all, this impression was but a fugitive one. I no longer attempted to struggle
against the temptation to a compromise, by means of which I had determined to reconcile my
passion for Kondjé-Gul with my marital duties to Anna Campbell. The retiring nature of the
latter would surely permit our union to be treated as one of those arrangements known as mariages
de convenance, and my charming romantic connection with Kondjé-Gul would always remain a secret.
Moreover, my uncle, should he ever discover this after-match of my oriental life, was certainly
not the man to be seriously scandalised at it, directly he assured himself that "the respectabilities"
had not been violated.

By-the-bye, I should tell you that was a false alarm I sounded about my uncle! I calumniated
him when I believed him to have committed anything so shocking as a double adultery.

We went again yesterday to the forest of Meudon, which we had almost given up visiting of late,
my uncle having been engaged for the last fortnight upon "some important morning business,"
as he says. Well, we arrived at Villebon's restaurant, our usual destination. When we entered
that celebrated room--empty this time--which had been the scene of the drama which you remember,
the latter came back very naturally to our memory, and would have done so even without the
superfluous aid of the grins with which our waiter greeted us. Equally naturally, and as becomes
a dutiful nephew, who does not wish to appear indifferent to family matters, I, seeing my uncle
cast a glance towards the window near which the incident that produced such momentous consequences
occurred, took the opportunity of asking after my pseudo-aunt Christina, about whom I had not
had any previous chance of questioning him.

"Christina!" exclaimed Barbassou-Pasha, "why, she's gone back!"

"Dear me! I thought she wanted to settle in Paris?"

His eye lightened up with a sly look.

"Oh, yes! She would have liked to do so very well," he replied. "In fact, we made the round
of the upholsterers' shops,--and she fancied, up to the last moment, that it was all settled.
But I had made up my mind, and I sent her back to Jean Bonaffé."

"The deuce you did!" I said, quite astonished at the news.

Then my uncle just closed one of his eyes, and looked at me out of the other, as he added--

"You see, I was not sorry to return that rascal the little trick he played me before!"

And, with that, Barbassou-Pasha began to whistle a hunting song, with all the calm complacency
of an honest soul on satisfactory terms with his neighbour. I accompanied him whistling the
bass, and we got on very well together that time.

I believe that after this explanation, you will at once renew the esteem which you used to
accord to my uncle, and will join me in a sincere expression of regret for having suspected
him for one moment in this matter:--in which, in reality, he had merely played the part of
an avenging deity, punishing sinners with remorse by recalling to them the blisses of their
lost Paradise. And I am ready to testify that he has spared no expense; for during the last
three weeks he has had from me more than twenty thousand francs in pocket-money. I warrant
you he has given his fair friend a jolly time of it, purposely holding the golden cup to her
faithless lips, and letting them taste of all the pleasures----

The severe lesson of an abrupt return to her husband, Jean Bonaffé, after the awakening of
such delightful anticipations, will certainly impress the guilty one, and engrave in her heart
a keen remorse for her past misconduct.

CHAPTER XIII.

We have been four months at Paris without anything to disturb the happy life which we have
led, secure from all suspicions. Nothing can be more original or sweeter than this love concealed
from all prying eyes, the exquisite pleasures of which you can imagine. Kondjé, delighted with
her triumphs, plays everywhere her part of enchantress.

My romance is, however, complicated by a circumstance which I must at once relate to you.

You will not have forgotten that my aunt had seen Kondjé-Gul at Baroness de Villeneuve's party,
and that she conceived a great liking for her. Their friendship having been cemented during
several parties at the commodore's, where they met each other, my aunt very naturally invited
Madame Murrah and her daughter to dinner one evening. She is fond of young people, as you know;
and Suzannah, Maud, and Kondjé-Gul formed such a charming trio, that she soon insisted on their
coming to dine with her every Thursday. Indeed, Kondjé has frequently met Anna Campbell there,
for the latter has leave out from her convent twice a month. The consequence was, we became
in time so completely involved in intimate relations together, that it would have been imprudent
to make any break in them: moreover, Kondjé-Gul was so very happy and so proud of this intimacy
which allied her still more closely with me! All of them were charmed with her; even my uncle,
who, delighted at the opportunity of conversing with her in Turkish, treated her with quite
a display of gallantry.

Among the constant visitors at our house, I should have mentioned Count Daniel Kiusko, a fabulously
rich young Slav, the owner of platinum mines in the Krapacks mountains, and in the forests
of Bessarabia. This being his first visit to Paris, I found myself selected to act as his guide
or bear-leader, and to introduce him to our gay world. It was a simple enough task, for that
matter, since I had hardly anything to do but to present him in society.

He was tall, slenderly built, and a fine specimen of the young boyard, with that determined
expression of countenance which suggests a habit of acting and being obeyed as the feudal lord.
In less than a week, with the most lofty recklessness, he had thrown away half a million francs
in the club at baccarat, and his other doings are all in the same vein. With such a start,
you may be sure he has taken the world by storm, so that his friendship is sought after as
a prize. A successful duel which he fought with a Brazilian made his reputation as a skilful
swordsman.

His gratitude to me, and a sort of frank admiration of superior qualities, which he fancies
he recognises in me, have won for me his friendship. I have quite become "his guide, philosopher,
and friend." I find him a capital companion, and, like some modern Damon and Pythias, we hardly
pass a day without seeing one another. At first he was rather surprised that I abstained from
the promiscuous pleasures of the gay world; but he soon divined that I was restrained by the
spell of a secret passion, and this placed me still higher in his estimation.

I gained credit with Kiusko by taking him into my confidence, and telling him that I had in
truth a liaison with a young widow, whose high position in society demanded extreme prudence
on my part. With the tact of a thorough-bred gentleman, he never referred to the subject again.
Being himself associated with us in our relations with the Montagues, through meeting them
at my aunt's, he would never dream of my having any attachment in that quarter; indeed, he
was now almost on an equal footing of friendship with me in our intercourse with the fair trio,
and was spoken of as one of their "tame cats." Such was the position of things when the following
event occurred.

It happened a few days ago. I was in my aunt's boudoir, talking about some matter, which I
forget; she was knitting away at a little piece of ornamental work, with her usual business-like
industry, and I was playing with her dog "Music," a young animal from Greece.

"By the bye, André," she said, "I have an important commission to discharge, concerning which
I must consult you."

"All my wisdom is at your service, aunt."

"Let us talk seriously," she continued; "you have to undergo a regular cross-examination, and
I command you to reply like an obedient nephew."

"Oh, you frighten me!"

"Don't interrupt me, please. In my person you see before you a family council."

"What, all at once, and without any preparation?--without even changing your dress?"

"You impertinent boy, do you mean to say this does not suit me?"

"On the contrary, I find it quite bewitching."

"Well, then?"

"All right, I ought not to have interrupted you."

"Very well! let us resume--let me see, what was I saying?"

"That in that handsome dark violet velvet dress you represent the grandmother of the family."

"Just so, you're quite right! Now, attention please! The trial has commenced, be on your guard."

"Right you are!"

"Well, what do you think of Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul Murrah?" she asked me point blank, looking
me straight in the face.

This question was so unexpected that I felt myself blush like a girl of sixteen.

"Why," I answered, "I think her--most charming and beautiful."

"That's right! Pray don't alarm yourself, my dear young man!" continued my aunt with a smile.

"Oh, I'm not the least alarmed!"

"That's quite clear!--Well, you admit that you find her most charming and beautiful. Let us
proceed. What is your present position with regard to her? Tell me the whole truth, and mind
don't keep anything back."

I had found time to recover my self-possession.

"Take care," I said, laughing in my turn; "this question of yours may lead us much further
than you imagine."

"That's all nonsense. Don't try to turn off my questions with jokes, and please leave my dog's
ear alone! If you pull it about like that, you'll make it grow crooked. There, that'll do!
Now, answer me seriously, and with all the respect which you ought to feel in speaking of a
young lady like Kondjé-Gul Murrah."

I was inspired with the brilliant idea of making game of her.

"Must I tell you the whole truth?" I replied. "Do you really require to know it?"

"I demand it," she said, "in its naked, unsophisticated reality."

"All right, aunt! you shall have it;" I said, in a confident tone. "I suppose you know that
Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul is a Circassian. Well, she belongs to my harem; I bought her at Constantinople
eight months ago."

My aunt split her sides with laughter.

"There now!" she exclaimed; "what ever is the use of expecting a word of sense from a lunatic
like you?"

"You asked me for the truth, and I have told it to you!" I replied, laughing secretly at the
trick I was playing her.

"Leave off talking rubbish! Can't you understand, you silly boy, that I am speaking to you
about Kondjé-Gul because I can see how the land lies? It is quite clear to me that between
you two there is some sort of secret understanding; now what is it? I know nothing about it,
but however innocent this mystery may be, I see too much danger about it not to caution you.
Mademoiselle Murrah is not one of those drawing-room dolls with whom it is safe for a man to
risk a little of his heart in the game of flirtation; no, the man who once falls in love with
her will love her for ever, body and soul, he will be bewitched."

"Why, then, she must be Circe herself," I exclaimed: "it's a terrible look-out for me!"

"Oh, you need not laugh," she continued: "your lofty philosophical contempt would not serve
you in the least. A beautiful sorceress like that girl is all the more dangerous because her
own heart is liable to be kindled by the flames of her incantations. In her heart slumber passions
which will devour her some day, both her and the man she loves. That is why I am reading you
this lecture, with the object of warning you in time, before your youthful recklessness has
carried you too far in this affair; especially as you are already betrothed to another."

Notwithstanding the semi-jocular manner which my aunt had preserved throughout this lecture,
I could easily perceive that she was seriously alarmed on my behalf. I therefore abandoned
my jesting tone, assuring her that neither my imagination nor my heart were in the smallest
danger with Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul Murrah, and that "no change whatever would be made in our
present relations." This jesuitical reply appeared to satisfy her.

"In that case," she continued, "I may set to work to get her married?"

"Get her married?" I exclaimed in astonishment.

"Certainly. Did I not tell you, before I began questioning you, that I had an important commission
to discharge? My young cousin Kiusko adores her, he has begged me to see Madame Murrah on his
behalf, and I expect to call on her this very day, to set this important business in train."

Although I might have long ago foreseen the consequences of emancipating Kondjé-Gul from her
harem life, and the conflict which it would involve me in with our social customs, I must admit
that this revelation of my aunt's intentions caused me no small anxiety. Kondjé's remarkable
beauty created too much sensation in the world for me to hope that rivals would not turn up
in large numbers, against whom I should have to defend myself. Her personal independence, the
wealth which her mother's establishment indicated, and her youth, all seemed to leave the field
open to sanguine hopes, and to attempts to win her hand, to the open acknowledgment of which
no obstacle appeared. Nevertheless, well prepared as I was for such attempts, and fully expecting
to witness them, I was very much affected by the news that Kiusko was my rival. It was impossible
for me to doubt that his determination to marry Kondjé-Gul was the result of reflection as
well as of love, and that it would be only strengthened by any obstacle. Of a calm and energetic
nature, endowed with an iron will, and accustomed to see everything submit to his law, he had
also preserved that freshness of the affections which would be intensified by the impulses
of a first love.

All the same, and notwithstanding my friendship for him, I certainly could not think of explaining
to him the strange situation in which he had in his ignorance placed himself. To proclaim Kondjé-Gul
to be my mistress would be to banish her from the society into which she had won her way: it
would have wounded her spirit to the quick and determined her degradation, without reason or
advantage either for Kiusko or for myself. Moreover, did I not owe a stricter fidelity to her
than to this friend of yesterday?

I resolved accordingly to keep my counsel, and wait upon events. I felt too confident of regulating
them in my own interests to be afraid of the consequences. However, I was surprised by an incident
which at first seemed insignificant. Having been informed of my aunt's projected visit to Kondjé's
mother, I went to her the same evening, thinking that she would at once tell me about it, but
she said nothing. I thought, of course, that some obstacle had occurred which had deferred
my aunt's negotiations.

The next day, without seeming to attach any importance to the matter, I questioned my aunt
about it. She informed me that she had been to Madame Murrah's the day before.

"Did you commence your overtures on behalf of Kiusko's grand scheme?" I asked her.

"Yes," she answered.

"And--were they entertained?"

"Oh, you are going too fast! According to Mussulman usage, matters don't proceed at that rate.
We did not get any further than the preliminaries. I explained our amorous friend's eager anxiety,
and the next step is to consult Kondjé-Gul."

"Meanwhile, does the mother appear favourable to your request?"

"It was not her duty to declare herself at the first interview," said my aunt. "She has, as
you know, all the fatalistic composure of her race; still, when I described Daniel's fortune,
I fancied she listened to me with some approval."

"Did she tell you what dowry she could give her daughter?"

"Dowry! are you mad? We talked in Turkish and discussed the matter in the Turkish way. I think
I should have surprised her exceedingly if I had given her the idea that I was asking, not
only for Kondjé-Gul herself, but for some pecuniary remuneration to the noble Kiusko for taking
her. That would have been sufficient to upset all her ideas, for don't you know that in the
East it is the husband, on the contrary, who always makes a present to the parents of the girl
he wants to have? This arrangement, by the way, seems to me more chivalrous and more manly.
Kiusko, for that matter, cares about as much for money as for a straw: he loves her, and that
is enough for him."

I took good care not to disturb the illusive hopes which my aunt had already conceived. Being
reassured by the manner in which Madame Murrah had played her part, it only remained for me
to determine the time and the form of refusal best adapted to the circumstances.

While I was in the midst of these reflections, Count Kiusko came in, like any familiar friend,
without being announced. He held out his hand to me with more than his usual cordiality. By
his happy looks I judged that he had already had a word of encouragement from my aunt, and
that he had come to learn in detail the result of her first attempt. Not wishing to disturb
their interview, I pretended after a minute or two that I had some letters to write, and left them.

The following morning I was only just out of bed when Kiusko came up with his spurs on. We
had decided the day before to ride together to the Bois. As he usually went to the rendezvous
by himself, I guessed that to-day he wanted to appear to have been taken there by me, in order
to cover his embarrassment, or perhaps his bashfulness when he met Kondjé-Gul. Having made
up my mind to avoid all confidences, I kept my valet in the room with me, dressing myself very
deliberately, and without any compassion for Kiusko's impatience. This compelled us, directly
we were mounted, to gallop to the Bois, a procedure not very favourable to confidential effusions.

We only joined the party at the Avenue of Acacias on their way back. I took care to watch Kiusko
as he saluted Kondjé-Gul. He blushed and stammered out a compliment addressed collectively
to all the three girls. Kondjé's countenance betrayed nothing more than the flush produced
by her ride. We started off in two separate parties. From motives of discretion, I suppose,
Kiusko remained behind with Suzannah and the commodore. Edward and I had gone in front with
Kondjé-Gul and Maud, who was quarrelling with her cousin upon the important question, as to
whether we should gallop straight ahead or make a round between the trees. Kondjé-Gul decided
the matter by suddenly entering the cover.

"Who loves me, let him follow me!" she said, with a laugh.

I followed her, and in a few moments we found ourselves side by side.

"Oh, such a fine piece of news!" she said to me, as soon as Maud and Edward, who were behind
us, were out of hearing.

"What is it?" I asked.

"Well, I must tell you that the day before yesterday your aunt came to see my mother while
I was away, and there and then formally requested my hand in marriage for the noble Count Daniel
Kiusko. My mother related this to me this morning, when I got up."

"And what did you answer her?"

"Oh, I laughed at first, and then I told mamma that she must inform you at once, so that you
may decide upon the manner in which she shall repulse the enemy."

"That's simple enough," said I. "She has only to tell my aunt, when next she calls, that she
has consulted you."

"Is it as simple as that?"

"Certainly," I said, with a feeling of annoyance at the idea that she knew of Daniel's love.
"Is it not solely your will that has to be consulted?"

Kondjé-Gul regarded me with astonishment.

"My will?" she said. "Good heavens! do you love me no longer?"

"Why should you imagine I love you no longer?" I answered.

"One might suppose that you wished to remind me of that horrible liberty which I am so much
afraid of."

I then realised how stupid and abrupt I had been, and asked her forgiveness.

"You naughty fellow!" she said, pointing to the golden bracelet clasped round her arm.

We decided that I should go to her mother to concert with her and dictate to her the precise
terms of a refusal which should cut short all Kiusko's hopes. We were just then emerging from
the narrow avenue, and Maud and Edward were joining us again. Our ride came to an end without
any other incident of note, except indeed that it appeared to me Daniel was watching Kondjé
and myself, as if he wanted to guess what had taken place during our tête-à-tête, which he
had observed from a distance. I troubled myself no further about this, but made up my mind
to take measures that very day to put an end to this stupid adventure.

About three o'clock I went to Téral House, and in an interview with Kondjé-Gul's mother drew
up the precise terms of her answer to my aunt, which consisted of a formula usually employed
on similar occasions.

"Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul feels greatly flattered by the honour which Count Daniel Kiusko has
intended to confer upon her, but is unable to accept it." To this we added, in order to convince
him it was not one of those half-decisive answers which he might hope to overcome: "She desires
to inform their friend confidentially that her heart is no longer free, and that she is engaged
to one of her relations." This partly-confidential answer possessed the merits of a candid
communication, after receiving which no honourable man could press her without giving offence.
Moreover, it established a definite status, under which Kondjé-Gul could shelter herself for
the future from all importunate attempts on the part of my rival.

CHAPTER XIV.

You are returning once more, my dear Louis, to your favourite occupation of knocking down skittles
which you have set up yourself, and are trying to exercise your humorous spirit at my expense.

You tell me that my Oriental system of life crumbles away upon contact with the hard world,
and with those sentiments which I venture to class among the antiquated prejudices of a worn-out
civilisation.

You do not perceive, you subtle scoffer, that every one of your arguments can be turned against
you to establish the superiority of the customs of the harem. Can't you see that all these
mishaps, these troubles, and these outbursts of jealousy, which you have intentionally magnified,
originate solely in Kondjé-Gul's emancipation from the harem, and that none of them would have
occurred if I had not departed from Turkish usages? Consider on the one hand the tranquillity
of my amours with Zouhra, Nazli, and Hadidjé, my easy life with them, as a poet and a sultan,
secure from all annoying rivalries, and on the other hand look at these difficulties and contests
arising all at once out of our social conventionalities.

I do not really know why I should waste any more time discussing the question with you.

Being now confident that after the declaration which Madame Murrah would next day make to my
aunt, Kondjé-Gul would be freed henceforth from the importunities of Count Kiusko, I soon recovered
my peace of mind. I entertained no doubts as to the effect which such a decisive answer would
produce upon Daniel. I knew that he was too deeply in love not to feel the blow severely.

I expected, accordingly, to hear that he was mourning in some secluded retreat over his lost
hopes. For him to see Kondjé-Gul again after such an unqualified refusal would only revive
his sorrows and cause him more suffering. More than this, it would place her in an uncomfortable
position since his declaration of love to her. But while I was convincing myself as to this
necessity for him to break off his relations with her, great was my surprise at seeing him
reappear among us the following day as calm as ever, and just as if no unpleasant incident
had befallen him. Time went on, and still there was no change in this respect. One might even
have said, to judge from his easy demeanour and from a certain increase of assurance in his
manner, that he felt confident in the future success of his endeavours, and was only waiting
for the happy moment when his aspirations would be realized.

I could not help being puzzled by this remarkable result of a decided rejection of his suit,
but as I had so plainly avoided my rival's confidences in my embarrassment at the part I was
playing, I could not now attempt to regain them. I began to suspect that Kondjé-Gul's mother
had rehearsed her part imperfectly, and at last made up my mind to question my aunt discreetly
on this point.

"By the by, my dear aunt," I said to her one morning in a perfectly unconcerned tone of voice,
"you have not told me anything more about Kiusko's intended marriage."

"Ah, there is no longer any question of it!" she answered me. "He presented himself too late:
the fair Kondjé-Gul's heart is occupied. She is even engaged to one of her own relations I hear."

"Then he seems to me to be bearing his disappointment very easily."

"Oh, don't be too sure about that! Daniel is not one of those whining lovers who publish their
lamentations to the whole world. He loves her, as I could see by his sudden paleness when I
announced to him the definite rejection of his offer; but he has an iron will, and you may
be certain that if he is so calm, that only shows he still cherishes some hope. As for me,
I won't believe in Kondjé-Gul's marriage with her cousin, until I see them coming out of church
together."

Now although it was of small consequence to me that Kiusko, in his robust faith, still preserved
a remnant of hope, I must admit that I felt somewhat aggravated by his presumptuous pertinacity.
As he had formally declared his love, Kondjé-Gul could not henceforth feign to ignore it. There
was an offensive kind of impertinence to her about that coolness of his, which affected to
take no account of an engagement of which she had informed him as a justification for her refusal.
However reserved he might be, and even if he never betrayed by a single word the secret feeling
which he concealed so carefully during our intercourse as friends, it would be impossible for
me not to feel the constraint of such a situation. So far as he was concerned, it did not seem
to trouble him in the least. This demeanour, and this insolent confidence of his--such as might
be expected in a petty feudal tyrant--irritated me inexpressibly; but an incident occurred,
at first sight insignificant, which diverted the current of my suspicions into quite a different
channel.

One morning, about ten o'clock, I was accompanying my aunt upon one of her rounds of visiting
the poor. As we happened to be passing Count Téral's house, I was very much surprised to see
Daniel coming out of it. What had he been doing there? This was Kondjé-Gul's lesson time, and
certainly not the time of day for callers. This discovery put me into a state of agitation
which it was extremely difficult for me to avoid showing.

I reflected, however, that it was quite possible Maud or Susannah had entrusted him with a
message or with some book, which he had come to deliver. However that might be, I wanted to
clear up the mystery. When half-way down the Champs Elysées, I pretended to have an order to
give to a coachmaker, and leaving my aunt to return home alone, I went back to Téral House.

As I had anticipated, Kondjé-Gul was shut up with her music-mistress. I sent up my name in
the ordinary way, and was immediately introduced.

"What! is it you?" she said, pretending before her mistress to be surprised at such an early
visit. "Have you come to play a duet with me?"

"No," I answered, "I was passing by this way, and I will only trouble you long enough to find
out if you have formed any plans for to-day with your friends the Montagues."

"None," she replied, "beyond that they are expecting me at three o'clock."

"Then they did not send you any message this morning?"

"No. Has anything happened?" she added in Turkish.

"Nothing whatever," I replied, with a laugh. "My aunt brought me this way, so I thought I would
come and say good morning to you."

"How kind and nice of you!" she said, with evident warmth.

She had not left her piano, and I remained standing, so as to show that I had only called on
my way, to receive her orders. I shook hands with her, saying that I did not wish to interrupt
her lessons any more, and took my departure.

It was evident that Kondjé knew nothing about Daniel's visit. On my way out I spoke to Fanny,
and gave her some instructions, telling her that I was going to send some flowers. This girl
was quite devoted to me, and her discretion might be perfectly relied upon. However, as I did
not wish her to think that I was questioning her about her mistress, I asked her in an indifferent
manner if the count had not brought anything for me.

"I don't know, sir," she answered. "The count came an hour ago, but he told me to send in his
name to Mademoiselle Kondjé's mother, who was expecting him, I think, and who ordered me to
show him into the small drawing-room, where she went to see him. When he left, he said nothing
to me."

"Did he say nothing to Pierre?" I added.

"Pierre was not in, sir," replied Fanny. "The count only spoke to Madame Murrah."

"Ah, very well!" I said, carelessly.

These inquiries had led me to a curious discovery. What was the meaning of this private interview
between Kondjé's mother and Daniel? Determined to get to the bottom of this mystery, I went
up without any more ado to Madame Murrah's private sitting-room. She did not appear surprised,
from which I concluded that she knew I was in the house, and was prepared to see me. For my
part I pretended to have come to settle some details connected with the house and the stables,
for I was obliged to assist her in the management of all her domestic affairs. She listened
to what I said with that deferential sort of smile which she invariably assumes with me. When
she was quite absorbed in the calculations which I had submitted, I said to her all at once:

"By the way, what did Count Kiusko come here for so early in the day?"

I thought I noticed her face redden, but this was only a transient impression.

"The count?" she answered, in a most profoundly surprised tone. "I did not see him! Has he
been here?"

"Why, Fanny showed him in here," I replied, "and you have spoken to him."

"Ah, yes! this morning," she exclaimed sharply, and with emphasis on these words. "Goodness
me, what a poor head I have! I thought you said yesterday evening. I understand French so badly,
you know. Yes, yes, he has been here. The poor young man is off his head. This is the second
time he has been here to beg me for Kondjé-Gul's hand. He is quite crazy! crazy!"

"Oh, then he has been before! But why did not you inform me?"

"It is true: I had forgotten to do so!" she replied.

I deemed it useless to appear to press her any more on the matter. Had Madame Murrah tried
to keep me in ignorance of these visits of Count Kiusko's? Or was this merely a proof, or the
contrary, of the slight importance which she attached to them? In any case, for me to let her
see my distrust in her would only put her on her guard. So I broke off the subject, and resumed
my household instructions, as if I had remarked nothing more important in this matutinal incident
than the stupid pertinacity of a discomfited lover. A quarter of an hour afterwards I took
my leave of her in quite a jaunty way.

Once out of the house, I considered the matter over calmly, and made my reflections upon it.
Had I, by accident, stumbled upon a plot, or was my jealous mind alarmed without occasion by
a foolish attempt which Kondjé-Gul's mother could not avert? Accustomed as she was to a sort
of passive submission, had she allowed herself to be cowed by a man who spoke in the tone of
a master? Was it not possible that, in her embarrassment with the part she had to play, she
had let out rather more than was prudent? Was anything more than this necessary in order to
explain Daniel's conduct?

Without any kind of scruple Kiusko brought to the contest all the savage energy of a will constituted
to bend everything before it. The choice of instruments was a matter of small importance to
a man of his nature, the incompleteness of whose education had left him scarcely half-civilized.
Accustomed to have all his own way, he made straight for his object, rushing like a bull at
every obstacle. The suppleness of his Slavonic character displayed itself in this desperate
game, in which, the happiness of his life was at stake. He loved Kondjé-Gul, as I knew full
well, with that blind love which admitted no compromise with reason. With the mother as his
ally, he no doubt conjectured that the marriage would be brought about in accordance with Turkish
custom without Kondjé-Gul being consulted.

My first idea was to interfere violently and so frustrate this plot, but enlightened upon those
manoeuvres, which afforded me an explanation of Daniel's incredible constancy after the repulse
which he had sustained, I could see the folly of any provocation on my part, and the consequent
danger of injuring Kondjé-Gul and perhaps creating a scandal. Henceforth I hold the threads
of these underhand intrigues: I am about to catch my rival in his own trap and mislead him
as much as I please.

These reflections calmed me a little. After all, would it not be insane for me to lose my temper
about a rivalry which, all said and done, was only one of the innumerable incidents which I
had foreseen as consequences of Kondjé-Gul's beauty? Such beauty would of course attract passionate
admiration wherever she went. Good heavens! what would become of me if I took any more notice
of Kiusko than of the rest of them? Besides, being informed now of all his movements, I was
in a position to intervene whenever it became necessary to put an end to his hostile projects.

A great worry has come upon me, my friend.

I must tell you that there are some barracks in the Rue de Babylone; from which it follows
that a great many officers lodge in the vicinity. Moreover, the garden of my house, although
enclosed by a wall on the boulevard side, is not sufficiently screened to prevent daring eyes
from peering into it from various neighbouring windows.

Now, as a few days of sunshine had favoured us with very mild weather, my houris did not fail
to go and stroll about the lawns. Naturally enough they attracted the attention of some indiscreet
persons whose curiosity had been quickened by the apparent mystery of this closed house, and
by all the gossip in the neighbourhood about "the Turk." It also happens that the house adjoining
mine is tenanted by the colonel, whence it results that from morn to eve, there is a constant
coming and going of sergeant-majors, lieutenants and captains, who rival one another in casting
fascinating glances upon this corner of Mahomet's paradise.

I must do my houris the justice to say that they do not show themselves unveiled; still I will
leave you to imagine the agitation which they cause among the whole regimental staff.

All this was certainly but an inconvenience which pure chance threw in my way, amid my methodical
experiments with the new manners and customs of which I wish to show the superiority. It would
not have been fitting for a sincere psychologist to convert a purely adventitious difficulty
into a defeat; and the removal of my harem would have furnished a specious argument for some
detractor of my doctrines who would not have failed to seize hold of this slight practical
obstacle in order to raise a controversy. Then, too, I should have been violating human dignity
and confessing the fragility of my system of social renovation if I had so lowered myself as
to completely sequestrate the women after the fashion of some vile Asiatic satrap.

To be brief, I stood firm; and I conscientiously instructed Mohammed, who was already alarmed,
not to interfere with the freedom of their diversions in the garden.

Being confident in the healthy effects of an application of the immortal principles, I had
ceased to busy myself about this affair, when, as I arrived in the evening three days ago,
I saw Mohammed hasten to me, looking scared. With signs of acute emotion, he begged of me to
hear him privately, having an important communication to make.

I entered his room where I invited him to unbosom himself.

He then informed me--in a tone of genuine despair, I will admit--that the honour of the harem
and also his own were terribly compromised. In point of fact, he had during the day surprised
Zouhra at her window corresponding by signs with a young and superb nobleman who had come to
one of the windows of the neighbouring house. This audacious lover, judging by his military
uniform, bedizened with gold lace, must at the least be a muchir or general.

Had a thunderbolt fallen at Mohammed's feet it certainly would not have caused him greater
consternation. The unfortunate fellow did not seem to doubt for one moment what punishment
awaited him. But I reassured him, for as you may well suppose, with my system this useless
practice is destined to disappear as being superfluous: the dignified position of eunuch not
being compatible with our laws. However, under the circumstances, I did not think that I could
dispense with opening a serious inquiry concerning this offence which, according to Mohammed,
had been perpetrated repeatedly for some days past. Even letters, thrown over the walls, had
been exchanged.

On the morrow then, I repaired to the house before the hour usually selected for this correspondence,
and placing myself on the upper floor, I waited, screened by a curtain, thanks to which I could
watch the manoeuvres of the accomplices, at my ease. Mohammed was moaning like a fallen man,
deprived of his grandeur and dishonoured. I soon saw Zouhra appear, charmingly adorned and
carrying a nosegay in her hand; but the other window, which had been indicated to me, remained
unoccupied. After ten minutes or so she became restless and began to pace up and down her room
in a way that conclusively proved her impatience.

Provided with a good opera-glass I carefully watched her goings-on.

Nearly half an hour elapsed. There was still nobody at the other window. Mohammed, who became
more and more downcast, was beginning to fear that he would be unable to prove to me the full
extent of my disgrace, when suddenly the swift approach of my houri to her window betokened
something fresh. She lowered her nosegay by way of saluting, and my glasses were at once turned
to the direction in which she was darting her glances.

On the third floor of the colonel's house I could see a splendid drum-major in full uniform,
with large epaulets, his chest bedizened with broad gold braid and his hand resting upon his
heart. As the room was not high enough to accommodate the lofty plume towering above his bearskin,
my rival was leaning half out of the window, and his tricolour insignium seemed to pierce the sky.

I remained dazzled at the sight of him: he glistened like the sun!

With Zouhra it had been love at first sight. The pantomimic business gradually began on both
sides; on the girl's part it was naïve and still restrained; on the drum-major's, ardent and
passionate, though now and then he struck a contemplative attitude. He showed her a letter
and she showed him another one, which she held in readiness. The sight made a flush rise to
Mohammed's brow.

In presence of such avowals doubt was no longer possible. The drum-major soon became emboldened
and raised the tips of his fingers to his lips. His kisses journeyed through space; and then
with his hands clasped he begged of Zouhra to return them.

I must confess that the wretched girl defended herself for a few minutes with bashful reserve.
But she was so pressed and implored that at last I saw her weaken, and anxious and hesitating,
she yielded.

I was betrayed!

Mohammed sank down, uttering a plaintive moan. For my own part I thought of my uncle's misfortune.
Was it fate?

However, my uncle is not the only man who comes from Marseilles; I also come from that city,
and although I am merely his nephew, I have at times enough of his hot disposition to feel
as he felt after similar strokes of fate. Having been drawn into his irregular orbit, passing
through the same phases as he passed through, I must expect that nothing will ever happen to
me in the same way as it would happen to others, himself excepted. Thus the similarity of our
adventures--the drum-major in my case taking the place of my uncle's Jean Bonaffé,--ought not
to have surprised me; it should have been foreseen like a philosophical contingency previously
inscribed in the book of destiny. And, indeed, to tell the truth, I should have considered
the slightest departure from the precise law of fate illogical.

However, I was either in a bad disposition of mind or I had been too suddenly and speedily
awakened from the presumptuous quietude into which I had sunk, for I will admit to you that
on thinking over my case, I experienced at the moment a singular feeling of astonishment.

Horns are like teeth, a witty woman once said: they hurt while they are coming, but afterwards
one manages to put up with them!

True as this remark of an experienced person may be, yet having my own ideas as to these vain
appendages which I could not prevent from sprouting; and being, moreover, sufficiently provided
with proofs which I had duly weighed, my first idea was to dart head first athwart this intrigue
in which my dishonour was a certainty. Leaving Mohammed upon the divan where he had stranded,
I hastened by way of the stairs to the guilty creature's room.

I softly opened the closed door, stepped gently over the carpet, and approached her from behind
in time to catch her just as she had one hand on her heart and the other on her lips.

She gave a little shriek, while the drum-major, on seeing me appear so suddenly, made a gesture
of despair. Then he drew back with such haste that his plume caught against the wall above
the window, with the result that his bearskin was knocked off, and turning a sommersault fell
into the courtyard.

Zouhra thereupon gave another shriek.

All this had occurred with the rapidity of a flash of lightning. My rival, closing his window,
had disappeared like a jack-in-the-box.

We were alone.

"Ah! ha!" I then said to the unworthy creature, "so this is your conduct----"

She answered nothing; she still hoped, no doubt, that she would be able to deny the facts,
with the brazen assurance of the woman who, although surprised in the act, puts on a grand
air, and waxes wrathful as at an insult.

"Who was that man up there," I resumed, "with whom you were corresponding?"

"A man!" she finally answered with her strong Turkish accent which I will spare you. "I don't
know what you mean--I don't know any men--I have never seen any!"

"But he was at that window--there."

"Well, what does that prove?" she retorted. "Does that concern me? Can I prevent people from
coming to their windows?"

"No, but when they are there you might prevent yourself from making signs to them; and especially
from returning the kisses they send to you."

"Signs, I? I made signs!" she exclaimed. "Ah! that is really too bad! Who do you take me for then?"

"Why, I surprised you, and I stayed your hand when you had your fingers raised to your lips."

"Well, can't I put my fingers to my lips now? What, am I not to have the right to make a gesture,
without accounting for it, without being insulted? Did any one ever see a woman treated in
such an odious fashion? Well, tie me up then!"

You are acquainted with women's tactics, my dear Louis: they are always the same in such cases.
I put a stop to it all after letting her deny the facts.

"Come, come," I said to her. "This is not the time for you to play the part of a persecuted
victim. For the last half hour I have been watching you from behind those curtains. I saw everything--with
my opera-glass," I added, showing her the glass in proof of my assertion.

Struck by this victorious demonstration she stood there in consternation. For a moment I enjoyed
the effect I had produced and then continued:

"I saw the letter which he showed you, and the one which you have in your pocket--I can still
see a bit of it peeping out."

On hearing this she became very red; and with incredible swiftness drew forth the incriminating
missive, which she tore into a hundred pieces.

"All right," said I. "It would seem then that you had written something very compromising to
that soldier, whom you have never met and whom you don't know."

"It was a letter for the modiste," she replied with assumed indignation.

"Yes, and you no doubt wanted him to deliver it," I retorted in an ironical strain.

This last bitter dart went home and set her beside herself. She assumed a superb attitude.

"I shall not give you any explanation," she said. "Believe whatever you please. Do whatever
you choose. As for myself, I know what I have to do now. Since I am spied upon and treated
in this fashion I have had enough of leading such a life--I prefer to put an end to it at once!"

"And how do you purpose putting an end to it?" I resumed. "It will perhaps be necessary to
consult me a little bit on that subject."

"But you are neither my husband nor my brother, my dear fellow," she exclaimed in the most
airy way imaginable, "and I don't suppose that you are going to talk to me any more of those
stupid Turkish rights. We are in Paris and I know that I am free!"

"Well, where will your freedom take you?"

"Oh! don't worry yourself about me--I should not have any trouble to secure a husband. Do you
imagine, my dear fellow, that I should be embarrassed to find a position?"

This characteristic word showed me that she was far more completely initiated than I had suspected.

"And you expect," I retorted, "to obtain this position from that fine nobleman, eh?"

These disdainful words exasperated her; she lost all self-restraint and burnt her ships.

"That fine nobleman is a duke!" she exclaimed vehemently. "I will not allow you to insult him.
And since you dare to threaten me, I will tell you that I love him and that he adores me, and
that he offers to marry me and promises me every bliss--"

In spite of my misfortune I could not help laughing at this fiery indignant declaration to
which Zouhra's Turkish accent imparted an irresistibly comic effect. My gaiety brought her
anger to a climax.

Frenzied, decided upon everything, she darted to a chiffonier, drew out an illuminated card,
upon which two doves were pecking one another, and threw it at me with a queenly air, exclaiming:

"There, my dear fellow you will see if I still have any need of you!"

I picked up the card and read what was written upon it:

    LEDUC (D'ARPAJON),

    Drum-Major of the 79th Regt. of the Line.

    To the divine ZOUHRA--Everlasting Love!

It would be useless for me to describe to you the end of the scene.

When I had laughed enough, I allowed myself the delightful pleasure of undeceiving my faithless
houri by explaining to her her unfortunate mistake as to the rank of her conqueror, whom she
had mentally endowed with a fortune in keeping with the height of his plume.[A] I destroyed
her dream of every bliss by reducing it to so much bliss as was procurable with a full pay
of a franc and a half per diem.

     [Footnote A: Zouhra with her imperfect knowledge of French had
     concluded that Leduc (D'Arpajon) meant "the Duke of
     Arpajon"--whereas, in reality, Leduc, a single word, was the
     drum-major's name; D'Arpajon implying that he came from, or
     belonged to, the little market town of Arpajon, not far from
     Paris.--Trans.]

As I made these crushing revelations you might have seen her gradually sinking and collapsing,
with her pretty purple lips just parted, and her gazelle's eyes staring with frightened astonishment.
She was the picture of consternation.

All at once she darted towards me and abruptly caught me in her arms.

"Ah! it is you that I love!--you that I love!" she exclaimed in a pathetic tone amid her transports.

I had some difficulty in releasing myself from her passionate embrace; still I eventually succeeded
in doing so, but only to confront a fresh crisis of despair, whereupon I immediately confided
Zouhra to the care of her maids.

Then, without any further explanations, which would have been superfluous, I withdrew.

Of course I am perfectly aware that you will try to derive from this mishap some argument intended
to triumph over my discomfiture.

I would have you remark, however, that you have no right to seize upon a general fact--for
infidelity is inherent in woman's nature--and draw deductions respecting my particular case.
All that you can reasonably conclude is that the man who has four wives is bound to be deceived
four times as often as the man who has but one wife.

That is certainly a weighty argument, I confess.

However all that may be, my misfortune having been made evident to me, and Zouhra being banished
from my heart, it was necessary that I should come to a decision with regard to her.

The most simple course was to consult my uncle; his own experience in a similar mishap pointed
him out as the best of advisers.

He listened to me, stroking his beard with the somewhat derisive phlegm of a practical man,
who is not sorry to find that he has some companions in misfortune. It even seemed to me that
I could detect a touch of malicious satisfaction, as if he still resented my conduct as an heir.

When I had finished he quietly remarked:

"What an old stupid you are! You should have let her get married without saying anything! In
that way you would have saved us the expense of sending her back home again."

"Well, unfortunately it's too late now for that, uncle," I answered.

To be brief, as the Turkish law does not allow the desertion or dismissal of a cadine unless
she be provided for, Zouhra is to be exiled to Rhodes. The pasha has established there for
his own use, a kind of Botany Bay, which is a place both of retirement and rustication for
his invalided wives who have lost their freshness with age. The place is an old abbey with
spacious gardens planted with mimosas and orange trees, and was purchased by auction for some
ten thousand francs. The island is delightful, and provisions are to be had there for nothing,
according to what my uncle tells me. Judge for yourself: fowls cost twopence each, and everything
else is to be had at correspondingly low prices. There are already eleven women there, and
it does not cost more than nine thousand francs a year to keep them all on a proper footing,
including the board and wages of their servants.

Find me among our own boasted institutions any one to be compared with that of my uncle--an
institution established to provide for similar contingencies, and the arrangements of which
are equally good.

CHAPTER XV.

For the last three days that unworthy girl Zouhra has been on her way to Rhodes.

Well, what does that matter? I admit that I have only three wives left, that's all. And what
of that? Is it fitting that you, my dearest friend, should try to make me feel ashamed of it?

While exercising your facetiousness, it seems to me that you especially level your irony at
certain other worries necessarily occasioned by the position of Kondjé-Gul and what you call
the wooing of the "fierce Kiusko." Ye Gods! so I have a rival. Really, you make me laugh!

I fancy, however, that all this will inevitably end in a duel between us, which indeed, as
time goes on, seems to me quite unavoidable.

One evening when I arrived rather late at Téral House by reason of one of those tedious dinners
with which Anna Campbell's leaves-out were celebrated, I found Kondjé-Gul quite downcast, and
her eyes red with crying. I had left her a few hours before in the best of spirits, and delighted
about a pretty little pony which I had given her in the morning, and which we had been trying.
Surprised and alarmed at such a sudden grief as she evinced, and which had caused her to shed
tears, I anxiously questioned her about it.

Directly I began speaking to her I saw that she wanted to conceal from me the cause of her
affliction: but I pressed her.

"No, it's nothing," she said, "only a story which mamma told me."

But when she tried to smile, a sob broke out from her lips, and, bursting into tears, she threw
her arm round my neck, nestling her head on my bosom.

"Good heavens! what's the matter, dear?" I exclaimed, quite alarmed. "Tell me all about it,
I entreat you. What has happened? And why are you crying like this?"

She could not answer me. Her bosom heaved, and she seized my hand and covered it with kisses,
as if in order to demonstrate her love for me in the midst of her distress.

I succeeded in calming her; and then, making her sit down by my side, with her hands in mine,
I pressed her to confess her troubles to me. Her hesitation increased my alarm: she turned
her eyes away from me, and I could see that she feared to reply to me. At last, quite frantic
with anxiety, I resorted to my marital authority.

Then, with childlike submission, she related to me the following strange story, which filled
me with astonishment.

After luncheon her mother had joined her in the drawing-room, when in the course of a general
conversation she began to speak about their native country and their family, and about the
pleasure it would be for them to revisit them after so long an absence. Kondjé-Gul let her
go on in this strain, thinking that she was just indulging in one of those dreams of a far-off
future which the imagination is fond of cherishing, however impossible their realisation may
be. But soon she was very much surprised by noticing that her mother was discussing this scheme
as one which might be carried out at an early date. She then questioned her about it. At last,
after a lot of fencing, Madame Murrah informed her that she had learnt a marriage was arranged
between me and Anna Campbell, who had been betrothed to me for a long while past; also that
this marriage would take place in six months' time, and that I should have to go away with
my wife the day after the wedding.

The end of all these arrangements would be the abandonment of Kondjé-Gul.

I was dismayed by this unexpected revelation. The plan of my marriage with Anna had remained
a family secret, known only to my uncle, to herself, to my aunt, and to me. How had it got
to Madame Murrah's ears? I was unable to conceal my uneasiness.

"But this marriage is true then?" continued my poor Kondjé with an anxious look in my face.

"Nothing is true but our love!" I replied, distressed by her fears; "nothing is true but this,
that I mean to love you always, and always to live with you as I do now."

"But this marriage?" she again repeated.

It was impossible for me to escape any longer from the necessity of making a confession which
I had intended to have prepared her for later on.

"Listen, my darling," I said, taking her by the hands, "and above all things trust me as you
listen to me! I love you, I love no one but you; you are my wife, my happiness, my life. Do
you believe me?"

"Yes, dear, I believe you. But what about her?" she added in a tremble. "What about Anna Campbell?
Are you going to marry her?"

"Come," I said, wishing to begin by soothing her fears; "if, as so often happens in your own
country, I were obliged, if only in order to assure our own happiness, to make another marriage,
would not you understand that this was only a sacrifice which I owed to my uncle if he required
it of me--a family arrangement, in fact, which could not separate us from each other? What
have you to fear so long as I only love you? Did you trouble yourself about Hadidjé or Zouhra?"

"Oh, but they were not Christians! Anna Campbell would be your real wife; and your religion
and laws would enjoin you to love her."

"No," I exclaimed, "neither my religion nor my laws could change my heart or undo my love for
you. It is my duty to protect your life and make it a happy one; for are not you also my wife?
Why should you alarm yourself about an obligation of mine which, if we lived in your country,
would not disturb your confidence in me? Anna Campbell is not really in love with me: we are
only like two friends, prepared to unite with each other in a conventional union, such as you
may see many a couple around us enter upon--an association of fortunes, in which the only personal
sentiments demanded are reciprocal esteem. My dear girl, what is there to be jealous of? Don't
you know that you will always be everything to me?"

Poor Kondjé-Gul listened to these somewhat strange projects without the least idea of opposing
them. Still under the yoke of her native ideas, those Oriental prejudices in which she had
been brought up were too deeply grafted in her mind to permit of her being rapidly converted
by acquaintance with our sentiments and usages--very illogical as they often appeared to her
mind--to a different view of woman's destiny. According to her laws and her religion, I was
her master. She could never have entertained the possibility of her refusing to submit to my
will; but I could see by the tears in her eyes that this very touching submission and resignation
on her part was simply due to her devoted self-control, and that she suffered cruelly by it.

"Come, why do you keep on crying?" I continued, drawing her into my arms. "Do you doubt my
love, dear?"

"Oh, no!" she replied quickly. "How could I mistrust you?"

"Well, then, away with those tears!"

"Yes," she said, giving me a kiss, "you are right, dear: I am very silly! What can you expect
of me? I am still half a barbarian, and am rather bewildered with all I have learnt from you.
There are still some things in my nature which I can't understand. Why it is that I feel more
jealous of Anna Campbell than I was of Hadidjé, of Nazli, or of Zouhra, I can't tell you; but
I am afraid--she is a Christian, and perhaps you will love her better than me. I feel that
the laws and customs of your country will recover their hold over you and will separate us.
That odious law which you once told me of, which would enfranchise me, so you said, and make
me my own mistress if I desired to leave you, often comes back to my mind like a bad dream.
It seems to me that this imaginary liberty, which I don't want at any price, would become a
reality if you get married."

I reassured her on this point. There is a much more persuasive eloquence in the heart than
in the vain deductions of logic. During this extraordinary scene, in which my poor Kondjé-Gul's
mind was alarmed by the conflict going on between her own beliefs and what she knew of our
society, I was quite sincere in my illusions concerning the moral compromise which, I fancied,
was imposed upon me as an absolute duty. Singular as it may all appear to you, I had already
been subjected too long to the influence of the harem not to have become gradually permeated
by the Oriental ideas. The tie which bound me to Kondjé-Gul had acquired a kind of sacred and
legitimate character in my eyes.

However this may have been, her revelation disclosed an impending danger. It was clear to me
that the news of the marriage arranged between Anna Campbell and myself could only have reached
Madame Murrah through Kiusko. His relationship with my aunt had made him a member of our family,
and he had been acquainted with our projects. I could easily understand that his jealous instincts
had penetrated one side of the secret between Kondjé and myself. He had at least guessed that
she loved me, and that I was an obstacle to the attainment of his desires. He was following
up his object. He wished to destroy Kondjé-Gul's hopes in advance, by showing her that I was
engaged to marry another.

With my present certitude of his mean devices, I began to wonder whether everything had been
already let out through slips of the tongue made by Madame Murrah, in the course of those interviews
which he had obtained with her either by chance or by appointment. For several days past I
fancied I had remarked in him an increased reserve of manner. It was possible that, being convinced
now of the futility of his hopes, his only object henceforth was to revenge himself on his
rival by at least disturbing his feeling of security.

Yes! you are quite right: I love her! Why should you imagine I would wish to deny it, or dissemble
it as a weakness? Did I ever tell you that the consequence of indulgence in the pleasures of
harem loves would be to drown the heart, the soul, and the aspirations towards the ideal for
the sole advantage of the senses? Where you seem to see the defeat of one vanquished, I find
the triumph of my happiness and the enchantment of a dream which I am realizing during my waking
hours. Compare with this secret and charming bond of union which attaches me to Kondjé-Gul,
the prosaic and vulgar character of those common intrigues which one cynically permits the
whole world to observe, or of those illicit connections which the hypocritical remnant of virtue
with us constrains us to conceal, like crimes, in the darkness. Deceptive frenzies they are,
the enjoyment of which always involves of necessity the degradation of the woman and the contempt
of the lover! You may preach and dogmatise as much as you like in your endeavours to uphold
the superiority of our habits over those of the East, which you declare to be barbarous; you
will never succeed in doing anything more than entangling yourself in your own paradox.

The fact is that in the refined epoch, so-called, in which we live, every description of non-legitimized
union in love becomes a libertinage, and the woman who abandons herself to it becomes a profane
idol. Whether she be a duchess, or a foolish maid, you may write verses over her fall, but
you cannot forget it. The worm is in the fruit. My love for Kondjé-Gul knows no such shame,
and needs no guilty excuses. Proud of her slavish submission, she can love me without derogating
in the least from her own self-respect. In Kondjé's eyes, her tender embraces are legitimate,
her glory is the conquest of my heart. I am her master, and she abandons herself to me without
transgressing any duty. Being a daughter of Asia, she fulfils her destiny according to the
moral usages and the beliefs of her native land: to these she remains faithful in loving me:
her religion has no different rule, her virtue no different law.

That is why I love her, and why my heart is possessed by such a frank and open loyalty towards
her. You speak to me about the future, and ask me what will happen when the time comes for
my marriage to Anna Campbell? Well, the future is still in the distance, my dear fellow; when
it comes upon me we will see what I will do! Meanwhile I love and content myself with loving!

Will that satisfy you? Oh yes, I confess my errors, I abjure my pagan vanities, and my sultanic
principles. I give up Mahomet! I have found my Damascus road. True love has manifested itself
to me in all its glory, shining through the clouds; it has inspired me with its grace, and
my false idols lie prostrate in the dust----Would you like me to make you a present of my harem?
If this offer suits you, send me a line, and I will forward what remains of it to you with
all despatch: you shall then give it my news, for it is six weeks now since I have seen my
two sultanas. Only make haste--in eight days' time they are to return to Constantinople. The
blessings of civilization are decidedly banes to these little animals. Liberty in Paris would
soon ruin them. I have provided for them, and am sending them away.

I mention all this to show you in what happiness I bask. Reassured by my affection, and confident
in the future, my Kondjé-Gul has recovered that sweet serenity which makes our love such a
delicious dream. As the fierce Kiusko is now unmasked, we laugh at his foolish plots as you
may well imagine!

CHAPTER XVI.

My aunt Gretchen van Cloth is in Paris!

Well, why do you assume your facetious tone on reading that? I know you and can guess your
thoughts.

After all, Barbassou is a pasha, is it still necessary to remind you of that?

Well, the other day my uncle informed me that he would take me home to dine with him. I repaired
to the boulevard at the appointed hour and we started in his brougham for Passy. On the way
he told me what it was necessary I should know. We reached a rather nice looking house in the
Rue Raynouard, from which you can see the boats floating down the Seine. There is a railing
and a little garden in front. On hearing our footsteps, a young lady whom I at once recognised,
from the recollections of my childhood, hurried to the door.

"Kiss your aunt," my uncle said to me: and I did as I was told.

We then entered a modest little drawing-room, the commonplace aspect of which, reminding one
of furnished apartments, was improved by its general neatness and by a few bunches of flowers
displayed in sundry odd vases. Three youngsters, the smallest of whom was between three and
four years old, were eating bread and butter there. My uncle saluted each of them with a hurried
kiss, and then they ran off to their nurse.

My aunt Gretchen is just reaching her thirty-fourth birthday. She confesses to her age. If
she did not come from Amsterdam she ought to have been born there. She has blossomed like a
flower among the tulips, and she looks like a Rubens, in that painter's more sober style, as
in the portrait of the Friesland woman, with the prim pink and white flesh of the healthful
natures of the North. You realise that good blood flows quietly and temperately beneath the
pleasantly plump charms of this worthy Dutchwoman, who claims only her due, but is desirous
of getting it. And she does get it. She has luxuriant light chestnut hair, and a very attractive
face with the smiling, placid, and even somewhat simple expression of a good housewife, who
is as expert in bringing up her children as in making pastry and pineapple jam. Being of a
gay and amiable disposition, she greeted her husband with the ordinary, hearty affection of
a woman who has never been a widow. After bringing him his foxskin cap she established him
in a comfortable arm-chair, and then mixed his absinthe for him. I guessed that the captain
was returning to old habits, with the dignified composure which he displays in everything.

They began to talk in Dutch, and as I looked at them without understanding it, my uncle said to me:

"Your aunt tells me that her kitchen range is too small to make any good soufflés, and it worries
her on your account."

"Oh! my aunt is too kind to disturb herself about such a trifling matter," I replied; "the
pleasure I feel in seeing her again amply compensates me for this slight mishap."

"Well, instead of the soufflés you shall have some wafelen and some poffertjes!" quickly rejoined
my aunt with her kindly smile.

I remarked that she spoke French much better than formerly. However, probably on account of
her voyages with the captain, who recruited his crews at Toulon, her Dutch accent has now become
a Provençal one.

The dinner was delightful, substantial and plentiful, like the charms of my aunt, who was victorious
along the whole line, and notably with the spicy sauce of a gebakken schol, which was excellently
baked.

The conversation was simple and of a free and easy character, my uncle talking with all the
freedom of a man who has a quiet conscience. He was as much at his ease in his Dutch household
as any good citizen could be, and I perceived that my aunt knew absolutely nothing about him,
unless it were the important position that he occupied in the spice trade. She gave him some
news about the great doings of the Van Hutten firm of Rotterdam and Antwerp, in which he seemed
to take a particular interest. It seems, too, that Peter van Schloss, junior, is married to
a young lady of Dordrecht, who presented him with twins after six months of matrimony, a circumstance
which my uncle found very natural. Old Joshua Schlittermans, having been utterly ruined by
the failure of Gannton Brothers of New York, has now taken to drink.

When the coffee was served (Dirkie had brought it from Amsterdam, purchasing it on the Damplaatz,
at the corner of Kalver Straat), my aunt filled a long porcelain pipe which my uncle took from
her hands and lighted, puffing out clouds of smoke, with the serene gravity of some worthy
burgomaster at home. We drank some schiedam and two sorts of dry curaçoa. While my aunt sat
knitting at the table she questioned me as to my occupations, asking me if I were working in
my uncle's establishment; and upon my replying affirmatively to her, she gave me some very
good advice, telling me to be very industrious so that I might take my uncle's place later on.

At half-past ten we rose from table and went into the drawing-room. Dirkie got everything ready
for a game of dominoes, and they began to play in the Dutch fashion. My uncle kept the markers,
and noted the points made: he himself speedily scored between three and four hundred, and then,
feeling satisfied with his success, he said:

"Well, give us a little music!"

My aunt did not require any pressing, but went to the piano in a very good-humoured manner.
She opened the top so that the instrument might give out a louder sound, then passed behind
and arranged everything; and suddenly I heard the splendid introduction of Haydn's seventh
symphony in F major bursting forth, while my aunt turned the handle with rare skill and gracefulness.
(I recognised the superb instrument mentioned in the fourth legacy of the famous will.)

I must admit that if my aunt played the minuet rather quickly, she executed the andante in
a very delicate style, and the scherzo and the finale were both dashed off in a spirited way.
At the last chord, I applauded with sincere enthusiasm.

"She plays very well, doesn't she?" my uncle quietly asked me, in a modest tone. "You, who
are a connoisseur--"

"Oh! she plays perfectly," I rejoined, without stinting my praise.

"And besides she puts expression into it," he resumed. "One can see that she feels what she plays."

My aunt kissed him for this compliment, which he paid her with the gravest assurance.

"Ah! you are still a flatterer!" she said to him.

As may readily be guessed, some of Strauss's waltzes and two or three polkas followed the classical
symphonies, together with the overtures of "Don Giovanni" and "Fra Diavolo." It was really
a perfect concert till midnight. But by that time my aunt's plump arm being somewhat tired
it was necessary to bring the entertainment to a close.

Now, my dear fellow, I am not one of those who give way to the stupid prejudices of our foolish
traditions; still less am I one of those who seek to evade frivolous objections, or fight shy
of plain and open discussion. I have myself officially abandoned polygamy, that is true--but
you are meditating another attack upon my uncle--I see it and I feel it--and from the depths
of your troglodytic intellect you intend to drag out some commonplace hackneyed argument accompanied
by frivolous sarcasms, and directed, not at the point in question, but all round it. As you
are even incapable of understanding your own so-called virtue in its true and primitive sense,
you will no doubt repeat your usual stupid remarks, denouncing my uncle's conduct as scandalous.

Let us go straight to the moral point, without haggling over words. My uncle, who has the advantage
of being a Turk, distributes himself between his two wives, like a worthy husband faithful
to his duty. Do you presume to blame him? In that case what have you to say to our friends
A. B. C. D. E. F. (I spare you the rest of the alphabet, and it is understood that the reader
and present company are excepted), our friends, I say, who deceive their wives for the sake
of hussies who have several protectors, as they are well aware? It is not a question here of
fighting on behalf of the holy shrine of monogamy. With how many faithful, irreproachable husbands
are you acquainted? Those hussies are mistresses, you will say to me! I know it: that is to
say, they are females who belong to everybody. The question is settled: my uncle is a virtuous
man by the side of our friends. As he is incapable of such vulgar and promiscuous intrigues
he has a supplementary household, that is all! Like the prudent traveller who is acquainted
with the length of the journey he judiciously prepares relays.

Compare that family gathering at my aunt Van Cloth's with those unhealthy stolen pleasures
of debauched husbands who feel ashamed and tremble with the fear of being surprised. My uncle
is a patriarch and takes no part in the licentiousness of our times. So much for this subject.

I have just received a most unforeseen blow, my dear Louis, and even while I write have scarcely
recovered from the alarm of a horrible machination from which we were only saved by a miracle.

I told you about my poor Kondjé-Gul's passing grief on account of her mother's foolish ideas.
Reassured as to the future by my vows and promises, she was too amenable to my influence to
refuse to submit to a trial which I was forced by duty to prepare her for. Proud at the thought
that she was sacrificing her jealousy for me, sacrificing herself for my happiness, her tears
having been dried up by my kisses, I found her the day after this cruel blow to her heart as
expansive and confiding as if no cloud had darkened our sky.

But a very few days after I was quite surprised to observe a sort of melancholy resignation
about her. I attributed this trouble to some of the childish worries which her mother's temper
occasionally gave her. However, after several days had passed like this, I came to the conclusion
that the cause of her sadness must be something more than a transitory one, and that she was
harassed by some new grief which even my presence was not sufficient to dissipate. By her replies
to me, which seemed to be pervaded by more than usual tenderness, I judged that--in her fear
of alarming me, no doubt,--she wished to conceal from me the real cause of her anxiety.

One evening at one of our little parties at the Montagues, which had begun as a concert, but
was converted by us, in our gay and sociable mood, into a dance, Maud had trotted me off to
make up a quadrille. Kondjé-Gul, who, as you know, never dances, had withdrawn into the boudoir
adjoining the drawing-room, where she was looking through the albums. I suspected nothing,
and was engaged in a frivolous conversation with Maud, when from where I stood, through the
glass partition which separated the two rooms, I noticed Kiusko come and sit down by her side.
It was natural enough that, seeing her alone, he considered himself bound not to leave her
so, for that might have looked like a want of politeness on his part. It seemed to me, moreover,
from their faces, that their conversation was upon indifferent topics, and was being conducted
in that tone of ordinary friendliness which was usual between them.

He was turning over the pages of an album as he talked to her. I had no reason to pay much
attention to this tête-à-tête, and was not even intending to follow it, but once, near the
end of the quadrille, my eyes being again turned by chance in Kondjé-Gul's direction, I saw
her rise up all of a sudden, as if something that Daniel had said had excited her suddenly.
I thought I saw her blush, raising her head proudly and answering him in an offended tone.

The dance being now over, I left Maud, and, agitated by an anxious kind of feeling, walked
up to the boudoir. They were standing up, and Kiusko's back being turned to the door, he did
not see me enter. Kondjé-Gul saw me and said:

"André, come and give me your arm!"

At this unusually bold request, Daniel could not repress a gesture of astonishment, and cast
a bewildered glance at me. I advanced, and she seized my arm with a convulsive movement, and
addressed herself to my rival:

"This is the second time, sir, that you have declared your love to me. Let me tell you why
I decline it: I am the slave of Monsieur André de Peyrade, and I love him!"

If a thunderbolt had fallen at Daniel's feet, it could not have startled him more than this.
He turned so pale that I thought he was going to faint. He gazed at both of us with a desperate
and ferocious look, as if some terrible thought was revolving in his mind. His features were
contracted into such a savage expression that I instinctively placed myself between him and
Kondjé-Gul. But, all at once, frightened no doubt at his own passion, he gave one glance of
despair and rage, and fled from the room. Kondjé-Gul was all of a tremble.

"What has happened, then?" I asked her.

"I will tell you all about it," she answered, in a voice still quivering with emotion. "I am
going home with my mother. Come after us as soon as we are off."

CHAPTER XVII.

Half an hour later I joined Kondjé-Gul again at her house. She had sent Fanny out of the room,
and was waiting for me. When she saw me, she threw her arm round my neck, and the long pent-up
tears seemed to start from her eyes like a fountain.

"Good heavens!" I exclaimed, "what is it, then?"

And taking her on my knees like a child, I held her in my arms; but she soon recovered her energy.

"Listen, dear," she said in a firm voice, "you must forgive me for what I have just done: you
must forgive me for having concealed my thoughts and my troubles from you, even at the risk
of distressing you."

"I forgive you, everything," I answered immediately, "go on, tell me quickly."

"Well, then! For a whole week I have been deceiving you," she continued, "by telling you that
I had no troubles, and that I did not know the cause of that sadness which I could not conceal
from you. I was afraid of making you angry with my mother, by confessing to you that it was
she who was tormenting me."

"Your mother!" I exclaimed: "and what had she to say to you, then?"

"You shall hear all," she said, with animation, "for I must justify myself for having kept
a secret from you. I daresay you remember," she continued, "that a fortnight ago she spoke
to me about your marriage, telling me that you were going to leave me."

"Yes, yes, I understand," I said. "What then?"

"My mother had made me promise to keep this revelation a secret, because it was necessary,
so she said, that Count Kiusko should not suspect that we loved each other. She said that he
had expressly attributed my refusal to become his wife to some hope which I doubtless entertained
of marrying you."

"Well, go on; tell me what has occurred since."

"You know the state of trouble you found me in that night. I could not hold back my tears,
and you commanded me to tell you all. At last you reassured me with so much warmth of feeling,
that after that I did not believe anyone but you. Quite happy at the thought of sacrificing
myself to your will, and to your peace of mind, I left off thinking about my alarms, and regretted
them as an insult to our love; I repeated to my mother all your kind promises, and thought
that I had set her mind at rest. Imagine my astonishment at hearing her, a few days afterwards,
return to the subject: she had seen the count again, who had declared that your uncle would
disinherit you if you did not carry out his wishes."

"And did you believe all that?"

"No," she replied promptly, "for you had not told me so! But then my mother, seeing that I
would only believe you, changed her tactics: she spoke about Count Kiusko, his wealth, and
his love for me."

"She did that, did she?"

"Oh, forgive her!" she continued; "she gets anxious both on my account and her own. She is
alarmed about the future, and fancies she sees me deserted by you! Well, it was simply a cruel
struggle for me, in which my heart could not betray you. I suffered through it, and that's
all! But three days ago, I don't know what can have passed during your aunt's party, my mother,
on our way home, said to me in a decided manner that she had resolved 'to live no longer among
the infidels,' and intended 'to return to the land of the Faithful, in order to expiate the
great wrong she had committed by living here.'

"I was dismayed at this resolution of hers. As she based it upon our faith, I could not oppose
her, for that would have been a sacrilege, but I could at least invoke her affection for me,
and entreat her not to leave. Then, while I was on my knees before her, and was kissing her
and crying, she startled me by saying: 'You shall not leave me; for, when I go, I shall take
you away with me'!"

"Why, she must be crazy!" I exclaimed.

"Well, dear," added Kondjé-Gul, "you can easily understand what a thunderbolt this was to me!
I felt it so painfully that I nearly swooned away. My mother was alarmed and called for Fanny.
The next day, I attempted to prevail upon her to change her mind, declaring that it would kill
me to be separated from you. I thought I had mollified her, for she kissed me and said that
all she cared about was my happiness. But this evening, while we were in the carriage on our
way to Suzannah's, she spoke again to me about Count Kiusko. I have a presentiment that the
greatest enemy to our love and happiness is that man; and that he it is who has been influencing
my mother, hoping, no doubt, that when separated from you I should no longer be able to resist
her wishes.

"Well, you know the rest, I had gone into the boudoir while you were dancing, when the count
came and sat down by my side.--'Is it true that you are going away?' he said to me, after a
minute or so. 'Who could make you believe such a thing?' I replied coldly. 'Why, something
your mother told me which seemed to imply it.' I remained silent--he did not venture to follow
up the subject, and said nothing more for a few minutes. I kept my eyes on a book which I was
looking through, for I felt that his eyes were fixed upon me. 'Perhaps you will regret André
a little,' he continued, 'but what can you do? He is not free,--and besides, do you suppose
he would have loved you?'

"At this question, the cruel irony of which wounded me to the quick, I was possessed by some
mad impulse, I raised my head and replied to him in such a scornful tone that he rose up in
confusion. Just then you came in. I wished to overwhelm him with my contempt so as to destroy
all further hopes he might cherish. You know what I said--"

"And quite right, too! For it was necessary to put a stop to his nonsense. I will attend to it."

"But what if my mother wants to separate us?"

"Your mother, indeed!" I exclaimed; "your mother who sold you, abandoned you to the life of
a slave, do you think she can come and claim the rights which she has thrown away?"

"Can you defend me against her, then?"

"Yes, dear, I will defend you," I exclaimed in a passion, "and now set your mind at ease. There
is a miserable plot at the bottom of all this, which I intend demolishing. When I leave you
I am going to Count Kiusko, and I assure you that he sha'n't trouble you any more: after that
I shall see your mother."

"Good heavens!" said Kondjé-Gul, "are you going to fight him?"

"No, no," I answered with a laugh, in order to remove her fears; "but you must understand that
it is necessary for me to have an explanation with him."

In the morning I returned home and arranged all my affairs ready for any eventuality; then
when all was in order I went after two of my friends, and asked them to hold themselves ready
to act as my seconds in an affair which I might be compelled by grave circumstances to settle
that very day. Having obtained their promise to do so, I proceeded to Kiusko's in the Rue de
l'Elysée.

When I arrived at his house, I saw from the windows being open that he was up. A footman, who
knew me, was standing under the peristyle. He told me that he did not think his master would
see anyone then. I gave him my card and instructed him to send it up at once to the count.
In a minute or two after he returned and asked me to come up to his master's private room:
he showed me into a little smoking-room adjoining the bedroom, to which the count's intimate
friends only are admitted. I had hardly entered it when Daniel appeared; he was dressed in
a Moldavian costume which he uses as a dressing-gown.

"Hullo, here's our dear friend André!" he said when he saw me, in such an indifferent tone
that I could detect in it the intentional affectation of a calmness to which his pale countenance
gave the lie.

Still he did not hold out his hand to me, nor did I proffer mine; he sat down, indicating to
me an arm-chair on the other side of the fire-place.

"What good fortune has brought you here so early this morning?" he continued, taking a few
puffs at his cigar.

"Why, I should have thought you expected to see me," I replied, looking him straight in the face.

He returned my look with a smile.

"I expected you, without expecting you, as they say."

By the peculiar tone in which he uttered these words, I could see that he was determined to
make me take the initiative in the matter upon which I had come.

"Very well!" I said, wishing to show him that I guessed his mind. "I will explain myself."

"I am all attention, my dear fellow," he answered.

"I have come to speak to you," I continued drily, "about Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul Murrah, and
about what passed yesterday between her and you."

"Ah, yes! I understand: you are referring to the somewhat severe lecture which I drew upon
myself, and to the confidential communication she made me."

"Precisely so," I added; "you could not sum up the two points better than you have done: a
lecture, and a confidence. Now as one outcome of the second point is that I am responsible
for all Mademoiselle Murrah's acts, I have come to place myself at your command respecting
the lecture she thought fit to give you."

"What nonsense, my dear fellow!" he exclaimed, puffing a cloud of smoke into the air. "After
all I only had what I deserved, for I can only blame my own presumption. Besides the very anger
of such a charming young lady is a favour to the man who incurs it, so that my only regret
is that I offended her. I should therefore really laugh at myself to think that I could hold
you responsible for this little incident: nay, I will go so far as to say that, strictly speaking,
I should owe you an apology for what you might be justified in complaining of as an act of
disloyalty between friends, but for the fact that I can plead as my excuse the complete ignorance
in which you left me of certain mysterious relations. You must know very well that a simple
word from you, my relative, my friend, would have made me stop short on the brink of the precipice."

I appreciated the reproachful irony concealed in this last sentence; but I had gone too far
to trouble myself about remorses of conscience regarding him.

"So then," I replied, "you have nothing to say, no satisfaction to demand of me in respect
to this lecture?"

"None whatever, my dear fellow!" he answered, in the same easy tone which he had preserved
all along. "And I may add that there could be nothing more ridiculous than a quarrel between
two friends like you and me upon such a matter!"

"Let's think no more about it then!" I continued, imitating his composure. "Since you take
it so good-naturedly, I sha'n't press it. But, having settled this first point, it remains
now for us to discuss what you have termed the confidence."

At this he could not repress a slight gesture. His dark eye flashed up, but for a moment only:
he was soon quite calm again.

"Ah, yes!" he said carelessly; "now we've come to the second point."

"This is the point of importance for me," I added; "and I am going to ask you, on my side,
what you propose to do after this revelation?"

"I must compliment you, my dear fellow, for upon my word it's a most wonderful romance. Do
you really mean to say that this beautiful young lady whom we have all been admiring from a
distance, fascinated by her charms, and who like a young queen has been starring it in the
most aristocratic drawing-rooms of your society, exciting enthusiastic praise wherever she
goes,--that she is your slave?--You must admit that no mortal man could help envying you!"

"Do your compliments," I continued, "imply an engagement, on your part, to abandon importunities,
which you now recognise to be useless?"

"Oh, indeed!" he exclaimed, with a laugh; "so you're going to ask me now to make my confession?"

Exasperated by this imperturbable composure of his, which I could not break down, I again looked
him straight in the face, and asked--

"Do you mean to say you refuse to understand me?"

"No, my good sir!" he answered, resuming his peculiar smile, "I understand you perfectly well;
you want to pick a quarrel with me, or to force me to demand satisfaction from you for a matter
to which I do not attach as much importance as you do. Between ourselves, a duel would be an
act of folly."

"Do you understand, at any rate," I retorted, "that I forbid your ever presenting yourself
before Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul Murrah again?"

"Fie! my dear fellow! What do you take me for? After such an astonishing confession on her
part, I should prove myself deficient in the most ordinary discretion, if I did not henceforth
spare her my presence; so you may set your mind at ease on that point."

"Do you also imply by this evasive answer that you will abandon certain plots with her mother,
which I might describe in terms that would not please you?"

"Corbleu! I should be too heavily handicapped in such a game, you must admit. Nor do I think
that the good lady would be of much service to me, from what I know of her. Moreover," he added,
"you have made me your confidences, as a friend, and, late though they arrive, I shall feel
bound by them henceforth, if only on the ground of the mutual consideration, which, in grave
circumstances, relations owe to each other."

The idea, then, occurred to me of provoking him in another way; but I clearly realised that,
as he was playing such a perfidious part, it would be dangerous for me to commit this imprudence.

"Come, my dear Daniel," I said, as I rose from my chair, "at any rate, I can see that you have
a very good-natured disposition."

"Of course I have," he replied; "and yet there are people who accuse me of evil designs."

The most formidable perils are those which you feel darkly conscious of, without being able
to discern either the enemy or the snare. This interview with Kiusko left almost an impression
of terror on my mind. Knowing him to be as brave as I did, I felt convinced that his insensibility
to my insults could only be due to the calculated calm of an implacable will, which was pursuing
its object, whether of love, of vengeance, or of hatred, with all the energy of desperation.

Notwithstanding the humiliations he had undergone, I made sure that he had by no means given
up the game. He meant to have Kondjé-Gul, even if he had to capture her forcibly, and to carry
her off as his prey. When I considered his sinister calm, which seemed to be abiding its opportunity,
I wondered whether we were not already threatened by some secret machinations on his part.

Still I was not the man to be overcome by childish panics; so I soon got over this transitory
feeling of alarm. I knew that after all we were so unequally matched, that I need not seriously
fear his success. However determined Kiusko might be not to abandon the cowardly rôle he had
assumed, I felt sure that an open affront at the club would compel him to fight.

Feeling reassured by this consideration, I decided to be guided in my action by the result
of the interview which I was going to have with Kondjé-Gul's mother. It was necessary for me
to commence by putting a stop to the foolish proceedings of this woman, who was perhaps acting
unintentionally as Kiusko's accomplice in schemes the object of which she could not foresee.
It was eleven o'clock, an hour at which I knew I should find her alone, while Kondjé-Gul was
taking her lessons: I went accordingly to Téral House.

When I arrived a carriage was coming in and drawing up under the portico. I saw Madame Murrah
get out of it. She could not avoid showing some annoyance on observing me. Rather surprised
at her taking such an early drive, I asked her to go into the drawing-room. She went there
before me, and, seeing me take an arm-chair, she sat down on the divan in her usual indolent
manner, and waited to hear what I had to say.

The scene which I am now going to relate to you, my dear Louis, was certainly, according to
our ideas, a remarkable one. I tell it you just as it happened; but you must not forget that,
for the Circassian woman, there was nothing in it which was out of conformity with her principles
and the ideas of her race.

"I have come to talk with you," I said, "upon a serious subject, the importance of which perhaps
you do not comprehend; for, without intending it, you are causing Kondjé-Gul a great deal of
trouble."

"How am I causing my daughter trouble?" she answered, as if she had been trying to understand.

"By continually telling her that I am going to leave her in order to get married,--by telling
her that you wish to go away, and have even decided to take her with you. She is of course
alarmed by all these imaginary anxieties."

"If it is so decreed by Allah!" she said quietly, "who shall prevent it?"

I had been expecting denials and subterfuges. This fatalistic utterance, without answering
my reproaches, took me quite aback and made me tremble.

"But," I replied in a severe tone, "Allah could not command you to bring unhappiness to your
daughter."

"As you are going to be married----"

"What matters my marriage?" I answered. "It cannot in any way affect Kondjé-Gul's happiness!
She knows that I love her, and that she will always retain the first place in my affections."

Madame Murrah shook her head for a minute in an undecided manner. The argument which I had
employed was a most simple one.

At last she said: "Your wife will be an infidel; and, according to your laws, she will be entitled
to demand my daughter's dismissal."

Dumb-founded at hearing her raise such objections, when I had fancied that I only needed to
express my commands, I gazed at her in complete astonishment.

"But my wife will never know Kondjé-Gul!" I exclaimed. "She will live in her own home, and
Kondjé-Gul will live here, so that nothing will be changed so far as we are concerned."

Upon this reasoning of mine, which I thought would seem decisive to her, the Circassian reflected
for a moment as if embarrassed as to how she should answer me. But suddenly, just when I thought
she was convinced, she said:

"All that you have said would be very true, if we were in Turkey; but you know better than
I do that in your country, your religion does not permit you to have more than one wife."

"But," I exclaimed, more astounded than ever at her language, "do you suppose, then, that Kondjé-Gul
could ever doubt my honour or my fidelity?"

"My daughter is a child, and believes everything," she continued. "But, for my own part, I
have consulted a lawyer, and have been informed that according to your law she has become as
free as a Frenchwoman, and has lost all her rights as cadine which she would have enjoyed in
our country. Moreover I am informed that you can abandon her without her being able to claim
any compensation from you."

I was struck dumb by this bold language and the expression with which it was accompanied. This
was no longer the apathetic Oriental woman whose obedience I thought I commanded like a master.
I had before me another woman whose expression was thoughtful and decided--I understood it all.

"While informing you that your daughter is free," I said, changing my own tone of voice, "this
lawyer no doubt informed you also, that you could marry her to Count Kiusko?"

"Oh, I knew that before!" she replied, smiling.

"So you have been deceiving me these two months past, by leaving me to believe that you had
answered him with a refusal?"

"It was certainly necessary to prevent you from telling him what he now knows.--The silly girl
told him everything yesterday."

"How do you know that?"

I saw her face redden.

"I know it. That's enough!" she replied defiantly.

Feeling certain that Kondjé-Gul had not told her anything of the incident of the day before,
I divined that she had just left Kiusko's, where she had been, no doubt, during our interview.

"May I ask you, then, what you propose to do, now that Count Kiusko knows everything?" I continued,
controlling my anger.

"I shall do what my daughter's happiness impels me to do. You cannot marry her without being
obliged to give up your uncle's fortune. If Count Kiusko should persist in wishing to make
her his wife, knowing all the circumstances that he now does, you can understand that I, as
her mother, could not but approve of a marriage which would assure her such a rich future."

At this I could no longer restrain myself, but exclaimed:

"Oh, indeed! Do you imagine I shall let you dispose of her like that, without defending her?"

"No, of course, I know all this.--And that's the very point upon which I consulted a counsel;
but, according to what he has advised me, I should like to ask what authority you can claim
over my daughter? What rights can you set up against mine?"

"Well, I should like to remind you also that I can ruin your comfortable expectations by killing
Count Kiusko," I said, quite beside myself with rage.

"If so it is written!" she rejoined in a calm voice.

Exasperated by her fatalistic imperturbability, I felt moved by some furious and violent impulse.
I got up from my chair to calm myself. I could see that for two months past I had been duped
by this woman, who had been pursuing with avidity a vision of unexpected fortune, and that
nothing could now divert her from this pursuit. I felt myself caught in their abominable toils.

Sitting motionless on her divan, with her hands folded over her knees, she regarded me in silence.

"Well!" I said, coming close to her again, "I can see that your maternal solicitude is all
a question of money. For what sum will you sell me your daughter a second time, and go back
to live by yourself in the East?"

She hesitated a moment, and then she said:

"I will tell you in a week's time."

By her deceitful looks I judged that she still placed some hope in Kiusko, and that she probably
wished to wait until she could make sure about it, one way or the other--but from motives of
discretion I held my tongue, and took leave of her.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Events had succeeded each other with such strange rapidity since the day before, that I felt
like one walking in a dream. First, Kondjé-Gul's revelations of her mother's duplicity, then
my discussion with Daniel, and now finally this cynical dialogue with the Circassian, in the
course of which she had just confessed her schemes quite openly; all these things had given
such a succession of rude shocks to my spirit, which had been reposing until then in the tranquil
assurance of undisturbed happiness, that I had hardly found time to estimate the extent of
my misfortune. Overwhelmed with distress when I perceived the possibility of losing Kondjé-Gul,
I almost thought I should go mad. I made a desperate struggle against the despair which was
taking possession of my mind. It was necessary for me to carry on the contest in order to defend
my very soul and life, yet I felt my soul slipping out of control. Like a mystic fascinated
by his vision, I might have allowed myself to be deluded by a vain mirage of security, for
I had never imagined that my rights could be disputed. I had been living in the peaceful but
foolish confidence that I could obtain redress, when necessary, by the sword, for my rival's
presumption.

And now I had woke up in consternation at finding myself caught in this stupid trap which I
had permitted them to set in my path. Kondjé-Gul's mother had become Kiusko's accomplice. How
was I to defeat this conspiracy between two minds animated by consuming passions, resolute
and pitiless, who were determined not to be deterred by any scruples or any sense of honour?
I could now see my weakness; I was paralysed and defenceless against this wretched woman who,
in order to constrain her daughter and dispose of her future, had only to claim her legal authority
over her. She could take her from me, and carry her away. Once back in Turkey, supported by
the horrible laws of Islam, all she need do was to sell her to Kiusko and thus give her up to him.

My mind was struck by a sudden idea. Was it not the height of folly on my part to give way
to childish alarms, and to defer action until after Kiusko and the Circassian had matured their
plans? Was it not possible for me to escape, carrying Kondjé-Gul off with me, and placing her
out of reach of their pursuit?

As soon as this idea had taken possession of my mind, it fixed itself there, and soon developed
into a resolution. I felt surprised that it had not occurred to me earlier, and decided to
put it into execution that very day. I knew that Kondjé-Gul would follow me, for we had often
cherished the idea of taking a journey together alone, and I had promised her we would carry
it out some day. In order to assure our successful escape, I resolved to give her no notice
beforehand, lest she should let it out to her mother.

It was necessary, however, to provide for the consequences of this disappearance, and the gossip
which would inevitably result in connection with it. Well, after a good deal of hesitation,
I confided the whole matter to my uncle.

"You old stupid!" said he to me, "why, I have known all about your little love-knot for the
last six months!"

"What! do you mean to say you knew that Kondjé-Gul?--"

"Lord bless you! Don't you suppose that I heard enough from Mohammed to make me keep my eyes open?"

After I had come to a complete understanding with my uncle, I made my own arrangements. I was
expected to dinner at Kondjé's that day. I found her quite sad; and on the pretext of giving
her some distraction, I ordered the carriage at about half-past eight, as if for a drive to
the Bois. We started off.

As soon as we were alone, she said to me:

"Good gracious, André! whatever has been passing between you and my mother? I am worried to
death. She has been talking again to me about my departure with her, and Fanny believes that
she is making her preparations for it already.--She is going to carry me away."

"All right, never mind her!" I answered with a laugh; "you're out of danger already."

"How so?"

"I'm taking you away! You won't go back to the house, for we are off to Fontainebleau, where
we shall both of us remain in concealment, while watching events."

Need I describe to you her joy? In the Champs Elysées we got out, as if in order to walk, and
I sent back the carriage. An hour after this, a cab set us down at the railway station!

We spent a delightful week in the forest, playing truant. Fanny, who is a reliable girl, has
joined us here. We really had a narrow escape; for it seems that Madame Murrah had, the very
day we made our flight, got everything planned for leaving the day after. When she found in
the morning that Kondjé-Gul was gone, she nearly had a fit. Kiusko came to the house, being
sent for at once; all of which pretty clearly indicates an understanding between them. The
Circassian of course rushed after me to the Rue de Varennes, noisily demanding her daughter.
So my aunt got to know all about it! My uncle, whom I had taken into my confidence, put them
at once completely off the scent, by replying that I had started for Spain.

We are safe! Everything has been accomplished, as if by enchantment. For fifteen days past
my Kondjé-Gul has been settled in a charming cottage at Ermont, in the middle of the forest,
hidden away like a daisy in a field of standing corn. She has disappeared from view, leaving
no more traces behind her than a bird in its flight through the air; and I am back in Paris,
as if I had just returned from a journey. I have sent word to Madame Murrah that her daughter,
having resolved to become a Christian, has taken refuge in a remote convent. You may picture
to yourself her rage; but, as she is henceforth powerless, I fear her no more. Being a foreigner,
and in her precarious position, she cannot venture to charge me with abduction, and, as you
may imagine, I am not likely to let her take us by surprise. In order to get rid of her, I
have offered to give her an annuity to live in Turkey, but she has declined it.

There can be no doubt that Kiusko guides her, and that they have by no means given up their
game, but are ready to resort to any violence. You may be sure I keep a sharp eye on them,
and am prepared for them. The contest, however, is too unequal for me to alarm myself very
much. My uncle, who never troubles himself much with legal scruples, telegraphed to a couple
of his old sailors, Onésime and Rupert, to come up from Toulon: they were born on our Férouzat
estate, and are, moreover, his "god-children." They are ridiculously like him, except that
one of them is two inches taller than the captain. Their godfather has installed them at Ermont,
and I don't mind betting that, with a couple of strapping fellows like them about the place,
any attempt at carrying off Kondjé-Gul in my absence would meet with a few trifling obstacles!

As to myself, I defy them to get on my scent.

Being accustomed to taking morning rides, I could find my way to our happy cottage home by
various routes, starting from opposite sides of the city. Once on the road, it was impossible
to follow me, even at a distance; for I should soon recognize any one on horseback who appeared
too inquisitive about my journey. Moreover, if these tactics failed, the pace at which Star
goes would easily baffle any pertinacious pursuit. I often stay for two or three days at this
delicious retreat. My uncle delights in coming there from time to time to take his madeira.

In short, after the little adventures we have lately gone through, we are now leading a very
pleasant existence.

You can see what a simple matter it is.

My famous system, you will tell me, has come to grief. Here I am, all forlorn, among the ruins
of my harem, running my head against impossibilities opposed to our laws, morals, and conventionalities,
with my last sultana leaning on my arm; here I am, like some little St. John,[B] reduced to
shady expedients in order to get a minute's interview with my mistress, imprisoned in her tower.
I am trembling between our caresses, you will say, lest a commissary of police should come
to cut the golden thread upon which my remaining blisses hang, and force me by legal authority
to give back Kondjé-Gul to her cruel mother.

     [Footnote B: Referring to a familiar French nursery-legend similar
     to that of Santa Claus.--Trans.]

Well, my dear friend, I will answer you very briefly, I am in love! Yes, I am in love! These
words are a reply, I think, to everything; although I must own that fear of the commissary,
which certainly does threaten my felicity, has considerably humbled my Oriental pride--I am
in love! I have burnt my essay for the Academy.

Well, then, I have abjured my polygamy. What more can I say to you?

To-day I must confide to you a most valuable discovery I have made; for I beg you to believe
that love is not, as so many foolish people imagine, an extinguisher to the fire of the human
intellect. On the contrary, it stimulates the perceptions; and an enthusiastic lover, who is
familiar with the elements of science, can extend therein his field of observations quite as
easily as persons whose hearts are whole.

As an example of this, then, I have just been realising the beauty of a charming phenomenon
of nature--a most ordinary one, and yet one which so far has remained, I think, completely
unobserved. I refer to the spring!

As a great artist, you of course know, as well as any one in the world, that this is the season
which leads from the winter to the summer; but what I feel sure you don't know is the full
charm of this transitory period, in which the whole forest awakens, in which the bushes sprout,
and the young birds twitter in their nests!

According to Vauvenargues, "The first days of spring possess less charm than the growing virtue
of a young man."

Well, it would ill befit me to depreciate the value of such an axiom, coming from the pen of
such a great philosopher; still, and without wishing to disdain his politeness in so far as
it is really flattering to myself at this particular moment of my career, I do not hesitate
to raise my voice after his, and assert, without any pretence of modesty, that this charm is
at least as great in the case of Flora's lover as in mine, and that it is only fair to accord
to each his just portion. If my budding virtue possesses ineffable charms, no less powerful
are those of the lilacs and the roses. It is really, I assure you, a wonderful spectacle. You
ought to have witnessed it! Some day I will tell you all about it, as I have just been doing
to my uncle, who finds it all very curious, although he professes only to understand me "very
approximately."

Getting up at sunrise, Kondjé and I take a run through the coppices, her little feet all wet
with the dew. We feel free, merry, and careless, dismissing the commissary to oblivion, and
trusting to each other's love, the full charms of which this solitary companionship has revealed
to us. I do not risk more than two excursions to Paris each week, one to my aunt Eudoxia's,
and one to my aunt Van Cloth's. Having made these angel's visits, and performed various family
duties, I vanish, by day or by night as the case may be, eluding the vigilance of the spies
who have no doubt been set at my heels by the unscrupulous mother, or by that rascal Kiusko,
as we now call him. These adventures augment my rapturous felicity; and if time and destiny
have shorn me of the privilege of my sultanship, which you say rendered me so proud and vain,
I retain at all events the glory of being happy.

I am in love, my dear fellow; and therefore I dream and forget. But there is another still
darker speck on my serene sky. Anna Campbell is just approaching her eighteenth birthday, and
I cannot think of this without a good deal of melancholy. Although my uncle is delighted to
take occasional walks here, at the end of which he finds a capital glass of madeira waiting
for him, he, as you are aware, is not a person of romantic temperament, and has already noted
with his scrutinising eye the ravages caused by a double passion, which bodes no good for his
daughter's married life.

The other night, on my return from my aunt Van Cloth's, he questioned me very seriously on
the subject. As to my disappointing his hopes, he knows that the idea of such a thing would
not even occur to me. That is a matter of honour between us.

I spoke of a further delay before preparing my poor Kondjé-Gul for the blow. He seemed touched
at this token of the sincerity of my entirely filial devotion to him.

The commissary has at last come; we have been discovered!

Yesterday afternoon we were sitting in the garden, under the shade of a little clump of trees.
My uncle, in a big arm-chair, was smoking and listening, while I read to him the newspapers,
which had just been brought to us. Suddenly Kondjé-Gul, who was standing a few steps off from
us, arranging the plants for her window, uttered a suppressed cry, and I saw her run up to
me all at once, pale and trembling.

"What's the matter, dear?" I said to her.

"Look there! look there!" she answered, in a terrified voice, pointing towards the house, "my
mother!"

At the same moment, on the door-step of the cottage, through which she had passed, and found
it empty, appeared the Circassian.

She was accompanied by a man.

"This is my daughter, sir," she said to him.

I sprang forward to throw myself in front of Kondjé-Gul.

"Come, don't agitate yourself, my dear fellow!" said my uncle. "Do me the favour of keeping quiet!"

Then, rising up as he would to receive guests, he walked a few steps towards Madame Murrah,
who had advanced towards us, and addressing himself to the man, said to him:

"Will you inform me, sir, to what I am indebted for the honour of this visit from you?"

"I am a Commissary of Police, sir, and am deputed by the court to assist this lady, who has
come to demand the restitution of her daughter, illegally harboured by you at your house."

"Very well, sir," continued my uncle; "I am delighted to see you! But be so kind, if you please,
as to walk into the house, where we can consider your demand more comfortably than in this garden."

"Take care," said the Circassian to the commissary: "they want to contrive her escape!"

"Nothing of the sort, my dear madam," replied my uncle: "this gentleman will tell you that
we could not venture to do such a thing in his presence. Your daughter will remain with us
to answer any questions which may be put to her. I am taking her arm, and if you will kindly
follow us, I shall have the honour of showing you the way."

Onésime and Rupert might be distinguished in the dim perspective, waiting apparently for a
signal from the captain to remove both the commissary and the unwelcome lady visitor.

Our hearts were beating fast: Kondjé-Gul could hardly restrain her feelings. We went in, and
my uncle, as calm as ever, offered chairs to Madame Murrah and to the emissary of justice.
Then he addressed him again, saying:

"May I inquire, sir, whether you are provided with a formal warrant authorizing you to employ
force to take this young lady away, according to her mother's wish?"

"I have the judge's order!" exclaimed Madame Murrah with vehemence.

"Excuse me, excuse me," continued my uncle, "but let us avoid all confusion! Be so kind, if
you please, madam, as to permit the commissary to answer my question. We are anxious to observe
the respect which we owe to his office."

I felt done for. How could we resist the law? My poor Kondjé cast despairing looks at me.

"Madame Murrah being a foreigner, sir," answered the officer of the law, "as you appear to
understand, my only instructions are to accompany her, and, in the event of opposition being
made to her rights, to draw up a report in order to enable her to bring an action against you
in a court of justice."

"Ah!" continued my uncle. "Well, then, sir! you may proceed, if you please, to take down our
replies. In the first place, then, the young lady formally declines to return to her mother."

"That's false!" said the Circassian. "She is my daughter, and belongs only to me! She will
obey me, for she knows that I shall curse her if----"

"Let us be quite calm, if you please, and have no useless words!" replied my uncle. "It is
your daughter's turn to reply.--Ask her, sir."

The commissary then addressed himself to Kondjé-Gul, repeating the question. I saw her turn
pale and hesitate, terror-stricken by her mother's looks.

"Do you want to leave me, then?" I said to her passionately.

"Oh, no!" she exclaimed. Then turning towards the commissary, she added in a firm voice: "I
do not wish to go with my mother, sir."

At this the Circassian rose up in a fury.

Kondjé-Gul fell on her knees before her, supplicating her with tears, in piteous tones.

In my alarm I rushed forward.

"Get her out of the room; take her away!" my uncle said to me sharply.

My poor Kondjé-Gul resisted, so I took her up in my arms and carried her out. At the door I
found Fanny, who had come up, and I left my darling in her care.

Madame Murrah darted forward to follow her daughter, but my uncle had seized her by the wrist,
and forcing her down again, said to her in Turkish:

"We have not finished; and if you stir, beware!"

"Sir," exclaimed the Circassian, addressing the officer of the law, "you see how violently
they are treating me, and how they are threatening me!"

All this had taken place so quickly that the commissary hardly had time to intervene with a
gesture. Onésime and Rupert were strolling about outside the window.

"Excuse me for having sent this child out, sir," continued my uncle; "but you are, I believe,
sufficiently acquainted already with her decision. Moreover, she is there to reply afresh to
you, if you desire to question her alone, secure from all influence and pressure. It remains
for me to speak now upon a subject which she ought not to hear mentioned. After her refusal
to follow her mother, which she has just given so clearly, be so good as to add on your report
that I also refuse very emphatically to give her up to her."

"You have no right to rob me of my daughter," exclaimed the Circassian, who was nearly delirious
with rage.

"That is just the point we are about to discuss," replied my uncle. "Firstly, then, allow me
to introduce myself to you, sir," he continued, quite calmly; "and to explain my position and
rights in this matter. My name is The Late Barbassou, ex-General and Pasha in the service of
His Majesty the Sultan--ranks which entitle me to the privileges of a Turkish subject."

The commissary smiled and nodded to him, thus indicating that the name of Barbassou-Pasha was
already known to him.

"As a consequence of these rights, sir," continued my uncle, "my private transactions cannot
come before the French courts; so that this affair must be settled entirely between Madame
Murrah and myself. I should even add, while expressing to you my regrets for the inconvenience
which it is causing you, that it is I who have brought about this very necessary interview.
I presented myself twice at Madame Murrah's house in Paris, with the object of bringing this
stupid business to a conclusion. For reasons, no doubt, which you are already in a position
to estimate, she refused to see me. I arranged, therefore, that she should be informed yesterday
that her daughter was concealed in this house; and I came here at once myself, in order to
have the pleasure of meeting the lady. There you have the whole story."

"I refused to see you," said Kondjé-Gul's mother, "simply because I do not know you! And I
ask the judge to order the restitution of my daughter, which the Ambassador of our Sultan supports
me in demanding. I have his order to this effect."

Here the commissary intervened, and, addressing my uncle, whose imperturbable composure quite
astounded me, said gravely:

"Would you oblige me, sir, by stating your motive for refusing to give up this young lady to
her mother? According to our laws, as you are aware, this is a circumstance which, notwithstanding
the purely voluntary character of my mandate, I am bound to enter in my report."

"Certainly, sir," replied my uncle, "your request is a very proper one, and I will at once
reply to it, as I would have done in the presence of the consul of His Excellency the Turkish
Ambassador, were it not that Madame Murrah has strong motives for avoiding such an explanation
before him, between good Mussulmans like herself and me."

"I understand you," continued the commissary, suppressing another smile at this declaration
of Barbassou-Pasha.

"Sir," added my uncle, "I have the advantage of being a Mahometan; and according to the special
customs of my country, with which you are acquainted, this lady sold me her daughter by a straightforward
and honourable contract, sanctioned by our usages, recognized and supported by our laws: these
laws formally enjoin me to protect her, and to maintain her always in a position corresponding
with my own rank and fortune, while they forbid me ever to abandon her. Under the same contract
this lady duly received her 'gift' or legitimate remuneration, which had been estimated, fixed,
and agreed to by her. Therefore, as you will perceive, sir," he added, "no discussion in this
case would ever be listened to by an Ottoman tribunal, and Madame Murrah's suit would be ignominiously
dismissed."

"We are in France," said Madame Murrah, "and my daughter has become free!"

"To conclude, sir," continued my uncle, without taking any notice of this objection, "this
lady and I are both subjects of His Majesty the Sultan. Ours is simply a private dispute between
fellow-Turks, coming entirely under the jurisdiction of our national tribunals, and is one
in which your French courts, as you will understand, have no authority to interfere."

"You are not my daughter's husband!" exclaimed the Circassian; "she does not belong to you
any longer, for you have given her to your nephew, a Giaour, an infidel!"

"Quite true, madam!" replied my uncle. "But," he continued, "these are details in a private
dispute, with which this gentleman is not concerned. And I fancy he has by this time obtained
sufficient information."

"Certainly, sir," said the officer of the law, rising from his seat. "I have taken down your
replies, and my mission is accomplished."

Barbassou-Pasha, upon this conclusion, saluted him in his most dignified manner and conducted
him out with every polite attention.

The Circassian, exasperated beyond measure, had not moved: rage was depicted on her whole countenance,
and she looked like one determined to fight it out to the bitter end.

"I must insist upon speaking to my daughter," she said passionately, "and then we shall see!"

Just as he caught these words, my uncle came in, leading my poor Kondjé-Gul by the hand.

"Come, you silly old fool," he said to Madame Murrah, changing his tone quite suddenly, "you
can see now that there is nothing left to you but to submit. Swallow all your stupid threats!
You will make a good thing out of it all the same--for I give your daughter in marriage to
my nephew!"

I thought I must have misunderstood him.

"Uncle!" I exclaimed, "what did you say?"

"Why, you rascal, I see that I must give her to you, since you love each other so consumedly!"

Kondjé-Gul could not repress a scream of joy. We both threw ourselves into my uncle's arms
at the same time.

"Yes," he said, "what a jolly couple they look! But it was your aunt Eudoxia who led me at
last to play this card! Here I am nicely balked of all my fine schemes!"

"Oh!" exclaimed Kondjé-Gul, "we will love each other so much!"

"Well, well! There, they're quite smothering me! May the good God bless you! go along. But
now we shall have to come to an understanding with this excellent mother; for according to
these infernal French laws, which complicate everything, her consent is necessary for your
marriage."

"I certainly shall not give it," said Madame Murrah furiously.

"All right! We will see about that," he continued. "That is a matter to be arranged between
us, and for that purpose I shall go to your house to-morrow. Only, I give you warning, no noise,
please, no silly attempts to carry off your daughter, otherwise we shall wait until she is
of age in two years' time, and then you will have nothing."

Don't be surprised, Louis, if for the rest of this page I scrawl like a monkey. At the recollection
of this scene, my eyes are quite obscured by a veil of mist. By Jove, so much the worse! for
now it's all breaking into real tears.

Dear me, what a brick of an uncle he is to me!

Notwithstanding Barbassou-Pasha's Turkish tactics, and in spite of the happiness which for
the moment quite overwhelmed us, my poor Kondjé-Gul began to tremble again with fear after
the departure of her mother, whom we knew to be capable of any mad act. We decided that, in
order to avoid a very real danger, we would take her that very day to the convent of the Ladies
of X.; this we did. Before she becomes my wife she is going to become a Christian, in pursuance
of the wish which, as you know, she has expressed a long time since, of embracing my faith.
This visit, which will account to the world for her disappearance, will be explained quite
naturally by this finale of our marriage; and if people ever discover anything about this queer
story of our amours, well--I shall have married my own slave, that's all.

Eh? What? You incorrigible carper! Is it not, after all, a charming romance?

A fortnight has passed since the intervention of the commissary. Kiusko has gone: he disappeared
one morning. My aunt Eudoxia, who has taken us under her special care, goes to see Kondjé-Gul
every day at the convent. She is charming in her kindness to us, but still we have our anxieties.
The negotiation of the maternal consent is an arduous task, for the Circassian makes absurd
pretensions; my uncle, however, undertakes to bring her down.

What will you say next, I wonder? That I am reduced to buying my own wife? I flatter myself
that I shall find happiness in that bargain! How many others are there, who have done the same,
that could say as much as that?

CHAPTER XIX.

Here's a fine business! It is my uncle who has got into trouble this time! My aunt Eudoxia
has found out everything, and I have just spent two days in helping my aunt Van Cloth to pack
up and get back to Holland with my long string of cousins, the fat Dirkie, the cooking moulds,
and the barrel-organ following by goods' train.

It was a veritable thunderclap!

I have told you all about this Dutch household and its patriarchal felicity, its sweetmeat
and sausage pastries, and its inimitable tarts--less appetizing, however, than my aunt's fine
eyes. I have told you about their quiet family evenings with my uncle's pipe and schiedam,
in which domino-parties of three were varied by the delightful treat of a symphony from one
of the great masters, executed in a masterly style by a pretty little plump hand covered with
pink dimples.

Once or twice a week, as became a favourite and affectionate nephew, I came into the midst
of this idyll of the land of tulips; and always quitted it full of sweetmeats and good advice.

However, the day before yesterday, Ernest, the second of my cousins, who is five years old,
suddenly caught a violent fever; he grew scarlet in the face, and his stomach swelled up like
a balloon.

My poor aunt, having exhausted all her arsenal of aperients and astringents against what she
reckoned to be an indigestion due to preserved plums, quite lost her head. In the afternoon
the child grew worse. Where in Paris could she find a Dutch doctor? She could only place confidence
in a Dutchman. At the end of her wits with fear, she thought she would go after my uncle or
me; so, without thinking any more about it, as she knew our address, she takes a cab and gets
driven to the Rue de Varennes, believing in her simplicity that this was where our shops and
offices were.

She arrives and asks for my uncle. Being seven o'clock, the hall-porter tells her that the
captain will soon be in, shows her to the staircase, and rings the bell; one of the men-servants
asks her for her name, and then opens the folding doors, announcing--

"Madame Barbassou!"

It is my aunt Eudoxia who receives her.

My aunt Van Cloth, who is distracted with anxiety, thinks that she sees before her some lady
of my family, and in order to excuse herself for disturbing her, begins by saying that she
has come to see Captain Barbassou, her husband.

Imagine the stupefaction of my aunt Eudoxia! But being too astute to betray herself, she lets
the other speak, questions her and learns the whole story. Then, like the good soul that she
is, and feeling sorry for poor Ernest and his swollen stomach, she rings and orders the carriage
to be ready, so that she may go as soon as possible to her own doctor; upon which my aunt Van
Cloth, who is of an effusive nature, embraces her most affectionately, calling her her dearest
friend.

Just then my uncle arrives.

I was not present; but my aunt Eudoxia, who continues to laugh over it, has related to me all
the details of the affair. At the sight of this remarkable fusion of "the two branches of his
hymens," as she termed it, the Pasha was positively dumbfounded. All the more so as my aunt
Van Cloth, who understood no more about this extraordinary position of affairs than she did
of Hebrew, threw herself into his arms, and exclaimed:

"Ah! Anatole! here you are, dear!--Our Ernest is in danger!"

The bravest man will quail occasionally; and at this unfortunate and unavoidable attack, which
tore asunder the whole veil of mystery, the splendid composure with which Nature has armed
my uncle Barbassou really deserted him for a moment. But, like a man who is superior to misfortunes
of this sort, when he found himself caught he did not on this occasion, more than on any other,
waste any time over spilt cream.

"Quick! we must go and fetch the child!" he said.

And taking advantage of the fact that my aunt Van Cloth was hanging to him, he carried her
off without any more ado, and went out by the door, without leaving her time to kiss the Countess
of Monteclaro, as she certainly would have done out of politeness. From the ante-room he dragged
her down to the carriage, where he packed her in.

I was coming down from my own chambers just as he returned from this summary execution. Although
about the last thing I expected to come in for was the climax of a tragic occurrence, I could
see easily enough that my uncle had experienced some little shock; but the announcement of
dinner and the ordinary tone of my aunt's reception creating a diversion, I did not feel certain
until we were seated at table that there was some storm in the air which was only restrained
from bursting by the presence of the servants. The Pasha, sitting in silence with his head
bent down into his plate, seemed to be absorbed by some abstruse considerations, which caused
him that evening to forget to grumble at the cook. My aunt, on the contrary, sparkling with
humour, and in her most charming and gracious mood, suggested by her smiles a certain lightness
of heart: he eyed her suspiciously from time to time, like a man with an uncomfortable conscience.

When the meal was over we returned to the drawing-room, and coffee being served, remained there
alone. The Countess of Monteclaro, still as gracious as ever, made some sly thrusts at him,
the significance of which escaped me somewhat. The captain evidently was keeping very quiet.
Finally, after half an hour, as I was about to leave, and he showed symptoms of an intention
to slip off, she said to him, in her most insinuating manner--

"I will detain you for a minute, my dear; I must have a little conversation with you about
a matter on which I want to take your advice."

I kissed the hand which she held out to me, and which indicated that my presence was not wanted.

"Well, good night, old good-for-nothing!" she added, as she accompanied me as far as the door
of the adjoining room.

What passed after I left, none will ever know. My aunt, with her exquisite tact, has only related
to me the original and amusing side of the matter, laughing at her unfortunate discovery in
the lofty manner of a noble lady who is smoothing over a family trouble. Apart from her very
genuine affection for my uncle, she entertains also a certain esteem for him, which she could
never depart from before his nephew.

As for myself, I remained still in ignorance of everything until nine o'clock, when the Pasha
joined me again at the club, where he had particularly asked me to wait for him.

At the first glance I guessed that there had been a row. Without saying a word, he led me into
a little detached room: there he fell into an arm-chair, and shook his head in silence, as
he looked at me.

"Good gracious! what's the matter, uncle?" I asked.

"Pfuiii!" he replied, staring with his full eyes, and prolonging this kind of whistling exclamation,
like a man who is breathing more freely after a narrow escape.

His gestures were so eloquent, his sigh so expressive and so reinvigorating, that I waited
until he had given complete vent to it. When I saw him quite exhausted by it, I continued,
feeling really anxious--

"Come! what is it?"

"Oh, I've just had such a nasty turn!" he answered at last, "Pfuiii!"

I respected this new effort at relief, which, moreover set him right this time.

"You've had some words with my aunt, I suppose?" I added, at a venture, recollecting the cloud
which seemed to hang over us at dinner.

"A regular earthquake!" he drawled out, in that appalling Marseilles accent which he falls
into whenever he is overcome by any strong emotion. "Your aunt Eudoxia has discovered the whole
bag of tricks! The story of the Passy house, your aunt Gretchen, the children, Dirkie, and
the whole blessed shop!"

"But, perhaps she has only suspicions--the consequence of some gossip she has heard?"

"Suspicions?" he exclaimed; "why, they have met each other!"

"Nonsense, that's impossible!--Are you really sure of this?"

"Tê! Sure indeed? I should think so! I return home to dinner, come into the drawing-room, and
I actually find them both there, talking together. They were kissing each other!"

"The deuce!" I exclaimed, quite alarmed this time.

"Well, that was a stunner, wasn't it, my dear boy?"

"It was indeed! Whatever did you do?"

"I separated them, carrying Gretchen back at once to her carriage."

"Then now I understand the chill which seemed to be over us all dinner-time. So, after I went
out, you had a heavy downfall?"

"Pfuiii!" my uncle began again.

This last sigh seemed to lose itself in such a vista of painful souvenirs, that the whole of
Théramène's narrative would certainly have taken less time to tell. I proceeded as quickly
as I could, foreseeing that my intervention would be necessary.

"Had I not better run over to my aunt Gretchen's?" I asked him.

"Yes, I certainly think you had. I promised that, except in case of Ernest's illness proving
serious, they should all leave Paris to-morrow! You may still have time to arrange that this
evening," he added, looking at the clock.

"All right, I'm off!" I replied, rising up.

As I was about to go out, he called me back.

"Ah! above all," he continued sharply, "don't forget to tell Eudoxia to-morrow that it is you
who have undertaken this business, and that as for me, I have not stirred from here!"

"That's quite understood, uncle," I answered, laughing to myself at the blue funk he was in.

Needless to add, I did not lose any time. In a quarter of an hour I was at Passy. It so happened
that a favourable crisis had come over Ernest and relieved him, and he gave no further cause
for anxiety. My aunt Gretchen, who had gone through all this business as a blind man might
pass under an arch, without knowing anything about it, did not evince the least surprise on
hearing that my uncle "having received a telegram which had obliged him to leave Paris that
evening, had commissioned me in his absence to send her off immediately to Amsterdam." She
entrusted me with no end of compliments for the Countess of Monteclaro, whose acquaintance
she was charmed to have made.

The next morning she was rolling away in the express, delighted to have made such an agreeable
and enjoyable visit.

A week has now passed since this affair, and beyond that my uncle is still quite humiliated
by a malicious sort of gaiety affected by my aunt, who often calls him "The Pasha," instead
of "The Captain," which is the title she always gave him formerly, everything has resumed the
harmonious tranquillity of the best regulated household. Attentions, politenesses, gallantries,
&c., are quite the order of the day. Only he is ruining me with all the presents he lavishes
upon her; and I have been forced to make serious complaints on the subject to my aunt, who
has laughed insanely at them, maintaining that it is "the sinner's ransom." Still, some kind
of restrictions are necessary in families, and I have warned her that, if it continues, I shall
stop "the late Barbassou's" credit, seeing that he is dead.

"You see what a simple matter it is, as my uncle says," I added.

But she only laughed again, louder than ever. We have got on no further.

Louis, go and hang yourself! I was married yesterday, and you were not there!

The ceremony was very fine. It was at the church of Sainte Clotilde; all the Faubourg St. Germain
was there, delighted at Kondjé-Gul's conversion, and with her beauty, her charming manners,
and the romance connected with our marriage. Everyone was there who has made any name in the
world of art, not to speak of that of finance. There was Baron Rothschild, who had a long conversation
with my uncle. Three special correspondents for London newspapers were present, and all our
own Paris reporters. High Mass, full choral; Fauré sang his Pie Jesus, Madame Carvalho and
Adelina Patti the Credo.

At the entrance, the crowd nearly crushed us. Barbassou-Pasha, Count of Monteclaro, gave his
arm to the bride. Poor Kondjé, what agitation, what emotion, what delight she evinced! I escorted
Madame Murrah in a splendid costume, tamed but very dignified still, and playing her part with
noble airs, like a fatalist. "It was written!" She started off the same day to Rhodes, where
my uncle is finding a position for her--as head manager of his Botany Bay.

The Countess of Monteclaro was there, and Anna Campbell was smiling all over as she acted,
in company with Maud and Susannah Montague, as bridesmaid to her friend Kondjé-Gul.

It took them all exactly an hour to pass in procession through the vestry. We had to sign the
register there, and my uncle headed it with his self-assumed title of "The late Barbassou,"
to which he clings.

Then came the deluge of congratulations, my beautiful Christian wife blushing in her emotion,
with her garland of orange-flowers. (Well, yes! And why not? It's the custom, you know.)

At two o'clock, back to the house, a family love-feast, and preparations for the flight of
the young couple to Férouzat. Peace and joy in all hearts. My uncle, at last admitted to absolution,
quivering with pleasure at hearing my aunt Eudoxia calling him no longer "Pasha," but "Captain,"
as of old.

Everywhere Love and Spring!

Come now, Louis, quite seriously, are you, who have made the experiment, quite sure that one
heart suffices for one veritable love? I am anxious to know.

When evening arrived, the Count and Countess of Monteclaro accompanied us to the railway station.
They will join us at the end of the month.

I leave you to imagine for yourself all the kisses and salutations, promises and grandparents'
advice.

While my aunt was exhorting Kondjé-Gul, my uncle favoured me with a few words on his part.

"You see," he said to me quietly, standing by the side of our carriage, "there is one thing
which it is indispensable for you not to forget, and that is never on any account to have two
wives--in the same town!"

Louis, I think my uncle is a little wanting in principle.