“But others,” Pahul continued, “objected loudly. For a little I could not catch a word. At
last they became quieter, and I heard him repeat that he was the bread of life, adding, ‘Your
fathers ate manna and are dead, but this bread a man may eat of and never die.’ At this there
was new contention. A woman fainted—the one to whom Judas had spoken. They carried her out.
As she passed I could see her face. It was Mary of Magdala. Judas held her by the waist, another
her feet.”

Antipas drew a hand across his face. “It is impossible,” he muttered.

“Not impossible at all. I saw her as plainly as I see you. The man next to me said that the
Rabbi had cast from her seven devils. Moreover, Johanna was there—yes, yes, the wife of Khuza,
your steward; it was she, I remember now, who had her by the feet. And there were others that
I recognized, and others that the man next to me pointed out: Zabdia, a well-to-do fisherman
whom I have seen time and again, and with him his sons James and John, and Salomè his wife.
Then, too, there were Simon Barjona and Andrew his brother. Simon had his wife with him, his
children, and his mother-in-law. The man next to me said that the Rabbi called James and John
the Sons of Thunder, and Simon a stone. There was Mathias the tax-gatherer, Philip of Bethsaïda,
Joseph Barsaba, Mary Clopas, Susannah, Nathaniel of Cana, Thomas, Thaddeus, Aristian the custom-house
officer, Ruth the tax-gatherer’s wife, mechanics from Scythopolis, and Scribes from Jerusalem.”

The fingers of Antipas’ hand glittered with jewels. He played with them nervously. The sky
seemed immeasurably distant. For some little time it had been hesitating between different
shades of blue, but now it chose a fathomless indigo; Night unloosed her draperies, and, with
the prodigality of a queen who reigns only when she falls, flung out upon them uncounted stars.

Pahul continued: “And many of them seemed to be at odds with each other. They wrangled so that
often I could not distinguish a word. Some of them left the synagogue. The Rabbi himself must
have been vexed, for in a lull I heard him say to those who were nearest, ‘Will you also go
away?’ Judas came in at that moment, and he turned to him: ‘Have I not chosen twelve, and is
not one of you a devil?’ Judas came forward at once and protested. I could see he was in earnest,
and meant what he said. The man next told me that he was devoted to the Rabbi. Then Simon Barjona,
in answer to his question, called out, ‘To whom should we go? Thou art Christ, the Son of God.’ ”

Antipas had ceased to listen. At the mention of the Messiah the dream of Israel had returned,
and with it the pageants of its faith unrolled.

Behind the confines of history, in the naked desert he saw a bedouin, austere and grandiose,
preparing the tenets of a nation’s creed; in the remoter past a shadow in which there was lightning,
then the splendor of that first dawn where the future opened like a book, and in the grammar
of the Eternal the promise of an age of gold.

