The college which claims this honour is commonly called University College, though its legal
name is Magna Aula Universitatis. The name "University College" causes much perplexity to visitors.
They are with difficulty taught by the friend who is lionizing them to distinguish it from
the University. But the University of Oxford is a federation of colleges, of which University
College is one, resembling in all respects the rest of the sisterhood, being, like them, under
the federal authority of the University, retaining the same measure of college right, conducting
the domestic instruction and discipline of its students through its own officers, but sending
them to the lecture rooms of the University Professors for the higher teaching, and to the
University examination rooms to be examined for their degrees. The college is an ample and
venerable pile, with two towered gateways, each opening into a quadrangle, its front stretching
along the High Street, on the side opposite St. Mary's Church. The darkness of the stone seems
to bespeak immemorial antiquity, but the style, which is the later Gothic characteristic of
Oxford, and symbolical of its history, shows that the buildings really belong to the time of
the Stuarts. "That building must be very old, Sir," said an American visitor to the master
of the college, pointing to its dark front. "Oh, no," was the master's reply, "the colour deceives
you; that building is not more than two hundred years old." In invidious contrast to this mass,
debased but imposing in its style, the pedantic mania for pure Gothic which marks the Neo-catholic
reaction in Oxford, and which will perhaps hereafter be derided as we deride the classic mania
of the last century, has led Mr. Gilbert Scott to erect a pure Gothic library. This building,
moreover, has nothing in its form to bespeak its purpose, but resembles a chapel. Over the
gateway of the larger quadrangle is a statue, in Roman costume, of James II.; one of the few
memorials of the ejected tyrant, who in his career of reaction visited the college and had
two rooms on the east side of the quadrangle fitted up for the performance of mass. Obadiah
Walker, the master of the college, had turned Papist, and became one of the leaders of the
reaction, in the overthrow of which he was involved, the fall of his master and the ruin of
his party being announced to him by the boys singing at his window--"Ave Maria, old Obadiah."
In the same quadrangle are the chambers of Shelley, and the room to which he was summoned by
the assembled college authorities to receive, with his friend Hogg, sentence of expulsion for
having circulated an atheistical treatise. In the ante-chapel is the florid monument of Sir
William Jones. But the modern divinities of the college are the two great legal brothers, Lord
Eldon and Lord Stowell, whose colossal statues fraternally united are conspicuous in the library,
whose portraits hang side by side in the hall, whose medallion busts greet you at the entrance
to the Common Room. Pass by these medallions, and look into the Common Room itself, with panelled
walls, red curtains, polished mahogany table, and generally cozy aspect, whither after the
dinner in hall the fellows of the college retire to sip their wine and taste such social happiness
as the rule of celibacy permits. Over that ample fire-place, round the blaze of which the circle
is drawn in the winter evenings, you will see the marble bust, carved by no mean hand, of an
ancient king, and underneath it are the words Alfredus Rex Fundator.

