But without doubt she had been reserving her looks of love a good part of the time for ten
months, now--ever since he began to lavish his own on Cornelia Turner at the end of the previous
July. He does really seem to have already forgotten Cornelia's merits in one brief month, for
he eulogizes Harriet in a way which rules all competition out:

               "Thou only virtuous, gentle, kind,
               Amid a world of hate."

He complains of her hardness, and begs her to make the concession of a "slight endurance"--of
his waywardness, perhaps--for the sake of "a fellow-being's lasting weal." But the main force
of his appeal is in his closing stanza, and is strongly worded:

               "O tract for once no erring guide!

This is in May--apparently towards the end of it. Harriet and Shelley were corresponding all
the time. Harriet got the poem--a copy exists in her own handwriting; she being the only gentle
and kind person amid a world of hate, according to Shelley's own testimony in the poem, we
are permitted to think that the daily letters would presently have melted that kind and gentle
heart and brought about the reconciliation, if there had been time but there wasn't; for in
a very few days--in fact, before the 8th of June--Shelley was in love with another woman.

And so--perhaps while Harriet was walking the floor nights, trying to get her poem by heart--her
husband was doing a fresh one--for the other girl--Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin--with sentiments
like these in it:

Exhibit G

               To spend years thus and be rewarded,
               As thou, sweet love, requited me
               When none were near. "Before the close of June it was known and felt by Mary and
Shelley that each was inexpressibly dear to the other." Yes, Shelley had
found this child of sixteen to his liking, and had wooed and won her in
the graveyard. But that is nothing; it was better than wooing her in her
nursery, at any rate, where it might have disturbed the other children.

However, she was a child in years only. From the day that she set her masculine grip on Shelley
he was to frisk no more. If she had occupied the only kind and gentle Harriet's place in March
it would have been a thrilling spectacle to see her invade the Boinville rookery and read the
riot act. That holiday of Shelley's would have been of short duration, and Cornelia's hair
would have been as gray as her mother's when the services were over.

Hogg went to the Godwin residence in Skinner Street with Shelley on that 8th of June. They
passed through Godwin's little debt-factory of a book-shop and went up-stairs hunting for the
proprietor. Nobody there. Shelley strode about the room impatiently, making its crazy floor
quake under him. Then a door "was partially and softly opened. A thrilling voice called 'Shelley!'
A thrilling voice answered, 'Mary!' And he darted out of the room like an arrow from the bow
of the far-shooting King. A very young female, fair and fair-haired, pale, indeed, and with
a piercing look, wearing a frock of tartan, an unusual dress in London at that time, had called
him out of the room."

This is Mary Godwin, as described by Hogg. The thrill of the voices shows that the love of
Shelley and Mary was already upward of a fortnight old; therefore it had been born within the
month of May--born while Harriet was still trying to get her poem by heart, we think. I must
not be asked how I know so much about that thrill; it is my secret. The biographer and I have
private ways of finding out things when it is necessary to find them out and the customary
methods fail.

Shelley left London that day, and was gone ten days. The biographer conjectures that he spent
this interval with Harriet in Bath. It would be just like him. To the end of his days he liked
to be in love with two women at once. He was more in love with Miss Hitchener when he married
Harriet than he was with Harriet, and told the lady so with simple and unostentatious candor.
He was more in love with Cornelia than he was with Harriet in the end of 1813 and the beginning
of 1814, yet he supplied both of them with love poems of an equal temperature meantime; he
loved Mary and Harriet in June, and while getting ready to run off with the one, it is conjectured
that he put in his odd time trying to get reconciled to the other; by-and-by, while still in
love with Mary, he will make love to her half-sister by marriage, adoption, and the visitation
of God, through the medium of clandestine letters, and she will answer with letters that are
for no eye but his own.

When Shelley encountered Mary Godwin he was looking around for another paradise. He had, tastes
of his own, and there were features about the Godwin establishment that strongly recommended
it. Godwin was an advanced thinker and an able writer. One of his romances is still read, but
his philosophical works, once so esteemed, are out of vogue now; their authority was already
declining when Shelley made his acquaintance --that is, it was declining with the public, but
not with Shelley. They had been his moral and political Bible, and they were that yet. Shelley
the infidel would himself have claimed to be less a work of God than a work of Godwin. Godwin's
philosophies had formed his mind and interwoven themselves into it and become a part of its
texture; he regarded himself as Godwin's spiritual son. Godwin was not without self-appreciation;
indeed, it may be conjectured that from his point of view the last syllable of his name was
surplusage. He lived serene in his lofty world of philosophy, far above the mean interests
that absorbed smaller men, and only came down to the ground at intervals to pass the hat for
alms to pay his debts with, and insult the man that relieved him. Several of his principles
were out of the ordinary. For example, he was opposed to marriage. He was not aware that his
preachings from this text were but theory and wind; he supposed he was in earnest in imploring
people to live together without marrying, until Shelley furnished him a working model of his
scheme and a practical example to analyze, by applying the principle in his own family; the
matter took a different and surprising aspect then. The late Matthew Arnold said that the main
defect in Shelley's make-up was that he was destitute of the sense of humor. This episode must
have escaped Mr. Arnold's attention.

But we have said enough about the head of the new paradise. Mrs. Godwin is described as being
in several ways a terror; and even when her soul was in repose she wore green spectacles. But
I suspect that her main unattractiveness was born of the fact that she wrote the letters that
are out in the appendix-basket in the back yard--letters which are an outrage and wholly untrustworthy,
for they say some kind things about poor Harriet and tell some disagreeable truths about her
husband; and these things make the fabulist grit his teeth a good deal.

Next we have Fanny Godwin--a Godwin by courtesy only; she was Mrs. Godwin's natural daughter
by a former friend. She was a sweet and winning girl, but she presently wearied of the Godwin
paradise, and poisoned herself.

Last in the list is Jane (or Claire, as she preferred to call herself) Clairmont, daughter
of Mrs. Godwin by a former marriage. She was very young and pretty and accommodating, and always
ready to do what she could to make things pleasant. After Shelley ran off with her part-sister
Mary, she became the guest of the pair, and contributed a natural child to their nursery--Allegra.
Lord Byron was the father.

We have named the several members and advantages of the new paradise in Skinner Street, with
its crazy book-shop underneath. Shelley was all right now, this was a better place than the
other; more variety anyway, and more different kinds of fragrance. One could turn out poetry
here without any trouble at all.

The way the new love-match came about was this:

Shelley told Mary all his aggravations and sorrows and griefs, and about the wet-nurse and
the bonnetshop and the surgeon and the carriage, and the sister-in-law that blocked the London
game, and about Cornelia and her mamma, and how they had turned him out of the house after
making so much of him; and how he had deserted Harriet and then Harriet had deserted him, and
how the reconciliation was working along and Harriet getting her poem by heart; and still he
was not happy, and Mary pitied him, for she had had trouble herself. But I am not satisfied
with this. It reads too much like statistics. It lacks smoothness and grace, and is too earthy
and business-like. It has the sordid look of a trades-union procession out on strike. That
is not the right form for it. The book does it better; we will fall back on the book and have
a cake-walk:

          "It was easy to divine that some restless grief possessed him;
          Mary herself was not unlearned in the lore of pain.  His
          generous zeal in her father's behalf, his spiritual sonship to
          Godwin, his reverence for her mother's memory, were guarantees
          with Mary of his excellence.--[What she was after was
          guarantees of his excellence.  That he stood ready to desert
          his wife and child was one of them, apparently.]--The new
          friends could not lack subjects of discourse, and underneath
          their words about Mary's mother, and 'Political Justice,' and
          'Rights of Woman,' were two young hearts, each feeling towards
          the other, each perhaps unaware, trembling in the direction of
          the other.  The desire to assuage the suffering of one whose
          happiness has grown precious to us may become a hunger of the
          spirit as keen as any other, and this hunger now possessed
          Mary's heart; when her eyes rested unseen on Shelley, it was
          with a look full of the ardor of a 'soothing pity.'"

Yes, that is better and has more composure. That is just the way it happened. He told her about
the wet-nurse, she told him about political justice; he told her about the deadly sister-in-law,
she told him about her mother; he told her about the bonnet-shop, she murmured back about the
rights of woman; then he assuaged her, then she assuaged him; then he assuaged her some more,
next she assuaged him some more; then they both assuaged one another simultaneously; and so
they went on by the hour assuaging and assuaging and assuaging, until at last what was the
result? They were in love. It will happen so every time.

          "He had married a woman who, as he now persuaded himself, had
          never truly loved him, who loved only his fortune and his rank,
          and who proved her selfishness by deserting him in his misery."

I think that that is not quite fair to Harriet. We have no certainty that she knew Cornelia
had turned him out of the house. He went back to Cornelia, and Harriet may have supposed that
he was as happy with her as ever. Still, it was judicious to begin to lay on the whitewash,
for Shelley is going to need many a coat of it now, and the sooner the reader becomes used
to the intrusion of the brush the sooner he will get reconciled to it and stop fretting about it.

After Shelley's (conjectured) visit to Harriet at Bath--8th of June to 18th--"it seems to have
been arranged that Shelley should henceforth join the Skinner Street household each day at dinner."

Nothing could be handier than this; things will swim along now.

