At this point in his reflections he was jolted into alertness by the sound of approaching hoofbeats.
A moment later he heard a second set of hoofbeats and knew that Mallory II had made his presence
known. Presently both sets crescendoed into staccato thunder as the two "knights" came pounding
toward each other, and not long afterward there was a clank and a clatter as Mallory II went
tumbling out of his saddle and into the roadside weeds. Finally the single set of hoofbeats
took over again, and Mallory III saw a horse and rider coming around the bend in the highway.
He braced himself.

Before making his play, he waited till horse and rider were directly opposite him; then he
encephalopathed Easy Money to charge. "Sir Launcelot" managed to get his shield up in time,
but the maneuver did him no good. Mallory's spearhead struck the shield dead center, and "Sir
Launcelot" went sailing out of his saddle to land with an awesome clatter flat on his back
on the highway. He did not get up.

Dismounting, Mallory removed the man's helmet. It was Perfidion all right. There was a large
bruise on the side of his head and he was out cold, but he was still breathing. Next, Mallory
looked for the Sangraal. Perfidion had concealed it somewhere, and apparently he had done the
job well. Since the armor could not have accommodated an object of that size, the hiding place
had to be somewhere on the body of his horse. The horse was standing quietly beside Easy Money
in the middle of the highway. It was jet-black and its fetlock-length trappings were blue,
threaded with silver; otherwise, the two steeds were identical. Mallory tumbled to the truth
then, went over to where the black "horse" was standing, raised its trappings, found the tiny
activator button, and depressed it. The croup-hood rose up, and there in the secret compartment,
wrapped in red samite, lay the cause of the mounting absentee-rate in King Arthur's court.

Always the skeptic, Mallory raised a corner of the samite in order to make certain that he
was not being cheated. Instantly, a reflected ray of moonlight stabbed upward into his eyes,
and for a moment he was blinded. Exorcising the thought that sneaked into his mind, he closed
the croup-hood, rearranged the trappings, and returned to Perfidion's side. Dragging the armor-encumbered
man over to the black rohorse and slinging him over the saddle was no easy matter, but Mallory
managed; then he picked up Perfidion's helmet and spear and set the former on the pommel and
wedged the latter in one of the stirrups. Finally he mounted Easy Money and, encephalopathing
the black rohorse to follow, set out down the highway away from the castle of Carbonek.

Make-believe castles could fool the hadbeens, but they couldn't fool a professional. He spotted
the phony towers of Perfidion's TSB rising above the trees before he had proceeded half a mile.
After raising the "portcullis", he got the man down from the black rohorse, dragged him inside,
and propped him against the rec-hall bar. Then he got the man's helmet and spear and laid them
beside him. After considerable reflection, he went into the control room, set the time-dial
for June 10, 1964, the space-dial for a busy intersection in downtown Los Angeles, and punched
out H-O-T-D-O-G S-T-A-N-D on the lumillusion panel. Satisfied, he went into the generator room
and short-circuited the automatic throw-out unit so that when rematerialization took place,
the generator would burn up. Finding a ball of heavy-duty twine, he returned to the control
room, tied one end to the master switch, and began backing out of the TSB, unwinding the twine
as he went.

In the rec-hall, he paused, and grinned down at the still-unconscious Perfidion. "It's a better
break than you meant to give me, Jason," he said. "And don't worry--once you explain to the
authorities what you're doing in a suit of sixth-century armor and how you happened to open
a giant hot-dog stand in the middle of a traffic-clogged crossroads, you'll be all right. As
a matter of fact, with your knowledge of things to come, you'll probably wind up a richer man
than you are now--if the smog doesn't get you first." He stepped through the lock, jerked the
twine, and the "castle" vanished into thin air.

Remounting Easy Money and encephalopathing the black rohorse to follow, he started back toward
the Yore, taking a direct route through the forest. He was halfway to his destination and had
just emerged into a wide meadow when he saw the knight with the white shield riding toward
him in the bright moonlight. In the center of the shield there was a vivid blood-red cross.

When the knight saw Mallory, he brought his steed to a halt. Moonlight glimmered eerily on
his shield, turned his helmet to silver. His armor seemed to emit an unearthly light--a light
that was at once terrifying and transcendent. The hilt of his sword was as blood-red as the
cross on his shield; so was the pommel of his spear. Here was righteousness incarnate. Here
in the form of an armored man on horseback was the quintessence of the Age of Chivalry--not
the Age of Chivalry as exemplified by the vain and boasting nobles who had constituted nine-tenths
of the knight-errantry profession and who had used the quest of the Holy Grail as an excuse
to seek after mead and maidens, but the Age of Chivalry as it might have been if the ideal
behind it had been shared by the many instead of by the few; the Age of Chivalry, in short,
as it had come down to posterity through the pages of Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur.

At length the knight spoke: "I hight Sir Galahad of the Table Round."

Reluctantly, Mallory encephalopathed his two rohorses to halt, and said the only thing he had
left to say: "I hight Sir Thomas of the castle Yore."

"By whose leave bear ye likenesses of the red arms and the white shield whereon shines the
red cross the which was put there by Joseph of Arimathea whilst he lay dying in his deadly bed?"

Mallory did not answer.

There was silence. Then, "I would joust with ye," Sir Galahad said.

There it was, laid right on the line. The challenge--

The death sentence.

Nonsense! Mallory told himself. He's nothing but a nineteen-year old kid. With your rohorse
and your superior weapons you can unseat him in two seconds flat, and once he's down, that
glorified junk pile he's wearing will glue him to the ground so fast he won't be able to lift
a finger!

Aloud, he said, "Have at me then!"

Instantly, Sir Galahad wheeled his horse around and rode to the far side of the meadow. There,
he wheeled the horse around again and dressed his spear. Moonlight danced a silvery saraband
on his white shield, and the blood-red cross blurred and seemed to run.

Mallory dressed his own spear. Immediately, Sir Galahad charged. Full speed ahead, Easy Money!
Mallory encephalopathed, and the rohorse took off like a rocket.

All he had to do was to hang on tight, and the joust would be in the bag, he reassured himself.
Sir Galahad's spear would break like a matchstick, while his own superior spear would penetrate
Sir Galahad's shield as though the shield was made of tissue paper, as in a sense it really
was when you compared the metal that constituted it to modern alloys. No matter how you looked
at the situation, the kid was in for a big letdown. Mallory almost felt sorry for him.

The hoofbeats of horse and rohorse crescendoed; there was the resounding clang! of steel coming
into violent contact with steel. Mallory's spear struck Sir Galahad's shield dead center--and
snapped in two. Sir Galahad's spear struck Mallory's shield dead center--and Mallory sailed
over Easy Money's croup and crashed to the ground.

