Hitherto, in their secret interviews, she had always received each fresh intelligence of his
progress with the transports of pleasure of a child, but without appreciating the labors of
each of these so arduous steps that lead to honors, and always asking him with naivete when
he would be Constable, and when they should marry, as if she were asking him when he would
come to the Caroussel, or whether the weather was fine.  Hitherto, he had smiled at these questions
and this ignorance, pardonable at eighteen, in a girl born to a throne and accustomed to a
grandeur natural to her, which she found around her on her entrance into life; but now he made
more serious reflections upon this character.  And when, but just quitting the imposing assembly
of conspirators, representatives of all the orders of the kingdom, his ear, wherein still resounded
the masculine voices that had sworn to undertake a vast war, was struck with the first words
of her for whom that war was commenced, he feared for the first time lest this naivete should
be in reality simple levity, not coming from the heart.  He resolved to sound it.

"Oh, heavens!  how I tremble, Henri!"  she said as she entered the confessional; "you make
me come without guards, without a coach.  I always tremble lest I should be seen by my people
coming out of the Hotel de Nevers.  How much longer must I yet conceal myself like a criminal?
The Queen was very angry when I avowed the matter to her; and whenever she speaks to me of
it, 'tis with her severe air that you know, and which always makes me weep.  Oh, I am terribly
afraid!"

She was silent; Cinq-Mars replied only with a deep sigh.

"How! you do not speak to me!"  she said.

"Are these, then, all your terrors?"  asked Cinq-Mars, bitterly.

"Can I have greater?  Oh, 'mon ami', in what a tone, with what a voice, do you address me!
Are you angry because I came too late?"

"Too soon, Madame, much too soon, for the things you are to hear--for I see you are far from
prepared for them."

Marie, affected at the gloomy and bitter tone of his voice, began to weep.

"Alas, what have I done," she said, "that you should call me Madame, and treat me thus harshly?"

"Be tranquil," replied Cinq-Mars, but with irony in his tone.  "'Tis not, indeed, you who are
guilty; but I--I alone; not toward you, but for you."

"Have you done wrong, then?  Have you ordered the death of any one?  Oh, no, I am sure you
have not, you are so good!"

"What!"  said Cinq-Mars, "are you as nothing in my designs?  Did I misconstrue your thoughts
when you looked at me in the Queen's boudoir? Can I no longer read in your eyes?  Was the fire
which animated them that of a love for Richelieu?  That admiration which you promised to him
who should dare to say all to the King, where is it?  Is it all a falsehood?"

Marie burst into tears.

"You still speak to me with bitterness," she said; "I have not deserved it.  Do you suppose,
because I speak not of this fearful conspiracy, that I have forgotten it?  Do you not see me
miserable at the thought?  Must you see my tears?  Behold them; I shed enough in secret.  Henri,
believe that if I have avoided this terrible subject in our last interviews, it is from the
fear of learning too much.  Have I any other thought that that of your dangers?  Do I not know
that it is for me you incur them? Alas!  if you fight for me, have I not also to sustain attacks
no less cruel?  Happier than I, you have only to combat hatred, while I struggle against friendship.
The Cardinal will oppose to you men and weapons; but the Queen, the gentle Anne of Austria,
employs only tender advice, caresses, sometimes tears."

"Touching and invincible constraint to make you accept a throne," said Cinq-Mars, bitterly.
"I well conceive you must need some efforts to resist such seductions; but first, Madame, I
must release you from your vows."

"Alas, great Heaven!  what is there, then, against us?"

"There is God above us, and against us," replied Henri, in a severe tone; "the King has deceived
me."

There was an agitated movement on the part of the Abbe.

Marie exclaimed, "I foresaw it; this is the misfortune I dreamed and dreamed of!  It is I who
caused it?"

"He deceived me, as he pressed my hand," continued Cinq-Mars; "he betrayed me by the villain
Joseph, whom an offer has been made to me to poniard."

The Abbe gave a start of horror which half opened the door of the confessional.

"O father, fear nothing," said Henri d'Effiat; "your pupil will never strike such blows.  Those
I prepare will be heard from afar, and the broad day will light them up; but there remains
a duty--a sacred duty-- for me to fulfil.  Behold your son sacrifice himself before you!  Alas!
I have not lived long in the sight of happiness, and I am about, perhaps, to destroy it by
your hand, that consecrated it."

As he spoke, he opened the light grating which separated him from his old tutor; the latter,
still observing an extraordinary silence, passed his hood over his forehead.

"Restore this nuptial ring to the Duchesse de Mantua," said Cinq-Mars, in a tone less firm;
"I can not keep it unless she give it me a second time, for I am not the same whom she promised
to espouse."

The priest hastily seized the ring, and passed it through the opposite grating; this mark of
indifference astonished Cinq-Mars.

"What!  Father," he said, "are you also changed?"

Marie wept no longer; but, raising her angelic voice, which awakened a faint echo along the
aisles of the church, as the softest sigh of the organ, she said, returning the ring to Cinq-Mars:

"O dearest, be not angry!  I comprehend you not.  Can we break asunder what God has just united,
and can I leave you, when I know you are unhappy?  If the King no longer loves you, at least
you may be assured he will not harm you, since he has not harmed the Cardinal, whom he never
loved.  Do you think yourself undone, because he is perhaps unwilling to separate from his
old servant?  Well, let us await the return of his friendship; forget these conspirators, who
affright me.  If they give up hope, I shall thank Heaven, for then I shall no longer tremble
for you. Why needlessly afflict ourselves?  The Queen loves us, and we are both very young;
let us wait. 

Others: "It serves him right, having stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, for some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked his arms, which had been thrashing those near
him.

Others rushed to the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule with as hard of a kick. It
took fifteen men to take him down, with hits to their nose. Also, my master was in the pulpit
on his knees, hands and eyes to the sky, carried in the divine essence, so that the plants,
noises, and voices in the church had no part of the divine contemplation.
  O Marie!  shall I own it?  at the moment I heard this, my very
soul was tossed.  I doubted everything; it seemed to me that the centre of the world was unhinged
when I found truth quit the heart of the King.  I saw our whole edifice crumble to the ground;
another hour, and the conspiracy would vanish away, and I should lose you forever.  One means
remained; I employed it."

"What means?"  said Marie.

"The treaty with Spain was in my hand; I signed it."

"Ah, heavens! destroy it."

"It is gone."

"Who bears it?"

"Fontrailles."

"Recall him."

"He will, ere this, have passed the defiles of Oleron," said Cinq-Mars, rising up.  "All is
ready at Madrid, all at Sedan.  Armies await me, Marie--armies!  Richelieu is in the midst
of them.  He totters; it needs but one blow to overthrow him, and you are mine forever--forever
the wife of the triumphant Cinq-Mars."

"Of Cinq-Mars the rebel," she said, sighing.

"Well, have it so, the rebel; but no longer the favorite.  Rebel, criminal, worthy of the scaffold,
I know it," cried the impassioned youth, falling on his knees; "but a rebel for love, a rebel
for you, whom my sword will at last achieve for me."

"Alas, a sword imbrued in the blood of your country!  Is it not a poniard?"

"Pause!  for pity, pause, Marie!  Let kings abandon me, let warriors forsake me, I shall only
be the more firm; but a word from you will vanquish me, and once again the time for reflection
will be passed from me.  Yes, I am a criminal; and that is why I still hesitate to think myself
worthy of you.  Abandon me, Marie; take back the ring."

"I can not," she said; "for I am your wife, whatever you be."

"You hear her, father!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, transported with happiness; "bless this second
union, the work of devotion, even more beautiful than that of love.  Let her be mine while I live."

Without answering, the Abbe opened the door of the confessional and had quitted the church
ere Cinq-Mars had time to rise and follow him.

"Where are you going?  What is the matter?"  he cried.

But no one answered.

"Do not call out, in the name of Heaven!"  said Marie, "or I am lost; he has doubtless heard
some one in the church."

But D'Effiat, agitated, and without answering her, rushed forth, and sought his late tutor
through the church, but in vain.  Drawing his sword, he proceeded to the entrance which Grandchamp
had to guard; he called him and listened.

"Now let him go," said a voice at the corner of the street; and at the same moment was heard
the galloping of horses.

"Grandchamp, wilt thou answer?"  cried Cinq-Mars.

"Help, Henri, my dear boy!"  exclaimed the voice of the Abbe Quillet.

"Whence come you?  You endanger me," said the grand ecuyer, approaching him.

But he saw that his poor tutor, without a hat in the falling snow, was in a most deplorable
condition.

"They stopped me, and they robbed me," he cried.  "The villains, the assassins!  they prevented
me from calling out; they stopped my mouth with a handkerchief."

At this noise, Grandchamp at length came, rubbing his eyes, like one just awakened.  Laure,
terrified, ran into the church to her mistress; all hastily followed her to reassure Marie,
and then surrounded the old Abbe.

"The villains!  they bound my hands, as you see.  There were more than twenty of them; they
took from me the key of the side door of the church."

"How!  just now?"  said Cinq-Mars; "and why did you quit us?"

"Quit you!  why, they have kept me there two hours."

"Two hours!"  cried Henri, terrified.

"Ah, miserable old man that I am!"  said Grandchamp; "I have slept while my master was in danger.
It is the first time." 

"This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not. But the blind and the wretched miser petty
cleric who, with God give to both the one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved me, those
are just having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "ssed another loose tongue, starved me, those
are just having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "

"Father Joseph," answered the good priest.

"Fly!  you are lost!"  cried Marie.