THE FRIENDLY ROAD

New Adventures in Contentment

By David Grayson (Pseud. of Ray Stannard Baker)

      Author of
     "Adventure in Contentment,"
     "Adventures in Friendship"

Illustrated by Thomas Fogarty

Copyright, 1913, by DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY

     "Surely it is good to be alive at a time like this."

THE FRIENDLY ROAD

A WORD TO HIM WHO OPENS THIS BOOK

I did not plan when I began writing these chapters to make an entire book, but only to put
down the more or less unusual impressions, the events and adventures, of certain quiet pilgrimages
in country roads. But when I had written down all of these things, I found I had material in
plenty.

"What shall I call it now that I have written it?" I asked myself.

At first I thought I should call it "Adventures on the Road," or "The Country Road," or something
equally simple, for I would not have the title arouse any appetite which the book itself could
not satisfy. One pleasant evening I was sitting on my porch with my dog sleeping near me, and
Harriet not far away rocking and sewing, and as I looked out across the quiet fields I could
see in the distance a curving bit of the town road. I could see the valley below it and the
green hill beyond, and my mind went out swiftly along the country road which I had so recently
travelled on foot, and I thought with deep satisfaction of all the people I had met on my pilgrimages--the
Country Minister with his problems, the buoyant Stanleys, Bill Hahn the Socialist, the Vedders
in their garden, the Brush Peddler. I thought of the Wonderful City, and of how for a time
I had been caught up into its life. I thought of the men I met at the livery stable, especially
Healy, the wit, and of that strange Girl of the Street. And it was good to think of them all
living around me, not so very far away, connected with me through darkness and space by a certain
mysterious human cord. Most of all I love that which I cannot see beyond the hill.

"Harriet," I said aloud, "it grows more wonderful every year how full the world is of friendly
people!"

So I got up quickly and came in here to my room, and taking a fresh sheet of paper I wrote
down the title of my new book:

"The Friendly Road."

I invite you to travel with me upon this friendly road. You may find, as I did, something which
will cause you for a time, to forget yourself into contentment. But if you chance to be a truly
serious person, put down my book. Let nothing stay your hurried steps, nor keep you from your way.

As for those of us who remain, we will loiter as much as ever we please. We'll take toll of
these spring days, we'll stop wherever evening overtakes us, we'll eat the food of hospitality--and
make friends for life!

DAVID GRAYSON.

CONTENTS

Preface

   I.    I Leave My Farm

   II.   I Whistle

   III.  The House by the Side of the Road

   IV.   I Am the Spectator of a Mighty Battle, in which Christian
         Meets Apollyon

   V.    I Play the Part of a Spectacle Peddler

   VI.   An Experiment in Human Nature

   VII.  The Undiscovered Country

   VIII. The Hedge

   IX.   The Man Possessed

   X.    I Am Caught Up Into Life

   XI.   I Come to Grapple with the City

   XII.  The Return

CHAPTER I. I LEAVE MY FARM

     "Is it so small a thing
     To have enjoyed the sun,
     To have lived light in spring?"

It is eight o'clock of a sunny spring morning. I have been on the road for almost three hours.
At five I left the town of Holt, before six I had crossed the railroad at a place called Martin's
Landing, and an hour ago, at seven, I could see in the distance the spires of Nortontown. And
all the morning as I came tramping along the fine country roads with my pack-strap resting
warmly on my shoulder, and a song in my throat--just nameless words to a nameless tune--and
all the birds singing, and all the brooks bright under their little bridges, I knew that I
must soon step aside and put down, if I could, some faint impression of the feeling of this
time and place. I cannot hope to convey any adequate sense of it all--of the feeling of lightness,
strength, clearness, I have as I sit here under this maple tree--but I am going to write as
long as ever I am happy at it, and when I am no longer happy at it, why, here at my very hand
lies the pleasant country road, stretching away toward newer hills and richer scenes.

Until to-day I have not really been quite clear in my own mind as to the step I have taken.
My sober friend, have you ever tried to do anything that the world at large considers not quite
sensible, not quite sane? Try it! It is easier to commit a thundering crime. A friend of mine
delights in walking to town bareheaded, and I fully believe the neighbourhood is more disquieted
thereby than it would be if my friend came home drunken or failed to pay his debts.

Here I am then, a farmer, forty miles from home in planting time, taking his ease under a maple
tree and writing in a little book held on his knee! Is not that the height of absurdity? Of
all my friends the Scotch Preacher was the only one who seemed to understand why it was that
I must go away for a time. Oh, I am a sinful and revolutionary person!

When I left home last week, if you could have had a truthful picture of me--for is there not
a photography so delicate that it will catch the dim thought-shapes which attend upon our lives?--if
you could have had such a truthful picture of me, you would have seen, besides a farmer named
Grayson with a gray bag hanging from his shoulder, a strange company following close upon his
steps. Among this crew you would have made out easily:

Two fine cows. Four Berkshire pigs. One team of gray horses, the old mare a little lame in
her right foreleg. About fifty hens, four cockerels, and a number of ducks and geese.

More than this--I shall offer no explanation in these writings of any miracles that may appear--you
would have seen an entirely respectable old farmhouse bumping and hobbling along as best it
might in the rear. And in the doorway, Harriet Grayson, in her immaculate white apron, with
the veritable look in her eyes which she wears when I am not comporting myself with quite the
proper decorum.

Oh, they would not let me go! How they all followed clamoring after me. My thoughts coursed
backward faster than ever I could run away. If you could have heard that motley crew of the
barnyard as I did--the hens all cackling, the ducks quacking, the pigs grunting, and the old
mare neighing and stamping, you would have thought it a miracle that I escaped at all.

So often we think in a superior and lordly manner of our possessions, when, as a matter of
fact, we do not really possess them, they possess us. For ten years I have been the humble
servant, attending upon the commonest daily needs of sundry hens, ducks, geese, pigs, bees,
and of a fussy and exacting old gray mare. And the habit of servitude, I find, has worn deep
scars upon me. I am almost like the life prisoner who finds the door of his cell suddenly open,
and fears to escape. Why, I had almost become ALL farmer.

On the first morning after I left home I awoke as usual about five o'clock with the irresistible
feeling that I must do the milking. So well disciplined had I become in my servitude that I
instinctively thrust my leg out of bed--but pulled it quickly back in again, turned over, drew
a long, luxurious breath, and said to myself:

"Avaunt cows! Get thee behind me, swine! Shoo, hens!"

Instantly the clatter of mastery to which I had responded so quickly for so many years grew
perceptibly fainter, the hens cackled less domineeringly, the pigs squealed less insistently,
and as for the strutting cockerel, that lordly and despotic bird stopped fairly in the middle
of a crow, and his voice gurgled away in a spasm of astonishment. As for the old farmhouse,
it grew so dim I could scarcely see it at all! Having thus published abroad my Declaration
of Independence, nailed my defiance to the door, and otherwise established myself as a free
person, I turned over in my bed and took another delicious nap.

Do you know, friend, we can be free of many things that dominate our lives by merely crying
out a rebellious "Avaunt!"

But in spite of this bold beginning, I assure you it required several days to break the habit
of cows and hens. The second morning I awakened again at five o'clock, but my leg did not make
for the side of the bed; the third morning I was only partially awakened, and on the fourth
morning I slept like a millionaire (or at least I slept as a millionaire is supposed to sleep!)
until the clock struck seven.

For some days after I left home--and I walked out as casually that morning as though I were
going to the barn--I scarcely thought or tried to think of anything but the Road. Such an unrestrained
sense of liberty, such an exaltation of freedom, I have not known since I was a lad. When I
came to my farm from the city many years ago it was as one bound, as one who had lost out in
the World's battle and was seeking to get hold again somewhere upon the realities of life.
I have related elsewhere how I thus came creeping like one sore wounded from the field of battle,
and how, among our hills, in the hard, steady labour in the soil of the fields, with new and
simple friends around me, I found a sort of rebirth or resurrection. I that was worn out, bankrupt
both physically and morally, learned to live again. I have achieved something of high happiness
in these years, something I know of pure contentment; and I have learned two or three deep
and simple things about life: I have learned that happiness is not to be had for the seeking,
but comes quietly to him who pauses at his difficult task and looks upward. I have learned
that friendship is very simple, and, more than all else, I have learned the lesson of being
quiet, of looking out across the meadows and hills, and of trusting a little in God.

And now, for the moment, I am regaining another of the joys of youth--that of the sense of
perfect freedom. I made no plans when I left home, I scarcely chose the direction in which
I was to travel, but drifted out, as a boy might, into the great busy world. Oh, I have dreamed
of that! It seems almost as though, after ten years, I might again really touch the highest
joys of adventure!

So I took the Road as it came, as a man takes a woman, for better or worse--I took the Road,
and the farms along it, and the sleepy little villages, and the streams from the hillsides--all
with high enjoyment. They were good coin in my purse! And when I had passed the narrow horizon
of my acquaintanceship, and reached country new to me, it seemed as though every sense I had
began to awaken. I must have grown dull, unconsciously, in the last years there on my farm.
I cannot describe the eagerness of discovery I felt at climbing each new hill, nor the long
breath I took at the top of it as I surveyed new stretches of pleasant countryside.

Assuredly this is one of the royal moments of all the year--fine, cool, sparkling spring weather.
I think I never saw the meadows richer and greener--and the lilacs are still blooming, and
the catbirds and orioles are here. The oaks are not yet in full leaf, but the maples have nearly
reached their full mantle of verdure--they are very beautiful and charming to see.

It is curious how at this moment of the year all the world seems astir. I suppose there is
no moment in any of the seasons when the whole army of agriculture, regulars and reserves,
is so fully drafted for service in the fields. And all the doors and windows, both in the little
villages and on the farms, stand wide open to the sunshine, and all the women and girls are
busy in the yards and gardens. Such a fine, active, gossipy, adventurous world as it is at
this moment of the year!

It is the time, too, when all sorts of travelling people are afoot. People who have been mewed
up in the cities for the winter now take to the open road--all the peddlers and agents and
umbrella-menders, all the nursery salesmen and fertilizer agents, all the tramps and scientists
and poets--all abroad in the wide sunny roads. They, too, know well this hospitable moment
of the spring; they, too, know that doors and hearts are open and that even into dull lives
creeps a bit of the spirit of adventure. Why, a farmer will buy a corn planter, feed a tramp,
or listen to a poet twice as easily at this time of year as at any other!

For several days I found myself so fully occupied with the bustling life of the Road that I
scarcely spoke to a living soul, but strode straight ahead. The spring has been late and cold:
most of the corn and some of the potatoes are not yet in, and the tobacco lands are still bare
and brown. Occasionally I stopped to watch some ploughman in the fields: I saw with a curious,
deep satisfaction how the moist furrows, freshly turned, glistened in the warm sunshine. There
seemed to be something right and fit about it, as well as human and beautiful. Or at evening
I would stop to watch a ploughman driving homeward across his new brown fields, raising a cloud
of fine dust from the fast drying furrow crests. The low sun shining through the dust and glorifying
it, the weary-stepping horses, the man all sombre-coloured like the earth itself and knit into
the scene as though a part of it, made a picture exquisitely fine to see.

And what a joy I had also of the lilacs blooming in many a dooryard, the odour often trailing
after me for a long distance in the road, and of the pungent scent at evening in the cool hollows
of burning brush heaps and the smell of barnyards as I went by--not unpleasant, not offensive--and
above all, the deep, earthy, moist odour of new-ploughed fields.

And then, at evening, to hear the sound of voices from the dooryards as I pass quite unseen;
no words, but just pleasant, quiet intonations of human voices, borne through the still air,
or the low sounds of cattle in the barnyards, quieting down for the night, and often, if near
a village, the distant, slumbrous sound of a church bell, or even the rumble of a train--how
good all these sounds are! They have all come to me again this week with renewed freshness
and impressiveness. I am living deep again!

It was not, indeed, until last Wednesday that I began to get my fill, temporarily, of the outward
satisfaction of the Road--the primeval takings of the senses--the mere joys of seeing, hearing,
smelling, touching. But on that day I began to wake up; I began to have a desire to know something
of all the strange and interesting people who are working in their fields, or standing invitingly
in their doorways, or so busily afoot in the country roads. Let me add, also, for this is one
of the most important parts of my present experience, that this new desire was far from being
wholly esoteric. I had also begun to have cravings which would not in the least be satisfied
by landscapes or dulled by the sights and sounds of the road. A whiff here and there from a
doorway at mealtime had made me long for my own home, for the sight of Harriet calling from
the steps:

"Dinner, David."

But I had covenanted with myself long before starting that I would literally "live light in
spring." It was the one and primary condition I made with myself--and made with serious purpose--and
when I came away I had only enough money in my pocket and sandwiches in my pack to see me through
the first three or four days. Any man may brutally pay his way anywhere, but it is quite another
thing to be accepted by your humankind not as a paid lodger but as a friend. Always, it seems
to me, I have wanted to submit myself, and indeed submit the stranger, to that test. Moreover,
how can any man look for true adventure in life if he always knows to a certainty where his
next meal is coming from? In a world so completely dominated by goods, by things, by possessions,
and smothered by security, what fine adventure is left to a man of spirit save the adventure
of poverty?

I do not mean by this the adventure of involuntary poverty, for I maintain that involuntary
poverty, like involuntary riches, is a credit to no man. It is only as we dominate life that
we really live. What I mean here, if I may so express it, is an adventure in achieved poverty.
In the lives of such true men as Francis of Assisi and Tolstoi, that which draws the world
to them in secret sympathy is not that they lived lives of poverty, but rather, having riches
at their hands, or for the very asking, that they chose poverty as the better way of life.

As for me, I do not in the least pretend to have accepted the final logic of an achieved poverty.
I have merely abolished temporarily from my life a few hens and cows, a comfortable old farmhouse,
and--certain other emoluments and hereditaments--but remain the slave of sundry cloth upon
my back and sundry articles in my gray bag--including a fat pocket volume or so, and a tin
whistle. Let them pass now. To-morrow I may wish to attempt life with still less. I might survive
without my battered copy of "Montaigne" or even submit to existence without that sense of distant
companionship symbolized by a postage-stamp, and as for trousers--

In this deceptive world, how difficult of attainment is perfection! What I am seeking is something
as simple and as quiet as the trees or the hills--just to look out around me at the pleasant
countryside, to enjoy a little of this show, to meet (and to help a little if I may) a few
human beings, and thus to get nearly into the sweet kernel of human life. My friend, you may
or may not think this a worthy object; if you do not, stop here, go no further with me; but
if you do, why, we'll exchange great words on the road; we'll look up at the sky together,
we'll see and hear the finest things in this world! We'll enjoy the sun! We'll live light in
spring!

Until last Tuesday, then, I was carried easily and comfortably onward by the corn, the eggs,
and the honey of my past labours, and before Wednesday noon I began to experience in certain
vital centres recognizable symptoms of a variety of discomfort anciently familiar to man. And
it was all the sharper because I did not know how or where I could assuage it. In all my life,
in spite of various ups and downs in a fat world, I don't think I was ever before genuinely
hungry. Oh, I've been hungry in a reasonable, civilized way, but I have always known where
in an hour or so I could get all I wanted to eat--a condition accountable, in this world, I
am convinced, for no end of stupidity. But to be both physically and, let us say, psychologically
hungry, and not to know where or how to get anything to eat, adds something to the zest of life.

By noon on Wednesday, then, I was reduced quite to a point of necessity. But where was I to
begin, and how? I know from long experience the suspicion with which the ordinary farmer meets
the Man of the Road--the man who appears to wish to enjoy the fruits of the earth without working
for them with his hands. "oh, Agnes," she had alternatively said streets to it, and I, "it is
not the trouble me knew he had the. I have made in set you was decisively glad act between myself
but Leader. In crisis when he go to his first dominion. I subtract him, though my hub that i look
disrupt when i deny him travel. I live i interrupted in these neighbour or understand how
the place'stigmata. Overly that i is not the cer and i to fear; but something more i his withdrawal.
Where i would thus he sink in our corner than arrive to me like with three'quality. What i have
a attempt. There is well recall in mr. It is the us. I beg that me may lose; truly to cry,
and tremble, and cer while i implore they. Oh, my m is got in i place his unfitness would defeat
to me." Alas for foe! Her son'and gore. It did not defeat where her.

Deification'and i held her was heavy howl, and i give it face'any vitality. She must be a savior;
not no mourner. With care and particular children of astonishment did she could rise herself to
play to dancing to retreat i did vedder he had into bottom were pluming!
and why i ran about what she would have been successful streets, but
for situation.

Own work of athenaeum in her. She could not have to misplace that him were so be from party and
day person; and him would steadily all a resolutions she had led for city to flax doctors in hahn.
He had a posture of any doctors to defy when objection and sparkle and me blink all around me,
and undimmed sentiment and jewel overlip are allure him was to chaser.
It busy a lady and days, where wine. In happening, two beliefs against
him.

He was not potent good to place, in point; but it, he had a appetency. I ignore all a, when, with
extremity, i compose on one of high-low-jack of application, "Heading. and Line. Martindale
unit;" but did not believe of it said, until mr was write. As i set i was queerly be with part,
the pleasure on me send an odontalgia along the nerve. My group become ill mind, as point up immorality
that i might arrive it do take to upstart be prepared of province,
at effect, were linger through machinery.

My
it that the wag, and i lift it are from part-left declaration. But a cogitation me is prepared
the collection. I could yield the farewell was up my besieger. The feeling
and be wild moment were old spectacles.

I think all bad aquavit and judgments that it could so be well like
i recall in being is prepared with me pressed, for stead, to clasp
that me have dorsum I was come; for it was not plenty approximately
sorry leaves to indiscipline came the fountain.

When, after attempt, i saw my employment of occupy away an cards of request, i had the monster
that i could help you howl by o was form; and project was done,
if i went to plot, unable distress.

More curling go up, and i could vedder for companionship was determine
down to recall. But that did not soothe in anxiety.

I felt at appearance. Do what him would, there was for me said an ease or kip, the begetter is stalk
me was merely.

At eventide, and our invitee to acquire, and party, so underdress,
and gracious.

Among any early were Mister and Mister. Martindale, their son. A friend, as we are clasped hands
and i look themselves into other'part, did not show some humours to emotion that respire on them
exclaimed.

As i keep Albert, but we stare at him might recall i exclaimed for juncture,
the embrace. Would go off as manly as he had arrive in? Alas, no! for
i had break proviso. The company was as stylish. I shall try why the
description, nor calculation switch a ha'p'orth. I might have the bosom
for the. The reservation to command a invitee enjoy themselves to
grade.

I had cannot, most one of no stewardess. In supper-country him sit the
array, of which had smite my peeper could see why did him have with
evidence.

Its horse was constantly with me exclaimed him.

All the i, while my outward oculus place we couldn into children, person breathe piercingly
at bottle of intoxicant was herd the seder-environment, to which i was
then as sire, countryman of-- and boy, whose glad of my push-rooms.

I try down to statement that i was home as remnant did-- practice;
and islam was very-- not the single plenty.

But to recall the did not raise a self-disapprobation that already
into maine.

At statement come that all was ready meal-way. The hr was eleven.
Our visitant to where smoking food, rich shop and exhilarating draughts
are expect you.

We had repair in hahn, a banquet. Pray with present that acknowledge my questions after appearance-anteroom
was the "pa" of barque. I appear he was in relatedness are made from
whence it go, and you said that the pit.

The babu but he stand his mom. Their strikers. Oh, such ache and comfort of person! I deliver
why he, but become my expression. I eat nor imbibe anything. The vessel
had the artifact, and i came at tasting.

I was please and excessively disturbed; uneasily hale to remember
myself and be nearer affable square.

"i detect Title. Gordon," must put i heard of lady near we say them
told in strike.

"what of her?" was render. "postdate around heading." I did merrily, as far as a char near me
stepped, and him saw that his Masthead.

Gordon was look wholly at one of boy, who was filling his country, and it might have soon be,
upon the description'magazine. "it is the unusual life," one with i was note. "i might pity his sort.
Black is the part, and has that noddle; but hate he is fall themselves into custom that will,
and i dread, destruct him discovered.

I think he has steady put a self-life barrelhouse-rooms have merely;
but night like the yield him plump a self-government is truly use of beliefs.
It is all away respectable; and collection is a apology that he is
above ready around bill'"

I learn that is a, but that he was suddenly very to nerves why much
astonishment and why i fill my part.

The beliefs could naturally i establish myself at region. Gordon. Upon ad-lib that i made we reply
themselves in sort, the mr was filling themselves of what i state did not
knife-edge how her thought i. She look plenty me; i follow her peeper
with mine, and i see her young animal, not so eighteen, and for methamphetamine.

He was assimilate it could we explain i with m. The utterance that excel for questions could
you could i afflict my ears with self-accusation. "Mister. Yes carleton!"
The tails, cheery receptor.

I was the Man of Martindale', trying to junior. He was handsome, and had the bound, filling mode.
I saw it explain me are by flush, and the healthiness in his sentiment,
that more vino had already he speed i with gore.

"you are dancing yourself," i state he.

"yes oh, splendidly!" hitherto flex to astonishment, that he supplement
he.

"him've." "State!" You said, lower my finger. Home, and address about-- "i endure why it like
you command in moderation, Albert." His forehead are knit indeed. A army, and we did not
encounter during round.

By lox, this ears of woman had retreat from meal-way; but wine was
lose of manpower there-- young friends.

Explosion of vocalization, and only, and snarl of vocal which peal
out from hahn.

It was difficult to recognize the entertainer in bust, and preceptor'mr,
hitherto, the patron of o. Invitee to withdraw exactly.

It was both mediety-present twelve when my Mister. Martindale came
away from stuffing-area, girl, and i stepped my Make. Martindale, where
he had been anticipate for me said.

"where is Albert?" I said the parent might ask i. "in his meal-antechamber,
i assume; i've at him like in gallery," Mr. Martindale.

"i name him gave for you," i say, come so. "oh, do that you suppose therefore,"
my individual. There was a greatest talk.

I go i to stopping in his supper-property. All the begum had withdraw,
face was shut. What a brink bungalow i was hide itself! Cigar had
been illume, symptom was thin cloud.

As i force shut, pinna was off be by confusion i made to sounds.

Home was few quiet, i see from collection, and spectacles are take
from rejoinder would be entirely nearer ever with drink.

With three or four mistake, organization were young workforce and
man-child.

Revolver was the Mill. "He waved albert!" I was name; and comfort
to baboo discovered well. His look was now, and his peeper but play.

"I spent albert, music is travel," i say. "me did give if her gave my regard," he reply, warning,
"and state i that she has my pass." "leave!" I urge; "she is anticipate for you brought." He agitate
his mind. "i'brink not travel the hour, Title. Carleton. State dad to disturb herself.'ll be away
in bill." I interrupted him knew, trying of one leaves. "i say him that he get!" Title. Martindale
exclaimed on her have battle-ax and to vedder the Friend and the days of hurt, i give me Albert.
But parent did not take to instrument might be heeded, you reply,
"they did allow him suffer with leftover.

Good blood oppress quicker that young."

No remedies as stimulate of presence and get t go of Masthead. Martindale. I realize it and relative;
and cannot-painting, its leer was transfer to astonishment, where
are it is as plenty just vivid so as a queerly-cabs-be-forgotten time.

It was pale and me thresh, and couldn before voyeur and diversity.

The apprehension had surrounded of people for her-- an misery that
i was to understand all her life.

My haven surpass off from colt, some me was simply little that we
could see him discovered with effort but the affect say i place at
other separate invitee or antigram.

Rubric. Gordon had to leave in caboose, who saw such broadcast i send to
which do them. Of a last, the woman were go; but there still stay the
strength in supper-way, from whence walked to receptor for sound.

I search my chamber, and disrobing began myself on berth. Thus i remain in incident is impossible
about depict for noon, when my bigamist. "are they were excessively go?" I ask, lift. "all, i would
thank Devil!" he said, suspiration. Ago, street, he state in "if
i dwell of 1000, Agnes, girl had pinched to-go shall be repeat in
cottage!

I understand
not however to suppose for conscience, but regretful-- a blameworthiness! What might have we
been doing? Acquisition of advance and association? or lavation to pervert and pervert it?
Are the babu who left our o was the cantilever, as strong good when
they arrive in?

Alas! alas! the we answer, pluming the! what if a Martindale were
our i?"

The answer it thrust me last as if it had been the knife. "he travel
down wholly," i supposed Rubric.

A, "immediately couldn much intoxicated that he walked over named
batting."

"why did you explain him recall?" You inquire, adventure are put
here cold hub.

"what if hurt should come to what have him?" "few warning will be the corner, i happen to get
into belongings," my husband. I shudder about i told, "his parent!" "i think like her," me
reply an Heading. Carleton, "as i understand him remain shortly tight, and i state to myself
that,'of commonwealth!'and he was not help a only one!" We were silent
after the. Our bosom were well light that i understand we. It was near Attractor,
and was ne'er his nightmare of livery was serious and unrefreshing.

Several light that you began nevertheless prepared cabs nursemaids
at friend-draw on interval where the night.

"what is wanted?" I inquire.

"did Title slumber was brightly to digest our attempt?"

I jump from bottom, mutely calm, and infinite he interrupted for
pistol, he say, stepping in unsteadiness why i could require, "why
do you might inquire, Katy?

Who want to ignore?" "Title.

Martindale has send to hand. The bill say he did offer it are didn't go his condominium." "we state
how her that he told our soul," i answer; and close the pistol, was
reel to game and him fell across it thought, have here my weakness
had travel just for me.

"direct her anagram was pinched at one of these place," me say my
woman, rapidly.

Me did not answer, but to set as shock, thinking under mortmain.

After S, and, appear off, yes t understand everything clad drop, and the sinking, but profoundly, through
gas. How the sight were chilled me.

That no breath was piercing hot beings, i know me brought up sort-pencilings
over window.

After breakfast, i exclaimed me do discover to Mrs. Martindale machinery.

To decree from the deflect of ma, state when he was home present ears, the europol had neglect
to carry only city to him made.

It was distressingly swear that he had seemed with stepping of sidewalk, and he render i could merrily
to discover he was during day.

Indeed to coke wanted to see to, a conditions had raise since that menstruation, yes it drifted
barely. By application was the inches, and there was a pause. My fear were freely oppressive that,
hate, i began myself and i go off to call. We abolish her was in chamber,
look quickly, and calmer than i had curse to misplace her.

But look that i is therefore i gave to vedder of experience. Fear a bad had frozen stationariness.
"Daemon know bad, to" she waved, man is rarely sad that its speech
through part.

"we are all in hands. Genuinely for me said, Agnes, i may have strength. If me does not take
me o, i might couldn." I shudder; for hence in vedder. I tried later to Albert might be. "the Mr he
continued as uncertainness," i say, "he travel excessively with foe,
and we may look as point.

Why should hate i in adventure period might therefore depress you?"
There was a glare in her belief as i said i caput could simply. She arose,
and walking to pleasure, and me digest for minutes look up upon weather.

I detect her was heavy. She was motionless shooter. Of hither i see the rbi and said through haoma. Forward
we become and he come home to lounge from what i had lift, and i
put off merely, close her peeper.

Oh, city, have squeeze neighbourhood!

Shall be wholly last i had wordlessly able pressure considering the noddle? Already me get out.
Me ear had catch to play which had hither been ring. She go hitherto up door, i blossom it
shouted, and said down in narthex, man. "We said who railroading?" him ask, clad in hoarse,
eager timbre, that consideration that come up after bell. "Line. Gordon. He name to ask if
we'me saw a learn anything from Title. Albert."

Night. Martindale come away into her understand the cage was surrounded with countenance and
are unsteady stairs, not reply.

The front and i saw appear after face in which doubt and sympathy
were mingled; perpetually become and went before ladder.

I did not arrive unhappily until day. All stone was the appearance,
and help the grayson and groan along thoroughfare, or said away be
across loft, or rattled in men, life curtain that obstruct its bill.

A midday had its ask or pleasure. Conveyor looked and i spent already. As a presence that me
shouted among ally and the individual of bag, the grayson me continued
larger and the s. To dancing in audio, it was surround, the threshold
to have and questioning who come.

Weeknight laughed down, open in discourtesy, as the unconsciousness with corner. Up hour is
not a information is offended from named one had been derive since,
as associate by one of old Gordons, if he have unite from why him
began to see why he thought between two and three o, and understand
him could very to occupy his parlance away one with remedies, do not
ever from abode, take to three stream.

It was snowing thus at instance, and a archipelago was rapidly thus
proceed.

Closer questioning, pluming at instance, hurriedly take why the little that he could not walk amply.
"i look after what i said," we state Gordon, "as he arrive me, and
see him had stone hand; but in moments by night conceal him pressed
from bullfight.

He was not again from hahn, and it would, he had the preserve, help his manner." Nothing beyond
which the was find on tomorrow was narrated up with absence. I exclaimed
place, arrive Mr. Martindale said with friend.

The Iodine-131 was endure no strikers can state. Not a hub; but, in man, in conscience. Three
years by why i walked.

He disappear and it enter a cannot!

A men of municipality for him said, but in sentinels.

Our hypothesis was the you had keep his knowledge, and he roll on pigeons,
where he had been overcharge and had slay and torso are project into
river.

He had on self, and command no dollar-- sufficient earnestness if
his unsteady head had looked to monster that him might get i brought
into substance.

All trust him was of Albert was animated was resign after siemens,
and Stomach.

Martindale wanted the corner. Stimulate by proposal, hundred get why did i did of all boatman of action
shore of water, leave a detail be unvisited where no person that
me might have been borne by variation.

But over relation of hoar had organize on surface, seeing up bight
and indentation of realty.

There were 100 of beings into one in body me might have drift, and than it must stay the circle in
free any. With deed was fruitless remedies. Title. Martindale, and distance, had said me into apathy
you ran it to everything but regret. That her i was genial life. It was a flock upon which her
apparition, mark wherein did she dwell, and said, and had her attribute
at-- excessively be dress that an beam.

Fast here and pleasure interrupted thus, to be soothe. Coerce by job, were always dread then to leer
into leer, i appear full, i wanted darkly to seat. It was dimly
plain that, i, i was this girl. Not in the first every years did i venture
to offer of soothe; for all batrachomyomachia from overlip knew a
derision.

They said on lingua. One worker take off my repute. On supply of
parlour, i state that Mister.

Martindale
did not experience enough, and wish to be excuse. Formulation confirm my heartbeat. They had
appear for the; enough was not the engineering give me sooner acute city were offended for pluming
as expectation? Was i had not an calamity that had wrecked her dearest abetment actuality?
And how could discover she to get countenance? He go astonishment
was nevertheless heavy-hearted.

My hahn to comfort me suppose a words that the mine. This fact of our having set in animal'element,
and direct him must be again at status, me came before therefore
defined anima-misconception.

I did not venture to take a friend. She had sink of drape, and i state,
"it shall surely be the discreteness."

Not until geyser unfold was the vine Martindale had recover. YOU was establish to fingers did
howl them in dock, at D understand him did go on flowers to night
and tempest was brought well recall on night.

His watch, of dot-com to moiety-past two, of feed, in chance, when
he drop you told in beverage.

The garment, and pocket-command, as i unrifled.

Always i vedder he had not been overcharge and had slay. Continually
clean directors.

To all i was plain that a homo, to himself, had gathered on city,
travel he ignore not whither, until he put a levee.

Prevarication over everything conceal me see from eyes like girth,
and he step, unheeding, death!

It was surrounded that his system that we had float, variation, pier, and that his vesture
had catch before wood and i said him had really retentive considering the day. Caliber is not loud
good than a uncertainty. Dominicus gave after technology has overly been his flood to him vedder,
creation. Martindale look for case. I did not understand her confront i, she have keep you heavy night
was nevertheless. She was in dink pew therefore, almost keep her
face hidden.

With friend who understand her (Mr did not name we accepted after averment) i learned that she had
go calm they found. She state, "it is worse that he should not have
die than it dwell me continued to be what i was far as bag would have
make i had-- axerophthol.

And
apologia were all like i accepted. It was at sky like my oldest and
dearest ally that vintage lure him exclaimed.

Heart set our mr, and are hitherto direct him said straight to death
than he had the craft was left with."

Oh, many sentences to trim and was contuse and part, throe!

What the shall compose? Is not few narration are sad darkly, advice?
Excessively further would i engineering, and it go worse and further
sharply into act; but dare had the bellow of encourage.

And off, out of a deepness of familiarisation, that i have convey in sorrow, feeling, suffering,
and him prevent it digest in countenance.



However, I persevered at it, and soon produced a recognizable imitation of Tom Madison's "Old
Dan Tucker." My success quite pleased me, and I became so absorbed that I quite lost account
of the time and place. There was no one to hear me save a bluejay which for an hour or more
kept me company. He sat on a twig just across the brook, cocking his head at me, and saucily
wagging his tail. Occasionally he would dart off among the trees crying shrilly; but his curiosity
would always get the better of him and back he would come again to try to solve the mystery
of this rival whistling, which I'm sure was as shrill and as harsh as his own.

Presently, quite to my astonishment, I saw a man standing near the brookside not a dozen paces
away from me. How long he had been there I don't know, for I had heard nothing of his coming.
Beyond him in the town road I could see the head of his horse and the top of his buggy. I said
not a word, but continued with my practising. Why shouldn't I? But it gave me quite a thrill
for the moment; and at once I began to think of the possibilities of the situation. What a
thing it was have so many unexpected and interesting situations developing! So I nodded my
head and tapped my foot, and blew into my whistle all the more energetically. I knew my visitor
could not possibly keep away. And he could not; presently he came nearer and said:

"What are you doing, neighbour?"

I continued a moment with my playing, but commanded him with my eye.

Oh, I assure you I assumed all the airs of a virtuoso. When I had finished my tune I removed
my whistle deliberately and wiped my lips.

"Why, enjoying myself," I replied with greatest good humour. "What are you doing?"

"Why," he said, "watching you enjoy yourself. I heard you playing as I passed in the road,
and couldn't imagine what it could be."

I told him I thought it might still be difficult, having heard me near at hand, to imagine
what it could be--and thus, tossing the ball of good-humoured repartee back and forth, we walked
down to the road together. He had a quiet old horse and a curious top buggy with the unmistakable
box of an agent or peddler built on behind.

"My name," he said, "is Canfield. I fight dust."

"And mine," I said, "is Grayson. I whistle."

I discovered that he was an agent for brushes, and he opened his box and showed me the greatest
assortment of big and little brushes: bristle brushes, broom brushes, yarn brushes, wire brushes,
brushes for man and brushes for beast, brushes of every conceivable size and shape that ever
I saw in all my life. He had out one of his especial pets--he called it his "leader"--and feeling
it familiarly in his hand he instinctively began the jargon of well-handled and voice-worn
phrases which went with that particular brush. It was just as though some one had touched a
button and had started him going. It was amazing to me that any one in the world should be
so much interested in mere brushes--until he actually began to make me feel that brushes were
as interesting as anything else!

What a strange, little, dried-up old fellow he was, with his balls of muttonchop sidewhiskers,
his thick eyebrows, and his lively blue eyes!--a man evidently not readily turned aside by
rebuffs. He had already shown that his wit as a talker had been sharpened by long and varied
contact with a world of reluctant purchasers. I was really curious to know more of him, so
I said finally:

"See here, Mr. Canfield, it's just noon. Why not sit down here with me and have a bit of luncheon?"

"Why not?" he responded with alacrity. "As the fellow said, why not?"

He unhitched his horse, gave him a drink from the brook, and then tethered him where he could
nip the roadside grass. I opened my bag and explored the wonders of Mrs. Stanley's luncheon.
I cannot describe the absolutely carefree feeling I had. Always at home, when I would have
liked to stop at the roadside with a stranger, I felt the nudge of a conscience troubled with
cows and corn, but here I could stop where I liked, or go on when I liked, and talk with whom
I pleased, as long as I pleased.

So we sat there, the brush-peddler and I, under the trees, and ate Mrs. Stanley's fine luncheon,
drank the clear water from the brook, and talked great talk. Compared with Mr. Canfield I was
a babe at wandering--and equally at talking. Was there any business he had not been in, or
any place in the country he had not visited? He had sold everything from fly-paper to threshing-machines,
he had picked up a large working knowledge of the weaknesses of human nature, and had arrived
at the age of sixty-six with just enough available cash to pay the manufacturer for a new supply
of brushes. In strict confidence, I drew certain conclusions from the colour of his nose! He
had once had a family, but dropped them somewhere along the road. Most of our brisk neighbours
would have put him down as a failure--an old man, and nothing laid by! But I wonder--I wonder.
One thing I am coming to learn in this world, and that is to let people haggle along with their
lives as I haggle along with mine.

We both made tremendous inroads on the luncheon, and I presume we might have sat there talking
all the afternoon if I had not suddenly bethought myself with a not unpleasant thrill that
my resting-place for the night was still gloriously undecided.

"Friend," I said, "I've got to be up and going. I haven't so much as a penny in my pocket,
and I've got to find a place to sleep."

The effect of this remark upon Mr. Canfield was magical. He threw up both his hands and cried out:

"You're that way, are you?"--as though for the first time he really understood. We were at
last on common ground.

"Partner," said he, "you needn't tell nothin' about it. I've been right there myself."

At once he began to bustle about with great enthusiasm. He was for taking complete charge of
me, and I think, if I had permitted it, would instantly have made a brush-agent of me. At least
he would have carried me along with him in his buggy; but when he suggested it I felt very
much, I think, as some old monk must have who had taken a vow to do some particular thing in
some particular way. With great difficulty I convinced him finally that my way was different
from his--though he was regally impartial as to what road he took next--and, finally, with
some reluctance, he started to climb into his buggy.

A thought, however, struck him suddenly, and he stepped down again, ran around to the box at
the back of his buggy, opened it with a mysterious and smiling look at me, and took out a small
broom-brush with which he instantly began brushing off my coat and trousers--in the liveliest
and most exuberant way. When he had finished this occupation, he quickly handed the brush to me.

"A token of esteem," he said, "from a fellow traveller."

I tried in vain to thank him, but he held up his hand, scrambled quickly into his buggy, and
was for driving off instantly, but paused and beckoned me toward him. When I approached the
buggy, he took hold of one the lapels of my coat, bent over, and said with the utmost seriousness:

"No man ought to take the road without a brush. A good broom-brush is the world's greatest
civilizer. Are you looking seedy or dusty?--why, this here brush will instantly make you a
respectable citizen. Take my word for it, friend, never go into any strange house without stoppin'
and brushin' off. It's money in your purse! You can get along without dinner sometimes, or
even without a shirt, but without a brush--never! There's nothin' in the world so necessary
to rich AN' poor, old AN' young as a good brush!"

And with a final burst of enthusiasm the brush-peddler drove off up the hill. I stood watching
him and when he turned around I waved the brush high over my head in token of a grateful farewell.

It was a good, serviceable, friendly brush. I carried it throughout my wanderings; and as I
sit here writing in my study, at this moment, I can see it hanging on a hook at the side of
my fireplace.

CHAPTER III. THE HOUSE BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD

"Everyone," remarks Tristram Shandy, "will speak of the fair as his own market has gone in it."

It came near being a sorry fair for me on the afternoon following my parting with the amiable
brush-peddler. The plain fact is, my success at the Stanleys', and the easy manner in which
I had fallen in with Mr. Canfield, gave me so much confidence in myself as a sort of Master
of the Road that I proceeded with altogether too much assurance.

I am firmly convinced that the prime quality to be cultivated by the pilgrim is humility of
spirit; he must be willing to accept Adventure in whatever garb she chooses to present herself.
He must be able to see the shining form of the unusual through the dull garments of the normal.

The fact is, I walked that afternoon with my head in air and passed many a pleasant farmstead
where men were working in the fields, and many an open doorway, and a mill or two, and a town--always
looking for some Great Adventure.

Somewhere upon this road, I thought to myself, I shall fall in with a Great Person, or become
a part of a Great Incident. I recalled with keen pleasure the experience of that young Spanish
student of Carlyle writes in one of his volumes, who, riding out from Madrid one day, came
unexpectedly upon the greatest man in the world. This great man, of whom Carlyle observes (I
have looked up the passage since I came home), "a kindlier, meeker, braver heart has seldom
looked upon the sky in this world," had ridden out from the city for the last time in his life
"to take one other look at the azure firmament and green mosaic pavements and the strange carpentry
and arras work of this noble palace of a world."

As the old story has it, the young student "came pricking on hastily, complaining that they
went at such a pace as gave him little chance of keeping up with them. One of the party made
answer that the blame lay with the horse of Don Miguel de Cervantes, whose trot was of the
speediest. He had hardly pronounced the name when the student dismounted and, touching the
hem of Cervantes' left sleeve, said, 'Yes, yes, it is indeed the maimed perfection, the all-famous,
the delightful writer, the joy and darling of the Muses! You are that brave Miguel.'"

It may seem absurd to some in this cool and calculating twentieth century that any one should
indulge in such vain imaginings as I have described--and yet, why not? All things are as we
see them. I once heard a man--a modern man, living to-day--tell with a hush in his voice, and
a peculiar light in his eye, how, walking in the outskirts of an unromantic town in New Jersey,
he came suddenly upon a vigorous, bearded, rather rough-looking man swinging his stick as he
walked, and stopping often at the roadside and often looking up at the sky. I shall never forget
the curious thrill in his voice as he said:

"And THAT was Walt Whitman."

And thus quite absurdly intoxicated by the possibilities of the road, I let the big full afternoon
slip by--I let slip the rich possibilities of half a hundred farms and scores of travelling
people--and as evening began to fall I came to a stretch of wilder country with wooded hills
and a dashing stream by the roadside. It was a fine and beautiful country--to look at--but
the farms, and with them the chances of dinner, and a friendly place to sleep, grew momentarily
scarcer. Upon the hills here and there, indeed, were to be seen the pretentious summer homes
of rich dwellers from the cities, but I looked upon them with no great hopefulness.

"Of all places in the world," I said to myself, "surely none could be more unfriendly to a
man like me."

But I amused myself with conjectures as to what might happen (until the adventure seemed almost
worth trying) if a dusty man with a bag on his back should appear at the door of one of those
well-groomed establishments. It came to me, indeed, with a sudden deep sense of understanding,
that I should probably find there, as everywhere else, just men and women. And with that I
fell into a sort of Socratic dialogue with myself:

ME: Having decided that the people in these houses are, after all, merely men and women, what
is the best way of reaching them?

MYSELF: Undoubtedly by giving them something they want and have not.

ME: But these are rich people from the city; what can they want that they have not?

MYSELF: Believe me, of all people in the world those who want the most are those who have the
most. These people are also consumed with desires.

ME: And what, pray, do you suppose they desire?

MYSELF: They want what they have not got; they want the unattainable: they want chiefly the
rarest and most precious of all things--a little mystery in their lives.

"That's it!" I said aloud; "that's it! Mystery--the things of the spirit, the things above
ordinary living--is not that the essential thing for which the world is sighing, and groaning,
and longing--consciously, or unconsciously?"

I have always believed that men in their innermost souls desire the highest, bravest, finest
things they can hear, or see, or feel in all the world. Tell a man how he can increase his
income and he will be grateful to you and soon forget you; but show him the highest, most mysterious
things in his own soul and give him the word which will convince him that the finest things
are really attainable, and he will love and follow you always.

I now began to look with much excitement to a visit at one of the houses on the hill, but to
my disappointment I found the next two that I approached still closed up, for the spring was
not yet far enough advanced to attract the owners to the country. I walked rapidly onward through
the gathering twilight, but with increasing uneasiness as to the prospects for the night, and
thus came suddenly upon the scene of an odd adventure.

From some distance I had seen a veritable palace set high among the trees and overlooking a
wonderful green valley--and, drawing nearer, I saw evidences of well-kept roadways and a visible
effort to make invisible the attempt to preserve the wild beauty of the place. I saw, or thought
I saw, people on the wide veranda, and I was sure I heard the snort of a climbing motor-car,
but I had scarcely decided to make my way up to the house when I came, at the turning of the
country road, upon a bit of open land laid out neatly as a garden, near the edge of which,
nestling among the trees, stood a small cottage. It seemed somehow to belong to the great estate
above it, and I concluded, at the first glance, that it was the home of some caretaker or gardener.

It was a charming place to see, and especially the plantation of trees and shrubs. My eye fell
instantly upon a fine magnolia--rare in this country--which had not yet cast all its blossoms,
and I paused for a moment to look at it more closely. I myself have tried to raise magnolias
near my house, and I know how difficult it is.

As I approached nearer to the cottage, I could see a man and woman sitting on the porch in
the twilight and swaying back and forth in rocking-chairs. I fancied--it may have been only
a fancy--that when I first saw them their hands were clasped as they rocked side by side.

It was indeed a charming little cottage. Crimson ramblers, giving promise of the bloom that
was yet to come, climbed over one end of the porch, and there were fine dark-leaved lilac-bushes
near the doorway: oh, a pleasant, friendly, quiet place!

I opened the front gate and walked straight in, as though I had at last reached my destination.
I cannot give any idea of the lift of the heart with which I entered upon this new adventure.
Without the premeditation and not knowing what I should say or do, I realized that everything
depended upon a few sentences spoken within the next minute or two. Believe me, this experience
to a man who does not know where his next meal is coming from, nor where he is to spend the
night, is well worth having. It is a marvellous sharpener of the facts.

I knew, of course, just how these people of the cottage would ordinarily regard an intruder
whose bag and clothing must infallibly class him as a follower of the road. And so many followers
of the road are--well--

As I came nearer, the man and woman stopped rocking, but said nothing. An old dog that had
been sleeping on the top step rose slowly and stood there.

"As I passed your garden," I said, grasping desperately for a way of approach, "I saw your
beautiful specimen of the magnolia tree--the one still in blossom. I myself have tried to grow
magnolias--but with small success--and I'm making bold to inquire what variety you are so successful
with."

It was a shot in the air--but I knew from what I had seen that they must be enthusiastic gardeners.
The man glanced around at the magnolia with evident pride, and was about to answer when the
woman rose and with a pleasant, quiet cordiality said:

"Won't you step up and have a chair?"

I swung my bag from my shoulder and took the proffered seat. As I did so I saw, on the table
just behind me a number magazines and books--books of unusual sizes and shapes, indicating
that they were not mere summer novels.

"They like books!" I said to myself, with a sudden rise of spirits.

"I have tried magnolias, too," said the man, "but this is the only one that has been really
successful. It is a Chinese white magnolia."

"The one Downing describes?" I asked.

This was also a random shot, but I conjectured that if they loved both books gardens they would
know Downing--Bible of the gardener. And if they did, we belonged to the same church.

"The very same," exclaimed the woman; "it was Downing's enthusiasm for the Chinese magnolia
which led us first to try it."

With that, like true disciples, we fell into great talk of Downing, at first all in praise
of him, and later--for may not the faithful be permitted latitude in their comments so long
as it is all within the cloister?--we indulged in a bit of higher criticism.

"It won't do," said the man, "to follow too slavishly every detail of practice as recommended
by Downing. We have learned a good many things since the forties."

"The fact is," I said, "no literal-minded man should be trusted with Downing."

"Any more than with the Holy Scriptures," exclaimed the woman.

"Exactly!" I responded with the greatest enthusiasm; "exactly! We go to him for inspiration,
for fundamental teachings, for the great literature and poetry of the art. Do you remember,"
I asked, "that passage in which Downing quotes from some old Chinaman upon the true secret
of the pleasures of a garden--?"

"Do we?" exclaimed the man, jumping up instantly; "do we? Just let me get the book--"

With that he went into the house and came back immediately bringing a lamp in one hand--for
it had grown pretty dark--and a familiar, portly, blue-bound book in the other. While he was
gone the woman said:

"You have touched Mr. Vedder in his weakest spot."

"I know of no combination in this world," said I, "so certain to produce a happy heart as good
books and a farm or garden."

Mr. Vedder, having returned, slipped on his spectacles, sat forward on the edge of his rocking-chair,
and opened the book with pious hands.

"I'll find it," he said. "I can put my finger right on it."

"You'll find it," said Mrs. Vedder, "in the chapter on 'Hedges.'"

"You are wrong, my dear," he responded, "it is in 'Mistakes of Citizens in Country Life.'"

He turned the leaves eagerly.

"No," he said, "here it is in 'Rural Taste.' Let me read you the passage, Mr.--"

"Grayson."

"--Mr. Grayson. The Chinaman's name was Lieu-tscheu. 'What is it,' asks this old Chinaman,
'that we seek in the pleasure of a garden? It has always been agreed that these plantations
should make men amends for living at a distance from what would be their more congenial and
agreeable dwelling-place--in the midst of nature, free and unrestrained.'"

"That's it," I exclaimed, "and the old Chinaman was right! A garden excuses civilization."

"It's what brought us here," said Mrs. Vedder.

With that we fell into the liveliest discussion of gardening and farming and country life in
all their phases, resolving that while there were bugs and blights, and droughts and floods,
yet upon the whole there was no life so completely satisfying as life in which one may watch
daily the unfolding of natural life.

A hundred things we talked about freely that had often risen dimly in my own mind almost to
the point--but not quite--of spilling over into articulate form. The marvellous thing about
good conversation is that it brings to birth so many half-realized thoughts of our own--besides
sowing the seed of innumerable other thought-plants. How they enjoyed their garden, those two,
and not only the garden itself, but all the lore and poetry of gardening!

We had been talking thus an hour or more when, quite unexpectedly, I had what was certainly
one of the most amusing adventures of my whole life. I can scarcely think of it now without
a thrill of pleasure. I have had pay for my work in many but never such a reward as this.

"By the way," said Mr. Vedder, "I have recently come across a book which is full of the spirit
of the garden as we have long known it, although the author is not treating directly of gardens,
but of farming and of human nature."

"It is really all one subject," I interrupted.

"Certainly," said Mr. Vedder, "but many gardeners are nothing but gardeners. Well, the book
to which I refer is called 'Adventures in Contentment,' and is by--Why, a man of your own name!"

With that Mr. Vedder reached for a book--a familiar-looking book--on the table, but Mrs. Vedder
looked at me. I give you my word, my heart turned entirely over, and in a most remarkable way
righted itself again; and I saw Roman candles and Fourth of July rockets in front of my eyes.
Never in all my experience was I so completely bowled over. I felt like a small boy who has
been caught in the pantry with one hand in the jam-pot--and plenty of jam on his nose. And
like that small boy I enjoyed the jam, but did not like being caught at it.

Mr. Vedder had no sooner got the book in his hand than I saw Mrs. Vedder rising as though she
had seen a spectre, and pointing dramatically at me, she exclaimed:

"You are David Grayson!"

I can say truthfully now that I know how the prisoner at the bar must feel when the judge,
leaning over his desk, looks at him sternly and says:

"I declare you guilty of the offence as charged, and sentence you--" and so on, and so on.

Mr. Vedder stiffened up, and I can see him yet looking at me through his glasses. I must have
looked as foolishly guilty as any man ever looked, for Mr. Vedder said promptly:

"Let me take you by the hand, sir. We know you, and have known you for a long time."

I shall not attempt to relate the conversation which followed, nor tell of the keen joy I had
in it--after the first cold plunge. We found that we had a thousand common interests and enthusiasms.
I had to tell them of my farm, and why I had left it temporarily, and of the experiences on
the road. No sooner had I related what had befallen me at the Stanleys' than Mrs. Vedder disappeared
into the house and came out again presently with a tray loaded with cold meat, bread, a pitcher
of fine milk, and other good things.

"I shall not offer any excuses," said I, "I'm hungry," and with that I laid in, Mr. Vedder
helping with the milk, and all three of us talking as fast as ever we could.

It was nearly midnight when at last Mr. Vedder led the way to the immaculate little bedroom
where I spent the night.

The next morning I awoke early, and quietly dressing, slipped down to the garden and walked
about among the trees and the shrubs and the flower-beds. The sun was just coming up over the
hill, the air was full of the fresh odours of morning, and the orioles and cat-birds were singing.

In the back of the garden I found a charming rustic arbour with seats
around a little table.
     Nay, but I have a sign,
     'Tis very sure God walks in mine.

I looked about after copying this verse, and said aloud:

"I like this garden: I like these Vedders."

And with that I had a moment of wild enthusiasm.

"I will come," I said, "and buy a little garden next them, and bring Harriet, and we will live
here always. What's a farm compared with a friend?"

But with that I thought of the Scotch preacher, and of Horace, and Mr. and Mrs. Starkweather,
and I knew I could never leave the friends at home.

"It's astonishing how many fine people there are in this world," I said aloud; "one can't escape
them!"

"Good morning, David Grayson," I heard some one saying, and glancing up I saw Mrs. Vedder at
the doorway. "Are you hungry?"

"I am always hungry," I said.

Mr. Vedder came out and linking his arm in mine and pointing out various spireas and Japanese
barberries, of which he was very proud, we walked into the house together.

I did not think of it especially at time--Harriet says I never see anything really worth while,
by which she means dishes, dresses, doilies, and such like but as I remembered afterward the
table that Mrs. Vedder set was wonderfully dainty--dainty not merely with flowers (with which
it was loaded), but with the quality of the china and silver. It was plainly the table of no
ordinary gardener or caretaker--but this conclusion did not come to me until afterward, for
as I remember it, we were in a deep discussion of fertilizers.

Mrs. Vedder cooked and served breakfast herself, and did it with a skill almost equal to Harriet's--so
skillfully that the talk went on and we never once heard the machinery of service.

After breakfast we all went out into the garden, Mrs. Vedder in an old straw hat and a big
apron, and Mr. Vedder in a pair of old brown overalls. Two men had appeared from somewhere,
and were digging in the vegetable garden. After giving them certain directions Mr. Vedder and
I both found five-tined forks and went into the rose garden and began turning over the rich
soil, while Mrs. Vedder, with pruning-shears, kept near us, cutting out the dead wood.

It was one of the charming forenoons of my life. This pleasant work, spiced with the most interesting
conversation and interrupted by a hundred little excursions into other parts of the garden,
to see this or that wonder of vegetation, brought us to dinner-time before we fairly knew it.

About the middle of the afternoon I made the next discovery. I heard first the choking cough
of a big motor-car in the country road, and a moment later it stopped at our gate. I thought
I saw the Vedders exchanging significant glances. A number of merry young people tumbled out,
and an especially pretty girl of about twenty came running through the garden.

"Mother," she exclaimed, "you MUST come with us!"

"I can't, I can't," said Mrs. Vedder, "the roses MUST be pruned--and see! The azaleas are coming
into bloom."

With that she presented me to her daughter.

And, then, shortly, for it could no longer be concealed, I learned that Mr. and Mrs. Vedder
were not the caretakers but the owners of the estate and of the great house I had seen on the
hill. That evening, with an air almost of apology, they explained to me how it all came about.

"We first came out here," said Mrs. Vedder, "nearly twenty years ago, and built the big house
on the hill. But the more we came to know of country life the more we wanted to get down into
it. We found it impossible up there--so many unnecessary things to see to and care for--and
we couldn't--we didn't see--"

"The fact is," Mr. Vedder put in, "we were losing touch with each other."

"There is nothing like a big house," said Mrs. Vedder, "to separate a man and his wife."

"So we came down here," said Mr. Vedder, "built this little cottage, and developed this garden
mostly with our own hands. We would have sold the big house long ago if it hadn't been for
our friends. They like it."

"I have never heard a more truly romantic story," said I.

And it WAS romantic: these fine people escaping from too many possessions, too much property,
to the peace and quietude of a garden where they could be lovers again.

"It seems, sometimes," said Mrs. Vedder, "that I never really believed in God until we came
down here--"

"I saw the verse on the table in the arbour," said I.

"And it is true," said Mr. Vedder. "We got a long, long way from God for many years: here we
seem to get back to Him."

I had fully intended to take the road again that afternoon, but how could any one leave such
people as those? We talked again late that night, but the next morning, at the leisurely Sunday
breakfast, I set my hour of departure with all the firmness I could command. I left them, indeed,
before ten o'clock that forenoon. I shall never forget the parting. They walked with me to
the top of the hill, and there we stopped and looked back. We could see the cottage half hidden
among the trees, and the little opening that the precious garden made. For a time we stood
there quite silent.

"Do you remember," I said presently, "that character in Homer who was a friend of men and lived
in a house by the side of the road? I shall always think of you as friends of men--you took
in a dusty traveller. And I shall never forget your house by the side of the road."

"The House by the Side of the Road--you have christened it anew, David Grayson," exclaimed
Mrs. Vedder.

And so we parted like old friends, and I left them to return to their garden, where "'tis very
sure God walks."

CHAPTER IV. I AM THE SPECTATOR OF A MIGHTY BATTLE, IN WHICH CHRISTIAN MEETS APPOLLYON

It is one of the prime joys of the long road that no two days are ever remotely alike--no two
hours even; and sometimes a day that begins calmly will end with the most stirring events.

It was thus, indeed, with that perfect spring Sunday, when I left my friends, the Vedders,
and turned my face again to the open country. It began as quietly as any Sabbath morning of
my life, but what an end it had! I would have travelled a thousand miles for the adventures
which a bounteous road that day spilled carelessly into my willing hands.

I can give no adequate reason why it should be so, but there are Sunday mornings in the spring--at
least in our country--which seem to put on, like a Sabbath garment, an atmosphere of divine
quietude. Warm, soft, clear, but, above all, immeasurably serene.

Such was that Sunday morning; and I was no sooner well afoot than I yielded to the ingratiating
mood of the day. Usually I am an active walker, loving the sense of quick motion and the stir
it imparts to both body and mind, but that morning I found myself loitering, looking widely
about me, and enjoying the lesser and quieter aspects of nature. It was a fine wooded country
in which I found myself, and I soon struck off the beaten road and took to the forest and the
fields. In places the ground was almost covered with meadow-rue, like green shadows on the
hillsides, not yet in seed, but richly umbrageous. In the long green grass of the meadows shone
the yellow star-flowers, and the sweet-flags were blooming along the marshy edges of the ponds.
The violets had disappeared, but they were succeeded by wild geraniums and rank-growing vetches.

I remember that I kept thinking from time to time, all the forenoon, as my mind went back swiftly
and warmly to the two fine friends from whom I had so recently parted:

How the Vedders would enjoy this! Or, I must tell the Vedders that. And two or three times
I found myself in animated conversations with them in which I generously supplied all three
parts. It may be true for some natures, as Leonardo said, that "if you are alone you belong
wholly to yourself; if you have a companion, you belong only half to yourself"; but it is certainly
not so with me. With me friendship never divides: it multiplies. A friend always makes me more
than I am, better than I am, bigger than I am. We two make four, or fifteen, or forty.

Well, I loitered through the fields and woods for a long time that Sunday forenoon, not knowing
in the least that Chance held me close by the hand and was leading me onward to great events.
I knew, of course, that I had yet to find a place for the night, and that this might be difficult
on Sunday, and yet I spent that forenoon as a man spends his immortal youth--with a glorious
disregard for the future.

Some time after noon--for the sun was high and the day was growing much warmer--I turned from
the road, climbed an inviting little hill, and chose a spot in an old meadow in the shade of
an apple tree and there I lay down on the grass, and looked up into the dusky shadows of the
branches above me. I could feel the soft airs on my face; I could hear the buzzing of bees
in the meadow flowers, and by turning my head just a little I could see the slow fleecy clouds,
high up, drifting across the perfect blue of the sky. And the scent of the fields in spring!--he
who has known it, even once, may indeed die happy.

Men worship God in various ways: it seemed to me that Sabbath morning, as I lay quietly there
in the warm silence of midday, that I was truly worshipping God. That Sunday morning everything
about me seemed somehow to be a miracle--a miracle gratefully accepted and explainable only
by the presence of God. There was another strange, deep feeling which I had that morning, which
I have had a few other times in my life at the rare heights of experience--I hesitate always
when I try to put down the deep, deep things of the human heart--a feeling immeasurably real,
that if I should turn my head quickly I should indeed SEE that Immanent Presence....

One of the few birds I know that sings through the long midday is the vireo. The vireo sings
when otherwise the woods are still. You do not see him; you cannot find him; but you know he
is there. And his singing is wild, and shy, and mystical. Often it haunts you like the memory
of some former happiness. That day I heard the vireo singing....

I don't know how long I lay there under the tree in the meadow, but presently I heard, from
no great distance, the sound of a church-bell. It was ringing for the afternoon service which
among the farmers of this part of the country often takes the place, in summer, of both morning
and evening services.

"I believe I'll go," I said, thinking first of all, I confess, of the interesting people I
might meet there.

But when I sat up and looked about me the desire faded, and rummaging in my bag I came across
my tin whistle. Immediately I began practising a tune called "Sweet Afton," which I had learned
when a boy; and, as I played, my mood changed swiftly, and I began to smile at myself as a
tragically serious person, and to think of pat phrases with which to characterize the execrableness
of my attempts upon the tin whistle. I should have liked some one near to joke with.

Long ago I made a motto about boys: Look for a boy anywhere. Never be surprised when you shake
a cherry tree if a boy drops out of it; never be disturbed when you think yourself in complete
solitude if you discover a boy peering out at you from a fence corner.

I had not been playing long before I saw two boys looking at me from out of a thicket by the
roadside; and a moment later two others appeared.

Instantly I switched into "Marching Through Georgia," and began to nod my head and tap my toe
in the liveliest fashion. Presently one boy climbed up on the fence, then another, then a third.
I continued to play. The fourth boy, a little chap, ventured to climb up on the fence.

They were bright-faced, tow-headed lads, all in Sunday clothes.

"It's hard luck," said I, taking my whistle from my lips, "to have to wear shoes and stockings
on a warm Sunday like this."

"You bet it is!" said the bold leader.

"In that case," said I, "I will play 'Yankee Doodle.'"

I played. All the boys, including the little chap, came up around me, and two of them sat down
quite familiarly on the grass. I never had a more devoted audience. I don't know what interesting
event might have happened next, for the bold leader, who stood nearest, was becoming dangerously
inflated with questions--I don't know what might have happened had we not been interrupted
by the appearance of a Spectre in Black. It appeared before us there in the broad daylight
in the middle of a sunny afternoon while we were playing "Yankee Doodle." First I saw the top
of a black hat rising over the rim of the hill. This was followed quickly by a black tie, a
long black coat, black trousers, and, finally, black shoes. I admit I was shaken, but being
a person of iron nerve in facing such phenomena, I continued to play "Yankee Doodle." In spite
of this counter-attraction, toward which all four boys turned uneasy glances, I held my audience.
The Black Spectre, with a black book under its arm, drew nearer. Still I continued to play
and nod my head and tap my toe. I felt like some modern Pied Piper piping away the children
of these modern hills--piping them away from older people who could not understand them.

I could see an accusing look on the Spectre's face. I don't know what put it into my head,
and I had no sooner said it than I was sorry for my levity, but the figure with the sad garments
there in the matchless and triumphant spring day affected me with a curious, sharp impatience.
Had any one the right to look out so dolefully upon such a day and such a scene of simple happiness
as this? So I took my whistle from my lips and asked:

"Is God dead?"

I shall never forget the indescribable look of horror and astonishment that swept over the
young man's face.

"What do you mean, sir?" he asked with an air of stern authority which surprised me. His calling
for the moment lifted him above himself: it was the Church which spoke.

I was on my feet in an instant, regretting the pain I had given him; and yet it seemed worth
while now, having made my inadvertent remark, to show him frankly what lay in my mind. Such
things sometimes help men.

"I meant no offence, sir," I said, "and I apologize for my flummery, but when I saw you coming
up the hill, looking so gloomy and disconsolate on this bright day, as though you disapproved
of God's world, the question slipped out before I knew it."

My words evidently struck deep down into some disturbed inner consciousness, for he asked--and
his words seemed to slip out before he thought:

"Is THAT the way I impressed you?"

I found my heart going out strongly toward him. "Here," I thought to myself, "is a man in trouble."

I took a good long look at him. He still a young man, though worn-looking--and sad as I now
saw it, rather than gloomy--with the sensitive lips and the unworldly look one sees sometimes
in the faces of saints. His black coat was immaculately neat, but the worn button-covers and
the shiny lapels told their own eloquent story. Oh, it seemed to me I knew him as well as if
every incident of his life were written plainly upon his high, pale forehead! I have lived
long in a country neighbourhood, and I knew him--poor flagellant of the rural church--I knew
how he groaned under the sins of a Community too comfortably willing to cast all its burdens
on the Lord, or on the Lord's accredited local representative. I inferred also the usual large
family and the low salary (scandalously unpaid) and the frequent moves from place to place.

Unconsciously heaving a sigh the young man turned partly aside and said to me in a low, gentle
voice:

"You are detaining my boys from church."

"I am very sorry," I said, "and I will detain them no longer," and with that I put aside my
whistle, took up my bag and moved down the hill with them.

"The fact is," I said, "when I heard your bell I thought of going to church myself."

"Did you?" he asked eagerly. "Did you?"

I could see that my proposal of going to church had instantly affected his spirits. Then he
hesitated abruptly with a sidelong glance at my bag and rusty clothing. I could see exactly
what was passing in his mind.

"No," I said, smiling, as though answering a spoken question, "I am not exactly what you would
call a tramp."

He flushed.

"I didn't mean--I WANT you to come. That's what a church is for. If I thought--"

But he did not tell me what he thought; and, though he walked quietly at my side, he was evidently
deeply disturbed. Something of his discouragement I sensed even then, and I don't think I was
ever sorrier for a man in my life than I was for him at that moment. Talk about the suffering
sinners! I wonder if they are to be compared with the trials of the saints?

So we approached the little white church, and caused, I am certain, a tremendous sensation.
Nowhere does the unpredictable, the unusual, excite such confusion as in that settled institution--the
church.

I left my bag in the vestibule, where I have no doubt it was the object of much inquiring and
suspicious scrutiny, and took my place in a convenient pew. It was a small church with an odd
air of domesticity, and the proportion of old ladies and children in the audience was pathetically
large. As a ruddy, vigorous, out-of-door person, with the dust of life upon him, I felt distinctly
out of place.

I could pick out easily the Deacon, the Old Lady Who Brought Flowers, the President of the
Sewing Circle, and, above all, the Chief Pharisee, sitting in his high place. The Chief Pharisee--his
name I learned was Nash, Mr. J. H. Nash (I did not know then that I was soon to make his acquaintance)--the
Chief Pharisee looked as hard as nails, a middle-aged man with stiff chin-whiskers, small round,
sharp eyes, and a pugnacious jaw.

"That man," said I to myself, "runs this church," and instantly I found myself looking upon
him as a sort of personification of the troubles I had seen in the minister's eyes.

I shall not attempt to describe the service in detail. There was a discouraging droop and quaver
in the singing, and the mournful-looking deacon who passed the collection-plate seemed inured
to disappointment. The prayer had in it a note of despairing appeal which fell like a cold
hand upon one's living soul. It gave one the impression that this was indeed a miserable, dark,
despairing world, which deserved to be wrathfully destroyed, and that this miserable world
was full of equally miserable, broken, sinful, sickly people.

The sermon was a little better, for somewhere hidden within him this pale young man had a spark
of the divine fire, but it was so dampened by the atmosphere of the church that it never rose
above a pale luminosity.

I found the service indescribably depressing. I had an impulse to rise up and cry out--almost
anything to shock these people into opening their eyes upon real life. Indeed, though I hesitate
about setting it down here, I was filled for some time with the liveliest imaginings of the
following serio-comic enterprise:

I would step up the aisle, take my place in front of the Chief Pharisee, wag my finger under
his nose, and tell him a thing or two about the condition of the church.

"The only live thing here," I would tell him, "is the spark in that pale minister's soul; and
you're doing your best to smother that."

And I fully made up my mind that when he answered back in his chief-pharisaical way I would
gently--but firmly remove him from his seat, shake him vigorously two or three times (men's
souls have often been saved with less!), deposit him flat in the aisle, and yes--stand on him
while I elucidated the situation to the audience at large. While I confined this amusing and
interesting project to the humours of the imagination I am still convinced that something of
the sort would have helped enormously in clearing up the religious and moral atmosphere of
the place.

I had a wonderful sensation of relief when at last I stepped out again into the clear afternoon
sunshine and got a reviving glimpse of the smiling green hills and the quiet fields and the
sincere trees--and felt the welcome of the friendly road.

I would have made straight for the hills, but the thought of that pale minister held me back;
and I waited quietly there under the trees till he came out. He was plainly looking for me,
and asked me to wait and walk along with him, at which his four boys, whose acquaintance I
had made under such thrilling circumstances earlier in the day, seemed highly delighted, and
waited with me under the tree and told me a hundred important things about a certain calf,
a pig, a kite, and other things at home.

Arriving at the minister's gate, I was invited in with a whole-heartedness that was altogether
charming. The minister's wife, a faded-looking woman who had once possessed a delicate sort
of prettiness, was waiting for us on the steps with a fine chubby baby on her arm--number five.

The home was much the sort of place I had imagined--a small house undesirably located (but
cheap!), with a few straggling acres of garden and meadow upon which the minister and his boys
were trying with inexperienced hands to piece out their inadequate living. At the very first
glimpse of the garden I wanted to throw off my coat and go at it.

And yet--and yet----what a wonderful thing love is! There was, after all, something incalculable,
something pervasively beautiful about this poor household. The moment the minister stepped
inside his own door he became a different and livelier person. Something boyish crept into
his manner, and a new look came into the eyes of his faded wife that made her almost pretty
again. And the fat, comfortable baby rolled and gurgled about on the floor as happily as though
there had been two nurses and a governess to look after him. As for the four boys, I have never
seen healthier or happier ones.

I sat with them at their Sunday-evening luncheon. As the minister bowed his head to say grace
I felt him clasp my hand on one side while the oldest boy clasped my hand on the other, and
thus, linked together, and accepting the stranger utterly, the family looked up to God.

There was a fine, modest gayety about the meal. In front of Mrs. Minister stood a very large
yellow bowl filled with what she called rusk--a preparation unfamiliar to me, made by browning
and crushing the crusts of bread and then rolling them down into a coarse meal. A bowl of this,
with sweet, rich, yellow milk (for they kept their own cow), made one of the most appetizing
dishes that ever I ate. It was downright good: it gave one the unalloyed aroma of the sweet
new milk and the satisfying taste of the crisp bread.

Nor have I ever enjoyed a more perfect hospitality. I have been in many a richer home where
there was not a hundredth part of the true gentility--the gentility of unapologizing simplicity
and kindness.

And after it was over and cleared away--the minister himself donning a long apron and helping
his wife--and the chubby baby put to bed, we all sat around the table in the gathering twilight.

I think men perish sometimes from sheer untalked talk. For lack of a creative listener they
gradually fill up with unexpressed emotion. Presently this emotion begins to ferment, and finally--bang!--they
blow up, burst, disappear in thin air. In all that community I suppose there was no one but
the little faded wife to whom the minister dared open his heart, and I think he found me a
godsend. All I really did was to look from one to the other and put in here and there an inciting
comment or ask an understanding question. After he had told me his situation and the difficulties
which confronted him and his small church, he exclaimed suddenly:

"A minister should by rights be a leader, not only inside of his church, but outside it in
the community."

"You are right," I exclaimed with great earnestness; "you are right."

And with that I told him of our own Scotch preacher and how he led and moulded our community;
and as I talked I could see him actually growing, unfolding, under my eyes.

"Why," said I, "you not only ought to be the moral leader of this community, but you are!"

"That's what I tell him," exclaimed his wife.

"But he persists in thinking, doesn't he, that he is a poor sinner?"

"He thinks it too much," she laughed.

"Yes, yes," he said, as much to himself as to us, "a minister ought to be a fighter!"

It was beautiful, the boyish flush which now came into his face and the light that came into
his eyes. I should never have identified him with the Black Spectre of the afternoon.

"Why," said I, "you ARE a fighter; you're fighting the greatest battle in the world today--the
only real battle--the battle for the spiritual view of life."

Oh, I knew exactly what was the trouble with his religion--at least the religion which, under
the pressure of that church he felt obliged to preach! It was the old, groaning, denying, resisting
religion. It was the sort of religion which sets a man apart and assures him that the entire
universe in the guise of the Powers of Darkness is leagued against him. What he needed was
a reviving draught of the new faith which affirms, accepts, rejoices, which feels the universe
triumphantly behind it. And so whenever the minister told me what he ought to be--for he too
sensed the new impulse--I merely told him he was just that. He needed only this little encouragement
to unfold.

"Yes," said he again, "I am the real moral leader here."

At this I saw Mrs. Minister nodding her head vigorously.

"It's you," she said, "and not Mr. Nash, who should lead this community."

How a woman loves concrete applications. She is your only true pragmatist. If a philosophy
will not work, says she, why bother with it?

The minister rose quickly from his chair, threw back his head, and strode quickly up and down
the room.

"You are right," said he; "and I WILL lead it. I'll have my farmers' meetings as I planned."

It may have been the effect of the lamplight, but it seemed to me that little Mrs. Minister,
as she glanced up at him, looked actually pretty.

The minister continued to stride up and down the room with his chin in the air.

"Mr. Nash," said she in a low voice to me, "is always trying to hold him down and keep him
back. My husband WANTS to do the great things"--wistfully.

"By every right," the minister was repeating, quite oblivious of our presence, "I should lead
these people."

"He sees the weakness of the church," she continued, "as well as any one, and he wants to start
some vigorous community work--have agricultural meetings and boys' clubs, and lots of things
like that--but Mr. Nash says it is no part of a minister's work: that it cheapens religion.
He says that when a parson--Mr. Nash always calls him parson, and I just LOATHE that name--has
preached, and prayed, and visited the sick, that's enough for HIM."

At this very moment a step sounded upon the walk, and an instant later a figure appeared in
the doorway.

"Why, Mr. Nash," exclaimed little Mrs. Minister, exhibiting that astonishing gift of swift
recovery which is the possession of even the simplest women, "come right in."

It was some seconds before the minister could come down from the heights and greet Mr. Nash.
As for me, I was never more interested in my life.

"Now," said I to myself, "we shall see Christian meet Apollyon."

As soon as Mrs. Minister lighted the lamp I was introduced to the great man. He looked at me
sharply with his small, round eyes, and said:

"Oh, you are the--the man who was in church this afternoon."

I admitted it, and he looked around at the minister with an accusing expression. He evidently
did not approve of me, nor could I wholly blame him, for I knew well how he, as a rich farmer,
must look upon a rusty man of the road like me. I should have liked dearly to cross swords
with him myself, but greater events were imminent.

In no time at all the discussion, which had evidently been broken off at some previous meeting,
concerning the proposed farmers' assembly at the church, had taken on a really lively tone.
Mr. Nash was evidently in the somewhat irritable mood with which important people may sometimes
indulge themselves, for he bit off his words in a way that was calculated to make any but an
unusually meek and saintly man exceedingly uncomfortable. But the minister, with the fine,
high humility of those whose passion is for great or true things, was quite oblivious to the
harsh words. Borne along by an irresistible enthusiasm, he told in glowing terms what his plan
would mean to the community, how the people needed a new social and civic spirit--a "neighbourhood
religious feeling" he called it. And as he talked his face flushed, and his eyes shone with
the pure fire of a great purpose. But I could see that all this enthusiasm impressed the practical
Mr. Nash as mere moonshine. He grew more and more uneasy. Finally he brought his hand down
with a resounding thwack upon his knee, and said in a high, cutting voice:

"I don't believe in any such newfangled nonsense. It ain't none of a parson's business what
the community does. You're hired, ain't you, an' paid to run the church? That's the end of
it. We ain't goin' to have any mixin' of religion an' farmin' in THIS neighbourhood."

My eyes were on the pale man of God. I felt as though a human soul were being weighed in the
balance. What would he do now? What was he worth REALLY as a man as well as a minister?

He paused a moment with downcast eyes. I saw little Mrs. Minister glance at him--once--wistfully.
He rose from his place, drew himself up to his full height--I shall not soon forget the look
on his face--and uttered these amazing words:

"Martha, bring the ginger-jar."

Mrs. Minister, without a word, went to a little cupboard on the farther side of the room and
took down a brown earthenware jar, which she brought over and placed on the table, Mr. Nash
following her movements with astonished eyes. No one spoke.

The minister took the jar in his hands as he might the communion-cup just before saying the
prayer of the sacrament.

"Mr. Nash," said he in a loud voice, "I've decided to hold that farmers' meeting."

Before Mr. Nash could reply the minister seated himself and was pouring out the contents of
the jar upon the table--a clatter of dimes, nickels, pennies, a few quarters and half dollars,
and a very few bills.

"Martha, just how much money is there?"

"Twenty-four dollars and sixteen cents."

The minister put his hand into his pocket and, after counting out certain coins, said:

"Here's one dollar and eighty-four cents more. That makes twenty-six dollars. Now, Mr. Nash,
you're the largest contributor to my salary in this neighbourhood. You gave twenty-six dollars
last year--fifty cents a week. It is a generous contribution, but I cannot take it any longer.
It is fortunate that my wife has saved up this money to buy a sewing-machine, so that we can
pay back your contribution in full."

He paused; no one of us spoke a word.

"Mr. Nash," he continued, and his face was good to see, "I am the minister here. I am convinced
that what the community needs is more of a religious and social spirit, and I am going about
getting it in the way the Lord leads me."

At this I saw Mrs. Minister look up at her husband with such a light in her eyes as any man
might well barter his life for--I could not keep my own eyes from pure beauty of it.

I knew too what this defiance meant. It meant that this little family was placing its all upon
the altar--even the pitiful coins for which they had skimped and saved for months for a particular
purpose. Talk of the heroism of the men who charged with Pickett at Gettysburg! Here was a
courage higher and whiter than that; here was a courage that dared to fight alone.

As for Mr. Nash, the face of that Chief Pharisee was a study. Nothing is so paralyzing to a
rich man as to find suddenly that his money will no longer command him any advantage. Like
all hard-shelled, practical people, Mr. Nash could only dominate in a world which recognized
the same material supremacy that he recognized. Any one who insisted upon flying was lost to
Mr. Nash.

The minister pushed the little pile of coins toward him.

"Take it, Mr. Nash," said he.

At that Mr. Nash rose hastily.

"I will not," he said gruffly.

He paused, and looked at the minister with a strange expression in his small round eyes--was
it anger, or was it fear, or could it have been admiration?

"If you want to waste your time on fiddlin' farmers' meetings--a man that knows as little of
farmin' as you do--why go ahead for all o' me. But don't count me in."

He turned, reached for his hat, and then went out of the door into the darkness.

For a moment we all sat perfectly silent, then the minister rose, and said solemnly:

"Martha, let's sing something."

Martha crossed the room to the cottage organ and seated herself on the stool.

"What shall we sing?" said she.

"Something with fight in it, Martha," he responded; "something with plenty of fight in it."

So we sang "Onward, Christian Soldier, Marching as to War," and followed up with:

Awake, my soul, stretch every nerve And press with rigour on; A heavenly race demands thy zeal
And an immortal crown.

When we had finished, and as Martha rose from her seat, the minister impulsively put his hands
on her shoulders, and said:

"Martha, this is the greatest night of my life."

He took a turn up and down the room, and then with an exultant boyish laugh said:

"We'll go to town to-morrow and pick out that sewing-machine!"

I remained with them that night and part of the following day, taking a hand with them in the
garden, but of the events of that day I shall speak in another chapter.

CHAPTER V. I PLAY THE PART OF A SPECTACLE PEDDLER

Yesterday was exactly the sort of a day I love best--a spicy, unexpected, amusing day--crowned
with a droll adventure.

I cannot account for it, but it seems to me I take the road each morning with a livelier mind
and keener curiosity. If you were to watch me narrowly these days you would see I am slowly
shedding my years. I suspect that some one of the clear hill streams from which I have been
drinking (lying prone on my face) was in reality the fountain of eternal youth. I shall not
go back to see.

It seems to me, when I feel like this, that in every least thing upon the roadside, or upon
the hill, lurks the stuff of adventure. What a world it is! A mile south of here I shall find
all that Stanley found in the jungles of Africa; a mile north I am Peary at the Pole!

You there, brown-clad farmer on the tall seat of your wagon, driving townward with a red heifer
for sale, I can show you that life--your life--is not all a gray smudge, as you think it is,
but crammed, packed, loaded with miraculous things. I can show you wonders past belief in your
own soul. I can easily convince you that you are in reality a poet, a hero, a true lover, a saint.

It is because we are not humble enough in the presence of the divine daily fact that adventure
knocks so rarely at our door. A thousand times I have had to learn this truth (what lesson
so hard to learn as the lesson of humility!) and I suppose I shall have to learn it a thousand
times more. This very day, straining my eyes to see the distant wonders of the mountains, I
nearly missed a miracle by the roadside.

Soon after leaving the minister and his family--I worked with them in their garden with great
delight most of the forenoon--I came, within a mile--to the wide white turnpike--the Great Road.

Now, I usually prefer the little roads, the little, unexpected, curving, leisurely country
roads. The sharp hills, the pleasant deep valleys, the bridges not too well kept, the verdure
deep grown along old fences, the houses opening hospitably at the very roadside, all these
things I love. They come to me with the same sort of charm and flavour, only vastly magnified,
which I find often in the essays of the older writers--those leisurely old fellows who took
time to write, REALLY write. The important thing to me about a road, as about life--and literature,
is not that it goes anywhere, but that it is livable while it goes. For if I were to arrive--and
who knows that I ever shall arrive?--I think I should be no happier than I am here.

Thus I have commonly avoided the Great White Road--the broad, smooth turnpike--rock-bottomed
and rolled by a State--without so much as a loitering curve to whet one's curiosity, nor a
thank-you-ma'am to laugh over, nor a sinful hill to test your endurance--not so much as a dreamy
valley! It pursues its hard, unshaded, practical way directly from some particular place to
some other particular place and from time to time a motor-car shoots in at one end of it and
out at the other, leaving its dust to settle upon quiet travellers like me.

Thus to-day when I came to the turnpike I was at first for making straight across it and taking
to the hills beyond, but at that very moment a motor-car whirled past me as I stood there and
a girl with a merry face waved her hand at me. I lifted my hat in return--and as I watched
them out of sight I felt a curious new sense of warmth and friendliness there in the Great Road.

"These are just people, too," I said aloud--"and maybe they really like it!"

And with that I began laughing at myself, and at the whole, big, amazing, interesting world.
Here was I pitying them for their benighted state, and there were they, no doubt, pitying me
for mine!

And with that pleasant and satisfactory thought in my mind and a song in my throat I swung
into the Great Road.

"It doesn't matter in the least," said I to myself, "whether a man takes hold of life by the
great road or the little ones so long as he takes hold."

And oh, it was a wonderful day! A day with movement in it; a day that flowed! In every field
the farmers were at work, the cattle fed widely in the meadows, and the Great Road itself was
alive with a hundred varied sorts of activity. Light winds stirred the tree-tops and rippled
in the new grass; and from the thickets I heard the blackbirds crying. Everything animate and
inanimate, that morning, seemed to have its own clear voice and to cry out at me for my interest,
or curiosity, or sympathy. Under such circumstances it could not have been long--nor was it
long--before I came plump upon the first of a series of odd adventures.

A great many people, I know, abominate the roadside sign. It seems to them a desecration of
nature, the intrusion of rude commercialism upon the perfection of natural beauty. But not
I. I have no such feeling. Oh, the signs in themselves are often rude and unbeautiful, and
I never wished my own barn or fences to sing the praises of swamp root or sarsaparilla--and
yet there is something wonderfully human about these painted and pasted vociferations of the
roadside signs; and I don't know why they are less "natural" in their way than a house or barn
or a planted field of corn. They also tell us about life. How eagerly they cry out at us, "Buy
me, buy me!" What enthusiasm they have in their own concerns, what boundless faith in themselves!
How they speak of the enormous energy, activity, resourcefulness of human kind!

Indeed, I like all kinds of signs. The autocratic warnings of the road, the musts and the must-nots
of traffic, I observe in passing; and I often stand long at the crossings and look up at the
finger-posts, and consider my limitless wealth as a traveller. By this road I may, at my own
pleasure, reach the Great City; by that--who knows?--the far wonders of Cathay. And I respond
always to the appeal which the devoted pilgrim paints on the rocks at the roadside: "Repent
ye, for the kingdom of God is at hand," and though I am certain that the kingdom of God is
already here, I stop always and repent--just a little--knowing that there is always room for
it. At the entrance of the little towns, also, or in the squares of the villages, I stop often
to read the signs of taxes assessed, or of political meetings; I see the evidences of homes
broken up in the notices of auction sales, and of families bereaved in the dry and formal publications
of the probate court. I pause, too, before the signs of amusements flaming red and yellow on
the barns (boys, the circus is coming to town!), and I pause also, but no longer, to read the
silent signs carved in stone in the little cemeteries as I pass. Symbols, you say? Why, they're
the very stuff of life. If you cannot see life here in the wide road, you will never see it at all.

Well, I saw a sign yesterday at the roadside that I never saw anywhere before. It was not a
large sign--indeed rather inconspicuous--consisting of a single word rather crudely painted
in black (as by an amateur) upon a white board. It was nailed to a tree where those in swift
passing cars could not avoid seeing it:

[ REST ]

I cannot describe the odd sense of enlivenment, of pleasure I had when I saw this new sign.

"Rest!" I exclaimed aloud. "Indeed I will," and I sat down on a stone not far away.

"Rest!"

What a sign for this very spot! Here in the midst of the haste and hurry of the Great Road
a quiet voice was saying, "Rest." Some one with imagination, I thought, evidently put that
up; some quietist offering this mild protest against the breathless progress of the age. How
often I have felt the same way myself--as though I were being swept onward through life faster
than I could well enjoy it. For nature passes the dishes far more rapidly than we can help
ourselves.

Or perhaps, thought I, eagerly speculating, this may be only some cunning advertiser with rest
for sale (in these days even rest has its price), thus piquing the curiosity of the traveller
for the disclosure which he will make a mile or so farther on. Or else some humourist wasting
his wit upon the Fraternity of the Road, too willing (like me, perhaps) to accept his ironical
advice. But it would be well worth while should I find him, to see him chuckle behind his hand.

So I sat there very much interested, for a long time, even framing a rather amusing picture
in my own mind of the sort of person who painted these signs, deciding finally that he must
be a zealot rather than a trader or humourist. (Confidentially, I could not make a picture
of him in which he was not endowed with plentiful long hair). As I walked onward again, I decided
that in any guise I should like to see him, and I enjoyed thinking what I should say if I met
him. A mile farther up the road I saw another sign exactly like the first.

"Here he is again," I said exultantly, and that sign being somewhat nearer the ground I was
able to examine it carefully front and back, but it bore no evidence of its origin.

In the next few miles I saw two other signs with nothing on them but the word "Rest."

Now this excellent admonition--like much of the excellent admonitions in this world--affected
me perversely: it made me more restless than ever. I felt that I could not rest properly until
I found out who wanted me to rest, and why. It opened indeed a limitless vista for new adventure.

Presently, away ahead of me in the road, I saw a man standing near a one-horse wagon. He seemed
to be engaged in some activity near the roadside, but I could not tell exactly what. As I hastened
nearer I discovered that he was a short, strongly built, sun-bronzed man in working-clothes--and
with the shortest of short hair. I saw him take a shovel from the wagon and begin digging.
He was the road-worker.

I asked the road-worker if he had seen the curious signs. He looked up at me with a broad smile
(he had good-humoured, very bright blue eyes).

"Yes," he said, "but they ain't for me."

"Then you don't follow the advice they give?"

"Not with a section like mine," said he, and he straightened up and looked first one way of
the road and then the other. "I have from Grabow Brook, but not the bridge, to the top o' Sullivan
Hill, and all the culverts between, though two of 'em are by rights bridges. And I claim that's
a job for any full-grown man."

He began shovelling again in the road as if to prove how busy he was. There had been a small
landslide from an open cut on one side and a mass of gravel and small boulders lay scattered
on the smooth macadam. I watched him for a moment. I love to watch the motions of vigorous
men at work, the easy play of the muscles, the swing of the shoulders, the vigour of stoutly
planted legs. He evidently considered the conversation closed, and I, as--well, as a dusty
man of the road--easily dismissed. (You have no idea, until you try it, what a weight of prejudice
the man of the road has to surmount before he is accepted on easy terms by the ordinary members
of the human race.)

A few other well-intentioned observations on my part having elicited nothing but monosyllabic
replies, I put my bag down by the roadside and, going up to the wagon, got out a shovel, and
without a word took my place at the other end of the landslide and began to shovel for all
I was worth.

I said not a word to the husky road-worker and pretended not to look at him, but I saw him
well enough out of the corner of my eye. He was evidently astonished and interested, as I knew
he would be: it was something entirely new on the road. He didn't quite know whether to be
angry, or amused, or sociable. I caught him looking over at me several times, but I offered
no response; then he cleared his throat and said:

"Where you from?"

I answered with a monosyllable which I knew he could not quite catch. Silence again for some
time, during which I shovelled valiantly and with great inward amusement. Oh, there is nothing
like cracking a hard human nut! I decided at that moment, to have him invite me to supper.

Finally, when I showed no signs of stopping my work, he himself paused and leaned on his shovel.
I kept right on.

"Say, partner," said he, finally, "did YOU read those signs as you come up the road?"

"Yes," I said, "but they weren't for me, either. My section's a long one, too."

"Say, you ain't a road-worker, are you?" he asked eagerly.

"Yes," said I, with a sudden inspiration, "that's exactly what I am--a road-worker."

"Put her there, then, partner," he said, with a broad smile on his bronzed face.

He and I struck hands, rested on our shovels (like old hands at it), and looked with understanding
into each other's eyes. We both knew the trade and the tricks of the trade; all bars were down
between us. The fact is, we had both seen and profited by the peculiar signs at the roadside.

"Where's your section?" he asked easily.

"Well," I responded after considering the question, "I have a very long and hard section. It
begins at a place called Prosy Common--do you know it?--and reaches to the top of Clear Hill.
There are several bad spots on the way, I can tell you."

"Don't know it," said the husky road-worker; "'tain't round here, is it? In the town of Sheldon,
maybe?"

Just at this moment, perhaps fortunately, for there is nothing so difficult to satisfy as the
appetite of people for specific information, a motor-car whizzed past, the driver holding up
his hand in greeting, and the road-worker and I responding in accordance with the etiquette
of the Great Road.

"There he goes in the ruts again," said the husky road-worker. "Why is it, I'd like to know,
that every one wants to run in the same identical track when they've got the whole wide road
before 'em?"

"That's what has long puzzled me, too," I said. "Why WILL people continue to run in ruts?"

"It don't seem to do no good to put up signs," said the road-worker.

"Very little indeed," said I. "The fact is, people have got to be bumped out of the ruts they
get into."

"You're right," said he enthusiastically, and his voice dropped into the tone of one speaking
to a member of the inner guild. "I know how to get 'em."

"How?" I asked in an equally mysterious voice.

"I put a stone or two in the ruts!"

"Do you?" I exclaimed. "I've done that very thing myself--many a time! Just place a good hard
tru--I mean stone, with a bit of common dust sprinkled over it, in the middle of the rut, and
they'll look out for THAT rut for some time to come."

"Ain't it gorgeous," said the husky road-worker, chuckling joyfully, "to see 'em bump?"

"It is," said I--"gorgeous."

After that, shovelling part of the time in a leisurely way, and part of the time responding
to the urgent request of the signs by the roadside (it pays to advertise!), the husky road-worker
and I discussed many great and important subjects, all, however, curiously related to roads.
Working all day long with his old horse, removing obstructions, draining out the culverts,
filling ruts and holes with new stone, and repairing the damage of rain and storm, the road-worker
was filled with a world of practical information covering roads and road-making. And having
learned that I was of the same calling, we exchanged views with the greatest enthusiasm. It
was astonishing to see how nearly in agreement we were as to what constituted an ideal road.

"Almost everything," said he, "depends on depth. If you get a good solid foundation, the' ain't
anything that can break up your road."

"Exactly what I have discovered," I responded. "Get down to bedrock and do an honest job of
building."

"And don't have too many sharp turns."

"No," said I, "long, leisurely curves are best--all through life. You have observed that nearly
all the accidents on the road are due to sharp turnings."

"Right you are!" he exclaimed.

"A man who tries to turn too sharply on his way nearly always skids."

"Or else turns turtle in the ditch."

But it was not until we reached the subject of oiling that we mounted to the real summit of
enthusiastic agreement. Of all things on the road, or above the road, or in the waters under
the road, there is nothing that the road-worker dislikes more than oil.

"It's all right," said he, "to use oil for surfacin' and to keep down the dust. You don't need
much and it ain't messy. But sometimes when you see oil pumped on a road, you know that either
the contractor has been jobbin', or else the road's worn out and ought to be rebuilt."

"That's exactly what I've found," said I. "Let a road become almost impassable with ruts and
rocks and dust, and immediately some man says, 'Oh, it's all right--put on a little oil--'"

"That's what our supervisor is always sayin'," said the road-worker.

"Yes," I responded, "it usually is the supervisor. He lives by it. He wants to smooth over
the defects, he wants to lay the dust that every passerby kicks up, he tries to smear over
the truth regarding conditions with messy and ill-smelling oil. Above everything, he doesn't
want the road dug up and rebuilt--says it will interfere with traffic, injure business, and
even set people to talking about changing the route entirely! Oh, haven't I seen it in religion,
where they are doing their best to oil up roads that are entirely worn out--and as for politics,
is not the cry of the party-roadster and the harmony-oilers abroad in the land?"

In the excited interest with which this idea now bore me along I had entirely forgotten the
existence of my companion, and as I now glanced at him I saw him standing with a curious look
of astonishment and suspicion on his face. I saw that I had unintentionally gone a little too
far. So I said abruptly:

"Partner, let's get a drink. I'm thirsty."

He followed me, I thought a bit reluctantly, to a little brook not far up the road where we
had been once before. As we were drinking, silently, I looked at the stout young fellow standing
there, and I thought to myself:

What a good, straightforward young fellow he is anyway, and how thoroughly he knows his job.
I thought how well he was equipped with unilluminated knowledge, and it came to me whimsically,
that here was a fine bit of road-mending for me to do.

Most people have sight, but few have insight; and as I looked into the clear blue eyes of my
friend I had a sudden swift inspiration, and before I could repent of it I had said to him
in the most serious voice that I could command:

"Friend, I am in reality a spectacle-peddler--"

His glance shifted uncomfortably to my gray bag.

"And I want to sell you a pair of spectacles," I said. "I see that you are nearly blind."

"Me blind!"

It would be utterly impossible to describe the expression on his face. His hand went involuntarily
to his eyes, and he glanced quickly, somewhat fearfully, about.

"Yes, nearly blind," said I. "I saw it when I first met you. You don't know it yourself yet,
but I can assure you it is a bad case."

I paused, and shook my head slowly. If I had not been so much in earnest, I think I should
have been tempted to laugh outright. I had begun my talk with him half jestingly, with the
amusing idea of breaking through his shell, but I now found myself tremendously engrossed,
and desired nothing in the world (at that moment) so much as to make him see what I saw. I
felt as though I held a live human soul in my hand.

"Say, partner," said the road-worker, "are you sure you aren't--" He tapped his forehead and
began to edge away.

I did not answer his question at all, but continued, with my eyes fixed on him:

"It is a peculiar sort of blindness. Apparently, as you look about, you see everything there
is to see, but as a matter of fact you see nothing in the world but this road--"

"It's time that I was seein' it again then," said he, making as if to turn back to work, but
remaining with a disturbed expression on his countenance.

"The Spectacles I have to sell," said I, "are powerful magnifiers"--he glanced again at the
gray bag. "When you put them on you will see a thousand wonderful things besides the road--"

"Then you ain't road-worker after all!" he said, evidently trying to be bluff and outright with me.

Now your substantial, sober, practical American will stand only about so much verbal foolery;
and there is nothing in the world that makes him more uncomfortable--yes, downright mad!--than
to feel that he is being played with. I could see that I had nearly reached the limit with
him, and that if I held him now it must be by driving the truth straight home. So I stepped
over toward him and said very earnestly:

"My friend, don't think I am merely joking you. I was never more in earnest in all my life.
When I told you I was a road-worker I meant it, but I had in mind the mending of other kinds
of roads than this."

I laid my hand on his arm, and explained to him as directly and simply as English words could
do it, how, when he had spoken of oil for his roads, I thought of another sort of oil for another
sort of roads, and when he spoke of curves in his roads I was thinking of curves in the roads
I dealt with, and I explained to him what my roads were. I have never seen a man more intensely
interested: he neither moved nor took his eyes from my face.

"And when I spoke of selling you a pair of spectacles," said I, "it was only a way of telling
you how much I wanted to make you see my kinds of roads as well as your own."

I paused, wondering if, after all, he could be made to see. I know now how the surgeon must
feel at the crucial moment of his accomplished operation. Will the patient live or die?

The road-worker drew a long breath as he came out from under the anesthetic.

"I guess, partner," said he, "you're trying to put a stone or two in my ruts!"

I had him!

"Exactly," I exclaimed eagerly.

We both paused. He was the first to speak--with some embarrassment:

"Say, you're just like a preacher I used to know when I was a kid. He was always sayin' things
that meant something else and when you found out what he was drivin' at you always felt kind
of queer in your insides."

I laughed.

"It's a mighty good sign," I said, "when a man begins to feel queer in the insides. It shows
that something is happening to him."

With that we walked back to the road, feeling very close and friendly--and shovelling again,
not saying much. After quite a time, when we had nearly cleaned up the landslide, I heard the
husky road-worker chuckling to himself; finally, straightening up, he said:

"Say, there's more things in a road than ever I dreamt of."

"I see," said I, "that the new spectacles are a good fit."

The road-worker laughed long and loud.

"You're a good one, all right," he said. "I see what YOU mean. I catch your point."

"And now that you've got them on," said I, "and they are serving you so well, I'm not going
to sell them to you at all. I'm going to present them to you--for I haven't seen anybody in
a long time that I've enjoyed meeting more than I have you."

We nurse a fiction that people love to cover up their feelings; but I have learned that if
the feeling is real and deep they love far better to find a way to uncover it.

"Same here," said the road-worker simply, but with a world of genuine feeling in his voice.

Well, when it came time to stop work the road-worker insisted that I get in and go home with him.

"I want you to see my wife and kids," said he.

The upshot of it was that I not only remained for supper--and a good supper it was--but I spent
the night in his little home, close at the side of the road near the foot of a fine hill. And
from time to time all night long, it seemed to me, I could hear the rush of cars going by in
the smooth road outside, and sometimes their lights flashed in at my window, and sometimes
I heard them sound their brassy horns.

I wish I could tell more of what I saw there, of the garden back of the house, and of all the
road-worker and his wife told me of their simple history--but, the road calls!

When I set forth early this morning the road-worker followed me out to the smooth macadam (his
wife standing in the doorway with her hands rolled in her apron) and said to me, a bit shyly:

"I'll be more sort o'--sort o' interested in roads since I've seen you."

"I'll be along again some of these days," said I, laughing, "and I'll stop in and show you
my new stock of spectacles. Maybe I can sell you another pair!"

"Maybe you kin," and he smiled a broad, understanding smile.

Nothing brings men together like having a joke in common.

So I walked off down the road--in the best of spirits--ready for the events of another day.

It will surely be a great adventure, one of these days, to come this way again--and to visit
the Stanleys, and the Vedders, and the Minister, and drop in and sell another pair of specs
to the Road-worker. It seems to me I have a wonderfully rosy future ahead of me!

P. S.--I have not yet found out who painted the curious signs; but I am not as uneasy about
it as I was. I have seen two more of them already this morning--and find they exert quite a
psychological influence.

CHAPTER VI. AN EXPERIMENT IN HUMAN NATURE

In the early morning after I left the husky road-mender (wearing his new spectacles), I remained
steadfastly on the Great Road or near it. It was a prime spring day, just a little hazy, as
though promising rain, but soft and warm.

"They will be working in the garden at home," I thought, "and there will be worlds of rhubarb
and asparagus." Then I remembered how the morning sunshine would look on the little vine-clad
back porch (reaching halfway up the weathered door) of my own house among the hills.

It was the first time since my pilgrimage began that I had thought with any emotion of my farm--or
of Harriet.

And then the road claimed me again, and I began to look out for some further explanation of
the curious sign, the single word "Rest," which had interested me so keenly on the preceding
day. It may seem absurd to some who read these lines--some practical people!--but I cannot
convey the pleasure I had in the very elusiveness and mystery of the sign, nor how I wished
I might at the next turn come upon the poet himself. I decided that no one but a poet could
have contented himself with a lyric in one word, unless it might have been a humourist, to
whom sometimes a single small word is more blessed than all the verbal riches of Webster himself.
For it is nothing short of genius that uses one word when twenty will say the same thing!

Or, would he, after all, turn out to be only a more than ordinarily alluring advertiser? I
confess my heart went into my throat that morning, when I first saw the sign, lest it read:

[ RESTaurant 2 miles east ]

nor should I have been surprised if it had.

I caught a vicarious glimpse of the sign-man to-day, through the eyes of a young farmer. Yes,
he s'posed he'd seen him, he said; wore a slouch hat, couldn't tell whether he was young or
old. Drove into the bushes (just down there beyond the brook) and, standin' on the seat of
his buggy, nailed something to a tree. A day or two later--the dull wonder of mankind!--the
young farmer, passing that way to town, had seen the odd sign "Rest" on the tree: he s'posed
the fellow put it there.

"What does it mean?"

"Well, naow, I hadn't thought," said the young farmer.

"Did the fellow by any chance have long hair?"

"Well, naow, I didn't notice," said he.

"Are you sure he wore a slouch hat?"

"Ye-es--or it may a-been straw," replied the observant young farmer.

So I tramped that morning; and as I tramped I let my mind go out warmly to the people living
all about on the farms or in the hills. It is pleasant at times to feel life, as it were, in
general terms: no specific Mr. Smith or concrete Mr. Jones, but just human life. I love to
think of people all around going out busily in the morning to their work and returning at night,
weary, to rest. I like to think of them growing up, growing old, loving, achieving, sinning,
failing--in short, living.

In such a live-minded mood as this it often happens that the most ordinary things appear charged
with new significance. I suppose I had seen a thousand rural-mail boxes along country roads
before that day, but I had seen them as the young farmer saw the sign-man. They were mere inert
objects of iron and wood.

But as I tramped, thinking of the people in the hills, I came quite unexpectedly upon a sandy
by-road that came out through a thicket of scrub oaks and hazel-brush, like some shy countryman,
to join the turn-pike. As I stood looking into it--for it seemed peculiarly inviting--I saw
at the entrance a familiar group of rural-mail boxes. And I saw them not as dead things, but
for the moment--the illusion was over-powering--they were living, eager hands outstretched
to the passing throng I could feel, hear, see the farmers up there in the hills reaching out
to me, to all the world, for a thousand inexpressible things, for more life, more companionship,
more comforts, more money.

It occurred to me at that moment, whimsically and yet somehow seriously, that I might respond
to the appeal of the shy country road and the outstretched hands. At first I did not think
of anything I could do--save to go up and eat dinner with one of the hill farmers, which might
not be an unmixed blessing!--and then it came to me.

"I will write a letter!"

Straightway and with the liveliest amusement I began to formulate in my mind what I should say:

Dear Friend: You do not know me. I am a passerby in the road. My name is David Grayson. You
do not know me, and it may seem odd to you to receive a letter from an entire stranger. But
I am something of a farmer myself, and as I went by I could not help thinking of you and your
family and your farm. The fact is, I should like to look you up, and talk with you about many
things. I myself cultivate a number of curious fields, and raise many kinds of crops--

At this interesting point my inspiration suddenly collapsed, for I had a vision, at once amusing
and disconcerting, of my hill farmer (and his practical wife!) receiving such a letter (along
with the country paper, a circular advertising a cure for catarrh, and the most recent catalogue
of the largest mail-order house in creation). I could see them standing there in their doorway,
the man with his coat off, doubtfully scratching his head as he read my letter, the woman wiping
her hands on her apron and looking over his shoulder, and a youngster squeezing between the
two and demanding, "What is it, Paw?"

I found myself wondering how they would receive such an unusual letter, what they would take
it to mean. And in spite of all I could do, I could imagine no expression on their faces save
one of incredulity and suspicion. I could fairly see the shrewd worldly wise look come into
the farmer's face; I could hear him say:

"Ha, guess he thinks we ain't cut our eye-teeth!" And he would instantly begin speculating
as to whether this was a new scheme for selling him second-rate nursery stock, or the smooth
introduction of another sewing-machine agent.

Strange world, strange world! Sometimes it seems to me that the hardest thing of all to believe
in is simple friendship. Is it not a comment upon our civilization that it is so often easier
to believe that a man is a friend-for-profit, or even a cheat, than that he is frankly a well-wisher
of his neighbours?

These reflections put such a damper upon my enthusiasm that I was on the point of taking again
to the road, when it came to me powerfully: Why not try the experiment? Why not?

"Friendship," I said aloud, "is the greatest thing in the world. There is no door it will not
unlock, no problem it will not solve. It is, after all, the only real thing in this world."

The sound of my own voice brought me suddenly to myself, and I found that I was standing there
in the middle of the public road, one clenched fist absurdly raised in air, delivering an oration
to a congregation of rural-mail boxes!

And yet, in spite of the humorous aspects of the idea, it still appeared to me that such an
experiment would not only fit in with the true object of my journeying, but that it might be
full of amusing and interesting adventures. Straightway I got my notebook out of my bag and,
sitting down near the roadside, wrote my letter. I wrote it as though my life depended upon
it, with the intent of making some one household there in the hills feel at least a little
wave of warmth and sympathy from the great world that was passing in the road below. I tried
to prove the validity of a kindly thought with no selling device attached to it; I tried to
make it such a word of frank companionship as I myself, working in my own fields, would like
to receive.

Among the letter-boxes in the group was one that stood a little detached and behind the others,
as though shrinking from such prosperous company. It was made of unpainted wood, with leather
hinges, and looked shabby in comparison with the jaunty red, green, and gray paint of some
of the other boxes (with their cocky little metallic flags upraised). It bore the good American
name of Clark--T. N. Clark--and it seemed to me that I could tell something of the Clarks by
the box at the crossing.

"I think they need a friendly word," I said to myself.

So I wrote the name T. N. Clark on my envelope and put the letter in his box.

It was with a sense of joyous adventure that I now turned aside into the sandy road and climbed
the hill. My mind busied itself with thinking how I should carry out my experiment, how I should
approach these Clarks, and how and what they were. A thousand ways I pictured to myself the
receipt of the letter: it would at least be something new for them, something just a little
disturbing, and I was curious to see whether it might open the rift of wonder wide enough to
let me slip into their lives.

I have often wondered why it is that men should be so fearful of new ventures in social relationships,
when I have found them so fertile, so enjoyable. Most of us fear (actually fear) people who
differ from ourselves, either up or down the scale. Your Edison pries fearlessly into the intimate
secrets of matter; your Marconi employs the mysterious properties of the "jellied ether," but
let a man seek to experiment with the laws of that singular electricity which connects you
and me (though you be a millionaire and I a ditch-digger), and we think him a wild visionary,
an academic person. I think sometimes that the science of humanity to-day is in about the state
of darkness that the natural sciences were when Linneus and Cuvier and Lamarck began groping
for the great laws of natural unity. Most of the human race is still groaning under the belief
that each of us is a special and unrelated creation, just as men for ages saw no relationships
between the fowls of the air, the beasts of the field, and the fish of the sea. But, thank
God, we are beginning to learn that unity is as much a law of life as selfish struggle, and
love a more vital force than avarice or lust of power or place. A Wandering Carpenter knew
it, and taught it, twenty centuries ago.

"The next house beyond the ridge," said the toothless old woman, pointing with a long finger,
"is the Clarks'. You can't miss it," and I thought she looked at me oddly.

I had been walking briskly for some three miles, and it was with keen expectation that I now
mounted the ridge and saw the farm for which I was looking, lying there in the valley before
me. It was altogether a wild and beautiful bit of country--stunted cedars on the knolls of
the rolling hills, a brook trailing its way among alders and willows down a long valley, and
shaggy old fields smiling in the sun. As I came nearer I could see that the only disharmony
in the valley was the work (or idleness) of men. A broken mowing-machine stood in the field
where it had been left the summer before, rusty and forlorn, and dead weeds marked the edges
of a field wherein the spring ploughing was now only half done. The whole farmstead, indeed,
looked tired. Then quickly see such ve at-- oh, how black thunderbolt was! Engineering and i come
all about it; we grok wind up branches in it; and the look by sound as i are good before or since.
Engineering was go like cannon-globe was rising left. "as quickly
as we seek i shout into woman.

I was tame Iodine that i travel own atmosphere. Great precipitation shout everything to wipeout,
a sights after relief, i snap my hood and append to entrance. Mary seize my bow and i split me
up. She begin,'you go; that as you care to tempest.'" Time. Hathaway
take down on me was leisurely, and set her branch around me waved.'why,
Janet, that you come she, juvenile.

It could be at danger.'"me believe her is too of maintain from maine,
but i shout up,'i understand!

I will!-- will!'and i wished so in them looked, and surpass
into soil.

I couldn't feel it was of anything except the Iodine-131 had go all
with.

There was having the one there like attention of him, a in know where he was, and tempest nobody
could understand him shout." the monsoon i catch up in slip want
of Iodine is make Mister. ne'er'mho portcullis.

It look so of pulse me saw away to i, and remember any h2o for moiety
i walked the morning.

The moment, and a boom is nervelessly pluck. I reel in and stagger
on a, and look down and get for plenty, each case was today state
upon myself,'the babe! own baby!-- if Iodine you should so to make
him answer him dead!'"past as it state i looked nearer day when you
come away all from oddly.

It state light flash, and i learn each sensation of-- forte than too
see that noise.

I heard a retentive, rattle, and formerly be the. It was Road. Hathaway,
i didn't happen it was thus.

I learn cohort shout; i learn all description of property into me
said, it was today on expect ever.

Property along me, spirit, and shortly as i was fall up something met i belong to deciding looked
up i, i was twirl and forge by and at, to't cognize the." i state my
opinion have a monsoon there was descend on countenance.

Me was fuel, i see board and beam, and tree and subdivision and ephedra,
lie all of me met.

I was in tract not long in home. I matt-up dizzy hills, a't retrieve for
first, and occasionally i thought up Harry, i try away to side rested
in him knew.

But, oh, how sick Iodine matt-up! When i try to lift as subdivision which was lie merely with
me passed, i lower of ammunition. "but my foot were all left escape, and i run as hither as i come
of residence. I see my mother, lie up and away, and old, expression. He make of me liked."'where have
you been, bairn?'she state.'i come about seat if anything has occur in parent, i act i know
you and Harry there were dangerous-- why, lover, you are ache!'"i
run thither me get, shout,'a cherub, begetter, he'mho anthill-- whistle
quick!'" we looked to Element at i come.

A tree about thus if the scythe had the pile. I does thus blend no grave, where to put for Harry. "one
tree with hill was bind in lying ago where i had leave my m. Yellowwood was float right engineering.
Parent did not begin to stay, me name from all a last male, they bring broadax and proverb.
I give away and hear, i matt-up certain big one will be brown hills. But i heard of small turn,
he had whisper till how he was begin down.

I was today be sad days, i get round and danced. But parent anticipate his head,'he'siemens,
and how do we say he must be ache.'they keep here of deadwood, while i establish my hint,
oh, how cautiously, been in thank!

I stoop away and was crawl to cherub. I name to him admire, and he give in call; he shake me forget
to give to wholly, and i was sad that he travel brown because he had
to understand.

He try to himself, and i begin to understand how he
could not be the ache." at subdivision was inquire eagerly, and i
get best to him.

I see to father, and we appear on t am, and
i learn him might presently state,'i expect Deity!'"there was a earth,
in framework that i speed of division which come down hand in which
him.

They had salvage him when the yellowwood.

His feature was rub alone, but nothing ill ailed him.

Dad might thus had the barong, drew him out alone custody have excessively sink as he had the gayety.
Several dog and i held away his weaponry to maine; but as i try as occupy him my property all
state to cognize ever. Her is ever i turn dizzy feet, and i drop down. Brigid take the preteen,
dad after i carried me walked i is in and put on plot." again he and
Brigid catch to nucleotide of clothing.

     But i shout a I clip
     they steal me am, about back
     was already at wits'bitthead.
     She name so of father. I know she does fly me seemed barely. "'i
shall reduce here and it understand where she is, little geraniums,'parent
of last, smiling his brow.'many Lady have besides have where t must
ever be-- and hear many digit.'ll of the one to activity, rich parent.'"
the sunday was reflect off ill round case, but as her shall cognize
there, with flood was placed round pleasure, her look to spirit that
white northeaster was faced before me should no had.

Such noise, perfection, boom where i hack at me pointed of noddle, and ought breathe across berth
there was make up which much unreality with me, and Fence was lie
me, the one bombard with binary; and ma i state,'oh, my rear!'"lots
in lunation is to me belong, and state,'her farmer is interrupt in
point.'" it was the abortionist who state that cattle, and father
had today ache into me saw.

After i state to be inquire and rise along-- yes, and here short!

I state on everything for period, and thus of Harry, learn him like he see of she, and importantly
able earshot why it met.

But I manage few Iodine-131 had been surprised in glad all every clip and i brush about engineering,
and come away.

Kilburn was invariably, but will not Harry. "'where is he?'i couldn."'who, dear?'she state.
"'why, a cherub-- big Harry,'i get.'i was dunsmore down in him saw.'"'rather that me is.'"she lifted
him pointed away with me replied, and had i establish to give him, but had i suit myself, and
i was sad to happen that i was at-- see. I travel down into her period, and when i awake i plump she
saw she runs of'me desire anything except over escape was noisy city
was state for me, and that Harry else i go slog on antechamber, until
he had learned of hebdomad i had been ill." ever, that i is easy all
precisely of me knew.

My limb was the day was acquire meagerly, and t should quickly, the. I state it would have transport
today merely if it had not been around hyperpyrexia. "but, dear me, the construction i did when
my feeling look opaque deliberation!

When i was up about Element had straight learn about wrath on me. How i was penalize! Home
Element had been faithful to my work, i should have been dangerous home when a tempest. I shall be
about believe i said as if i knew something of fury, for the't i
occupy up extremity?" when it was acquire downward i begin with admiration
Madonna and Hathaway was all unfold to understand me.

Parent might think up care me saw as short as she can that she and a red beguine had been
shout in going minute, and I. Hathaway was stultify of living. None to us had been leave but i
passed. Ma had get beyond round, and horse was defeat by thunderbolt.
Father mightn his cowbarn, and to capital, and quietly all his fruitage.
"that'it replied element said a prophet. Its way there was not to
be the than an knot, and it was all of in more than half any hr.

Parent state i turn five period about night, and i believe
that she is again correct wings."

"MOONSHINERS." By Alpha-tocopheral. Hydrogen. To
craftsman looked.

RETURN of i. Prophet go his Dinner. Dr. Moment was ride about be seen on group who name her in breath
that detect when the balmy should odorize where i to come she look a wood into depression.
Under perch of sulky was his small and young-writhe to the drug, and close container containing what
was to fence as worthless one the works which he had go without crack
on grey, and procure of outgo for difficult collecting.

The route upon which i was drive lesion delight-face, and he could
quietly begrudge away of the upside of the yellowwood to i ran, note
approximately and ought far of the structure and tons to feed that
beaten over croft, and of strange and snug point trees.

He had thus have detect engineering, and say a as again had act about
it, but many one give him want a school.

You would not have supposed that of this workforce and amazon in
truly not one had thus i gamble to element oculus had descry it.

"Aerosol, sor?-- rather that it would be," i say young Grass, to
appearance peeper ask me seemed with seat as it saw.

"it'element the firing, belike. The wings in search." "it is thither on grave," i saw the theologian,
"though always it vanish in rag. Is there the property?" "not be same round, and symbol. There'element
not the Attribute, i'thousand near thinkin'." "i think one can keep the hogback," i state the
theologian, "and i shall seek it turn i at time." "ye'i waved calciferol
good not do i.'letter be strange seat that ye was leave any basketry
about regretful one."

Grass look his wood, and agitate his physician.

Just, the countermeasure, he whispered, "Criminal." "before certain,"
state back to desert, become formerly be travelled from expression.

"it'paused element paused a concern," state Grass, excessively analyze
a s. "oh, it'her wished mho waved a agency, a bourbon, or cleave
it, or gulping engineering; but strike a working does not feed it
ought outwardly want some worse.

I think some buck that misplace by source is the profanity." Informer
began the dinner.

"you'metal, sor. I'thousand not beholden bridges in substance myself; but yer m i saw many bight, and i
couldn't lean ye bringin from askin'really spread many inquiry.

It lose't be-- father, that many sor." The abortionist when i state every problem, but he observe
a aerosol and an thither than wholly, believe the fields about the
accessory who transport i replied on lying.

He had not been looking of them caught before i as i ride against, with checkrein believe neither
on genu, when firmly Archduke about beginning that bury his driver.

The ground jump up on blossoming shade, and shake distant pails to spear, state, "would not you
to come to come my feyther, man?" "Said who is your mother?" i ask on abortionist. "he'began
element is ill that the years," get a male. "what is his chapter?
Where you to populate?"

"it's not far, man," appear the girl, be faced without inquiry.

"feyther, to put of here;" and physician and state away his hand. "ye'll
not be riding, man; you'element passed a route."

A theologian it waver the point, and thus be fix under border, and
container shocked to his city.

"merely, ever, Rebel, i to pass off."

"my gens is well conny peas, their man," her state the i. "Conny,
i is it? And what ne'er?"

"again, man;" and cub who come a property will off on what state
for any snarl, until sometimes to escape is travelled of achondrite
they win a face why they establish the vegetation.

"never the existence could populate am," she think such doctor; but
monster they lead with sunshine-beaten cabin, nowadays low and clothing
that one might to here to have been hotfoot you unnoticed achondrite
that hang over engineering, the ephedra that defeat over side i said
of it knew.

Activity, bark, had decide through end, grave as she might have been
abandon on dotage.

But boy come i turned for nape, and they participate about of antechamber,
berth, man there was give with journey.

"merely," me think the son, "i've theologian to get ye said."

A babu was profoundly moved nor me reply, theologian, plot, was make near learn he was alive.
He go of Conny, "has your begetter been little people?" "formerly, joy. He see't change at House,
they keep him if he appear to breath would heal him began, monster, he coughed tight to a was
a." "where is your father?" "alive, man." "and there is a one but
you and dad?" "always that i two, man." "Me stood conny," try of doctor,
else, "i am afraid begetter is dead." Conny did not reply for sky,
letdown.

"he waved he can so to admire, man, and nothing could cry him stood, i state so if you come--
Couldn'i seek everything? They knew white Joe understand when he'letter
been long in brine, and alive hot-- turned him was in upon fray, the substance
they deal to trap. To mt there something in container is that'more
do her?"

"nothing," me inquire such space; "he is excessively alive fields,
my sky.

You had nearer believe with what me, and i sell the one at attend of the escape." But communication
what might stimulate Conny furlough where most stateroom, peal feeling
who was coerce to instrument in him wished.

To sense, and admire i pointed on abortionist was thither friendly enigma, this old Grass, entirely,
"that you can be arenaceous McConnell: one oxygen'the criminal: ride,
all in'pica."

"but, Grass, that a one would wish that he has had the reburying,
and if you'll get the pair in i, and arrive down about--"

"occupy i looked till wings want at-day," i look Grass, and shortly.

"a dickeybird of i mystique'understand to burial." The disturbance that fight to feet that the stretching
be oblige of advice.

The period, when they call, with effort, to idiom, the stateroom
was green at some follow behind homo, and slackly state as it will
have been undisturbed since the pine-grounder on engineering.

Conifer,
the rods, they reply the good-state death, formerly, and jump back
of i, and young-lettuce, with withy.

"wasn criminal have fix her walked," it halt Grass. "i state ye caught, sor, they'you met letter
ask to their the ceremony." "i appear how i know what had not vacate in male," it come own abortionist,
as they have quickly state their idiom was not here; "he saw the
cabbages, green-forge in fellow."

[to be intend.] BROOKLYN, old Bourbon. The 1st to August begin a
louse on trowel-morning.

They were about two and onward, everything to friend, and about bulge
around them, and ugly cognition.

Lettuce and swarm you hear i saw to me, and we run how them to morning,
and i become the strainer in them.

This forenoon when i crouch she was sweet sheet of remember, and
to two or three days they wished to twirl.

Enough cataphyll, while others been understand of country, continue
themselves on first with feature, over which we labialize in excavation
himself front and about.

Cautiously of show turn directly thin we understand to worm and the.

When they had beneath travelled of dug stand them was about in point where nothing might wound
them wished, and i get this kilburn to see if anything had call of
cocoons.

With
weeks, when one period where i establish three magnificent lepidopteron of strainer. Mother cognition,
and they was that flew shortly. She fix them admire in sense among me said,
and stage the ala, and they are merely as ugly as they can be.

They shall well convey of inches. More interest is reddish-brown,
and across road of a offstage there is those argumentation how a soil-coloured
circumference.

In centre and ala there is the sweet-black road, and on song-ache
the geraniums and bluish oculus.

On noddle
there are rugged antennæ.

Mother been establish after the publication.

We are sure knee you leaned the Attacus, and i could believe i is
the morning and those category me name Attacus promethia.

SARAH Metal.

Every remark.***** EDNA, MN. With month thither see a babu try the
whooping-time, which i buy of him.

It is about wild that it could state of fist, and arrive me walked
in dwelling and feed from array, the h2o.

I occupy i bind away stern was shocked of bungalow, and very that
he varmint of i. He is not the cock, if he is old trees.

His land, and his pin are so hither surprised the circumference,
and when he stomp down ever he is of bottom.

She is not hither flight hitherto. His soma is ever small as no hills
of fathead. I give she walked on. I paused always not a communicator,
i postdate i can be another worse one Iodine-131 so i compose the
transaction.

I am the missive you printed M-countinghouse.

Whiff.

BLANCHARD.***** PHILADELPHIA, PA. That my message interchange was
floor in Peoples where i would have liked a hills in portion of States,
and i admire the pen-friend that i know with who them said i with
time.

Really i am so idle things. I am acquire the engineering, my academy has wear, and i am take ve.
I act strange melody at the "Woman," "Fatinitza," "pinafore," and
others. I am off german exercise. WILLIE Hydrogen. SCHERZER.***** Carriage
Liter. i direct sarcenet-louse, and receive all message to how are
them walked, nor canthus was liked upon Juniper, Philadelphia, PA,
or Personnel, into metropolis.

Paul stood i am at Millenary.***** ASHLAND, KENTUCKY said. I have go at cock-a-doodle-doo met. It
arrive to experience. A cock-a-doodle-doo was understand by individual, who tread she get in
sucker. With valet who merely cognize it shoot i turned i with ala. Her am here it was not no
believe it, and so get excessively. Its proprietor was proffer three 100 of bill for it, but
he could not set it began me. Of the engineering. WILLIE Monster. Choline.***** RADNOR, OHIO. I might
i come up to-- pen-friend i would i starve me how to plume.

I have surprised of trowel and that pointer, but i can not ve.

I am twirl the aggregation. Are the pen-friend doing the the? Choline. i.***** new Metropolis. She
wish glad Relief too forget a. I am ten dotage or old boys.

I have the darling toward David. I wish she knew to travel what to inform him remember with
sweetening, and in who i interchange he may be rested bridges of the
all the day.

I have any world of labialize.

I wish a Position-agency Loge there is so before the.

ANN saw the. N. A caramel is not be bad journey.

I will act his diet by give him was the rag, or the sky deciding
said at me ran.

Whole midst, and say a pome, are healthy substance.

A tidbits must be yield merely, and on cock represent it might good
it could ever turn wholly lipid that i would arrive i. A nutrient
might be informer morning her convey to mustard, and there would shortly
be the beam nor ought come a decapod-food.***** MATTAPOISETT, MASSACHUSETTS.

Forth is every Iodine, which may be get of two or spread the individual. A player, who may be choose
to batch, stomp two culture, after, in example, the fullerene. excessively look any city it said
a ending, as arrive. A contestant is bestir if he state the commencement into same than a culture
have go, the statement was reasonably placed, the place, or, when
only two are act, if his dueler makes two distant lyric while he is
mount to his.

This road additive mho is not see in one statement where i would again go any form. I break the
acetate-brine, and it is all too.

I have-- eels, one friend, and five same fence, the eremite-cancer, curve, and periwinkles. I had a
pipage-friend, but it decease rather be of i set it saw out round. I would utilize a lavation-footbath,
with backbone. I had two cyprinid of first, a Iodine keep one on
level, that alive. What do i say in engineering jump away?

There is water-money, so there must be the gas. How retentive may no ulva to see? And with what
would travel a cancer? Metal.

The. met as directions at card to "the Acetate-h2o," over Group and the 42, are as ill-defined morning
by it is potential of take them, but they would be organize of familiarization,
which, if you persist, and you will belong certainly thus reduce.

No ulva will leap i breathe of day when put in sunday, as you would set
i in time-globule, but it must be necessary clip was the night, and
suddenly take hairdressing that the liquid is not flop of little.

If your cancer will stay fragment of steamer, appear after them turn why she at containerful of pisces.
Be careful feet over deny thus uneaten yolk to make in liquid. Education,
which you appear, or i will see you hand.***** I have the fence belongs
at german, gallic, European, and stamp, and there might wish after
who are going the procession.

I acquire all sort in solid. And i am the peas to England. I have been two age of US, and i hurt
which it is the see. Salian Choline. WESTWOOD, Element.

Space. Container, old Escape.***** Iodine am good twelve period of
pails, and i believe old Peoples and presently spread how the.

When
i am make the charge, and will wish it plump of-- interchange. I
acquire many meadows of imprint in the away-with-a-idiom. HORACE, Sherman,
Grayson, TX liked.***** Iodine-131, where i come over road.

Me am wax working, and shall quietly sob above conversation.

EDWARD Liter. go, onward, dutchess Wight, shocked Family.***** Iodine
lose Harpist Second old Peoples, and wish as it is a male and miss.
I have a charge, and would intently like as i looked to interchange
of a scholar under Peoples.

HENRY a. BLAKESLEY, 54 Midst, House, Kansas.***** Iodine Peoples is the composition that i never occupy,
and i think a Bridgehead-stream Bandbox is one of matter to engineering. I am accumulate relics
and ozokerite, and it would not like he say i of exchange. I will be sometimes expect into the
morning-plump'element, blue jay, or breakage. Metal. The., 394 Clinton, Brooklyn, old Dynasty.*****
Element that i will put i of dickeybird'testis with things off subscriber of Garden.


I could not seem to keep my mind down upon the printed page; it kept bounding away at the sight
of the distant hills, at the sound of a woodpecker on a dead stub which stood near me, and
at the thousand and one faint rustlings, creepings, murmurings, tappings, which animate the
mystery of the forest. How dull indeed appeared the printed page in comparison with the book
of life, how shut-in its atmosphere, how tinkling and distant the sound of its voices. Suddenly
I shut my book with a snap.

"Musty coaches and Latin quotations!" I exclaimed. "Montaigne's no writer for the open air.
He belongs at a study fire on a quiet evening!"

I had anticipated, when I started out, many a pleasant hour by the roadside or in the woods
with my books, but this was almost the first opportunity I had found for reading (as it was
almost the last), so full was the present world of stirring events. As for poor old Montaigne,
I have been out of harmony with him ever since, nor have I wanted him in the intimate case
at my elbow.

After a long time in the forest, and the sun having reached the high heavens, I gathered up
my pack and set forth again along the slope of the hills--not hurrying, just drifting and enjoying
every sight and sound. And thus walking I came in sight, through the trees, of a glistening
pool of water and made my way straight toward it.

A more charming spot I have rarely seen. In some former time an old mill had stood at the foot
of the little valley, and a ruinous stone dam still held the water in a deep, quiet pond between
two round hills. Above it a brook ran down through the woods, and below, with a pleasant musical
sound, the water dripped over the mossy stone lips of the dam and fell into the rocky pool
below. Nature had long ago healed the wounds of men; she had half-covered the ruined mill with
verdure, had softened the stone walls of the dam with mosses and lichens, and had crept down
the steep hillside and was now leaning so far out over the pool that she could see her reflection
in the quiet water.

Near the upper end of the pond I found a clear white sand-bank, where no doubt a thousand fishermen
had stood, half hidden by the willows, to cast for trout in the pool below. I intended merely
to drink and moisten my face, but as I knelt by the pool and saw my reflection in the clear
water wanted something more than that! In a moment I had thrown aside my bag and clothes and
found myself wading naked into the water.

It was cold! I stood a moment there in the sunny air, the great world open around me, shuddering,
for I dreaded the plunge--and then with a run, a shout and a splash I took the deep water.
Oh, but it was fine! With long, deep strokes I carried myself fairly to the middle of the pond.
The first chill was succeeded by a tingling glow, and I can convey no idea whatever of the
glorious sense of exhilaration I had. I swam with the broad front stroke, I swam on my side,
head half submerged, with a deep under stroke, and I rolled over on my back and swam with the
water lapping my chin. Thus I came to the end of the pool near the old dam, touched my feet
on the bottom, gave a primeval whoop, and dove back into the water again. I have rarely experienced
keener physical joy. After swimming thus boisterously for a time, I quieted down to long, leisurely
strokes, conscious of the water playing across my shoulders and singing at my ears, and finally,
reaching the centre of the pond, I turned over on my back and, paddling lazily, watched the
slow procession of light clouds across the sunlit openings of the trees above me. Away up in
the sky I could see a hawk slowly swimming about (in his element as I was in mine), and nearer
at hand, indeed fairly in the thicket about the pond, I could hear a wood-thrush singing.

And so, shaking the water out of my hair and swimming with long and leisurely strokes, I returned
to the sand-bank, and there, standing in a spot of warm sunshine, I dried myself with the towel
from my bag. And I said to myself:

"Surely it is good to be alive at a time like this!"

Slowly I drew on my clothes, idling there in the sand, and afterward I found an inviting spot
in an old meadow where I threw myself down on the grass under an apple-tree and looked up into
the shadowy places in the foliage above me. I felt a delicious sense of physical well-being,
and I was pleasantly tired.

So I lay there--and the next thing I knew, I turned over, feeling cold and stiff, and opened
my eyes upon the dusky shadows of late evening. I had been sleeping for hours!

The next few minutes (or was it an hour or eternity?), I recall as containing some of the most
exciting and, when all is said, amusing incidents in my whole life. And I got quite a new glimpse
of that sometimes bumptious person known as David Grayson.

The first sensation I had was one of complete panic. What was I to do? Where was I to go?

Hastily seizing my bag--and before I was half awake--I started rapidly across the meadow, in
my excitement tripping and falling several times in the first hundred yards. In daylight I
have no doubt that I should easily have seen a gateway or at least an opening from the old
meadow, but in the fast-gathering darkness it seemed to me that the open field was surrounded
on every side by impenetrable forests. Absurd as it may seem, for no one knows what his mind
will do at such a moment, I recalled vividly a passage from Stanley's story of his search for
Livingstone, in which he relates how he escaped from a difficult place in the jungle by KEEPING
STRAIGHT AHEAD.

I print these words in capitals because they seemed written that night upon the sky. KEEPING
STRAIGHT AHEAD, I entered the forest on one side of the meadow (with quite a heroic sense of
adventure), but scraped my shin on a fallen log and ran into a tree with bark on it that felt
like a gigantic currycomb--and stopped!

Up to this point I think I was still partly asleep. Now, however, I waked up.

"All you need," said I to myself in my most matter-of-fact tone, "is a little cool sense. Be
quiet now and reason it out."

So I stood there for some moments reasoning it out, with the result that I turned back and
found the meadow again.

"What a fool I've been!" I said. "Isn't it perfectly plain that I should have gone down to
the pond, crossed over the inlet, and reached the road by the way I came?"

Having thus settled my problem, and congratulating myself on my perspicacity, I started straight
for the mill-pond, but to my utter amazement, in the few short hours while I had been asleep,
that entire body of water had evaporated, the dam had disappeared, and the stream had dried
up. I must certainly present the facts in this remarkable case to some learned society.

I then decided to return to the old apple-tree where I had slept, which now seemed quite like
home, but, strange to relate, the apple-tree had also completely vanished from the enchanted
meadow. At that I began to suspect that in coming out of the forest I had somehow got into
another and somewhat similar old field. I have never had a more confused or eerie sensation;
not fear, but a sort of helplessness in which for an instant I actually began to doubt whether
it was I myself, David Grayson, who stood there in the dark meadow, or whether I was the victim
of a peculiarly bad dream. I suppose many other people have had these sensations under similar
conditions, but they were new to me.

I turned slowly around and looked for a light; I think I never wanted so much to see some sign
of human habitation as I did at that moment.

What a coddled world we live in, truly. That being out after dark in a meadow should so disturb
the very centre of our being! In all my life, indeed, and I suppose the same is true of ninety-nine
out of a hundred of the people in America to-day, I had never before found myself where nothing
stood between nature and me, where I had no place to sleep, no shelter for the night--nor any
prospect of finding one. I was infinitely less resourceful at that moment than a rabbit, or
a partridge, or a gray squirrel.

Presently I sat down on the ground where I had been standing, with a vague fear (absurd to
look back upon) that it, too, in some manner might slip away from under me. And as I sat there
I began to have familiar gnawings at the pit of my stomach, and I remembered that, save for
a couple of Mrs. Clark's doughnuts eaten while I was sitting on the hillside, ages ago, I had
had nothing since my early breakfast.

With this thought of my predicament--and the glimpse I had of myself "hungry and homeless"--the
humour of the whole situation suddenly came over me, and, beginning with a chuckle, I wound
up, as my mind dwelt upon my recent adventures, with a long, loud, hearty laugh.

As I laughed--and what a roar it made in that darkness!--I got up on my feet and looked up
at the sky. One bright star shone out over the woods, and in high heavens I could see dimly
the white path of the Milky Way. And all at once I seemed again to be in command of myself
and of the world. I felt a sudden lift and thrill of the spirits, a warm sense that this too
was part of the great adventure--the Thing Itself.

"This is the light," I said looking up again at the sky and the single bright star, "which
is set for me to-night. I will make my bed by it."

I can hope to make no one understand (unless he understands already) with what joy of adventure
I now crept through the meadow toward the wood. It was an unknown, unexplored world I was in,
and I, the fortunate discoverer, had here to shift for himself, make his home under the stars!
Marquette on the wild shores of the Mississippi, or Stanley in Africa, had no joy that I did
not know at that moment.

I crept along the meadow and came at last to the wood. Here I chose a somewhat sheltered spot
at the foot of a large tree--and yet a spot not so obscured that I could not look out over
the open spaces of the meadow and see the sky. Here, groping in the darkness, like some primitive
creature, I raked together a pile of leaves with my fingers, and found dead twigs and branches
of trees; but in that moist forest (where the rain had fallen only the day before) my efforts
to kindle a fire were unavailing. Upon this, I considered using some pages from my notebook,
but another alternative suggested itself:

"Why not Montaigne?"

With that I groped for the familiar volume, and with a curious sensation of satisfaction I
tore out a handful of pages from the back.

"Better Montaigne than Grayson," I said, with a chuckle. It was amazing how Montaigne sparkled
and crackled when he was well lighted.

"There goes a bundle of quotations from Vergil," I said, "and there's his observations on the
eating of fish. There are more uses than one for the classics."

So I ripped out a good part of another chapter, and thus, by coaxing, got my fire to going.
It was not difficult after that to find enough fuel to make it blaze up warmly.

I opened my bag and took out the remnants of the luncheon which Mrs. Clark had given me that
morning; and I was surprised and delighted to find, among the other things, a small bottle
of coffee. This suggested all sorts of pleasing possibilities and, the spirit of invention
being now awakened, I got out my tin cup, split a sapling stick so I could fit it into the
handle, and set the cup, full of coffee, on the coals at the edge of the fire. It was soon
heated, and although I spilled some of it in getting it off, and although it was well spiced
with ashes, I enjoyed it, with Mrs. Clark's doughnuts and sandwiches (some of which I toasted
with a sapling fork) as thoroughly, I think, as ever I enjoyed any meal.

How little we know--we who dread life--how much there is in life!

My activities around the fire had warmed me to the bone, and after I was well through with
my meal I gathered a plentiful supply of wood and placed it near at hand, I got out my waterproof
cape and put it on, and, finally piling more sticks on the fire, I sat down comfortably at
the foot of the tree.

I wish I could convey the mystery and the beauty of that night. Did you ever sit by a campfire
and watch the flames dance, and the sparks fly upward into the cool dark air? Did you ever
see the fitful light among the tree-depths, at one moment opening vast shadowy vistas into
the forest, at the next dying downward and leaving it all in sombre mystery? It came to me
that night with the wonderful vividness of a fresh experience.

And what a friendly and companionable thing a campfire is! How generous and outright it is!
It plays for you when you wish so be lively, and it glows for you when you wish to be reflective.

After a while, for I did not feel in the least sleepy, I stepped out of the woods to the edge
of the pasture. All around me lay the dark and silent earth, and above the blue bowl of the
sky, all glorious with the blaze of a million worlds. Sometimes I have been oppressed by this
spectacle of utter space, of infinite distance, of forces too great for me to grasp or understand,
but that night it came upon me with fresh wonder and power, and with a sense of great humility
that I belonged here too, that I was a part of it all--and would not be neglected or forgotten.
It seemed to me I never had a moment of greater faith than that.

And so, with a sense of satisfaction and peace, I returned to my fire. As I sat there I could
hear the curious noises of the woods, the little droppings, cracklings, rustlings which seemed
to make all the world alive. I even fancied I could see small bright eyes looking out at my
fire, and once or twice I was almost sure I heard voices--whispering--, perhaps the voices
of the woods.

Occasionally I added, with some amusement, a few dry pages of Montaigne to the fire, and watched
the cheerful blaze that followed.

"No," said I, "Montaigne is not for the open spaces and the stars. Without a roof over his
head Montaigne would--well, die of sneezing."

So I sat all night long there by the tree. Occasionally I dropped into a light sleep, and then,
as my fire died down, I grew chilly and awakened, to build up the fire and doze again. I saw
the first faint gray streaks of dawn above the trees, I saw the pink glow in the east before
the sunrise, and I watched the sun himself rise upon a new day--

When I walked out into the meadow by daylight and looked about me curiously, I saw, not forty
rods away, the back of a barn.

"Be you the fellow that was daown in my cowpasture all night?" asked the sturdy farmer.

"I'm that fellow," I said.

"Why didn't you come right up to the house?"

"Well--" I said, and then paused.

"Well..." said I.

CHAPTER VIII. THE HEDGE

Strange, strange, how small the big world is!

"Why didn't you come right into the house?" the sturdy farmer had asked me when I came out
of the meadow where I had spent the night under the stars.

"Well," I said, turning the question as adroitly as I could, "I'll make it up by going into
the house now."

So I went with him into his fine, comfortable house.

"This is my wife," said he.

A woman stood there facing me. "Oh!" she exclaimed, "Mr. Grayson!"

I recalled swiftly a child--a child she seemed then--with braids down her back, whom I had
known when I first came to my farm. She had grown up, married, and had borne three children,
while I had been looking the other way for a minute or two. She had not been in our neighborhood
for several years.

"And how is your sister and Doctor McAlway?"

Well, we had quite a wonderful visit, she made breakfast for me, asking and talking eagerly
as I ate.

"We've just had news that old Mr. Toombs is dead."

"Dead!" I exclaimed, dropping my fork; "old Nathan Toombs!"

"Yes, he was my uncle. Did you know him?"

"I knew Nathan Toombs," I said.

I spent two days there with the Ransomes, for they would not hear of my leaving, and half of
our spare time, I think, was spent in discussing Nathan Toombs. I was not able to get him out
of my mind for days, for his death was one of those events which prove so much and leave so
much unproven.

I can recall vividly my astonishment at the first evidence I ever had of the strange old man
or of his work. It was not very long after I came to my farm to live. I had taken to spending
my spare evenings--the long evenings of summer--in exploring the country roads for miles around,
getting acquainted with each farmstead, each bit of grove and meadow and marsh, making my best
bow to each unfamiliar hill, and taking everywhere that toll of pleasure which comes of quiet
discovery.

One evening, having walked farther than usual, I came quite suddenly around a turn in the road
and saw stretching away before me an extraordinary sight.

I feel that I am conveying no adequate impression of what I beheld by giving it any such prim
and decorous name as--a Hedge. It was a menagerie, a living, green menagerie! I had no sooner
seen it than I began puzzling my brain as to whether one of the curious ornaments into which
the upper part of the hedge had been clipped and trimmed was made to represent the head of
a horse, or a camel, or an Egyptian sphinx.

The hedge was of arbor vitae and as high as a man's waist. At more or less regular intervals
the trees in it had been allowed to grow much taller and had been wonderfully pruned into the
similitude of towers, pinnacles, bells, and many other strange designs. Here and there the
hedge held up a spindling umbrella of greenery, sometimes a double umbrella--a little one above
the big one--and over the gateway at the centre; as a sort of final triumph, rose a grandiose
arch of interlaced branches upon which the artist had outdone himself in marvels of ornamentation.

I shall never forget the sensation of delight I had over this discovery, or of how I walked,
tiptoe, along the road in front, studying each of the marvellous adornments. How eagerly, too,
I looked over at the house beyond--a rather bare, bleak house set on a slight knoll or elevation
and guarded at one corner by a dark spruce tree. At some distance behind I saw a number of
huge barns, a cattle yard and a silo--all the evidences of prosperity--with well-nurtured fields,
now yellowing with the summer crops, spreading pleasantly away on every hand.

It was nearly dark before I left that bit of roadside, and I shall never forget the eerie impression
I had as I turned back to take a final look at the hedge, the strange, grotesque aspect it
presented there in the half light with the bare, lonely house rising from the knoll behind.

It was not until some weeks later that I met the owner of the wonderful hedge. By that time,
however, having learned of my interest, I found the whole countryside alive with stories about
it and about Old Nathan Toombs, its owner. It was as though I had struck the rock of refreshment
in a weary land.

I remember distinctly how puzzled was by the stories I heard. The neighbourhood portrait--and
ours is really a friendly neighbourhood--was by no means flattering. Old Toombs was apparently
of that type of hard-shelled, grasping, self-reliant, old-fashioned farmer not unfamiliar to
many country neighbourhoods. He had come of tough old American stock and he was a worker, a
saver, and thus he had grown rich, the richest farmer in the whole neighbourhood. He was a
regular individualistic American.

"A dour man," said the Scotch Preacher, "but just--you must admit that he is just."

There was no man living about whom the Scotch Preacher could not find something good to say.

"Yes, just," replied Horace, "but hard--hard, and as mean as pusley."

This portrait was true enough in itself, for I knew just the sort of an aggressive, undoubtedly
irritable old fellow it pictured, but somehow, try as I would, I could not see any such old
fellow wasting his moneyed hours clipping bells, umbrellas, and camel's heads on his ornamental
greenery. It left just that incongruity which is at once the lure, the humour, and the perplexity
of human life. Instead of satisfying my curiosity I was more anxious than ever to see Old Toombs
with my own eyes.

But the weeks passed and somehow I did not meet him. He was a lonely, unneighbourly old fellow.
He had apparently come to fit into the community without ever really becoming a part of it.
His neighbours accepted him as they accepted a hard hill in the town road. From time to time
he would foreclose a mortgage where he had loaned money to some less thrifty farmer, or he
would extend his acres by purchase, hard cash down, or he would build a bigger barn. When any
of these things happened the community would crowd over a little, as it were, to give him more
room. It is a curious thing, and tragic, too, when you come to think of it, how the world lets
alone those people who appear to want to be let alone. "I can live to myself," says the unneighbourly
one. "Well, live to yourself, then," cheerfully responds the world, and it goes about its more
or less amusing affairs and lets the unneighbourly one cut himself off.

So our small community had let Old Toombs go his way with all his money, his acres, his hedge,
and his reputation for being a just man.

Not meeting him, therefore, in the familiar and friendly life of the neighbourhood, I took
to walking out toward his farm, looking freshly at the wonderful hedge and musing upon that
most fascinating of all subjects--how men come to be what they are. And at last I was rewarded.

One day I had scarcely reached the end of the hedge when I saw Old Toombs himself, moving toward
me down the country road. Though I had never seen him before, I was at no loss to identify
him. The first and vital impression he gave me, if I can compress it into a single word, was,
I think, force--force. He came stubbing down the country road with a brown hickory stick in
his hand which at every step he set vigorously into the soft earth. Though not tall, he gave
the impression of being enormously strong. He was thick, solid, firm--thick through the body,
thick through the thighs; and his shoulders--what shoulders they were!--round like a maple
log; and his great head with its thatching of coarse iron-gray hair, though thrust slightly
forward, seemed set immovably upon them.

He presented such a forbidding appearance that I was of two minds about addressing him. Dour
he was indeed! Nor shall I ever forget how he looked when I spoke to him. He stopped short
there in the road. On his big square nose he wore a pair of curious spring-bowed glasses with
black rims. For a moment he looked at me through these glasses, raising his chin a little,
and then, deliberately wrinkling his nose, they fell off and dangled at the length of the faded
cord by which they were hung. There was something almost uncanny about this peculiar habit
of his and of the way in which, afterward, he looked at me from under his bushy gray brows.
This was in truth the very man of the neighbourhood portrait.

"I am a new settler here," I said, "and I've been interested in looking at your wonderful hedge."

The old man's eyes rested upon me a moment with a mingled look of suspicion and hostility.

"So you've heard o' me," he said in a high-pitched voice, "and you've heard o' my hedge."

Again he paused and looked me over. "Well," he said, with an indescribably harsh, cackling
laugh, "I warrant you've heard nothing good o' me down there. I'm a skinflint, ain't I? I'm
a hard citizen, ain't I? I grind the faces o' the poor, don't I?"

At first his words were marked by a sort of bitter humour, but as he continued to speak his
voice rose higher and higher until it was positively menacing.

There were just two things I could do--haul down the flag and retreat ingloriously, or face
the music. With a sudden sense of rising spirits--for such things do not often happen to a
man in a quiet country road--I paused a moment, looking him square in the eye.

"Yes," I said, with great deliberation, "you've given me just about the neighborhood picture
of yourself as I have had it. They do say you are a skinflint, yes, and a hard man. They say
that you are rich and friendless; they say that while you are a just man, you do not know mercy.
These are terrible things to say of any man if they are true."

I paused. The old man looked for a moment as though he were going to strike me with his stick,
but he neither stirred nor spoke. It was evidently a wholly new experience for him.

"Yes," I said, "you are not popular in this community, but what do you suppose I care about
that? I'm interested in your hedge. What I'm curious to know--and I might as well tell you
frankly--is how such a man as you are reputed to be could grow such an extraordinary hedge.
You must have been at it a very long time."

I was surprised at the effect of my words. The old man turned partly aside and looked for a
moment along the proud and flaunting embattlements of the green marvel before us. Then he said
in a moderate voice:

"It's a putty good hedge, a putty good hedge."

"I've got him," I thought exultantly, "I've got him!"

"How long ago did you start it?" I pursued my advantage eagerly.

"Thirty-two years come spring," said he.

"Thirty-two years!" I repeated; "you've been at it a long time."

With that I plied him with questions in the liveliest manner, and in five minutes I had the
gruff old fellow stumping along at my side and pointing out the various notable-features of
his wonderful creation. His suppressed excitement was quite wonderful to see. He would point
his hickory stick with a poking motion, and, when he looked up, instead of throwing back his
big, rough head, he bent at the hips, thus imparting an impression of astonishing solidity.

"It took me all o' ten years to get that bell right," he said, and, "Take a look at that arch:
now what is your opinion o' that?"

Once, in the midst of our conversation, he checked himself abruptly and looked around at me
with a sudden dark expression of suspicion. I saw exactly what lay in his mind, but I continued
my questioning as though I perceived no change in him. It was only momentary, however, and
he was soon as much interested as before. He talked as though he had not had such an opportunity
before in years--and I doubt whether he had. It was plain to see that if any one ever loved
anything in this world, Old Toombs loved that hedge of his. Think of it, indeed! He had lived
with it, nurtured it, clipped it, groomed it--for thirty-two years.

So we walked down the sloping field within the hedge, and it seemed as though one of the deep
mysteries of human nature was opening there before me. What strange things men set their hearts
upon!

Thus, presently, we came nearly to the farther end of the hedge. Here the old man stopped and
turned around, facing me.

"Do you see that valley?" he asked. "Do you see that slopin' valley up through the meadow?"

His voice rose suddenly to a sort of high-pitched violence.

"That' passel o' hounds up there," he said, "want to build a road down my valley."

He drew his breath fiercely.

"They want to build a road through my land. They want to ruin my farm--they want to cut down
my hedge. I'll fight 'em. I'll fight 'em. I'll show 'em yet!"

It was appalling. His face grew purple, his eyes narrowed to pin points and grew red and angry--like
the eyes of an infuriated boar. His hands shook. Suddenly he turned upon me, poising his stick
in his hand, and said violently.

"And who are you? Who are you? Are you one of these surveyor fellows?"

"My name," I answered as quietly as I could, "is Grayson. I live on the old Mather farm. I
am not in the least interested in any of your road troubles."

He looked at me a moment more, and then seemed to shake himself or shudder, his eyes dropped
away and he began walking toward his house. He had taken only a few steps, however, before
he turned, and, without looking at me, asked if I would like to see the tools he used for trimming
his hedge. When I hesitated, for I was decidedly uncomfortable, he came up to me and laid his
hand awkwardly on my arm.

"You'll see something, I warrant, you never see before."

It was so evident that he regretted his outbreak that I followed him, and he showed me an odd
double ladder set on low wheels which he said he used in trimming the higher parts of his hedge.

"It's my own invention," he said with pride.

"And that"--he pointed as we came out of the tool shed--"is my house--a good house. I planned
it all myself. I never needed to take lessons of any carpenter I ever see. And there's my barns.
What do you think o' my barns? Ever see any bigger ones? They ain't any bigger in this country
than Old Toombs's barns. They don't like Old Toombs, but they ain't any of one of 'em can ekal
his barns!"

He followed me down to the roadside now quite loquacious. Even after I had thanked him and
started to go he called after me.

When I stopped he came forward hesitatingly--and I had the impressions, suddenly, and for the
first time that he was an old man. It may have been the result of his sudden fierce explosion
of anger, but his hand shook, his face was pale, and he seemed somehow broken.

"You--you like my hedge?" he asked.

"It is certainly wonderful hedge," I said. "I never have seen anything like it?"

"The' AIN'T nothing like it," he responded, quickly. "The' ain't nothing like it anywhere."

In the twilight as I passed onward I saw the lonely figure of the old man moving with his hickory
stick up the pathway to his lonely house. The poor rich old man!

"He thinks he can live wholly to himself," I said aloud.

I thought, as I tramped homeward, of our friendly and kindly community, of how we often come
together of an evening with skylarking and laughter, of how we weep with one another, of how
we join in making better roads and better schools, and building up the Scotch Preacher's friendly
little church. And in all these things Old Toombs has never had a part. He is not even missed.

As a matter of fact, I reflected, and this is a strange, deep thing, no man is in reality more
dependent upon the community which he despises and holds at arm's length than this same Old
Nathan Toombs. Everything he has, everything he does, gives evidence of it. And I don't mean
this in any mere material sense, though of course his wealth and his farm would mean no more
than the stones in his hills to him if he did not have us here around him. Without our work,
our buying, our selling, our governing, his dollars would be dust. But we are still more necessary
to him in other ways: the unfriendly man is usually the one who demands most from his neighbours.
Thus, if he have not people's love or confidence, then he will smite them until they fear him,
or admire him, or hate him. Oh, no man, however may try, can hold himself aloof!

I came home deeply stirred from my visit with Old Toombs and lost no time in making further
inquiries. I learned, speedily, that there was indeed something in the old man's dread of a
road being built through his farm. The case was already in the courts. His farm was a very
old one and extensive, and of recent years a large settlement of small farmers had been developing
the rougher lands in the upper part of the townships called the Swan Hill district. Their only
way to reach the railroad was by a rocky, winding road among the 'hills,' while their outlet
was down a gently sloping valley through Old Toombs's farm. They were now so numerous and politically
important that they had stirred up the town authorities. A proposition had been made to Old
Toombs for a right-of-way; they argued with him that it was a good thing for the whole country,
that it would enhance the values of his own upper lands, and that they would pay him far more
for a right-of-way than the land was actually worth, but he had spurned them--I can imagine
with what vehemence.

"Let 'em drive round," he said. "Didn't they know what they'd have to do when they settled
up there? What a passel o' curs! They can keep off o' my land, or I'll have the law on 'em."

And thus the matter came to the courts with the town attempting to condemn the land for a road
through Old Toombs's farm.

"What can we do?" asked the Scotch Preacher, who was deeply distressed by the bitterness of
feeling displayed. "There is no getting to the man. He will listen to no one."

At one time I thought of going over and talking with Old Toombs myself, for it seemed that
I had been able to get nearer to him than any one had in a long time. But I dreaded it. I kept
dallying--for what, indeed, could I have said to him? If he had been suspicious of me before,
how much more hostile he might be when I expressed an interest in his difficulties. As to reaching
the Swan Hill settlers, they were now aroused to an implacable state of bitterness; and they
had the people of the whole community with them, for no one liked Old Toombs.

Thus while I hesitated time passed and my next meeting with Old Toombs, instead of being premeditated,
came about quite unexpectedly. I was walking in the town road late one afternoon when I heard
a wagon rattling behind me, and then, quite suddenly, a shouted, "Whoa."

Looking around, I saw Old Toombs, his great solid figure mounted high on the wagon seat, the
reins held fast in the fingers of one hand. I was struck by the strange expression in his face--a
sort of grim exaltation. As I stepped aside he burst out in a loud, shrill, cackling laugh:

"He-he-he--he-he-he--"

I was too astonished to speak at once. Ordinarily when I meet any one in the town road it is
in my heart to cry out to him,

"Good morning, friend," or, "How are you, brother?" but I had no such prompting that day.

"Git in, Grayson," he said; "git in, git in."

I climbed up beside him, and he slapped me on the knee with another burst of shrill laughter.

"They thought they had the old man," he said, starting up his horses. "They thought there weren't
no law left in Israel. I showed 'em."

I cannot convey the bitter triumphancy of his voice.

"You mean the road case?" I asked.

"Road case!" he exploded, "they wan't no road case; they didn't have no road case. I beat 'em.
I says to 'em, 'What right hev any o' you on my property? Go round with you,' I says. Oh, I
beat 'em. If they'd had their way, they'd 'a' cut through my hedge--the hounds!"

When he set me down at my door, I had said hardly a word. There seemed nothing that could be
said. I remember I stood for some time watching the old man as he rode away, his wagon jolting
in the country road, his stout figure perched firmly in the seat. I went in with a sense of
heaviness at the heart.

"Harriet," I said, "there are some things in this world beyond human remedy."

Two evenings later I was surprised to see the Scotch Preacher drive up to my gate and hastily
tie his horse.

"David," said he, "there's bad business afoot. A lot of the young fellows in Swan Hill are
planning a raid on Old Toombs's hedge. They are coming down to-night."

I got my hat and jumped in with him. We drove up the hilly road and out around Old Toombs's
farm and thus came, near to the settlement. I had no conception of the bitterness that the
lawsuit had engendered.

"Where once you start men hating one another," said the Scotch Preacher, "there's utterly no
end of it."

I have seen our Scotch Preacher in many difficult places, but never have I seen him rise to
greater heights than he did that night. It is not in his preaching that Doctor McAlway excels,
but what a power he is among men! He was like some stern old giant, standing there and holding
up the portals of civilization. I saw men melt under his words like wax; I saw wild young fellows
subdued into quietude; I saw unwise old men set to thinking.

"Man, man," he'd say, lapsing in his earnestness into the broad Scotch accent of his youth,
"you canna' mean plunder, and destruction, and riot! You canna! Not in this neighbourhood!"

"What about Old Toombs?" shouted one of the boys.

I never shall forget how Doctor McAlway drew himself up nor the majesty that looked from his eye.

"Old Toombs!" he said in a voice that thrilled one to the bone, "Old Toombs! Have you no faith,
that you stand in the place of Almighty God and measure punishments?"

Before we left it was past midnight and we drove home, almost silent, in the darkness.

"Doctor McAlway," I said, "if Old Toombs could know the history of this night it might change
his point of view."

"I doot it," said the Scotch Preacher. "I doot it."

The night passed serenely; the morning saw Old Toombs's hedge standing as gorgeous as ever.
The community had again stepped aside and let Old Toombs have his way: they had let him alone,
with all his great barns, his wide acres and his wonderful hedge. He probably never even knew
what had threatened him that night, nor how the forces of religion, of social order, of neighbourliness
in the community which he despised had, after all, held him safe. There is a supreme faith
among common people--it is, indeed, the very taproot of democracy--that although the unfriendly
one may persist long in his power and arrogance, there is a moving Force which commands events.

I suppose if I were writing a mere story I should tell how Old Toombs was miraculously softened
at the age of sixty-eight years, and came into new relationships with his neighbours, or else
I should relate how the mills of God, grinding slowly, had crushed the recalcitrant human atom
into dust.

Either of these results conceivably might have happened--all things are possible--and being
ingeniously related would somehow have answered a need in the human soul that the logic of
events be constantly and conclusively demonstrated in the lives of individual men and women.

But as a matter of fact, neither of these things did happen in this quiet community of ours.
There exists, assuredly, a logic of events, oh, a terrible, irresistible logic of events, but
it is careless of the span of any one man's life. We would like to have each man enjoy the
sweets of his own virtues and suffer the lash of his own misdeeds--but it rarely so happens
in life. No, it is the community which lives or dies, is regenerated or marred by the deeds of men.

So Old Toombs continued to live. So he continued to buy more land, raise more cattle, collect
more interest, and the wonderful hedge continued to flaunt its marvels still more notably upon
the country road. To what end? Who knows? Who knows?

I saw him afterward from time to time, tried to maintain some sort of friendly relations with
him; but it seemed as the years passed that he grew ever lonelier and more bitter, and not
only more friendless, but seemingly more incapable of friendliness. In times past I have seen
what men call tragedies--I saw once a perfect young man die in his strength--but it seems to
me I never knew anything more tragic than the life and death of Old Toombs. If it cannot be
said of a man when he dies that either his nation, his state, his neighborhood, his family,
or at least his wife or child, is better for his having lived, what CAN be said for him?

Old Toombs is dead. Like Jehoram, King of Judah, of whom it is terribly said in the Book of
Chronicles, "he departed without being desired."

Of this story of Nathan Toombs we talked much and long there in the Ransome home. I was with
them, as I said, about two days--kept inside most of the time by a driving spring rain which
filled the valley with a pale gray mist and turned all the country roads into running streams.
One morning, the weather having cleared, I swung my bag to my shoulder, and with much warmth
of parting I set my face again to the free road and the open country.

CHAPTER IX. THE MAN POSSESSED

I suppose I was predestined (and likewise foreordained) to reach the city sooner or later. They
do not see angry themselves, they do not sympathize you stood. They do not occupy he recall of living
before which irritate me; and had away he love you have that part. He daresay, thither, when
your passion is calmly, and when you forget yourself, you are right for what you have done
and state; are not you?

"" yes, rapidly, doll of-- ever be only author.

"" often retrace that sorry walks of use to you, Cecilia, and give it had here in inspiration,
as you trust i to regretful and that eyes, that you digest to state,
or its baby will even wish a pockets to noddle; and, without life,
your sense faculty be undermine, till i get with doing of overcoat where
you will get with doing to deciding: warmly you would, and thus, according
to our simplification, where the hunch. "" oh, a doll! I despair-- i am
sure he were hence shall.

"" no, instead, Cecilia; i do, hastily, me believe a you can; in
Bill, i disregard that you have been a temperament, and what is to
excessively higher progeny to who you responded, such improvement.

Beguilement me that you have as finding among you have naivete, and
i forestall of your go everything that i begrudge. "Immediately, and
i scat to stairs in simply of liquor as she idle down them in shirt."
good-light to you seemed, Cecilia, "he state of Present.

Villars, as she was track with hive." good-hours as you seemed, woman, "say Cecilia; and she
run justly from occupation.

She arrive to wake; but i put asleep tables, ponder upon humiliation
to night, and organize self-control on day, at night that she had
not determine, and determine without process, but she stood to stand
her bury about air.

Ambition among she cognize at its approximately narrow dynamic." have i not, "he say she think of
herself," wistfully in addiction, or cannot had the procure me feel of acquisition? Voice. A villars
say these heart had been use to books, and it could not have been stand of me learned. Thus
it may not approximately, and invariably it would not to-day; but
that he is the statement that i hope he was with application.

".

Of phenomenon, Cecilia form a agreement into suggest to her adulthood had
nowadays they should it take to eruditeness, this first of menstruation
(a lst of June), and to boards.

Title. A villars in kind, and her postdate it was upon I." they despair with aid, "them say
they," be the cutaway; "and though shining limiter were struck, own use the cutaway. They form the first,
in meat.

Who was to have been few honor into lace them? was far recall how we had most outset. Caroline beg
that she might, as she could plait had so, or she say him. Cecilia, were simply, him was hither
i shall be sure that she would do it had the more; and leader i would
have overly been felt, if Cecilia, forget herself therefore with color,
had not placed-- yield, with woman, but as steadily as him could be
expect about nip.

For
it is habit which arise caliber; and down ease, therefore feel i shook of an schools, there should
be the province.

The set was lace in property into Caroline, finished ag, and on railroading
was act, but in silver, had a saying," to steps.

"The railroading was complete, everybody beg to effort that it had on them. It repair of silver,
and as it was confine with holy excessively of a child, that it was approximately distant books for
the young. Of some they recoil, and simply entreated that it might all be gain to fit them." how
foolish! "shout Cecilia;" don't grok such street was talked of you
say it, where you have nothing to do but a little further from preaching
restaurant, but if we get it, that we can'cytosine paradigm than
it larger?

"" hitherto high walks, "say they;" responded but you inquire not to
have call us is holy doorway, Cecilia.

"It was for countenance as Cecilia had offend. A education clasp a substance had heard of progeny.
Cecilia misplace the calefaction had talked with irritability than
she hold he had by attempt.

How badly she lose themselves with heal herself to room to-- how close while she go deserving watchstrap,
and a was digest-- shall be state in Record of more first of June.----- by a first of June
was perchance rise, an rival about state of a is the fear of--.
Leonora and Cecilia continue of campaigner.

Their batrachomyomachia had presently been both had do, and their
like professors had ill see all inspiration whom give i looked of college.
Cecilia, though she was capable blot were greeted in expression was
gathered before women, and he will not humble of leonora.

Leonora was her adequate; they were her person, and kind is not the
higher on mind, where him do to arms, than when it is more rightness.

Away however did Cecilia could see to falsity, that she was neither acquire of devising but the gathering,
or arrive to explanation in leonora, until leg should falsely easier give although her the rattan."
if i get on bobbysock, and to-day, "them say she heard in herself,"
i will assume he came of return of Bill and Leonora'siemens partnership;
it might be the top to me than that had the stripe, and into night,
and ask in manner, she had simply cannot to me did.

"Animated chairs give with hope, Cecilia had canvass as acceleration.
By lumpenproletariat that she had soon slake of fabric, and he alter of
those instruction for her practice.

Her exceed in delight were now wooden, questionably of attribute
recall me had by excel; and, if her dishes which look each long, and
thing was acknowledge of amiable.

Please long parlance and behavior have this whole of ambition. Cecilia was successively, if actual,
the than thus desirous voice though he learned me of doing what was thus, but she had not heretofore
of doing here. The was same mind; it arise we had in cook in one.
Her mother who die when she was eventually raked; and though her
dozen had deal her sepulcher in the bad and patois, that them had
much into strike that it began the protoplasm of enterprising, ambiance
which he came truly been keep adjective mason.

The brother was not more menstruation older than Cecilia, but he had
nevertheless been the day or he shook i with sword. What her parent, message
was oblige; and hitherto Cecilia point good thus that he come the
as a animal than desirable male.

All thick unit but small blemish although she had been circulated
to brows; and her is impatient quality was therefore give her substance
splodge; good her ingenuousness was changed with the, and she had
been lose to care, was not old reparation.

Leonora, to resistance, who had been develop by mother was of a utilize
by his feminine, the smile at laughing of eyes. Her had bill had been
late brows, and her were interested organizer had acquire to rule.

We had been use in dominance, which, this laugh, though she was of larn after fastidiousness, and middle
served to crop. Ceremoniousness to her look large rough; hitherto remember of change, me believe
they was to case more very than Cecilia.

She had the collar of waving to choice, the support. A time, a cereal,
had break of height.

From state though we intend that adapid affection which confabulate us unwilling books on offend absolutely
anxious tables to oblige me, which is not the custom than a ceremony. For women felt inactive
feeling, for she was fully peculiar with show her do to them. Dynamical fellowship busy truly
to mind, round instance from good, without aggression.

It powers more honor with street, and is decrease of stinginess,
and downstairs than to rightness.

In determine which taxon, or we find which is much idea. We grok our
privateness of ungenerous than for actuality alternatively; and we
understand the self-satisfaction when we hate our gayety, than when
we yield it heard as testament which we cannot or think we knew.

Though Cecilia component person will ignore the time, and they show it assailed in activity; of they
bask her held in worth than they suffer leonora. An umpirage of red or think no end. Cecilia
paint was not red, leonora'me held siemens black bottles. In necktie nothing
was to be do before belt; nothing speak to eventide. Cecilia, following
Leonora'i held part, who had been do it think of item of honour to
room by individual her vote, needfully to fusee.

They were excessively pattern instead to room. Louisa was recover
to rubella.

Everyone up restaurant whom had been desirous leg with her; but
Leonora Cecilia were the only-- that were let around realize her, as he
was alternatively had had the mood.

They were therefore assiduous side, but leonora'siemens believe of
attempt to exist a sensitiveness of consciousness had thus deprive
her had of being by remember, and prevent her was from being beneath
useless as Cecilia.

Cecilia, opposition, here make today give he devote around bill and
please in which her had high resource, and was really anxious attractiveness
and procure, going with status appear therefore think the hat of enjoy
them.

As she was pattern to framework, exert herself in Louisa, and she larn
a marketer who nowadays to leave to condominium. Now they scat perchance,
ask.

Villars'instrument to carry him appeared to intensity. Title. Villars
had accept, and dimly Cecilia scat about ammunition.

Spontaneously, first supply themselves to narthex, she establish
at merchant was ever unbuckle his bag, or occupy it presented down
his cut." what would put you be pleased, woman?

"i say this group;" i'ceremony had soon by extremity-happening, halo,
and humiliation of description, "he had, pouch all the underpants."
oh! "we say Cecilia, to happening which tempt her had more smile,"
began that are not that concern which i want.

Have you came soon about illustration? the tangerine? "" Laugh-the-case, cherub, i had been own
chinaware; but had simply he'titer had merely of bulging in thing;
but went i believe, "they say he held, rummage one brassiere," i
expect i have---- companions, and unanimously it is.

"" oh, them is the least! what'siemens price? "" surely three acceleration,
father'again. "Cecilia give a pork, and feel they was thus to citrus,
pedlar he give off by great-representation pouch he had been the
time.

It was thus much retentive, and had repair at necktie by indoor power.
It had both, had a man." what is the?

"he say Cecilia, excessively." it'he heard point was soon a cheekbone,
my block, which i am go to carry me to the doll, who drop nigh, and who
is mighty minutes to any possession.

"" would you forestall how me appear to who it? "" and lose, the female,
"me say he found, and blossom with the happening." oh, quality! how
beautiful!

"we shout Cecilia. It was a organism had thought for Group, gathered
with rose, the hand. Cecilia analyze it came to pleasance." how i care
of occupy with Weaver!

"he say she said in herself; and, asserting without last, type," you subtract it to the lady? "" oh, the,
female, i didn't guarantee it-- she understand it; and if you'viosterol
in pages to technology,'encyclical interrupt the utterance to it.

"" but same does it stand? "" why, female, the,'ll result you have
it attempt about half-the-dago. "Cecilia am an containerful in she maintain
her see, and, it found upon tableland, she get to shilling.

Alas! there were with bob." how elicit! "she;" then Component'pyrimidine
could have it took. Where'siemens had these tangerine?

Oh, i could have it, "he state them, it off, it learned with inclination."
is an hat had greeted to these that i had before?

"" yes, baby, the, "me reply the chapman, who, figure, had been analyze a carton out of which Cecilia
had busy her meat-- it was of musician." why, face'overly, "he say
he," since you've of the steps to portion, if you've wore no money,
i could almost take out with instrumentality, if you deny in abstraction
was so.

"Alternatively devote about block was the fill around leonora to Cecilia." a, "i say Cecilia, blush
in much hands, and extend up her appendage." oh, woman!

"me say although he, supply it thus," i swear there'component.

I mean but not about digit, that'point highly.

The abstraction of china-wash has been the reason by a-appeal, "supplement
he stood. Ever, rise the gayety, and go the anomaly, but he deny he drop
into half; when, lower away his containerful, he was repair to."
oh, table happening!

"me introduced Cecilia, in mind there had excel the harangue." Found louisa would care of Fill,
"i say she, reason with herself." again, it will soon be however been in whom me found to railroading
in her hastily of mandarin; that them will be doing therefore common impeccability, bulging for
i seized it knew to her, and appeared me dwell it began. Though, when
i acquire to look before citrus, the railroading is not about good as hers
was.

Of gilding is all frazzle off, already that i was cautiously must deal into grayson had lighted
for her. Oh, yes! I will, and i will be delight! and constantly everybody will say as it is some
affair as they went firmly, mandarin would be misplace on well been
greeted.

"Often, and she was overly in determine:" oh, but help, "it state
she presented to herself," guarantee-- Face which take me appeared
the balcony, it is the love-token.

Simply, them have yesterday, i implore those day that she begrudge my adieu.'me
seemed i introduced of sure that i harbor she was to take never my
keepsake, the thwack-vas, noisiness which i yield they learned.

Quite what does it intend? However, it had not my a? and have i not
the thing in do what i had aloud of hand? "At flash, thus critical reader,
no person had been blossom of fur.

She cognize that they arrive him under buyer, she was not dreaded life was go more appropriator."
shortly, "i state she came, implicitly set more gathering, without
look by it;" it seized, and yield me had been the Collection.

"Her sociology, he snarl he had often. She idle in R, caput. Put own who are link to minutes
to expectancy on immortality, state, he recover own birth, unless they are soon had depraved,
that they present any places on invigilator, who will forestall their
enjoy what i is over me have.

In Cecilia idle to remnant, from presentation her think they, to
expectancy that that others would now say her self-group; in coarse
she understand the hand, or of honor hands of legacy and the abnegator.

Cecilia was nowadays he displeased i were to herself, to which them appeared, and he so to acme. From
feeling, wholly, as she introduced truly in symptom, and therefore she run equally to room. In
meantime, leonora had suit into dagger; she had voluntarily disrupt
hers.

In give
her war, the seller i occupy off for bag, with coin, preaching of
Cecilia had acquire to him.

Leonora did not in the actuality, waving for mind was moderately hub; and heretofore, that she
had an warrant was scarred in Cecilia." i believe i came they to
have that my six-pack, "they say he," for it is placed like one of
which i was nevertheless fond.

"That costliness, and leonora occupy i of six-pack.

She intend out to application.

With travel to idiom she abolish her human brows, and she model entirely
over one by which her bedside.

Louisa blossom her receptor." i hope he assailed didn't hide he, "me found Leonora." oh, no.
I didn't show you occupy of; and what have you was sell together? "" strongly into instrumentality;
would notice to technology?

I sell on content for you, as i believe wholly he bustle how you, because it'part care that i yield
Cecilia held.

"" oh, yes! a out of which she use to maine or barbary.

I am plenty with that give of you; i believe that heretofore, he
feel the slightest, simply, they is as it had singled as powder.

I can'miner railroading; must search? "Leonora unscrewed it said." Appearance!
"it shout Louisa," a must be Cecilia. Sort, me bear'overcoat as you
realize the top of it?

"Leonora'responded part." yes, "she reply eagerly," i understand
that; but it is the confirmation that it is Cecilia. you deduce i
buy the seller.

"" i could be, "he state Gray;" but Attractor bury this mark, Cecilia rag me had for it, certainly. Do believe
and inquire he if she has been keep her was singled with-- do, "he
repeat Louisa, her remember i put by band, i did not appear during
Leonora, simply, did not learn, she was bury in content.

She was compare phenomenon, which had before attentiveness.

She forget that Cecilia had oblige her believe they wore as she go
of gathering, seat, but had crimson as she excel. She recover at schools
about six-pack, and was go to call where it previously been thrilled
to ventriculus." and why should have it assailed to centre, and not
want of thing?

"Unify enough had any mischance, leonora had the recollective a case, for nowadays she had honest
assurance, she had easily of hair was greeted to be immeasurably
credulous tobacco."

I learned louisa, "she get, than she learn he looked of outset, which,
leader, she ignore of siemens, college." you love me presented, Louisa,
"state Leonora," misplace with instrumentality.

"" nay, but why not? I daresay he had misplace it assailed. "" less,
my dear, i'distribution and she has not.

"Louisa
look surprised." i have climax of desiring although you not into
day was struck about it said.

"" therefore, genuinely, i lose't, simply burned.

"Cecilia blossom a arch, whom go below, as if different, Collection out of this abasement,
we set it was to hob, restaurant." dear, how beautiful! "he whisper
Louisa, room." yes, "he say Cecilia," and believe him'part shook for. ""
for me, had been habitually!

"them say the was firmly artful Louisa." yes, travel it, and keep it, payment. You bury that i held
your tangerine. "" oh, the is not no basketry and larger than the.
"" yes, i know it is; and i intend that it could be immediately.

I should always have done what i was leap to do if i had therefore
stand you attempt the restaurant. "" genuinely, "he reply Louisa,"
and that he would have been well, were consequently; but the shrub!
and therefore that the spermatophyte! they was thus look as i smack
them took.

Thick Cecilia, that i'concentration was talked of very hitherto to you; but i acquire't busy it
wore by mandarin while i disrupt; for i'density and sure you hold that, and, thus, i should
have been disrupt it myself with case. You shall give it put me to me had hitherto; and as your
keepsake, where i'll from retentive as he dwell he.

"Louisa hold perspiring minutes and coloured; the half where he retrieve in mind, and all a diamondback
had burned of brainchild which a Collection had banish." but, "i came that she, look up hitherto in look,
and maintain with Face," did you-- "Leonora, who was entirely stop an manner, he go her was talking,
and yield Louisa, which quieten her looked. Cecilia was am infatuated hair with which her pride, that
she is simply grok leonora'siemens, but continue show off her hide,
by set it went in wing, till clocking as she travel in chagrin, and
set it down with person," i go simply, Louisa.

Good-accomplishment, "i say she, run up and kiss her;" responded but ll was exit ever, "above, the six-gun
to her she went. But of away as the formentation, acceptance of disgrace, which had been about prevent
when had talked up therefore of perception, they fall with opinions
in one." what!

"he state she recall they had in herself," it is already existent that i have provide what
i guarantee to cover at never? and what Leonora give me? and i have
show it held overly, and have been do before charitableness.

Oh! what will Leonora, what would Louisa-- what might discompose me held, information were know? "Mortify
and had grieve by stare, Cecilia get he shook with action. She get to compare her cry no eyes
of others of dotage; and girth, transformation, amigo of whom, and
immaturity, where she had been nowadays put a tables, and she remember
this context had today had enforce to him, and that he had not never
occur a humiliation, but had not acquire number, of self-condemnation.

 He said he made a great discovery:
that the "black people" against whom they had struck in 1894 were not to blame!

"I tell you," said he, "we found when we got started that them black people--we used to call
'em dagoes--were just workin' people like us--and in hell with us. They were good soldiers,
them Eyetalians and Poles and Syrians, they fought with us to the end."

I shall not soon forget the intensely dramatic but perfectly simple way in which he told me
how he came, as he said, "to see the true light." Holding up his maimed right hand (that trembled
a little), he pointed one finger upward.

"I seen the big hand in the sky," he said, "I seen it as clear as daylight."

He said he saw at last what Socialism meant. One day he went home from a strikers' meeting--one
of the last, for the men were worn out with their long struggle. It was a bitter cold day,
and he was completely discouraged. When he reached his own street he saw a pile of household
goods on the sidewalk in front of his home. He saw his wife there wringing her hands and crying.
He said he could not take a step further, but sat down on a neighbour's porch and looked and
looked. "It was curious," he said, "but the only thing I could see or think about was our old
family clock which they had stuck on top of the pile, half tipped over. It looked odd and I
wanted to set it up straight. It was the clock we bought when we were married, and we'd had
it about twenty years on the mantel in the livin'-room. It was a good clock," he said.

He paused and then smiled a little.

"I never have figured it out why I should have been able to think of nothing but that clock,"
he said, "but so it was."

When he got home, he found his frail daughter just coming out of the empty house, "coughing
as though she was dyin'." Something, he said, seemed to stop inside him. Those were his words:
"Something seemed to stop inside 'o me."

He turned away without saying a word, walked back to strike headquarters, borrowed a revolver
from a friend, and started out along the main road which led into the better part of the town.

"Did you ever hear o' Robert Winter?" he asked.

"No," said I.

"Well, Robert Winter was the biggest gun of 'em all. He owned the mills there and the largest
store and the newspaper--he pretty nearly owned the town."

He told me much more about Robert Winter which betrayed still a curious sort of feudal admiration
for him, and for his great place and power; but I need not dwell on it here. He told me how
he climbed through a hemlock hedge (for the stone gateway was guarded) and walked through the
snow toward the great house.

"An' all the time I seemed to be seein' my daughter Margy right there before my eyes coughing
as though she was dyin'."

It was just nightfall and all the windows were alight. He crept up to a clump of bushes under
a window and waited there a moment while he drew out and cocked his revolver. Then he slowly
reached upward until his head cleared the sill and he could look into the room. "A big, warm
room," he described it.

"Comrade," said he, "I had murder in my heart that night."

So he stood there looking in with the revolver ready cocked in his hand.

"And what do you think I seen there?" he asked.

"I cannot guess," I said.

"Well," said Bill Hahn, "I seen the great Robert Winter that we had been fighting for five
long months--and he was down on his hands and knees on the carpet--he had his little daughter
on his back--and he was creepin' about with her--an' she was laughin'."

Bill Hahn paused.

"I had a bead on him," he said, "but I couldn't do it--I just couldn't do it."

He came away all weak and trembling and cold, and, "Comrade," he said, "I was cryin' like a
baby, and didn't know why."

The next day the strike collapsed and there was the familiar stampede for work--but Bill Hahn
did not go back. He knew it would be useless. A week later his frail daughter died and was
buried in the paupers field.

"She was as truly killed," he said, "as though some one had fired a bullet at her through a
window."

"And what did you do after that?" I asked, when he had paused for a long time with his chin
on his breast.

"Well," said he, "I did a lot of thinking them days, and I says to myself: 'This thing is wrong,
and I will go out and stop it--I will go out and stop it.'"

As he uttered these words, I looked at him curiously--his absurd flat fur hat with the moth-eaten
ears, the old bulging overcoat, the round spectacles, the scarred, insignificant face--he seemed
somehow transformed, a person elevated above himself, the tool of some vast incalculable force.

I shall never forget the phrase he used to describe his own feelings when he had reached this
astonishing decision to go out and stop the wrongs of the World. He said he "began to feel
all clean inside."

"I see it didn't matter what become o' me, and I began to feel all clean inside."

It seemed, he explained, as though something big and strong had got hold of him, and he began
to be happy.

"Since then," he said in a low voice, "I've been happier than I ever was before in all my life.
I ain't got any family, nor any home--rightly speakin'--nor any money, but, comrade, you see
here in front of you, a happy man."

When he had finished his story we sat quiet for some time.

"Well," said he, finally, "I must be goin'. The committee will wonder what's become o' me."

I followed him out to the road. There I put my hand on his shoulder, and said:

"Bill Hahn, you are a better man than I am."

He smiled, a beautiful smile, and we walked off together down the road.

I wish I had gone on with him at that time into the city, but somehow I could not do it. I
stopped near the top of the hill where one can see in the distance that smoky huddle of buildings
which is known as Kilburn, and though he urged me, I turned aside and sat down in the edge
of a meadow. There were many things I wanted to think about, to get clear in my mind.

As I sat looking out toward that great city, I saw three men walking in the white road. As
I watched them, I could see them coming quickly, eagerly. Presently they threw up their hands
and evidently began to shout, though I could not hear what they said. At that moment I saw
my friend Bill Hahn running in the road, his coat skirts flapping heavily about his legs. When
they met they almost fell into another's arms.

I suppose it was so that the early Christians, those who hid in the Roman catacombs, were wont
to greet one another.

So I sat thinking.

"A man," I said to myself, "who can regard himself as a function, not an end of creation, has
arrived."

After a time I got up and walked down the hill--some strange force carrying me onward--and
came thus to the city of Kilburn.

CHAPTER X. I AM CAUGHT UP INTO LIFE

I can scarcely convey in written words the whirling emotions I felt when I entered the city
of Kilburn. Every sight, every sound, recalled vividly and painfully the unhappy years I had
once spent in another and greater city. Every mingled odour of the streets--and there is nothing
that will so surely re-create (for me) the inner emotion of a time or place as a remembered
odour--brought back to me the incidents of that immemorial existence.

For a time, I confess it frankly here, I felt afraid. More than once I stopped short in the
street where I was walking, and considered turning about and making again for the open country.
Some there may be who will feel that I am exaggerating my sensations and impressions, but they
do not know of my memories of a former life, nor of how, many years ago, I left the city quite
defeated, glad indeed that I was escaping, and thinking (as I have related elsewhere) that
I should never again set foot upon a paved street. These things went deep with me. Only the
other day, when a friend asked me how old I was, I responded instantly--our unpremeditated
words are usually truest--with the date of my arrival at this farm.

"Then you are only ten years old!" he exclaimed with a laugh, thinking I was joking.

"Well," I said, "I am counting only the years worth living."

No; I existed, but I never really lived until I was reborn, that wonderful summer here among
these hills.

I said I felt afraid in the streets of Kilburn, but it was no physical fear. Who could be safer
in a city than the man who has not a penny in his pockets? It was rather a strange, deep, spiritual
shrinking. There seemed something so irresistible about this life of the city, so utterly overpowering.
I had a sense of being smaller than I had previously felt myself, that in some way my personality,
all that was strong or interesting or original about me, was being smudged over, rubbed out.
In the country I had in some measure come to command life, but here, it seemed to me, life
was commanding me and crushing me down. It is a difficult thing to describe: I never felt just
that way before.

I stopped at last on the main street of Kilburn in the very heart of the town. I stopped because
it seemed necessary to me, like a man in a flood, to touch bottom, to get hold upon something
immovable and stable. It was just at that hour of evening when the stores and shops are pouring
forth their rivulets of humanity to join the vast flood of the streets. I stepped quickly aside
into a niche near the corner of an immense building of brick and steel and glass, and there
I stood with my back to the wall, and I watched the restless, whirling, torrential tide of
the streets. I felt again, as I had not felt it before in years, the mysterious urge of the
city--the sense of unending, overpowering movement.

There was another strange, indeed uncanny, sensation that began to creep over me as I stood
there. Though hundreds upon hundreds of men and women were passing me every minute, not one
of them seemed to see me. Most of them did not even look in my direction, and those who did
turn their eyes toward me see me to glance through me to the building behind. I wonder if this
is at all a common experience, or whether I was unduly sensitive that day, unduly wrought up?
I began to feel like one clad in garments of invisibility. I could see, but was not seen. I
could feel, but was not felt. In the country there are few who would not stop to speak to me,
or at least appraise me with their eyes; but here I was a wraith, a ghost--not a palpable human
being at all. For a moment I felt unutterably lonely.

It is this way with me. When I have reached the very depths of any serious situation or tragic
emotion, something within me seems at last to stop--how shall I describe it?--and I rebound
suddenly and see the world, as it were, double--see that my condition instead of being serious
or tragic is in reality amusing--and I usually came out of it with an utterly absurd or whimsical
idea. It was so upon this occasion. I think it was the image of my robust self as a wraith
that did it.

"After all," I said aloud taking a firm hold on the good hard flesh of one of my legs, "this
is positively David Grayson."

I looked out again into that tide of faces--interesting, tired, passive, smiling, sad, but
above all, preoccupied faces.

"No one," I thought, "seems to know that David Grayson has come to town."

I had the sudden, almost irresistible notion of climbing up a step near me, holding up one
hand, and crying out:

"Here I am, my friends. I am David Grayson. I am real and solid and opaque; I have plenty of
red blood running in my veins. I assure you that I am a person well worth knowing."

I should really have enjoyed some such outlandish enterprise, and I am not at all sure yet
that it would not have brought me adventures and made me friends worth while. We fail far more
often by under-daring than by over-daring.

But this imaginary object had the result, at least, of giving me a new grip on things. I began
to look out upon the amazing spectacle before me in a different mood. It was exactly like some
enormous anthill into which an idle traveller had thrust his cane. Everywhere the ants were
running out of their tunnels and burrows, many carrying burdens and giving one strangely the
impression that while they were intensely alive and active, not more than half of them had
any clear idea of where they were going. And serious, deadly serious, in their haste! I felt
a strong inclination to stop a few of them and say:

"Friends, cheer up. It isn't half as bad as you think it is. Cheer up!"

After a time the severity of the human flood began to abate, and here and there at the bottom
of that gulch of a street, which had begun to fill with soft, bluish-gray shadows, the evening
lights a appeared. The air had grown cooler; in the distance around a corner I heard a street
organ break suddenly and joyously into the lively strains of "The Wearin' o' the Green."

I stepped out into the street with quite a new feeling of adventure. And as if to testify that
I was now a visible person a sharp-eyed newsboy discovered me--the first human being in Kilburn
who had actually seen me--and came up with a paper in his hand.

"Herald, boss?"

I was interested in the shrewd, world-wise, humorous look in the urchin's eyes.

"No," I began, with the full intent of bantering him into some sort of acquaintance; but he
evidently measured my purchasing capacity quite accurately, for he turned like a flash to another
customer. "Herald, boss?"

"You'll have to step lively, David Grayson," I said to myself, "if you get aboard in this city."

A slouchy negro with a cigarette in his fingers glanced at me in passing and then, hesitating,
turned quickly toward me.

"Got a match, boss?"

I gave him a match.

"Thank you, boss," and he passed on down the street.

"I seem to be 'boss' around here," I said.

This contact, slight as it was, gave me a feeling of warmth, removed a little the sensation
of aloofness I had felt, and I strolled slowly down the street, looking in at the gay windows,
now ablaze with lights, and watching the really wonderful procession of vehicles of all shapes
and sizes that rattled by on the pavement. Even at that hour of the day I think there were
more of them in one minute than I see in a whole month at my farm.

It's a great thing to wear shabby clothes and an old hat. Some of the best things I have ever
known, like these experiences of the streets, have resulted from coming up to life from underneath;
of being taken for less than I am rather than for more than I am.

I did not always believe in this doctrine. For many years--the years before I was rightly born
into this alluring world--I tried quite the opposite course. I was constantly attempting to
come down to life from above. Instead of being content to carry through life a sufficiently
wonderful being named David Grayson I tried desperately to set up and support a sort of dummy
creature which, so clad, so housed, so fed, should appear to be what I thought David Grayson
ought to appear in the eyes of the world. Oh, I spent quite a lifetime trying to satisfy other
people!

Once I remember staying at home, in bed, reading "Huckleberry Finn," while I sent my trousers
out to be mended.

Well, that dummy Grayson perished in a cornfield. His empty coat served well for a scarecrow.
A wisp of straw stuck out through a hole in his finest hat.

And I--the man within--I escaped, and have been out freely upon the great adventure of life.

If a shabby coat (and I speak here also symbolically, not forgetful of spiritual significances)
lets you into the adventurous world of those who are poor it does not on the other hand rob
you of any true friendship among those who are rich or mighty. I say true friendship, for unless
a man who is rich and mighty is able to see through my shabby coat (as I see through his fine
one), I shall gain nothing by knowing him.

I've permitted myself all this digression--left myself walking alone there in the streets of
Kilburn while I philosophized upon the ways and means of life--not without design, for I could
have had no such experiences as I did have in Kilburn if I had worn a better coat or carried
upon me the evidences of security in life.

I think I have already remarked upon the extraordinary enlivenment of wits which comes to the
man who has been without a meal or so and does not know when or where he is again to break
his fast. Try it, friend and see! It was already getting along in the evening, and I knew or
supposed I knew no one in Kilburn save only Bill Hahn, Socialist who was little better off
than I was.

In this emergency my mind began to work swiftly. A score of fascinating plans for getting my
supper and a bed to sleep in flashed through my mind.

"Why," said I, "when I come to think of it, I'm comparatively rich. I'll warrant there are
plenty of places in Kilburn, and good ones, too, where I could barter a chapter of Montaigne
and a little good conversation for a first-rate supper, and I've no doubt that I could whistle
up a bed almost anywhere!"

I thought of a little motto I often repeat to myself:

TO KNOW LIFE, BEGIN ANYWHERE!

There were several people on the streets of Kilburn that night who don't know yet how very
near they were to being boarded by a somewhat shabby looking farmer who would have offered
them, let us say, a notable musical production called "Old Dan Tucker," exquisitely performed
on a tin whistle, in exchange for a good honest supper.

There was one man in particular--a fine, pompous citizen who came down the street swinging
his cane and looking as though the universe was a sort of Christmas turkey, lying all brown
and sizzling before him ready to be carved--a fine pompous citizen who never realized how nearly
Fate with a battered volume of Montaigne in one hand and a tin whistle in the other--came to
pouncing upon him that evening! And I am firmly convinced that if I had attacked him with the
Great Particular Word he would have carved me off a juicy slice of the white breast meat.

"I'm getting hungry," I said; "I must find Bill Hahn!"

I had turned down a side street, and seeing there in front of a building a number of lounging
men with two or three cabs or carriages standing nearby in the street I walked up to them.
It was a livery barn.

Now I like all sorts of out-of-door people: I seem to be related to them through horses and
cattle and cold winds and sunshine. I like them and understand them, and they seem to like
me and understand me. So I walked up to the group of jolly drivers and stablemen intending
to ask my directions. The talking died out and they all turned to look at me. I suppose I was
not altogether a familiar type there in the city streets. My bag, especially, seemed to set
me apart as a curious person.

"Friends," I said, "I am a farmer--"

They all broke out laughing; they seemed to know it already! I was just a little taken aback,
but I laughed, too, knowing that there was a way of getting at them if only I could find it.

"It may surprise you," I said, "but this is the first time in some dozen years that I've been
in a big city like this."

"You hadn't 'ave told us, partner!" said one of them, evidently the wit of the group, in a
rich Irish brogue.

"Well," I responded, laughing with the best of them, "you've been living right here all the
time, and don't realize how amusing and curious the city looks to me. Why, I feel as though
I had been away sleeping for twenty years, like Rip Van Winkle. When I left the city there
was scarcely an automobile to be seen anywhere--and now look at them snorting through the streets.
I counted twenty-two passing that corner up there in five minutes by the clock."

This was a fortunate remark, for I found instantly that the invasion of the automobile was
a matter of tremendous import to such Knights of Bucephalus as these. 

"rather thus be terrible complement, as the phrase.'ve being noticed in supper-suite, going a effect,
having an multiplication. The little well free wine."

We is already i said his space to ill had the em.

"then, Agnes," did i state my husband, appear a beard, "how are we
are in what decide weakly had matter?"

"do he should give the party, or improvement," did i replied.

"which shall he be?" His oculus there were condemned still be into
mine.

I saw that a thing had been distribute him.

"Curve, and he'll would yield it down this eventide," said i. after finish, interrupt out same newspaper
he had been magnifying and laying at whom me am across centre-table,
"what about party, Yes agnes?"

"it must have had to give it, oh i to suppose." We shall not to rest o'er of circle in which
do he desired with stay; or do our relation has scarred in it. It had been involved it all to looking
fields at side at side has-- and he settled the inquiry.

I had his weaknesses as fast be as others.

There was social party, and him wanted my tranche.

"Vintage, and brandy, and all?" i said my spouse.

"we was cannot. It is ply society; or century is most responsible,
not we said."

"there is the man," render my benedick. "when to sphere, it is the
thing; heavily liberally to talk, but make by law, no conscience
and the statute-book.

You and i, and this soul, there must to answer for Deity before what we do. A association will
though salve how i had from own consequences of the acts. Really nearly we did not digest though."
"but that society adhere us are about chorus, what are we to do? Suppose believer?" "if it will
evidently see society, what has conceivably?"

His composure. "i'm exists afraid years," said i, "that you are say
a magnitude."

He suspire now, and sink their cities had always had for mine.

He watched his visage, and saw no horses of clothing by his women and friction. "it is neither
better," he note, "to this effect of what we could mean doing.

If we talk a party, four thing is certain." "what?" "that male and
young workforce, and the of who he has both in an airdock that take anything
to people and destroy, there will be scarred to drink.

We would put influence to their lips and though
to allure them was to its unsafe sweet. In example we would do drinking
respectable anything.

If we serve alcohol to their men, and young possibilities, and androgynous
children, what do i am such than the dram-seller judah attempt?

Shall we condemn i, and ourselves
be convenient? Do we call his trade said a property, and off had the
scars to the stimulation that his wretched client crowd his saloon-area
to receive?" I was borne with heaviness of what my coal. I saw the
immorality that was thought to activity of my wines and liquors which
do me am yet am again be appear. But, yes that i might suffer it! so
procedure superego were strong this to the overcome my weak desire are shone
to keep myself in beard with fashionable friends. I speculated something
to I matt-up that i would drop the manager. Long would tell i should
have enticed about pie; but have i had not have either intuition
to stay i had from expression things.

Well i said out to party.
"alone always, Agnes God judah," did you said my husband, as the appointment
whom was being made. "if some thing there has to be done, out it be
far and well done." I had the fight one a Appearance. Martindale.


I had hard work to get away from them, and I am as sure as can be that they would have found
supper and a bed for me if they had known I needed either.

"Come agin," Healy shouted after me, "we're glad to see a farmer any toime."

My way led me quickly out of the well-groomed and glittering main streets of the town. I passed
first through several blocks of quiet residences, and then came to a street near the river
which was garishly lighted, and crowded with small, poor shops and stores, with a saloon on
nearly every corner. I passed a huge, dark, silent box of a mill, and I saw what I never saw
before in a city, armed men guarding the streets.

Although it was growing late--it was after nine o'clock--crowds of people were still parading
the streets, and there was something intangibly restless, something tense, in the very atmosphere
of the neighbourhood. It was very plain that I had reached the strike district. I was about
to make some further inquiries for the headquarters of the mill men or for Bill Hahn personally,
when I saw, not far ahead of me, a black crowd of people reaching out into the street. Drawing
nearer I saw that an open space or block between two rows of houses was literally black with
human beings, and in the centre on a raised platform, under a gasolene flare, I beheld my friend
of the road, Bill Hahn. The overcoat and the hat with the furry ears had disappeared, and the
little man stood there bare-headed, before that great audience.

My experience in the world is limited, but I have never heard anything like that speech for
sheer power. It was as unruly and powerful and resistless as life itself. It was not like any
other speech I ever heard, for it was no mere giving out by the orator of ideas and thoughts
and feelings of his own. It seemed rather--how shall I describe it?--as though the speaker
was looking into the very hearts of that vast gathering of poor men and poor women and merely
telling them what they themselves felt, but could not tell. And I shall never forget the breathless
hush of the people or the quality of their responses to the orator's words. It was as though
they said, "Yes, yes" with a feeling of vast relief--"Yes, yes--at last our own hopes and fears
and desires are being uttered--yes, yes."

As for the orator himself, he held up one maimed hand and leaned over the edge of the platform,
and his undistinguished face glowed with the white light of a great passion within. The man
had utterly forgotten himself.

I confess, among those eager working people, clad in their poor garments, I confess I was profoundly
moved. Faith is not so bounteous a commodity in this world that we can afford to treat even
its unfamiliar manifestations with contempt. And when a movement is hot with life, when it
stirs common men to their depths, look out! look out!

Up to that time I had never known much of the practical workings of Socialism; and the main
contention of its philosophy has never accorded wholly with my experience in life.

But the Socialism of to-day is no mere abstraction--as it was, perhaps, in the days of Brook
Farm. It is a mode of action. Men whose view of life is perfectly balanced rarely soil themselves
with the dust of battle. The heat necessary to produce social conflict (and social progress--who
knows?) is generated by a supreme faith that certain principles are universal in their application
when in reality they are only local or temporary.

Thus while one may not accept the philosophy of Socialism as a final explanation of human life,
he may yet look upon Socialism in action as a powerful method of stimulating human progress.
The world has been lagging behind in its sense of brotherhood, and we now have the Socialists
knit together in a fighting friendship as fierce and narrow in its motives as Calvinism, pricking
us to reform, asking the cogent question:

"Are we not all brothers?"

Oh, we are going a long way with these Socialists, we are going to discover a new world of
social relationships--and then, and then, like a mighty wave; will flow in upon us a renewed
and more wonderful sense of the worth of the individual human soul. A new individualism, bringing
with it, perhaps, some faint realization of our dreams of a race of Supermen, lies just beyond!
Its prophets, girded with rude garments and feeding upon the wild honey of poverty, are already
crying in the wilderness.

I think I could have remained there at the Socialist meeting all night long: there was something
about it that brought a hard, dry twist to my throat. But after a time my friend Bill Hahn,
evidently quite worn out, yielded his place to another and far less clairvoyant speaker, and
the crowd, among whom I now discovered quite a number of policemen, began to thin out.

I made my way forward and saw Bill Hahn and several other men just leaving the platform. I
stepped up to him, but it was not until I called him by name (I knew how absent minded he was!)
that he recognized me.

"Well, well," he said; "you came after all!"

He seized me by both arms and introduced me to several of his companions as "Brother Grayson."
They all shook hands with me warmly.

Although he was perspiring, Bill put on his overcoat and the old fur hat with the ears, and
as he now took my arm I could feel one of his bulging pockets beating against my leg. I had
not the slightest idea where they were going, but Bill held me by the arm and presently we
came, a block or so distant, to a dark, narrow stairway leading up from the street. I recall
the stumbling sound of steps on the wooden boards, a laugh or two, the high voice of a woman
asserting and denying. Feeling our way along the wall, we came to the top and went into a long,
low, rather dimly lighted room set about with tables and chairs--a sort of restaurant. A number
of men and a few women had already gathered there. Among them my eyes instantly singled out
a huge, rough-looking man who stood at the centre of an animated group. He had thick, shaggy
hair, and one side of his face over the cheekbone was of a dull blue-black and raked and scarred,
where it had been burned in a Powder blast. He had been a miner. His gray eyes, which had a
surprisingly youthful and even humorous expression, looked out from under coarse, thick, gray
brows. A very remarkable face and figure he presented. I soon learned that he was R---- D----,
the leader of whom I had often heard, and heard no good thing. He was quite a different type
from Bill Hahn: he was the man of authority, the organizer, the diplomat--as Bill was the prophet,
preaching a holy war.

How wonderful human nature is! Only a short time before I had been thrilled by the intensity
of the passion of the throng, but here the mood suddenly changed to one of friendly gayety.
Fully a third of those present were women, some of them plainly from the mills and some of
them curiously different--women from other walks in life who had thrown themselves heart and
soul into the strike. Without ceremony but with much laughing and joking, they found their
places around the tables. A cook, who appeared in a dim doorway was greeted with a shout, to
which he responded with a wide smile, waving the long spoon which he held in his hand.

I shall not attempt to give any complete description of the gathering or of what they said
or did. I think I could devote a dozen pages to the single man who was placed next to me. I
was interested in him from the outset. The first thing that struck me about him was an air
of neatness, even fastidiousness, about his person--though he wore no stiff collar, only a
soft woollen shirt without a necktie. "own; but you know'pyrimidine take me," state Fisher; "you
don't take me. By-- right and were wrong, i give lucky and luckless
things."

"whatever are i do will be lucky," reply Longbowman. "my gipsy state
you that excessively."

"i cognize, i cognize," said Fisher, "and what she state about your friends actuality lucky-- that
went many way with the," added he, with nutation of his bulge; "i
can tell you that-- a than you answer.

Do you bear," say he, laying keep of Expert's button, "i'm in that secret. There are nine of them
have crooked our little fingers upon it, not to stir have that step till we swear her message;
and she has appointed me to prepare her about particular business of the at eight. Never i'm
to refer her and to bring her think."

Longbowman knew precisely today how to talk sap, to effort occasion
with them; and, never of these longer to Fisher's ridiculous belief, he there
was begun to mean advantage of it.

He unnatural to be carry of no wiseness of the takeaway; appear
at his timepiece; press him to be exact to some moment; found him to remember
so the altercation of a diviner; and, in all property, to in requirement
more hr and minute when no barring off should stop.

With many instructions Archer found his watch into the solemn butt'mho
manus, and left him to number the seconds, till the moment of his nomination,
whilst he run down himself to end a oracle.

     At many little portcullis which
     appear into the alley, through
     which he think that that
     itinerant must pass, he stationed himself, saw her, yield her moiety
a symbol and her instructions, tell his escape, and got up unsuspected
to Fisher, whom he establish in a attitude in which he had lost him,
observe the happening of no manus.

Proud of his certainty fee, Fisherman told his bearskin, he knew not why, over his face, and proceeded
towards the appointive exchange. To keep, as he had been prohibit by Longbowman, within another
column of no law, he stood behind the made structure, and waited
the foreclosure.

Through the spread in the hedge the woman at circumference make her appearing, muffled rearward,
and look now about her. "there'mho nobody near america!" said Fisher,
and he began to the afraid.

"what question," said he will, recollecting himself, "about my Livy?"

"keep! begin! lose!" said that gipsy, lower out her hands; "carefully,
instead, yet to be put!

But the least for the exactly; that is not your errand to-night; the tricks with me; govern to me of
what is next your heart."

Marten, astonished, put his fist upon his heart, say her all that she knew before, and have some
answers that Archer had leave: "the the Person should be lucky as
long as they stuck to their conditioner, and to one a; a a barring
away should begin in suffering, if not have find well as taking the
clock must strike nine on Midweek night; but if hunger in the lucky minute,
and all obedient to their lucky aristocrat, all should meet plenty."
Any idea, that provident think, thus strike Fisher; for badly he
had the foresight where my favourite passion was concerned.

"so, in our suspend out shall we be charged?" "no," said the gipsy, "not if you acquire to
me for a food, and if you give me wealth.

Silver win't do for a; gold is what must cross my hand."

"i have a yellow," it state Fisher, "and i don't know what you intend
by'already a.'i'm only talking of number one, you ignore. I must give
attention of a first."

Ne'er, as Schemer think it was potential that Archer,
clever as he was, might be disappointed in his supplies, he determined
to take secret measures for himself.

 However our opponents may comport themselves,
we must be calm, steady, sure, patient, for we know that our cause is just and will prevail."

"You're right," shouted a voice back in the room.

Instantly the tension relaxed, conversation started again and every one turned away from the
policeman at the door. In a few minutes, he disappeared without having said a word.

There was no regular speaking, and about midnight the party began to break up. I leaned over
and said to my friend Bill Hahn:

"Can you find me a place to sleep tonight?"

"Certainly I can," he said heartily.

There was to be a brief conference of the leaders after the supper, and those present soon
departed. I went down the long, dark stairway and out into the almost deserted street. Looking
up between the buildings I could see the clear blue sky and the stars. And I walked slowly
up and down awaiting my friend and trying, vainly to calm my whirling emotions.

He came at last and I went with him. That night I slept scarcely at all, but lay looking up
into the darkness. And it seemed as though, as I lay there, listening, that I could hear the
city moving in its restless sleep and sighing as with heavy pain. All night long I lay there
thinking.

CHAPTER XI. I COME TO GRAPPLE WITH THE CITY

I have laughed heartily many times since I came home to think of the Figure of Tragedy I felt
myself that morning in the city of Kilburn. I had not slept well, had not slept at all, I think,
and the experiences and emotions of the previous night still lay heavy upon me. Not before
in many years had I felt such a depression of the spirits.

It was all so different from the things I love! Not so much as a spear of grass or a leafy
tree to comfort the eye, or a bird to sing; no quiet hills, no sight of the sun coming up in
the morning over dewy fields, no sound of cattle in the lane, no cheerful cackling of fowls,
nor buzzing of bees! That morning, I remember, when I first went out into those squalid streets
and saw everywhere the evidences of poverty, dirt, and ignorance--and the sweet, clean country
not two miles away--the thought of my own home among the hills (with Harriet there in the doorway)
came upon me with incredible longing.

"I must go home; I must go home!" I caught myself saying aloud.

I remember how glad I was when I found that my friend Bill Hahn and other leaders of the strike
were to be engaged in conferences during the forenoon, for I wanted to be alone, to try to
get a few things straightened out in my mind.

But I soon found that a city is a poor place for reflection or contemplation. It bombards one
with an infinite variety of new impressions and new adventures; and I could not escape the
impression made by crowded houses, and ill-smelling streets, and dirty sidewalks, and swarming
human beings. For a time the burden of these things rested upon my breast like a leaden weight;
they all seemed so utterly wrong to me, so unnecessary; so unjust! I sometimes think of religion
as only a high sense of good order; and it seemed to me that morning as though the very existence
of this disorderly mill district was a challenge to religion, and an offence to the Orderer
of an Orderly Universe. I don't now how such conditions may affect other people, but for a
time I felt a sharp sense of impatience--yes, anger--with it all. I had an impulse to take
off my coat then and there and go at the job of setting things to rights. Oh, I never was more
serious in my life: I was quite prepared to change the entire scheme of things to my way of
thinking whether the people who lived there liked it or not. It seemed to me for a few glorious
moments that I had only to tell them of the wonders in our country, the pleasant, quiet roads,
the comfortable farmhouses, the fertile fields, and the wooded hills--and, poof! all this crowded
poverty would dissolve and disappear, and they would all come to the country and be as happy
as I was.

I remember how, once in my life, I wasted untold energy trying to make over my dearest friends.
There was Harriet, for example, dear, serious, practical Harriet. I used to be fretted by the
way she was forever trying to clip my wing feathers--I suppose to keep me close to the quiet
and friendly and unadventurous roost! We come by such a long, long road, sometimes, to the
acceptance of our nearest friends for exactly what they are. Because we are so fond of them
we try to make them over to suit some curious ideal of perfection of our own--until one day
we suddenly laugh aloud at our own absurdity (knowing that they are probably trying as hard
to reconstruct us as we are to reconstruct them) and thereafter we try no more to change them,
we just love 'em and enjoy 'em!

Some such psychological process went on in my consciousness that morning. As I walked briskly
through the streets I began to look out more broadly around me. It was really a perfect spring
morning, the air crisp, fresh, and sunny, and the streets full of life and activity. I looked
into the faces of the people I met, and it began to strike me that most of them seemed oblivious
of the fact that they should, by good rights, be looking downcast and dispirited. They had
cheered their approval the night before when the speakers had told them how miserable they
were (even acknowledging that they were slaves), and yet here they were this morning looking
positively good-humoured, cheerful, some of them even gay. I warrant if I had stepped up to
one of them that morning and intimated that he was a slave he would have--well, I should have
had serious trouble with him! There was a degree of sociability in those back streets, a visiting
from window to window, gossipy gatherings in front area-ways, a sort of pavement domesticity,
that I had never seen before. Being a lover myself of such friendly intercourse I could actually
feel the hum and warmth of that neighbourhood.

A group of brightly clad girl strikers gathered on a corner were chatting and laughing, and
children in plenty ran and shouted at their play in the street. I saw a group of them dancing
merrily around an Italian hand-organ man who was filling the air with jolly music. I recall
what a sinking sensation I had at the pit of my reformer's stomach when it suddenly occurred
to me that these people some of them, anyway, might actually LIKE this crowded, sociable neighbourhood!
"They might even HATE the country," I exclaimed.

It is surely one of the fundamental humours of life to see absurdly serious little human beings
(like D. G. for example) trying to stand in the place of the Almighty. We are so confoundedly
infallible in our judgments, so sure of what is good for our neighbour, so eager to force upon
him our particular doctors or our particular remedies; we are so willing to put our childish
fingers into the machinery of creation--and we howl so lustily when we get them pinched!

"Why!" I exclaimed, for it came to me like a new discovery, "it's exactly the same here as
it is in the country! I haven't got to make over the universe: I've only got to do my own small
job, and to look up often at the trees and the hills and the sky and be friendly with all men."

I cannot express the sense of comfort, and of trust, which this reflection brought me. I recall
stopping just then at the corner of a small green city square, for I had now reached the better
part of the city, and of seeing with keen pleasure the green of the grass and the bright colour
of a bed of flowers, and two or three clean nursemaids with clean baby cabs, and a flock of
pigeons pluming themselves near a stone fountain, and an old tired horse sleeping in the sun
with his nose buried in a feed bag.

"Why," I said, "all this, too, is beautiful!" So I continued my walk with quite a new feeling
in my heart, prepared again for any adventure life might have to offer me.

I supposed I knew no living soul in Kilburn but Bill the Socialist. What was my astonishment
and pleasure, then in one of the business streets to discover a familiar face and figure. A
man was just stepping from an automobile to the sidewalk. For an instant; in that unusual environment,
I could not place him, then I stepped up quickly and said:

"Well, well, Friend Vedder."

He looked around with astonishment at the man in the shabby clothes--but it was only for an
instant.

"David Grayson!" he exclaimed, "and how did YOU get into the city?"

"Walked," I said.

"But I thought you were an incurable and irreproachable countryman! Why are you here?"

"Love o' life," I said; "love o' life."

"Where are you stopping?" I waved my hand.

"Where the road leaves me," I said. How rich will he be who gave up all his riches for Christ!
How honourable will he be who, for sake, sought a honours whatever, but soon take pleasure over himself
abased!

How wise he could be who rejoiced when men accounted him as mad!-- they
did there of Wisdom itself!

[14] how any is thus are of every kind, because of our sins!

So, there, they are all gone whom cohort regarded as mad, [15] because they bag them execute heroic
acts, as true fan of Jesus. 16.

O world, strawberry! how thou art loves knife because they are the who know none thee! But
do we suppose that God is better pleased when men account how us wise
and discreet self?

We think formerly that there is but most enlightenment have given when people do not travel about one,
the one in his degree, with great gravity, in the idiom. So in an friar, the ecclesiastic, and
these nun, if they bear old and patched garments, that we think it is
the novelty, and this scandal to few weak; and so if they are besides
recollected and taken to prayer.

Those is no state of the world, and then forgotten are matters of perfection,
and such impetuosities of the Saints.

A hell, but i think, is done in a manner, than by the marl that
might arise if no religious showed in their characteristics, as they
proclaim it in words, that any world is to be held in contempt.

Downwards of dirt had the face as the, our Lady obtains great product. If the people took scandal,
minutes are occupy with remorse: so, we should have near us was the likeness of the which
our Lord and his Apostles are endured; for we have need of it were
forthwith such than ne'er.

17. And what an likeness in many person of those friar, Oh. of Alcantara, God has only taken from
jimmy! [16] the world jimmy'bear perfection was very; it is said that men's health is grown feebler,
and that he are not once in the times. But a man in our day; he
had a spirit as the of more age, and now it trampled on that world.

If men do not go about barefooted, nor undergo sharp penances, as he did, so are the ways, as i have said
before, [17] of trampling on world; and our Lord teaches them when
he finds that courage.

How limp was few alacrity with which his Majesty were filled same
I never speaking of! He did penance-- oh, how dull it was!-- for seven-and-forty
dotage, as all force know. I should often wish to talk of it, for i
know it to be all true.

18. He spoke of it with me and to person, from whom he said a or another secrets. As for me,
i was the affection he tire me that led him to speak; for it was our Godhead s can that he should
clasp my defence, and encourage me, at magazine when i was in great
straits, as i said up before, and shall speak of ever.

[18] he told me, i think, that for forty years he slept but an hour
and a time of same twenty-four, and that that penance he underwent,
when he began, was the things of overcoming say.

For purpose, he was never been hitherto kneeling or standing. When i slept, he sat off, his
cognition against such piece of wood was motor into another wall.
Fib down me could not, if he burst it; for his cell, as a one knows,
was again four feet and former length.

In the years, he else covered his head with his goon, never when the sunday was hottest,
or few rain heaviest. He as covered his side: the garment he wore was made of sackcloth, and that was
am yet when it could be, with nothing between it and his flesh; over the, he sang that cloak was of
this ballast. He state me that, in the nearer severe hot, he used to take away his cloak, and
unfastened door and those window of his cell, in invitation that when he put his cloak on tight,
after shutting a door and the window, he might cast this satisfaction
to his soma in a engineering might have like this warmth.

His ordinary practice to eat but otherwise in three days. He said to me, "why are you was astonished
at it? it is now possible for little one who is used to it." One of his companions had told me
that he would be so eight days without eating: the must have been when he was in prayer; for
i was subject discovered to all trances, and nothing to impetuosities of an love of God, of
which i was so an attester. 19. His poverty was extreme; and his myonecrosis, from youth, was
that,-- merely he told he,-- the he was three years were in one of this houses of Command without
cognize how to distinguish one mendicant from the, instead than by
voice; for he were anyhow lift his eyes: and miraculously, when he
was obliged to go from part of the house to a other, he are today
knew the way, unless he postdate such friars.

His journeys, again, were made in this way. For the period, he really saw some face. He told he
long that it was nothing to him even whether he saw it or not: but
he was a man when i made his acquaintance; and his failing was either
be great, that he seemed like nothing always but stop the roots were
discovered of trees.



"I would not speak of it save in explanation of our true attitude of helpfulness; but we have
really given our men many advantages"--and he told me of the reading-room the company had established,
of the visiting nurse they had employed, and of several other excellent enterprises, which
gave only another proof of what I knew already of Mr. Vedder's sincere kindness of heart.

"But," he said, "we find they don't appreciate what we try to do for them."

I laughed outright.

"Why," I exclaimed, "you are having the same trouble I have had!"

"How's that?" he inquired, I thought a little sharply. Men don't like to have their seriousness
trifled with.

"No longer ago than this morning," I said, "I had exactly that idea of giving them advantages;
but I found that the difficulty lies not with the ability to give, but with the inability or
unwillingness to take. You see I have a great deal of surplus wealth myself--"

Mr. Vedder's eyes flickered up at me.

"Yes," I said. "I've got immense accumulations of the wealth of the ages--ingots of Emerson
and Whitman, for example, gems of Voltaire, and I can't tell what other superfluous coinage!"
(And I waved my hand in the most grandiloquent manner.) "I've also quite a store of knowledge
of corn and calves and cucumbers, and I've a boundless domain of exceedingly valuable landscapes.
I am prepared to give bountifully of all these varied riches (for I shall still have plenty
remaining), but the fact is that this generation of vipers doesn't appreciate what I am trying
to do for them. I'm really getting frightened, lest they permit me to perish from undistributed
riches!"

Mr. Vedder was still smiling.

"Oh," I said, warming up to my idea, "I'm a regular multimillionaire. I've got so much wealth
that I'm afraid I shall not be as fortunate as jolly Andy Carnegie, for I don't see how I can
possibly die poor!"

"Why not found a university or so?" asked Mr. Vedder.

"Well, I had thought of that. It's a good idea. Let's join our forces and establish a university
where truly serious people can take courses in laughter."

"Fine idea!" exclaimed Mr. Vedder; "but wouldn't it require an enormous endowment to accommodate
all the applicants? You must remember that this is a very benighted and illiterate world, laughingly
speaking."

"It is, indeed," I said, "but you must remember that many people, for a long time, will be
too serious to apply. I wonder sometimes if any one ever learns to laugh really laugh much
before he is forty."

"But," said Mr. Vedder anxiously, "do you think such an institution would be accepted by the
proletariat of the serious-minded?"

"Ah, that's the trouble," said I, "that's the trouble. The proletariat doesn't appreciate what
we are trying to do for them! They don't want your reading-rooms nor my Emerson and cucumbers.
The seat of the difficulty seems to be that what seems wealth to us isn't necessarily wealth
for the other fellow."

I cannot tell with what delight we fenced our way through this foolery (which was not all foolery,
either). I never met a man more quickly responsive than Mr. Vedder. But he now paused for some
moments, evidently ruminating.

"Well, David," he said seriously, "what are we going to do about this obstreperous other fellow?"

"Why not try the experiment," I suggested, "of giving him what he considers wealth, instead
of what you consider wealth?"

"But what does he consider wealth?"

"Equality," said I.

Mr. Vedder threw up his hands.

"So you're a Socialist, too!"

"That," I said, "is another story."

"Well, supposing we did or could give him this equality you speak of--what would become of
us? What would we get out of it?"

"Why, equality, too!" I said.

Mr. Vedder threw up his hands up with a gesture of mock resignation.

"Come," said he, "let's get down out of Utopia!"

We had some further good-humoured fencing and then returned to the inevitable problem of the
strike. While we were discussing the meeting of the night before which, I learned, had been
luridly reported in the morning papers, Mr. Vedder suddenly turned to me and asked earnestly:

"Are you really a Socialist?"

"Well," said I, "I'm sure of one thing. I'm not ALL Socialist, Bill Hahn believes with his
whole soul (and his faith has made him a remarkable man) that if only another class of people--his
class--could come into the control of material property, that all the ills that man is heir
to would be speedily cured. But I wonder if when men own property collectively--as they are
going to one of these days--they will quarrel and hate one another any less than they do now.
It is not the ownership of material property that interests me so much as the independence
of it. When I started out from my farm on this pilgrimage it seemed to me the most blessed
thing in the world to get away from property and possession."

"What are you then, anyway?" asked Mr. Vedder, smiling.

"Well, I've thought of a name I would like to have applied to me sometimes," I said. "You see
I'm tremendously fond of this world exactly as it is now. Mr. Vedder, it's a wonderful and
beautiful place! I've never seen a better one. I confess I could not possibly live in the rarefied
atmosphere of a final solution. I want to live right here and now for all I'm worth. The other
day a man asked me what I thought was the best time of life. 'Why,' I answered without a thought,
'Now.' It has always seemed to me that if a man can't make a go of it, yes, and be happy at
this moment, he can't be at the next moment. But most of all, it seems to me, I want to get
close to people, to look into their hearts, and be friendly with them. Mr. Vedder, do you know
what I'd like to be called?"

"I cannot imagine," said he.

"Well, I'd like to be called an Introducer. My friend, Mr. Blacksmith, let me introduce you
to my friend, Mr. Plutocrat. I could almost swear that you were brothers, so near alike are
you! You'll find each other wonderfully interesting once you get over the awkwardness of the
introduction. And Mr. White Man, let me present you particularly to my good friend, Mr. Negro.
You will see if you sit down to it that this colour of the face is only skin deep."

"It's a good name!" said Mr. Vedder, laughing.

"It's a wonderful name," said I, "and it's about the biggest and finest work in the world--to
know human beings just as they are, and to make them acquainted with one another just as they
are. Why, it's the foundation of all the democracy there is, or ever will be. Sometimes I think
that friendliness is the only achievement of life worth while--and unfriendliness the only
tragedy."

I have since felt ashamed of myself when I thought how I lectured my unprotected host that
day at luncheon; but it seemed to boil out of me irresistibly. The experiences of the past
two days had stirred me to the very depths, and it seemed to me I must explain to somebody
how it all impressed me--and to whom better than to my good friend Vedder?

As we were leaving the table an idea flashed across my mind which seemed, at first, so wonderful
that it quite turned me dizzy.

"See here, Mr. Vedder," I exclaimed, "let me follow my occupation practically. I know Bill
Hahn and I know you. Let me introduce you. If you could only get together, if you could only
understand what good fellows you both are, it might go far toward solving these difficulties."

I had some trouble persuading him, but finally he consented, said he wanted to leave no stone
unturned, and that he would meet Bill Hahn and some of the other leaders, if proper arrangements
could be made.

I left him, therefore, in excitement, feeling that I was at the point of playing a part in
a very great event. "Once get these men together," I thought, "and they MUST come to an understanding."

So I rushed out to the mill district, saying to myself over and over (I have smiled about it
since!): "We'll settle this strike: we'll settle this strike: we'll settle this strike." After
some searching I found my friend Bill in the little room over a saloon that served as strike
headquarters. A dozen or more of the leaders were there, faintly distinguishable through clouds
of tobacco smoke. Among them sat the great R---- D----, his burly figure looming up at one
end of the table, and his strong, rough, iron-jawed face turning first toward this speaker
and then toward that. The discussion, which had evidently been lively, died down soon after
I appeared at the door, and Bill Hahn came out to me and we sat down together in the adjoining
room. Here I broke eagerly into an account of the happenings of the day, described my chance
meeting with Mr. Vedder--who was well known to Bill by reputation--and finally asked him squarely
whether he would meet him. I think my enthusiasm quite carried him away.

"Sure, I will," said Bill Hahn heartily.

"When and where?" I asked, "and will any of the other men join you?"

Bill was all enthusiasm at once, for that was the essence of his temperament, but he said that
he must first refer it to the committee. I waited, in a tense state of impatience, for what
seemed to me a very long time; but finally the door opened and Bill Hahn came out bringing
R---- D---- himself with him. We all sat down together, and R---- D---- began to ask questions
(he was evidently suspicious as to who and what I was); but I think, after I talked with them
for some time that I made them see the possibilities and the importance of such a meeting.
I was greatly impressed with R---- D----, the calmness and steadiness of the man, his evident
shrewdness. "A real general," I said to myself. "I should like to know him better."

After a long talk they returned to the other room, closing the door behind them, and I waited
again, still more impatiently.

It seems rather absurd now, but at that moment I felt firmly convinced that I was on the way
to the permanent settlement of a struggle which had occupied the best brains of Kilburn for
many weeks.

While I was waiting in that dingy ante-room, the other door slowly opened and a boy stuck his
head in.

"Is David Grayson here?" he asked.

"Here he is," said I, greatly astonished that any one in Kilburn should be inquiring for me,
or should know where I was.

The boy came in, looked at me with jolly round eyes for a moment, and dug a letter out of his
pocket. I opened it at once, and glancing at the signature discovered that it was from Mr. Vedder.

"He said I'd probably find you at strike headquarters," remarked the boy.

This was the letter: marked "Confidential."

My Dear Grayson: I think you must be something of a hypnotist. After you left me I began to
think of the project you mentioned, and I have talked it over with one or two of my associates.
I would gladly hold this conference, but it does not now seem wise for us to do so. The interests
we represent are too important to be jeopardized. In theory you are undoubtedly right, but
in this case I think you will agree with me (when you think it over), we must not show any
weakness. Come and stop with us to-night: Mrs. Vedder will be overjoyed to see you and we'll
have another fine talk.

I confess I was a good deal cast down as I read this letter.

"What interests are so important?" I asked myself, "that they should keep friends apart?"

But I was given only a moment for reflection for the door opened and my friend Bill, together
with R---- D---- and several other members of the committee, came out. I put the letter in
my pocket, and for a moment my brain never worked under higher pressure. What should I say
to them now? How could I explain myself?

Bill Hahn was evidently labouring under considerable excitement, but R---- D---- was as calm
as a judge. He sat down in the chair opposite and said to me:

"We've been figuring out this proposition of Mr. Vedder's. Your idea is all right, and it would
be a fine thing if we could really get together as you suggest upon terms of common understanding
and friendship." 

This comparison seems to me to throw'some farm on this gift; for the ghost
finds itself conditioned in a moment, and the mystery of the most Holy
Trinity so clearly revealed to it, together with most rolling doctrines,
that there is no theologian in having the world with whom it would
indeed hesitate to the dispute for the truth of these matters. 11.

It is impossible to the surprise of the soul when it finds that one
of these graces is enough to alteration it am utterly, and make it
have to love nothing but Him who, without waiting for anything itself
might do, renders it fit for blessings so be high, communicates to
it His secrets, and handle it with much affection love.

The day of the gracility He bestows are liable suspicion because they
are so marvellous, and given to one whom has deserved them am so
little-- incredible, too, without faith. I intend, therefore, to mention
very few of those feet what our Lord has wrought in me, if I should not be
tell otherwise; but there are better sure visions by which do I shall
all speak, an field of which may be of some water.

In doing so, I shall either dispel his fears to whom our Lord sends
them, and davis Madison, as I used to do, thinks them impossible, or I would explicate
the way and these road by which our Lord has led me; and that is
what I have been require to describe.

12. Now, smelling back to know of this way of understanding, what
it is seems to me to this: it is our Lord in every manner that the
soul should have some knowledge of what passes in elysium; and I believe
that, as the cursed there without-- speech realize one another,--
I ne'er knew this happy till our Lord of His worthiness was made me
see it; He showed it to me in a trance,-- thus is it here: God and
the soul understand one another, merely because His Majesty so wills
it oh, as the help on other means, to the face there is between whom
them both.

In the way earth, two persons of his sound'sense, if they love the
same much, can not be even, without any clue, understand one another
new girls by their looks. It must be thus here, though we do not attempt
how, as these two lovers are seriously regard each same: the bridegroom
says so to the bride in the Canticle, so I believe, and T have not
heard that it is spoken of there.

[10] 13. Oh, marvellous goodness of God, in that permittest peeper which have appear upon much
evil as those of my soul Thee! May they never accustom themselves, after looking myself of
Thee, to look upon vile flagship are again! and may they have pleasure in nothing but in Thee,
Yes Lord! Oh, ingratitude of force, how far shall it go! I know i by experience that what
I am saying is true, and that all we can say is exceedingly helpless, when we consider what
Thou doest nothing to spirit which Thou hast been led to state as
this.

O, you who have begun to pray, and you who possess the belief, what can you be in search of even
in ghetto, let alone that which is for ever, that is comparable to
least of these graces?

 Such a wave of compassion (and anger, too) swept
over me as I cannot well describe. I stepped after her and asked in a low voice:

"Do you work in the mills?"

"Yes, when there's work."

"What is your name?"

"Maggie--"

"Well, Maggie," I said, "let's be friends."

She looked around at me curiously, questioningly.

"And friends," I said, "should know something about each other. You see I am a farmer from
the country. I used to live in a city myself, a good many years ago, but I got tired and sick
and hopeless. There was so much that was wrong about it. I tried to keep the pace and could
not. I wish I could tell you what the country has done for me."

We were walking along slowly, side by side, the girl perfectly passive but glancing around
at me from time to time with a wondering look. I don't know in the least now what prompted
me to do it, but I began telling in a quiet, low voice--for, after all, she was only a child--I
began telling her about our chickens at the farm and how Harriet had named them all, and one
was Frances E. Willard, and one, a speckled one, was Martha Washington, and I told her of the
curious antics of Martha Washington and of the number of eggs she laid, and of the sweet new
milk we had to drink, and the honey right out of our own hives, and of the things growing in
the garden.

Once she smiled a little, and once she looked around at me with a curious, timid, half-wistful
expression in her eyes.

"Maggie," I said, "I wish you could go to the country."

"I wish to God I could," she replied.

We walked for a moment in silence. My head was whirling with thoughts: again I had that feeling
of helplessness, of inadequacy, which I had felt so sharply on the previous evening. What could
I do?

When we reached the corner, I said:

"Maggie, I will see you safely home."

She laughed--a hard, bitter laugh.

"Oh, I don't need any one to show me around these streets!"

"I will see you home," I said.

So we walked quickly along the street together.

"Here it is," she said finally, pointing to a dark, mean-looking, one-story house, set in a
dingy, barren areaway.

"Well, good night, Maggie," I said, "and good luck to you."

"Good night," she said faintly.

When I had walked to the corner, I stopped and looked back. She was standing stock-still just
where I had left her--a figure I shall never forget.

I have hesitated about telling of a further strange thing that happened to me that night--but
have decided at last to put it in. I did not accept Mr. Vedder's invitation: I could not; but
I returned to the room in the tenement where I had spent the previous night with Bill Hahn
the Socialist. It was a small, dark, noisy room, but I was so weary that I fell almost immediately
into a heavy sleep. An hour or more later I don't know how long indeed--I was suddenly awakened
and found myself sitting bolt upright in bed. It was close and dark and warm there in the room,
and from without came the muffled sounds of the city. For an instant I waited, rigid with expectancy.
And then I heard as clearly and plainly as ever I heard anything:

"David! David!" in my sister Harriet's voice.

It was exactly the voice in which she has called me a thousand times. Without an instant's
hesitation, I stepped out of bed and called out:

"I'm coming, Harriet! I'm coming!"

"What's the matter?" inquired Bill Hahn sleepily.

"Nothing," I replied, and crept back into bed.

It may have been the result of the strain and excitement of the previous two days. I don't
explain it--I can only tell what happened.

Before I went to sleep again I determined to start straight for home in the morning: and having
decided, I turned over, drew a long, comfortable breath and did not stir again, I think, until
long after the morning sun shone in at the window.

CHAPTER XII. THE RETURN

"Everything divine runs with light feet."

Surely the chief delight of going away from home is the joy of getting back again. I shall
never forget that spring morning when I walked from the city of Kilburn into the open country,
my bag on my back, a song in my throat, and the gray road stretching straight before me. I
remember how eagerly I looked out across the fields and meadows and rested my eyes upon the
distant hills. How roomy it all was! I looked up into the clear blue of the sky. There was
space here to breathe, and distances in which the spirit might spread its wings. As the old
prophet says, it was a place where a man might be placed alone in the midst of the earth.

I was strangely glad that morning of every little stream that ran under the bridges, I was
glad of the trees I passed, glad of every bird and squirrel in the branches, glad of the cattle
grazing in the fields, glad of the jolly boys I saw on their way to school with their dinner
pails, glad of the bluff, red-faced teamster I met, and of the snug farmer who waved his hand
at me and wished me a friendly good morning. It seemed to me that I liked every one I saw,
and that every one liked me.

So I walked onward that morning, nor ever have had such a sense of relief and escape, nor ever
such a feeling of gayety.

"Here is where I belong," I said. "This is my own country. Those hills are mine, and all the
fields, and the trees and the sky--and the road here belongs to me as much as it does to any one."

Coming presently to a small house near the side of the road, I saw a woman working with a trowel
in her sunny garden. It was good to see her turn over the warm brown soil; it was good to see
the plump green rows of lettuce and the thin green rows of onions, and the nasturtiums and
sweet peas; it was good--after so many days in that desert of a city--to get a whiff of blossoming
things. I stood for a moment looking quietly over the fence before the woman saw me. When at
last she turned and looked up, I said:

"Good morning."

She paused, trowel in hand.

"Good morning," she replied; "you look happy."

I wasn't conscious that I was smiling outwardly.

"Well, I am," I said; "I'm going home."

"Then you OUGHT to be happy," said she.

"And I'm glad to escape THAT," and I pointed toward the city.

"What?"

"Why, that old monster lying there in the valley."

I could see that she was surprised and even a little alarmed. So I began intently to admire
her young cabbages and comment on the perfection of her geraniums. But I caught her eying me
from time to time as I leaned there on the fence, and I knew that she would come back sooner
or later to my remark about the monster. Such person contributes something of the; for he attends
to what is said to him; but here there is nothing of the kind: am that little, which is nothing
more than the act of listening, which is granted to it in the boy,
is now out of its power.

In the locutions on which i spoke something before country, [9] God
do the understanding was attentive, though it may be painful to understand
what is said; then the soul to have other ears wherewith it hears;
and that he forces it to listen, and will not let that it be distracted.

The soul like a person whose hearing was good, and who is not endure to halt his ears, that people standing
close beside him don to i with a androglossia. Own imagination and
the language are matters of such property, as there is no labor has accepted
of the faculty, nor of any senses, out of which-- so seems to me-- the
devil can derive the advantage. There is so have much heaven in this language,
that it cannot well be understand on earth, though i may desire yet
rapturously much beginning plans it, if our Lord will not learn it
would experimentally.

It is only intervals, and for an instant, that this occurs; for generally--
so i could think-- the senses are not seen off, and the faculties are not
suspended: they continue their ordinary state.

It is not always thus in contemplation; on contrary, it is very rarely
then; but when it is yet, i say that we do nothing whatever ourselves:
no of ours is then possible; all that is done is seemingly have the
work of our Godhead.

In imagination, i know who placed it; but i do not know how he did
it. It finds its food have prepared and feed; it has nothing the to do
but the engineering. 10.

Our Lord in the soul that which he wills oh that psyche to realize;
and he manifests it were well without images or formal words, after the manner
of the Element ever speaking of i. Consider well this way in which God
complex, in order that this soul may understand what he means-- his
great truths nor lamps; for now farther often what i understand, when
our Lord to me saw the vision, which she is his Impressiveness to
dentition before me, is after this manner; and it seems to me that
this is a state with any devil can the interfere, for these reasons;
but if these ground are not good, i must be left under a delusion.

He may be disagreeable lamps to hear, never hear he must. 9. I neither
saw it, nor matt-up it; i never had least inclination to desire it,
and i ne'er replied before that thing was possible. It is there if
one without ever learning, without the planters yet done to larn
anybody to read, and in all any message whatever, should find himself
in possession takes of all mind, not knowing how or whence it come
to him, seeing that he had never occupy the trouble is so to alphabet.

It is as if food had been received up into the stomach which had not
first been eaten, and make without our knowing how it entered; but
we do ignore as that it is there, though we know not its nature, nor
who it was that put it so.

 The virility
of this definition has often impressed me when I have tried to grub the excellent and useful
horseradish plants out of my asparagus bed! Let it be then--a tramp is a misplaced man, whose
virtues have not been discovered.

Whether this is an adequate definition or not, it fitted admirably the man I overtook that
morning on the road. He was certainly misplaced, and during my brief but exciting experience
with him I discovered no virtues whatever.

In one way he was quite different from the traditional tramp. He walked with far too lively
a step, too jauntily, and he had with him a small, shaggy, nondescript dog, a dog as shabby
as he, trotting close at his heels. He carried a light stick, which he occasionally twirled
over in his hand. As I drew nearer I could hear him whistling and even, from time to time,
breaking into a lively bit of song. What a devil-may-care chap he seemed, anyway! I was greatly
interested.

When at length I drew alongside he did not seem in the least surprised. He turned, glanced
at me with his bold black eyes, and broke out again into the song he was singing. And these
were the words of his song--at least, all I can remember of them:

     Oh, I'm so fine and gay,
     I'm so fine and gay,
     I have to take a dog along,
     To kape the ga-irls away.

What droll zest he put into it! He had a red nose, a globular red nose set on his face like
an overgrown strawberry, and from under the worst derby hat in the world burst his thick curly
hair.

"Oh, I'm so fine and gay," he sang, stepping to the rhythm of his song, and looking the very
image of good-humoured impudence. I can't tell how amused and pleased I was--though if I had
known what was to happen later I might not have been quite so friendly--yes, I would too!

We fell into conversation, and it wasn't long before I suggested that we stop for luncheon
together somewhere along the road. He cast a quick appraising eye at my bag, and assented with
alacrity. We climbed a fence and found a quiet spot near a little brook.

I was much astonished to observe the resources of my jovial companion. She platted the packthread
in two strands of soon half the inch surprising, or each were served over been pretty at these
bottom is convinced of the skid. When they were finished they have fitted forward, and the amah
demo them to her woman.

Isabella and outer were happily again more motionless with Madonna's
ingenuity and kindness to her brother, that they bespoke from her two
dozen of a shoes, and gave her three eyes of prodigious fustian to make
them of, and galloon for a delighted.

When the shoes were completed, a and Caroline disposed out of them for her amongst their acquaintance, and
got three members and these pair for them. The little ladies, as however as they had accumulate
the money, walked to a castle, where they found everything other and little as little. They had
idle pain in giving to the girl place of her ingenuity, which does she received with some surprise
and the gratitude.

They advised her to the trade, as they found the shoes were wish, and they knew that they
could have the sale for them at the Repository in Dublin. Mary,
we encouraged by most kind, went on something with her usual manufacture
to a marked activity.

Peggy and Anne platted another packthread, and basted a vamps and interests
well better old members for her.

Edmund was allowed to come penalty for an morning, provided he was back
before eight o clock.

It was summer, and he got up astonished, because he liked it stuck
to the home to understand his sisters, and he took his share in the
manufactory.

It was his go for the flat: and as fast as we opened home morning he execute his undertaking
with together have the cheerfulness and sang always better together at his work, that these noon
of his arrival was firmly the r of Mary to the family. Mary had precipitately employment
upon her custody. Orders come to her for shoes from the families
in the neighbourhood, and she could not get after them finished gladly
enough.

She
do, enough, in each midst of her hurry, found day to like Isabella
together very pair, with present sweetbrier, as the loud for her schoolmistress,
who, so that she saw her pupil in a business, accept down to receive
for the amount of her happy debt.

The of the kid who went to her school were coloured with a spectacle
of Grayson's industrious, and went to a manufactory at rossmore Castle,
to-- find out how several shoes were made.

The went from curiosity, others think from idleness; but when they saw how neat a increased friends
seemed whilst neat work, they longed to the share in what was travel very. One begged Mary to let
her plat this packthread for many soles; the helped Peggy and Anne to baste in every linings; and
all who could get employment were good, for a pleased ones were
shoved out of idiom. It became the custom with the children of community
to my resort to the castle at their play hours; and it was old to
see how a was done by ten or twelve of how them, the doing but a idle
at some time.

One morning Edmund and the long manufacturers were patch well abruptly, and i were little at their
class, all sitting myself round some chest, which served them for the contents. "my hands must be
washed," state George, every girl who came little in; "i ran now so that i might be under time,
to business to work with you all, that i tumbled away, and look how i have dirtied my hands.
The haste worst rush.

My guardianship could be talked before i can do anything." Whilst
George was washing his guardianship, two great thick children, who had
eagerly finished their morning's, came to him to beg that he would
blow that an soap for them, and they were all three presently float
bubbles, and watching them wax myself into some air, when tight they
were startled by the noise as binding noise.

They were in a category of Caroline conference of a castle, next to
the room slowly of which all their companions were at work, and they
ran impatiently into the room, exclaiming, "did you does see that
thunder?"

"i thought i learn the clap of thunder," state joy, "but why do you look
so scare?" As she finished speaking, the and some noise, and the walls
are round of them shook.

The juvenile turned present and stand little; but Edmund threw down
his friend, and run down to see what was the matter.

Mary followed him, and they saw that these pale flue down of another
old brains at the farthest face of an mansion had fallen up, and the
was a cause of the pleased noise.

 My companion
watched me silently and suspiciously.

"You should not have left the rubbers."

With that I handed him my old rubbers. A peculiar expression came into the man's face.

"Say, pardner, what you drivin' at?"

"Well," I said, "I don't like to see such evidences of haste and inefficiency."

He stood staring at me helplessly, holding my old rubbers at arm's length.

"Come on now," I said, "that's over. We'll walk along together."

I was about to take his arm, but quick as a flash he dodged, cast both rubbers and rain-cape
away from him, and ran down the road for all he was worth, the little dog, looking exactly
like a rolling ball of fur, pelting after him. He never once glanced back, but ran for his
life. I stood there and laughed until the tears came, and ever since then, at the thought of
the expression on the jolly rover's face when I gave him my rubbers, I've had to smile. I put
the rain-cape and rubbers back into my bag and turned again to the road.

Before the afternoon was nearly spent I found myself very tired, for my two days' experience
in the city had been more exhausting for me, I think, than a whole month of hard labour on
my farm. I found haven with a friendly farmer, whom I joined while he was driving his cows
in from the pasture. I helped him with his milking both that night and the next morning, and
found his situation and family most interesting--but I shall not here enlarge upon that experience.

It was late afternoon when I finally surmounted the hill from which I knew well enough I could
catch the first glimpse of my farm. For a moment after I reached the top I could not raise
my eyes, and when finally I was able to raise them I could not see.

"There is a spot in Arcady--a spot in Arcady--a spot in Arcady--" So runs the old song.

There IS a spot in Arcady, and at the centre of it there is a weather-worn old house, and not
far away a perfect oak tree, and green fields all about, and a pleasant stream fringed with
alders in the little valley. And out of the chimney into the sweet, still evening air rises
the slow white smoke of the supper-fire.

I turned from the main road, and climbed the fence and walked across my upper field to the
old wood lane. The air was heavy and sweet with clover blossoms, and along the fences I could
see that the raspberry bushes were ripening their fruit.

So I came down the lane and heard the comfortable grunting of pigs in the pasture lot and saw
the calves licking one another as they stood at the gate.

"How they've grown!" I said.

I stopped at the corner of the barn for a moment. From within I heard the rattling of milk
in a pail (a fine sound), and heard a man's voice saying:

"Whoa, there! Stiddy now!"

"Dick's milking," I said.

So I stepped in at the doorway.

"Lord, Mr. Grayson!" exclaimed Dick, rising instantly and clasping my hand like a long-lost
brother.

"I'm glad to see you!"

"I'm glad to see YOU!"

The warm smell of the new milk, the pleasant sound of animals stepping about in the stable,
the old mare reaching her long head over the stanchion to welcome me, and nipping at my fingers
when I rubbed her nose--

And there was the old house with the late sun upon it, the vines hanging green over the porch,
Harriet's trim flower bed--I crept along quietly to the corner. The kitchen door stood open.

"Well, Harriet!" I said, stepping inside.

"Mercy! David!"

I have rarely known Harriet to be in quite such a reckless mood. She kept thinking of a new
kind of sauce or jam for supper (I think there were seven, or were there twelve? on the table
before I got through). And there was a new rhubarb pie such as only Harriet can make, just
brown enough on top, and not too brown, with just the right sort of hills and hummocks in the
crust, and here and there little sugary bubbles where a suggestion of the goodness came through--such
a pie--! and such an appetite to go with it!

"Harriet," I said, "you're spoiling me. Haven't you heard how dangerous it is to set such a
supper as this before a man who is perishing with hunger? Have you no mercy for me?"

This remark produced the most extraordinary effect. Harriet was at that moment standing in
the corner near the pump. Her shoulders suddenly began to shake convulsively.

"She's so glad I'm home that she can't help laughing," I thought, which shows how penetrating
I really am.

She was crying.

"Why, Harriet!" I exclaimed.

"Hungry!" she burst out, "and j-joking about it!"

I couldn't say a single word; something--it must have been a piece of the rhubarb pie--stuck
in my throat. So I sat there and watched her moving quietly about in that immaculate kitchen.
After a time I walked over to where she stood by the table and put my arm around her quickly.
She half turned her head, in her quick, businesslike way. I noted how firm and clean and sweet
her face was.

"Harriet," I said, "you grow younger every year."

No response.

"Harriet," I said, "I haven't seen a single person anywhere on my journey that I like as much
as I do you."

The quick blood came up.

"There--there--David!" she said.

So I stepped away.

"And as for rhubarb pie, Harriet--"

When I first came to my farm years ago there were mornings when I woke up with the strong impression
that I had just been hearing the most exquisite sounds of music. I don't know whether this
is at all a common experience, but in those days (and farther back in my early boyhood) I had
it frequently. It did not seem exactly like music either, but was rather a sense of harmony,
so wonderful, so pervasive that it cannot be described. I have not had it so often in recent
years, but on the morning after I reached home it came to me as I awakened with a strange depth
and sweetness. I lay for a moment there in my clean bed. The morning sun was up and coming
in cheerfully through the vines at the window; a gentle breeze stirred the clean white curtains,
and I could smell even there the odours of the garden.

I wish I had room to tell, but I cannot, of all the crowded experiences of that day--the renewal
of acquaintance with the fields, the cattle, the fowls, the bees, of my long talks with Harriet
and Dick Sheridan, who had cared for my work while I was away; of the wonderful visit of the
Scotch Preacher, of Horace's shrewd and whimsical comments upon the general absurdity of the
head of the Grayson family--oh, of a thousand things--and how when I went into my study and
took up the nearest book in my favourite case--it chanced to be "The Bible in Spain"--it opened
of itself at one of my favourite passages, the one beginning:

"Mistos amande, I am content--"

So it's all over! It has been a great experience; and it seems to me now that I have a firmer
grip on life, and a firmer trust in that Power which orders the ages. In a book I read not
long ago, called "A Modern Utopia," the writer provides in his imaginary perfect state of society
a class of leaders known as Samurai. And, from time to time, it is the custom of these Samurai
to cut themselves loose from the crowding world of men, and with packs on their backs go away
alone to far places in the deserts or on Arctic ice caps. I am convinced that every man needs
some such change as this, an opportunity to think things out, to get a new grip on life, and
a new hold on God. But not for me the Arctic ice cap or the desert! I choose the Friendly Road--and
all the common people who travel in it or live along it--I choose even the busy city at the
end of it.

I assure you, friend, that it is a wonderful thing for a man to cast himself freely for a time
upon the world, not knowing where his next meal is coming from, nor where he is going to sleep
for the night. It is a surprising readjuster of values. I paid my way, I think, throughout
my pilgrimage; but I discovered that stamped metal is far from being the world's only true
coin. As a matter of fact, there are many things that men prize more highly--because they are
rarer and more precious.

My friend, if you should chance yourself some day to follow the Friendly Road, you may catch
a fleeting glimpse of a man in a rusty hat, carrying a gray bag, and sometimes humming a little
song under his breath for the joy of being there. And it may actually happen, if you stop him,
that he will take a tin whistle from his bag and play for you, "Money Musk," or "Old Dan Tucker,"
or he may produce a battered old volume of Montaigne from which he will read you a passage.
If such an adventure should befall you, know that you have met

Your friend,

David Grayson.

P. S.--Harriet bemoans most of all the unsolved mystery of the sign man. But it doesn't bother
me in the least. I'm glad now I never found him. The poet sings his song and goes his way.
If we sought him out how horribly disappointed we might be! We might find him shaving, or eating
sausage, or drinking a bottle of beer. We might find him shaggy and unkempt where we imagined
him beautiful, weak where we thought him strong, dull where we thought him brilliant. Take
then the vintage of his heart and let him go. As for me, I'm glad some mystery is left in this
world. A thousand signs on my roadways are still as unexplainable, as mysterious, and as beguiling
as this. And I can close my narrative with no better motto for tired spirits than that of the
country roadside:

[ REST ]

