Her love of her clan, an attachment which was almost hereditary in her bosom, was, like her
loyalty, a more pure passion than that of her brother. He was too thorough a politician, regarded
his patriarchal influence too much as the means of accomplishing his own aggrandisement, that
we should term him the model of a Highland Chieftain. Flora felt the same anxiety for cherishing
and extending their patriarchal sway, but it was with the generous desire of vindicating from
poverty, or at least from want and foreign oppression, those whom her brother was by birth,
according to the notions of the time and country, entitled to govern. The savings of her income,
for she had a small pension from the Princess Sobieski, were dedicated, not to add to the comforts
of the peasantry, for that was a word which they neither knew nor apparently wished to know,
but to relieve their absolute necessities when in sickness or extreme old age. At every other
period they rather toiled to procure something which they might share with the Chief, as a
proof of their attachment, than expected other assistance from him save what was afforded by
the rude hospitality of his castle, and the general division and subdivision of his estate
among them. Flora was so much beloved by them that, when Mac-Murrough composed a song in which
he enumerated all the principal beauties of the district, and intimated her superiority by
concluding, that 'the fairest apple hung on the highest bough,' he received, in donatives from
the individuals of the clan, more seed-barley than would have sowed his Highland Parnassus,
the bard's croft, as it was called, ten times over.

From situation as well as choice, Miss Mac-Ivor's society was extremely limited. Her most intimate
friend had been Rose Bradwardine, to whom she was much attached; and when seen together, they
would have afforded an artist two admirable subjects for the gay and the melancholy muse. Indeed
Rose was so tenderly watched by her father, and her circle of wishes was so limited, that none
arose but what he was willing to gratify, and scarce any which did not come within the compass
of his power. With Flora it was otherwise. While almost a girl she had undergone the most complete
change of scene, from gaiety and splendour to absolute solitude and comparative poverty; and
the ideas and wishes which she chiefly fostered respected great national events, and changes
not to be brought round without both hazard and bloodshed, and therefore not to be thought
of with levity. Thither is much marking of typical pathological falsification into, on the manus, the
truly insane character, and, on the same manus, into the prevarication which is to be explicate
by rather normal idea or where the baron to veracity is only partly
evolve.

It was generally believed, though no one durst have hinted it to the Baron of Bradwardine,
that Flora's entreaties had no small share in allaying the wrath of Fergus upon occasion of
their quarrel. She took her brother on the assailable side, by dwelling first upon the Baron's
age, and then representing the injury which the cause might sustain, and the damage which must
arise to his own character in point of prudence--so necessary to a political agent, if he persisted
in carrying it to extremity. Otherwise it is probable it would have terminated in a duel, both
because the Baron had, on a former occasion, shed blood of the clan, though the matter had
been timely accommodated, and on account of his high reputation for address at his weapon,
which Fergus almost condescended to envy. For the same reason she had urged their reconciliation,
which the Chieftain the more readily agreed to as it favoured some ulterior projects of his own.

To this young lady, now presiding at the female empire of the tea- table, Fergus introduced
Captain Waverley, whom she received with the usual forms of politeness.

CHAPTER XXII

HIGHLAND MINSTRELSY

When the first salutations had passed, Fergus said to his sister, 'My dear Flora, before I
return to the barbarous ritual of our forefathers, I must tell you that Captain Waverley is
a worshipper of the Celtic muse, not the less so perhaps that he does not understand a word
of her language. I have told him you are eminent as a translator of Highland poetry, and that
Mac-Murrough admires your version of his songs upon the same principle that Captain Waverley
admires the original,--because he does not comprehend them. Will you have the goodness to read
or recite to our guest in English the extraordinary string of names which Mac-Murrough has
tacked together in Gaelic? My life to a moor-fowl's feather, you are provided with a version;
for I know you are in all the bard's councils, and acquainted with his songs long before he
rehearses them in the hall.'

'How can you say so, Fergus? You know how little these verses can possibly interest an English
stranger, even if I could translate them as you pretend.'

'Not less than they interest me, lady fair. To-day your joint composition, for I insist you
had a share in it, has cost me the last silver cup in the castle, and I suppose will cost me
something else next time I hold cour pleniere, if the muse descends on Mac-Murrough; for you
know our proverb,--"When the hand of the chief ceases to bestow, the breath of the bard is
frozen in the utterance."--Well, I would it were even so: there are three things that are useless
to a modern Highlander,--a sword which he must not draw, a bard to sing of deeds which he dare
not imitate, and a large goat-skin purse without a louis-d'or to put into it.'

'Well, brother, since you betray my secrets, you cannot expect me to keep yours. I assure you,
Captain Waverley, that Fergus is too proud to exchange his broardsword for a marechal's baton,
that he esteems Mac-Murrough a far greater poet than Homer, and would not give up his goat-skin
purse for all the louis-d'or which it could contain.'

'Well pronounced, Flora; blow for blow, as Conan [Footnote: See Note 23.] said to the devil.
Now do you two talk of bards and poetry, if not of purses and claymores, while I return to
do the final honours to the senators of the tribe of Ivor.' So saying, he left the room.

The conversation continued between Flora and Waverley; for two well-dressed young women, whose
character seemed to hover between that of companions and dependants, took no share in it. They
were both pretty girls, but served only as foils to the grace and beauty of their patroness.
The discourse followed the turn which the Chieftain had given it, and Waverley was equally
amused and surprised with the account which the lady gave him of Celtic poetry.

'The recitation,' she said, 'of poems recording the feats of heroes, the complaints of lovers,
and the wars of contending tribes, forms the chief amusement of a winter fire-side in the Highlands.
Some of these are said to be very ancient, and if they are ever translated into any of the
languages of civilised Europe, cannot fail to produce a deep and general sensation. Others
are more modern, the composition of those family bards whom the chieftains of more distinguished
name and power retain as the poets and historians of their tribes. These, of course, possess
various degrees of merit; but much of it must evaporate in translation, or be lost on those
who do not sympathise with the feelings of the poet.'

'And your bard, whose effusions seemed to produce such effect upon the company to-day, is he
reckoned among the favourite poets of the mountains?'

