THE RANGERS

OR

THE TORY'S DAUGHTER

A TALE

ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE

REVOLUTIONARY HISTORY OF VERMONT

AND THE

NORTHERN CAMPAIGN OF 1777

BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE GREEN MOUNTAIN BOYS"

TWO VOLUMES IN ONE

TENTH EDITION

VOLUME I.

On commencing his former work, illustrative of the revolutionary history of Vermont,--THE GREEN
MOUNTAIN BOYS,--it was the design of the author to have embraced the battle of Bennington,
and other events of historic interest which occurred in the older and more southerly parts
of the state; but finding, as he proceeded, that the unity and interest of his effort would
be endangered by embracing so much ground, a part of the original design was relinquished,
or rather its execution was deferred for a new and separate work, wherein better justice could
be done to the rich and unappropriated materials of which his researches had put him in possession.
That work, after an interval of ten years, and the writing and publishing of several intermediate
ones, is now presented to the public, and with the single remark, that if it is made to possess
less interest, as a mere tale, than its predecessor, the excuse must be found in the author's
greater anxiety to give a true historic version of the interesting and important events he
has undertaken to illustrate.

THE RANGERS;

OR,

THE TORY'S DAUGHTER

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I.

  "Sing on! sing on! my mountain home,
   The paths where erst I used to roam,
   The thundering torrent lost in foam.
   The snow-hill side all bathed in light,--
   All, all are bursting on my sight!"

Towards night, on the twelfth of March, 1775, a richly-equipped double sleigh, filled with
a goodly company of well-dressed persons of the different sexes, was seen descending from the
eastern side of the Green Mountains, along what may now be considered the principal thoroughfare
leading from the upper navigable portions of the Hudson to those of the Connecticut River.
The progress of the travellers was not only slow, but extremely toilsome, as was plainly evinced
by the appearance of the reeking and jaded horses, as they labored and floundered along the
sloppy and slumping snow paths of the winter road, which was obviously now fast resolving itself
into the element of which it was composed. Up to the previous evening, the dreary reign of
winter had continued wholly uninterrupted by the advent of his more gentle successor in the
changing rounds of the seasons; and the snowy waste which enveloped the earth would, that morning,
have apparently withstood the rains and suns of months before yielding entirely to their influences.
But during the night there had occurred one of those great and sudden transitions from cold
to heat, which can only be experienced in northern climes, and which can be accounted for only
on the supposition, that the earth, at stated intervals, rapidly gives out large quantities
of its internal heats, or that the air becomes suddenly rarefied by some essential change or
modification in the state of the electric fluid. The morning had been cloudless; and the rising
sun, with rays no longer dimly struggling through the dense, obstructing medium of the dark
months gone by, but, with the restored beams of his natural brightness, fell upon the smoking
earth with the genial warmth of summer. A new atmosphere, indeed, seemed to have been suddenly
created, so warm and bland was the whole air; while, occasionally, a breeze came over the face
of the traveller, which seemed like the breath of a heated oven. As the day advanced, the sky
gradually became overcast--a strong south wind sprung up, before whose warm puffs the drifted
snow-banks seemed literally to be cut down, like grass before the scythe of the mower; and,
at length, from the thickening mass of cloud above, the rain began to descend in torrents to
the mutely recipient earth. All this, for a while, however, produced no very visible effects
on the general face of nature; for the melting snow was many hours in becoming saturated with
its own and water from above. Nor had our travellers, for the greater part of the day, been
much incommoded by the rain, or the thaw, that was in silent, but rapid progress around and
beneath them; as their vehicle was a covered one, and as the hard-trodden paths of the road
were the last to be affected. But, during the last hour, a great change in the face of the
landscape had become apparent; and the evidence of what had been going on unseen, through the
day, was now growing every moment more and more palpable. The snow along the bottom of every
valley was marked by a long, dark streak, indicating the presence of the fast-collecting waters
beneath. The stifled sounds of rushing streams were heard issuing from the hidden beds of every
natural rill; while the larger brooks were beginning to burst through their wintry coverings,
and throw up and push on before them the rending ice and snow that obstructed their courses
to the rivers below, to which they were hurrying with increasing speed, and with seemingly
growing impatience at every obstacle they met in their way. The road had also become so soft,
that the horses sunk nearly to the flank at almost every step, and the plunging sleigh drove
heavily along the plashy path. The whole mass of the now saturated and dissolving snow, indeed,
though lying, that morning, more than three feet deep on a level, seemed to quiver and move,
as if on the point of flowing away in a body to the nearest channels.

The company we have introduced consisted of four gentlemen and two ladies, all belonging, very
evidently, to the most wealthy, and, up to that time, the most honored and influential class
of society. But though all seemed to be of the same caste, yet their natural characters, as
any physiognomist, at a glance, would have discovered, were, for so small a party, unusually
diversified. Of the two men occupying the front seat, both under the age of thirty, the one
sitting on the right and acting as driver was tall, showily dressed, and of a haughty, aristocratic
air; while his sharp features, which set out in the shape of a half-moon, the convex outline
being preserved by a retreating forehead, an aquiline nose, and a chin sloping inward, combined
to give him a cold, repulsive countenance, fraught with expressions denoting selfishness and
insincerity. The other occupant of the same seat was, on the contrary, a young man of an unassuming
demeanor, shapely features, and a mild, pleasing countenance. The remaining two gentlemen of
the party were much older, but scarcely less dissimilar in their appearance than the two just
described. One of them was a gaunt, harsh-featured man, of the middle ago, with an air of corresponding
arrogance and assumption. The other, who was still more elderly, was a thick-set and rather
portly personage, of that quiet, reserved, and somewhat haughty demeanor, which usually belongs
to men of much self-esteem, and of an unyielding, opinionated disposition. The ladies were
both young, and in the full bloom of maidenly beauty. But their native characters, like those
of their male companions, seemed to be very strongly contrasted. The one seated on the left
was fair, extremely fair, indeed; and her golden locks, clustering in rich profusion around
her snowy neck and temples, gave peculiar effect to the picture-like beauty of her face. But
her beauty consisted of pretty features, and her countenance spoke rather of the affections
than of the mind, being of that tender, pleading cast, which is better calculated to call forth
sympathy than command respect, and which, showed her to be one of those confiding, dependent
persons, whose destinies are in me hands of those whom they consider their friends, rather
than in their own keeping. The other maiden, with an equally fine form and no less beautiful
features, was still of an entirely different appearance. She, indeed, was, to the one first
described what the rose, with its hardy stem, is to the lily leaning on the surrounding herbage
for its support; and though less delicately fair in mere complexion, she was yet more commandingly
beautiful; for there was an expression in the bright, discriminating glances of her deep hazel
eyes, and in the commingling smile that played over the whole of her serene and benignant countenance,
that told of intellects that could act independently, as well as of a heart that glowed with
the kindly affections.

"Father," said the last described female, addressing the eldest gentleman, for the purpose,
apparently, of giving a new turn to the conversation, which had now, for some time, been lagging,--"father,
I think you promised us, on starting from Bennington this morning, not only a fair day, but
a safe arrival at Westminster Court-House, by sunset, did you not?"

"Why, yes, perhaps I did," replied the person addressed; "for I know I calculated that we should
get through by daylight."

"Well, my weatherwise father, to say nothing about this storm, instead of the promised sunshine,
does the progress, made and now making, augur very brightly for the other part of the result?"

"I fear me not, Sabrey," answered the old gentleman, "though, with the road as good as when
we started, we should have easily accomplished it. But who would have dreamed of a thaw so
sudden and powerful as this? Why, the very road before us looks like a running river! Indeed,
I think we shall do well to reach Westminster at all to-night. What say you, Mr. Peters,--will
the horses hold out to do it?" he added, addressing the young man of the repulsive look, who
had charge of the team, us before mentioned.

"They must do it, at all events, Squire Haviland," replied Peters. "Sheriff Patterson, here,"
he continued, glancing at the hard-featured man before described, "has particular reasons for
being on the ground to-night. I must also be there, and likewise friend Jones, if we can persuade
him to forego his intended stop at Brattleborough; for, being of a military turn, we will give
him the command of the forces, if he will go on immediately with us."

"Thank you, Mr. Peters," replied Jones, smiling. "I do not covet the honor of a command, though
I should be ready to go on and assist, if I really believed that military forces would be needed."

"Military forces needed for what?" asked Haviland, in some surprise.

"Why, have you not heard, Squire Haviland," said the sheriff, "that threats have been thrown
out, that our coming court would not be suffered to sit?"

"Yes, something of the kind, perhaps," replied Haviland, contemptuously; "but I looked upon
them only as the silly vaporings of a few disaffected creatures, who, having heard of the rebellious
movements in the Bay State, have thrown out these idle threats with the hope of intimidating
our authorities, and so prevent the holding of a court, which they fear might bring too many
of them to justice."

"So I viewed the case for a while," rejoined Patterson; "but a few days ago, I received secret
information, on which I could rely, that these disorganizing rascals were actually combining,
in considerable numbers, with the intention of attempting to drive us from the Court-House."

"Impossible! impossible! Patterson," said the squire; "they will never be so audacious as to
attempt to assail the king's court."

"They are making a movement for that purpose, nevertheless," returned the former; "for, in
addition to the information I have named, I received a letter from Judge Chandler, just as
I was leaving my house in Brattleborough, yesterday morning, in which the judge stated, that
about forty men, from Rockingham, came to him in a body, at his house in Chester, and warned
him against holding the court; and had the boldness to tell him, that blood would be shed,
if it was attempted, especially if the sheriff appeared with an armed posse."

"Indeed! why, I am astonished at their insolence!" exclaimed the squire. "But what did the
judge tell them?"

"Why the judge, you know, has an oily way of getting along with ugly customers," replied the
sheriff, with a significant wink; "so he thanked them all kindly for calling on him, and gravely
told them he agreed with them, that no court should be holden at this time. But, as there was
one case of murder to be tried, he supposed the court must come together to dispose of that;
after which they would immediately adjourn. And promising them that he would give the sheriff
directions not to appear with any armed assistants, he dismissed them, and sat down and wrote
me an account of the affair, winding off with giving me the directions he had promised, but
adding in a postscript, that I was such a contrary fellow, that he doubted whether I should
obey his directions; and he should not be surprised to see me there with a hundred men, each
with a gun or pistol under his great-coat. Ha ha! The judge is a sly one."

"One word about that case of murder, to which you have alluded, Mr. Patterson," interposed
Jones, after the jeering laugh with which the sheriff's account was received by Haviland and
Peters, had subsided. "I have heard several mysterious hints thrown out by our opponents about
it, which seemed to imply that the prosecution of the prisoner was got up for private purposes;
and I think I have heard the name of Secretary Brush coupled with the affair. Now, who is the
alleged murderer? and where and when was the crime committed?"

"The fellow passes by the name of Herriot, though it is suspected that this is not his true
name," responded the sheriff. "The crime was committed at Albany, several years ago, when he
killed, or mortally wounded, an intimate friend of Mr. Brush."

"Under what circumstances?"

"Why, from what I have gathered, I should think the story might be something like this: that,
some time previous to the murder, this Herriot had come to Albany, got into company above his
true place, dashed away a while in high life, gambled deeply, and, losing all his own money,
and running up a large debt to this, and other friends of Brush, gave them his obligations
and absconded. But coming there again, for some purpose, a year or two after, with a large
sum of money, it was thought, which had been left or given him by a rich Spaniard, whose life
he had saved, or something of the kind, those whom he owed beset him to pay them, or play again.
But he refused to play, pretending to have become pious, and also held back about paying up
his old debts. Their debts, however, they determined to have, and went to him for that purpose;
when an affray arose, and one of them was killed by Herriot, who escaped, and fled, it seems,
to this section of the country, where he kept himself secluded in some hut in the mountains,
occasionally appear-ing abroad to preach religion and rebellion to the people, by which means
he was discovered, arrested, and imprisoned in Westminster jail, where he awaits his trial
at the coming term of the court. And I presume he will be convicted and hung, unless he makes
friends with Brush to intercede for a pardon, which he probably might do, if the fellow would
disgorge enough of his hidden treasures to pay his debts, and cease disaffecting the people,
which is treason and a hanging matter of itself, for which he, and fifty others in this quarter,
ought, in justice, to be dealt with without benefit of the clergy.--What say you, Squire Haviland?"

"I agree with you fully," replied the squire. "But to return to Judge Chandler's communication:
what steps have you taken, if any, in order to sustain the court in the threatened emergency?"

"Why, just the steps that Chandler knew I should take--sent off one messenger to Brush, there
on the ground at Westminster; another to Rogers, of Kent; and yet another to a trusty friend
in Guilford, requesting each to be on, with a small band of resolute fellows; while I whipped
over to Newfane myself, fixed matters there, and came round to Bennington to enlist David Redding,
and a friend or two more; as I did, after I arrived, last night, though I was compelled to
leave them my sleigh and horses to bring them over, which accounts for my begging a passage
with you. So, you see, that if this beggarly rabble offer to make any disturbance, I shall
be prepared to teach them the cost of attempting to put down the king's court."

"Things are getting to a strange pass among these deluded people, that is certain. I cannot,
however, yet believe them so infatuated as to take this step. But if they should, decided measures
should be taken--such, indeed, as shall silence this alarming spirit at once and forever."

"I hope," observed Miss Haviland, who had been a silent but attentive listener to the dialogue,
"I hope no violence is really intended, either on the part of the authorities or their opponents.
But what do these people complain of? There must be some cause, by which they, at least, think
themselves justified in the movement, surely. Do they consider themselves aggrieved by any
past decisions of the court?"

"O, there are grumblers enough, doubtless, in that respect," answered the sheriff. "And among
other things, they complain that their property is taken and sold to pay their honest debts,
when money is so scarce, they say, that they cannot pay their creditors in currency--just as
if the court could make money for the idle knaves! But that is mere pretence. They have other
motives, and those, too, of a more dangerous character to the public peace."

"And what may those motives be, if it be proper for me to inquire, sir?" resumed the fair questioner.

"Why, in the first place," replied the sheriff, "they have an old and inveterate grudge against
New York, whose jurisdiction they are much predisposed to resist. But to this they might have
continued to demur and submit, as they have done this side of the mountain, had New York adopted
the resolves of the Continental Congress of last December, and come into the American Association,
as it is called, which has no less for its object, in reality, than the entire overthrow of
all royal authority in this country. But as our colony has nobly refused to do this, they are
now intent on committing a double treason--that of making war on New York and the king too."

"Well, I should have little suspected," remarked Haviland, "that the people of this section,
who have shown themselves commendably conservative, for the most part, had any intention of
yielding to the mob-laws of Ethan Allen, Warner, and others, who place the laws of New York
at defiance on the other side of the mountains; and much less that they would heed the resolves
of that self-constituted body of knaves, ignoramuses, and rebels, calling themselves the Continental
Congress."

"Are you not too severe on that body of men, father?" said Miss Haviland, lifting her expressive
eye reprovingly to the face of the speaker. "I have recently read over a list of the members
of the Congress; when I noticed among them the names of men, who, but a short time since, stood
very high, both for learning and worth, as I have often heard you say yourself. Now, what has
changed the characters of these men so suddenly?"

"Why is it, Sabrey," said the old gentleman, with an air of petulance, and without deigning
any direct answer to the troublesome question,--"why is it that you cannot take the opinion
of your friends, who know so much more than you do about these matters, instead of raising,
as I have noticed you have lately seemed inclined to do, questions which seem to imply doubts
of the correctness of the measures of our gracious sovereign and his wise ministers?"

"Why, father," replied the other, with an ingenuous, but somewhat abashed look, "if I have
raised such questions, in relation to the quarrel between the colonies and the mother country,
I have gone on the ground that the party which has the most right on its side would, of course,
have the best reasons for its measures; and as I have not always been able to perceive good
reasons for all the king's measures, I had supposed you would be proud to give them."

The old gentleman, though evidently disturbed and angry at this reply, did not seem inclined
to push the debate any further with his daughter. The other gentlemen, also, looked rather
glum; and for many moments not a word was spoken; when the other young lady, who had not yet
spoken, after glancing round on the gentlemen in seeming expectation that those better reasons
would be given, at length ventured to remark,--

"Well, for my part, it is enough for me that my friends all belong to the loyal party; and
whatever might be said, I know I should always feel that they were in the right, and their
opposers in the wrong."

"And in that, Jane, I think you are wise," responded Jones, with an approving smile. "The complaints
of these disaffected people are based on mistaken notions. They are too ill informed, I fear,
to appreciate the justice and necessity of the measures of our ministers, or to understand
very clearly what they are quarrelling about."

"Ah, that is it," warmly responded Haviland. "That is what I have always said of them. They
don't understand their own rights, or what is for their own good, and should be treated accordingly.
And I think some of our leading men miss it in trying to reason with them. Reason with them!
Ridiculous! As if the common people could understand an argument!"

"You are perfectly right, squire," responded Peters, with eager promptness. "My own experience
among the lower classes fully confirms your opinion. My business, for several years past, has
brought me often in contact with them, in a certain quarter; and I have found them not only
ignorant of what properly belongs to their own rights and privileges, but jealous and obstinate
to a degree that is excessively annoying."

"Friend Peters probably alludes to his experience in the great republic of Guilford," said
Jones, archly.

"There and elsewhere," rejoined the former; "though I have seen quite enough of republicanism
there, for my purpose. One year, the party outvoting their opponents, and coming into power,
upsets every thing done by their predecessors. The next year the upsetters themselves get upset;
and all the measures they had established are reversed for others no better; and so they go
on from year to year, forever quarrelling and forever changing."

"And yet, Peters," resumed Jones, banteringly, "I doubt whether you have been much the loser
by their quarrels."

"How so, Mr. Jones?" asked Haviland, who noticed that Peters had answered only by a significant
smile.

"Why, you know, Squire Haviland," replied Jones, "that I have been on to attend several of
the last sessions of your court, as the agent of Secretary Fanning, [Footnote: Edward Fanning,
secretary to Governor Tryon, New York, before the revolution, obtained, by an act of favoritism
from his master, a grant of the township of Stratton, which, in 1780, Fanning having been appointed
a colonel of a regiment of tories, was confiscated, and re-granted, by the legislature of Vermont,
to William Williams and others. Kent, afterwards Londonderry, which had been granted to James
Rogers, who has been introduced, and who became a tory officer, was also, in like manner, confiscated
and re-granted.] to see to his landed interests in this quarter. Well, friend Peters, here,
who has gone considerably into land speculations east of the mountains, you know, had brought,
it seems, several suits for the possession of lands, mostly in this same Guilford; and among
the rest, one for a right of land in possession of a sturdy young log-roller, whom they called
Harry Woodburn, who appeared in court in his striped woollen frock, and insisted on defending
his own case, as he proceeded to do with a great deal of confidence. But when he came to produce
his deed for the land he contended was his own, it was found, to his utter astonishment, to
bear a later date than the one produced by Peters. This seemed to settle the case against him.
But he appeared to have no notion of giving up so; and, by favor of court, the further hearing
of the case was deferred a day or two, to enable him to procure the town records, which, he
contended, would show the priority of his deed. So he posted back to Guilford for the purpose;
but, on arriving there, found, to his dismay, that the records were nowhere to be found. One
of the belligerent parties of that town, it seems, had broken into the clerk's office, stolen
the records, and buried them somewhere in the ground. The fellow, therefore, had to return,
and submit to a judgment against him. Still, however, he clung to his case, and obtained a
review of it, in expectation that the records would be found before the next court. But the
poor fellow seemed doomed to disappointment. At the next court, no records were forthcoming;
and though he defended his case with great zeal, he was thrown in his suit again; when he concluded,
I suppose, to yield to his fate without further ado."

"Not by any means," said Peters, in a tone of raillery. "He has petitioned for a new trial;
and the question is to come on at this court."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Jones, laughing. "Well, I must confess I have never seen so much dogged
determination exhibited in so hopeless a case. And I really could not help admiring the fellow's
spirit and uncultured force of mind, as much misapplied as, of course, I suppose it to have
been. Your lawyer, Stevens, really appeared, once or twice, to be quite annoyed at his home
thrusts; while lawyer Knights, or Rough-hewn Sam, as they call him, who, either from a sly
wish to see his friend Stevens bothered, or from a real wish to help Harry, volunteered to
whisper a few suggestions in his ear occasionally, sat by, and laughed out of his eyes, till
they ran over with tears, to see a court lawyer so hard pushed by a country bumpkin."

"Pooh! you make too much of the fellow," said Peters, with assumed contempt. "Why, he is a
mere obstinate boor, whose self-will and vanity led him to set up and persevere in a defence
in which he knows there is neither law nor justice."

"And yet, Mr. Peters," observed Miss Haviland, inquiringly, "the young man must have known
that he was making great expense for himself, in obtaining delays and new trials, in the hope
that the lost records would be found. If he was not very confident those records would have
established his right, why should he have done this?"

"O, that was a mere pretence about the records altering the case, doubtless," replied Peters,
with the air of one wishing to hear no more on the subject.

"It may have been so," rejoined the former, doubtfully; "but I should have hardly inferred
it from Mr. Jones's description of the man and his conduct."

"Nor I," interposed the other lady, playfully, but with considerable spirit. "Mr. Jones has
really excited my curiosity by his account of this young plough-jogger. I should like to get
a sight of him--shouldn't you, Sabrey?"

But the latter, though evidently musing on the subject, and mentally discussing some unpleasant
doubts and inferences which it seemed to present to her active mind, yet evaded the question,
and turned the conversation, by directing the attention of her companion and the rest of the
company to a distant object in the wild landscape, which here opened to their view. This was
the tall, rugged mountain, which, rising from the eastern shore of the Connecticut, was here,
through an opening in the trees, seen looming and lifting its snowy crest to the clouds, and
greeting the gladdened eyes of the way-worn travellers with the silent but welcome announcement
that they were now within a few miles of the great river, and in the still more immediate vicinity
of their intended halting-place--the thriving little village which was then just starting into
life, under the auspices of the man from whom its name was derived--the enterprising Colonel
Brattle, of Massachusetts.

Having now the advantage of a road, which, as it received the many concentrating paths of a
thicker settlement, here began to be comparatively firm, the travellers passed rapidly over
the descending grounds, and, in a short time, entered the village. As they were dashing along
towards the village inn, at a full trot, a man, with a vehicle drawn by one horse, approaching
in an intersecting road from the south, struck into the same street a short distance before
them. His whole equipment was very obviously of the most simple character,--a rough board box,
resting on four upright wooden pins inserted into a couple of saplings, which were bent up
in front for runners--the whole making what, in New England phrase, is termed a jumper, constituted
his sleigh. And this vehicle was drawn by a long switch-tailed young pony, whose unsteady gait,
as he briskly ambled along the street, pricking up his ears and veering about at every new
object by the way-side, showed him to be but imperfectly broken. The owner of this rude contrivance
for locomotion was evidently some young farmer from the neighboring country. But although his
dress and mode of travelling seemed thus to characterize him, yet there was that in his personal
appearance, as plain as was his homespun garb, which was calculated to command at once both
attention and respect. And as he now rose and stood firmly planted in his sleigh, occasionally
looking back to watch the motions of the team behind him, with his long, toga-like woollen
frock drawn snugly over his finely-sloping shoulders and well-expanded bust, and closely girt
about at the waist by a neatly-knotted Indian belt, while the flowing folds below streamed
gracefully aside in the wind, he displayed one of those compact, shapely figures, which the
old Grecian sculptors so delighted to delineate. And in addition to these advantages of figure,
he possessed an extremely fine set of features, which were shown off effectively by the profusion
of short, jetty locks, that curled naturally around his white temples and his bold, high forehead.

"Miss McRea--Jane," said Jones, turning round to the amiable girl, and tapping her on the shoulder,
with the confiding smile and tender playfulness of the accepted lover, as he was,--"Jane, you
said, I think, that you should like to get a sight of that spunky opponent of Mr. Peters, whom
we were talking of a little while since--did you not?"

"O, yes, yes, to be sure I did," replied the other briskly; "but why that question, just at
this time?"

"Because, if I do not greatly mistake, that man who is pushing on before us, in yon crazy-looking
establishment, is the self-same young fellow. Is it not so, Peters?"

"I have not noticed him particularly, nor do I care whether it is he or not," answered Peters,
with an affected indifference, with which his uneasy and frowning glances, as he kept his eye
keenly fixed on the person in question, but illy comported. "Well that is the fellow--that
is Harry Woodburn, you may rely on it, ladies," rejoined Jones, gayly, as he faced about in
his seat.

Both young ladies now threw intent and curious glances forward on the man thus pointed out
to them, till they caught, as they did the next moment, a full and fair view of his personal
appearance; when they turned and looked at each other with expressions of surprise, which plainly
indicated that the object of their thoughts was quite a different person from what they had
been led to expect.

"His dress, to be sure, is rather coarse," observed Miss Haviland to her companion, in a low
tone; "but he is no boor; nor can every one boast of--" Here she threw a furtive glance at
Peters, when she appeared to read something in his countenance which caused her to suspend
the involuntary comparison which was evidently passing in her mind, and to keep her eye fixed
on his motions.

The arrogant personage last named, wholly unconscious of this scrutiny, now began to incite
his horses afresh, frequently applying the lash with unwonted severity, and then suddenly curbing
them in, till the spirited animals became so frantic that they could scarcely be restrained
from dashing off at a run. The young farmer, in the mean while, finding himself closely pressed
by those behind him, without any apparent disposition on their part to turn out and pass by
him, now veered partly out of the road, to give the others, with the same change in their course
to the opposite side, an opportunity, if they chose, of going by, as might easily have been
done with safety to all concerned.

"Mr. Peters!" suddenly exclaimed Miss Haviland, in a tone of energetic remonstrance, at the
same time catching at his arm, as if to restrain him from some intended movement, which her
watchful eye had detected.

This appeal, however, which was rather acted than spoken, was unheeded, or came too late; for,
at that instant, the chafing and maddened horses dashed furiously forward, directly over the
exposed corner of the young man's vehicle, which, under the iron-bound feet of the fiercely-treading
animals, and the heavy sleigh runners that followed, came down with a crash to the ground,
leaving him barely time to clear himself from the wreck, by leaping forward into the snow.
Startled by the noise behind him, the frightened pony made a sudden but vain effort to spring
forward with the still connected remains of the jumper, which were, at the instant confined
down by the passing runners of the large sleigh; when snorting and wild with desperation, he
reared himself upright on his hinder legs, and fell over backwards, striking, with nearly the
whole weight of his body, upon his doubled neck, which all saw at a glance was broken by the fall.

With eyes flashing with indignation, young Woodburn bounded forward to the head of the aggressing
team, boldly seized the nearest horse by his nostrils and bridle curb, and, in spite of his
desperate rearing and plunging, under the rapidly applied whip of the enraged driver, soon
succeeded, by daring and powerful efforts, in bringing him and his mate to a stand.

"Let go there, fellow, on your peril!" shouted Peters, choking with rage at his defeat in attempting
to ride over and escape his bold antagonist.

"Not till I know what all this means, sir!" retorted Woodburn, with unflinching spirit.

"Detain us if you dare, you young ruffian!" exclaimed the sheriff, protruding his harsh visage
from one side of the sleigh. "Begone! or I will arrest you in the king's name, sir!"

"You will show your warrant for it first, Mr. Sheriff," replied the former, turning to Patterson
with cool disdain. "I have nothing to do with you, sir; but I hold this horse till the outrage
I have just received is atoned for, or at least explained."

"My good friend," interposed Jones, in a respectful manner, "you must not suppose we have designedly
caused your disaster. Our horses, which are high-mettled, as you see, took a sudden start,
and the mischief was done before they could be turned or checked."

"Now, let go that horse, will you, scoundrel?" again exclaimed Peters, still chafing with anger,
but evidently disturbed and uneasy under the cold, searching looks of the other.

"Hear me first, John Peters!" replied Woodburn, with the same determined manner as before.
"I care not for your abusive epithets, and have only to say of them, that they are worthy of
the source from which they proceed. But you have knowingly and wickedly defrauded me of my
farm; unless I obtain redress, as I little expect, from a court which seems so easily to see
merits in a rich man's claim. Yes, you have defrauded me, sir, out of my hard-earned farm;
and there," he continued, pointing to his gasping horse,--"there lies nearly half of all my
remaining property--dead and gone! ay, and by your act, which, from signs I had previously
noticed, and from the tones of that young lady's exclamation at the instant, (and God bless
her for a heart which could be kind in such company,) I shall always believe was wilfully committed.
And if I can make good my suspicions and a court of law will not give me justice, I will have
it elsewhere! There, sir, go," he added, relinquishing his hold on the horse, and stepping
aside,--"go! but remember I claim a future reckoning at your hands!"

The sleigh now passed on to the yard of the inn, where the company alighted, and soon disappeared
within its doors, leaving the young man standing alone in the road, gazing after them with
that moody and disquieted kind of countenance which usually settles on the face on the subsidence
of a strong gust of passion.

"Poor pony!" he at length muttered, sadly, as, rousing himself, he now turned towards his petted
beast, that lay dead in his rude harness,--"poor pony! But there is no help for you now, nor
for me either, I fear, as illy as I can afford to lose you. But it is not so much the loss,
as the manner--the manner!" he repeated, bitterly, as he proceeded to undo the fastenings of
the tackle, with the view of removing the carcass and the broken sleigh from the road.

While he was thus engaged, a number of men, most of them his townsmen, who being, like himself,
on their way to court, had stopped at the inn, or store, near by, where the noise of the fray
had aroused them, now came hastening to the spot.

"What is all this, Harry?" exclaimed the foremost, as he came up and threw a glance of surprise
and concern on the ruins before him.

"You can see for yourselves," was his moody reply, as others now arrived, and, with inquiring
looks, gathered around him.

"Yes, yes; but how was it done?"

"John Peters, who just drove up to the tavern, yonder, with a load of court gentry, run over
me--that's all," he answered, with an air that showed his feelings to be still too much irritated
to be communicative.

But the company, among whom he seemed to be a favorite were not to be repulsed by a humor for
which they appeared to understand how to make allowance, but continued to press him with inquiries
and soothing words, till their manifestations of sympathy and offers of assistance had gradually
won him into a more cheerful mood; when, throwing off his reserve, he thanked them kindly,
and frankly related what he knew of the affair, the particulars of which obviously produced
a deep sensation among the listeners. All present, after hearing the recital of the facts,
and on coupling them with the well-known disposition of Peters, and his previous injuries to
Woodburn, at once declared their belief that the aggression was intentional, and warmly espoused
this cause of their outraged friend and townsman. A sort of council of war was then holden;
the affair was discussed and set down as another item in the catalogue of injuries and oppressions
of which the court party had been guilty. Individuals were despatched into all the nearest
houses, and elsewhere, for the purpose of discovering what evidence might be obtained towards
sustaining a prosecution. It was soon ascertained, however, that no one had seen the fracas,
except the parties in interest,--all Peters's company being so accounted,--and that, consequently,
no hope remained of any legal redress. On this, some proposed measures of club-law retaliation,
some recommended reprisals on the same principle, and others to force Peters, as soon as he
should appear in the street, to make restitution for the loss he had occasioned. And so great
was the excitement, that had the latter then made his appearance,--which, it seemed, he was
careful not to do,--it is difficult to say what might have been his reception. But contrary
to the expectations of all, Woodburn, who had been thoughtfully pacing up and down the road,
a little aloof from the rest, during the discussion, now came forward, and, in a firm and manly
manner, opposed all the propositions which had been made in his behalf.

"No," said he, in conclusion, "such measures will not bear thinking of. I threatened him myself
with something of the kind you have proposed. But a little reflection has convinced me I was
wrong; for should I take this method of obtaining redress, nowever richly he might deserve
it at my hands, I should but be doing just what I condemn in him, and thus place myself on
a level with him in his despicable conduct. No, we will let him alone, and give him all the
rope he will take; and if he don't hang for his misdeeds, he will doubtless, by his conduct,
aid in hastening on the time, which, from signs not to be mistaken, cannot, I think, be far
distant, when a general outbreak will place him, and all like him, who have been riding over
us here rough-shod for years, in a spot where he and they will need as much of our pity as
they now have of our hatred and fear."

"Ay, ay," responded several, with significant nods and looks; "that time will come, and sooner
than they dream of."

"And then," said one, "it will not be with us as it was with one last fall; when, just as the
winter was coming on, and milk was half our dependence for the children, our only cow was knocked
off by a winking sheriff, for eleven and threepence, to this same Peters."

"Nor as it was with me," said another poorly-clad man of the crowd, "when for a debt, which,
before it was sued, was only the price of a bushel of wheat I bought to keep wife and little
ones from starving, my pair of two-year-olds and seven sheep were all seized and sold under
the hammer, for just enough to pay the debt and costs, to Squire Gale, the clerk of the court,
who is another of those conniving big bugs, who are seen going round with the sheriff, at such
times, with their pockets full of money to buy up the poor man's property for a song, though
never a dollar will they lend him to redeem it with"

"No, my friends," said a tall, stout, broad-chested man, with a clear, frank, and fearless
countenance, who, having arrived at the spot as Woodburn began to speak, had been standing
outside of the crowd, silently listening to the remarks of the different speakers,--"no, my
friends; when the time just predicted arrives, it will no longer be as it has been with any
of us. We shall then, I trust, all be allowed to exercise the right which, according to my
notions, we have from God--that of choosing our own rulers, who, then, would be men from among
ourselves, knowing something about the wants and wishes of the people, and willing to provide
for their distresses in times like these. I have little to say about individual men, or their
acts of oppression; for such men and such acts we may expect to see, so long as this accursed
system of foreign rule is suffered to remain. We had better, therefore, not waste much of our
ammunition on this or that tool of royalty, but save it for higher purposes. And, for this
reason, I highly approve of the course that my young neighbor, Woodburn, has just taken, in
his case; although, from what I have heard I suspect it was an outrageous one."

"Thank you, thank you, Colonel Carpenter," said Woodburn, coming forward and cordially offering
the other his hand; "the approbation of a man like you more than reconciles me to the course
which, I confess, cost me a hard struggle to adopt."

"Ay, you were right, Harry," rejoined the former, "though a hard matter to bear; and though
I am willing this, and all such outrages, should go in to swell the cup of our grievances,
that it may the sooner overflow, yet you were right; and it was spoken, too, like a man. But
let me suggest, whether you, and all present, had not better now disperse. The powers that
be will soon have their eyes upon us, and I would rather not excite their jealousy, at this
time, on account of certain measures we have in contemplation, which I will explain to you
hereafter."

"Your advice is good," returned Woodburn, "and I will see that it is followed, as soon as I
can find some one to dispose of the body of my luckless pony; for then I propose to throw the
harness into some sleigh, and join such of the company here as are on foot on their way to court."

"Put your harness aboard my double sleigh standing in the tavern yard yonder, Harry. And I
am sorry I have too much of a load to ask you to ride yourself. But where shall I leave the
arness?"

"At Greenleaf's store, at the river, if you will; for I conclude you are bound to Westminster,
as well as the rest of us."

"I am, and shall soon be along after you, as I wish to go through to-night, if possible, being
suspicious of a flood, that may prevent me from getting there with a team, by to-morrow. Neither
the rain nor thaw is over yet, if I can read prognostics. How strong and hot this south wind
blows! And just cast your eye over on to West River mountain, yonder--how rapidly those long,
ragged masses of fog are creeping up its sides towards the summit! That sign is never failing."

Woodburn's brief arrangements were soon completed; when he and his newly-encountered foot companions,
each provided with a pair of rackets, or snow-shoes,--articles with which foot-travellers,
when the snow was deep, often, in those times, went furnished,--took up their line of march
down the road leading to the Connecticut, leaving Peters and his company, as well as all others
who had teams, refresing themselves or their horses at the village inn.

But, before we close this chapter, in order that the reader not versed in the antiquarian lore
of those times may more clearly understand some of the allusions of the preceding pages, and
also that he may not question the probability that such a company as we have introduced should
be thus brought together, and be thus on their way to a court so far into the interior of a
new settlement, it may not be amiss here to observe, that the sale and purchase of lands in
Vermont at this period constituted one of the principal matters of speculation among men of
property, not only those residing here, but those residing in the neighboring colonies, and
especially in that of New York; and that the frequent controversies, arising out of disputed
titles, made up the chief business of the court, which, on the erection of a new county by
the legislature of New York, embracing all the south-eastern part of the Grants, and known
by the name of Cumberland, had here, several years before, been established. And it was business
of this kind, and the personal, in addition to the political, interest they had in sustaining
a court, the judges of which were themselves said to be engaged in these speculations, and
therefore expected to favor, as far as might be decent, their brother speculators, that led
to the journey of the present company of loyalists, consisting as before seen, of Haviland,
a large landholder of Bennington; Peters, an unconscientious speculator in the same kind of
property, belonging to a noted family of tories of that name, residing in Pownal, and an adjoining
town in New York; and Jones, the agent of Fanning, from the vicinity of Fort Edward; the fated
Miss McRea, of sad historical memory, from the same place, having been induced to come on with
her lover, at the previous solicitation of her friend, Miss Haviland, to join her, her father,
and Peters, to whom she was affianced in their proposed excursion over the mountains to court.

CHAPTER II.

  "Now forced aloft, bright bounding through the air
   Moves the bleak ice, and sheds a dazzling glare;
   The torn foundations on the surface ride,
   And wrecks of winter load the downward tide."

After travelling a short distance in the road, Woodburn and his companions halted, put on their
snow-shoes, and, turning out to the left into the woods, commenced, with the long, loping step
peculiar to the racket-shod woodsman, their march over the surface of the untrodden snow. The
road just named, which formed the usual route from the village they had quitted to their place
of destination, led first directly to the Connecticut, in an easterly direction, and then,
turning to the north, passed up the river near its western banks, thus describing in its course
a right angle, at the point of which, resting on the river, stood the store of Stephen Greenleaf,
the first, and, for a while, the only merchant in Vermont; whose buildings, with those perhaps
of one or two dependants, constituted the then unpromising nucleus around which has since grown
up the wealthy and populous village of East Brattleborough. Such being the course of the travelled
route, it will readily be seen, that the main object of our foot company, in leaving it, was
the saving of distance, to be effected by striking across this angle to some eligible point
on the northern road. Arid they accordingly pitched their course so as to enter the road near
its intersection with the Wantastiquet, or West River,--one of the larger tributaries of the
Connecticut,--which here comes lolling down from the eastern side of the Green Mountains, and
pours its rock-lashed and rapid waters into the comparatively quiet bosom of the ingulfing
stream below.

After a walk of about half an hour, through alternating fields and forest, they arrived, as
they had calculated, at the banks of the tributary above named, where it was crossed on the
ice by the winter road, which, owing to the failure of the rude bridge near the mouth of the
stream, and the difficulty of descending the bank in its immediate vicinity, had been broken
out through the adjoining meadow and over the river at this point, which was consequently a
considerable distance above the ordinary place of crossing.

On reaching this spot, it was found that the flood, which, on the high grounds, where we have
last been taking the reader, was but little observable, had made, and was evidently still making,
a most rapid progress. The rising waters had already forced themselves through the small but
constantly widening outlets of their strong, imprisoning barriers, and were beginning to hurry
along, in two dark, turbid streams, over the surface of the ice, beneath the opposite banks,
where it was still too strongly confined to the roots and frozen earth to permit of its rising;
while the uplifting mass, in the middle of the river, had nearly attained the level of the
surrounding meadows. And, although the main body still remained unbroken, yet the deep, dull
reports that rose in quick succession to the ear from the cracking mass in every direction
around, and the sharp, hissing, gurgling sounds of the water, which was gushing violently upwards
through the fast multiplying fissures, together with the visible, tremor-like agitation that
pervaded the whole, plainly evinced that it could not long withstand the tremendous pressure
of the laboring column of waters beneath.

The travellers, who were not to be turned back by a foot or two of water in their path over
the ice, so long as the foundation remained firm, drew up a long spruce pole from a neighboring
fence, and, shooting it forward through the first stream of water, passed over upon it to the
uncovered ice; and then, drawing their spar-bridge to the water next the other bank, went through
the same process, till they had all reached the opposite shore unwet and in safety.

Here they again paused to note the appearance of the disturbed elements; for, in addition to
the threatening aspect which the river was here fast assuming, a slight trembling of the ground
began occasionally to be perceptible; while unusual sounds seemed to come mingling from a distance,
with the roaring of the wind and the noise of rushing waters, as if earth, air, and water were
all joining their disturbed forces for some general commotion.

"The water and ice are strangely agitated, it appears to me," observed Woodburn to his companions,
as they stood looking on the scene before them. "See how like a pot the water boils up through
that crevice yonder! Then hear that swift, lumbering rush of the stream beneath! The whole
river, indeed, seems fairly to groan, like some huge animal confined down by an insupportable
burden, from which it is laboring to free itself. I have noticed such appearances, I think,
when the ice was on the point of breaking up; but that can hardly be the case here, at present
can it?"

"On the point of breaking up, now?" said one of the company in reply. "No, indeed! Why, the
ice is more than three feet thick, and as sound and solid as a rock. Should it rain from this
time till to-morrow noon, it won't start."

"Well, now, I don't know about that," remarked an observant old settler, who had been silently
regarding the different portents to which we have alluded. "I don't know about the ice staying
here twenty hours, or even one. This has been no common thaw, that we have had for the last
six or eight hours, let me tell you."

"And still," observed Woodburn, "I should not think the water high enough as yet to cause a
breaking up, should you?"

"With a slow rise, and in a still time, perhaps not, Harry. But when the water is rising rapidly,
as now, and especially if there is a strong wind, like this, to increase the motion, as it
does either by outward pressure, or by forcing the air through the chinks in under the ice,
I have always noticed that the stream acts on the ice at a much less height, and much more
powerfully, than when the rise is slow and the weather calm."

"Then you look upon the appearances I named as indications that such an event is soon to take
place here, do you?"

"I do, Harry, much sooner than you are expecting; for the signs you name are not the only ones
which tell that story, as I will soon convince you all, if you will be still and listen a moment."

This remark caused the company to pause and place themselves in a listening attitude.

"There," resumed the speaker, pointing up to the bold, shaggy steeps of the mountain, which
we have before alluded to, and which, from the opposite side of the Connecticut, and within
a few furlongs from the spot where they now stood, rose, half concealed in its "misty shroud,"
like some huge battlement, to the heavens--"there! do you hear that dull roar, with occasionally
a crashing sound, away up there among those clouds of fog near the top peaks of the mountain?"

"Ay, ay, quite distinctly."

"Well, that is an echo, which, strangely enough, we can hear when we can't the original sound,
and which is made by the striking up there of the roar of the river above us; that of course
must be open, having already broken up and got the ice in motion somewhere. But hark again!
Now, don't you hear that rumbling noise? Can't you, now, both hear and feel those quick, irregular,
deep, jarring sounds?"

"Yes, plainly--very plainly, now--you are right. Sure enough, the ice in the river above us
is on the move!" responded all, with excited looks.

"To be sure it is; and from the noise it makes, it must be coming down upon us with the speed
of a race-horse! Let us all to the hills, boys, where we can get a fair view of the spectacle."

The company, accordingly, now all ran to gain the top of a neighboring swell, which commanded
a view of West River for a long distance up the stream, as well as one of a considerable reach
of the more distant Connecticut, both of which views were obstructed, at the spot they had
just left, by a point of woods and turn in the river in the former instance, and by intervening
hills in the latter.

Among the many wild and imposing exhibitions of nature, peculiar to the mountainous regions
of our northern clime, there is no one, perhaps, of more fearful magnificence, than that which
is sometimes presented in the breaking up of one of our large rivers by a winter flood; when
the ice, in its full strength, enormous thickness, and rock-like solidity, is rent asunder,
with loud, crashing explosions, and hurled up into ragged mountains, and borne onward before
the raging torrent with inconceivable force and frightful velocity, spreading devastation along
the banks in its course, and sweeping away the strongest fabrics of human power which stand
opposed to its progress, like the feeble weeds that disappear from the path of a tornado.

Such a spectacle, as they reached their proposed stand, now burst on the view of the astonished
travellers. As far as the eye could reach upwards along the windings of the stream, the whole
channel was filled with the mighty mass of ice, driving down towards them with fearful rapidity,
and tumbling, crashing, grinding, and forcing its way, as it came, with collisions that shook
the surrounding forest, and with the din and tumult of an army of chariots rushing together
in battle. Here, tall trees on the bank were beaten down and overwhelmed, or, wrenched off
at the roots and thrown upwards, were whirled along on the top of the rushing volume, like
feathers on the tossing wave. There, the changing mass was seen swelling up into mountain-like
elevations, to roll onward a while, and, then gradually sinking away, be succeeded by another
in another form; while, with resistless front, the whole immense moving body drove steadily
on, ploughing and rending its way into the unbroken sheet of ice before it, which burst, divided,
and was borne down beneath the boiling flood, or hurled upwards into the air, with a noise
sometimes resembling the sounds of exploding muskets, and sometimes the crash of falling towers.

But the noise of another and similar commotion in an opposite direction, now attracted their
attention, They turned, and their eyes were greeted with a scene, which, though less startling
from its distance, yet even surpassed, in picturesque grandeur, the one they had just been
witnessing. Through the whole visible reach of the Connecticut, a long, white, glittering column
of ice, with its ridgy and bristling top towering high above the adjacent banks, was sweeping
by and onward, like the serried lines of an army advancing to the charge; while the broad valley
around even back to the summits of the far-off hills, was resounding with the deafening din
that rose from the extended line of the booming avalanche, with the deep rumblings of an earthquake
mingled with the tumultuous roar of an approaching tempest.

The attention of the company, however, was now drawn from this magnificent display of the power
of the elements, by an object of more immediate interest to their feelings. This was an open
double sleigh, approaching, on the opposite side of the river, towards the place at which they
had just crossed over, in the manner we have described. The mountain mass of ice that was still
forcing its way down the river before them, with increasing impetus, was now within three hundred
yards of the pass, to which those in the sleigh were hastening, with the evident design of
crossing. And though the latter, owing to a point of woods that intervened at a bend in the
stream a short distance above, could not see the coming ice, yet they seemed aware of its dangerous
proximity; for, as they now drove down to the edge of the water, they paused, and a large man,
who appeared to have control of the team, rose to his feet, and with words that could not be
distinguished in the roaring of the wind and the noise from the scene above, made an appealing
gesture, which was readily understood by our foot travellers as an inquiry whether the team
would have time to cross before the ice reached the spot.

"It is Colonel Carpenter and his company," said Woodburn. "He will have no time to spare, but
enough, I think, if he instantly improves it, to get safely over. He has smart horses, and
is anxious to be on this side of the river. Let him come."

Accordingly, they returned him encouraging gestures, which being seen and understood by him,
he instantly whipped up his horses, and, forcing them on the ice, soon effected his passage
in safety, and drove rapidly down the road, leading along the northern bank of the stream to
Connecticut, the object of his speed being obviously to keep forward of the icy flood, which
by his progress might otherwise be soon obstructed.

"There," resumed Woodburn, breaking the silence with which he and his companions had been witnessing
the rather hazardous passage of their friends,--"there, the colonel is well over; but his is
the last sleigh to cross this year, unless it be drawn by winged horses."

"Well, winged, or not winged, there is another, it seems, about to make the attempt," said
one of the company, pointing across the river, where a covered double sleigh, with showy equipage
was dashing at full speed down the road towards the stream.

"It is a hostile craft!" "Peters and his gang!" "We owe them no favors!" "Let the enemy take
care of themselves!" were the exclamations which burst from the recently-incensed group, as
all eyes were now turned to the spot.

"O, no! no!" exclaimed Woodburn, with looks of the most lively concern. "Be they foes or friends,
they must not be suffered to enter upon that river. Why, the breaking ice has already nearly
reached the bend, and unless it stops there, that path across the stream, within five minutes,
will be as traceless as the ocean! Run down to the bank, and hail them!" he continued, turning
to those around him. "I fear they would not listen to me. Will no one go to warn them against
an attempt which must prove their destruction?" he added, reproachfully glancing around him.

"Shall we interfere unasked?" said one, who was smarting under a sense of former injuries;
"ay, and interfere, too, to save such a man as Peters, that he may go on robbing us of our farms?"

"And save such a man as Sheriff Patterson, also, that he may hang the innocent and pious Herriot?"
said another, bitterly.

"And save them all, that they may keep up the court which will soon hang or rob the whole of
us?" added a third, in the same spirit.

"O, wrong--wickedly wrong! and, if no one will go, I must," cried Woodburn, turning hastily
from the spot, and making his way down the hill towards the river with all the speed he was
master of.

A few seconds sufficed to bring him to the edge of the stream, when, in a voice that rose above
the roar of the wind and waters around, he called on Peters, who was already urging his reluctant
and snorting horses down the opposite bank into the water, warned him of the situation of the
ice, and begged him, as he valued the lives of his friends, to desist from his perilous attempt.

"Do you think to frighten me?" shouted Peters, who, perceiving the speaker to be his despised
opponent, became suspicious, as the latter had feared, that the warning was but a ruse to prevent
him from going on that night,--"do you think to frighten me back, liar, when a heavy team has
just passed safely over before my eyes?"

And, in defiance of the timely caution he had received, and the warning sounds, of which his
senses might have apprised him, had he paused a moment to listen, he furiously applied the
whip, and plunged madly through the water towards the middle ice But as rapidly as he drove,
the team had not passed over more than one third of the distance across, before he and all
with him became fully aware of the fearful peril they had so recklessly incurred; for, at this
critical moment, with awful brunt, the mountain wave of icy ruins came rolling round the screening
point into full view, and not fifty yards above them. A cry of alarm at once burst from every
occupant of the menaced vehicle and Peters, no less frightened than the rest, suddenly checked
the horses, with the half-formed design of turning and attempting to regain the shore he had
just left. But on glancing round, he beheld, to his dismay, the ice burst upward from its winter
moorings along the shore, leaving between them and the bank a dark chasm of whirling waters,
over which it were madness to think of repassing. At that instant, with a deep and startling
report, the broad sheet of ice confining the agitated river burst asunder parted, and was afloat
in a hundred pieces around them. Another piercing cry of terror and distress issued from the
devoted sleigh and Miss Haviland, with an involuntary impulse at the fearful shock, leaped
out on to the large cake of ice on which the sleigh and horses were resting. She seemed instantly
to perceive her error; but before she could regain the sleigh, or even be caught by the extended
hands of her friends, the frightened horses made a sudden and desperate lunge forward, and,
with a speed that could neither be checked nor controlled, dashed onward over the dissevering
mass, leaping from piece to piece of their sinking support, and each in turn falling in, to
be drawn out by his mate, till they reached the shore, and rushed furiously up the bank, beyond
the sweep of the dreadful torrent from which they had so miraculously escaped.

"O God of heaven, have mercy on my daughter!" exclaimed Haviland, in a piteous burst of anguish,
as he sprang out of the sleigh among the company, who, with horror-stricken looks, stood on
the bank mutely gazing on the fast receding form of the luckless maiden, thus left behind,
to be borne away, in all human probability, to speedy destruction.

For a moment no one stirred or spoke, all standing amazed, and seemingly paralyzed at the thought
of her awful situation having no hope of her rescue, and expecting every instant to see her
crushed, or ingulfed among the ice that was wildly heaving and tumbling on every side around
her. But fortunately for her, the broad, solid block, on which she had alighted, and on which
she continued still to retain her stand, was, by the submerged and rising masses beneath, gradually
and evenly forced upwards to the top of the column, with which it was moving swiftly down the
current. And there she stood, like a marble statue on its pedestal, sculptured for some image
of woe, her bonnet thrown back from her blanched features, and her loosened hair streaming
wildly in the wind; while one hand was extended doubtfully towards the shore, and the other
lifted imploringly to heaven, as if in supplication for that aid from above, which she now
scarcely hoped to receive from her friends below.

"O Sabrey, Sabrey! must you indeed perish?" at length burst convulsively from Miss McRea, in
the most touching accents of distress.

"Is there no help? Can no one save her?" added the agonized father.

"Yes, save her--save her!" exclaimed Peters, now eagerly addressing the men he affected so
to despise. "Can't some of you get on to the ice there, and bring her off? Five guineas to
the man who will do it; yes, ten! Quick! run, run, or you'll be too late," he added, turning,
from one to another, without offering to start himself.

Throwing a look of silent scorn on his contemptible foe, Woodburn, having been anxiously casting
about him in thought for some means of rescuing the ill-fated girl from her impending doom,
now, with the air of one acting only on his own responsibility, hastily called on his companions
to follow him, and led the way, with rapid strides, down along the banks of the stream, as
near the main channel as the water and ice, already bursting over the banks into the road,
would permit. But although he could easily keep abreast of the fair object of his anxiety,
of whom he occasionally obtained such glimpses through the brushwood here lining the banks
as to show him that she still retained her footing on the same block of ice, which still continued
to be borne on with the surrounding mass, yet he could perceive no way of reaching her--no
earthly means by which she could be snatched from the terrible doom that seemed so certainly
to await her; for along the whole extent of the moving ice, and even many rods in advance of
it, the water, dammed up, and forced from the choked channel, was gushing over the banks, and
sweeping down by their sides in a stream that nothing could withstand. And, to add to the almost
utter hopelessness with which he was compelled to view her situation, he now soon began to
be admonished that she was immediately threatened by a danger from which she had thus far been
so providentially preserved--that of being crushed or swallowed up at once in the broken ice.
He could perceive, from the increasing commotion of the ice around her, that her hitherto level
and unbroken support was growing every moment more insecure and uncertain. And as it rose and
fell, or was pitched forward and thrown up aslant, in the changing volume, he could plainly
hear her piteous shrieks, and see her flying from side to side of the plunging body, to avoid
being hurled into the frightful chasms which were continually yawning to receive her.

"Lost! lost!" he uttered with a sigh; "no earthly aid can now avail her. But stay! stay!" he
continued, as his eye fell on the two or three remaining beams or string-pieces of the old
bridge still extended across the river a short distance below. "If she reaches that place alive,
and I can but gain the spot in time, I may yet save her. O Heaven, help me to the speed and
the means of rescuing her from this dreadful death!"

And calling loudly to his companions, whom he had already outstripped, to come on, he now set
forward, with all possible speed, for the place which afforded the last chance for the poor
girl's rescue. The banks of the river, at the point which it was now his object to gain, were
so much more elevated than those above, that he had little fear of finding the path leading
on to the bridge obstructed by the water. And it had glanced through his mind, as he descried
this forgotten spot, and saw the remains of the bridge still standing, that the maiden might
here be assisted to escape on to the bank, or be drawn up by a cord, or some other implement,
to the top of the bridge, which, being high above the ordinary level of the water, would not
probably be swept away by the ice, at least not till that part of it on which she was situated
should have passed under it. There was an occupied log-house standing but a short distance
from the place, and the owner, as Woodburn drew near, was, luckily, just making his appearance
at the door.

"A rope, a rope! be ready with a rope," shouted Woodburn, pointing to the scene of trouble,
as soon as he could make himself understood by the wondering settler.

The man, after a hurried glance from the speaker to the indicated scene, and thence to the
bridge below, during which he seemed to comprehend the nature of the emergency, instantly disappeared
within the door. In another moment Woodburn came up, and burst into the house, where he found
the settler and his wife eagerly running out the rope of their bedstead, which had been hastily
stripped of the bed and clothing, and the fastenings cut, for the purpose. The instant the
rope was disengaged, was seized by the young man, who, bidding the other to follow, rushed
out of the house, and bounded forward to the bridge, which they both reached just as the unbroken
ice was here beginning to quake and move from the impulse of the vast body above, which, now
scarcely fifty paces distant, was driving down, with deafening crash, towards them.

"Thank Heaven, she yet lives, and is nearing us!" exclaimed Woodburn, as he ran out on to the
partially covered beams of the bridge, where he could obtain a clear view of the channel above.

She is there, hedged in, though as yet riding securely in the midst of that hideous jam, but,
if not drawn up here, will be the next moment lost among the spreading mass, as it is disgorged
into the Connecticut here below."

"Shall we throw down an end of the rope for her to catch?" said the settler, hastening to Woodburn's
side.

"I dare not risk her strength to hold on to it; I must go down myself," said Woodburn, hurriedly
knotting the two ends of the cord round his body. "Now stand by me, my friend. Brace yourself
back firmly on this string-piece; let me down, and the instant I have secured her in my arms,
draw us both up together."

"I can let you down; but to draw you both up--" replied the other, hesitating at the thought
of the hazardous attempt.

"You must try it," eagerly interrupted the intrepid young man, "My friends will be here in
a moment to aid you. There she comes! be ready! Now!"

Accordingly, sliding over the edge of the bridge, Woodburn was gradually let down by the strong
and steady hands of the settler, till he was swinging in the air, on a level with that part
of the approaching mass on which stood the half-senseless object of his perilous adventure.
The foremost of the broken ice was now sweeping swiftly by, just beneath his feet. Another
moment, and she will be there! She evidently sees the preparation for her deliverance; a faint
cry of joy escapes her lips, and her hands are extended towards the proffered aid. And now,
riding high on the billowy column, she is borne on nearer and nearer towards those who wait,
in breathless silence, for her approach. And now she comes--she is here! She is caught in the
eager grasp of the brave youth; and, the next instant, by the giant effort of the strong man
above them, they are together drawn up within a few feet of the bending and tottering bridge.
But with all his desperate exertions, he can raise them no higher, and there they hang suspended
over the dark abyss of whirling waters that had opened in the disrupturing mass beneath, at
the instant, as if to receive them; while a mountain billow of ice, that must overwhelm them
with certain destruction, is rolling down, with angry roar, within a few rods of the spot.
A groan of despair burst from the exhausted man at the rope; and his grasp was about to give way.

"Hold on there, an instant! one instant longer!" cried a loud voice on the right, where a tall,
muscular form was seen bounding forward to the spot.

"Quick, Colonel Carpenter! quick! O, for God's sake, quick!" exclaimed the settler, throwing
an anguished and beseeching glance over his shoulder towards the other.

The next instant, the powerful frame of the new-comer was bending over the grasped rope; and,
in another, both preservers and preserved were on the bridge, from which they had barely time
to escape, before it was swept away, with a loud crash, and borne off on the top of the mighty
torrent. They were met on the bank by the companions of Woodburn, and the friends of the rescued
maiden, who came promiscuously running to the spot; when loud and long were the gushing acclamations
of joy and gratitude that rang wildly up to heaven at the unexpected deliverance.

CHAPTER III.

  "The king can make a belted knight,
   Confer proud names, and a' that;
   But pith of sense and pride of worth
   Are brighter ranks than a' that."

The village of Westminster yields, perhaps, in the tranquil and picturesque beauty of its location,
to few others in New England. In addition to the advantage of a situation along the banks of
that magnificent river, of which our earliest epic poet, Barlow, in his liquid numbers, has sung,

  "No watery glades through richer valleys shine,
   Nor drinks the sea a lovelier wave than thine,"

it stands upon an elevated plain, that could scarcely have been made more level had it been
smoothed and evened, by the instruments of art, to fit it for the arena of some vast amphitheatre,
which the place, with the aid of a little fancy, may be very easily thought to resemble; for,
from the principal street, which is nearly a mile in extent, broad and beautiful fields sweep
away in every direction, till they meet, in the distance, that crescent-like chain of hills,
by which, with the river, the place is enclosed.

It was probably this natural beauty of the place, together with its proximity to the old fort
at Walpole, at which a military establishment was once maintained by the government of New
Hampshire for the protection of its frontier, that led to the early settlement and rapid growth
of this charming spot, which, having been entered by the pioneers as far back as 1741, continued
so to increase and prosper, though on the edge of a wilderness unbroken, for many years, for
hundreds of miles on the north, that, at the opening of the American revolution, it was the
most populous and best built village in Vermont.

This place, at the period chosen for the beginning of our tale, had been, for several years,
the seat of justice for all the southern part of this disputed territory, under the assumed
jurisdiction of New York, in which a majority of the inhabitants seemed to have tacitly acquiesced.
And the most prominent of its public buildings, as might be expected, was the Court House,
embracing the jail under the same roof. This was a spacious square edifice conspicuously located,
and of very respectable architecture for the times. The village, also, contained a meeting-house,
school house, and the usual proportion of stores and taverns. The whole place, indeed, had
now nearly passed into the second stage of existence, in American villages, when the pioneer
log-houses have given place to the more airy and elegant framed buildings; and, compared with
other towns, which, in this new settlement, were then just emerging from the wilderness, it
wore quite an ancient appearance.

Among the most commodious and handsome of the many respectable dwellings which had here been
erected, was that of Crean Brush, Esquire, colonial deputy secretary of New York, and also
an active member of the legislature of that colony for this part of her claimed territory.
This house, at the sessions of the courts, especially, was the fashionable place of resort
for what was termed the court party gentry, and other distinguished persons from abroad. To
the interior of this well-furnished and affectedly aristocratic establishment, we will now
repair, in order to resume the thread of our narrative.

In an upper chamber of the house, at a late hour of the same evening on which occurred the
exciting scenes described in the preceding pages, sat the two young ladies, to whom the reader
has already been introduced, silently indulging in their different reveries before an open
fire. They had safely arrived in town, about an hour before, with all their company, except
Jones, who had been left at Brattleborough; and having been consigned to the family of this
mansion, with whom they had formed a previous acquaintance at Albany, where Brush, the greater
part of the year, resided, and where both of the young ladies were educated, they had taken
some refreshment, and retired to the apartment prepared for their reception. The demeanor of
these fair companions, always widely different, was particularly so at the present moment.
Miss Haviland, with her chin gracefully resting on one folded hand, and her calm and beautiful,
but now deeply-clouded brow, shaded by the white, taper fingers of the other, was abstractedly
gazing into the glowing coals on the hearth before her, while the gentle, but less reflective
McRea, with a countenance disturbed only by the passing emotions of sympathy that occasionally
flitted over it, as she glanced at the downcast face of her friend, sat quietly preparing for
bed, by removing her ornaments, and adjusting those long, golden tresses, with which, in after
times, her memory was destined to become associated in the minds of tearful thousands, while
reading the melancholy history of her tragic fate.

"Come, Sabrey," at length said the latter, soothingly, "come, cheer up. I cannot bear to see
you so dejected. I would not brood over that frightful scene any longer, but, feeling grateful
and happy at my escape, would dismiss it as soon as possible from my mind."

"I am, Jane," responded the other, partially rousing herself from her reverie; "I am both grateful
and happy at my providential escape. But you are mistaken in supposing it is that scene which
disquiets me to-night."

"Indeed!" replied the former, with a look of mingled surprise and curiosity. "Why, I have been
attributing your dejection and absence of mind, this evening, to that cause alone. What else
can have occurred to disturb your thoughts to-night, let me ask?"

"Jane, in confidence, I will tell you," replied Miss Haviland, looking the other in the face,
and speaking in a low, serious tone. "It is the discovery which I have made, or at least think
I have, this day, made, respecting the true character of one who should command, in the relation
I stand with him, my entire esteem."

"Mr. Peters? Though of course it is he to whom you allude. But what new trait have you discovered
in him, to-day, that leads you to distrust his character?"

"What I wish I had not; what I still hope I may be deceived in; but what, nevertheless, forces
itself upon my mind, in spite of all my endeavors to resist it. You recollect Mr. Jones's account
of the lawsuit, in which Mr. Peters succeeded in obtaining the farm of this Mr. Woodburn, whose
gallant conduct we have all this afternoon witnessed?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Well, did you think that story, when rightly viewed, was very creditable to Mr. Peters?"

"I am not sure I understood the case sufficiently to judge; did you?"

"Well enough, Jane, with the significant winks that passed between Peters and the sheriff,
to convince me that an unjust advantage had been taken. But perhaps I could have been brought
to believe myself mistaken in this conclusion, had I seen nothing else to confirm it, and lower
him still more in my esteem."

"What else did you see?

"An exhibition of malice, Jane, which astonished as much as it pained me. That pretended accident,
in running over Woodburn, was designed--nay, coolly designed."

"Why, Sabrey Haviland! how can you talk, how can you believe, so about one whose betrothing
ring is now on your finger?"

"It is indeed painful to do so; but truth compels me."

"Might you not have been mistaken?"

"No; I saw the whole movement. I had been watching him some time, and I noticed how he prepared
those fiery horses of his for a sudden spring, and saw the look of malicious exultation accompanying
the final act. And even now, I shudder to think what guilt he might have incurred! Even as
it resulted, only in the destruction of property, how can I help being shocked at the discovery
of a secret disposition which could have prompted such a deed? O, how different has been the
conduct of him who has thus been made the victim of his misusage!"

"Different! Why, what has he done? I was not aware--"

"True, I am reminded that I have not told you. That loquacious landlady, where we stopped to
dine, told me, as we were coming away, that there had been a great excitement among the people
in the street, about the outrage; and that Peters would certainly have been mobbed, if Woodburn
had not interfered and prevented it."

"Indeed! I should have hardly expected so much magnanimity in one of his class. It was truly
a noble return for the injuries he had received from Peters."

"Ay, and by this last act of saving my life, he has still more nobly revenged himself upon
Peters, and upon us all."

"Assisted to save you, I conclude you mean; for I heard Peters tell your father, that it was
the settler who lived in the house near by, and Colonel Carpenter, who finally rescued you."

"Did he tell my father that story, without mentioning Woodburn?" asked Miss Haviland, with
a look of mingled surprise and displeasure.

"Yes, as he came back to meet us with the news, while we were getting round with the sleigh
to the spot."

"Well, my father shall know the truth of the case; and Mr. Woodburn, though he did not boast
of his services, nor even stay to give me an opportunity to thank him for what he had done,
shall also know that we are not insensible to his gallant conduct; for, whatever they may say,
Jane, I am indebted to him for my life. As dreadful as was my situation among that crashing
mass of ice, with which I was borne onward down the stream, I saw all that was done. He led
the way from the first, contrived the plan, and with the assistance of the hesitating settler,
carried it into execution, with a promptitude that alone could have saved me. It is true, that
we both must have perished but for the timely arrival of Colonel Carpenter; but that detracts
nothing from the merits of Mr. Woodburn, who, as we hung suspended over that frightful abyss,
I knew and felt, was throwing his life to the winds to save mine. O, why could it not have
been, as I have often said to myself during our cheerless ride this evening,--why could it
not have been Peters, to perform all that I have this day seen in that poor, despised, and
persecuted young man?"

"Why, Mr. Peters certainly appeared much alarmed, and anxious that something should be done
to save you," replied Miss McRea, after a thoughtful pause, produced by the words and fervid
manner of her companion.

"Then why did he leave it to another to save me?" responded the former, severely.

"That I do not know, certainly," replied the other; "but he at once bestirred himself, and
I heard him offer five guineas, and I think he doubled the price the next moment, to any one
who would go on to the ice and bring you off."

"Five guineas!" exclaimed Miss Haviland, starting to her feet, with a countenance eloquent
with scorn and contempt--"five guineas, and at a pinch, ten! What a singular fountain must
that be, from which such a thought, at such a time, could have flowed! Had it been one of those
favorite horses, it would have sounded well enough, perhaps, though I think he would have offered
more. It is well, however, that I now know the price at which I am estimated," she added, bitterly.

"It does sound rather strangely, now you have named it," responded Miss McRea, abashed at the
unexpected construction put on what she had communicated, and mortified and half vexed, that
every attempt she had made to remove her friend's difficulties only made the matter worse:
"it sounds oddly, to be sure, but I presume he did not mean any thing."

"O, no, I dare say; nor did he do any thing, as I can learn, through the whole affair, except
attempt to deprive Woodburn of the credit he had gained. Jane," she continued, with softened
tone, "what would you have thought, had you been in my situation, and your lover had acted
such a part?"

"I should have thought--I don't know what I should have thought," replied the other, with a
feeling which showed how quickly the appeal had taken effect. "But I should have had no occasion
to have any thought about it; for I know he would have been the one to save me, or die with
me. O, I wish Mr. Jones had come on with us, for had he been there, so good and so brave as
he is, I am sure even you need not have become so deeply indebted to this low young fellow."

"Low, Jane, low?" said the former, reprovingly. "Was it low to overlook so easily the injury
and affront he had received from Peters, and then return good for evil? And was it low to rescue
me from the raging flood, by exertions and risk of life, which would have done credit to the
first hero in the land?"

"O, no, not that; I did not mean that; for his conduct has been generous and noble indeed;
and from the first, when I heard Mr. Jones's account of him, I was disposed to think highly
of the man, for one in his situation of life. I only meant that he did not belong to our party,
but was one of the lower classes of society."

"It is true he may not belong to our party, Jane; but how much should that weigh in the argument?
Perhaps at this very hour, two thirds of the American people would count it as weight to the
other part of the balance. And even I, trained as I have been by and among the highest toned
loyalists, wish I could help doubting that our party is the only one that has right and reason
on its side. And as to the claim of belonging to what is called the first society, I can only
say that I wish many, who are allowed that claim among us, were as worthy of the place as I
think Woodburn is. I have always loved Justice for her beautiful self and hated her opposite;
and I never could see how those who are guided by her and the kindred virtues, could be accounted
low, or how, or why, those who lack these qualities could claim to be called high. Is it any
wonder then, Jane, that I should feel troubled and distressed at discoveries which, in my mind,
reverse the situation that my friends assign to the two individuals of whom we have been speaking?"

"O, you are too much of a philosopher for me in all that," replied Jane, "Come, be a woman
now, Sabrey, and I will discuss the matter with you, claiming, perhaps, a little, a very little,
of the right of the confessor. I can easily understand how painful it would be to have doubts
of the character of one's lover, and I can also understand," she continued, looking a little
archly, "how one, who did not love a suitor very hard, could feel grateful--yes, very grateful--to
a good-looking young man who had behaved gallantly. And I have a good mind to half suspect--"

"Hark!" interrupted the other, hurriedly, while a slight tinge became visible on her cheek--"hark!
did you hear the striking of the house clock below? It is telling the hour of midnight. Let
us dismiss these embarrassing thoughts, and retire to our repose. Your prospects, Jane," she
continued, rising and speaking in a sad and gently expostulatory tone--"your prospects are
bright with love and happiness; and it will be ungenerous and cruel in you to say aught which
will deepen the shade that I fear is coming over mine."

"O, I will not, Sabrey," warmly returned the kind-hearted Jane. "I did not intend it. Forgive
me, do; and we will dismiss the subject for something which will give us pleasanter dreams,
and then, as you say, go to rest and enjoy them."

Leaving these fair friends to their slumbers, disquieted or sweetened by the various visions
which the incidents of the day had been calculated to excite in the bosom of each, we will
now repair to a lower apartment of the house, to note the doings of a select band of court
dignitaries there assembled, for a purpose concerning which a spectator, at the first glance,
might, from the appearances, be at a loss to decide whether it was one of revelry or secret
consultation, so much did it partake of the character of both.

Around a long table, well furnished with wine and glasses, sat a select company of gentlemen,
whose dress and deportment denoted them to be persons of the first consequence. And such, indeed,
may be said to have been the fact, till the present time, for the party embraced the judges
and officers of the court, and such of the most stanch and influential of their supporters
as could be convened for a special consultation, which, it was considered, the portents of
the times demanded. Here was the aristocratic and haughty Brush, the host, and leading spirit
of the party, with his florid face, cracking his jokes and ridiculing "the boorish settlers,"
in which he was sure to find a ready response in the boisterous laugh of Peters and other young
supporters of the court and loyal party. Here, too, sat the fiery and profane Gale, the clerk
of the court, with his thin, angular features, and forbidding brow, occasionally exploding
with his short, bitter, barking laugh, as, with many an oath, he dealt out anticipated vengeance
on all those who should dare cross the path of the established authorities. And here also was
Chandler, the chief judge of the court, with his plausible manners, affectedly sincere look,
and deferential smile, as he exchanged the whisper and meaning glance with his colleague, Judge
Sabin, a stern, reserved, and bigoted loyalist, or as he nodded approbation to the remarks,
whatever they might be, of those around him. These with Stearns, a tory lawyer of some note,
Rogers, a tory land holder, Haviland, and a few others, all leading and trusty supporters of
the court party, constituted the company, or rather the cabinet council, here convened, all
of whom, as appeared by the entire freedom of their remarks, were fully in each other's confidence.

There was one person in the room, however, who had no thought or feeling in common with the
rest of those present, but who did not appear to be deemed by them of sufficient consequence
to be interrogated in relation to his opinions, or of sufficient capacity to comprehend what
was said in his presence, at least not to any degree which might render it unsafe that he should
hear the discussion so unreservedly going forward. This person, who was acting in the capacity
of waiter to the company, being under a temporary engagement to the master of the house, to
serve him in such work as might be wanted about the house and stables, was a youth, of perhaps
eighteen, of quite an ordinary, and even singular appearance. His figure was low and slight,
and he was made to appear the more diminutive, perhaps, by his dress, which consisted of short
trousers, a long, coarse jacket, and a flat woollen cap, drawn down to the eyebrows. His hair,
hanging, in lank locks, to his shoulders, was light and sandy, and his face was deeply freckled;
while a pair of long, falling eyelashes contributed to add still further to the peculiarity
of his looks, and to give his countenance, with those who did not note the keen, bright orbs
that occasionally peeped from their usually impenetrable coverts, a sleepy and listless appearance.
He now sat on the top of a high wood-box, placed near one corner of the chimney, with his legs
dangling over one end of the box, and his head drooping sluggishly towards the fire, apparently
as unconscious of what was said and done in the room, as the little black dog that lay sleeping
on the floor beneath his feet.

"Here, Bart," exclaimed Brush, as the company, having dropped the discussion of all weighty
matters, were now briskly circulating the bottle, and beginning to give way to noisy merriment--"here,
Bart, you sleepy devil, come and snuff these candles. Our chap here," he continued, winking
archly to those around him--"our chap Bart, or Barty Burt, to give the whole of his euphonious
name, gentlemen, may be considered an excellent specimen of the rebel party, who talk so wisely
about self-government, sitting under one's own vine and fig-tree, and all that sort of thing;
for; in the first place, he has a great deal of wisdom, handy to be got at, it all lying in
his face. And then he is so much for self-government that no one can govern him in anything.
Then again, as to the idea of sitting under a fig-tree, I think it is one that Bart would most
naturally entertain; for had he a tree to sit under, be it fig or bass-wood, and enough to
eat, he would sit there till he was gray, before he would think of moving."

"Not badly drawn, that similitude," said Stearns, after the burst of laughter, by which these
remarks were greeted, had a little subsided; "but methinks I see a flaw therein, friend Brush:
you said our young republican's wisdom, alias ideas, all lay in his face; and then, in the
matter of the fig-tree, you go on to intimate he has one distinct idea in his head, thereby
lessening the force and exactness of the comparison, as I think you will allow."

"I crave pardon, gentlemen," cried the secretary; "I should have qualified; for, really, I
have several times seriously suspected Bart to have ideas, or, at least, one whole idea of
his own; and if you think that is too much to allow the individuals of the party generally,
with whom I have compared him, why, then I must knock under, that's all."

"You are down! you are down, then, Brush!" shouted several, with another uproarious burst of
laughter.

Bart, the chief butt of this ridicule, in the mean while, was moving quietly about the room
in performance of his bidden tasks, without appearing to notice a word that was uttered; and
but for a certain rapid twinkling that might have been seen in his eyes, which, as he deliberately
returned to his seat in the corner, were opened to an unusual extent, one would have supposed
him utterly insensible to all the taunts and jeering laughter of which he had thus publicly
been made the victim.

"Ah! Patterson, here you are then, at last," exclaimed Gale, as the former, with a disturbed
and angry countenance, now came pushing his way into the midst of the company. "We have done
nothing but drink and joke since you went out, scarcely; at all events, we have concluded on
nothing, except to wait and learn the result of your discoveries: so now for your report."

"Ay, ay, Mr. Sheriff," responded Brush. "But stay, take breath, and a glass of this glorious
old Madeira, first. There! now tell us how the land lies abroad to-night."

"It lies but little to my liking," growled the Sheriff, with an oath. The rascally dogs have
altogether stolen the march of us. They have been swarming into town all the evening, as thick
as bees, while not more than a dozen of our flint-and-steel men have yet got on the ground.
It beats Beelzebub!--"

"Our witnesses," quickly interposed Judge Chandler, bowing with a significant smile and cautionary
wink, while he threw a sidelong glance towards Bart, whom the wary eye of the judge had detected
in slightly changing his position, so as to bring his ear more directly towards the speakers--"our
witnesses and quarrelling suitors in court you mean, of course?"

"Why, yes--yes, your honor--if you think that necessary," replied Patterson, following the
direction of the other's glance, and then looking inquiringly at Brush, as if to ask whether
there was any danger to be apprehended from talking before the servant. "Pooh--nonsense!" said
Brush, readily understanding the mute appeal. "Nonsense! You could not make him comprehend
what we are talking about in six weeks, if you should do your prettiest. Why, the fellow has
not two ideas above a jackass!--so talk out."

"Well, then," resumed the sheriff, in a lower tone, "I have satisfied myself that the rebels
are plotting like so many Satans, and are in earnest about carrying their threat into execution.
Now, the question is, what shall be done--yield the point and submit to be turned out of the
Court House to-morrow, as if we were a pack of unruly boys, or what?"

"Yield!" fiercely exclaimed Gale--"not till my pistol bullets have drank the heart's blood
of the d----d rascals, first."

"Ay, Gale," responded Brush, "that would be well enough, but for one small difficulty, which
is, that these demi-savages understand quite as much of that kind of play as we do; and so
long as they outnumber us so greatly, the fun of doing what you would propose might be less
than talking about it. Let us have Chandler's opinion. What course is it best to take, judge?"

"Temporize!" replied the latter, in a low, emphatic tone, and with a look of peculiar significance--"temporize
till----"

"Till we can help ourselves," said Patterson, taking up the sentence where the other left it,
or rather finishing in words what had been expressed by looks.

"That's just my notion," remarked Stearns. "Let them see and be assured that we are for peace,
and want nothing but what is right; all of which may be said truly. And in this manner, if
the thing is well managed, their suspicions can be allayed, and we can get possession of the
Court House as soon as our friends get on, which will be by to-morrow noon--will it not Patterson?"

"Yes, unless this cussed flood has carried away all the roads, as well as bridges," gruffly
replied the sheriff. "Yes, and if these mobbing knaves can be kept quiet then, we shall be
in a situation to ask no favors."

"And grant none," said Sabin, with cool bitterness.

"You don't learn," asked Chandler, with feigned indifference--"you don't learn that the people
have brought any offensive implements with them, do you, Patterson? It might be done covertly,
you know. Has this been seen to, by proper measures,--such as examining the straw in the bottoms
of their sleighs, and the like?"

"Yes, thoroughly," returned the former; "they have brought no arms with them, at any rate.
We are undoubtedly indebted to your honor's skilful management with them at Chester for that."

"Ay, ay," interposed Stearns, "nobody but the judge could have executed that piece of diplomacy
with the fellows. And no one but he can carry out the business successfully now. His honor
must be the one to undertake it."

"Certainly." "The very man." "He must do it." "They would listen to none of us." "The thing
is settled, and he must go" unanimously responded the company.

"I really feel flattered, gentlemen," replied Chandler, bowing and waving his hand towards
the company--"highly flattered by your opinion of my capacity to negotiate in this delicate
affair. But you will understand, in case I accede to your wishes, gentlemen," he continued,
with a look of peculiar meaning--"you will understand that I am to be considered, on all hands,
as utterly opposed to coercive measures--to all--I am understood, I suppose, gentlemen?"

"Yes, yes, judge," returned the others, with knowing winks and laughter, "we will all understand
that you are opposed to the whole move."

Having thus arranged business for the morrow to their satisfaction, these astute personages,
who, like their party generally in America, at that period, seemed to have acted on an entirely
false estimate of the intelligence and spirit of the common people, now rose and retired to
their respective lodgings, inwardly chuckling at their sagacity, in being able to concoct what
they believed would prove a successful scheme of overreaching and putting down their opponents,
and, at the same time, of establishing their own tottering authority on a basis which might
bid defiance to all future attempts to overturn it.

CHAPTER IV.

  "But here, at least, are arms unchained
   And souls that thraldom never stained."

As soon as the company, described in the preceding chapter, had all retired from the room,
Brush, bidding Bart to rake up the fire and go to bed, proceeded to lock all the outer doors
of the house, muttering to himself as he did so, "It can't be as Chandler fears, I think, about
this fellow's going out to blab to-night; but as this will put an end to the possibility of
his doing it, I may as well make all fast, and then there will be no chance for blame for suffering
him to remain in the room."

So saying, and putting the different keys in his pocket, he at once disappeared, on his way
to his own apartment. When the sound of his retiring footsteps had ceased to be heard, Bart,
who had lingered in the room, suddenly changed his sleepy, abject appearance for a prompt,
decisive look and an erect attitude.

"Two ideas above a jackass!--two ideas above a jackass, eh?" he said, and slowly repeated,
as with flashing eyes he nodded significantly in the direction his master had taken. "You may
yet find out, Squire Brush, that my ears aint sich a disput sight longer than yourn, arter all."

With this he blew out the last remaining light, and groped his way to his own humble sleeping-room,
in the low attic story of the back kitchen. Here, however, he manifested no disposition to
go to bed, but sitting down upon the side of his miserable pallet, he remained motionless and
silent for fifteen or twenty minutes, when he began to soliloquize: "Jackass!--sleepy devil!--not
wit enough to see what they are at in six weeks, eh? Barty Burt, you are one of small fishes,
it is true; but, for all that, you needn't be walloped about at this rate, and bamboozled,
and swallowed entirely up by the big ones of this court-and-king party. You know enough to
take care of yourself; yes, and at the same time, you can be doing something towards paying
these gentry for the beautiful compliments you have had from them to-night and at other times.
The fact is, Bart, you are a rebel now--honestly one of them--you feel it in you, and you may
as well let it out. So here goes for their meeting, if it is to be found, if I am hanged for it."

Having, in this whimsical manner, made a sort of manifesto of his principles and intentions,
as if to give them, with himself, a more fixed and definite character, he now rose buttoned
up his jacket, carefully raised the window of his room, let himself down to the roof of a shed
beneath it, and from that descended to the ground, with the easy and rapid motions of a squirrel
engaged in nut-gathering. Here he cast a furtive glance around him, and paused some moments,
in apparent hesitation, respecting the course to be taken to find those of whom he was in quest.
Soon, however, appearing to come to a determination, he struck out into the main street, and,
with a quick step, proceeded on, perhaps a furlong, when he suddenly stopped short, and exclaimed,
"Hold up, Bart. What did that sly judge say about searching in folks' sleighs, for--what was
that word now?--But never mind, it meant guns. And what did the sheriff say about a dozen flint-and-steel
men having come? Put that and that together now, Bart, and see if it don't mean that the only
guns brought into town to-night are packed away in the straw, in the bottom of the sleighs
of the court party understrappers? Let's go and mouse round their stopping-place a little,
Bart. Perhaps you'll get more news to carry to the rebels," he added, turning round and making
towards the tavern at which those in the interests of the loyalists were known generally to put up.

On reaching the tavern, and finding all there still and dark, he proceeded directly to the
barn shed, and commenced a search, which was soon rewarded by finding, in the different sleighs
about the place, twelve muskets, carefully concealed in hay or blankets. With a low chuckle
of delight at his discovery, Bart took as many as he could conveniently carry at one load,
and, going with them into the barn, thrust them one by one into the hay mow, under the girts
and beams, so as effectually to conceal them. He then returned for others, and continued his
employment till the whole were thus disposed of; when he left the place, and resumed his walk
to the northerly end of the village. After pursuing his way through the street, and some distance
down the road beyond the village, he paused against a low, long log-house, standing endwise
to the road. This house was occupied by a middle-aged, single man, known by the name of Tom
Dunning, though often called Ditter Dunning, and sometimes Der Ditter, on account of his frequent
use of these terms as prefixes to his words and sentences, arising from a natural impediment
of speech. He was a hunter by profession, and passed most of his lime in the woods, or round
the Connecticut in catching salmon, which, at that period, were found in the river in considerable
numbers, as far up as Bellows Falls. Though he mingled but little in society, yet he was known
to be well informed respecting all the public movements of the times; and it was also believed
that he had enrolled himself among the far-famed band of Green Mountain Boys, and often joined
them in their operations against the Yorkers, on the other side of the mountains. Very little
however, was known about the man, except that he was a shrewd resolute fellow, extremely eccentric,
and perfectly impenetrable to all but the few in whom he confided.

Bart, from some remark he had overheard in the street, in the early part of the evening, had
been led to conclude that the company he now sought were assembled at this house. And though
he was personally unacquainted with the owner, and knew nothing of his principles, yet he was
resolved to enter and trust to luck to make his introduction, if the company were present,
and, if not, to rely on his own wit to discover whether it were safe to unfold his errand.

As he was approaching the house, Dunning hastily emerged from the door, and, advancing with
a quick step, confronted him in the path with an air which seemed to imply an expectation that
his business would be at once announced. Bart, who was not to be discomposed by any thing of
this kind, manifested no hurry to name his errand, and seemed to prefer that the other should
be the first to break the silence.

"Ditter--seems to me I have seen you somewhere?" at length said Dunning, inquiringly.

"Very likely. I have often been there," replied Bart, with the utmost gravity.

"Ditter--devil you have! And what did you--der--ditter--find there, my foxy young friend?"

"Nothing that I was looking for."

"Der--what was that?"

"The meeting."

"Der--what meeting?"

"The one I'd like to go to, may be."

"You are a bright pup; but--der--don't spit this way; it might be der--ditter--dangerous business
to me; for you must have been eating razors to-night."

"No, I haven't; don't love 'em. But you haven't yet told me where the meeting is?"

"Ditter--look here, my little chap," said Dunning, getting impatient and vexed that he could
not decide whether the other was a knave, simpleton, or neither--"ditter--look here;--der--don't
your folks want you?" Hadn't you better run along now?"

"Reckon I shall, when you tell me where to go and not run against snags."

"Ditter well, der go back the way you come, about ditter as far again as half way; der then,
ditter turn to the ditter right, then to the ditter left, then der--ditter--ditter--ditter--go
along! you'll get there before I can tell you."

"In no sort of hurry; will wait till you get your mouth off; may be it will shoot near the
mark arter all."

"Ditter, dog, my cat, if I--der--don't begin to believe you are considerable of a critter:
and I've half a mind to risk you a piece; so come into the house, and, der--let me take a squint
at your phiz in the light."

Taking no exceptions to the character of the invitation, Bart now followed the other into the
house, and, sitting down on a bench by the fire, began very unconcernedly to whistle, on a
low key, the tune of Yankee Doodle, which was then just beginning to be considered a patriotic
air. Dunning, in the mean time, taking a seat in the opposite corner, commenced his proposed
scrutiny, which he continued, with one eye partly closed, and with a certain dubious expression
of countenance, for some moments, when he observed,

"You are a ditter queer chicken, that's a fact. But I der find now that I know you, as the
ditter divil did his pigs, by sight; I know also the sort of folks you have been living amongst
lately; and der knowing all that, it's reasonable that I should be a snuffing a little for
the ditter smell of brimstone. So now if you are a court party tory, and come here for mischief,
you've got into a place that will ditter prove too hot for you; but if, as I rather think,
you are, or der want to be, something better, and can let us into the shape and fix of matters
and things over there at ditter head-quarters, you may be the chap we would like to see. Ditter
speak out therefore, like a man, and no more of your ditter squizzling."

After a few more evasive remarks, in which he succeeded in drawing out the other more fully,
and causing him the more completely to commit himself, Bart threw aside all bantering, and
proceeded to relate all his discoveries relative to the contemplated movement of the court party.

"Ditter devils and dumplings!" exclaimed the hunter, as, with eyes sparkling with excitement,
he sprang to his feet, as the other finished his recital. "This must be made known directly.
Come--der follow me, and I'll take you to the company you ditter said you wished to see."

So saying, he immediately led the way through a dark entry to a room in the rear of the house,
which the two now entered; when Bart found himself in a company of nearly twenty grave and
stern-looking men, deliberating in a regularly organized meeting.

"Ditter here, Captain Wright," eagerly commenced Dunning, as he entered, addressing the chairman,
a prompt, fine-looking man, and the leading whig of the village; "here is one," he continued,
pointing to Bart, "one who brings ditter news that--"

"Esquire Knowlton, of Townsend, has the floor now," said the chairman, interrupting the speaker,
and directing his attention to a middle-aged man of a gentlemanly, intelligent appearance,
who was standing on one side of the room, having suspended the remarks he was making at the
entrance of Dunning and his companion.

"As I was remarking, Mr. Chairman," now resumed the gentleman who had been thus interrupted
in his speech, "the tory party, acting under various disguises, have been, for several months
past, secretly using every means within their reach to strengthen their unrighteous rule in
this already sadly oppressed section of the country. They aim to bring the people into a state
of bondage and slavery. When no cash is stirring, with which debts can be paid, they purposely
multiply suits, seize property, which they well know can never be redeemed, and take it into
their hands, that they may make the people dependent on them, and subservient to their party
purposes. And just so far as they find themselves strengthened by these and other disguised
movements, so far they betray their intention to curtail all freedom of opinion, and to overawe
us by open acts of oppression. Here, one man has been thrown into prison on the charge of high
treason; when all they proved against him was the remark, that if the king had signed the Quebec
bill, he had broken his coronation oath. There, another, a poor harmless recluse, as I have
ever supposed him, is dragged from his hut in the mountains and imprisoned to await his trial
for an alleged murder, committed long ago, and in another jurisdiction; when his only crime,
with his prosecutors, probably, is his bold denunciations of their tyranny, unless, as some
suspect, even a baser motive actuates them. They even proclaim, that all who dare question
the king's right to tax us without our consent, are guilty of high treason and worthy of death!
For myself, I seek not the suspension of this court at this time, on account of the questionable
jurisdiction of New York merely, but because the court, itself bitterly tory in all its branches,
is sustained by a colony which refuses to adopt the resolves of the Continental Congress, and
thereby continues to force upon us the royal authority, which our brethren of the other colonies
have almost every where put down, and which in our case, Heaven knows, is not the least deserving
the fate it has met elsewhere. And the question, then, now comes home to us, Shall we tolerate
it any longer? The hearts of the people, though their tongues may often be awed into silence--the
hearts of the people are ready to respond their indignant no! And I, for one, am ready to join
in the cry, and stepping into the first rank of the opposers of arbitrary power, breast the
storm in discharging my duty to my country."

"Amen!" was the deep and general response of the company.

"Mr. Dunning will now be heard," said the chairman, motioning to the former to come forward.

"Ditter well, Captain--der--ditter Mr. Moderator, I mean. I, being on the watch against ditter
interlopers, you know, have just picked up an odd coon, here, who ditter seems to have ears
in one place and tongue in another; and his story is a ditter loud one. But let him tell it
in his own way. So now, Barty Burt," he continued, going up to the other, who stood by the
fire, kicking the fore-stick with his usual air of indifference; "come forward, and tell the
meeting all you have der seen and heard, in the ditter camp of the Philistines."

Bart, then, mostly in the way of answers to a series of rapid questions, put by the chairman,
who seemed to know him, and understand the best way of drawing him out,--Bart then related
his discoveries to his astonished and indignant auditors, giving such imitations of the manner
of each of the company, whose words he was repeating, as not only showed their meaning in its
full force, but at once convinced all present of the truth of his story.

No sooner had Bart closed, than a half dozen of the company sprang to their feet, in their
eagerness to express their indignation and abhorrence of the bloody plot, which their opponents
under the garb of peace and fair promises, had, it was now evident, been hatching against them.

"Order, gentlemen!" cried the chairman: "I don't wonder you all want to denounce the detestable
and cowardly conduct of the tyrants. But one only can be heard at a time, and Mr. French, I
rather think, was fairly up first, and he will therefore proceed."

While all others, on hearing this remark of the chairman, resumed their seats, the person thus
named, as privileged to speak first, remained standing. He was a young man, of about twenty-two,
of a ready, animated appearance, while every look and motion of his ardent countenance and
restless muscles proclaimed him to be of the most sanguine temperament and enthusiastic feelings.
An almost unnatural excitement was sparkling in his kindling eyes, and a sort of wild, fitful,
sad, and prophetic air characterized his whole appearance as he began.

"It has come at last, then! I knew it was coming. I have felt it for months; waking and sleeping,
I have felt it. In my dreams I have seen blood in the skies, and heard sounds of battle in
the air and earth. Dreams of themselves, I know, are generally without sign or significance;
but when the spirit of a dream remains on the mind through the waking hours, as it has on mine,
I know it has a meaning. Something has been hurrying me to be ready for the great event. I
could not help coming here to-night. I cannot help being here to-morrow. The event and the
time are at hand! I see it now--resistance, and battle, and blood! Let it come! the victims
are ready; and their blood, poured out on the wood on the altar of liberty, will bring down
fire from heaven to consume the oppressors!"

There was a short silence among the company, who seemed to pause, in surprise and awe at the
strange words and manner of the young man, which evidently made an impression on his hearers
at the time, and which were afterwards remembered, and often repeated, at the fireside, in
recounting his untimely fate."

"Mr. Fletcher," at length observed the chairman, breaking the silence--"Mr. Fletcher, of Newfane,
is next entitled to speak, I believe."

"I rose, Mr. Chairnan," said the latter, a fine specimen of the hardy, resolute, and intelligent
yeoman of the times--"I rose but to ask whether the news just received can be relied on: can
it be, that Judge Chandler, after his pledge to us at Chester, would be guilty of conduct reflecting
so deeply on his character as a man?"

"I am not wholly unprepared to believe the story myself," replied the chairman; "our young
friend here may have his peculiarities; but I consider him a thousand times more honest and
honorable, than some of those whose sly hints and treacherous conduct he has so well described."

"Ditter, look here, Mr. Moderator," interposed Dunning. "I was once, ditter travelling, in
the Bay State, with a friend, when we came across a meeting-house with eight sides, and my
friend asked me what order of architecture I called it. Ditter well, I was fairly treed, and
couldn't tell. But I should be able to tell now. I should ditter call it the Chandler order."

A desultory but animated debate now arose. Various methods of accomplishing what appeared to
be the settled determination of all--that of preventing the sitting of the court--were suggested.
Some proposed to dismantle or tear down the Court House; others were for arming the people,
seizing the building, and bidding open defiance to their opponents. At this stage of the deliberations,
Colonel Carpenter, whose character had secured him great influence, rose, and requested to
be heard.

"From the gathering signs of the times," said he, "we have good reason to believe that the
smouldering fires of liberty will soon burst forth into open revolution throughout these oppressed
and insulted colonies. Our movements here may lead to the opening scene of the great drama;
and we must give our foes no advantages by our imprudence. If we are the first to appear in
arms, it may weaken our cause, while it strengthens theirs. Let them be the first to do this--let
us place them in the wrong, and then, if they have recourse to violence and bloodshed, we will
act; and no fear but the people will find means to arm themselves. Let us, therefore, go into
the Court House to-morrow, in a body, but without a single offensive implement, and resist
peacefully, but firmly; and then, if they dare make a martyr, his blood will do more for our
cause than would now a regiment of rifles."

Although this prudent and far-sighted proposal was for a while opposed, by the more ardent
and unthinking part of the company, yet it was at length adopted by the whole; and having made
arrangements to carry it into effect, the meeting broke up, and all retired to their respective
lodgings.

CHAPTER V.

  "Thou ever strong upon the strongest side"

Although many were the anxious consultations, and deep plottings, among the belligerent parties
within doors, during the fore part of the memorable 13th of March, yet it was not till the
afternoon of that day had considerably advanced, that any indications of the events which followed
became observable in the streets of Westminster. About this time, one of the doors of Crean
Brush's guest-filled mansion suddenly flew open, and the crouched and cringing form of our
humble friend Barty Burt, hotly pursued by his recent employer with uplifted cane, was seen
coming down the steps of the entrance, in flying leaps, to the ground.

"There, you infernal booby! please consider this caning and kicking as a farewell to my house
and employ forever!" exclaimed the enraged master, standing in the door-way, and looking down
with ineffable scorn upon the prostrate person of the ejected Bart, as he lay sprawled out
upon the spot where he landed, without manifesting any disposition to rise.

"I should like to know what I've done criminal, squire?" responded the latter, looking back
over his shoulder at the other, with a doleful grimace.

"What have you done?" sharply retorted Brush. "Why, you impertinent puppy, you have done every
thing wrong, and nothing right, ever since you got your lubberly carcass out of bed, at the
fine time of eight o'clock this morning! and now, to crown all, in clearing off the table,
you must go, with your load of meats and half-filled gravy dishes, through the parlor, where
you had no business to go, and there, like a blundering jackass, as you are, you must fall
down and ruin the best carpet in the house! I've had quite enough of you, sir: so up with you
there and clear out, you vagabond!"

"Well, I'spose I know what you want," muttered Bart, by way of reply to this tirade--"you want
to accuse, and drive me away, so you won't have to pay me the two crowns you owe me for work,
and other things."

"I don't owe you half that sum, you lying lout," returned Brush, fiercely. "But to get rid
of such a pest, and prevent your going round town with that lie in your mouth, I'll give you
all you ask; and there they are!" he continued, pulling out and disdainfully tossing the coins
down at the other's feet. "Your dirty rags, if you have any in the house, shall be thrown out
to you; and then, if you aint off, I'll set the dogs on ye."

With this, and an expressive slam of the door behind him, the secretary returned into the house;
and in a few moments, the sash of a garret window was thrown up, and a pair of shoes, a pair
of old summer pantaloons, a spare coarse shirt, and pair of stockings, were successively flung
down into the yard, near where the owner was still lying, by the hand of a grinning and blushing
servant maid, while her dainty-fingered master stood by, directing the operation,

"Well, Bart," now soon began to mutter this singular being, in his usual manner of addressing
himself as a second person, when alone--"well, Bart, your plan of getting driv away has worked
to a shaving. You've got your pay, too, jest in the way you calculated would fetch it; yes,
all your honest pay, and one crown more; but you charged that, you know, when you told him
two crowns, as damage for the kick and cane lick you got. So that's settled. And as to the
other accounts against him, and the rest of 'em there, you'll be in a way to square all, fore
long, guess; for you will be your own rebel, now, Bart, you know."

While thus communing with himself, he had slowly, and with many winces of affected pain, gathered
up his limbs, risen on to his feet, pocketed his two crowns, and collected and tied up his
clothes. And he was now, with a grieved look, as if sorrowing for the loss of his home, looking
back to the house, where several curious, half-laughing, half-pitying countenances were seen
peering through the windows to witness his departure. He then looked hesitatingly abroad, one
way and then the other, with the sad and despairing air of one who feels there is no place
in the wide world where he can find a friendly shelter. After this, with a wince and groan
at every step, he slowly hobbled off up the street, losing his lameness, and converting his
groans into snickers of low, exulting laughter, as soon as he was out of eye-shot of the company
he had left behind him.

"Kinder 'pears to me, Bart," he at length said, resuming his soliloquy, as he glanced keenly
at the tavern, which was the scene of his last night's exploit, and which he was now passing--"'pears
to me, there's a good many heads rather close together in spots, round that tory nest over
yonder. They act as if they were in a sort of stew about something. I wonder if they lost their
guns last night, or anything, that puts them in such a pucker," he continued with a chuckle.
"But suppose, Bart, as going this way is only a sham, suppose we now haul up here, and edge
over there among 'em a little, to learn what they are up to, before you go to join the company
at the Court House."

On reaching the yard of the tavern, Bart found that the company, numbering perhaps twenty in
all, had broken from the separate groups in which they had been conversing, and had now gathered
round one man, who, having just come out of the tavern, appeared to be communicating to the
crowd something that obviously produced considerable sensation. This person was a man of the
ordinary size, of fair complexion, light eyes, and an unsettled and vacillating countenance,
rendered the more strikingly so, perhaps, by the quick, eager, and restless motions and manner
by which his whole appearance was characterized. Bart soon contrived to work his way into this
circle, till he gained a position from which he could hear what was said.

"You may rely on what I have told you," said the speaker, as Bart came within hearing; "for
I have just had it from the sheriff and lawyer Stearns. The rebels have been in possession
of the Court House about an hour, posted sentinels at all the doors, and openly declare, that
the judges and officers shall never enter to hold another court. Nobody dreamed of their daring
on such a bold step, or we should have been before them in taking possession of the house,
even with the force we had on the ground. But, thinking it best to go strong-handed, the judges
concluded they would not go in to open the court till enough of friends should arrive to put
down all opposition at a blow. The rebels think now, doubtless, that they have got an advantage
which they will be able to maintain. But they will find themselves a little mistaken, I fancy;
for Patterson says he has now got them in just the spot he wanted. This act both he and Stearns
decide to be overt treason, which will justify him in taking the course he intends, unless
they yield and scatter, on the first summons. But as they won't do that, and our forces will
shortly be here, you can all guess what we shall now soon see follow," he added, with a significant
wink.

"Then why not be getting out our guns at once?" asked one of the company.

"No," resumed the speaker; "the plan is to leave that till the last thing before we march upon
them, lest the rebels should take alarm and go and arm themselves, and we thus thwart our own
intention of taking them by surprise. You, however, can be kinder carelessly looking up clubs
for such as may have no arms, and a few axes and crowbars for breaking into the Court House,
if that should be necessary. But, as I said, let the guns remain hid in the sleighs till you
have orders to take them out. For it is not exactly settled yet whether we shall march upon
them as soon as our reenforcements arrive, and besiege them in the house, or coax them out,
and so get possession ourselves. But, at any rate, you will have work on hand soon; and if
we don't see fun before to-morrow morning, my name aint David Redding. But come, let's all
adjourn to the bar-room, and take a drop to warm us up a little."

Leaving Redding to his despicable task of endeavoring, in compliance with the directions of
those whose base tool he was, to inflame the company he had collected, and work up their feelings
to such a pitch of enmity and recklessness as should prepare them to imbrue their hands in
the blood of their neighbors and countrymen, we will now proceed to note the conduct of more
important personages in the events of the day.

While the scene above described was transpiring, Patterson, Gale, Stearns, and one or two other
tory leaders, who had been consulting at this tavern, and making their arrangements for active
movements, left the house, and, with hasty steps, took their way to the mansion of the haughty
secretary, which, by his special invitation, at this crisis, was made the permanent quarters
of the judges and principal officers of the court, as well as of his numerous guests.

"Upon the whole, perhaps you are right, Stearns," said Patterson, as they were about to enter
the house. "We will start off Chandler to the Court House to make one of his smooth speeches,
and play Sir Plausible with the rebel rascals, as agreed on last night, and though he should
have done it before, yet he may, even now, succeed in flattering them to quit the house long
enough for us to get possession; if not, we will take the other course."

In a few moments after these worthies had disappeared within the house, the door was again
opened, and Chief Justice Chandler, the man to whose singularly compounded character, made
up of timidity, selfishness, vanity, thirst of power, kindness, and duplicity, or rather the
conduct that flowed from it, may be mainly attributed the bloody tragedy that ensued, now made
his appearance in the street. He wore a powdered wig, according to the fashion of the times
among men of his official station, and his whole toilet had evidently been made with much attention.
Carelessly flirting a light cane in his hand, and assuming an air of easy unconcern, he leisurely
took his way along the street, towards the Court House, bowing low, and blandly smiling to
every one he met, and often even crossing to the opposite side of the street to exchange salutations
with the passer-by, to each of whom, whatever his party or station, he was sure to say something
complimentary, and aimed with no little sagacity to reach the peculiar feelings and interests
of the person addressed.

"This is Mr. French, I believe," he said, turning out of his course to speak to the young man
introduced in the last chapter, who, with the same restless, anxious look he then wore, was
unobservantly hurrying by the other, on his way to the Court House.

"Yes, yes, sir," replied French, slightly checking his speed, and looking back, with a half-surprised,
half-vacant expression.

"Ay, I was sure I knew you," rejoined the judge. "How are the times with you, Mr. French? You
will pardon my freedom, sir, but the great interest I take in the success of our enterprising
and intelligent young men like yourself--But no matter now. I see you are in haste. I will
not detain you, sir. A very good day to you, Mr. French."

"Well, upon my word, now, here is my friend Colonel Carpenter!" he again exclaimed, as, turning
from the person he had just saluted with such poor success, his quick and wary eye caught sight
of the gentleman thus addressed coming up behind him. "Most happy to fall in with you, colonel,"
he continued, grasping and warmly shaking the hand of the other. "How are your family, sir?
Shall I confess it, colonel? I have really sometimes greatly envied you."

"Why so, sir?" asked Carpenter, with a little coolness.

"Envied you your well-deserved appellation--that of Friend of the People, as they call you,"
replied the judge.

"The people need a friend at this crisis, I think, sir," responded the unbought yeoman, with
cold dignity.

"If there is one title that I should covet above all others," resumed the judge, without appearing
to notice the drift of the other's remark, "it would be the one I have named. What can be a
more truly honorable distinction? I have often regretted being so trammelled by my station
on the bench, as to prevent me from acting as I would otherwise like to do. But a judge, you
know, colonel, in party times, must not act openly on any particular side."

"He had better do that, however, than act secretly on all sides," returned the other, with
biting significance.

"O, doubtless, doubtless, sir," rejoined the judge, with a forced laugh, but with the air of
one perfectly unsuspicious of any intended personalities. "Yes, indeed. But, ah!" he continued,
slightly motioning towards the Court House, against which they had now arrived. "What have
we here? A public meeting?"

"Quite possible. At all events I think of going in myself," said Carpenter, quietly turning
from the other into the Court House yard, but soon pausing a little, though without looking
round, to hear the remarks which the other seemed intent on making.

"Indeed! Why, I had not heard of it, else I should have been pleased to have dropped in. I
came out, be sure, only for a little exercise, but----"

Here he paused, in expectation that the other would speak; but finding himself disappointed,
and left alone in the street, he resumed his walk, while his now unguarded countenance very
plainly showed the disquiet he felt at the rebuffs he had received in his attempts to conciliate
Colonel Carpenter, and obtain from him an invitation to go into the meeting, which, in reality,
it was his only object in coming out to attend.

While digesting his mortification, and occupied in conjecturing how he could have become an
object of suspicion among the opponents of the court party, as every thing now seemed to indicate,
his attention was again arrested by the sounds of approaching footsteps; and, looking up, his
eyes encountered the sarcastic countenance of Tom Dunning, who, coming from an opposite direction,
was also on his way to join the company at the Court House.

"Ah, Mr. Dunning!" exclaimed the judge, starting from his reverie and downcast attitude, while
his face instantly brightened into smiles summoned for the occasion; "right glad to meet you,
sir. I have been thinking I must engage some such expert and lucky sportsman, as they say you
are, to catch and send me up a fresh salmon, occasionally. I suppose your never-failing spear
will be put in requisition again, when the spring opens; will it not?"

"Der--yes, your worship, unless I turn my attention to the catching--ditter--eels, or other
slippery varments," returned the hunter, with a sly, significant twinkling of his eyes, as
he brushed by the rebuked cajoler, and pushed on without waiting for a reply.

The judge did not pursue his walk much farther; but now, soon facing about, began, with a quickened
step and a look of increasing uneasiness, to retrace his way to his quarters.

While those little incidents were occurring in the streets, about one hundred sturdy and determined
men had collected within the walls of the Court House. As the construction of this building
was somewhat peculiar, for one designed for such purposes, it may be necessary, for a clear
understanding of the descriptions which follow, to say a few words respecting its interior
arrangements. The court-room was in the upper story, which was all occupied as such, except
the east and south corners, that had been partitioned off for sleeping apartments. In the lower
story, there was a wide passage running through the middle of the building, with doors at both
ends; while the stairs leading up into the court room faced the principal entrance, on the
north-east side of the house. After passing by the stairs, there was a small passage leading
from the large one, at right angles, and running back between prison-rooms, whose doors opened
into it. The part of this lower story, on the opposite side of the main passage, consisted
also of two rooms, with doors opening into it, and an entry, or short passage, leading out
into the street. One of these rooms was used as a common, or bar-room, and the other as a sort
of parlor, being both occupied by the jailer and his family.

Although there had been, for many weeks, a growing disposition among the party here assembled
to prevent the session of a court avowedly acting under royal authority, and spurning all the
recommendations of Congress, yet there had been no settled intention among them to resort to
any other than the peaceful measures of petition and remonstrance, which they believed would
be sufficient to effect the desired result. It had been decided, therefore, that the court
should be permitted to come together; when such representations and arguments were to be laid
before them, as could not fail, it was supposed, to convince any reasonable men of the wisdom
of listening to the voice of the people. But when, or, the preceding evening, it was discovered,
in the way before related, and from other sources, that the people had been duped by the duplicity
of Chandler, and that it was the secret purpose of the court, in defiance of all pledges to
the contrary, to hold a full session, under the protection of an armed force, the hitherto
modest and quiet spirit of patriotism was at once aroused among this resolute little band of
revolutionists, and they came to the bold determination, as we have before seen, of seizing
the Court House in advance of their opponents, and holding it till their remonstrances should
be heard and heeded.

This object, so far as respected the possession of the building, being now obtained, the company
proceeded to organize and make arrangements for maintaining their advantage through the night.
Their possession, however, was not destined to remain long undisputed. In a short time after
they had begun to act, their new recruit, Barty Burt, who could not forego his desire of remaining
among the tories (where we left him acting the unsuspected spy on their movements) till they
should look for their guns, that he might have the pleasure of witnessing their discomfiture
on discovering their loss, now arrived with news, that the latter, as soon as they made the
discovery that their arms had been abstracted, were thrown into the greatest commotion; and
that under the direction of Patterson and Gale, both foaming with rage, they had hastily collected
all the offensive implements they could find, with the avowed determination of making an immediate
assault on their opponents at the Court House. But notwithstanding this startling intelligence,
no one manifested the least disposition of quitting his post. And although there was not a
weapon of defence, beyond a cane, in the whole company, yet they seemed none the less inclined
to maintain their position in consequence of the threatening aspect which the affair was beginning
to assume; but resolving, by acclamation, to keep possession of the house till compelled by
force of arms to relinquish it, they placed a few strong and resolute men as guards at every
door, and quietly awaited the result. And they were not kept long in suspense. In a short time,
Patterson and his posse, armed with several old muskets, swords, pistols, and clubs, made their
appearance, and, with many hostile manifestations, came rushing up within a few yards of the
door. Commanding a halt, the sheriff then, in a loud and arrogant tone, summoned the company
within to come forth and disperse. No voice, however, was heard to respond to the summons.
Gale, the clerk, then proceeded, upon the intimation of the former, to read the king's proclamation
to the outward walls of the house, or the supposed listeners within, with great form and solemnity.

"Ditter--dickins!" exclaimed Tom Dunning, after listening a moment to the reading of the riot
act, or proclamation, as it was usually called, as, with several others, he stood just within
the entrance. "Now I wonder if they expect to rout a body of Green Mountain Boys with that
sort of--ditter--ammunition?"

"There!" fiercely cried Patterson, as the reader concluded his task. "There, you d----d rascals,
now disperse, or, by Heaven, I will blow a lane through ye!"

"Only--ditter--hear that!" again remarked the hunter, contemptuously, at the menace and profanity
of the haughty officer. "Natural enough, though, mayhap, for a bag of wind to blow, if it does
any thing. He is rather smart at--der--swearing, too, I think. But even at that, I guess he
would have to haul in his horns a little, if old Ethan Allen was here, as I wish he was, to
let off a few blasts of his--ditter--damnations at him."

Captain Wright, after a brief consultation with the other leaders, now coming down from the
court-room, opened the door, (Dunning and another strong-armed man having hold of it to guard
against a rush,) and addressed the besiegers.

"Why is all this, gentlemen?" he said, in a respectful, but firm manner. "Are you come here
for war? We are here for no such purpose, ourselves. We came with none other than peaceful
intentions. And so long as we can say that, and say, also, above all, that we have come together
with the approbation of the chief judge of your court, who has promised us a fair hearing of
our grievances; and so long as, in direct violation of that judge's pledge to us, you appear
here in arms, to intimidate us, let me assure you, we shall not disperse under your threats.
We, however, will permit you to come in, if you will lay aside your arms; or we will hold a
parley with you as you are."

"D----n your parley!" exclaimed Gale, furiously. "D----n the parley with such d----d rascals
as you are! I will hold no parley with such d----d rascals, but by this!" he added, drawing
a pistol, and brandishing it towards his opponents.

"Ay! ay!" cried Redding, who, next to the sheriff and clerk, appeared to be the most violent
and officious among the assailants: "talk about being here without arms, and for peace, do
ye? when you have stolen a dozen of our guns, and have now got them in there among you. Pretty
fellows, to talk about parley? We will give you a parley that will send you all to hell before
morning!"

Wright here began a denial of the charge made by the last speaker; when he was interrupted
by Dunning, who, jogging him said, in an undertone,--

"Let 'em-der--believe it. They are such--ditter--cowards, that the idea of a dozen guns among
us will mike 'em more mannerly than all the preaching you could--ditter--do in a month."

Concluding to profit by this suggestion of the sagacious hunter Wright now retired within doors,
followed by the hisses, curses and all manner of abusive epithets, of the assailants.

The besiegers, now finding that the king's proclamation, on whose potency for quelling the
risings of the rebellious colonists the tory authorities, at the commencement of the revolution,
seemed to have greatly counted, did not annihilate their opponents, and, not seeing fit to
attempt to carry their threats into execution at present, they soon drew off a short distance,
and apparently held a consultation. While they were thus occupied, a small deputation was sent
out to them from the Court House, with another offer to hold a conference. But their proposals
being received with fresh insults and abuse, they returned to the house, while Patterson and
his forces, evidently fearing to venture an attack, with their present strength, on the other
party, whom they suspected to be armed with the lost guns, now moved off to head-quarters,
to report progress, and wait for the expected reenforcement, to hasten whose arrival, expresses
had been despatched several hours before.

A short time after the disappearance of Patterson's band. Judge Chandler unexpectedly came
up to the Court House, wholly unattended, and being readily admitted, he at once ascended into
the court-room, and entered the somewhat surprised, but unmoved assembly, bowing low to individuals
on the right and left, as he passed on to an unoffered seat, with the gratified air of one,
who, after many detentions, has the satisfaction of getting at length into the company of his
friends.

After a rather embarrassing pause, the judge rose, and made a short speech, which left his
hearers but little the wiser respecting his real wishes and intentions, though he had much
to say about his solicitude for the welfare of the people, and his anxiety that they should
do nothing to injure their cause. After he was seated, Wright, Carpenter, and Knowlton, each
in turn, addressed him, stating, in general terms, the views and wishes of their party, and
reminding him of his pledge, that no arms should be brought by the officers of the court, the
recent violation of which they hoped he would be able to explain.

Upon this, the former rejoined, declaring with great assurance, and not a little to the surprise
of many in the room, that the arms complained of had been brought without his knowledge and
against his express wishes; and he concluded by assuring his friends, as he said he was proud
to believe he might safely call them, that he would go and immediately secure the arms in question;
so that the company might now retire, in full confidence that their petitions would obtain
a fair hearing, when the court came together the next morning. The speaker then resumed his
seat, and glanced persuasively around him for some tokens of assent or approbation. But the
men, whom he had thus undertaken to wheedle, had been taught by experience to heed the caution
so well recommended by the tuneful Burns,--

  "Beware the tongue that's smoothly hung,"--

and a chilling silence was the only response that greeted him.

"You hear his honor's remarks," observed the chairman, at length breaking the ominous silence.
"Have you any propositions to make before the judge retires?"

Another long interval of deep silence ensued; when Tom Dunning's tall, sinewy form, and sharp,
bronzed features, screwed up with an expression of sly mischief, was seen rising from a back
seat in the room.

"Seeing no one else," he said, "seems--ditter--disposed to accept your invitation, Mr. Moderator,
I don't--ditter--know but I will make a small proposition on the occasion. Now, as I take it,
we are to remain here to-night; and as we have now learned that the judge and the people here
are the--ditter--best of friends, I would just move, Mr. Moderator, that his honor be--der--ditter--invited
to take up lodgings with us in the Court House to-night, so that, if the enemy comes," he added,
imitating the manner of the judge, as described by Bart, "he can assist us to--ditter--'temporize--temporize--till'--"

Here the hunter bobbed down into his seat, while explosive bursts of laughter rose from several
parts of the room, and a low, half-smothered titter ran through the whole assembly, at this
sly, but cutting allusion to the part last night taken by the double-dealing judge, who now
sat before them, looking, for the moment, like a suddenly detected criminal. He, however, while
the chairman was calling to order, recovered his command of countenance, and, by the time the
tumult had subsided into the less noisy expressions of mirth, he was smiling as gayly as the
rest, and affecting to consider the remarks of the stammering humorist as merely a pleasant joke.

"There is no cheating our friend Dunning out of his joke. I perceive," he said, rising and
taking up his hat; "and, indeed, I don't know that I can blame a hardy woodsman for laughing
at the idea of one of our in-door and tender professional men, like myself, sleeping on floors
and benches. I am afraid we deserve it for our effeminacy. Yes, yes, a good joke, truly! and
a good laughter-moving joke is an excellent thing to go to bed upon, they say," he added, as
with a merry, gleeful look, he bowed himself out of the assembly.

No further comments were offered by any of the company upon the communications of this official
double-dealer, after his departure; for all seemed to think that the single shot of Dunning
had rendered all further comments on his speech, and his motives in coming there to make it,
entirely superfluous. And they therefore proceeded, as if nothing but an ordinary interruption
had occurred, to the business on which they were engaged when the judge came in--that of passing
some fresh resolves expressive of their determination to hold the Court House in defiance of
the threats of their opponents, and of their now settled purpose of no longer submitting, on
any conditions, to the continuance of a court which had proved itself so corrupt and treacherous.
After this, and making arrangements for the posting and relieving of guards at the doors for
the night, a part of the company left the house to seek lodgings elsewhere, as the usual hour
of rest had now arrived.

When the nonplused and disconcerted Chandler left the Court House, he rapidly took his way
back to his quarters, from which he had been started out by Patterson and Gale, to see if he
might not be able to accomplish by fair words what they had failed to effect by foul. Although
he had put the best possible face upon the mortifying occurrence he had just been compelled
to meet, and had made, as he believed, a handsome exit from the company, yet he felt keenly
conscious that he had not only utterly failed in the object of his visit, but that much of
his late base conduct was known. He perceived this in the allusions of Dunning, the pith of
which he had affected not to understand. He had seen it, he had felt it, in the significant
and knowing glances that had been exchanged on every side around him, and especially in the
bitter derisive laugh that had assailed his tingling ears. He had also been taught a new lesson
in the interview! He had seen, in the firm manner and determined looks of those he had been
confronting--he had seen that which told him of a spirit at work among the people, that the
loyal party, with all their boasted strength, might not long be able to quell. He began now,
with the instinctive sagacity of the true office-seeker, to perceive the possibility, perhaps
probability, that the power of dispensing office and patronage was about to change hands, and
he inwardly trembled for his own safety. He found himself, in short, in one of those straits,
to which men of his character are not unfrequently reduced--that of being wholly at a loss
to decide which side was most likely to become the strongest. Could he have foreseen and decided
this, his mind would have been comparatively at ease; for he could have then trimmed his sails,
so as to steer clear of the political breakers which he knew were somewhere ahead. Some course,
however, he must decide upon; and after lamenting his inability to pierce the future, so far
as to know which party was destined to prevail, and thus secure the important advantages that
might be derived from shaping his present course accordingly, he at length resolved to keep
aloof, at present, from both parties, believing he had so adroitly managed thus far, that whichever
side might triumph, he could put in a specious claim of having acted with it, in reality, from
the first.

And having now made up his mind to this course, he avoided meeting the tory leaders again;
and, seeking out a safe messenger, and sending him to tell them, that "he had left the company
at the Court House as he found it," and that "a forgotten business engagement had compelled
him to be absent from their councils for a few hours," he took his way to a distant part of
the village, where he called on an acquaintance of neutral politics. And here becoming much
engaged in conversation, and feigning to have forgotten the hour of the night, he was at last
prevailed on to accept, as he did with great seeming reluctance, the invitation of his host
to tarry till morning.

After Patterson and his minions retreated from the Court House, they returned to the tory tavern,
and there remained several hours, alternately cursing their opponents for rebellious obstinacy
in not yielding to their commands and menaces, and their expected friends for their tardiness
in reaching the place. And affairs remaining in this situation till a late hour in the evening,
they were on the point of giving up all thoughts of renewing the attack that night, when the
long and anxiously looked for reenforcement, consisting of thirty or forty armed men, came
hurrying on to the ground. The sinking spirits and waning courage of the blustering sheriff
and his confederates now instantly revived; and, exulting that they now had the power to glut
their vengeance, they resolved on making an immediate assault. And after fortifying their courage
with liberal potations of brandy, the whole party, now swelled, not only by the freshly arrived
forces, but by Brush, Peters, Stearns, and many others, who had declined joining in the first
sally, to nearly one hundred men, eagerly set forward to the scene of action.

The other party, in the mean time, though still maintaining a watchful guard at the doors of
the Court House, had yet been so long exempted from an attack of their foes, that they were
now in but little expectation of being any further molested till the next morning. And some
were lying stretched upon the benches in the court-room, asleep; some, with their great-coats
under their heads, were reposing on the floors of the different passages of the house; while
others were sitting round the fires, engaged in smoking and conversation.

Among those taking their turns as sentries, at this juncture, were Woodburn and Bart, who,
with each a stout cane or cudgel in his hand, were now stationed at the principal entrance.

"They are coming!" cried Bart, who, having gone out into the street to ascertain what might
be the noise which they had heard at a distance, now came running up, with an excited air to
his companion; "they are upon us again, with twice as many men as before, and plenty of guns!"

"In with the news!" said Woodburn, as the appearance of the hostile party wheeling up towards
the Court House the next instant confirmed the other's statement--"in with the news, and tell
them to man the doors, or in two minutes we shall be routed."

Instantly springing into the door, which he unfortunately left open, Bart made the announcement
to French, who was restlessly moving about in the passage, and who repeated the same in a voice
which started all, both above and below to their feet.

"They are coming for our blood!" he added, in a tone of strange, wild glee. "Ay, there they
come! I see them levelling their guns in the yard! Now for the victims! Let us die like----"

The report of two or three muskets, and the whistling of bullets through the passage just over
his head, cut short the speaker. A moment of breathless silence ensued; when the harsh, ruffian
voice of Patterson was heard from without,--

"Damn ye, why don't you fire?"

A general discharge of the fire-arms of the assailants, flashing fiercely on the surrounding
darkness, and sending them deadly missiles through the passage, windows, and sides of the house,
in every direction, instantly followed the ferocious order. And, in the expiring light, the
fated French was seen to leap into the air; and then, spinning giddily round and round an instant,
fall, with a low, short screech, prostrate on the floor; while mingled groans, rising from
a half dozen others along the passage, told also the fearful effect of the murderous volley.

With the discharge of their arms, the assailing force, guided by their torch-bearers, made
a rush for the Court House. As they approached the door, Woodburn, who had kept his post, unhurt,
on one side of the steps, sprang forward to dispute their passage, and, after knocking up the
swords and bayonets that were aimed at his breast, laid about him so lustily with his cudgel,
that the whole party were, for some moments, kept at bay. At length, however, Peters, who was
near the rear of the hostile column, perceiving it was his hated opponent who was disputing
the pass so resolutely, stealthily crept round those in front, and coming up partly behind
his intended victim, with a protruded sabre, aimed a deadly lunge at his body, exultingly exclaiming
with the supposed fatal thrust,--

"There! d----d rebel, take that!"

"And you that!" cried the other, who, having, from a lucky turn in his body at the instant,
received only a flesh-wound on the inner side of his arm, now, with an upward sweep of his
cudgel, knocked the sword of the detestable assassin twenty feet into the air--"and you that!
ay, and that!" he added, as, with a quickly repeated blow over the head, he sent his foe reeling
to the earth.

But the weapon of the intrepid young man being now caught, and his body fiercely grappled by
four or five of his exasperated foes, he was soon disarmed, and, in spite of his desperate
struggles, borne into the court-house with the crowd, who now rushed furiously along the passages,
wounding with their swords, and beating down with their guns and clubs, without distinction
or mercy, all whom they met in their way.

"Guard the doors instantly!" shouted Patterson, who perceived that numbers of the vanquished
party were retreating through the different doors; "don't let another of the d----d rascals
escape! And, hallo there, jailer! bring on the keys of the prison-rooms; we will cage the whole
lot, dead or alive, and let 'em be enjoying a few of the fruits of their rebellion now, and
the blessed anticipations of being hung for high treason hereafter."

The obsequious jailer soon appeared with the required keys and the doors of both prison-rooms
were speedily unlocked and thrown open by the directions of the sheriff.

"Now, tumble them in, boys!" resumed the sheriff, with look and tone of savage exultation.

Eager to obey, the supple tools of arbitrary power now commenced driving all those of their
prisoners who had not been too much disabled by their wounds to stand, together into the prison-rooms.
They then seized hold of the wounded, who lay weltering in their blood in different parts of
the floor of the long passage, and began dragging them along by their limbs to the same destination.

"Monster!" exclaimed Woodburn, looking back from the felon's cell which he was about to enter,
and addressing Redding, who stood mimicking, with fiendish glee, the groans and contortions
of French, as he lay gasping and writhing in mortal agony on the spot where he fell, just beyond
the short passage dividing the prison-rooms--"monster," he repeated, "would you insult the dying?"

"Yes, d--n you!" savagely interposed Gale, stepping forward; "he has got just what he deserved;
and I wish there were forty more of you in the same predicament. Drag him along in there with
the rest of 'em, Redding!"

"Ay, ay," responded Patterson, "in with him! And I can tell the rest of them, they had better
be saving their pity for themselves, for they will all be in hell before to-morrow night!"

It is needless to say that this brutal order was promptly obeyed. And when the dying and insensible
victim, pierced through head and body, and all the wounded, had been drawn in and thrown promiscuously
together, on the cold, damp floors of the prison-rooms, the keys were turned upon them; and
their remorseless butchers, making not the least provision for the sufferers, by way of medical
aid or otherwise, returned, after posting a strong guard at the doors, to the tavern or the
house of Brush, to celebrate their victory in a drunken carousal.

CHAPTER VI.

  "The brand is on their brows,
     A dark and guilty spot;
   'Tis ne'er to be erased,
     'Tis ne'er to be forgot."

Whatever may be the result of the present public movement for the abolition of capital punishment,
and however far future experiments may go towards establishing the expediency and safety of
such a change in criminal jurisprudence, the history of every nation and people will show,
we believe, the remarkable fact, that ever since Cain stood before his Maker with his hands
reeking with the blood of his murdered brother, and his heart so deeply smitten with the consciousness
of having justly forfeited his own life by taking the life of another, that he could not divest
himself of the belief that all men would seek to slay him, no one principle has been found
to be more deeply implanted in the human breast than the desire to see the wilful shedding
of blood atoned for by the blood of the perpetrator. So strong, so active, and so impelling,
indeed, seems this principle, that no sooner goes forth the dread tale of homicide, than all
community rise up, as one man, instinctively impressed with the duty of hunting down the guilty
and bringing them to justice; while the guilty themselves seem no less instinctively impressed
with the abiding consciousness that the doom, which heaven and earth has decreed to their crimes,
must inevitably overtake them.

Deep and fearful was the excitement, in the hitherto quiet and peaceful village of Westminster,
as from mouth to mouth, and house to house, spread the startling intelligence, that a meeting
of unarmed citizens, assembled at the Court House, had been assailed, and numbers shot down
in cold blood by the minions of British authority. The whole town was soon in commotion. No
loud noise or clamor of voices, it is true, was heard proclaiming the deed on the midnight
air; but the rapid footfalls of men hurrying along the streets, the hastily exchanged inquiry,
the eager, suppressed tones of those conversing in small groups at the corners and by-places
around the village, the hasty opening and shutting of doors, and the dancing of lights in every
direction, gave ominous indication of the feeling that had every where been awakened, and the
secret movement which was everywhere afoot among the people.

A small band, who had gathered in the yard of what was called the People's Tavern, were listening,
with many a demonstration of horror and indignation, to the account of one who had escaped
from the Court House after the tories had got possession.

"Where are our leaders, Morris?" asked one of the listeners, as the speaker, a fluent, energetic
young man, closed his recital of the atrocities he had witnessed. "Did they escape, or are
they among the wounded and prisoners?"

"Wright and Carpenter had gone off before we were attacked," was the reply, "the rest, not
among the wounded I have named escaped in the confusion, I think, except Dr. Jones, of Buckingham,
who was driven into the felon's hole with other prisoners; and it may be well that he was,
perhaps, as those bloodthirsty brutes would have suffered no surgeon to be sent for to attend
those who are not past help."

"And Tom Dunning, whose rifle we shall need,--what became of him?"

"He got out in the same manner I did. We stood in a dark corner, at the head of the stairs,
taking note of the proceedings below; when that crafty little chap, that joined us from Brush's,
came wriggling like an eel out from between the legs of the crowding tories, in the passage;
and, working himself up stairs unnoticed, in the same way, beckoned us to follow him, as we
did, into the court-room, where, at his suggestion, we stripped off the sheets of a bed, in
one of those corner sleeping cuddies, made a rope, and by it let ourselves down through a window
to the ground in the rear of the house; when we separated, Dunning going home, as he said,
to arm himself. But here he comes," added the speaker, peering out towards the street, from
which several forms were dimly seen approaching--"here he comes, and those just behind him
I should judge to be Carpenter and Fletcher, by their gait."

"Well, Dunning," asked one of the company, as the hunter came striding up to the spot, "what
is your response to all this?"

"Der-sixty bullets, and a--ditter--pound of powder!" was the stern and significant reply of
the other, as with one hand he struck his rattling bullet-pouch and huge powder-horn, and with
the other brought down the breech of his rifle with a heavy blow upon the ground.

"That's the man for me!" exclaimed Fletcher, now coming up with Carpenter.

"Ay, Dunning is right!" said Carpenter, with emphasis. "If we hold our peace now, the very
stones will cry out for vengeance. But talking is only a small part of what must be done. We
must act. And first of all, this tale of murder and outrage must instantly be thrown upon the
four winds of heaven, and carried into every town in this part of the settlement. Who will
volunteer to ride express with the news?--news which, if I know anything of the spirit of the
great mass of our people, will be taken as a call to arms, and responded to accordingly."

Several eager voices announced their readiness to start off at once on the proposed mission.

"Follow me to the stables, then," resumed the stanch patriot, hastily leading the way to the
barn, and throwing open a stable door. "There!" he continued, pointing to a pair of large,
active-looking brutes, feeding together in one stall--"there are my two horses--take them.
Let one of their riders go north, the other south; and spare no horse-flesh of mine in an emergency
like this; but ride and rally, till you have sent the bloody tale to every house and hut this
side the mountains. And you, Morris and Dunning, accompany me to Captain Wright's. More messengers
must be despatched west and east, into the borders of New Hampshire, and much other business
done before morning."

A far different scene, in the mean while, was in progress among the inmates of the loyal mansion,
which we have before described, and which was destined to give shelter that night to the last
conclave of royal office-holders ever known in the Green Mountains. Although the leaders of
the court party had returned from the sanguinary scene they had enacted, in high exultation
at the decisive victory they supposed they had achieved over their despised opponents, yet
neither their own vain boastings, nor the deeply-quaffed wines of their host, could long keep
up their spirits. Conscience soon began to be busy among them; and their hearts waxed faint
and fearful at the thought of what they had done. They instinctively drew close together, conversed
in subdued tones, or sat uneasily listening to the sounds that occasionally reached them from
without. And whatever they might have said to keep up their own and each other's courage, it
soon became apparent that secret misgivings, fears, and forebodings of a coming retribution
had taken possession of their guilt-smitten bosoms.

And there was another person in that house, to whom the tragical events of the night brought
deep disquietude; but it was a disquietude of quite a different character from that which was
experienced by the troubled wretches we have named: that person was the Tory's Daughter--the
pure, guileless, and nobleminded Sabrey Haviland.

Having been apprised of the intention of Patterson and his confederates to make an assault
upon their opponents as soon as the expected reinforcements arrived, her anxieties on the subject
had prevented her from retiring to rest, as her less concerned companion did, at the usual
hour. And when the startling report of fire-arms broke upon the stillness of the night, she
was not, like many others in the village, at loss to know the cause; and her fears led her
to divine but too well the fatal result. And after an interval of painful suspense, which was
terminated by the return of the tory leaders to the house, she stole softly out of her chamber
to the head of the stairs, and there listened with mingled emotions of horror and disgust to
the boastful recital of their sanguinary deeds, as given by the heartless Gale and others,
to her father and Judge Sabin, who had remained in the house, but who, she perceived with sorrow,
were warm approvers of all that had been done. But, as revolting to her gentle nature as was
the general description of the event, the particulars the exulting narrators soon proceeded
to give were much more so. And when she heard them relate the affray between Woodburn and Peters,
and heard the latter, while making light of his own hurts, boast that he had first given the
other a thrust with his sword through the body, which must finish him before morning; she could
listen no longer, but, hastily retiring to her room, she walked the apartment for nearly an
hour in the deepest agitation and distress.

Among the many excellent traits of Miss Haviland's character, a lively sense of right and wrong,
together with a deep and abiding love of truth and justice, unquestionably predominated. So
strong and controlling, indeed, was this principle in her bosom, that it exhibited itself in
all her conversation, and seemed to be the governing motive of all her actions. And when she
had once discovered the truth and the right, at which she appeared to arrive with intuitive
quickness, no wheedling or sophistry could blind her to their force; and no inducements could
be offered sufficient to cause her to waver in their support. And yet this peculiar trait,
as deeply seated as it was, and as firmly as it was ever exercised, was so beautifully tempered
by the benevolence of her heart, the equanimity of her mind, and the engaging sweetness of
her demeanor, that it never seemed to impart the least tinge of arrogance to her character,
or harshness to her manners. On the contrary, she was all gentleness and devotion, and ever
ready to comply with the wishes of others, when a compliance did not contravene, in her opinion,
any of the principles of even-handed justice; and, in case she felt bound to refuse to yield
to their requests, her refusal was made and maintained with such mild firmness, that none could
be offended, none feel inclined to charge her with obstinacy or perverseness. She was at this
time the mistress of her father's household, her exemplary and intellectual mother having several
years before deceased, and her elder and only sister, the year previous, married one of the
leading loyalists of Guilford. And it had been mainly through the influence of this sister
and her husband, that she had been induced, the preceding fall, to take the step which was
destined to cause her years of sorrow and perplexity--that of engaging herself in marriage
to Peters. She had found few or no opportunities of studying this man's character, having known
him only as a parlor acquaintance, of easy manners and considerable intelligence. And although
she saw nothing particularly objectionable in him, and although she knew that, in point of
wealth and family distinction, he was considered what is termed a desirable match, yet she
had entered into the engagement with many misgivings, and in compliance rather with the wishes
of her friends above named, seconded by the urgent request of her father, than in accordance
with the dictates of her own judgment and inclination. But whatever her doubts at that time,
or during the months immediately following, they had not been sufficient to disturb the usual
even tenor of her feelings, till she left home on her present excursion, during which, as already
intimated, she had seen the character of her affianced in a new light--a light which showed
him to be possessed of traits as abhorrent to her feelings, as, to her mind, they were base
and reprehensible in themselves. And now, to crown all, he had, by an act of deliberate, private
malice, even according to his own account, inflicted a mortal wound on the victim of his former
injuries--the man who, but the day before, had snatched her, whom the other professed to hold
as the highest object of his earthly solicitude, from a watery grave. It was these painful
reflections that were now agitating her bosom; for the more she pondered upon the conduct of
Peters, the more did her heart reject and despise him; and in proportion as her feelings rose
up against him were her sympathies drawn towards his victim, Woodburn, whose noble act had
created so strong a claim upon her gratitude, and whose character and appearance had alike
awakened her interest and admiration.

"Is it indeed thus," she at length uttered, as if summing up the thoughts that had been passing
through her mind, "that he who saved my life, at the risk of his own, must die by the hand
of one who should have been the first to thank and reward him? Ay, and die, too, without receiving
from me, or mine, one word of acknowledgement, even, of the service he so nobly rendered? perhaps
the thought of our ingratitude is now embittering his dying moments! Can I, should I suffer
this so to remain?"

Here she relapsed into silence, and, slowly resuming her walk round the room, seemed for a
while immersed in anxious thought; when she suddenly paused, and, after a moment of apparent
irresolution, stepped to the wall, and gave two or three pulls at the wire connected with the
servants' bell in the kitchen. In a few minutes the summons was answered by the appearance
of the chamber-maid.

"Will you go down to the gentlemen's sitting-room," said Miss Haviland, "ask out my father,
and tell him I would see him a moment in my own room?"

The girl disappeared, and, in a short time, Esquire Haviland, with a slightly disturbed and
anxious air, entered the room, and said,--

"What's the matter, Sabrey? Are you sick to-night, that you are yet up and send for me?"

"O, no," replied the other; "nothing of that kind led me to send for you, but my wish to make
a request which I was unwilling to delay."

The squire cast a somewhat surprised and inquiring look at his daughter, but remained silent,
while the latter resumed:--

"You recollect that this morning, after apprising you of the extent of our obligations to Mr.
Woodburn, about which you seem to have been so misinformed, I suggested that a personal acknowledgment,
with offers of some more substantial token of our gratitude, should be immediately made to
him. Has this been done?"

"No," replied he, with a gathering frown: "having understood the fellow was assorting with
the rebels in their treasonable plots, I did not feel myself bound to seek him in such company
Is that all you wish of me?"

"It is not, sir," she answered seriously, and with the air of one determined not to be repulsed.
"I have accidentally become apprised that Mr. Woodburn, in the affray of to-night, has been
dangerously wounded, and, in this condition, thrust into prison. And, as we have now an opportunity
of testifying our sense of his services, it is my earnest request that you procure his release
from prison, for which your influence here, I know, is sufficient; that he may be brought out
to-night and properly attended,"

"Insane girl!" muttered the father, angrily, "what can have put that absurd project into your
head? Had you been abed hours ago, as you ought, instead of being up and prying into the doings
of our authorities, with which a woman has no concern, I should have been spared this exhibition
of folly. Why, the wretched fellow is but receiving the just deserts of his crimes. He is in
prison for high treason; and had I the will, which I have not, I could not procure his release."

"I cannot believe these opposers of the court will be held to answer for such a crime. Indeed,
it has occurred to me that the authorities themselves may be called to account for firing upon
these unarmed men; and therefore I still hope you will use your exertions for Woodburn's release,"
urged the fair pleader.

"You are to be the judge what is treason, then, hey? And you are ready to side with these daring
and desperate fellows and condemn our authorities, are you? What assurance! You will hardly
persuade me to favor your mad projects, I think," harshly retorted the bigoted old gentleman.

"You can, at least, go to the prison and return him the acknowledgments which our character
and credit require of us," still persisted the former.

"Well, I shall do no such thing," replied the other, with angry impatience; "for I consider
the fellow's conduct tonight has wholly absolved me from my obligations to him, if I was ever
under any," he added, rising to depart.

"I do not view it so, father," returned the unmoved girl, in a mild, expostulating tone, "and
I am sorry for your decision; for, if those whose place it more properly is to do this, refuse
to perform it, I know not why I should not myself undertake the duty."

"You!"

"Yes, father."

"What, to-night?"

"Certainly; another day may be too late."

"Madness and folly! Why, who is to attend you, silly girl?"

"If no gentleman is to be found with courtesy enough to attend me, I shall not hesitate to
go alone, sir."

"We will see if you do!" exclaimed the old gentleman, looking back from the entrance at the
other, with an expression of scornful defiance--"we will see if you do, madam!" he repeated,
closing the door after him, and turning the key on his daughter, whom he thus left a prisoner
in her own room.

As Miss Haviland listened to the springing bolt and her father's departing steps, a slight
flush overspread her face at the thought of the indignity thus put upon her, and she rose,
and, after putting her hand to the door to assure herself that she was not mistaken, proceeded,
with a calm, determined air, to a table on one side of the room, on which stood the materials
for writing; and here, taking pen and paper, she seated herself, and addressed a brief note
to Woodburn, delicately expressing her sense of obligation to him, and concluding with the
hope that she might soon have it in her power to do something towards alleviating his present
situation. Having signed, sealed, and superscribed the billet, she rose and stood some time
hesitating and irresolute.

By what means could this note, now it was written, be made to reach its destination? Should
she again summon the chamber-maid, she presumed her father had so managed that the call would
not be answered; besides, she felt a repugnance to the thought of resorting to such means.
What other method could then be devised?

While thus casting about her for some expedient for effecting her purpose, she thought she
heard some one placing a ladder against the side of the house, beneath a window, opening from
the rear end of the passage adjoining her room; and, after listening a moment, she distinctly
heard the person cautiously ascending. Not being of a timid cast, she quickly removed the thick,
heavy curtains of the window in her room next and very near the one under which the unknown
intruder was mounting the ladder, and, throwing up the sash, peered out; when, to her surprise,
she beheld, and at once recognized, the queer-looking figure of Barty Burt, standing on the
top round of the ladder, scratching his head, and giving other tokens of embarrassment at being
thus unexpectedly caught in this situation.

"Master Bart," said Miss Haviland, who had become somewhat acquainted with the other, while
supplying her room with fuel, previous to his ejection from the house, to which she was knowing,
"your appearance, at this time, to say the least of it, causes me much surprise."

"I returns the compliment, miss," replied Bart; "so that makes us even, and no questions on
ither side, don't it?"

"Perhaps not, sir," returned the former, with seriousness: "at all events, you should be able
to give a good reason for your appearance here, under such circumstances: please explain your
object."

"And if I don't, you will sing out for the squire, you said? Well, I can get down, and off,
before he can get here, I reckon," responded Bart, in a tone of roguish defiance.

"I did not say I would call Esquire Brush; but, unless you explain----"

"Yes, yes, jest as lieves as not, and will, if you'll keep shut til I can run up garret and back."

"Your purpose there, sir?"

"An honest one--only to get my gun up there, which the squire didn't have put out for me, when
he dismissed me with his high-heeled shoes, to-day, and which I darsent name then, fear he'd
have that thrown down, like my 'tother duds, and break it--only that--and if you'll say nothing,
and let me whip in, and up to get it, I'll lay it up against you, as a great oblige, to be
paid for, by a good turn to you some time, miss."

"If that is all, go--and I may wish to speak with you when you come back."

So saying, she gently let down the sash, and, withdrawing a little from her window, stood awaiting
the result; when she soon heard the other, with the light and stealthy movements of a cat,
enter the house, and ascend into the garret, through a small side-door, opening from the passage
we have named. Scarcely a minute had elapsed before she again heard his footsteps stealing
back by her door to the window, through which he had so noiselessly entered; when, once more
raising the sash of her own, she found him already standing on the top of the ladder where
she last saw him, he having effected his ingress and egress with such celerity, that but for
the light fusil he now held in his hand, she would have believed herself mistaken in supposing
he had entered at all.

"Well, miss, I am waiting for your say so," he said, in a low tone, peering warily around him.

"Have you been to the Court House to-night?" hesitatingly asked the other.

"Well, now," replied Bart, hesitating in his turn, "without more token for knowing what you're
up to, I'll say, may be so and may be no so."

"You need not fear me, Bart," replied Sabrey, conjecturing the cause of his hesitation; "I
am no enemy of those who have suffered there to-night. But do you know Mr. Woodburn?

"Harry, who got you out of that river scrape? Yes, lived in his town last summer."

"He is among the wounded and prisoners in jail, it is said?"

"Dreadful true, miss."

"Could you get this small letter to him to-night?" she timidly asked.

"Yes, through the grate; glad to do it, glad of it, twice over," replied Bart, reaching out,
and grasping the proffered billet.

"Why, why do you say that?" asked Sabrey, with an air of mingled doubt and curiosity.

"Cause, in the first place, you'll now keep my secret of being here; and nextly, glad to find
there's one among the court folks that feels decent about this bloody business. But I must
be off. Yes, I'll get it to him," said Bart, beginning to descend.

"Say, Barty. Is there any hope that Mr. Woodburn will survive his wounds?"

"Survive? Live, do you mean? O, yes; though the lunge which that--But no matter. It was well
meant for the heart, and the fellow wan't at all to blame that it didn't reach it, instead
of the inner part of the arm."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Miss Haviland, in a tone of joyful surprise; which the next instant, however,
gave way to one of embarrassment. "Why, I heard--have written, indeed, under the belief that--and
perhaps----Barty, I think, on the whole, I will not send that billet now."

As Bart heard these last words of the fair speaker, so inconsistent with all which both her
words and manner had just expressed, he looked up with a stare of surprise to her face, now
sufficiently revealed, by the glancing light standing near her in the room, to betray its varying
expressions. But, as he ran his keen gray eyes over her hesitating and slightly confused countenance,
he soon seemed to read the secret cause of her sudden change of purpose, arising from that
curious and beautiful trait in woman's heart, which, by some gush of awakened sympathy, often
unfolds all the lurking secrets of the breast, but which, when the cause of that sympathy is
removed, closes up the avenue, and conceals them from view, in the cold reserve of shrinking
delicacy--the colder and more impenetrable in proportion as the disclosure has been complete.

"O, yes, I will carry it," said Bart, pretending to misunderstand the other, while he pocketed
the billet and began to glide down the ladder.

"No," commenced Miss Haviland; "no, Bart, I said----"

"Yes, yes, I will have it there in a jiffy," interrupted Bart, hastening his descent, and the
next instant dodging away in the dark beneath the foot of the ladder.

"Well, let it go," said the foiled and somewhat mortified maiden to herself, after the disappearance
of her strange visitor. "If what I expressed, when I thought him dying, was right and proper,
it cannot be very wrong now."

As soon as she had thus reconciled herself to the unexpected turn which this matter had taken,
Miss Haviland now began to reflect more on Bart's motives in coming, at such an hour of the
night, for his gun; when it, for the first time, occurred to her mind, that he had been induced
to take this step in consequence of some particular call for arms having reference to the events
of the evening. Fearing she might have done wrong in suffering him to take away the gun, if
it was to be used for hostile purposes, and anxious to know whether her conjectures relative
to a rising of the people were well founded, she proceeded to an end window of her room, which
overlooked a range of buildings known to her to be mostly occupied by the opposers of royal
authority; and removing the curtains and raising the sash, she leaned out and listened for
any unusual sounds which might reach her from without. And it was not long before she became
well convinced that her apprehensions were not groundless. Some extraordinary movement was
evidently going on in the village. The low hum of suppressed voices, mingled with various sounds
of busy preparation, came up, on the dense night air, from almost every direction around her.
Here, was heard the small hammer, the grating file, with the occasional clicking of the firelock,
undergoing repairs by the use of the instruments just named. There, could be distinguished
the pecking of flints, the rattling of ramrods, and the regularly repeated rapping of bullet-moulds
to disengage the freshly-cast balls. In other places could be perceived the nasty movements
of men about the stables, evidently engaged in leading out and saddling horses, and making
other preparations for mounting; and then followed the sounds of the quick, short gallop of
their steeds, starting off, on express, in various directions, under the sharply applied lashes
of excited riders, and distinctly revealing their different routes out of the village, by the
streams of fire that flew from their rapidly striking hoofs on the gravelly and frozen ground.
All, indeed, seemed to be in silent commotion through the town. Bart's object in coming for
his gun, at such an hour of the night, was now sufficiently explained; for the quick and discerning
mind of Miss Haviland at once told her that the country was indeed rising in arms to avenge
the atrocities just committed by the party among whom were all her relatives and friends; and
she shuddered at the thought of tomorrow, feeling, as she did, a secret and boding consciousness
that their downfall, brought about by their arrogance and crimes, was now at hand.

CHAPTER VII.

  "A shout as of waters--a long-uttered cry:
   Hark! hark! how it leaps from the earth to the sky!
   From the sky to the earth, from the earth to the sea
   It is grandly reechoed, We are free, we are free!"

Every thing, the next morning, seemed as quiet and peaceful in the village, as if nothing unusual
had occurred there. The commotion of the preceding night appeared to have wholly subsided.
With such secrecy and caution, indeed, had the revolutionists managed, that no knowledge of
their movements had yet reached the ears of any of their opponents. And so guarded was their
conduct, through the whole morning, that the court party leaders, although their spies had
early been out, prowling round the whole village, were yet kept in entire ignorance of all
that had transpired among the former during the night. Being consequently deceived by the false
appearance which every thing within the reach of their observation had been made to wear, and
feeling thus relieved of their last night's guilty fears of a popular outbreak, these cruel
and dastardly minions of royalty now counted on their triumph as complete, and, soon giving
way to noisy exultation, they began openly to boast of the sanguinary measure by which their
supposed victory had been achieved. And, about nine o'clock in the forenoon, the judges and
officers of court, with a select number of their most devoted adherents, all in high spirits,
and wholly unsuspicious of the storm that was silently gathering around them, formed a procession
at the house of Brush, and, attended by a strong armed escort, marched ostentatiously through
the street to the Court House, and entered the courtroom to commence the session.

After the judges had been ushered to their seats, and while they were waiting for the crowd
to enter and settle in their places, Chandler, who had kept aloof till the procession had begun
to form, was seen to run his wary and watchful eye several times over the assembly, to ascertain
whether there were any discoverable indications there pointing to any different state of things
from the one so confidently assumed by his confederates, when he soon appeared to have noted
some circumstance which caused him suddenly to exchange the bland smile he had been wearing
for a look of thoughtfulness and concern.

"Do you notice anything unusual in the crowd this morning, Judge Sabin?" he said to his colleague,
in an anxious whisper as he closed his scrutiny.

"No, your honor," replied the other, "unless it be the cheering sight of encountering none
but friendly faces, instead of the hostile ones, which a man would have been led to expect
to meet here, after so much clamor about popular disaffection.

"Ay," responded the former, with a dubious shake of the head--"ay, but that is the very circumstance
that puzzles me. Had a portion of the assembly been made up of our opponents, quietly mingling
with the rest, as I had rather hoped, I should have construed it into a token of submission;
or, had a committee been here to present a petition, or a remonstrance or two, I should have
been prepared for that, and could have managed, by a little encouragement, and a good deal
of delay, to give every troublesome thing the go-by, till the storm had blown over. But this
entire absence of the disaffected looks a little suspicious, don't it?"

"Why, no," answered the stiff and stolid Sabin; "I can see nothing suspicious about it. Indeed,
it goes to show me that the rebellion is crushed; for, as I presume, the honest but well-meaning
part of the rebels are ashamed, and their leaders afraid to show their faces here to-day, after
last night's lesson."

"I hope it may be as you suppose; but I have my doubts in the matter," returned Chandler, with
another dissenting shake of the head, as he turned away to renew his observations on the company
before him.

On resuming his scrutiny, the uneasy judge soon perceived that the assembly, during his conversation
with his colleague, had received an accession of several individuals, whom he recognized as
belonging to the party whose absence had awakened his suspicions. But the presence of these
persons, after he had carefully noted their appearance, instead of tending to allay only went
to confirm, his apprehensions; for, as he closely scanned the bearing and countenance of each,
and marked the assured and determined look and covert smile which spoke of anticipated triumph,
attended with an occasional expectant glance through the windows, he there read, with the instinctive
sagacity sometimes seen in men of his cast of character, enough to convince him, with what
he had previously observed, that a movement of a dangerous magnitude was somewhere in progress,
and soon to be developed against the court party. And he instantly resolved to lose no time
before trimming his sails and preparing to meet the coming storm. And the next moment, to the
surprise of his colleague and the officers of the court, he was on his feet, requesting silence
that he might address the assembly. He then proceeded to remark on the unfortunate occurrences
of the previous night, with a show of much feeling and regret, and concluded by expressing
his disapprobation of the course taken in the affair by the sheriff and his abettors, in a
manner that would have given the highest offence to all implicated, had they not believed that
the speech was secretly designed only as a game on their opponents, whom he might think it
expedient to quiet and delude a little longer. They, therefore, winked knowingly to each other,
and remained silent; while the speaker sat down with the mental exclamation,--

"There, let it come now! That speech will do to be quoted. I can refer them to it as the public
expression of my views before I knew what was coming."

Having thus placed himself in a position, as he believed, where he could easily turn himself
to meet any contingency,--where, in case the apprehended overthrow of the court party took
place, he could easily and safely leap the next hour to a favorable, if not a high stand among
the new dispensers of place and power, or where, should the present authorities be able to
sustain themselves, he could as easily explain away his objectionable doings, and retain his
standing among them. Having done this, he then turned his attention to the official duties
of his place, and ordered the crier to give the usual notice, that the court was now open for
business. This being formally done, the court docket was called over, and the causes there
entered variously disposed of for the time being, by the judges, till they came to that of
Woodburn versus Peters; which was a petition for a new trial for the recovery of the petitioner's
alleged farm, that had been decided, at the preceding term, to be the property of Peters, on
the ground and in the manner mentioned in a former chapter.

"Who answers for this Woodburn?" said Sabin, with a contemptuous air. Significant glances were
exchanged among the tory lawyers and officers about the bar at the question, and a malicious
smile stole over the features of Peters, who had found a seat among them.

"I move the court," said Stearns, the attorney of Peters, "for a judgment in favor of my client
for his costs, and also for a writ of possession of his land, of which he has been so unjustly
kept out by this vexatious proceeding. And, as the petitioner has not entered his appearance
according to rule, whereby he tacitly admits that his cause cannot be sustained, I will not
permit myself to doubt that the court will so order, even at this early hour--they certainly
have the power to do so."

"They have also the power to postpone the hearing, even to the last day of the term, before
rendering judgment," bluntly interposed Knights, a large, plain-looking practitioner at the
bar, who had taken no active part either for or against the court party.

"We all know how this young man is debarred from appearing here to-day; and it seems to me
manifestly unjust that any power which deprives a man of the opportunity of appearing at court,
should render judgment against him in consequence of his non-appearance. I would, therefore,
suggest a delay in this cause. Perhaps, within a short time, he will employ counsel, or be
liberated."

"And perhaps be hung for treason," said Stearns, in a sneering under-tone.

"Do you answer for him or not, Mr. Knights?" demanded Sabin, impatiently.

"No, your honor; he has not authorized me. I only made a suggestion," answered the former.

"Then judgment must go for Peters," rejoined Sabin, with ill suppressed warmth. "Traitors and
rebels must look somewhere else for favor, beside this court, while I hold a seat here."

"Nobody has yet been convicted of treason, I believe," promptly responded Knights, while an
expression of indignant scorn flashed over his manly and intelligent countenance; "and till
such is the case, I take it the rights of all have an equal claim on the court. I should be
pleased to hear the opinion of the chief justice in this matter."

"Although I may have my doubts on this subject, Mr. Knights," graciously replied Chandler,
"you could hardly expect me to be guilty of so great a discourtesy to my colleague here, as
to interfere, after the intimation he has just given."

"Make the entry, Mr. Clerk," said Sabin, hastily; "judgment for costs, and a writ of possession.
I am not troubled with any doubts in the matter, and will take the responsibility of the decision."

Scarcely was the cause thus decided before Peters glided up to the clerk, and whispered in
his ear; when the latter, nodding assentingly, opened his desk, and taking out two nicely-folded
papers, handed them slyly to the other, who, receiving them in the same manner, immediately
left the court-room and proceeded down stairs. As the exulting suitor passed through the crowd
gathered round the main entrance, he beckoned to a short, thick set, harsh-featured fellow,
who immediately followed him around a corner of the building.

"Well, Fitch," said Peters, pausing as soon as they were out of the reach of observation, "have
you done up your business in town, so as to be ready for a start for Guilford?"

"Yes; don't know but I have. But you can't have got your decision, papers made out, and all,
so soon as this?" replied the other.

"All complete!" returned Peters, triumphantly.

"Why, the court has not been in session an hour!"

"True, but I had spoken to Judge Sabin to have my case taken up this morning; and, as nobody
was authorized to answer for Woodburn, the case was disposed of in a hurry. And the clerk,
with whom I had also arranged matters, had made out the papers before going into court, and
got them all signed off and ready, in anticipation; and here they are, ready for your hands,
Mr. Constable."

"Ay, I see; but what is the necessity of serving them so immediately?"

"Why, there's no knowing what may happen, Fitch. If the rebels, in revenge for last night's
peppering, should send over the mountain for old Ethan Allen and his gang to come here to stir
up and lead on the disaffected, all legal proceedings might be stopped. I know most of our
folks think, this morning, that the enemy are fairly under foot. But Chandler, who is as keen
as a fox for smelling out trouble, acts to me as if he was frightened; and I think he must
have scented mischief brewing, somewhere."

"Some say he is a very timorsome man."

"Yes; but watchful and sagacious, and therefore an index not to be disregarded."

"May be so. But what are your orders about these papers?"

"With this, the writ of possession, go, in the first place, and turn the old woman, his mother,
neck and heels, from the house; and then get some stiff fellow in for a tenant, rent free the
first year, if you can do no better, provided he will defend the premises against Woodburn,
if he escapes unhung. And with this paper, an execution for costs, as you will see, seize the
fellow's cow and oxen, and all else you can find, and sell them as soon as the law will let you.

"Why, you won't leave enough of the fellow for a grease spot."

"Blast him; I don't intend to. But now is the time to do it, before he can get out of jail
and back there to give fight and trouble us. So you fix all these matters about right for me,
Fitch and I'll do the handsome thing by you when I come over, after the roads get settled,
in the spring."

"Never fear me, as long as I know what a friend's wishes are," replied the constable, with
a significant wink, as he stuffed the documents into his hat, and bustled off on the detestable
mission of his more detestable employer.

While Peters and his official minion was thus engaged, Tom Dunning was seen coming, with hasty
strides, along the road, from the direction of his cabin, which was situated without the village,
about a half mile north of the Court House, from which it would have been visible but for the
pine thicket by which it was partially enclosed. As the hunter was entering the village, he
met Morris, hastening up the street, from the opposite part of the town.

"Well met," said Morris; "for I was bound to your quarters with a message, which----"

"Which I am ditter ready to receive, and give you one, which I started to carry to your folks,
in return. So, first for yours."

"Mine is, that we are now drawn up, two hundred strong, in the first woods south of the village,
and are ready to march."

"And mine, that we are der ditto; besides being a hundred better than you, all chafing, like
ditter tied-up dogs, to be let on."

"I will back, then, to my post with the news; and in less than a half hour, tell them, they
shall hear our signal of entering the village, as agreed, which we will expect you to answer,
and then rush on, as fast as you please, to effect a junction, as we wheel into the court-yard.
But stay: have the prisoners been apprized that their deliverance is at hand?"

"Yes; I ran up at the time the court ditter went in, and, in the bustle, got a chance to tell
them through the grate."

"All right; but how are the wounded doing?"

"Ditter well, except French, who is fast going."

"Indeed! Poor fellow! But his blood will now soon be avenged," said Morris, as the two now
separated and hastened back to their respective posts.

After Peters had despatched the constable on his work of legal plunder and revenge, he returned
to the court-room for the purpose of pressing to a hearing some other cases which he had pending
against political opponents, and which he hoped, through the favor of a biased and corrupt
court, to curry as easily as the one wherein he had just so wickedly triumphed. But he was
not permitted to reap any more of his despicable advantages; for he found that another, actuated
by motives no less unworthy than his own, had already gained the attention of the court to
a case of which he had been the prime mover and complainant. This was Secretary Brush; and
the trial he had been urging on, through Stearns, the acting state's attorney, was that of
the alleged murderer, to whose somewhat mysterious, as well as suspicious, arrest and imprisonment
allusion has already been made.

"As you say the witnesses are in court, Mr. Stearns," observed Chandler, after a moment's consultation
with his colleague, "as all the witnesses are here, we have concluded to take up the criminal
case in question. You may therefore direct the sheriff to bring the prisoner into court without
delay."

The sheriff, accordingly, left the court-room, and, in a short time, reappeared with the prisoner,
followed by two armed men, who closely guarded and conducted him forward to the criminal's box.

The prisoner was a man of the apparent age of sixty, of rather slight proportions of body,
but with a large head, and coarse features, that seemed to be kept almost constantly in play
by a lively, flashing countenance, in which meekness and fire, kindness and austerity, were
curiously blended. As he seated himself, he turned round and faced the court with a fearless
and even scornful air, but promptly rose, at the bidding of the chief judge, to listen to the
information, which the clerk proceeded to read against him at length, closing by addressing
to the respondent the usual question as to his guilt or innocence of the charge.

"I once," calmly responded the prisoner--"I once knocked up a pistol, pointed at my breast
by a robber. It went off and killed one of his fellows, and----"

"Say, guilty or not guilty?" sternly interrupted the clerk.

"Not guilty, then," answered the other, determined, while going through these preliminary forms,
that his accusers, the court, and audience, should hear what, under other circumstances, he
would have reserved for the more appropriate time of making his defence, or left to his counsel.
"Ay, not guilty; and that gentleman," he rapidly continued, pointing to Brush, "that gentleman,
who has offered to free me if I would submit to be robbed, well knows the truth of what I say.
The witnesses, whom he has suborned, also know it, if they know any thing about that luckless
affray."

"Liar!" shouted Brush, springing up, in high excitement, as soon as he could recover from the
surprise and confusion into which this bold and unexpected charge had thrown him.

"The man's insane--evidently insane, your honors!" cried Stearns, who, in his anxiety to shield
his friend Brush, thought not of the effect of such a remark.

"I thank the attorney for the government for that admission, may it please the court," said
Knights, rising, with a sarcastic glance at Stearns. "I may wish to make use of it."

"Are you counsel for the prisoner, sir?" sharply demanded the other.

"I am, sir," coolly replied Knights; "and you may find, before we get through the trial, that
what the prisoner has said, as much out of place as it was, is not the only truth to be developed.
But before the case proceeds any further, I offer a plea to the jurisdiction of this court,
and at once submit, whether a man can be tried here for an offence alleged to have been committed
in another county, without a special order from the governor for that purpose,"

"That order is obtained and on file, sir. So that learned bubble is burst, as will all the
rest you can raise in favor of the miserable wretch you have stooped to defend," said Stevens,
exultingly. "Mr. Clerk, pass up that order to the court."

"Are you satisfied now, Mr. Knights?" asked Sabin, with undignified feeling, after glancing
at the order which had been laid before the judges. "Mr. Stearns, proceed with the cause."

But that court, on whom the subservient attorney and his corrupt and arrogant friend depended
to convict an innocent man of an infamous crime, that a private and nefarious object might
thereby be enforced--that court were now destined to be arrested in their career of judicial
oppression before they had time to add another stain to their already blackened characters:
for, at this moment, a deep and piercing groan, issuing from one of the prison-rooms beneath,
resounded through the building so fearfully distinct, as to cause every individual of the assembly
to start, and even to bring the judges and officers of the court to a dead pause in their proceedings.
A moment of death-like silence ensued; when another and a sharper groan of anguish, bursting
evidently from the same lips, and swelling up to the highest compass of the human voice, and
ending in a prolonged screech of mortal agony, rang through the apartment, sending a thrill
of horror to the very hearts of the appalled multitude!

"Who? What? For God's sake, what is that?" exclaimed a dozen eager and trembling voices at
once, as nearly the whole assembly started to their feet, and stood with amazed and perplexed
countenances, inquiringly gazing at each other.

"Don't your consciences tell you that?" exclaimed the prisoner, Herriot, in a loud, fearless
voice, running his stern, indignant eye over the court, its officers, and leading partisans
around the bar. "Don't your consciences tell you what it was? Then I will! It was the death-screech
of the poor murdered French, whose tortured spirit, now beyond the reach of your power, went
out with that fearful cry which has just assailed your guilty ears!"

"Mr. Sheriff! Mr. Sheriff!" sputtered Sabin, boiling with wrath, and pointing menacingly to
the prisoner.

"Silence, there, blabbing miscreant!" thundered Patterson.

"Ah! No wonder ye want silence, when that name is mentioned," returned Herriot, unflinchingly.

Struck dumb with astonishment at the unexpected audacity of the prisoner in thus throwing out,
in open court, such bold and cutting intimations of their guilty conduct, the judges and officers
seemed perfectly at a loss how to act, or give vent to their maddened feelings, for some moments.
Soon, however, the most prompt and reckless among them found the use of their tongues.

"Shoot him down, Patterson!" exclaimed Brush, with an oath.

"Treason! I charge him with treason, and demand that he be ironed and gagged on the spot!"
shouted Gale, bringing down his clinched fist heavily on the desk before him!

"Yes, high treason; let us re-arrest him, and see if we can hang him on that, should he escape
on the other charge," chimed in Stearns.

"I have my doubts," began Chandler, who was growing every moment more wavering and uneasy.

"No doubts about it," interrupted Sabin, almost choking with rage. "I'll not sit here and see
the king's authority insulted, and his court treated with such contempt and treasonable defiance;
and I order him instantly in irons--chains--yes, chains, Mr. Sheriff!"

"You can chain the body, but shall not fetter the tongue," responded Herriot, in no way dismayed
by the threats of his enraged persecutors, or their preparations to confine and torture his
person; "for I will speak, and you shall hear, ye tyrants! Listen then, ye red-handed assassins!
The blood of your murdered victim has cried up to God for vengeance. The cry has been heard!
the unseen hand has already traced your doom on the wall! and this day, ay, within this hour,"
he continued, glancing through the window to a dark mass of men, who might now be partially
discerned drawn up behind the point of woods at the north--"ay, within this very hour, that
doom shall be fulfilled! Hark!" he added, in startling tones, after a momentary pause--"hark!
do ye hear those signal guns, echoing from post to post, round your beleaguered Babylon? Do
you hear those shouts? The avengers of blood are even now at your doors. Hear, and tremble!"

As the speaker closed his bold denunciations, he descended from the bench which he had mounted
for the purpose, and, advancing to the sheriff and his assistants, now standing mute and doubtful
with their hastily procured fetters in their hands, he paused, and stood confronting them with
an ironical smile, and with folded arms, in token of his readiness now to submit himself to
their hands. But a wonderful change had suddenly come over the whole band of these tory dignitaries.
The dark and angry scowls of mediated revenge, and the more fiery expressions of undisguised
wrath, which were bent on the dauntless old man during the first part of his denunciations,
had, by the time he made his closing announcement, all given way to looks of surprise and apprehension.
No one offered to lay hands on him; for, as the truth of what he said was every moment more
strongly confirmed by the increasing tumult without, no one had any thoughts to spare for any
but himself. And soon the whole assembly broke from their places, and, in spite of the loud
calls of the officers for silence and order, began to cry out in eager inquiries, and run about
the room in the utmost confusion and alarm. At this juncture, David Redding, who had been thus
far the most reckless and bloodthirsty tory of all, burst into the room, hurriedly exclaiming,--

"The people have risen in arms, and are pouring in upon us, by hundreds, from every direction!
In five minutes this house will be surrounded, and we in their power. Let every man look to
his own safety! I shall to mine," he added, rushing back down to the front door, where, instead
of attempting to escape through the back way, as he might then have done, he began to shout,
"Hurra for Congress!" and, "Down with the British court!" at the very top of his voice.

"I resign my commission," cried Chandler, jumping up in great trepidation. "Let it be distinctly
understood," he repeated, raising his voice in his anxiety to be heard--"yes, let it be distinctly
understood, that I have resigned my commission as judge of this court."

"D----n him! what does he mean by that?" muttered Gale, turning to Patterson.

"It means he is going to turn tail, as I always thought he would,--the cursed cowardly traitor!"
replied the latter, gnashing his teeth. "But let him, and that pitiful poltroon of a Redding,
go where they please. We will see to matters ourselves. I don't believe it is any thing more
than a mere mob, who will scatter at the first fire. So follow me, Gale; and all the rest of
ye, that aint afraid of your own shadows, follow me, and I'll soon know what can be done."

And, while lawyers and suitors were hastily snatching up their papers, and all were making
a general rush for the door, in the universal panic which had seized them, the boastful sheriff,
attended by his assistants and the tiger-tempered Gale, pushed his way down stairs, shaking
his sword over his head, and shouting with all his might,--

"To arms! Every friend to the court and king, to arms! Stand to your guns there below, guards,
and shoot down every rebel that attempts to enter!"

But, when he reached the front entrance, the spectacle which there greeted his eyes seemed
to have an instant effect in cooling his military ardor. There, to his dismay, he beheld drawn
up, within thirty paces of the door, an organized and well-armed body of more than three hundred
men; while small detachments, constantly arriving, were falling in on the right and left, and
extending the wings round the whole building. And as the discomfited loyalist ran his eye along
the line of the broad-breasted and fierce-looking fellows before him, and recognized among
them the Huntingtons, the Knights, the Stevenses, the Baileys, the Brighams, the Curtises,
and other stanch and leading patriots, from nearly every town bordering on the Connecticut,
and saw the determined look and the indignant flashing of their countenances, he at once read
not only the entire overthrow of his party in this section of the country, but the individual
peril in which he, and his abettors in the massacre, now stood before an outraged and excited
populace.

"What ails your men, Squire Sheriff?" cried Barty Burt, now grown to a soldier in the ranks
of the assailants, as he pointed tauntingly to the company of tory guards who had been stationed
in the yard, but who now, sharing in the general panic, had thrown down their arms, and stood
huddled together near the door; "why don't they pick up their shooting-irons, and blaze away
at the 'd----d rebels,' as I think I heard you order, just now?"

"And if that won't ditter do," exclaimed the well-known voice of Tom Dunning from another part
of the ranks, "suppose you ditter read another king's proclamation at us: no knowing but we
might be ditter done for, entirely."

The sheriff waited to hear no more, but hastily retreated into the house, followed by a shout
of derisive laughter; and his place was the next moment occupied by Chandler, who bustled forward
to the steps, and, in a flustered, supplicatory manner, asked leave to address his "respected
fellow-citizens."

"Short speeches, judge!" impatiently cried Colonel Carpenter, who seemed, from his position
on horseback among the troops and other appearances, to be chief in command--"short speeches,
if any. We have come here on a business which neither long speeches nor smooth ones will prevent
us from executing."

The judge, however, could not afford to take this as a repulse; and, with this doubtful license,
he went on to say, that on hearing, in the morning, as he did with astonishment and horror,
of the unauthorized proceedings of last night, he had denounced the outrage, in an address
at the opening of the court; and not finding himself supported, he had resigned, and left his
seat on the bench.

"And now," he added in conclusion, "being freed from the trammels of my oath of office, which
have lately become so painful to me, I feel myself again one of the people, and stand ready
to cooperate with them in any measure required by the public welfare."

A very faint and scattering shout of applause, in two or three places, mingled with hisses
and murmurs in others, was the only response with which this address was received. But even
with this equivocal testimony of public feeling towards him, this despicable functionary felt
gratified. "I am safe," said he to himself, with a long-drawn breath, as he descended the steps,
to watch an opportunity to mingle with the party with whom he was now especially anxious to
be seen, and to whom he was ready to say, in the words of the satirist,--

  "I'm all submission, what you'd have me, make me;
   The only question is, sirs, will you take me?"

At this moment a sash was thrown up, and the prisoner, Herriot, appeared at a window of the
court-room above.

"I have been brought up here this morning," he said, shaking back his gray locks, and raising
his stern, solemn voice to a pitch clearly audible to all in the grounds below--"I have been
brought here from my dungeon to answer to the charge of a foul crime; and both my accusers
and triers, fleeing even before any one appeared to pursue, have left their places, having
neither tried nor condemned me. But scorning to follow their example, I now appear, to submit
myself for a verdict, to the rightful source of all power--the people."

"Neither will we condemn thee," cried Knowlton, pursuing the scriptural thought of the other;
"if thy accusers and judges have left thee uncondemned, thou shalt not be condemned by us;
at least not by me, who have long had my opinions of the character of this prosecution."

"As also have I," responded Captain Wright. "I know something of the witnesses, on whom, it
is said, they depended to convict father Herriot; and I would not hang a dog on their testimony.
I move, therefore, that we here pronounce a verdict of acquittal. Who says, ay?"

"Ay!" promptly responded a dozen voices; and "Ay!" the next instant rose in one loud, unanimous
shout from the whole multitude.

"A thousand thanks to you, my friends, for your generous confidence in my innocence," returned
the old man with emotion; "and, thank God, your confidence is not misplaced. I was formerly
guilty of much, which has cost me many bitter tears of repentance; but there is no blood on
my hands, and I will now return to my hermit hut, from which they dragged me, there to pray
for the success of the good cause in which you are engaged, leaving to you what lesson shall
be taught those Hamans who have filled these dungeons with the dying and wounded, now demanding
your care."

The effect of the old man's closing hint was instantly visible on the multitude, who decided
by acclamation to act upon it without delay; and accordingly a score of resolute fellows were
detached to proceed to the prisons, release their friends, and fill their places, for the present,
with their murderous oppressors.

CHAPTER VIII.

  "----right represt,
   Will heave with the deep earthquake's fierce unrest,
   Then fling, with fiery strength, the mountain from its breast"

When the besieged tories, who were now mostly crowded together in the broad space on the lower
floor, saw a column of their assailants entering the front door, and advancing upon them with
levelled muskets to sacrifice them, as they supposed, on the spot, they were seized with a
fresh and uncontrollable panic, and made such a tremendous rush for the back entrance, that
the only sentry who happened at that moment to be there, was, in spite of all his threats to
fire upon them, instantly borne down, or thrust aside, by the living torrent that now burst
through the door; and before a force sufficient to stop them could reach the spot, numbers
had escaped into the adjoining fields, where, scattering in different directions, they commenced
their disorderly flight, with all the speed which their guilty terrors could lend them. The
next moment, however, as the cry that the tories were escaping was raised, a hundred of their
most fleet-footed opponents were seen leaping the fences into the fields, and giving chase
to the frightened fugitives. A scene, in which the ludicrous, the novel, the wild, and the
fearful, were strangely mingled, now ensued; for, although a strong guard still retained their
places round the Court House, who, with the detachment that had entered as we have described,
proceeded to take into custody the remaining tories and liberate the imprisoned, yet the main
body of the revolutionists joined in the work of hunting down the flying enemy; those not only
who had escaped from the Court House in the manner we have named, but all concerned in the
massacre that could be found secreted or lurking about the village; while the exulting shouts
of the victors as they overtook, seized, and brought to the ground the vanquished; the abject
cries of the latter for quarter; the reports of muskets fired by pursuers over the heads of
the pursued, to frighten them to surrender; the beating on drums, and the loud clamor of mingling
voices,--all combined to swell the uproar and confusion of the exciting scene.

"How like the ditter deuse these lawyers do scratch gravel!" exclaimed Tom Dunning, as he singled
out and gave chase to Stearns and Knights, who together were making their way across the fields,
in the direction of the river, as if life and death hung on their speed. "Ha! ha!" continued
the tickled hunter, laughing so immoderately at the novel spectacle, as greatly to impede his
own progress--"ha! ha! ha! ha! Why, I der don't believe but what they've got consciences, after
all! for what else could make their ditter drumsticks fly so?"

But although the hunter, in thus indulging his merriment, suffered himself actually to lose
ground in the race, yet he had no notion of relinquishing the chase, or losing the game; for,
conscious of his own powers, and thinking lightly of those of the fugitives, he supposed, that,
as soon as he chose to exert himself, he could easily make the race a short one, and as easily
capture and lead them back in triumph; and he began to think over the jokes he would crack
at their expense on the way. But the unseen event of the next moment showed him, to his vexation,
that his inaction, and confidence in his own powers to remedy the consequences of it, had cost
him all the anticipated pleasures of his expected victory. For scarcely had he commenced the
pursuit in earnest, when the fugitive lawyers reached the bank of the river, and at the very
place too, as it provokingly happened, where his own log-canoe chanced to be moored, and hastily
leaping into it, they managed with such dexterity and quickness, in handling the oars and cutting
the fastenings, as to push off, and get fairly out of the reach of their pursuer, before he
could gain the spot; and his threat to fire at them, if they did not return, and the execution
of that threat the next moment, which sent a bullet skipping over the water within a foot of
the receding canoe, as he only intended, were all without effect in compelling the return of
the panic-struck attorneys. And the balked pursuer had soon the mortification to see his crafty
brace of intended captives land in safety on the opposite shore, which he had now no means
of gaining, and disappear in the dark pine forest then lining the eastern bank of the Connecticut
at this place.

"Outwitted, by ditter Judas!" exclaimed the hunter, in his vexation. "These lawyers, dog 'em!
they have so much of the Old Scratcher in 'em, that they will outdo a fellow at his own trade.
However, I've done the new state some ditter service, I reckon, seeing I've fairly driven such
a precious pair of 'em out of it." [Footnote: Knights, who, unlike his companion, was no loyalist,
appears to have become infected with the panic that had seized his loyal associates, in common
with the whole court party; and, though he had no cause for alarm, fled with those who escaped
from the Court House, on this memorable occasion. It is probable, that owing to his supposed
interest in the continuance of the court, and consequent unwillingness to co-operate in the
measures on foot to overthrow it, he was purposely kept in ignorance of the movements of the
revolutionists, and therefore taken wholly by surprise when the storm burst. At all events,
his speedy return, immediate resumption of his professional duties at Brattleborough, and subsequent
promotion to the bench, abundantly shows that he no less enjoyed the confidence of the American
party than his two namesakes, and, we believe, relatives, whom we have named as present among
the assailants, and who were afterwards officers in our revolutionary forces. An aged and distinguished
early settler, to whom the author is indebted for many of the incidents he has here delineated,
thus writes in relation to the particular one in question:--

"I have heard Judge Samuel Knights, who, as chief justice, presided in the Supreme Court from
1791 to 1793, describe the trepidation that seized them, when, after the massacre, and on the
rising of the surrounding country, they came to learn the excited state of the populace. He
related how he and another member of the bar (Stearns, I think, who was afterwards attorney
secretary of Nova Scotia) hurried down to the river, and finding there a boat, (such as was
used in those times for carrying seines or nets at the shad and salmon fishing grounds, which
were frequent on both sides the river, below the Great Falls,) they paddled themselves across,
and lay all day under a log in the pine forest opposite the town; and, when night came, went
to Parson Fessenden's, at Walpole, and obtained a horse, so that, by riding and tying, they
got out of the country till the storm blew over, when Knights returned to Brattleborough."]

With this consolatory reflection, he now turned and retraced his steps towards the scene of
action. While on his way thither, and soon after passing the rear of the building before described
as the head-quarters of the tory leaders, his attention was arrested by the lamentable outcries
of some one alternately bawling for help, and begging for mercy; when, turning to the spot,
he there beheld his associate, Barty Burt, astride the haughty owner of the mansion just named,
who, with dress sadly soiled and disordered, was creeping on his hands and knees on the ground,
towards his house, which, it appeared, he had nearly gained, when he was overtaken, thrown
to the ground, and mounted by his agile and tormenting captor, who was now taking his whimsical
revenge for former indignities, by compelling the fallen secretary, through the efficacy of
a loaded pistol just wrenched from the latter's hand, to carry him on his back, in the manner
above described.

"What the dogs are you ditter doing there, Bart?" said Dunning, with a broad grin, as he came
up and recognized the secretary in such a strange plight and attitude.

"O, nothin very desput; only showing Squire Brush, here the differ between to-day and yesterday,
that's all," replied Bart kicking and spurring, like a boy on some broken-down horse "Get up,
here! Gee! whoa, Dobbin! Kinder seems to me," he continued to his groaning prisoner--"kinder
seems to me I heard somebody say,'tother night, that Bart Burt wasn't above a jackass. Wonder
if I aint above a jackass now? only his ears may need pulling and stretching a little," he
added, suiting the action to the word.

"For God's sake, my good man," said Brush, turning imploringly to Dunning, "do relieve me from
the clutches of this insatiate imp of hell. Let him shoot me, if he will; but don't leave me
to be worried, and trod into the mud and splosh, like a dog, by the revengeful young savage.
It is more than flesh and blood can bear."

"Well, now, squire, I wouldn't make such a tearing fuss about this little bit of a walloping,
after what's happened, if I was you," said Bart. "There was our differ about who was the jackass,
and sich like, that night, you know, which I kinder thought I might as well settle; and then,
again, there was your good-by, yesterday; but may be I've done enough to make that square,
too. So I don't care if I let you up, now, seeing as how Mr. Dunning has come to take care
of your worship," added the speaker, springing nimbly a few paces aside, and facing about with
presented pistol, as if to keep the other on good behavior.

"What can you want with me, sir?" said the disencumbered secretary to the hunter, after gaining
his feet and shaking off the mud from his bedraggled garments.

