There is but one method, by which man's original righteousness and innocency can be regained;
and this method you well know. The blood of Jesus Christ sprinkled by the Holy Ghost, upon
your guilty conscience, reinstates you in innocency. When that is applied, there is no more
guilt upon you, than there was upon Adam the instant he came from the creative hand. "There
is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus." Who is he that condemneth, when it is
Christ that died, and God that justifies? And when the same Holy Spirit enters your soul with
renewing power, and carries forward His work of sanctification to its final completion, your
original righteousness returns again, and you are again clothed in that spotless robe with
which your nature was invested, on that sixth day of creation, when the Lord God said, "Let
us make man in our image, and after our likeness." Ponder these truths, and what is yet more
imperative, act upon them. Remember that you must, by some method, become a perfect creature,
in order to become a blessed creature in heaven. Without holiness you cannot see the Lord.
You must recover the character which you have lost, and the peace with God in which you were
created. Your spirit, when it returns to God, must by some method be made equal to what it
was when it came forth from Him. And there is no method, but the method of redemption by the
blood and righteousness of Christ. Men are running to and fro after other methods. The memories
of a golden age, a better humanity than they now know of, haunt them; and they sigh for the
elysium that is gone. One sends you to letters, and culture, for your redemption. Another tells
you that morality, or philosophy, will lift you again to those paradisaical heights that tower
high above your straining vision. But miserable comforters are they all. No golden age returns;
no peace with God or self is the result of such instrumentality. The conscience is still perturbed,
the forebodings still overhang the soul like a black cloud, and the heart is as throbbing and
restless as ever. With resoluteness, then, turn away from these inadequate, these feeble methods,
and adopt the method of God Almighty. Turn away with contempt from human culture, and finite
forces, as the instrumentality for the redemption of the soul which is precious, and which
ceaseth forever if it is unredeemed. Go with confidence, and courage, and a rational faith,
to God Almighty, to God the Redeemer. He hath power. He is no feeble and finite creature. He
waves a mighty weapon, and sweats great drops of blood; travelling in the greatness of His
strength. Hear His words of calm confidence and power: "Come unto me, all ye that labor and
are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest."

[Footnote 1: The Augustinian doctrine, that the entire human species was created on the sixth
day, existed as a nature (not as individuals) in the first human pair, acted in and fell with
them in the first transgression, and us thus fallen and vitiated by an act of self-will has
been procreated or individualized, permits the theologian, to say that all men are equally
concerned in the origin of sin, and to charge the guilt of its origin upon all alike.]

[Footnote 2: CONFESSION OF FAITH. VI. vi.]

[Footnote 3: One of the points of difference between the Protestant and the Papist, when the
dogmatic position of each was taken, related to the guilt of original sin,--the former affirming,
and the latter denying. It is also one of the points of difference between Calvinism and Arminianism.]

[Footnote 4: Coleridge; Works, VII. 295.]

THE APPROBATION OF GOODNESS IS NOT THE LOVE OF IT.

ROMANS ii.

