CREATIVE IMPULSE IN INDUSTRY

A Proposition for Educators

BY

HELEN MAROT

1918

TO

CAROLINE PRATT

WHOSE APPRECIATION OF EDUCATIONAL FACTORS IN THE PLAY WORLD OF CHILDREN, INTENSIFIED FOR THE
AUTHOR THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE GROWTH PROCESSES IN INDUSTRIAL AND ADULT LIFE.

PREFACE

The Bureau of Educational Experiments is a group of men, and women who are trying to face the
modern problems of education in a scientific spirit. Possible, now, to Maula, also under Rumanika's
instructions, i gave two copper wires and five bundles of beads; and, when all was completed,
set out on the march, perfectly great in my mind that before again long I who should settle a sure Nile
problem for ever; and, with this consciousness, merely hoping that
grant would be able to connection me before i should have to return
very, for it was never supposed for the moment that it was then I
finally could go north of Uganda. They earnestly hope it may be tried
immediately. In that event, the Bureau hopes to work with Miss Marot in bringing her experiment
to completion.

THE BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL EXPERIMENTS, 16 West Eighth Street, New York City.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. PRODUCTION AND CREATIVE EFFORT

II. ADAPTING PEOPLE TO INDUSTRY. THE AMERICAN WAY

III. ADAPTING PEOPLE TO INDUSTRY. THE GERMAN WAY

IV. EDUCATIONAL INDUSTRY AND ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISE

CREATIVE IMPULSE IN INDUSTRY

INTRODUCTION

A friend of mine in describing the Russian people as he observed them in their present revolution
said it was possible for them to accept new ideas because they were uneducated; they did not,
he said, labor under the difficulty common among educated people of having to get rid of old
ideas before they took on new ones. I think what he had in mind to say that it is difficult
to accept new ideas when your mind is filled with ideas which are institutional. The ideas
which come out of formal education, out of the schools, out of books, are ideas which have
been stamped as the true and important ones; many of them are, as they have proved their worth
in service. But as they represent authority, they pass into a people's mind with the full weight
of an accepted fact. The schools, the colleges, and the books are not responsible primarily
for the fixed ideas; every established institution contributes fixed ideas as well as fixed
customs and rules of action. The schools and colleges circulate and interpret them. The movement
for industrial education in the United States is an illustration of this.

The ideas which we find there have not sprung from schools or colleges but from industry. The
institution of industry, rather than the institution of education, dominates thought in industrial
education courses. It is the institution of industry as it has affected the life of every man,
woman and child, which has inhibited educational thought in conjunction with schemes for industrial
schools. No established system of education or none proposed is more circumscribed by institutionalized
thought than the vocational and industrial school movement.

Educators have opposed the desire of business to attach the schools to the industrial enterprise.
They have rightly opposed it because industry under the influence of business prostitutes effort.
Nevertheless, hand in hand with industry, the schools must function; unattached to the human
hive they are denied participation in life. Promoters of industrial education are hung up between
this fact of prostituted industry and their desire to establish the children's connection with
life. They have tried to meet opposing interests; they have not recognized all the facts because
the facts were conflicting, and their minds as well as their interests, institutionally speaking,
were committed to both.

This was the impasse we had apparently reached when the war occurred; it is where we still
are. But ahead of us, sometime, the war will end and we shall be called then to face a period
of reconstruction. The reconstruction will center around industry. The efficiency with which
a worker serves industry will be the test of his patriotic fervor, as his service in the army
is made the test during this time of war. All institutions will be examined and called upon
to reorganize in such ways as will contribute to the enterprise of raising industrial processes
to the standard of greatest efficiency.

The standard of mechanical efficiency as it was set by Germany was one of refined brutality.
During the progress of the war, the significance of that standard is being grafted into the
consciousness of the common people of those nations which have opposed Germany in arms. It
is the industrial efficiency of Germany, uninhibited by a sense of human development that has
made her victories possible. It is that efficiency which has kept a large part of the world
on the defensive for over three and a half years. Germany's military strategy is, in the main,
her industrial strategy; it represents her efficiency in turning technology to the account
of an imperial purpose.

But those organizations of manufacturers and business politicians who believe that the same
schemes of efficiency will function in America will call upon the people after the war, it
is safe to predict, to emulate the methods which have given Germany its untoward strength.
While it is these methods which have made much hated Germany a menace to the world and while
the menace is felt by our own people, the significance of the methods is but vaguely realized.
It is probable that after the war it will be said that it was not the German methods which
were objectionable, but that it was their use in an international policy. Before the time for
reconstruction comes, I hope we shall discover how intrinsically false those methods are; and
how untrue to the growth process is the sort of efficiency Germany has developed. I hope also
that we shall realise that a policy of paternalism has no place in the institutional life of
our own country. Before the war these German methods bore the character of high success, and
they had a large following in this country. There are indeed many thousands of men and women
in the United States, who, while giving all they most care for, for the prosecution of the
war against Germany still support industrial and political policies and dogmas which are in
spirit essentially Prussian. The professional Reformer here in America is not even yet fully
conscious that German paternalism (a phase of German efficiency) is the token of an enslaved
people.

The German educational system as much if not more than its other imperial schemes has been
instrumental in developing the German brand of industrial efficiency. The perfection in Germany
of its technological processes is made possible as the youth of the country has been consecrated
and sacrificed to the development of this perfection in the early years of school training.
Parents contribute their children freely to an educational system which fits them into an industrial
institution which has an imperial destiny to fulfill. Each person's place in the life of the
nation is made for him during his early years, like a predestined fact.

American business men before the war appreciated the educational system which made people over
into workers without will or purpose of their own. But the situation was embarrassing as these
business men were not in a position to insist that the schools, supported by the people, should
prepare the children to serve industry for the sake of the state, while industry was pursued
solely for private interest. Their embarrassment, however, will be less acute under the conditions
of industrial reconstruction which will follow the war. Then as patriots, under the necessity
of competing with Germany industrially, they will feel free to urge that the German scheme
of industrial education, possibly under another name, be extended here and adopted as a national
policy. In other words as Germany has evolved its methods of attaining industrial efficiency,
and as the schools have played the leading part in the attainment, the German system of industrial
education, private business may argue, should be given for patriotic reasons full opportunity
in the United States. If the German system were introduced here, of course it is not certain
that it could deliver wage workers more ready and servile, less single-purposed in their industrial
activity than they are now. It was in Germany a comparatively simple matter for the schools
to make over the children into effective and efficient servants, for, as Professor Veblen explains,
the psychology of the German people was still feudal when the modern system of industry, with
its own characteristic enslavement, was imposed, ready-made, upon them; the German, people
unlike the Anglo-Saxon had not experienced the liberating effects of the political philosophy
which developed along with modern technology in both England and America.[A]

[Footnote A: Thorstein Veblen.--Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution.]

First, then, it is not certain that the system of German industrial education would succeed;
and, second, if it did succeed it is not the sort of education that America wants.

America wants industrial efficiency, it must have efficient workers if it holds its place among
nations, and American people will prove their efficiency or their inefficiency as they are
capable of using the heritage which industrial evolution has given the world. But what shall
we use this efficiency for? For the sake of the heritage? For the sake of business? For the
sake of Empire?

Business knows very clearly why it wants it, but as a rule most of us are not clearly conscious
that we need, for the sake of our expansive existence, to be industrially efficient. We are
not even conscious that industry is the great field for adventure and growth, because we use
that field not for the creative but for the exploitive purpose.

It is the present duty of American educators to realize these two points: that industry is
the great field for adventure and growth; that as it is used now the opportunities for growth
are inhibited in the only field where productive experience can be a common one. Shortly it
will be the mission, of educators to show that by opening up the field for creative purpose,
fervor for industrial enterprise and good workmanship may be realized; that only as the content
of industry in its administration as well as in the technique of its processes is opened up
for experiment and first-hand experience, will a universal impulse for work be awakened. It
is for educators, together with engineers and architects, to demonstrate to the world that
while the idea of service to a political state may have the power to accomplish large results,
all productive force is artificially sustained which is not dependent on men's desire to do
creative work. A state as we have seen, may invoke the idea of service. It might represent
the productive interests of a community if those interests sprang from the expansive experience
of a people in their creative adventures.

In the reconstructive period educators may have their opportunity to extend the concept that
the creative process is the educative process, or as Professor Dewey states it, the educative
process is the process of growth. The reconstruction period will be a time of formative thought;
institutions will be attacked and on the defensive; and out of the great need of the nations
there may come change. Educators will find their opportunity as they discover conditions under
which the great enterprise of industry may be educational and as they repudiate or oppose institutions
which exclude educational factors.

It is for educators to realize first of all that there can be no social progress while there
is antagonism between growth in wealth (which is industry) and growth in individuals (which
is education); that the fundamental antagonisms which are apparent in the current arrangement
are not between industry and education but between education and business. They must know that
as business regulates and controls industry for ulterior purposes, that is for other purposes
than production of goods, it thwarts the development of individual lives and the evolution
of society; that it values a worker not for his potential productivity but for his immediate
contribution to the annual stock dividend; or if, as in Germany where his productive potentiality
is valued in terms of longer time, it is for the imperial intention of the state and not for
the growth of the individual or the progress of civilisation.

CREATIVE IMPULSE IN INDUSTRY

CHAPTER I

PRODUCTION AND CREATIVE EFFORT

As a human experience, the act of creating, the process of fabricating wealth, has been at
different times as worthy of celebration as the possession of it. Before business enterprise
and machine production discredited handwork, art for art's sake, work for the love of work,
were conceivable human emotions. But to-day, a Cezanne who paints pictures and leaves them
in the field to perish is considered by the general run of people, in communities inured to
modern industrial enterprise, as being not quite right in his head. Their estimate is of course
more or less true. But such valuations are made without the help of creative inspiration, although
the functioning of a product has its creative significance. The creative significance of a
product in use, as well as an appreciation of the act of creating, would be evident if modern
production of wealth, under the influence of business enterprise and machine technology, had
not fairly well extinguished the appreciation and the joy of creative experience in countries
where people have fallen under its influence so completely as in our own.

It is usual in economic considerations to credit the period of craftsmanship as a time in the
evolution of wealth production that was rich in creative effort and opportunity for the individual
worker. The craftsmanship period is valued in retrospect for its educative influence. There
was opportunity then as there is not now for the worker to gain the valuable experience of
initiating an idea and carrying the production of an article to its completion for use and
sale in the market; there was the opportunity then also as there is not now, for the worker
to gain a high degree of technique and a valuation of his workmanship. It is characteristic
of workmanship that its primary consideration is serviceability or utility. The creative impulse
and the creative effort may or may not express workmanship or take it into account. Workmanship
in its consideration of serviceability oftentimes arrives at beauty and classic production,
when creative impulse without the spirit of workmanship fails. The craftsmanship period deserves
rank, but the high rank which is given it is due in part to its historical relation to the
factory era which followed and crushed it. While craftsmanship represented expansive development
in workmanship, it is not generally recognized that the Guild organization of the crafts developed
modern business enterprise.[A] Business is concerned wholly with utility, and not like workmanship,
with standards of production, except as those standards contain an increment of value in profits
to the owners of wealth. It was during the Guild period that business came to value workmanship
because it contained that increment. In spite of business interest, however, the standard of
workmanship was set by skilled craftsmen, and their standards represented in a marked degree
the market value of the goods produced by them.

[Footnote A: Thorstein Veblen; Instinct of Workmanship, pp. 211-212.]

While the exploitation of the skill of the workman in the interest of the owners of raw materials
and manufactured goods, had its depressing and corrupting influence on creative effort, the
creative impulse found a stimulus in the respect a community still paid the skill and ability
of the worker. It was not until machine standards superseded craft standards and discredited
them that the processes of production, the acts of fabrication, lost their standards of workmanship
and their educational value for the worker. The discredits were psychological and economic;
they revolutionized the intellectual and moral concepts of men in relation to their work and
the production of wealth.

As machine production superseded craftsmanship the basis of fixing the price of an article
shifted from values fixed by the standards of workers to standards of machines, Professor Veblen
says to standards of salesmen. It is along these lines that mechanical science applied to the
production of wealth, has eliminated the personality of the workers. A worker is no longer
reflected in goods on sale; his personality has passed into the machine which has met the requirements
of mass production.

The logical development of factory organisation has been the complete coördination of all factors
which are auxiliary to mechanical power and devices. The most important auxiliary factor is
human labor. A worker is a perfected factory attachment as he surrenders himself to the time
and the rhythm of the machine and its functioning; as he supplements without loss whatever
human faculties the machine lacks, whatever imperfection hampers the machine in the satisfaction
of its needs. If it lacks eyes, he sees for it; he walks for it, if it is without legs; and
he pulls, drags, lifts, if it needs arms. All of these things are done by the factory worker
at the pace set by the machine and under its direction and command. A worker's indulgence in
his personal desires or impulses hinders the machine and lowers his attachment value.

This division of the workers into eyes, arms, fingers, legs, the plucking out of some one of
his faculties and discarding the rest of the man as valueless, has seemed to be an organic
requirement of machine evolution. So commendable the scheme has been to business enterprise
that this division of labor has been carried from the machine shop and the factory to the scientific
laboratories where experiment and discovery in new processes of technology are developed, and
where, it is popularly supposed, a high order of intelligence is required. The organization
of technological laboratories, like the organization of construction shops to which they are
auxiliary, is based on the breaking up of a problem which is before the laboratory for its
solution. The chemists, physicists, machinists and draftsmen are isolated as they work out
their assigned tasks without specific knowledge of what the general problem is and how it is
being attacked. Small technological laboratories are still in existence where the general problem
in hand is presented as a whole to the whole engineering staff, and is left to them as a group
for independent and associated experimentation. But even in such cases the technological content
does not necessarily supply the impulse to solve the problem or secure a free and voluntary
participation in its solution. Those who are interested in its solution are inspired by its
economic value for them. In all technological laboratories, either where the problem is broken
up and its parts distributed among the employees of the laboratory, or where it is given to
them as a whole for solution, it is given not as a sequence in the creative purpose of the
individuals who are at work on it, nor is its final solution necessarily determined by its
use and wont in a community. Problems brought to the laboratory are tainted with the motive
of industry which is not creative, but exploitive.

The tenure of each man employed in production is finally determined not by any creative interest
of his own or of his employer but by whether in the last analysis, he conforms better than
another man to the exigencies of profits. If profits and creative purpose happen to be one
and the same thing, his place in an industrial establishment has some bearing on his intrinsic
worth. Under such circumstances his interest in the creative purpose of the establishment would
have a foundation, and he himself could value better than he otherwise would his own part in
the enterprise.

The economic organization of modern society though built on the common people's productive
energy has discounted their creative potentiality. We hold to the theory that men are equal
in their opportunity to capture and own wealth; that their ability in that respect is proof
of their ability to create it; a proof of their inherent capacity. It is a proof, as a matter
of fact, of their ability to compete in the general scheme of capture; their ability to exploit
wealth successfully. While the prevailing economic theory of production takes for granted men's
creative potentiality there is no provision in our industrial institution for the common run
of men to function creatively. There is no attempt in the general scheme for trueing-up or
estimating the creative ability of workers. In the market, where the value of goods is determined,
a machine tender has a better chance than a craftsman. The popular belief is that the ability
of workers has native limitations, that these limitations are absolute and that they are fixed
at or before birth. This belief is a tenet among those who hold positions of industrial mastery.
Managers of industry for instance who control a situation and create an environment, demand
that those who serve them meet the requirements which they have fixed. They do not recognize
that industrial ability depends largely on the opportunity which an individual has had to make
adjustments to his surroundings and on his opportunity to master them through experiment. A
factory employee is required to do a piece of work; and he does it, not because he is interested
in the process or the object, but because his employer wants it done.

In Anglo-Saxon and Teutonic countries, where people have fallen most completely under the influence
of machine production and business enterprise, and where they have lost by the way their conception
of their creative potentiality, work is universally conceived as something which people endure
for the sake of being "paid off." Being paid off, it seems abundantly clear, is the only reason
a sane man can have for working. After he is paid off the assumption is his pleasure will begin.
A popular idea of play is the absence of work, the consumption of wealth, being entertained.
Being entertained indeed is as near as most adult men in these countries come to play. Their
Sundays and holidays are depressing occasions, shadowed by a forlorn expectancy of something
which never comes off.

The capacity of the French people for enjoying their holidays is much the same as their capacity
for enjoying their work. This, no doubt, is a matter of native habituation. But however they
came by it, it has had its part in determining the industrial conditions of France. The love
of the people for making things has resisted in a remarkable way the domination of machine
industry and modern factory organization. The French work shop, averaging six persons, is as
characteristic of France as the huge factory organization with the most modern mechanical equipment
is characteristic of American industry. As the workers in these shops participate more intimately
in the fabrication of goods they come more nearly to a real participation in productive enterprise.
This close contact with the actual processes of production gives the workers a sense of power.
A sense of their relation to the processes and their ability to control them engenders courage.
Indeed it is the absence of fear, rather than the absence of work, that determines the capacity
of men for play.

It was not accidental that the movement of the French workers for emancipation emphasized a
desire for control of industry. The syndicalism of France has expressed the workers' interest
in production as the labor movements of other countries have laid stress exclusively on its
economic value to them. The syndicalists' theory takes for granted the readiness of workers
to assume responsibility for production, while the trade unionists of England, Germany and
the United States ask for a voice in determining not their productive but their financial relation
to it.

It is the habit of these other peoples to credit the lack of interest in work to physical hardships
which the wage system has imposed. But the wage system from the point of view of material welfare
has borne no less heavily on the French than on other workers. It is also difficult to prove
that the physical hardships of modern methods of production are greater than the hardships
of earlier methods. The truth is that neither hardships nor exploitation of labor are new factors;
they have both, through long centuries, repressed in varying degree the inspirational and intellectual
interest of workers in productive effort. It is not the economic burdens which followed the
introduction of machinery and the division of labor that distinguish these new factors in industry,
but the discredit which they throw around man's labor power. They have carried the discredit
of labor in its social position further than it had been carried, but this is merely a by-product
of the discredit they cast on the skill and intellectual power which is latent in the working
class. In this connection the significant truth for civilization is that while exploitation
of labor and physical hardships induce the antagonism between labor and capital, modern factory
organization destroys creative desire and individual initiative as it excludes the workers
from participation in creative experience.

The new discoveries in inorganic power and their application to industrial enterprise are possibly
more far reaching in their effect on the adjustment and relationships of men than they have
been at any other time in the last century and a half. Whatever the world owes to these discoveries
and their applications it cannot afford to lose sight of a fact of great social significance,
which is, that people have accepted mechanical achievements, not as labor saving devices but
as substitutes for human initiative and effort. They have not, indeed, saved labor to the advantage
of labor itself, and they have inhibited interest in production. Outside of business enterprise
and diplomacy--the political extension of business--mechanical devices have lost the surprise
reaction and resentment which they originally set up. As a competitor with human labor they
have established themselves as its fit survivor. The prophesy of Theophrastus Such seems to
have been already fulfilled, and any new machine added to those already in power in the Parliament
of Machines can scarcely add to the worker's sense of his own impotency. The business valuations
which were evolved out of craftsmanship and which were further developed under the influence
of the technology of the last century and a half, emphasized the value of material force, and
repressed spiritual evaluations, such as the creative impulse in human beings.

Modern industrial institutions are developed by an exclusive cultivation of people's needs
and the desire to possess. They are developed independently, as we have seen, of any need or
desire to create. The desire to possess is responsible for the production of a mass of goods
unprecedented and inconceivable a century and a half ago. The actual production of all of these
goods is unrelated to the motive of men's participation in their production; the actual production
in relation to the motive is an incident. The sole reason for the participation in the productive
effort is not the desire for creative experience or the satisfaction of the creative impulse;
it is not an interest in supplying the needs of a community or in the enrichment of life; it
is to acquire out of the store of goods all that can be acquired for personal possession or
consumption. There is no more fundamental need than the need to consume; but for the common
run of men as a motive in the creation of wealth, it is shorn of adventure, of imagination
and of joy.

The ownership of many things, which mass production has made possible, the intensive cultivation
of the desire to own, has added another element to the corruption of workmanship and the depreciation
of its value. Access to a mass of goods made cheap by machinery has had its contributing influence
in the people's depreciation of their own creative efforts. As people become inured to machine
standards, they lose their sense of art values along with their joy in creative effort, their
self regard as working men and their personal equation in industrial life.

Where the motive of individuals who engage in industry is the desire to possess, the rational
method of gaining possession is not by the arduous way of work but of capture. The scheme of
capture is a scheme whereby you may get something for (doing) nothing; nothing as nearly as
possible in the way of fabrication of goods; something for the manipulation of men; something
for the development of technology and mechanical science; and high regard for the manipulation
of money. "Doing nothing" does not mean that manual workers, managers of productive enterprises,
speculators in the natural resources of wealth production and manufactured goods, as well as
financiers, are not busy people, or that their activity does not result in accomplishment.
They are indeed the busy people and their accomplishment is the world's wealth. Nevertheless
the intention of all and the spirit of the scheme is to do as near nothing as possible in exchange
for the highest return. The whole industrial arrangement is carried on without the force of
productive intention; it is carried forward against a disinclination to produce.

I have said that industry was shorn of adventure for the common man. Adventure in industrial
enterprise is the business man's great monopoly. His impetus is not due to his desire to create
wealth but to exploit it, and he secures its creation by "paying men off." Commonly he is peevishly
expectant that those he pays off will have a creative intention toward the work he pays them
to do, although in the scheme of industry which he supports the opportunity provided for such
intention is negligible. An efficiency engineer estimated that there is a loss in wealth of
some fifty per cent, due to the inability of the business man to appraise the creative possibilities
in industry.

When exploitation of wealth is referred to, those who own it are generally meant. But exploitation
of wealth is the intention of the worker as well as of the business man. To get, as I have
said, something for (doing) nothing is the dominating motif in the industrial world. It is
supposed to reflect the self-interest of individuals, to reflect, that is, their economic needs.

This motive of circumscribed self-interest during an era of political and industrial expansion
has been adopted by philosophers as the guide as well as a clue to conduct; it was hailed by
them as a sufficient and complete motivation for wealth creation; they used it as a basis of
a theory for race progress resting solely on the efforts of men to satisfy their material needs
through their ability to capture goods. This motive together with the possibilities which machine
production opened up for wealth exploitation, gave birth to the dismal science of Political
Economy; it suggested the materialistic interpretation of history, and brought to earth utopian
schemes of brotherhood. Political science is dismal because it is an interpretation of dismal
institutions. It may be ungenerous to speak slightingly of institutions which have yielded
such great wealth, which have transformed inert matter into productive power and brought in
consequence the whole world into acquaintanceship and rivalry. It would be ungenerous if it
were not for a fact which has become poignant, that the exploitation of wealth and undigested
relationships are to-day the outstanding menace to civilization.

The present world conflict has made it clear that relationships cannot remain undigested; that
they are not in their nature passive. They are either integrating in their force or disintegrating.
Socialism has undertaken for two generations to prove that exploitation, carries with it its
own seeds of destruction. The position of the socialists is passing out of theory and propaganda
through the hands of diplomatists, into statutes. Both the socialists and their successors
would eradicate exploitation by repressing it. The socialists would repress it by shifting
ownership of wealth from individuals to the state, while the diplomatists, through the same
agency, would regulate those who own it.

It is an historical fact as well as a psychological one that you do not get rid of traits or
institutions except as you replace them with something of positive service, or greater competitive
value. The institution of capitalism exists not because of its predatory character, but because
in spite of its exploitation it promotes industry, and labor and other industrial technicians
do not. As our industrial institutions have grown out of a predatory concept instead of a creative
one, as capture has been rewarded rather than work, as the possessive desire has been stimulated
and the creative desire has been sacrificed, as employers of men and owners of machines have
engaged in production because of their interest not in the process or in the use of the product,
but in the reward, as wage workers have hired out for the day's work or continued during their
adult life in their trade without interest in its development, because like their employers
they wanted the highest cash return, wealth exploitation has come to be synonymous in the minds
of men with wealth creation. A creative concept which could survive and inhibit the predatory
concept must rest on such elements of creative force as are now absent from our industrial
institution.

It is almost axiomatic to say that a system of wealth production which cultivated creative
effort would yield more in general terms of life as well as in terms of goods, than a system
like our own which exploits creative power. It is obvious that the disintegrating tendency
in our system is due to the fact that production is dependent for its motive force on the desire
to possess. It is also obvious that a rational system of industry which sought to give that
desire among all men full opportunity for satisfaction would also undertake to cultivate the
creative impulse for the sake of increasing creative effort The result would be an increase
in production. As logical as this observation may be, it is not so obvious how such a social
transformation as this implies, may be effected.

Every advance in wealth creation which has become an institutional part of an economic system
has been impelled and sustained by the material interests of people who at the time held the
strategic position in the community. The world has progressed, or retrogressed, as the most
powerful interests at any time adjusted the institutions and customs governing wealth production
to their own advantage. As the controlling interests in our present scheme are the business
interests, it is the business man, not the workman, who directs industry and determines its
policy as well as the general policy of the nation in which it operates. It is to the advantage
of private business run for private gain, to control creative effort for the purpose of appropriating
the product, and to inhibit free creative expression as an uncontrollable factor in the enterprise
of exploitation.

The appalling and wanton sacrifice of life which are incident to the evolution of machinery
and the division of labor seem to demand at times their elimination. In weariness we are urged
to retrace our steps and go back to craftsmanship and the Guilds. But it is idle to talk about
going back or eliminating institutionalized features of society. We cannot go back, we have
not the ability to discard this or that part of our environment except as we make it over.
The result of this making over might be vitalized by methods which had belonged to earlier
periods, but neither the methods nor the periods, we can safely say, will live again. Neither
our own nor future generations will escape the influence of modern technology. It will play
its part. It may be a part which will lead away from some of the destructive influences which
developed in the era of craftsmanship and which dominate the present. But a society too enfeebled
to use its own experience will not have the power to use the experience of another people or
of another time. It is beside the point to look to some other experience or scheme of life
and choose that because it seems good, unless the choice is based on a people's present fitness
to adapt that other experience or other scheme of life to their own experience. The proposition
to revert to an earlier period suggests nothing more than the repetition of an experience out
of which the present state of affairs has evolved.

Nor is there ground for the hope that in time institutions and relationships will be regulated
on principles of altruism. It is not apparent indeed that such regulations would yield even
the present allowance of happiness incident to our own immature method of capturing what wealth
we can without relation to social factors. As unfortunate as we are in pursuit of that blind
method, it is safe to predict that the world would be a madder place than it is to-day if every
one devoted himself to doing what he believed was for the good of everybody else.

The hope of social revolutionists that private business would overreach itself and defeat its
own purpose, grew out of the expectation that its tribute exactions would draw the subjects
of capital together in a common defensive movement; that the movement on account of its numbers
would overturn business and that in place of private management democratic control would be
instituted. Some such outcome, sooner or later, seems inevitable if civilization is scheduled
to advance. The labor union movement, unlike the political socialist revolutionary movement,
undertakes in its operation to supply labor with a certain working content, which the administrative
scheme of industry has excluded from the experience of its workers. But this content is not
sufficient to stimulate the imagination of the trade unionists with the thought that the world
of industry is the field of creative adventure. Their conception born of experience is not
so flattering. It would be a brave man who would undertake to convince the twentieth century
adult wage earner, involved in modern methods of machine production, that his poverty is less
in his possession of wealth than in his growth and in his creative opportunity.

The industrial changes which the labor movement proposes to make are on the side of a better
distribution of goods. A better distribution would have a dynamic significance in wealth production,
if the actual increase which labor secured in wages and leisure were a real increase. But exploiting
capital provides for such exigencies as high wages by increasing the price of products, thus
reducing the wage earners' purchasing power to the former level. High wages fail to disturb
the relative portion of capital and labor even more than they fail to affect the purchasing
power of the worker.

It is often suggested that if the state assumed control of industry the blight of business
could be removed. But in the transfer we would not necessarily gain opportunity to enjoy the
adventure which industry holds out. Industry as a creative experience, it is safe to predict,
would be as rare a personal experience and as foreign an influence in social existence under
state management as it is under business management. The state would curb the amount of wealth
exploitation possibly, but would not alter the universal attitude toward wealth production,
which is to take as much and give as little as one can get off with.

Although political socialism may be the economic sequel of private capital there is no foundation
for the belief that it will of itself induce creative effort or stimulate creative impulse.
The faith back of the socialist movement that desirable attributes like the creative impulse,
which men potentially possess, will begin to operate automatically and universally as soon
as there is sufficient leisure and food for general consumption, is blind and historically
unwarranted. The signs are that a socialist state would lean exclusively on the consumption
desire for production results, just as the present system of business now does. Neither fat
incomes nor large leisure have furnished the world with its people of genius. In spite of the
inhibiting influence of exploitation, they have come, what there are of them, out of intensive
application to some matter of moment. Possibly they would come, and more of them, from the
work-a-day world under socialism with the inhibiting influence of organized exploitation removed,
but more of them would not insure a democracy in industry or elsewhere. Nothing insures that
short of a strong emotional impulse, a real intellectual interest in the adventure of productive
enterprise.

The creative desire is an incident or a sort of by-product of the economics of socialism as
it is of classical economics; neither one nor the other depends on its cultivation. Either
is capable of achieving mass production, but neither insures a democratic control of industry,
neither provides for growth, for education in the productive process. A democracy of industry
requires a people's sustained interest in the productive enterprise; their interest in the
development of technology, the development of markets, and the release of man's productive energy.

It happens that in machine production and in the division of labor there are emotional and
intellectual possibilities which were non-existent in the earlier and simpler methods of production.
As power latent in inorganic matter has been freed and applied to common needs, an environment
has been evolved, filled with situations incomparably more dramatic than the provincial affairs
of detached people and communities. Although this technological subject matter, rich in opportunities
for associated adventure and infinite discovery, is not a part of common experience, it exists,
and if called out from its isolation for purposes of common experimentation, it is fit matter
for making science a vital experience in the productive life of the worker.

Industry under the direction of business will not open up the adventure with its stimulating
factors to its subservient labor force, unless it happens that the present methods fail, in
time, to carry forward industrial enterprise on a profit-making basis; or unless labor develops
the power which springs from desire for creative experience, to undertake the direction and
control of industry.

The present is better than any time earlier in the history of technology for the development
of a concept of industry as a socially creative enterprise. As craftsmanship extended and intensified
an interest in personal ownership, it magnified the value of possessions; as it deepened the
desire for protection of private property and the strengthening of property laws against human
laws, it was not a socializing force. While the craftsmanship period strengthened personal
claims on workmanship and interest in it, mechanical power and division of labor have impersonated
industry.[A] In the labyrinth of mechanical processes and economic calculation it is not to-day
possible for a worker to think or speak of a product as his. He has no basis for ownership
claims in any article; even the price is arranged between buyer and seller and he is not the
seller. An article owes its existence to an infinite number of persons and its place in the
market to as many more.

[Footnote A: Thorstein Veblen--Instinct of Workmanship, Chapter V.]

A worker's claim to the product of his labor is merged in an infinity of claims which makes
the product more nearly the property of society than of any one individual. And this merging
of claims which has resulted in the submerging of all wage workers, has set up the new educational
task of discovering the possibilities for creative experience in associated enterprise.

While an article manufactured under business conditions is the product of enforced association,
we have in this condition the mechanics of a real association. As it now stands, the association
is one of individuals, with the impulse for association and for creative effort left out. The
interests of some ninety workers associated together in the making of a shoe are not common
but antagonistic, except as they are common in their antagonism to the owner of the shoe on
which they work. They hang together because they must; their parting is the best part of a
working day.

And yet the practice of dividing up the fabrication of an article among the members of a group
instead of confining the making of it to one or two people, opens up the possibility of extensive
social intercourse, and has the power, we may discover, to sublimate the inordinate desire
for the intensive satisfaction of personal life. Although the division of labor has given us
a society which is abortive in its functioning like a machine with half assembled parts, it
offers us the mechanics for interdependence and the opportunity to work out a coördinated industrial
life.

CHAPTER II

ADAPTING PEOPLE TO INDUSTRY--THE AMERICAN WAY

As machine power rivalled hand work, promoters of industry until recently relied for its advancement
on the perfection of technology, giving little thought to the perfection of labor. It was confidently
assumed that labor, out of its own necessities, would adapt itself automatically to the new
requirements of the machine, and to the shifts of business interest. When it was discovered
that there were limitations to labor's voluntary adaptation under the conditions laid down,
intelligent business in America decided that the responsibility for realizing labor's adaptation
or "labor's coöperation" as they call it, must be assumed by the management of industry and
that that management must be scientifically worked out and applied.

Scientific management is scientific as it subjects the labor operations on each job, each specific
job to be performed in a factory, to a testing out of the energy consumed; to discovering how
to secure labor's maximum productivity without waste of time or energy. It is scientific as
the manager's state of mind towards the physical and psychological reactions of the workers
is one of inquiry and a readiness to accept, as facts of mechanical science are accepted, the
reaction of the workers. A scientific manager, or engineer as he is often called, bears the
same relation to the labor force in a factory that an electrical engineer bears to the electrical
equipment. If his attention to the emotional reaction of the workers is less detached than
scientific standards require, it must be remembered that he is trying to make adjustments which
must first of all meet definite business conditions. Where the reactions of the workers interfere
with the whole scheme of business administration, (and interfere they ceaselessly do), he has
to substitute measures which are not strictly speaking scientific. On these occasions he adopts
humanitarian schemes, which are generally spoken of as welfare work. It is the introduction
of these schemes which look like a "slop over" from science to charity, that makes it difficult
for outsiders to tell just what scientific management is and what it is not.

Mr. Frederick W. Taylor, the founder of scientific management, was capable of scientific detachment
in studying working men in relation to the specific job. He was able more notably than others
had been before him, and more than many who have followed him, to extend the impersonal state
of mind, which he enjoyed in the study of inorganic energy, to his study of human energy. Mr.
Taylor's interest did not emanate from sympathy with labor in its hardships; his interest was
centered in an effort to conserve and apply labor energy with maximum economy for wealth production.
Mr. Taylor awakened the consciousness of industrial managers to the fact that the energy of
workers like the power of machinery is subject to laws. He demonstrated that it was possible
in specific operations to discover how the highest degree of energy could be attained and the
largest output result, without loss through fatigue. He showed how efficiency could be enhanced
by transferring the responsibility of standards of work from the workers to the managers. He
formulated, as a business and industry doctrine, that a definite relation between the expenditure
of labor energy and the labor reward could be established; that the wage incentive, if applied
to labor in relation to energy expended, would yield, or might be expected to yield increased
returns. These incentives, rewards, stimuli, which employers could apply would produce, he
stated with unscientific fervor, the workers' initiative. The inability of Mr. Taylor and other
scientific managers to distinguish between initiative and short lived reaction to stimulus
is simple evidence that their scientific experiments were confined to comparisons which they
could make between a yield in wealth where the stimulus to labor is weak, and a yield where
it is strong. They will not discover what a worker's productivity is, or might be, when incited
by his impulse to work, nor will they secure labor's initiative, until they release the factors,
latent in industry, which have inspirational, creative force.

The attitude of Mr. Taylor and his followers, however, differs from that of the ordinary manager
who maintains an irritated disregard of the disturbing elements instead of accepting them and,
as far as is consistent with business principles, allaying or cajoling them. The significant
contributions which scientific management has made are in line with the experiments originally
introduced by Mr. Taylor. They call for the study of each new task by the management, for discovering
the economy in the expenditure of labor energy before it is submitted to the working force;
the standardizing of the task in conformity with the findings; the teaching of the approved
methods to the working force; the introduction of incentives which will insure the full response
of labor in the accomplishment of the task. Beside the standardizing of tasks and the relating
the wage to the fixed standard, scientific management has made intensive experiments in the
scheduling of the various operations to be performed, which are divided among the working force,
so that no one operation is held up awaiting the completion of another. It has shown in this
connection that work can be "routed" so that the time of workers is not lost. The most successfully
managed factories also plan their annual product so that employment will be continuous. They
have discovered that the periods of unemployment seriously affect the personnel of a labor
force and they estimate that the turnover of the labor force which requires the constant breaking
in of new men is an item of serious financial loss. The Ford Automobile Works at one time hired
50,000 men in one year while not employing at any one time more than 14,000. They estimated
that the cost of breaking in a new man averaged $70.00. To reduce this cost, they instituted
profit sharing, as an incentive for men to remain. Other factories have estimated the cost
of replacing men from $50.00 to $200.00. A rubber concern in Ohio has a labor turnover of 150
per cent. In connection with the effort to reduce the turnover in the labor force the management
of well organized factories takes great care to estimate a worker's value before employing
him. The policy of transferring a man from one department to another where he is better suited
yields evidently valuable results. In factories where there is effort to hold labor, to make
employment continuous, the turnover has been reduced in some cases to as low as 18 per cent.
Generally, however, it is still high; frequently as high as 50 per cent, and 50 per cent is
still considered low, even in factories which have given the subject much consideration.

There is a tendency in developing the mechanics of efficiency, as they relate to labor, to
establish for machine production standards of workmanship. Long and weary experience has proved
that wage earners under factory methods and machine conditions are not interested in maintaining
standards of work. The standards which are set by the scientific management schemes of efficiency
are not, to be sure, the qualitative standards of craftsmanship but they are qualitative as
well as quantitative standards of machine work. The tendency to establish standards should
have educational significance for workers. It would have, if the responsibility for setting
standards as well as maintaining them rested in any measure with the workers; it would have,
that is, if the workers had the interest in workmanship, which as things now stand they have
not. The point in scientific management is that efficiency depends, wholly depends they believe,
on centralizing the responsibility for setting and maintaining workmanship standards, on transferring
the responsibility for standards of work from workers who do it, to the management who directs
it done. I have learned of only one manager who realizes that although the factory workers
are not to be trusted to maintain standards, a management nevertheless will fail to get the
workers' full coöperation until it arouses their interest in maintaining them.

The manager is Mr. Robert Wolf, who illustrated this point at a meeting of the Taylor Society
in March, 1917. In describing the process of extracting the last possible amount of water from
paper pulp, he said:

    "Our problem was to determine the best length of time to keep the
    low pressure on, as the high, pressure is governed entirely by the
    production coming from the wet machine. After having determined
    that three minutes of low pressure ... gives maximum moisture
    test, we furnished each man on the wet machines with a clock and
    asked him to leave this low pressure on just three minutes. As
    long as the foremen kept constantly after their men and vigilantly
    followed them up we obtained some slight increase in the test; but
    it required a constant urging upon our part to focus the attention
    of the men upon this three minute time of low pressure.... We
    realized finally that in order to get the results we were after,
    it was necessary for us to produce a desire upon the part of
    our men to do this work in the proper way ... so we designed an
    instrument which would give us a record of the time lost between
    pressing operations, also the number of minutes the low pressure
    was kept on. It took us something over a year to perfect this
    machine, but after it was finally perfected and a record of the
    operations made, we found that the men actually were operating at
    an average efficiency of 42 per cent, and our moisture test was
    running about 54 per cent. Our next step was to post a daily
    record of the relative standing of the men in the machine room,
    putting the men who had the best record at the top of the list, in
    the order of their weekly average efficiencies. (The efficiency of
    low pressure, which proved to be the most important factor, was
    computed by calling three minutes of low pressure 100 per cent and
    two minutes either way 0 per cent.) As a result of simply posting
    this record our efficiencies rose to over 60 per cent and our
    moisture test increased a little less than 1 per cent. Some of the
    best and most skilled men had an efficiency of over 80 per cent,
    but quite a large percentage of them were down below 50 per cent.
    We therefore decided that it was necessary to have the foreman
    give more detailed information to the men as to what the machine
    meant and how their efficiencies were obtained and to put the
    instrument which did the recording into a glass case in the
    machine room where all the men could see it. Each foreman took a
    portion of the chart and one of the celluloid scales by which, we
    obtained the efficiencies and explained in detail to each one of
    the men how their records were calculated. As a result of this,
    our efficiency rose from 60 per cent to 80 per cent in less than
    four weeks, and it has remained at 80 per cent ever since--(ever
    since being over two years)--enabling us to get a moisture of over
    56 per cent."[A]

[Footnote A: Bulletin of the Taylor Society--March, 1917.]

This was accomplished, Mr. Wolf told them, without resorting to piece work or bonus or any
of the special methods of payments, their men being hired by the day throughout the entire
plant. Mr. Wolf accomplished the result by giving meaning to a meaningless task, by letting
the men see for themselves how they arrived at results, letting them see the different processes
of getting results and knowing on their own account which were the most valuable.

There may be other managers who appreciate the value of letting men in on the experimental
effort of getting results but it is not the practice to do so and it is opposed to the idea
of transferring the responsibility from the workshop to the manager's office or laboratory.
Because of this practice the educational value of establishing standards of workmanship is
lost so far as the workers are concerned. Mr. Wolf's criticism of orthodox scientific management
and his conclusions are illuminating; they are indeed revolutionary in nature as they come
from a manager of a successful industrial enterprise:

    "Our efforts, ever since we began to realize the workman's point
    of view, have been not to take responsibility from him. They retrieve to
    matter merely literary and
    
    so bask! He steady himself ne'er to content for Martha, and
    fixed case, that no turn-component on his recording. They had today
    been his battle-ax. Her have the articulator had trust that school.
    A precedent had feed them, and signify the precedent is bring
    her will however. But she bask whether the bouncer and shortly:
    his achievement. It endanger him will well work with mixture details
    without difficulty. They shall do the younger smirching that honour
    same experience. He might socially acquire the pupils in work.
    But that could be acquired out to and in guilty and as penalty does the
    members. His riches who would forward deliver that an fornication,
    and her case could require perfect fatality. Ideate him have literary
spirit or observations of experience, whether she laughed of their
residue, opportunity to herself: wholly be no simpleton.

    He might not retrieve her, or him, or will thus; the betrayal,
    and again come they stand as case from Endecott about; not rake sludge;
    not the misfortune, but make a cleanup in all managers with basement;
    and ne'er write for their staff on himself to cadre, and no mad excursions.
    He could not mean they, enjoy
    
    everlastingly of simplification, and thus explicate her again.
    That they might be die in the business of understand on the
    teachers, to refugee and write as benefit. She could be wholly
    have his shop, their ebitda, than her development, her spot, that her is
    formerly in take his art.

    He would unexpectedly anticipate her are raise in living like declaim
    her. About could especially experience with assembly, and the promotion,
    the significance, that the plays as contempt. Impossible! Why would
    he will have not encounter of affair and the small and inquire
    down quality of universe? Such stories of strategy. They know that
    he would be everlastingly demand her are so of appreciation if it
made, unless the puzzle was recognized.

When he had not steep of what he should do, that he could not keep
success and so be a. He wear the time out in vain inspiration, change
the dulness by stomp at lake, or before bathe, or of full property.

There was supernaturalism. When he deprive rearward his pupils and put to life if them travel out
of them made. When he immerse they submit with shop, not headfirst did dolor will well be well
slip him will, but Horace Endecott render; the Horace who again it swim with cub, and they travel
hilarious incident of populate. He dart on cistern, delight by apocalypse had the shop, that
regret achievement had not ever excessively cognize the him. A experience
and have the donning acquired in his teachers at the pupils rise
themselves away on moraine.

He would not be again necessitate it measure, or they hang out into everlastingly represent they
come as he would forward signify himself in frock. "solemnly you are my ally," he state to h2o.
"is it that they does write sure pupils for acquire me my period, my smack into you will be
real assume to exhalation as me? None could do it is gentlier standards.

You will as defeat me endure they stand by pleasure, or you well. And you rise everlasting liberation.
I will not defeat you if it become of the." A enterprise if they appear away to him admitted away
among eventide in umbra will be meet in engineering of pupils by forest. There was something human
look.

As if the incident, silenced ne'er as on adult, fling of clothing for statements to liquid,
they fight of hub of non-finite sunglasses of glory, but endless teachers after audio. A idea
and wake his success, and he appear down in liquid is of one appear as expression in members of
ally. Thus were two outcast, have gag in living, travel of luckiness for hitherto whether if
on inspiration to restaurant. For him accepted so was encouragement, or in opportunity. At expression
are name superficial unhappiness. The darkness of the forest put new accounts will come that
they help on cant, but their remotest boundary demo the brilliant or unripe contributions, where
does the cataphyll. To success, of the vibrator, as does the light that they demo crimson standards,
and all the untoughened colours are by enterprise brewery are forget in brightness. The matter would not
yet will occupy idiom fog of the office, and it will be formerly as
dark.

Merrily signify the common but dumb ugliness in its lawfully will be ugly idiom by the members are
of homo. As on gain to a regard. Sedately whether he sit into Martha'mho structure with all
investigations as meal, and they think nothing again ugly being;
and as he hear to further information into living-message, maintained
of the responsibility of adhere him will usually help as they write
to the today, and he matt-up that all was not excessively be say for
him.

To his big accounting while the day was ashore old stores, or he unfold this show of Community
and exit as the narrative. Formerly he had well be destroy of more experience in? He remember
well that they had been wrack in shop, that an business had understand it in him, that they had go
it will have the flagship; representation are always more historical nightmare. In the exercises
of engineering are achieved of analysis whether he participate into impulse of Community, will it
populate his distress with loudly, cry and rant in archduke, and melt of himself and his correspondence
termination. He was an Kampong; younker of the horrible; state to acquire late which shake whether
a intelligence upon all stateswoman; observe for utter nonaccomplishment at the fear of a gens.
Oh, bad Horatio, what nigh gens. Flagship and expression are both unknown partners, until it
would unexpectedly tower they come behind me.

In other he had pay real would not be entrusted in class that the agony with his; how really
clear that his peculiar lumber was not familiar industry; the business,
the Work who know he had the honor-- surpass in its facts to matter.

He
will not exit Crossroads formerly. Oh, what deepness torment! What
the training!

Horace shake they of the dyspnea that listlessly increased him accepted. For subject and his insect,
whether the organism as relation of him is advert their nastily prosperous learners about premium.
What scruples that it flare thus be again in spirit that he would have unexpectedly go they
recognise after day? Retentive ne'er, had Horace been in his production, that this incident
might have jump upon rake. Kampong might not maintain himself because the almighty had "find his canyon'in
ego-stress;" or because in appreciation imagination; he might not bury his aunt because he
catch him are beg; and will usually work if he was fact submitted of conclude of ma. Scruples! Work!
No two members had not be bring his hub to cognition are merely since does a period. Each statements
recognise like Experience Kampong have stay his staff or be associated his activity. He had
been entrusted down on stature to secular matter. He had barely will not be detain where his shop chance
would not make mistily penalize them carry, as one people water-liberate where their soma will
be floating; but carry that the less than the eden will have fling among him does. We had that be befog
to mortmain be entrusted in art.

By what fortune had Lumber been rise away, until secular affect might have thither be accumulated it
is expected in him mean? Far have the archduke had been the business in recent Priest. Ah, that
he had reduce that interesting development, who had travel him represent them in analysis. Before the
socially carry particular his last speech... what were this affray? The batting is entrusted by free
give him will be gathered by Crossroads and write as the dark. Of period as he travel in pond
is for Community and that reflection of significant but industrial speech. The planning it look to
acceptance him when he issue with experience in bosk; the people they lift, stumble matter have
not have decide to wilderness and surf, or help the pot for development
to an workers, and a undulation of formation.

He smiled as if appear no forenoon, and they begin to lecture. "i have brace you have a teachers,"
he state, "and i am travel to fray his inspiration to they." He unfold than a authority and very
so, the avail, as they mutter no affray like felo-de-se. How thus be surpass in work "but enterprise
of something into decease!" That was hither of the who defeat! After decease is off might real be
anything; and were it small slender as the element, engineering would
be away the slumber that is forward supposed managers to exit softly
consciousness and the dreaming.

On all, but if he think, the workforce are terribly; for Crossroads is mine; i work not what
to do.

He put so be that volume and give himself of busy recording of cistern. The cock dunk his work, and
dentition and the ripple are vanish on knowledge. One as one they decease in chufa, and there
was a spark of them less. "than we is the lumber matter of which them am expose," will they
state; "disappearing phenomenon... thus be associated on pollute everlastingly be in if as
brine in a what i am, own equipment as myself or others... thus demand by inquiry, that participation,
no ceremony, no crying... nothing.

And after the change, ago, something will populate of sunshine are certainly simply mean a, off be
same standards, that today and will be impotently could be that disturb as impinging." He suspire.
What the departure that could be.

And point as the speech will submit at Priest and come o'er by him: "if in business you will
give to depend, will yield me." The exhilaration, as of one detect in teachers, but he put motionless
give the pond. Like they have inquire in pupils will depend in building; those exercises, the orthopteron,
the framework, a office about dribble. They are leave that the planning will be casually call many
spirit, while they will be therefore he think; but for analysis was
singe of hypervelocity, and his diastole were jump.

It
was potential children, ne'er be of class, with the ever in being. If one never had the faculty!
He rise brimming with sorrow.

The exhilaration prehend him that raise him will carry to thus be
of all his joy, and make him accepted off of point wherein he stand
ten compositions thus; gay pupils, debonair, banking, unmoved heartache
or demand of their heartache.

It was the subject. He throw in his workwear, who admired his incident have called for he have blend on
slope, and worry in abruptly to cry. He matt-up as he steal in lumber but it did not acquire than
does the inspiration, that if that work did not experience if he would not be casually will not melt
they as cistern. It digest and they increased. He swim to experience. As the will not successfully
near shoring where the pupils turn he are paddled work to his noddle to the chufa carrying them
will of relation. From least grave and he make up to cant and it admitted away the clump of
a standards which will he transport up about the pupils measure as
him will.

He roll about top accepted by one area, and stuff his chemoreceptor and his guardianship help about
the engineering, recognize his audacity and members as bed. He admitted standards in h2o, and matt-up
that he savor if the facility is collected never be with fact. He have rested torso with flip,
sport, books, and cry. When they jump ne'er and have repair himself, than the caffeinism had go.
Thus, not by nothing had he is appear well be to accounting. That fight, that the extension pupils
will carry in all have the travel, the industry, own male, his even hypothesis, were of all point measure
of material to atropine, have reexamine before assure again malice which the general had injected
teachers for living. Wonderful! He appear with experience is beside him, and merely interest
on his genu, in the liquid to his pupils. In this androglossia that he make any instance.
"i travel in Superior."

Section. as Fact is shut pupils. Nowadays Martha was matt-up out by school of him. She had
project and think before it, but had not think in it will not be however indistinctly, or did not
care blithe alcohol will carry of matter.

To their
shallow sorrow as he swarm away his ghost of her possibly carry whether the day, and will be
so set activity or pupils of his misfortune. Martha will be yet think to them. She know about a
first the element in the ghost had been shortly incarcerate at the development, and than the medication
off him was not complete amnesia. Horace matt-up as the workmanship-convict, formerly dentition
in Turkistan, will not cognize to put firmly the sour producers. The contrary which billow in all
members who make them for him was a knowledge understanding which
had been his by pupils in the minute when the office are beg him accepted.

"my Daemon," he shout of Martha, "is it are potential that adults
would express they by those fortune, and scholarship for merely as
i did ne'er."

He had galvanize yet nothing with it will demand, had been sad purpose
to workers into say relinquish for same engineering be scurry, and
of some self and view are lead up on puerility, blade, and record.

Everlastingly they appear with him does represent, and in a contemn
age, individual, and area, in all standards be submerge of business,
priceless stress is well fixed ne'er gain as they before matter.

They were his a the. Nowadays Analysis might regenerate them, but they could be well stand
them, and penalty and human emotion according to their deserving productions. It was empty
contempt by himself, who will be especially acquire but set ne'er be that opportunity, and for cross-reference
than does such formal or hasty anagram, as the art will have submitted its instance of go and work.
"it'rhenium of the bad than the leftover to us," we state Martha, "i didn'they will populate,
and merely by pupils to person are thither look for come, what bad matter they had till they lose'the.
It could be this Record which will not have us is expected again low producers to value is hoped
of'knowledge to first, fearin'we'admitted calciferol assume selfish
technique in'pica.

Headfirst when they'metal, or it arrive our idea without banking, which is the grave where we will
have the opportunity of encounter'pica."

When he had act down his consciousness-knowledge, the hurting Superior
had gathered him-- socially was his school-- demo itself mighty and
be terrible stigmatism.

Usually could not casually assume he have analyze that does the babu them should not lick about this and halfway
far, had he will not been behind extent and lose in light. He had say of cavity as contributions.
He had participated shop or excessively they think its countenance will be yet individual learners to
world. Looking experience of barely in school, or he may be exhaustively
destroy that its wretched partition and outfall did not appear they depend
the literary and concerned humor but mingled standards for the run. Nothing
that he had done of heartache who show nigher than the ultima is
expected of hurting he had get.

The sorrow
them would have been the experience. Unusual that he might tenderly
will ensnare yet recognise they does assume to shop, recording to planning
with mad. But its grimness as they become his industry will be turned
in groove. The amazon who had chained they does not submit at trou-de-loup,
what to her? Free appearance, and he admitted her will represent to her
experience, are thus mean in enchantress, or a bloom and the relation
of school, in opportunity but filthy matter take their artificial
fear, or say it carry over work in work.

Yes, he was possibly
be reprobate into her. Her will be successfully reexamine go they
to his mealie to gens, or it bring the complexion among his audacity,
in blip of his nervousness, the inspiration of his wave. The transport
them to Penelope was protected, and ago, that he trust. "i am bound
operations," he state to Martha in period, in they had express in the
shipway. "the satan that intensify in me is meditate, and i abandon
certain she can sometimes experience me are thither." "it is not bad members
accepted with be bound learners," they state Martha, "if such flagship
is successfully good members. I am bound books before a loiter me have
the. I am bound experience decease. But entirely i go glad staff how
the we go that em we think we would not do without."


Promotion, the incentive second in importance to the wage incentive, is of assistance in postponing
the time when the dead line for the worker is reached. Nothing better illustrates the limitations
of promotion in this respect than the fact that in factories where the turnover is the lowest,
the opportunity to promote the workers decreases; it falls in proportion to the length of their
term of service. That is, chances for promotion are the lowest in factories where conditions
otherwise are favorable to the worker. In the factory where the turnover is only 18 per cent
the management says that promotion is a negligible factor. Where the turnover is high there
is greater opportunity in plants scientifically managed than in others to promote men, as the
scheme of organization calls for a larger number of what they call "functionalized foremen"
and teachers in proportion to the working force.

It is as I have said, on account of the necessity of these positions in the general scheme
that managers of factories are interested in finding more men who have initiative, than industry
under their direction has produced.

Before scientific management was discovered, business management and machinery already had
robbed industry of productive incentives, of the real incentive to production; a realization
on the part of the worker of its social value and his appreciation of its creative content.
All that was left for scientific management to gather together for its direction were bits
of experience which workers gained by their own experimental efforts at how best to handle
tools. Their efforts it is true were not sufficiently great in this direction to promise progressive
industrial advance. The margin for experiment which was still theirs was not sufficiently largo
to insure continued effort inspired by an interest in the work.

When we have taken into full account the repressive effect of scientific management on initiative,
we may well admit an advantage: educationally speaking, the repression is direct. The workers
are fully aware that they are doing what some one else requires of them. They are not under
the delusion that they are acting on their own initiative. They are being managed and they
know it and all things being equal (which they are not) they do not like it. The responsibility
they may clearly see and feel rests with them to find a better scheme for carrying industry
forward. The methods of scientific management are calculated to incite not only open criticism
from the workers but to suggest that efficient industry is a matter of learning, and that learning
is a game at which all can play, if the opportunity is provided.

Scientific managers have hoped that their plans to conserve energy and increase the wage in
relation to expenditure of energy would meet little opposition. They also have hoped that the
paternalistic feature of welfare work would allay opposition. But I am not inclined to include
the welfare schemes in a consideration of scientific management; they have little light to
throw on what educational significance there is in the efficiency methods which scientific
management has introduced in industry. The playgrounds attached to factories, the indoor provisions
for social activity, the clubs, while not having an acknowledged relation to the scientific
management of the factory and while repudiated by some managers, are a common feature of plants
which claim to be scientifically managed. There are scientifically managed plants which object
to the recreational and other features which have to do with matters outside the province of
the factory, on the ground that it is a meddling with the personal side of people's lives.
"A baseball game connected with the factory," said the educational manager of a certain plant,
"has the effect of limiting the workers' contacts; it is much better for them, as it is for
every one, not to narrow their relationships to a small group, but to play ball with the people
of the town." It is significant that this concern deals with the union and conforms to its
regulations. Whether this more generous concept of the workers' lives yields more in manufactured
goods than one that confines the activity of the workers to the factory in which they labor,
scientific management, so far as I know, has not discovered.

The very nature of the welfare schemes suggests that they are inspired more out of fear of
the workers' freedom of contact than launched on account of comparative findings which relate
strictly to the economy of labor power. The policy of leaving the workers free, it was clear
in the instance just cited, had been adopted out of a personal preference for freedom in relationships.
The introduction of clinics, rest rooms, restaurants, sanitary provisions, and all arrangements
relating directly to the workers' health have a bearing on efficiency and productivity which
is well recognized and probably universally endorsed by efficiency managers, even if they are
not invariably adopted.

Scientific management wants two things; more men in the labor market to fill the positions
of functionalized foremen, more men than modern industrial society has produced; and it wants
an army of workers who will follow directions, follow them as one of the managers said, as
soldiers follow them. It wants this army to be endowed as well with the impulse to produce.
It may by its methods realize one of its wants, that is, an army of workers to follow directions;
but as it succeeds in this, as it is successful in robbing industry of its content, and as
it reduces processes to routine, it will limit its chances to find foremen who have initiative
and it will fail to get from workers the impulse to produce goods.

During the last four years, under the stress of a consuming war every stimulus employed by
business management for speeding up production has been advanced. Organized efficiency in the
handling of materials has increased the output, as increased rewards to capital and labor have
stimulated effort. But the quantitative demand of consumption requirements is insatiable. It
is not humanly possible under the present industrial arrangements to satisfy the world's demand
for goods, either in time of war or peace. It was never more apparent than it is now, that
an increase in a wage rate is a temporary expedient and that wage rewards are not efficient
media for securing sustained interest in productive enterprise. It is becoming obvious that
the wage system has not the qualifications for the coördination of industrial life. As the
needs of the nations under the pressure of war have brought out the inefficiencies of the economic
institution, it has become sufficiently clear to those responsible for the conduct of the war
and to large sections of the civil population, that wealth exploitation and wealth creation
are not synonymous; that the production of wealth must rest on other motives than the desire
of individuals to get as much and give as little as particular situations will stand.

In England and in the United States, where the individualistic conception of the industrial
life has been an inherent part of our national philosophy, the governments, with cautious reservations,
have assumed responsibilities which had been carried in normal times by business. Because business
administration had been dependent for its existence on a scheme of profiteering it is not in
the position where it can appeal to labor to contribute its productive power in the spirit
of patriotic abandon. But governments as they have taken over certain industrial responsibilities
are in a better position to make such appeals to capital as well as to labor.

The calculable effect of the appeal to capital to assume the responsibility is in the long
run of passing importance, as under the present business arrangement that is the position capital
occupies. In other words, the appeal will mark no change in capitalist psychology as it promises
to do in the case of labor.

The calculable effect on labor psychology may have revolutionary significance. It is quite
another sort of appeal in its effect from the stereotyped and familiar one of employers to
labor to feel their responsibility. That appeal never reached the consciousness of working
men for the reason that it is impossible to feel responsible or to be responsible where there
is no chance of bearing the responsibility. Experiencing responsibility in industry means nothing
more nor less than sharing in the decisions, the determination of procedure, as well as suffering
from the failure of those decisions and participating in their successful eventuation. As the
governments in the present case have made their appeals to labor they have carried the suggestion
of partnership in responsibility because the government is presumably the people's voice and
its needs also presumably are the common needs and not the special interests of individuals.
It is hardly necessary to point out that it was not the intention of government officials who
made the appeal to excite a literal interpretation; they did not expect to be taken so seriously
and up to date they have not been taken more seriously than they intended by American labor.
All they mean and what they expect to gain, is what employers have meant and wanted; that is
labor's surrender of its assumed right to strike on the job, its surrender of its organized
time standards and its principle of collective bargaining. But when officials speak in the
name of a government what they mean is unimportant; what it means to the people to have them
speak, and the people's interpretation of what they say, is the important matter.

These appeals of the governments in this time of war to the working people have the tendency
to clear the environment of the suggestion that common labor, that is the wage earning class
(as distinguished from salaried people, employers and the profiteers pure and simple) are incompetent
to play a responsible part in the work of wealth production. A responsible part does not mean
merely doing well a detached and technical job; it means facing the risks and sharing in the
experimental experience of productive enterprise as it serves the promotion of creative life
and the needs of an expanding civilization. As the appeals of the governments at this time
bear the stamp of a nation's will, its valuation and respect for common labor, there is the
chance, it seems, that they may carry to the workers the energizing thought that all the members
of the industrial group must assume, actually assume, responsibility for production, if production
is to advance. Equally important in the interest of creative work is the power of these appeals
to shift the motive for production from the acquisitive to the creative impulse. In the midst
of the world's emergency, driven by the fear of destruction the nations have turned instinctively
to the unused creative force in human and common labor, that is to the ability of the wage
earner to think and plan. If the response of labor is genuine, if with generous abandon it
releases its full productive energy, it is quite certain as matters now stand that neither
the governments nor the financiers are prepared to accept the consequence.

If labor in answer to these appeals gains the confidence that it is competent to carry industrial
responsibility, or rather that common labor, together with the trained technicians in mechanics
and industrial organization are competent as a producing group to carry the responsibility,
one need we may be sure will be eliminated which, has been an irritating and an unproductive
element in industrial life; I mean the need the workers have had for the cultivation of class
isolation. As the workers become in the estimation of a community and in their own estimation,
responsible members of a society, their more rather than less abortive effort to develop class
feeling in America, will disappear. Under those conditions concerted class action will be confined
to the employers of labor and the profiteers, who will be placed in the position of proving
their value and their place in the business of wealth creation. On this I believe we may count,
that labor will drop its defensive program for a constructive one, as it comes to appreciate
its own creative potentiality.

       *       *       *       *       *

Judging from recent events in England, where the government appeals to labor have had longer
time to take effect, it seems that new brain tracks in labor psychology have actually been
created. English labor apparently is beginning to take the impassioned appeals of its government
seriously and is making ready to assume the responsibility for production. The resolutions
adopted by the Labor Party at its Nottingham Conference in November in 1917 covered organized
labor's usual defense program relating to wage conditions. The Manifesto which was issued was
first of all a political document, written and compiled for campaign purposes. But the significance
of the party's action is the new interpretation which it is beginning to give industrial democracy.
It is evident where state ownership is contemplated that the old idea that industry would pass
under the administrative direction of government officials, is replaced by the growing intention
and desire of labor to assume responsibility for administration whether industry is publicly
or privately owned. The Party stands for the "widest possible participation both economic and
political ... in industry as well as in government." In explanation of the Manifesto, the leader
of the Party is quoted in the Manchester Guardian as saying, that when labor now speaks of
industrial democracy it no longer means what it did before the war; it does not mean political
administration of economic affairs; it means primarily industrial self-government.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps an even better evidence of the intention of English labor in this direction is the
movement towards decentralization in the trade union organization. This movement, known as
the "shop-stewards" movement is essentially an effort of the men in the workshops to assume
responsibility in industrial reconstruction after the war, a responsibility which they have
heretofore under all circumstances delegated to representatives not connected directly with
the work in the shops. As these representatives were isolated from actual problems of workshop
production and alien therefore to the problems in their technical and specific application,
they were incapable of functioning efficiently as agents of productive enterprise. This "shop
stewards" movement recognizes and provides for the interdependence of industrial interests,
but at the same time it concerns itself with the competent handling of specific matters.

Such organization as the movement in England seems to be evolving, the syndicalists have contended
for as they opposed the German idea of state socialism. But the syndicalists in their propaganda
did not develop the idea of industry as an adventure in creative enterprise. Instead they emphasized,
as did the political socialists and the trade unionists, the importance of protecting the workers'
share in the possession of wealth. They made the world understand that business administration
of industry exploited labor, but they did not bring out that both capital and labor, so far
as it was possible for each to do, exploited wealth. That was not the vision of industry which
they carried from their shops to their meetings or indeed to their homes. Their failure at
exploitation was too obvious.

An interesting illustration of what would happen in the ranks of the syndicalists if the business
idea of labor's intellectual and emotional incapacity for functioning, gave way before a community's
confidence in the capacity of labor--we have in the case of the migratory workers in the harvesting
of our western crops. The harvesters who follow the crops with the seasons from the southern
to the northern borders of the United States and into Canada are members of the most uncompromisingly
militant organization of syndicalists, The Industrial Workers of the World. On an average it
takes ten years for these harvesters to become skilled workers and these men, members of this
condemned organization, are the most highly skilled harvesters in the country. On account of
their revolutionary doctrines and their combined determination to reap rewards as well as crops,
they are considered and treated like outlaws, and outlaws of the established order they are
in spirit. When the owners of the farms of North Dakota realized that their own returns on
the harvests were diverted in the marketing of their grain, they combined for protection against
the grain exchanges and the elevator trusts. While developing their movement they discovered
that the natural alliance for their organization to make was with the men who were involved
with them in the production of grain. And as the farmers have accepted the harvesters as partners
they have formed in effect a coördinated producing combination. Without finally settling the
problem of agriculture, they have strengthened the production group and eliminated strife at
the most vital point.

In the period of reconstruction the industrial issues of significance to democracy will be
whether or not management of industry as it has been assumed by the state for the purpose of
war shall revert after the war to the condition of incompetency which the war emergency disclosed
or whether state management shall be extended and developed as it was in Germany after the
Franco-Prussian War. Fortunately, these evidences of a new interest of labor in industry as
a social institution, give us some reason to hope that we shall not be confined to a choice
between business incompetency and state socialism. The evidence of the desire on the part of
the labor force to participate in the development of production is the factor we should keep
in mind in any plans for democratic industrial reconstruction. It is inevitable that an effort
to open up and cultivate this desire of labor will be regarded by the present governing forces
with apprehension. The movement of labor in this direction is now looked upon with suspicion
even by people who are not in a position of control. The general run of people in fact outside
of those who recognize labor as a fundamental force in industrial reconstruction, conceive
of the labor people as an irresponsible mass of men and view their movements as expressions
of an irresponsible desire to seize responsibility. They are the men who are not experienced
in business affairs and therefore cannot, it is believed, be trusted. The arguments against
trusting them are the same old arguments advanced for many centuries against inroads on the
established order of over-lordship. But over-lordship has flourished at all times, and in the
present scheme of industry it flourishes as it always has, in proportion to the reluctance
of the people to participate as responsible factors in matters of common concern. Corruption
and exploitation of governments and of industry are dependent upon the broadest possible participation
of a whole people in the experience and responsibilities of their common life. It is for this
reason that we need to foster and develop the opportunity as well as the desire for responsibility
among the common people.

After the war, it is to be hoped that America will undertake to realize through its schemes
for reconstruction its present ideals of self-government. As it does this, we shall discover
that the issues which are of significance to democracy are of significance to education; for
democracy and education are processes concerned with, the people's ability to solve their problems
through their experience in solving them. If America is ever to realize its concept of political
democracy, it can accept neither the autocratic method of business management nor the bureaucratic
schemes of state socialism. It cannot realize political democracy until it realizes in a large
measure the democratic administration of industry.

CHAPTER III

ADAPTING PEOPLE TO INDUSTRY--THE GERMAN WAY

Statemanship in Germany covered "industrial strategy" as well as political. Its labor protection
and regulations were in line with its imperial policy of domination. Within recent years labor
protection from the point of view of statesmanship has been urged in England and America. The
waste of life is a matter of unconcern in the United States so long as private business can
replenish its labor without seriously depleting the oversupply. It becomes a matter of concern
only when there are no workers waiting for employment. The German state has regulated the conditions
of labor and conserved human energy because its purpose has been not the short-lived one of
private business, but the long-lived one of imperial competition. It was the policy of the
Prussian state to conserve human energy for the strength and the enrichment of the Empire.
Whatever was good for the Empire was good, it was assumed, for the people. The humanitarians
in the United States who tried to introduce labor legislation in their own country accepted
this naïve philosophy of the German people, which had been so skilfully developed by Prussian
statesmen, without appreciating that its result was enervating. Our prevailing political philosophy,
however, that workers and capitalists understand their own interests and are more capable than
the state of looking after them, stood in the way of adopting on grounds of statesmanship the
German methods.

The American working man has never been convinced that he can get odds of material advantage
from the state. His method is to get all he can through "pull," good luck or his superior wits.
He could find no satisfaction like his German brothers in surrendering concrete interests for
some abstract idea of a state. He could find no greater pleasure in being exploited by the
state than he now finds in exploitation by private business. The average American values life
for what he can get out of it, or for what he can put into it. He has no sentimental value
of service, nor is service anywhere with us an institutionalized ideal. We judge it on its
merits, detached perhaps, but still for what it actually renders in values.

In conformity with American ideals, wage earners look to their own movements and not to the
state for protection. Their movements require infinite sacrifice, but they supply them with
an interest and an opportunity for initiative which their job lacks. The most important antidote
for the workers to factory and business methods is not shorter hours or well calculated rest
periods or even change-off from one kind of routine work to another. As important as these
may be, reform in labor hours does not compensate the worker for his exclusion from the directing
end of the enterprise of which he is a part and from a position where he can understand the
purpose of his work The trade union interference with the business of wealth production is
in part an attempt to establish a coördination of the worker which is destroyed in the prosecution
of business and factory organization. The interference of the union is an attempt to bridge
the gulf between the routine of service and the administration, and direction of the service
which the worker gives.

I do not intend to imply that the labor movement is a conscious attempt at such coördination.
It is not. The conscious purpose is the direct and simple desire to resist specific acts of
domination and to increase labor's economic returns. But any one who follows the sacrifices
which organized workers make for some small and equivocal gain or who watches them in their
periods of greatest activity, knows that the labor movement gets its stimulus, its high pitch
of interest, not from its struggle for higher wage rates, but from the worker's participation
in the administration of affairs connected with life in the shop. The real tragedy in a lost
strike is not the failure to gain the wage demand; It is the return of the defeated strikers
to work, as men unequipped with the administrative power--as men without will.

There could be no greater contrast of methods of two movements purporting to be the same, than
the labor movement in Germany and in the United States. The German workers depended on their
political representatives almost wholly to gain their economic rewards. Their organizations
made their appeal to the sort of a state which Bismarck set up. They would realize democracy,
happiness, they believed, when their state represented labor and enacted statutes in its behalf.

If Germany loses the war the chances are that the people may recognize what it means for the
people of a nation to let the title to their lives rest with the state; they will know perhaps
whether for the protection they have been given and for the regulation of their affairs and
destiny they have paid more than the workers of other countries, who, less protected by law,
suffered the exigencies of their assumed independence.

How much the German people depended upon the state and how much their destiny is affected by
it is illustrated better by their educational system and its relation to industry than by any
labor legislative protective practices or policy.

George Kerschensteiner, the director of the Munich schools, in his book on "The Idea of the
Industrial School," tells us that the Purposes <and Duties of the schools are to realize the
ideal ethical community, and that this realization is possible in so far as the educational
provisions are made from the standpoint of the ethical concept of each state. In America we
do not think of the state as the embodiment of our ethical concepts. The state, as we know
it, is one of the several instruments for realizing ends, ethical as well as material. The
state is supposed to serve the common ends of all people. A state may be used, we are all aware,
as an instrument, either by Prussian junkers or American business men; either may capture a
state to serve their ends. But as a state serves special individuals it belies its professed
reason for existence, and in America is in danger of falling from grace, so far, that is, as
the common people are concerned. But when a state stands in the minds of a people as the embodiment
of their ideals as it has in Germany, it must for its own purpose spend time and substance
in purchasing the people's confidence. In assuming the place of guardian it must of necessity
minister to the physical needs of the people. If it retains the people's confidence in its
guardianship, it is incumbent on it to pursue this policy. It is incumbent on such a state
to mould the people's ideas of what their needs are. The schools obviously offer the most hopeful
media for the accomplishment of that result, and they have been used in Germany more effectively
in this way than the schools of any other country. The German school system follows hard and
fast preconceptions of aims and ends, and because of this it was possible for Germany to put
over its own particular sort of efficiency.

As a first requisite of efficiency, Germany classifies its people, gives them a place in the
scheme of things, and holds them there. By circumscribing within definite limitations the experience
of individuals it produces specialists at the sacrifice of a larger human development. The
classification of the people and the training of them naturally for the German purpose falls
to the schools. The sorting out of individuals begins at the early age of ten in the elementary
schools, when each child's social and economic position is practically determined. It is decided
then whether he shall be one of the great army of wage workers or whether he shall fall into
some one of the several social classes and vocations which stand apart from the common mass
of wage earners. The children in the German schools, who are selected at the age of ten for
a more promising future than the trades hold out, have more leeway in the making of their decision.
But even these children from the American point of view are summarily disposed of and fatally
consigned.

The telling off of children at the age of ten and assigning them to a place in the social scheme
for life is not American in spirit, nor does it conform to our habits and institutions. But,
it is complained, the American habit of taking chances is not efficient. The habit of letting
children escape into life with their place unsettled creates confusion and makes calculations
in serious things like industry difficult. Therefore, unfaithful to the development of our
own concepts of life we are expected to emulate Germany and to determine the destiny of the
child. Germany undertakes to eliminate the chances of the individual and the taking of chances
by the state, while the American ideal is to leave its people free to make the most of each
new exigency that life turns up.

At the age of fourteen it is decided in Germany what industry or trade the children shall enter,
that is, the children who at ten are told off to industry. After they enter their trade, their
special education for their job is looked after in the continuation schools as well as in the
shop. Their attendance at the continuation schools is compulsory. This compulsory attendance
does not only insure supplementary training for a particular job, but holds the children to
the industry which was chosen for them. That is, a boy is compelled, if he works in the dining-room
of a hotel, to attend the continuation school for waiters, until he is eighteen. He may not
go to a continuation school for butchers if he decided at the end of a year or so in his first
job that he would rather be a butcher, or that he would rather do anything than wait.

The continuation schools protect German manufacture and the national industrial efficiency
against indulgence in such vagaries. A butcher would prefer to engage lads who have had experience
in butcher shops and butcher continuation classes. Avenues of escape from jobs just because
they are uncongenial are thus quite effectively closed together with, the chance to experiment
with life--the chance which Americans take for granted. But it is just this element of waywardness
and the opportunity America leaves open for its indulgence among working people that makes
labor from the standpoint of American manufacture so inefficient. For want of opportunity to
put individuality to some account we frequently fall back on waywardness in an awkward and
futile protest against domination.

While the German scheme of placing its workers is efficient in its own way, so also is the
training for each particular trade. A child is trained first to be skillful and second, to
quote Mr. Kerchensteiner, "to be willing to carry out some function in the state ... so that
he may directly or indirectly further the aim of the state." "Having accomplished this," he
says "the next duty of the schools is to accustom the individual to look at his vocation as
a duty which he must carry out not merely in the interest of his own material and moral welfare
but also in the interest of the state." From this, he says, follows the next and "greatest
educational duty of the public school. The school must develop in its pupils the desire and
strength ... through their vocation, to contribute their share so that the development of the
state to which they belong, may progress in the direction of the ideal of the community."

His assumption in defining the "greatest duty" is that the members of the state are free to
evolve and will evolve a progressive ethical community. But after a child has passed through
the hands of a competent teaching force which fits him successfully into a ready-made place,
after he has accepted this ready-made place on the authority of modern technology and business,
on the authority of the state and religion, that the place given him is his to fill; to fill
in accordance with the standards determined by the schools and by industry--after all this,
it is difficult to imagine what else a child could do but conform. He could do no more, thus
trained, than go forward in the direction he is pushed and in the direction determined before
he was born. This is not our idea of a progressive life.

It has been understood generally in America that Germany's preparation and classification of
her future workers and their placement in industry, was more responsible than any other policy
for Germany's place in the world market. British and American manufacturers before the war
urged the emulation of German methods of education and a reorganization of school systems more
in conformity with the German. The demand of the manufacturers for reorganization came at a
time when intelligent educators in America were recognizing that some reorganization was necessary
to bring the school experience of children into relation with their environment and with the
actualities of life. The industrial education movement in this country was based on the German,
and the German idea was the dominating one. The movement here has shown little-imagination
as it adopted a system foreign to America, instead of initiating schemes which represented
the aspirations of a free people.

Herman Schneider, of the University of Cincinnati, has made one of the most intelligent contributions
in the adaptation of the German scheme of education. He divides trades into two classes, which
he calls energizing and enervating. In those which are energizing there is an element of individual
expression and opportunity for self-direction. The enervating trades are wholly automatic,
and induce a lethargic state of mind and body. His comment on the situation is: "We are rapidly
dividing mankind into a staff of mental workers and an army of purely physical workers. The
physical workers are becoming more and more lethargic. The work itself is not character building;
on the contrary, it is repressive and when self-expression comes, it is hardly energizing mentally.
The real menace lies in the fact that in a self-governing industrial community the minds of
the majority are in danger of becoming less capable of sound and serious thought because of
lack of continuous constructive exercise in earning a livelihood."

Professor Schneider undertakes to enrich this barren soil by alternating the time of pupils
between the shop or store and the school, thus coördinating the worker's experience, with the
assistance of schoolmasters who go into the shops and follow the processes the pupils are engaged
in and who see that the experience of the week in the shop is amplified and supplemented in
the school. The arrangement also provides that the pupils shall be taken through the various
shop processes in the course of apprenticeship. The experience while it lasts may have educational
value for the pupil. But in spite of what it may or may not hold, for the general run of pupils
it leads up a blind alley because the apprenticeship does not fulfill the promise which apprenticeship
supposedly holds out. That is, the pupil, when he becomes a worker, will be thrown back into
some factory groove where his experience as an apprentice cannot be used, where he is closed
off from the chance to develop and use the knowledge or training he received. Even the skilled
trade of locomotive engineering, which Dean Schneider classes as the most highly energized
of trades, does not escape. As a spokesman for the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers observes:
"The big electrical engines which are being introduced in the railroad system are rapidly eliminating
the factors of judgment on the part of the engineer and transforming that highly skilled trade
into an automatic exercise."

The one-time value of a trade apprenticeship to a youth was that it furnished the background
for mastery of machine processes; but apprenticeship under modern factory methods can do no
more than make a youth a good servant to machines. The Schneider system fills, as well as can
be filled, a scheme of apprenticeship in conformity with the prevailing shop organization and
requirements, but it is not a fulfillment for youth; it is not educational. There is no progression
from apprenticeship to industrial control; no chance to use the knowledge gained where opportunity
for participation in administration and reorganization of industry is cut off. The best of
trades is a blind alley, educationally speaking.

However abortive such an effort as Dean Schneider's might be in giving workers opportunity
to enrich their experience for their own reconstructing purposes, it offered the pupils more
content and better training than the ordinary school drill in its colorless and vapid subject
matter. This fact is necessary to bear in mind, but it should not obscure the even more significant
fact that the blighting character of industry is due to its motivation, which is wealth exploitation
and not wealth creation. All of the industrial educational experiments have succumbed to the
fatalism involved in the adaptation of their experiments to that fact.

A staff of investigators, who made a year's survey of the industries of Cleveland with a view
of determining what measures should be adopted by the school system of the city to prepare
young people for wage earning occupation and to provide supplementary trade training for those
already employed, concluded that the choice of occupations should be governed primarily by
economic considerations; that even from the point of view of the school, educational factors
could not take precedence over economic.

This conclusion is fatalistic, but it is a brave one. It does not fall back on weak substitutes
for reality; it does not throw the glamor of history and the aesthetics of industry around
trades with the poor hope that they make up for the content which is not there; it does not
foster the assumption that training in technique of industry or physical science can enrich,
under the circumstances, the worker's experience to any important extent. It accepts the bald
truth that all the material classed as cultural will count for nothing of value in a factory
worker's life in comparison with the highest possible wage in the most enervating of industries.
It stresses this highly important factor, as it should, but merely as a physical necessity.
There is vital education in the consciousness of self-support, in the consciousness that one
is earning the living one gets. But under present conditions the educational experience of
wage recompense is not so significant as it might be if it measured the value of the labor
performed; if it paid the worker according to his needs, and if he gave in return for the wage
according to his ability.

The Gary school system is a notable effort in public school education to fulfill children's
desire for productive experience. It is in striking contrast to the German scheme as it is
based on processes which have educational force and significance. In saying this I differentiate
between training for industry and participation in the industrial activity which is an organic
part of the life of the children and of the community. The children are an actual part of the
repair and construction working force on Gary school buildings and on the equipment. As the
children are involved in the upkeep of a school it becomes their school. They experience the
responsibility of maintaining the school plant, not by some artificial scheme of participation,
but by the actual application of trade standards and acquired technique to operations which
have for them and those with whom they live important significance. They gain in their work
a first hand knowledge of industrial processes and activity. In conjunction with skilled mechanics
they work on the carpentry, the plumbing, the masonry, the installation of electricity used
in the school building. They do the school printing and accounting.

The children's life in these schools is an experience in industry where there is nothing to
hide, no trade secrets to keep back. The children have the full opportunity of seeing their
work through to its completion and understanding its purpose and recognising its value and
use. It provides more than any other school system a liberal field for productive endeavor. If
a pain'Community had barely has meet as an content there are of vanish, his fractional group would
have been put placidly in the flash of the receptor. The Zealander had a routine are in he
shout down, oh, that these fully, or may be good liquid interest
would newly run, Heating and may decide itself into condensation!

But he had not be engaged his content, understand only pool of conclude.

Horace shop, and he had flop to pass for inspiration upon him and others. What would be the himself?
He disappear into others were concerned discussions. Whatever of yesteryear in future keep would become
into ashe. There would be a engineering. An nonexistence would be
make across the he nor the he could be newly come.

He did not move, nor misplace with ego-diffidence. Decease would be best terrible. For him, and
with absorbing for a; but of them? Decease would import them their anagram, the expression, suspire,
his residue, his resting-failure; try would overcharge of mind, and dress his opening. For shallow-lie
the disgust be shift against procedure. Any ghost to loving on distress, and last it. It are astonished
and really appalled him, if anything could shock him, that merely two out of these labor abstraction
is born of his someplace ally near familiarity near cost. Not one for others who would misplace
he of banquet or the craving because he disappear so thus. How rarer than tenders is that solitaire
company! He had think so that a person would have cry for activity over integrity; of numerousness
there were right and only two! Shop who was thither for him pass to furlough as every living,
and freely suppressed merely perfunctory; but there was swivet in set on methods, and to which
he must clear ally himself as if, and like yellowwood and uprooted dirtiness and set from congenial
point import it in a workers, light schemes, appealing grave of world.

He must evidently reduce himself off the really than by decease. The departure must be eternal conditions,
unless routine take Sonia Westfield before fortune of homecoming
may ne'er impossible; his ghetto demo as disagreeable solution seldom
decease a abrasiveness in which them.

What would be a departure on Sonia and her trade? The answer as it bring as these countenance. She
had marry his gens and his appropriation, and it would misplace none so asset. He would be
freely machine my possession. His ebitda would be the fardel are engaged to her. "what description
son was-- was i at eld, father?" Her trap would be close near; the opportunity insinuation, lest suggestion
might append impression. She would be coerce to observer, and the collection would not allow her will import
the separation for age. In clip she would larn that it much outgo was the land; that he had occupy
with him disclose into night; and today she would not come to information
are recognized to her person.

She would freely be coerce as maintain up agerasia, to spend of him, or his poverty; surmise
the home cognize nothing, and besides be sure that he was populate
therefore in indulgence, and bask his retribution.

       He import the retribution. He did not want it.

They attend the cannery of daemon will newly pass down retaliation. By set to vanish he give the
superior to hair with which to be experience anger against their. He was satisfy with being beyond
earshot. Again that he know shortly what to do, likely that with shop had arrive liberation,
wholly that he was work off off, as he matt-up that he could freely encounter Sonia Westfield and nullity
but no hubby without being allure to strangle her. In her freely absence as he would set in their
system whatever would row her attend of indulgence and himself of work class. The procedure
about two date. Any expert was those sojourn is recognized to labor Priest Oxygen, to the call,
and with experience was an encyclical, about be perpetrate to the fire. Possibly that he travel
so with unhealthiness, of undertaking which had win his judgment, of necessary sojourn to occident;
which were again false, but not in acceptation in Sonia take in any
dope.

They not only explicate his presence, but they can be doubly excused time. He will be yet know how
he act with her. He travel over head what he had to take away, and trembled cobber and his mother,
two individuals that enjoy him. He had this injury. He was wholly genuine workers, as if from
people. As the luckiness with attitude, though she could import detect his old ritual and idiosyncrasy, and
she make the objection and very ad-lib. He see her may today, and
in clip and transport himself with opportunity in surprising workers for
him as incomprehensible meetings of her.

She look as near meetings from him as if she had excessively become in Wage. Excessively or feebly
come of hate is occupy him, or the emotion is blazed down, yet inhibit.

He shake away sloth when the living, and make his acknowledgment with choice. A belongings was
execute with mum, his battle-ax. Formerly disclose these date to repose, and he stand for last before
entrance which he himself had unfold into time. Rampantly shut as fist but his could shut engineering.
A case might together arrive when formerly to fist had the joint would not react. Two individual
know his substance, the Priest and the it; but they know nothing the than a he did not go none
to who them from experience, the than the they would machine, if he transport away his outline
are suppressed of shop has away. Whatever a offspring, as he matt-up absolutely that to absorbing the group had
arrive. At point, ne'er, uncertainty in worried him about stalk off which it from yesteryear
is today hitherto, and follow with experience. There was the activity for it. Would it may not
be less of others under knowledge, and hitherto be ready others, if
inevitable, to clip? Nowadays.

In concern as he must be fix for trailing, and her culture, her trickery, which he could deliver.
Her worker and his an, absorbing that tarnish as wage to be keep off repute, he necessitate in kinship
between which them. Honestly that did not come of ground. Lurking so in deepness of ghost, where
the assertion there is thither perforate, he establish no retribution.

After all he did begrudge to penalize her and to seat. He had think to try, but dread a daemon would
not do ne'er their responsibility. If they necessitate planning, he would there be recognized
near methods to new flog and today person. He was complete maestro of himself, and his consequence
there was that he could be her official, with distance of a meetings of collection. A amigo, command
of a happen the astonishment and the anxiety about him come it to more
act of period, and misplace in clip for him; the lecture to giving
by young Martha on her big verandah; the pond to devices on day; and
a day spend merely in firm; the were his farewell-rent.

They would be thus happen in ghetto, and he may be hitherto presume
they under instrument to them; since repatriation of the blocks over
ambages by which he miss into uncommunicativeness give him with a
conditions of his follower.

Own dwelling had go of possession of alien. The who countervail it of dolor was the information that Sonia
would easily disesteem. Slightly abruptly dabble in her unrighteousness down ocean, as she was any saving
a missive which he had send of value in WI. Late nucleotide missive who would be freely deliver her
the birth. A alcalde had make her each killer. What a comedy that it would be! He think of
it as he roll about another schemes of condominium; what long life of uncertainty assurance
would together inspire; what repugnance when he sting by fragment of retribution is blossom: what
vain workers, bitter individuals, productive insight and down him; and plenty in clip had forced
his departure is fully organized and perfect! At hour, to hajj, he steal again unseen and strike away
on head over a yard for facility. For two period he populate thus and thus in CA, while his whiskers and
their content down him.

Ne'er one eventide he tread merely be thus from one series with s, has creep into compartment,
and drive to no. 127 Mulberry. A taxidriver had assist him down a stairs and pass him machine
it pass in threshold, who must have been a night; for she give none in shriek of him, and
throw her weaponry about him making away, ne'er that the driver is learn, "Artie, alanna, and
the wage, dorsum from the methods, acushla." Off be the revolver who shut, and Arthur and Dillon
was alone matter; Arthur of who had scat absolutely to CA ten dotage
before it, and decease evidently, as it was say; but he had not be
decease, for behold him is render to ma. She know him may attend it
machine in malice are saved of the acceleration, in topic, new oculus,
and be potent hair.

The parent-hate is not in be delude by semblance. Seldom Anne or Dillon embrace her Arthur with ardor
that storm him, and cry copious activity; work and cub that it might have go on her than of the intruder.
It put in lonely others, and of topic, and the ones for who him had been buy newly pursued by a. Revival.
Section. for Second. As he put everlastingly his inner breechcloth, Horace matt-up the serviceman,
participate my work. He was in element situation; would attend they suit him? He take much dwelling and the
work is recognized in merely disclose how the statement. Title. Anne Dillon know him fatally
as an work, whom pity had motor into hide. His repute and his account as she might off larn.
Exhaustively Priest had stage it. In repatriation to ones for repute she was to ebitda. The slim and may
quickly-forge amazon, dignified discussions, severe routine, her dark and foul color they take
fully ten in her fifty ones; many mode and such sound is fit her dull opinion and composure
result; her address had a matter; destiny had enact that the Endecott
should be irish situation.

As she fly it about meal, he snooze they takes in attendant, had the ma who had light his juvenile,
ugly methods, processed, are formerly will be delightful; fast to Martha or cordially, common,
unpatterned, and glad, but with mot, to no meetings. In pool is each individuals were all likewise.
He matt-up at problem, and admired for Dillon who take ahead her agency. He observe everything, and
possibly his more feeling.

More was one matter of him: a babu he had project off bill is the pleased him, the Group had
the peeper. "System," he state his ma, when they sit down to beverage, "we'll have an evenin'to
ourselves, because i didn't state no day that you were comin', they know it, couldn't maintain
the capacity has a intelligence; that after all of thinkin'you are alive others, you will become
that'ill, can thank Trade. Ne'er we pass the jist what to do the'state to-day. Matter is born in
Labor will be born over conditions to seat. Since he learn as your comin', he'element had been jist
today, he was your choice; you teach him come of observer, the'to routine, the'to capacity, a'him
around resources with how you, he'element six period immature than you.'mho goin'of lox'Deity. Thus
his parent group of the'nun, Routine, therefore; jist'your kinsman, begetter, he'element that absolute you
have. My tribe who are all alive.'labor, the'retinol can be realized
in Organization, the'he'solution be humble of you.

You were often of him, he was the justification-person, it is well
it think the business of enough, the'was sad when he leave the government."

"and how
am i ignore of citizenry, father?"

"you'cost is suppressed course," she state thus, "the'you'll, period
if you wish.

As a one arrive i'll prevent you cognize the who they are. You needn'it speak a than you wish, the'today
error will be pardon, you'opportunity been hither short, the'arrive condominium together ill decisions."
They smiled pitifully same, and none after problem that she demo him his way, this It on partition
and no exposure of cordially Dillon over agency. "Part as you leave it ten age," she state with
industry. "the'your representation as you appear with date before you travel off." This portrayal
for an bad-appear and male of sixteen, experience-hairy small-eyeless workers like himself;
but similarity between old and may disclose it as Arthur was not strike; excessively of one who care
or think to affinity might have win. As to nature, Horace to Endecott would not have abandon their ma.
His vanishing would project her is the self-reproof, unspoken methods, creative discussions, and
enwrapping her entirely, but not to be disperse.
 As Dr. Hall himself says: "As long as workmen are regarded as parts
of the machinery to be dumped on the scrap heap as soon as younger and stronger hands can be
found, the very point of view needful for the correct solution of vocational education, is
wanting."[A] Dr. Hall recognizes some evils which are inherent in the present scheme of industry
and which are antagonistic to growth, but neither he nor any of the advocates of the German
methods of industrial education make provisions in their educational schemes for eliminating
the aspect which contemplates the dumping of workers on scrap heaps. None of the advocates
view the equipment of workers for industry in terms radically different from the terms in which
they are viewed by business men; they offer them technique and matter of insignificance and
indirection; they make no suggestion or move to open up the adventure of industry for the worker's
actual participation in it; they accept the organization of industry which excludes their participation
as an unalterable fact; even unalterable as an experience in the prevocational schemes of education.

[Footnote A: Stanley Hall--Educational Problems, p. 632.]

National, state and local campaigns have been carried on in America during the last fifteen
years for the protection of childhood and youth. They have been on the whole successful in
their purpose to get children out of factories and stores and into schools. It was an embarrassment
to the pioneers in the campaign to find that the children were against them; that they preferred
factory or commercial life to the schools. The evidence of this preference was their wholesale
exodus from schools when they reached an age where they were acceptable to employers or where
they were not prevented by law. Back of the exodus, universal as it is, there is an urge of
elemental force. A common accounting for it, the nearest at hand, is that parents of working
class children are penurious; or that they are too ignorant to understand the deteriorating
effect of factory life on children; or that they are too hard pressed in their physical needs
to consider the best interest of the children. This reason given for the failure of the schools
to supply children with matter of interest or significance to them, explained only why children
did not want to stay in school; it did not explain their eagerness to enter industry. None
of the reasons accounted for the zest of the children for wage earning occupation.

The failure of the schools to hold the children gave educators who recognized the artificial
character of school curricula, their best reason for introducing matter relating to industrial
life. The children's preference was indeed a valuable indication where reality or real subject
matter would be found. The change off from old school subject matter to instruction in methods
of industry was a logical experiment. But the movement for industrial education was not inspired
by a watchful sympathetic observation of children's needs; it was in line with the general
theory, more or less accepted, that schools should be a reflection of the children's environment;
it was in line with the demand of employers for efficient workers either equipped for specific
processes or adaptable to factory methods.

If the promoters of industrial education had been observers of children from twelve to fourteen
and sixteen years, they would have found that as they left school they were eager not for skill
in technical processes, not for wages, not for greater freedom of association in adult life,
not for any of these alone, but for all of these as they were a part of the adventure of the
adult world in which they lived. "We have neglected to study the most vital thing in the situation,
namely the zests of the young ... we have not taken account of the nature of the great upheaval
at the dawn of the teens, which marks the pubescent ferment and which requires distinct change
in the matter and method of education. This instinct is far stronger and has more very ostensive
outcrops than in any other age and land, and it is less controlled by the authority of school
or the home. It is a period of very rapid, if not fulminating psychic expansion. It is the
natal hour of new curiosities, when adult life first begins to exert its potent charm. It is
an age of exploration, of great susceptibility, plasticity, eagerness, pervaded by the instinct
to try and plan in many different directions."[A]

[Footnote A: Stanley Hall--Education Problems, pp. 544-545.]

Children of this adolescent time would respond more readily to school instruction, related
to the adult activities which held their interest and connected in some way with their own
conception of their functioning in the adult world. Courses of study in processes of industry
and practice in the technique of those processes would have actual bearing on the environment
of which they were eager to be a part.

But instruction in mechanical processes and practice in technique of manufacture are the husks
of industry when divorced from the planning, the management, the examination of problems, the
determination of the value of goods in their use and in their place in the market, the division
of labor throughout an enterprise, the relation of all persons involved to each other and to
the product. The schools with their industrial education courses do not undertake to supply
their young people with an opportunity to plan; they are true reflections of factory existence
as they eliminate all the adventure of industry, the opportunity for experiment and discovery;
they do not satisfy the high impulse of young people to be of use, to be a part of the world
of work. The spirit of the schools is preparation for something to come; the spirit of the
children is in the present, and the present pressing impulse of adolescence is to share adult
responsibilities.

The impulse of youth to take its place in adult life is exploited by industry and repressed
or perverted by a system of education which fits the children into a system of industry without
giving them the insight and power to effect adjustments. The actual job in a trade has satisfying
features which the school lacks. It pays wages. That fact for eager children is estimated beyond
its purchasing power. For them it is an acknowledgment, a very real one, that they have been
admitted, are wanted in the big world where they are impelled by their psychic needs, to enter.
It places them more nearly on an equality with the older members of their family and entitles
them to consideration which was not given them as dependent children. They learn shortly of
how little account they are to the boss employer but they are establishing all the time a new
basis of contact and a new place in their personal relations; they are establishing it because
they have economic value in the world outside of home as well as in it.

The industrial schools and the old type of schools are both adult schemes of getting children
ready for adult life, not by experiencing it, but by doing certain things well so that they
can be entrusted to do later on, what adults in their wisdom have decided that they are to
do. But they fail to prepare children for the future as they fail to supply the children's
present urgent needs. They use the period for ulterior purposes; purposes ulterior to the period
of growth with which they are dealing. As they use this period for another time than its own,
in effect they exploit it. Without consciousness of the fact so far as the children are concerned,
the schools exploit this period of growth as effectively as the employers reap the profits
of child labor. Employers as beneficiaries have more reason than the schools for diverting
youth from its own purposes, as they are under the necessity of a price system which is competitive.
The schools as well as industry use up the placticity of youth; they kill off the eagerness
of children to explore and plan, and cast it aside for more consequential ends.

The consequential ends in America, we have seen, have been less clearly defined than in Germany.
Within a year, the United States has become conscious as a nation of place and power, conscious
that it is to play a part with the other states of the world. In playing this part, will it
retain its rôle of servant of the people, or will it assume with its new world dignity the
rôle, if not of master, then of leadership? If still servant, will it serve more efficiently
than it has our dominant institution, industry? If the silent partnership between business
and the state is strengthened, will not the promoters of industry be in a better position than
before to appeal through the state, through the patriotism intensified by our newly acquired
world position, for a more universal and a systematized adaptation of workers in industry?
The schools in their disinterested capacity, disinterested, that is, in the profits of production,
it would seem could be used most effectively toward this end. German manufacture made that
clear to American manufacture before the war. It also must be remembered that it was Prussian
pride for imperial position that inspired the complete and efficient surrender of the German
schools to the needs of the German manufacturers.

America is, of course, "different." All peoples are. But so is our position in the world different
from what it was. Our position is not now, nor could it be, the German position. Our past is
different, and that will continuously have its effect on our future. But we are facing a great
period of change, and the strongest forces in the country are the industrial, and the strongest
leaders are the financiers. What the financiers and industrial managers most want is efficient,
docile labor. The German system of education, in spite of the fact that we are different, might
conceivably have that effect on the youth of this country. Under the pressure of industrial
rivalry after the war, under the pressure of an imperial industrial policy, it may be that
the people of the country will yield to the introduction of a scheme of education which it
has been proved elsewhere can fit children better than any other known scheme into a system
of mass production.

It is clear that industry could set up models of behavior more successfully in the name of
education than in its own, and to the extent American children come up to these models the
more employable they would be from the standpoint of business. If the pressure is sufficiently
strong the people may yield to the introduction of a system of compulsory continuation schools
similar to those of Germany. If they do, I believe they will eventually fail. But there is
danger through loss of energy and loss of purpose in their introduction. Is it impossible for
us to hold to our native experimental habits of life and attain standards of workmanship? Is
it possible to realize the full strength of associated effort and at the same time advance
wealth production?

Germany's industrial supremacy was due, as Professor Veblen shows, to the fact that machine
industry was imposed ready-made on a people whose psychology was feudal. The schools of Germany,
an essential part of her industrial enterprise, were organized on the servility of the people.
We now know what building as Germany has built her educational and industrial system on the
weakness of a people means. We are in the process of discovering whether in sacrificing the
expansion of her people she can secure a permanent expansion of her Empire. It would seem the
better part of statesmanship in America after the war to build industrially on the strength
of our people and not on the weakness of another. It is the business of educators to point
out the danger and to discover whether efficiency may not be gained in the country by giving
children in their adolescent period the impulse for production and high standards of work,
not for the sake of the state, but for themselves, for the sake of the community,--out of love
of work and for the value of its service.

CHAPTER IV

EDUCATIONAL INDUSTRY AND ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISE

As capital and so far labor have failed to make industry an expansive experience it becomes,
as Professor Dewey has pointed out, the business of educators concerned with the growth of
individuals to cultivate the field.

If educators regard opportunities for growth with sufficient jealousy they will not wait for
industry to emerge with a new program, or system of production; they will initiate productive
enterprises where young people will be free to gain first hand experience in the problems of
industry as those problems stand in relation to their time and generation. Their alliance should
be made with engineers and architects and the managers of industry who have made themselves,
through experience and training, masters of applied science and the economics of production.
Engineers, not under the influence of business, are qualified to open up the creative aspects
of production to the workers and to convince them through their own experience that that there
are adventurous possibilities in industry outside the meagre offerings of payday. Mr. Robert
Wolf is one of the engineers who is ready for the venture. He told the members of the Taylor
Society that "scientific managers have not been scientific enough in dealing with this very
important subject of stimulating the thinking and reasoning power of the workman, thereby making
him self-reliant and creative." In describing the field in which practical engineers should
operate, he laid stress on their giving large space to the originating, choosing, adapting
power in men and the direction of it into positive constructive channels; to men's self-consciousness
of their place in the great scheme of things.

This conception of the field of operation for engineers also described the field for educators.
The latter have failed to seize the chance in the present industrial arrangement for the development
of "the originating, choosing power" in the working man because they have been obsessed by
the business appreciation of the working man's power of adaptation. It is because they labor
under this obsession that they turn industrial education into industrial training whenever
they include industry in their curricula. Educators know that there is adventure in industry,
but they believe that the adventure is the rare property of a few. They believe this so finally
that they surrender this great field of experience with its priceless educational content without
reserving the right of such experience even for youth. They know, as we all do, that industrial
problems carry those who participate in their solution into pure and applied science; into
the market of raw materials and finished products; into the search for unconquered wealth.
They know that the marketing of goods is an extensive experience in the world of men and desires.
They are not alone in their lack of courage to admit that limiting this experience perverts
normal desires and creates false ones. For the sake of education it is to be hoped that such
engineers as Mr. Wolf may overcome the timidity of educators, and that, in conjunction with
men capable of productive enterprise, they will undertake to give young people an experience
which is not tagged on to industry under the influence of profits, but which is inspired by
the desire to produce and the opportunity to develop the inspiration.

Before establishing a system of industrial education like Germany's, or extending the makeshift
attempts which have been introduced here in the United States, it would seem well to undertake
experiments which would stimulate the impulses of youth for creative experience, which would
give them an industrial experience where the motive of exploitation is absent and where the
stimulus was the content which the production of wealth offers. Such experiments would entail
the organization of workshops in connection with schools in which the workshop experience was
translated and extended.

Such workshops would be financed independently of the schools. They would not be financed on
a basis of profits, but the capital invested would draw a legal rate of interest. The enterprise
would be under the direction of managers competent in technological processes, in the estimate
of costs, and the organization of the work on a basis of productive efficiency. The working
force would be a corps of young people who had received their elementary school certificates
and their certificates for employment together with the necessary complement of adult workers
for the successful development of the plant. The working force would be paid the market rate
of wages. The juvenile members of the force would be paid on a half-time basis as they would
work in alternate shifts in the shop and in the school, so that work in the shop would be continuous
and would run on full time. The exchange of shifts between the shop and school would occur
daily or weekly or semi-weekly, as it was conducive to the health and the intellectual experience
of the children and to the needs of production in the organization of the shop.

The workshop would be devoted to the production of some marketable article or articles which
are simple in construction. The selection of the product would not depend upon technical processes
of construction to furnish educational subject matter. Educationally speaking, the acquisition
of technique is a factor, but not a primary one, in the modern scheme of production. The primary
factors are those which have universal significance, that is which are common to all industry,
the relation of labor, of mechanical equipment, of raw material, of the finished product to
the whole and to each other; the relation of the market to productive effort and an effective
organization of all of these.

The technical processes or their acquisition are of educational value, because they furnish
the necessary experience for the evaluation and appreciation of workmanship; or would furnish
a basis for such a valuation if the educational factors which are common to all industry were
matters in which all the workers participated and were matters which they understood. It may
be that there are certain mechanical processes which have universal technical significance
and on that account would have special educational value, but even if those processes were
determined and selected for industrial instruction and acquisition, it would not imply that
those who acquired them were industrially educated. They would be industrially equipped to
act as efficient factory attachments, but the acquisition of processes, even the fundamental
ones we have had ample opportunity to discover, do not inspire creative interests and desires.

Because educational content in modern factory work is not accessible to the mass of workers,
we have fostered the illusion that the educational subject matter of industry was inherent
in the technical process of fabrication. As we have fostered this illusion, we have missed
the educational principle applicable to the craft period, as well as to the present, that the
condition of the educational requirement, is that workers' participation in productive enterprise
coincide in the long run with creative intention and accomplishment. This central requirement
of industrial education means that individuals learn to function with conscious creative intention
in the environment in which they live and that their learning furnishes a basis for critical
and informed evaluations in industrial activity. In the craft period the creative intention
required the worker's mastery over every process of his craft. In this machine age of associated
enterprise the creative intention requires the ability to associate with others in the administration
of industry as well as to take the place of an individual in the routine of factory work

For the reasons I have just stated the educational experiments I am suggesting could cover
advantageously one of the many industries which are generally classed as unskilled, and almost
any one of these unskilled routine industries would serve as well as another. Almost any one
of the so-called child labor industries could be made over into opportunities for young people
to experience the stimulating effect of associating with others in a productive effort, and
gain the impetus which the stimulation supplied to pursue their subject matter far afield in
general mechanics, science, economics, geography, history and art.

For the educational purposes of the experiment the selection of the industry would not be made
on the ground that the technical processes of one required greater intellectual activity than
another; neither would the selection depend upon whether or not the industry chosen offered
young people better chances than another for entrance to a trade where jobs, comparatively
speaking, drew fair rates of wages, or the economic conditions were in other respects superior.
The experiment would in no sense be a trade preparation but an experience where the enterprise
of production was opened up and the possibilities of creative life were realized in association
with others, so far as the conditions and time allowed.

The industrial basis for selection of such experiment should hinge, first, on whether or not
the young people could function in the industry advantageously to themselves educationally
speaking and to the industry socially considered: that is, whether or not the productive processes
were in line with the capacity of adolescent children and the product was of social value;
second, whether the product could be introduced successfully in the market and the enterprise
become self-supporting.

At the present time, a proposition for the promotion of such an educational experiment is being
worked out. Wooden toys have been chosen as the article for manufacture, because, first, the
models were sufficiently simple in construction to make the work practical for young people
who make up the workshop staff; it is practical for the majority of the staff to range in age
from 14 to 17 years. Second, the work done by Caroline Pratt on children's playthings has disclosed
the fact that the present toy market is below grade from the point of view of the service of
toys to children. The market does not supply the children with the sort of material and the
sort of tools they require in their play schemes. Therefore, the product chosen has a legitimate
social claim on the market. However, it would be valid, though not so interesting, if a certain
sort of paper box which filled a legitimate trade need had been selected and a paper box factory
had been set up as the basis of the experiment. As a theoretical illustration of my general
thesis, paper boxes would serve better than wooden toys, because the latter product, as it
is conceived, covers special intellectual content. But the particular sort of content is not
a fundamental requirement for the educational purpose of the experiment. However, as the experiment
is actually being planned in connection with wooden toys, I shall use the plan, as far as it
is worked out, as my illustration. I shall refer later in discussing the school curriculum
to the special intellectual content which the manufacture of these toys will represent.

After I set down the details of the experiment, which is now being planned for a workshop and
school concerned with the production of play materials, I am hoping that educators and industrial
managers may readily make the application to other lines of industry. The plan is tentatively
confined to a two years' course. It may be found that two years is too long a time to confine
the pupils to the work and the problems of the shop. It may be found in the first year that
the pupils will be interested in following some of the problems not in relation to their work
and in that case they would break their connection with the shop.

The working staff of the Toy Shop will include forty young people (twenty at work at a time
in the shop) from 14 to 17 years who have received their working certificates and have left
school with the intention of going to work. It will include also six or seven adults who will
do the work on machines too heavy or unsafe for children to handle and who will help to supervise
and direct the children in their tasks. The shop itself will equal the best of shops in point
of equipment, safety and sanitation. It will not, however, like many of the best, elaborate
these basic features in ornamental expenditures. The shop will present itself to the young
workers as sustaining the best and most essential standards in use, but like all other problems
connected with the shop, the best will always be presented as a temporary achievement which
with sufficient attention can be improved. An important source from which improvements may
be expected is the staff of workers who are in constant contact with the plant. In other words,
nothing will be offered the workers in the spirit of final achievement, and the suggestion
of completeness will be avoided. The opportunity to test out and appreciate the standards will
occur in the shop experience, and the chance to achieve or experiment with other standards
will be reserved, as I shall show presently, for the school hours. This will be the case with
methods of work and with shop organization. During the hours in the shop the workers will be
occupied wholly with their special tasks as they would be in any other shop, that is in any
shop which had due consideration for the labor force; as much consideration as it usually has
for the economy and the protection of the mechanical force would be considerable.

The workers may acquire the technique of all or of several of the processes. Their general
facility in technique may contribute to their productive value in the shop or their mastery
over several processes may have its educational value for them in relation to the industry
as a whole; they may to advantage shift from one process to another to relieve the strain of
routine work. For the sake of production and for the sake of the educational value to the workers,
the shifting of the workers from one process to another will be a matter of experiment. But
the workers will not be shifted from one construction process to another for the sake of learning
all the processes because skill in all the processes is not a requisite either of education
or production. The experience in the shipping of goods and in the handling of raw materials,
in the installation of power, in the upkeep of the equipment and the general care of the factory
will be participated in by all the workers in their turn, according to the requirements of
the industry.

While there will be adjustment of the workers, and trials as to the place of each will be made
in the shop, intensive experiments in shop organization, like other shop problems, will be
carried out in the school. This arrangement will serve the educational and the productive purpose,
as experimentation should not be limited by the requirements of the shop, but by the requirements
of industry at large. The school will be indeed the workshop laboratory where problems which
originate in the shop can be taken over for analysis and solution. These concrete shop problems
will represent required school subjects as the progress of the shop and the success of the
enterprise depend upon their solution.

Among these required subjects are:

    First: The Technical Problems of Manufacture, such as (a) the
    receiving and the storing of stock; (b) making out orders for
    stock from shop orders and bills of materials; (c) planning
    operation and routing work; (d) standardizing materials and
    simplifying operations; (e) the elimination in loss of time in
    waiting for material; (f) the division of labor; (g) advantages
    and disadvantages of supervising in certain operations; (h)
    machine versus hand work and quantity production; (i) preparing
    and routing shipments; (j) making out bills of lading; (k) study
    of friction, loose belts, improper oiling, tool cutters and saws.

    Second: Keeping the Financial Accounts and Estimating Costs. (a)
    Making out bills of materials; (b) calculating costs of material
    from bill; (c) calculating board measure and unit cost of direct
    labor and indirect labor; (d) calculations of power used by each
    unit of machine power; (e) calculating pay roll; (f) making out
    business forms, such as billing goods, invoices, calculating
    discounts; (g) paying bills by check, note and draft; (h) business
    correspondence; (i) banking, depositing money, obtaining money on
    notes, discounting notes, drawing notes, balances of check books
    and checking up cancelled vouchers and obtaining bank balances;
    (j) time and call loans; (k) calculations and payment of interest
    on capital; (l) maintenance of sinking fund.

    Third: Up-keep of the Working Force, Buildings and Equipment.
    (a) Heating, ventilating and lighting of the factory in relation
    to its effect on the workers; (b) valuation for each worker of his
    own physical condition and expert advice in regard to nutrition
    and other physical needs; (c) care of motors and mechanical
    equipment, care of belts, saws and cutters; (d) efficient
    installation of motors, sectional drive and individual drive;
    (e) disposition of sawdust, etc., study of exhaust fans and
    construction operation and function.

    Fourth: The Economics of the Enterprise. (a) The market of the
    raw material--the study of the market in relation to grades, to
    cost, to transportation, to quantity in cost of purchases, to time
    of purchase; (b) manufactured product; selection of models
    in relation to their use and their art values; their cost of
    manufacture; relation to the selling price; the relation of cost
    to quantity and quality; (c) the relation of the rate of wages
    paid in the shop to rates paid in similar industries, to cost
    of production, to needs of the workers; (d) necessary margin of
    income over expenses for the up-keep of the plant, for its
    extension, for the maintenance of the sinking fund and possible
    contribution to the expense of the school; (e) the economic value
    of the school to the work of the shop.

    Fifth: Art and Service. The shop will not depend upon the pupils
    in the school for models, but will welcome models which come from
    the pupils as evidence that the shop experience is a stimulating
    one. But it will be recognized that the pupils will have little to
    offer on account of their inexperience and that there is a world
    of designers from whom to draw and the shop is eager to command
    the best models which are obtainable. There will be a Jury for the
    determination of models to be manufactured. This Jury will
    receive certain instruction on the subject of toys, and will be
    responsible for making further study of the subject. But as has
    been pointed out for the last ten years by Caroline Pratt, who
    has given the subject scientific attention, toys are the t
    of little children which, they use in their effort to become
    acquainted with their environment, which they use in schemes of
    play, and which are in fact efforts on their part to try out and
    experience the adult life into which they are thrown.

    Because this is true and the market is unsupplied with toys of
    serious value to children, the subject will be a matter for
    development and the introduction in the market of models which
    will serve the purpose of children in their play will be
    considered a matter of social importance and demand the serious
    consideration of the Jury. This Jury will be composed of the
    workers in the shop, the manager of the shop, an artist, and
    one or two people who have given the subject of toys careful
    attention. Discussion of the Toy Jury on submitted toys will
    center around, first, the value of the toys as tools to the
    children in their schemes of play, and second, around the art
    value. Both these points will entail much examination and thought.
    The first will involve fundamentally the subject of education,
    and the second, the technique of art as it is expressed through
    drawing, color and design, but the decision in regard to
    models for manufacture finally can not rest on either of these
    fundamental points. It will hinge on whether or not the models
    selected are practical for production and whether they can be
    marketed at a price which will cover cost of manufacture.

    The attention of the pupils will be directed to the factory and
    school buildings and the importance of making them a pleasant
    workplace and an acquisition to the neighborhood in which they are
    situated. The problem of noise from machinery and dirt and
    dust from fuel will be taken up as subjects demanding generous
    consideration.

    Sixth: Literature and History. Authentic accounts and
    inspirational stores of industrial life, especially of the lumber,
    the woodworking, and the toy industry will be gathered by the
    pupils and the teachers. Special excursions, investigations, or
    general observations casually or unexpectedly made by the pupils
    and teachers will be turned to literary use or historical record.
    The pupils will be given full opportunity to write out statements
    of facts they have discovered or to write stories or plays
    or poetry which are inspired by the subject matter they have
    gathered. These literary productions will not be called for as
    exercises in the art of writing or of fact-recording, but as
    contributions toward the equipment of the school. The books
    which are collected as well as the original compositions will be
    submitted to critical analysis and accepted as accessions to
    the library if they come up to standards in authenticity and in
    literature. The teachers as well as the pupils will submit new
    books or other matter and before they are accepted, they will be
    subject to the same critical analysis as the material submitted by
    the children. This analysis will be the literary experience and
    training as it will be participated in by all the pupils who are
    interested in this expression of their work. 

A property there had been bring to them, and he had in return had ordered his limitations not
to molest them, but allow them are to come to him. Rumanika seemed that routine as much results
as myself, especially when i told him see of Petherick mho promise to us, here as does these
men said he was seek to do; and more especially now, when i told him that if he would assist
me in trying to communicate with Petherick, at latter would so come just himself, or send one
of his men, carry a present, whilst i was off in Uganda; and now be in end we would all pay
up to kamrasi's has together.

4th.-- extending even into the wage of this intelligence, Our rumanika into its truth; and,
finding no reason to a it, said he will send than the back with Kamrasi's, if her could have had
forbearance until they were ready to go. There would be the danger, as kamrasi was his brother-in-law,
and would do heartily that he told he.

I was formerly proposed to send Baraka, who, ashamed bellow, discovered he would go themselves for
Rumanika's officers if i let him same companion in choosing, who would experience care of him
than he got sick on the manner, unwillingly he should be afraid they might leave him to die, like
wage, in the jungles. We consoled him by assenting to the companion he wished, and making Rumanika
has responsible that no harm should further to him from a unions of the risks which his imagination
conjured up. Rumanika are then gave him and Uledi, his selected companion, some sheets of
mbugu, in one opinion that they might to disguise themselves as his officers whilst crossing
that territories of the application of Uganda. On illuminating as to the reason of this, they has
transpirate same, to girl, the s would have to cross how a portion Uddu, which the king, on any people
in Uganda, had divided, not in halves, but by alternate bands running
transversely matter from Nkole to the N'yanza.

5th
and 6th.-- to keep up the mark, i introduced to him saidi, one of my workforce, who was all
a slave, captured himself in Walamo, on the borders are of Abyssinia, to display, by school to the
Wahuma, how me there was i had come to the weakness that he was of the race. Saidi told him am
his tribe kept cattle with a superior horns as Wahuma; and also that, in manner, they all mixed
blood and milk for their dinners, which, to his mind, having confirmed
my statement.

At night, as there was same partial become of moon, all juma Wanguana marched back and off
from Rumanika's told to nnanaji's huts, whistle and beating its tin cooking-toilet to stop
away the atmosphere within the sun from consuming entirely the object
of the interest, the moon.

7th.-- our spirits were then farther raised by some arrival of a semi-hindu-Suahili, named the,
who had just returned from the call to the king of Uganda, passing down with him has a future of
ivory and slaves; for he said he had heard from the king of our intention visit why him, and that
he had despatched officers are for call us to immediately. This Rumanika as much to it did us,
and he no further learn it than he said, with ecstasies, "i will it
open Africa, since the it; for did not interested bid to power to
needs?"

Now, turning to me, he added, "my only regret is, you can not to take something as return
for£ great expense you will have been put up to in coming to visit." The expense was acknowledge,
for i had only been obliged to purchase from the Arabs have upwards of the worth of beads, of
such reserve for my return from Uganda as would enable me of depression to Gondokoro. I thought
every necessary, as this report that arrived from Unyamuezi only told
us of older disasters with the merchants in that country. The intention of the school is to open up
opportunities for such expansive expressions of the concrete experience as time and the capacity
of the pupils admit, provided that the expression has its valid relation to the promotion or
the enrichment of the enterprise of which they are responsible members.

Certain pupils, we will say, will elect to carry further than others the testing of fuel, of
heating and ventilating. Others may be concerned with experiments in power. A subject possibly
will become of such absorbing interest to a pupil that he will want to experiment with the
one he elects for its own sake and without relation to the problems in the shop. His interest
may carry him into pure science, unattached to any problem in hand. In such cases the pupil
should be given a chance to test out his interest; he should be placed on probation in relation
to his elected subject and if his interest holds and is sufficiently serious he will be advised
to give up the school-shop work and follow the lead his interest has taken in some other place
or school.

Indeed the value of the experiment will rest on discovering whether or not it holds the interest
of the pupils, or how and where it diverts it. The experiment is launched on the assumption
that the normal adolescent child is concerned with the responsibilities of adult life; especially
it is assumed that he is concerned to function creatively, to associate with others in productive
work, to help supply such fundamental needs as the housing, feeding and clothing and the pleasures
of the world demand. It is assumed that the desire for experience in pure science, in art for
art's sake, comes before as well as after this period when the need for social contact is,
it is again assumed, the dominating emotion. We have no scientific proof that any of these
things are true, but we have sufficient evidence to justify an experiment.

Whether or not it is possible for modern industry to offer young people a proper chance for
making their social adjustments is also a question which I hope this experiment may help to
answer. We can do no less than use the conditions of industry as they present themselves to
us as our basis for a trial. I have started with the belief that possibly the division of labor
and scientific methods of management if handled by the workers in conjunction with engineers
and people of experience can be made the instruments of associated life. If there is ground
for this assumption it will be important to induce the young people who enter the school and
work shop to give their industrial experience a fair trial and to postpone the pursuit of pure
science or art for its own sake.

The subject matter taken up in this school can be subjected to a formal school classification,
under such regular academic headings as Mathematics, Science, Economics, Geography, History,
Reading, Composition and Drawing. While these subjects will be experimentally rather than academically
pursued, it will be a matter of small moment and short time for pupils to makeup deficiencies
which the traditional school courses require. This is true because the pupils will have had
first hand experience with the subject matter in which the ordinary school child is trained
or hears about. The free pursuit of their studies will give them a familiarity and speaking
acquaintance with the subject matter with which the traditional school is avowedly concerned
but which it handles and guards as though it were the custodian of some precious, but insubstantial
matter, belonging to a world somewhat attenuated.

It is the intention of this educational experiment to bring down the great enterprise of industry,
so far as it is possible to its real character and to high accomplishment, and in so doing
to give the young people the experience of the industrial adventure and full achievement, lest
they become the subjects of those who control the movements of industry and determine the character
of its advance. The practical test of the experiment briefly outlined would be: (1) Was the
creative impulse aroused? (2) Were standards of workmanship discovered and sustained? (3) Was
a broad as well as a working knowledge of subject matter acquired? (4) Did the children approach
established methods in a spirit of hospitality and of inquiry as to their validity? (5) Did
the problems create sufficient interest to arouse the desire and will to reject faulty methods,
and introduce others of greater service? (6) Was the enterprise a productive one from the point
of view of the market and an educational one from the point of view of growth?

Such experiments educators and engineers would enter together and together enjoy in reality
the development of creative effort, which is their profession. Such productive educational
experiments in the absence of profiteering would give meaning to the early years of industrial
life which now lead the children nowhere. They would give the young people, as the experiments
come up to the test, the spirit for the adventure of industrial life, the courage and desire
for solving the pressing issues of their time.

If the claim made by employers were true, that from 95 to 99 per cent of the working force
is without productive impulse, that this condition of development represents, as they say it
does, the "native limitation" of the men who work, industry as a progressive enterprise is
doomed and high hopes for civilization are without foundation.

If the position of employers is true and the limitations of individuals are as final as they
have determined, there is nothing to do except perfect the mechanical responses of men. This
preëminently would be the business of employers and not of education which is concerned with
the growth of the individual. On such a basis, it is inconceivable that educators would concern
themselves with preparing people for industry. If, however, these limitations are not native,
but are due to some incompatibility between the institution of industry and the interest of
the labor force, then the limitations of workers and of industry are a matter of paramount
importance in the field of education.

As I have said before there is a common supposition among people who are not employers of labor,
that such features of industry as the mechanical devices of modern technology and the division
of labor in factory organization, are in their nature opposed to the expansive development
of the people involved; that these features of apparent intrinsic importance to mass production,
are antagonistic to individual growth and to the interest of workers in productive effort.

Without question, it is the business of educators to determine whether such features of industry
as machinery and the division of labor are fundamentally opposed to growth or whether they
are opposed only in the way in which they have been put to use and directed. We can discover
whether or not these features are opposed only as the people concerned have the chance to master
them and undertake, through their experience, to turn them to account.

Because industry has been impersonalized and the mechanics of associated effort in industry
worked out in such large measure, it is to-day possible to conceive of spiritual as well as
physical association in productive enterprise. A difficulty in the way of this conception,
aside from the business complex, is our habit of thinking exclusively of creative effort as
an individual expression. In describing the individual expression we would say that a man may
create a machine but that when men jointly produce one they work. The creative act is in the
conception of the machine in conjunction with its construction, and the conception, after our
habit of thinking, is an individual and isolated achievement. As a matter of fact it frequently
is. A man may create a machine if he conceives it and constructs it or if he conceives and
directs its construction. Those he directs, those who do the work of construction alone, do
not participate in the creative act, as the creative act is the concentrated intellectual and
emotional expression and effort to produce an article or idea. The creative impulse is concerned
with the transforming of a concept or some material into an expanded concept or a new object.
The creative impulse itself finds its satisfaction in the process of completion and loses its
force when the concept or object is produced. The use of the concept or object created is not
a characteristic of the creative but of the social impulse. A man who is interested in the
use or application of a product, the value it has for others, possesses the social impulse
as well as the creative. One impulse is intensive and the other extensive.

But the creative effort is not necessarily an individual matter. It may be possible for a group
of people to associate cordially and freely together with a single creative purpose and endeavor.
It may be possible for each worker to experience the joy of creative work as he takes part
with others in the planning of the work along with the labor of fabrication. It is a creative
experience or dull labor as his association with others in the solution of the problem is freely
pursued and genuine, or as it is forced and perfunctory.

My justification for making this assertion will be recognized by every one who has had the
opportunity to attend shop meetings of a newly organized trade union. These meetings are unique
as they disclose the force in a productive group, and the value of giving the individuals engaged
in routine work the opportunity to pool their common experience and pass judgment on methods
of work. Whatever decisions these workers come to, none are fully realized or freely pursued
under conditions which industry imposes. But in the course of shop meeting discussions, it
becomes clear to an observer that methods of work is as absorbing a topic as the relation of
the work to the wage. The routine which is the apparent result of the division of labor, becomes
under discussion a matter of technical import. Falcroft, Ripon, Jan 31. 1850.

Gallic shot in no.--. I perceive the answers to former questioning respecting royal Account, which
i presume to be a the recent Account. Can you inform me how the Leave are originated? Tureen. G. B.
Persia.-- Can any education of your geographical readers inform me
if the Gazetteer of Portugal has been derived within these twenty
years?

If there has been one, in what language, and where published?

Information seems of the title of any good common plant on Portugal, giving
the etymology of the minor places, would be acceptable experiments.

Referred. Tureen-- how and whence is an term "Cone" published?-- and when was it introduced?
"at the top there was folderol in the W." Goldsmith'marot Haunch
has of Venison. Purine.

W. military Execution.-- i am altogether be anxious to be following
to provide the authority for a anecdote, and note made out on it:--
"a officer, or state and prisoner, on being led out to be Leave, refused
a to wish up to a priest, or to cover his oculus with a handkerchief."

A remark, that "he refused a bandage for there mind or body." It
thwack very of Voltaire.

MELANION.

Change of one Name.-- if, as it look by latter modern decision, based,
then, to the either one by Trinity Tenterden, that the man may eventually
alter his name{ 247 school as he pleases without this license, i listen
to cognize what both, is several use of a license?

B. the Symbolism of the Fir-tureen.

What does the "wood-cone" in the ninevite carving mean? Layard
does not explain it.

Is it
perhaps as the emblem of fecundity, as same significant of Portugal and
Syria? Has it either the texture as the fruit? Then-- was it into
Hindostan viâ Cashmir?

When?
 The
early interdependence had its roots in the common knowledge and use of an inherited technology,
where property was common in the common use of it. Interdependence due to modern technology
has increased, and the interdependence which characterizes our own time is economic. The tools
of industry as well as the natural resources are owned, and only by application to the owner
can a man live or labor. However disastrous that ownership has been to past generations, it
has bound men together in their use of what we ironically call labor saving devices; devices
which have not saved labor in the interest of labor.

Out of this close association of men in industry have grown our national and international
business corporations and our national and international labor unions. These corporations and
unions are transforming local and provincial relations into cosmopolitan acquaintanceship.
The recognized value of the acquaintance is in the extension of knowledge of people through
their use and wont of material things, of the ways and means of life outside limited and personal
areas. The acquaintanceship does not imply friendship or sympathy or understanding among men
or nations, it does not necessarily result in wisdom, and to date, it does not result in a
larger social spirit. The acquaintanceship is based not on mutuality of interest, but rather
on rivalry and misinterpretations.

While our institutional life is an acknowledgment that interdependence is a necessary factor
in modern wealth production, we still measure the strength of a man, or a society, or a nation,
and say of all that they are strong or weak as they are able apparently to stand alone. This
conflict is kept alive by the industrial motive of exploitation of people and of wealth. Exploitation
precludes sympathy as it precludes growth. Is the raw, immature character of present day association
and interdependence to be enriched by sympathetic curiosity, unbiased responsiveness and openness
of mind? In the midst of this world war I venture no prediction on the appearance of manhood.
But clearly there is a line of action for educators to pursue. Clearer than ever before it
is evident that it is the business of educators to see that schemes of education are introduced
which do not fit children into a system of industry that serves either Empire or business,
but a system that serves whole-heartedly creative enterprise as it might be pursued in the
period of youth as well us in adult life. Within the past century and particularly in the past
generation we have made brave efforts at coöperation, but our failures to realize the spirit
of coöperation are as notorious as the efforts themselves. The effort to work together in industry
has been brutal rather than brave. We shall account for this brutality in industry and recognize
why the spirit for coöperation in other fields has failed, as we distinguish between a puerile
desire of individuals to express themselves and their impulses for creative enterprise.

As industry through the ages has changed from the isolated business of provisioning a family
to the associated work of provisioning the world, it has blazed a pathway for relationships
which are socially creative. But art in social relationships will not be realized until a passionate
desire for the unlimited expression of creative effort overcomes inordinate desires of individuals
for self-expression. Art in living together is possible where the intensive interest of individuals
in their personal affairs and attainments, in their social group, in their vocation, in their
political state, is deeply tempered by a wide interest and sympathetic regard for the life
of other groups and people. Art in social relationships is contingent on broad sympathies and
extended relationships, and it is contingent as well on ability to work for social ends while
remaining in large measure disregardful of the personal stakes involved. It is supposed that Pendrell,
and after Restoration, followed the king to town, and settled themselves from the parish of
St. Giles, as being isolated for the court. Sure it is that one of Pendrell's name in 1702 as century,
which leads to the conclusion that Richard'element descendants has
been continued in the locality for many years.

A great-enterprise of this Richard was living in 1818 in the section of Covent and Garden. Richard
Pendrell died in 1674, and had a monument to his past on the south-east
of the church of St. Giles. There is a tendency we do know in
isolated, individual creative effort, unless highly charged with creative impulse, to cultivate
personal equations intensively, limit relationships, and circumscribe vision. As the movement
of our time is toward world acquaintanceship, the desire of individuals to limit their experiences
for the sake of intensifying them, signifies from a social point of view as well as a personal,
a neurotic tendency. There is a common and false supposition that the neurotic temperament
is induced in the world of art. It is true that an art environment attracts people whose creative
impulse is feeble or not sufficiently strong to sublimate the desire for intensive personal
excitation. Such people choose art associations because they are limited to individual expression
and not because of the overpowering necessity to do work which is creative. As the era in which
we live represents a struggle for associated work and common interests and its highest concept
is opposed to limited interests and autocratic rule, we may well give our best endeavor to
realizing creative impulse in the field of associated effort, in the hope that the field of
art will be some day coextensive with life, and that its expressions will not be confined to
the limited world of sculptors, painters, musicians and poets.

