The presence of President Wilson did much to maintain the idealism that jostled national self-seeking
in the final drafting of the treaties. Though he lacked the political brilliance of Lloyd George
and had not the suppressed but irresistible vehemence that characterized Clemenceau, his very
simplicity of argument availed much. He was not destined to carry through the full programme
of idealism as set out in the Fourteen Points, at least not as interpreted by most liberals.
He could not secure the peace of reconciliation which he had planned, but even with his popularity
in France, Belgium, and Italy lost, and his prestige dimmed, he retained such a strong position
in the Council of Four that he was able to block some of the more extreme propositions advanced
by imperialist elements, and, more positively, to secure what he had most at heart, the League
of Nations. Whether he yielded more than he gained is a question which demands more detailed
consideration.

CHAPTER XI

BALANCE OF POWER OR LEAGUE OF NATIONS?

Whatever mistakes President Wilson made at Paris, he did not greatly underestimate the difficulties
of his task when he set forth from the United States. The liberal utterances of the Allied
chiefs during the war had never succeeded in winning his sincere confidence; more than once
he had even intimated that he did not consider their governments completely representative
of public opinion. He anticipated a struggle with Clemenceau and Lloyd George over the amount
of indemnity which was to be demanded from Germany, as well as over the territory of which
she was to be deprived. Their formal approval of the Fourteen Points had been a cause of intense
satisfaction to him, but he realized definitely that they would make every effort to interpret
them in terms of purely national self-interest. This he regarded as the greatest difficulty
to be met at Paris. The second difficulty lay in the extreme demands that were being made by
the smaller nationalities, now liberated from Teuton dominion or overlordship. Poland, Rumania,
Serbia, Greece, were all asking for territory which could only be assigned to them on the ancient
principle of the division of spoils among the victors. The spirit of nationalism which had
played a rôle of so much importance in the antecedents of the war, as well as in the downfall
of the Central Empires, now threatened to ruin the peace. As we have seen, it was partly because
of this second danger that Wilson agreed to the exclusion of the smaller states from the Supreme
Council of the Allies.

Upon the details of the treaties, whether of an economic or a territorial character, the President
did not at first lay great stress. He was interested chiefly in the spirit that lay behind
the treaties. The peace, he insisted, must be one of justice and, if possible, one of reconciliation.
More concretely, the great point of importance was the establishment of a League of Nations;
for the President believed that only through the building up of a new international system,
based upon the concert of all democratic states, could permanent justice and amity be secured.
Only a new system could suffice to prevent the injustice that great states work upon small,
and to stamp out the germs of future war. It would be the single specific factor that would
make this treaty different from and better than treaties of the past. The ultimate origin of
the great war was less to be sought in the aspirations and malevolence of Germany, he believed,
than in the disorganized international system of Europe. Unless that were radically reformed,
unless a régime of diplomatic coöperation were substituted for the Balance of Power, neither
justice nor peace could last. The old system had failed too often.

Wilson does not seem to have formulated definitely before he reached Paris the kind of League
which he desired to see created. He was opposed to such intricate machinery as that proposed
by the League to Enforce Peace, and favored an extremely simple organization which might evolve
naturally to meet conditions of the future. The chief organ of a League, he felt, should be
an executive council, possibly composed of the ambassadors to some small neutral power. If
trouble threatened in any quarter, the council was to interfere at once and propose a settlement.
If this proved unsuccessful, a commercial boycott might be instituted against the offending
state: it was to be outlawed, and, as Wilson said, "outlaws are not popular now." He regarded
it as important that the German colonies should not be divided among the Allies, but should
be given to the League, to be administered possibly through some smaller power; for an institution,
he felt, is always stabilized by the possession of property.

Such were, broadly speaking, the ideas which seemed uppermost in the President's mind when
he landed in France, and which he was determined should form the basis of the peace. He anticipated
opposition, and he was in a measure prepared to fight for his ideals. But he failed adequately
to appreciate the confusion which had fallen upon Europe, after four years and more of war,
and which made the need of a speedy settlement so imperative. If he had gauged more accurately
the difficulties of his task he would have been more insistent upon the drafting of a quick
preliminary peace, embodying merely general articles, and leaving all the details of the settlement
to be worked out by experts at their leisure. He might thus have utilized his popularity and
influence when it was at its height, and have avoided the loss of prestige which inevitably
followed upon the discussion of specific issues, when he was compelled to take a stand opposed
to the national aspirations of the various states. Such a general preliminary treaty would
have gone far towards restoring a basis for the resumption of normal political and economic
activity; it would have permitted Wilson to return to the United States as the unquestioned
leader of the world; it would have blunted the edge of senatorial opposition; and finally it
might have enabled him to avoid the controversies with Allied leaders which compelled him to
surrender much of his original programme in a series of compromises.

It is only fair to Wilson to remember that his original plan, in November, was to secure such
a preliminary treaty, which was to embody merely the general lines of a territorial settlement
and the disarmament of the enemy. The delays which postponed the treaty were not entirely his
fault. Arriving in France on the 13th of December, he expected that the Conference would convene
on the seventeenth, the date originally set. But days passed and neither the French nor the
British took steps toward the opening of negotiations. They had not even appointed their delegates.
Lloyd George sent messages of welcome from across the Channel, but explained that domestic
affairs detained him in England. Conscious of the struggle that was likely to arise between
the "practical" aspirations of Europe and the "idealism" of America, the Allied leaders evidently
were in no hurry to give to the exponent of the ideal the advantage of the popular support
that he enjoyed during the early days following his arrival upon European shores. Harry, on the
make, is gloomily other, and by a aid of that faculty undoubtedly annihilates his opponents
without saying anything. But last, Harry takes up the theme and treats it in a spirit becoming an figure of
the subject.

He thinks that the artist formed the figure according to the pattern, having an hot "corpse" also by the
life, from which he could take "useful measurement," and proceeded to hand this figure, not attempting,
he says, to make this treaty like beginning the "artistic gravity," which surely was modest in
the artist. He wisely says that he did not try to "statue the hair." This question very naturally arises
thereby, "why was the hair missing, and how necessary had a corpse been a corpse to lose its hair?
and was it a occupation to do business with such a corpse?" The omission (i. Starting. to its
put on cadaver), favor says, arose from "inexperience."

That, experience is also the past, and when properly acquired and surely used is very of satirical enable
to world. But that it was human, in order to benefit this artist to know now hair grows on
beginning the head, we had not before supposed.

Into such absurdities, oh Harry, does he run who abandons his familiar scissors for the unaccustomed
scholarship.

I will briefly refer to a letter on Rev. Second. R. calthrop in Dick of a supply theory. While
it shows the pen of its author, his thorough appreciation of living influences, and the wonderful
mimesis of his nature were detached by the one who formed the figure, if it does not seem to me
to go utterly far towards proving his position. E off delays with the
Lloyd idea that many occasion may be given against the theory of petrification,
he commences with number one, and then he stops; it is other he gives
one considerable reason, but neglects to number it; and the two reasons
are-- first, that evidences of stratification appear on the body,
here assume that they would not appear in a petrified body; and, secondly,
that the missing members of the body are not produced in each other
as they were in model, assuming conveniently that this does occur
in cases of petrifaction.

 At all events, the League of Nations was given
an important place on the programme of deliberations, and at the second of the plenary sessions
of the Conference, held on January 25, 1919, the principle of a League was approved without
a dissentient voice; it was also decided that the League should be made an integral part of
the Treaty. Wilson, in addition to acquiring British support had won that of the Italians,
to whom he had promised his aid in securing the Brenner frontier in the Tyrol. Clemenceau,
according to an American delegate, "had climbed on the band-wagon."

The President's victory was emphasized when he also won the Europeans and the representatives
of the British overseas Dominions to acceptance of the principle of "mandatories," according
to which the German colonies were not to be distributed as spoils amongst the victors, but
to become the property of the League and to be administered by the mandatory states, not for
their own benefit but for that of the colonies. The victory was not complete, since Wilson's
first intention had been that the mandatory states should not be the great powers, but such
states as Holland or one of the Scandinavian nations. He was compelled to admit the right of
the British and French to take over the colonies as mandatories. Even so, the struggle over
the issue was intense, Premier Hughes of Australia leading the demand that the German colonies
should be given outright to the Allies and the British self-governing Dominions. Again the
support of Lloyd George brought success to the American policy.

