"Of what you wanted me to do?" Valerie asked. "Yes, it was quite natural, I think, and partly
because of your manoeuvers, my poor Jack. I understand it all now. But the cause you espoused
was already a doomed one, you see."

"Oh!" he almost groaned. "You doomed it! Don't you feel any pity for him?"

Valerie continued to look at her page, silently, for a moment, and it was now indeed as though
his question found some reverberating echo in herself. But, in the silent moment, she thought
it out swiftly and surely, grasping old clues.

"No, Jack," she said, and she was giving herself, as well as him, the final answer, "I don't
pity him. He will never see Imogen baffled, warped, at bay,--as we have. He will always see
her crowned, successful, radiant. She will count tremendously over there, far more than I ever
would, because she's so different, because she cares such a lot. And Imogen must count to be
radiant. She will help him in all sorts of ways, give him a new life; she will help everybody.
Do you remember what Eddy said of her, that if it weren't for people of the Imogen type the
cripples would die off like anything!--That was true. She is one of the people who make the
wheels of the world go round. And it's a revival for a man like Sir Basil to live with such
a person. With me he would have faded back into the onlooker at life; with Imogen he will live.
And then, above all, quite above all, he is in love with her. I think that he fell in love
with her at first sight, as Antigone, at her loveliest, except for to-night; to-night was her
very loveliest--because it was so real;--she would have claimed him from me--before me--if
he had come then; and her belief in herself, didn't you see, Jack, how it illumined her?--And
then, Jack, and this I'm afraid you are forgetting, Imogen is a good girl, a very good girl.
I can trust him to her, you know. Her object in life will be to love him in the most magnificent
way possible. His happiness will be as much of an end to her as her own."

It was, perhaps, the culminating symptom of his initiation, of his transformation, when Jack,
who had considered her while she spoke, standing perfectly still, his hands in his pockets,
his head bent, his eyes steadily on her, now, finding nothing better to do than obey her first
suggestion and go to bed, took her hand before going, put it to his lips--and his glance, as
he kissed her hand, brought the tears, again, to Valerie's eyes--and said: "Damn goodness."

XXIX

Imogen was, indeed, crowned and radiant. And, safe on her eminence, recovered from the breathlessness
of her rather unbecoming vigorous ascent, she found her old serenity, her old benignity, safely
enfolded her once more. In looking down upon the dusty lowlands, where she had been blind and
bitter, she could afford to smile over herself, even to shake her head a little over the vehemence
of her own fear and courage. It was to have lacked faith, to have lacked wisdom, the showing
of such vehemence; yet, who knew, without it, perhaps, she might not have escaped the nets
that had been laid for her feet, for Basil's feet, too, his strong and simple nature making
him helpless before sly ambushes. Jack, in declaring himself her enemy, had effectually killed
the last faint wailing that had so piteously, so magnanimously, sounded on for him in her heart.
He had, by his trickster's dexterity, proved to her, if she needed proof, that she had chosen
the higher. A man who could so stoop--to lies--was not the man for her. To say nothing of his
iniquity, his folly was apparent. For Jack had behaved like a fool, he must see that himself,
in his espousal of a lost cause.

Jack as delinquent stood plain, and she would accuse no one else. In the bottom of Imogen's
heart lingered, however, the suspicion that only when her mother had seen the cause as lost,
the contest as useless, had she hastily assumed the dignified attitude that, for the dizzy,
moonlit moment, had, so humiliatingly, sealed her, Imogen, into the magic bottle. Imogen suspected
that she hadn't been so wrong, nor her mother so magnanimous as had then appeared, and this
secret suspicion made it the easier for her to accept the seeming, since to do that was to
show herself anybody's equal in magnanimity. She was quite sure that her mother, in her shallow
way, had cared for Basil, and not at all sure that she had relinquished her hope at the first
symptom of his change of heart. But, though one couldn't but feel stern at the thought, one
couldn't, also, repress something of pity for the miscalculation of the defeated love. To feel
pity, moreover, was to show herself anybody's equal in heart;--Jack's accusations rankled.

Yes; considering all things, and in spite of the things that, she must always suspect, were
hidden, her mother had behaved extremely well.

"And above all," Imogen thought, summing it up in terms at once generous and apt, "she has
behaved like the gentlewoman that she is. With all her littlenesses, all her lacks, mama is
essentially that." And the sweetest moments of self-justification were those in which her heart
really ached a little for "poor mama," moments in which she wondered whether the love that
had come to her, in her great sorrow, high among the pine woods, had ever been her mother's
to lose. The wonder made her doubly secure and her mother really piteous.

It was easy, her heart stayed on such heights, to suffer very tolerantly the little stings
that flew up to her from the buzzing, startled world. Jack she did not see again, until the
day of her wedding, only a month later, and then his face, showing vaguely among the shimmering
crowd, seemed but an empty mask of the past. Jack departed early on the morning after her betrothal,
and it was only lesser wonders that she had to face. Mary's was the one that teased most, and
Imogen might have felt some irritation had that not now been so inappropriate a sensation,
before Mary's stare, a stare that seemed to resume and take in, in the moment of stupefaction,
a world of new impressions. The memory of Mary staring, with her hair done in a new and becoming
way, was to remain for Imogen as a symbol of the vexatious and altered, perhaps the corrupted
life, that she was, after all, leaving for good in leaving her native land.

"Sir Basil!--You are going to marry Sir Basil, Imogen!" said Mary.

"Yes, dear. Does that surprise you? Haven't you, really, seen it coming?--We fancied that everyone
must be guessing, while we were finding it out for ourselves," Imogen answered, ever so gently.

"No, I never saw it, never dreamed of it."

"It seemed so impossible? Why, Mary dear?"

"I don't know;--he is so much older;--he isn't an American;--you won't live in your own country;--I
never imagined you marrying anyone but an American."

The deepest wonder, Imogen knew it very well, was the one she could not express:--I thought
that he was in love with your mother.

Imogen smiled over the simplicity of the spoken surprises. "I don't think that the question
of years separates people so at one as Basil and I," she said. "You would find how little such
things meant, Mary mine, if your calm little New England heart ever came to know what a great
love is. As for my country, my country will be my husband's country, but that will not make
me love my old home the less, nor make me forget all the things that life has taught me here,
any more than I shall be the less myself for being a bigger and better self as his wife." And
Imogen looked so uplifted in saying it that poor, bewildered Mary felt that Mrs. Upton, after
all, was right, one couldn't tell where rightness was. Such love as Imogen's couldn't be wrong.
All the same, she was not sorry that Imogen, all transfigured as she undoubtedly was, should
be going very far away. Mary did not feel happy with Imogen any longer.

Rose took the tidings in a very unpleasant manner; but then Rose didn't count; in any circumstances
her effrontery went without saying. One simply looked over it, as in this case, when it took
the form of an absolute silence, a white, smiling silence.

Oddly enough, from the extreme of Rose's anger, came Eddy's chance. She didn't tell Eddy that
she saw his mother as robbed and that, in silence, her heart bled for her; but she did say
to him, several days after Imogen's announcement, that, yes, she would.

"I know that I should be bound to take you some day, and I'd rather do it just now when your
mother has quite enough bothers to see to without having your anxieties on her mind! I'll never
understand anyone so well as I do you, or quarrel with anyone so comfortably;--and besides,"
Rose added with characteristic impertinence, "the truth is, my dear, that I want to be your
mother's daughter. It's that that has done it. I want to show her how nice a daughter can be
to her. I want to take Imogen's place. I'll be an extremely bad wife, Eddy, but a good daughter-in-law.
I adore your mother so much that for her sake I'll put up with you."

Eddy said that she might adore any one as much as she liked so long as she allowed him to put
up with her for a lifetime. They did understand each other, these two, and Valerie, though
a little troubled by the something hard and bright in their warring courtship, something that,
she feared, would make their path, though always illuminated, often rough, could welcome her
new daughter with real gladness.

"I know that you'll never care for me, as I do for you," said Rose, "and that you will often
scold me; but your scoldings will be my religion. Don't spare them. You are my ideal, you know."

This speech, made in her presence, was, Imogen knew, intended as a cut at herself. She heard
it serenely. But Rose was more vexatious than Mary in that she wasn't leaving her behind. Rose
was already sparring with Eddy as to when he would take her over to England for a season of
hunting. Eddy firmly held himself before her as a poor man, and when Rose dangled her own wealth
before him remarked that she could, of course, go without him, if she liked. It was evident,
in spite of sparring and hardness, that Rose wouldn't like at all; and evident, too, that Eddy
would often be wheedled into a costly holiday. Imogen had to foresee a future of tolerance
toward Rose. Their worlds would not do more than merge here and there.

Imogen had, already, very distinct ideas as to her new world. It hovered as important and political;
the business of Rose's world would be its relaxation only. For Imogen would never change colors,
and her frown for mere fashion would be as sad as ever. She was not to change, she was only
to intensify, to become "bigger and better." And this essential stability was not contradicted
by the fact that, in one or two instances, she found herself developing. She was glad, and
in the presence of Mrs. Wake, gravely to renounce past errors as to the English people. Since
coming to know Basil, typical of his race, its flower, as he was, she had come to see how far
deeper in many respects, how far more evolved that English character was than their own,--"their,"
now, signifying "your." "You really saw that before I did, dear Mrs. Wake," said Imogen.

Already Imogen identified herself with her future husband so that the defects of the younger
civilization seemed no longer her affair, except in so far as her understanding of them, her
love of her dear country, and her new enlightenments, made her the more eager to help. And
then they were all of the same race; she was very insistent on that; it was merely that the
branch to which she now belonged was a "bigger and better branch." Imogen was none the less
a good American for becoming so devoutly English. From her knowledge of the younger, more ardent,
civilization, her long training in its noblest school, she could help the old in many ways.
England, in these respects, was like her Basil, before she had wakened him. Imogen felt that
England, too, needed her. And there was undoubtedly a satisfaction in flashing that new world
of hers, so large, so in need of her,--in flashing it, like a bright, and, it was to be hoped,
a somewhat dazzling object, before the vexatiously imperturbable eyes of Mrs. Wake. Mrs. Wake's
dry smile of congratulation had been almost as unpleasant as Rose's silence.

From Miss Bocock there was neither smile, nor sting, nor silence to endure. Miss Bocock had
suspected nothing, either on the mother's side or on the daughter's, and took the announcement
very placidly. "Indeed. Really. How very nice. Accept my congratulations," were her comments.
Imogen at once asked her to spend a week-end at Thremdon Hall next Spring, and Miss Bocock
in the same way said: "Thanks. That will be very nice. I've never stayed there." There was
still a subtle irritation in the fact that while Miss Bocock now accepted her, in the order
of things, as one of the "county people," as the gracious mistress of Thremdon Hall, as very
much above a country doctor's family, she didn't seem to regard her with any more interest
or respect as an individual.

These, after all, were the superficialities of the situation; its deeper aspects were, Imogen
felt, as yet unfaced. Her mother seemed quite content to let Imogen's silence stand for apology
and retractation, quite willing to go on, for the little further that they had to go together,
in an ambiguous relation. This was, indeed, Imogen felt, her mother's strength; she could,
apparently, put up with any amount of ambiguity and probably looked upon it as an essential
part of life. Perhaps, and here Imogen was conscious of a twinge of anxiety, she put up with
it so quietly because she didn't recognize it in herself, in her own motives and actions; and
this thought teased at Imogen until she determined that she must stand forth in the light and
show her mother that she, too, was self-assured and she, too, magnanimous.

She armed herself for the task by a little talk with Sir Basil, the nearest approach they ever
allowed themselves to the delicate complexities in which they had come to recognize each other
and out of which, to a certain extent, they had had to fight their way to the present harmony.
She was with him, again, among the laurels, a favorite place with them, and Imogen sat on her
former ledge of sunny rock and Sir Basil was extended beside her on the moss. She had been
reading Emerson to him, and when the essay was finished and she had talked to him a little
about the "over-soul,"--dear Basil's recollections of metaphysics were very confused,--she
presently said to him, letting her hand slide into his while she spoke:--"Basil, dearest,--I
want to ask you something, and you must answer very truly, for you need never fear that I would
flinch from any truth. Tell me,--did you ever,--ever care for mama?"

Sir Basil, his hat tilted over his eyes, grew very red and looked down at the moss for some
moments without replying.

"Of course I know that, in some sense, you did care," said Imogen, a faint tremble in her voice,
a tremble that, in its sweet acquiescence to something that was hurting her, touched him infinitely.
"I know, too, that there are loves and loves. I know that anything you may have felt for mama
is as different from what you feel for me as lamplight is from daylight. I won't speak of it,
ever, again, dear Basil; but for this once let me see clearly what was in your past."

"I did care for her," Sir Basil jerked out at that;--"quite tremendously, until I saw you.
She will always be a dear friend, one of the dearest, most charming people I've ever known.
And, no, it wasn't like lamplight, you know";--something in that analogy was so hurting Sir
Basil that it made him, for a moment, forget his darling's hurt;--"that wasn't it. Though,
it's quite true, you're like daylight."

"And--and--she?"--Imogen accepted the restatement, though her voice trembled a little more.

He now looked up at her, a clear, blue ray from his honest eyes. "Well, there, you know, it
has been a relief. I could never tell, in the past; she showed me nothing, except that friendship;
but since she has been free, since I've seen her over here, she has shown me quite clearly,
that it was, on her side, only that."

Imogen was silent for a long time. She didn't "know" at all. And there was a great deal to
accept; more, oddly enough, than she had ever faced. She had always believed that it had been
like lamplight to daylight. But, whatever it had been, the day had conquered it. And how dear,
how noble of her lover to show, so unfalteringly, his loyalty to the past. It was with a sigh
made up of many satisfactions that she said at last:--"Dear mama;--I am so glad that I took
nothing she cared for from her."

It was on that afternoon that she found her time for "standing forth in the light" before her
mother.

She didn't want it to be indoors; she felt, vaguely, that four walls would make them too intimate,
as it were; shut them into their mutual consciousness too closely. So that when she saw her
mother, after tea, watering and gathering her flowers at the edge of the wood, she went out
to her, across the grass, sweet and mild in the long white dress that she had worn since joy
had come to her.

She wished to be very direct, very simple, very sweet.

"Mama, darling," she said, standing there beside her while Valerie, after a quiet glance up
at her, continued to cut her roses;--"I want to say something to you. This seems such a beautiful
time to say deep, grave things in, doesn't it, this late afternoon hour? I've wanted to say
it since the other night when, through poor Jack's folly of revenge and blindness, we were
all put into such an ugly muddle, at such ugly cross-purposes." She paused here and Valerie,
giving neither assent nor negation, said: "Yes, Imogen?"

"I want to say to you that I am sorry, mama dear";--Imogen spoke gravely and with emphasis;--"sorry,
in the first place, that I should so have misjudged you as to imagine that--at your time of
life and after your sobering experience of life--you were involved in a love affair. I see,
now, what a wrong that was to do to you--to your dignity, your sense of right and fitness.
And I'm sorrier that I should have thought you capable of seconding Jack's attempts to keep
from me a love that had drawn to me as a magnet to the north. The first mistake led to the
second. I had heard your friends conjecturing as to your feeling for Basil, and the pain of
suspecting that of you--my father's new-made widow--led me astray. I think that in any great
new experience one's whole nature is perhaps a little off-balance, confused. I had suffered
so much, in so many ways;--his death;--Jack's unworthiness;--this fear for you;--and then,
in these last days, for what you know, mama, for him, because of him--my father, a suffering
that no joy will ever efface, that I was made, I think, for a little time, a stranger to myself.
And then came love--wonderful love--and it shook my nature to its depths. I was dazzled, torn,
tempest-tossed;--I did not see clearly. Let that be my excuse."

Valerie still stopped over her roses, her fingers delicately, accurately busy, and her face,
under the broad brim of her hat, hidden.

Again Imogen paused, the rhythm of her words, like an echo of his voice in her own, bringing
a sudden sharp, sweet, reminiscence of her father, so that the tears had risen to her eyes
in hearing herself. And again, for all reply, her mother once more said only: "Yes, Imogen."

It was not the reply she had expected, not the reply that she had a right to expect, and, even
out there, with the flowers, so impersonally lovely, about them, the late radiance softly bathing
them, as if in rays of forgiveness and mild pity, even with the tears, evidences of sorrow
and magnanimity, in her eyes, Imogen felt a little at a loss, a little confused.

"That is, all, mama," she said;--"just that I am sorry, and that I want you to feel, in spite
of all the sad, the tragic things that there have been between us, that my deep love for you
is there, and that you must trust it always."

And now there was another silence. Valerie stooping to her flowers, mysterious, ambiguous indeed,
in her shadow, her silence.

Imogen, for all the glory of her mood, felt a thrill of anger, and the reminiscence that came
to her now was of her father's pain, his familiar pain, for such shadows, such silences, such
blights cast upon his highest impulses. "I hope, mama, that you will always trust my love,"
she said, mastering the rising of her resentment.

And once more came the monotonous answer, but given this time with a new note:--"Yes, Imogen,"
her mother replied, "you may always trust my love."

She rose at that, and her eyes passed swiftly across her daughter's face, swiftly and calmly.
She was a little flushed, but that might have been from the long bending over the flowers,
and if it was a juggling dexterity that she used, she had used it indeed so dexterously that
it seemed impossible to say anything more. Imogen could find no words in which to set the turned
tables straight.

She had imagined their little scene ending very beautifully in a grave embrace and kiss; but
no opportunity was given her for this final demonstration of her spirit of charity. Her mother
gathered up her scissors, her watering-pot, her trowel, and handing Imogen the filled basket
of roses said, "Will you carry these for me, my dear?"

The tone of quiet, everyday kindness dispelled all glory, and set a lower standard. Here, at
this place, very much on the earth, Imogen would always find her, it seemed to say. It said
nothing else.

Yet Imogen knew, as she walked back beside her mother, knew quite as well as if her mother
had spoken the words, that her proffered love had not been trusted, that she had been penetrated,
judged, and, in some irresistible way, a way that brought no punishment and no reproof, nor
even any lessening of affection, condemned. Her mother still loved her, that was the helpless
conviction that settled upon her; but it was as a child, not as a personality, that she was
loved,--very much as Miss Bocock respected her as the mistress of Thremdon Hall and not at
all on her own account; but her mother, too, for all her quiet, and all her kindness, thought
her "self-centered, self-righteous, cold-hearted," and--Imogen, in a sharp pang of insight,
saw it all--because of that would not attempt any soul-stirring appeal or arraignment. She
knew too well with what arms of spiritual assurance she would be met.

It was in silence, while they walked side by side, the basket of roses between them, that Imogen
fiercely seized these arms, fiercely parried the unuttered arraignment, and, more fiercely,
the unuttered love.

She could claim no verbal victory, she had had to endure no verbal defeat; it was she herself
who had forced this issue upon a situation that her mother would have been content to leave
undefined. Her mother would never fix blame; her mother would never humiliate; but, she had
found it to her own cost,--though the cost was as light as her mother could make it--she would
not consent to be placed where Imogen had wished to place her. Let it be so, then, let it end
on this note of seeming harmony and of silent discord; it was her mother's act, not her own.
Truth was in her and had made once more its appeal; once more deep had called to deep only
to find shallowness. For spiritual shallowness there must be where an appeal such as hers could
be so misunderstood and so rejected.

She was angry, sore, vindictive, though her sharp insight did not reach so far as to tell her
this; it did, however, tell her that she was wounded to the quick. But the final refuge was
in the thought that she was soon to leave such judgments and such loves behind her for ever.

XXX

It was on a late October day that Jack Pennington rode over the hills to Valerie's summer home.

Two months were gone since Imogen's reporter-haunted nuptials had been celebrated in the bland
little country church that raised its white steeple from the woodlands. Jack had been present
at them; decency had made that necessary, and a certain grimness in his aspect was easily to
be interpreted in a dismal, defeated rival. It was as such, he knew, that he was seen there.

It had been a funny wedding,--to apply none of the other terms that lay deeper in him. In watching
it from the white-wreathed chancel he had thought of Valerie's summing-up: "Imogen is one of
the people who make the world go round." The world in every phase had been there, from the
British ambassador and the Langleys to the East Side club girls--brought up from New York in
the special train--and a flourishing consignment of cripples and nurses. Here and there in
her path Imogen might meet the blankness of a Miss Bocock, the irony of a Mrs. Wake, a disillusion
like Mary's, an insight like his own; but the great world, in its aspect of power and simplicity,
would be with her always. He had realized as never before Imogen's capacity, when he saw the
cohorts of her friends and followers overflow the church.

She had been a fitting center to it all; though the center, for Jack, was Valerie, exquisite,
mildly radiant, not a hint on her of dispossession or of doom; but Imogen, white and rapt and
grave, had looked almost as wonderful as on the day when she had first dawned upon Sir Basil's
vision.

Jack, watching her uplifted profile as she stood at the altar-rail, found himself trivially,
spitefully, irrelevantly murmuring:--"Her nose is too small." And yet she looked more than
ever like a Botticelli Madonna.

Rose and Eddy were to be married that winter in New York, a gigantic opportunity for the newspapers,
for already half the world seemed trooping to the festivities. Afterward, with old-fashioned
Americanism, they would live in quite a little house and try to forget about Rose's fortune
until Eddy made his.

Valerie was to have none of the bother of this wedding. Mrs. Packer, a mournful, jeweled, faded
little beauty, was well fitted to cope with such emergencies. Her secretaries sat already with
pens poised.

Imogen's wedding had kept her mother working like a galley-slave, so Rose told Jack, with the
familiarity that was now justifiable in one who was almost of the family, and that Eddy had
told her, with much disgust of demeanor, that its financing had eaten pretty deeply into his
mother's shrunken means. Rose made no open denunciation; she, no more than anyone else, could
guess from Jack's silence what his feeling about Imogen might really be. But she was sure that
he was well over her, and that, above all, he was one of the elect who saw Mrs. Upton; she
could allow herself a musing survey of all that the mother had done for the daughter, adding,
and it was really with a wish for strict justice: "Of course Imogen never had any idea of money,
and she'll never realize what she cost." In another and a deeper sense it might be that that
was the kindest as well as the truest thing to say of Imogen.

Since the wedding he knew that Valerie had been quietly at the little house among the hills,
alone for the most part, though Mrs. Wake was often with her and the Pakenhams had paid her
a visit on their way back to England. Now Mrs. Wake was gone back to New York, and her own
departure was to take place in a few days. Jack, spending a week-end with friends not beyond
riding distance, felt that he must see her again in the surroundings where he had come to know
her so well and to know himself as so changed.

He rode over the crests of hills in the flaming, aromatic woods. The fallen leaves paved his
way with gold. In the deep distances, before him a still, blue haze, like the bloom on ripe
grape-clusters, lay over the purples of the lower ranges. Above, about, before him was the
blue sky of the wonderful American "fall," high, clear, crystalline. The air was like an elixir.
Jack's eyes were for all this beauty,--"the vast, unconscious scenery of my land," the line
that drifted in his thoughts,--his own consciousness, taken up into his contemplation, seeming
as vast and as unperplexed. But under his calm, his happy sadness, that, too, seemed a part
of the day, ran, like the inner echo to the air's intoxication, a stream of deep, still excitement.

He did not think directly of Valerie, but vague pictures passed, phantom-like, before his mind.
He saw her in her garden, gathering late flowers; he saw her reading under the fringe of vine-leaves
and tendrils; he saw her again in the wintry New York of snow, sunlight, white, gold and blue,
or smiling down from the high-decked steamer against a sky of frosty rose; he saw her on all
possible and adequate backgrounds of the land he so loved. But,--oh, it was here that the under-current,
the stream of excitement seemed to rise, foaming, circling, submerging him, choking him, with
tides of grief and desolation,--seeing her, too, in that land she loved;--not in the Surrey
garden, no, no,--that was shut to her for ever;--but in some other, some distant garden, high-walled,
the pale gold and gray of an autumnal sunset over its purpling bricks, or on a flower-dappled
common in spring, or in spring woods filled with wild hyacinths and primroses. How he could
see her, place her, over there, far, far away, from his country--and from him.

It was, after the last sharp trot, the last leisurely uphill canter, on the bordering, leaf-strewn
grass of the winding road, where the white walls and gray roof of the little house showed among
the trees, that all the undercurrent seemed to center in a knot of suffocating expectancy and pain.

And Valerie, while Jack so rode, so approached her, was fulfilling one of his visions. She
had spent the afternoon in her garden, digging, planting, "messing" as she expressed it, very
happily among her borders, where late flowers, purple and white and gold, still bloomed. She
was planning all sorts of things for her garden, a row of double-cherry-trees to stand at the
edges of the woods and be symbols of paradise in spring, with their deep upon deep of miraculous
white. Little almond-trees, too, frail sprays of pink on a spring sky, and quince-trees that
would show in autumn among ample foliage the pale gold of their softly-furred fruit. She wanted
spring flowers to run back far into the woods, the climbing roses and honeysuckle to make summer
delicious among the vines of the veranda. The afternoon, full of such projects, passed pleasantly,
and when she came in and dressed for her solitary tea, she felt pleasantly tired. She walked
up and down the drawing-room, its white walls warm with the reflections of outer sunlight,
listening vaguely to the long trail of her black tea-gown behind her, looking vaguely from
the open windows at the purple distances set in their nearer waves of flame.

At the end of the room, before the austere little mantelpiece, she paused presently to look
at herself in the austere little mirror with its compartments of old gilt; at herself, the
illuminated white of the room behind her reflection. A narrow crystal vase mirrored itself
beside her leaning arm, and its one tall rose, set among green leaves and russet stems and
thorns, spread depths of color near her cheek. Valerie's eyes went from her face to the rose.
The rose was fresh, glowing, perfect. Her face, lovely still, was faded.

She stood there, leaning beside the flower, the fingers of her supporting hand sunken deep
in the chestnut masses of her hair, and noted, gravely, earnestly, the delicate signs and seals
of stealing age.

Never, never again would her face be like the rose, young, fresh, perfect. And she herself
was no longer young; in her heart she knew the stillness, the droop, the peace--almost the
peace--of softly-falling petals.

How young she had been, how lovely, how full of sweetness. That was the thought that pierced
her suddenly, the thought of wasted sweetness, unrecorded beauty, unnoted, unloved, all to
go, to pass away for ever. It seemed hardly for herself she grieved, but for the doom of all
youth and loveliness; for the fleeting, the impermanence of all life. The vision of herself
passed to a vision of the other roses, the drooping, the doomed, scattering their petals in
the chill breeze of coming winter.

"Poor things," was her thought,--her own self-pity had part only in its inclusiveness,--"summer
is over for all of us."

And with the thought, girlishly, still girlishly, she hid her face upon her arms as she stood
there, murmuring:--"Ah, I hate, I hate getting old."

A step at the door roused her. She turned to see Jack entering.

Jack looked very nice in the tans and russets of his riding-tweeds and gaiters. The chill air
had brought a clear color to his cheeks; the pale gold of his hair,--one unruly lock, as usual,
over-long, lying across his forehead,--shone like sunlight; his gray eyes looked as deep and
limpid as a mountain pool.

Valerie was very, very glad to see him. He embodied the elixir, the color, the freshness of
the world to-day: and oh how young--how young--how fortunately, beautifully young he looked;--that
was the thought that met him from the contrast of the mirror.

She gave him her hands in welcome, and they sat down near a window where the sunlight fell
upon them and the breeze blew in upon them, she on a little sofa, among chintz cushions, he
on a low chair beside her; and while they talked, that excitement, that pain and expectancy
grew in Jack.

The summer was over and, soon, it must be, she would go. With a wave of sadness that sucked
him back and swept him forward in a long, sure ache, came the knowledge, deeper than before,
of his own desolation. But, sitting there beside her in the October sunlight; feeling, with
the instinct, so quick, so sensitive in him, that it was in sadness he had found her, the desolation
wasn't so much for himself as for her, what she represented and stood for. He, too, seeing
her face with the blooming rose beside it, had known her piercing thought.

She was going; but in other senses, too. She had begun to go; and all the sacrifices, the relinquishments,
the acceptances of the summer, were the first steps of departure. She had done with things
and he, who had not yet done with them, was left behind. Already the signs of distance were
upon her--he saw them as she had seen them--her distance from the world of youth, of hope,
of effort.

A thin veil, like the sad-sweet haze over the purpling hills, seemed to waver between them;
the veil that, for all its melting elusiveness, parts implacably one generation from another.
Its dimness seemed to rest on her bright hair and to hover in her bright eyes; to soften, as
with a faint melancholy, the brightness of her smile. And it was as if he saw her, with a little
sigh, unclasp her hands, that had clung to what she fancied to be still her share of life,--unclasp
her hands, look round her with a slight amaze at the changed season where she found herself,
and, after the soundless pause of recognition, bend her head consentingly to the quiet, obliterating
snows of age. And once more his own change, his own initiation to subtler standards, was marked
by the fact that when the old, ethical self, still over-glib with its assurances, tried to
urge upon him that all was for the best in a wonderful world, ventured to murmur an axiom or
so as to the grace, the dignity, the added spiritual significance of old age, the new self,
awakened to tragedy, turned angry eyes upon that vision of the rose in the devastated garden,
and once more muttered, in silence:--"Damn!"

They had talked of the past and of the coming marriage, very superficially, in their outer
aspects; they had talked of his summer wanderings and of the Pakenhams' visit to Vermont. She
had given him tea and she had told him of her plans for the winter;--she had given up the New
York house, and had taken a little flat near Mrs. Wake's, that she was going to move to in
a few days from now. And Jack said at last, feeling that with the words he dived from shallows
into deeps:--"And--when are you going back?--back to England?"

"Going back?"--She repeated his words with vagueness.

"Yes; to where you've always liked to live."

"Yes; I liked living there," said Valerie, still with vagueness in her contemplative "yes."

"And still like it."

She seemed to consider. "Things have changed, you know. It was change I used to want, I looked
for it, perhaps mistakenly. Now it has come of itself. And I feel a great unwillingness to
move on again."

The poignant vision of something bruised, dimmed, listless, was with him, and it was odd to
hear himself urging:--"But in the meantime, you, too, have changed. The whole thing over here,
the thing we so care for, isn't yours. You don't really care about it much, if at all. It doesn't
really please you. It gives you with effort what you can get with ease, over there, and it
must jar on you, often. We are young; crude; all the over-obvious things that are always said
of us; our enthusiasms are too facile; our standards of achievement, in the things you care
for, rather second-rate; oh, you know well enough what I mean. We are not crystallized yet
into a shape that's really comfortable for a person like you:--perhaps we never shall be; perhaps
I hope that we never shall be. So why shouldn't you go to a place where you can have all the
things you like?"

She listened to him in silence, with, at the end, a slight smile for the exactitude of his:
"Perhaps I hope that we never shall be;"--and she paused now as if his portrayal of her own
wants required consideration. "Perhaps," she said at length, "perhaps I never cared so much
about all those things."

"Oh, but you do," said Jack with conviction.

"You mean, I suppose, all the things people over here go away so much to get. No, I don't think
so. It was never really that. I don't think"--and she seemed to be thinking it out for herself
as well as for him--"that I've ever been so conscious of standards--crystallizations--the relative
values and forms of things. What I wanted was freedom. Not that I was ever oppressed or ill-treated,
far from it;--but I was too--uncomfortable. I was like a bird forced to live like a fish, or
perhaps we had better say, like a fish forced to live like a bird. That was why I went. I couldn't
breathe. And, yes, I like the life over there. It's very easy and gliding; it protects you
from jars; it gives you beauty for the asking;--here we have to make it as a rule. I like the
people, too, and their unconsciousness. One likes us, you know, Jack, for what is conscious
in us--and it's so much that there's hardly a bit of us that isn't conscious. We know our way
all over ourselves, as it were, and can put all of ourselves into the window if we want someone
else to know us. One often likes them for their unconsciousness, for all the things behind
the window, all the things they know nothing at all about, the things that are instinctive,
background things. It makes a more peaceful feeling. One can wander about dim rooms, as it
were, and rest in them; one doesn't have to recognize, and respond so much. Yes, I shall miss
it all, in a great many ways. But I like it here, too. For one thing, there is a great deal
more to do."

Jack, in some bewilderment, was grasping at clues. One was that, as he had long ago learned
of her, she was incapable of phrases, even when they were sincere, incapable of dramatizing
herself, even if her situation lent itself to tragic interpretations. Uncomfortable?--was that
all that she found to say of her life, her suffocating life, among the fishes? She could put
it aside with that. And as for the rest, he realized suddenly, with a new illumination--at
what a late date it was for him to reach it; he, who had thought that he knew her so well!--that
she cared less, in reality, for all those "things" lacking in the life of her native land than
the bulk of her conscious, anxious countrymen. Cared not enough, his old self of judgment and
moral appraisement would have pronounced. She wasn't intellectual, nor was she esthetic; that
was the funny part of it, about a person whose whole being diffused a sense of completeness
that was like a perfume. Art, culture, a complicated social life, being on the top of things,
as it were, were not the objects of her concentration. It was indeed her indifference to them,
her independence of them, that made her, for his wider consciousness, oddly un-American.

In the midst of bewilderment and illumination one thing stood clear, a trembling joy; he had
to make assurance doubly sure. "If you are not going away, what will you do?"

"I don't know";--he would, once, have rebuked the smile with which she said it as indolent;--"I
wasn't thinking of anything definite, for myself. I'll watch other people do--you, for instance,
Jack. I shall spend most of my time here in the country; New York is so expensive; I shall
garden--wait till you see what I make of this in a few years' time; I shall look after Rose
and Eddy--at a tactful distance."

"But your wider life? Your many friends, over there?" Jack still protested, fearing that he
saw more clearly than she to what a widow with a tiny, crippled fortune was consigning herself
in this country of the young and striving. "You need gaiety, brilliancy, big, bright vistas."
It was strange to hear himself urging his thought for her against that inner throb. Again she
gave him her grave, brief smile. "You forget, Jack, that I'm--cured. I'm quite old enough not
to mind giving up."

The warm, consoling assurance was with him, of her presence near his life; but under it the
excitement, the pain, had so risen that he wondered if she did not read them in his eyes.

The evening was growing late; the sky had turned to a pale, translucent gold, streaked, over
the horizon, by thin, cold, lilac-colored clouds. He must go, leaving her there, alone, and,
in so doing, he would leave something else behind him forever. For it was now, as the veil
fell upon her, as the evening fell over the wide earth, it was now or never that he could receive
the last illumination. He hardly saw clearly what that might be; it wavered like a hovering
light behind the mist.

He rose and walked up and down the room a little; pausing to look from the windows at the golden
sky; pausing to look, now and then, at her, sitting there in her long, black dress, vaguely
shadowed on the outer light, smiling, tranquil, yet sad, so sad.

"So, our summer is at an end," he said, turning at last from the window. "The air has a frosty
tang already. I suppose I must be off. I shall not see you again until New York. I'm glad--I'm
glad that you are to be there"; and now he stammered suddenly, a little--"more glad than I
can say."

"Thanks, Jack," she answered, her eyes fondly dwelling on him. "You are one of the things I
would not like to leave."

Again he walked up and down, and seemed to hear the steady flow of that still, deep excitement.
Why, above it, should he say silly, meaningless words, that were like a bridge thrown over
it to lead him from her?

"I want to tell you one thing, just one, before I go," he said. He knew that, with his sudden
resolution, his voice had changed and, to quiet himself, he stood before her and put both hands
on the back of a chair that was between them. He couldn't go on building that bridge. He must
dare something, even if something else he must not dare--unless, unless she let him. "I must
tell you that you are the most enchanting person I have ever known."

She looked at him quietly, though she was startled, not quite understanding, and she said a
little sadly: "Only that, Jack?"

"Yes, only that, for you, because you don't need the trite, obvious labels that one affixes
to other people. You don't need me to say that you are good or true or brave;--it's like a
delicate seal that comprises and expresses everything,--the trite things and the strange, lovely
things--when I say that you are enchanting." He held his mind, so conscious, under the words,
of what he must not say, to the intellectual preoccupation of making her see, at all events,
just what the words he could say meant.

But as his voice rang, tense, vibrant as a tightened cord in the still room, as his eyes sank
into hers, Valerie felt in her own dying youth the sudden echo to all he dared not say.

She had never seen, quick as she was to see the meaning behind words and looks. She suspected
that he, also, had never seen it clearly till now.

Other claims had dropped from them; the world was gone; they were alone, his eyes on hers;
and between them was the magic of life.

Yes, she had it still, the gift, the compelling charm. His eyes in their young strength and
fear and adoration called to her life, and with a touch, a look, she could bring to it this
renewal and this solace. And, behind her sorrow, her veil, her relinquishment, Valerie was
deeply thrilled.

The thrill went through her, but even while she knew it, it hardly moved her. No; the relinquishment
had been too deep. She had lost forever, in losing the other. That had been to turn her back
on life, or, rather, to see it turn its back on her, forever. Not without an ugly crash of
inner, twisted discord could she step once more from the place of snow, or hold out her hand
to love.

All his life was before him, but for her--; for her it was finished. And as she mastered the
thrill, as she turned from the vision of what his eyes besought and promised, a flow of pity,
pity for his youth and pain and for all the long way he was yet to go, filled her, bringing
peace, even while the sweetness of the unsought, undreamed of offering made her smile again,
a trembling smile.

"Dear Jack, thank you," she said.

Suddenly, before her smile, her look, he flushed deeply, taking from her eyes what his own
full meaning had been. Already it was in the past, the still-born hope; it was dead before
he gazed upon it; but he must hear the death-warrant from her lips, it was not enough to see
it, so gentle, so pitiful, so loving, in her eyes, and he heard himself stammering:--"You--
you haven't anything else you can say to me?"

