'Ah!' said Fleming, with a deep sigh, 'He has blessed me.  When I was ill He showed me what
a poor sinner I was, and how Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, "of whom I am
chief."  Sure I can say that if anybody can.  But it says in the Bible, "He loved me, and gave
Himself for me."  Yes, little Meg, He died to save me.  I felt it.  I believed it.  I came
to see that I'd nobody to fly to but Jesus if I wanted to be aught else but a poor, wicked,
lost rascal, as got drunk, and was no better than a brute.  And so I turned it over and over
in my mind, lying abed; and now, please God, I'm a bit more like being a Christian than I was.
I reckon that's what bless means, little Meg.'

As he spoke the door opened, and Mrs Blossom came in with Robin.  It was twelve months since
Robin had seen his father, and now he was shy, and hung back a little behind Mrs Blossom; but
Meg called to him in a joyful voice.

'Come here, little Robbie,' she said; 'it's father, as we've watched for so long.--He's a little
bit afeared at first, father, but you'll love him ever so when he knows you.'

It was not long before Robin knew his father sufficiently to accept of a seat on his knee,
when Meg was put back into bed at Mrs Blossom's entreaties.  Fleming nursed his boy in silence
for some time, while now and then a tear glistened in his deep eyes as he thought over the
history of little Meg's sorrows.

'I'm thinking,' said Mrs Blossom cheerfully, 'as this isn't the sort o' place for a widow man
and his children to stop in.  I'm just frightened to death o' going up and down the court.
I suppose you're not thinking o' settling here, Mr Fleming?'

'No, no,' said Fleming, shaking his head: 'a decent man couldn't stop here, let alone a Christian.'

'Well, then, come home to us till you can turn yourself round,' continued Mrs Blossom heartily;
'me and Mr George have talked it over, and he says, "When little Meg's father do come, let
'em all come here: Posy, and the little 'uns, and all.  You'll have Posy and the little 'uns
in your room, and I'll have him in mine.  We'll give him some sort o' a shakedown, and sailors
don't use to lie soft." So if you've no objections to raise, it's settled; and if you have,
please to raise 'em at once.'

Robert Fleming had no objections to raise, but he accepted the cordial invitation thankfully,
for he was in haste to get out of the miserable life of Angel Court.  He brought the hidden
box into the back attic, and opened it before little Meg, taking out of it the packet of forty
pounds, and a number of pawn-tickets, which he looked at very sorrowfully.  After securing
these he locked up the attic again, and carrying Meg in his arms, he led the way down the stairs,
and through the court, followed closely by Mrs Blossom, Posy, and Robin.  The sound of brawling
and quarrelling was loud as usual, and the children crawling about the pavement were dirty
and squalid as ever; they gathered about Meg and her father, forming themselves into a dirty
and ragged procession to accompany them down to the street.  Little Meg looked up to the high
window of the attic, where she had watched so often and so long for her father's coming; and
then she looked round, with eyes full of pity, upon the wretched group about her; and closing
her eyelids, her lips moving a little, but without any words which even her father could hear,
she said in her heart, 'Pray God, bless everybody, and make them good.'

CHAPTER XIV

Little Meg's Farewell

About a month after Robert Fleming's return Dr Christie paid a visit to Mrs Blossom's little
house.  He had been there before, but this was a special visit; and it was evident some important
plan had to be decided upon.  Dr Christie came to hear what Mrs Blossom had to say about it.

