I answer that, Merit and reward refer to the same, for a reward means something given anyone
in return for work or toil, as a price for it. Hence, as it is an act of justice to give a
just price for anything received from another, so also is it an act of justice to make a return
for work or toil. Now justice is a kind of equality, as is clear from the Philosopher (Ethic.
v, 3), and hence justice is simply between those that are simply equal; but where there is
no absolute equality between them, neither is there absolute justice, but there may be a certain
manner of justice, as when we speak of a father's or a master's right (Ethic. v, 6), as the
Philosopher says. And hence where there is justice simply, there is the character of merit
and reward simply. But where there is no simple right, but only relative, there is no character
of merit simply, but only relatively, in so far as the character of justice is found there,
since the child merits something from his father and the slave from his lord.

Now it is clear that between God and man there is the greatest inequality: for they are infinitely
apart, and all man's good is from God. Hence there can be no justice of absolute equality between
man and God, but only of a certain proportion, inasmuch as both operate after their own manner.
Now the manner and measure of human virtue is in man from God. Hence man's merit with God only
exists on the presupposition of the Divine ordination, so that man obtains from God, as a reward
of his operation, what God gave him the power of operation for, even as natural things by their
proper movements and operations obtain that to which they were ordained by God; differently,
indeed, since the rational creature moves itself to act by its free-will, hence its action
has the character of merit, which is not so in other creatures.

Reply Obj. 1: Man merits, inasmuch as he does what he ought, by his free-will; otherwise the
act of justice whereby anyone discharges a debt would not be meritorious.

Reply Obj. 2: God seeks from our goods not profit, but glory, i.e. the manifestation of His
goodness; even as He seeks it also in His own works. Now nothing accrues to Him, but only to
ourselves, by our worship of Him. Hence we merit from God, not that by our works anything accrues
to Him, but inasmuch as we work for His glory.

Reply Obj. 3: Since our action has the character of merit, only on the presupposition of the
Divine ordination, it does not follow that God is made our debtor simply, but His own, inasmuch
as it is right that His will should be carried out.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 2]

Whether Anyone Without Grace Can Merit Eternal Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that without grace anyone can merit eternal life. For man merits
from God what he is divinely ordained to, as stated above (A. 1). Now man by his nature is
ordained to beatitude as his end; hence, too, he naturally wishes to be blessed. Hence man
by his natural endowments and without grace can merit beatitude which is eternal life.

Obj. 2: Further, the less a work is due, the more meritorious it is. Now, less due is that
work which is done by one who has received fewer benefits. Hence, since he who has only natural
endowments has received fewer gifts from God, than he who has gratuitous gifts as well as nature,
it would seem that his works are more meritorious with God. And thus if he who has grace can
merit eternal life to some extent, much more may he who has no grace.

Obj. 3: Further, God's mercy and liberality infinitely surpass human mercy and liberality.
Now a man may merit from another, even though he has not hitherto had his grace. Much more,
therefore, would it seem that a man without grace may merit eternal life.

I answer that, Man without grace may be looked at in two states, as was said above (Q. 109,
A. 2): the first, a state of perfect nature, in which Adam was before his sin; the second,
a state of corrupt nature, in which we are before being restored by grace. Therefore, if we
speak of man in the first state, there is only one reason why man cannot merit eternal life
without grace, by his purely natural endowments, viz. because man's merit depends on the Divine
pre-ordination. Now no act of anything whatsoever is divinely ordained to anything exceeding
the proportion of the powers which are the principles of its act; for it is a law of Divine
providence that nothing shall act beyond its powers. And hence it is that no created nature
is a sufficient principle of an act meritorious of eternal life, unless there is added a supernatural
gift, which we call grace. But if we speak of man as existing in sin, a second reason is added
to this, viz. the impediment of sin. For since sin is an offense against God, excluding us
from eternal life, as is clear from what has been said above (Q. 71, A. 6; Q. 113, A. 2), no
one existing in a state of mortal sin can merit eternal life unless first he be reconciled
to God, through his sin being forgiven, which is brought about by grace. For the sinner deserves
not life, but death, according to Rom. 6:23: "The wages of sin is death."

Reply Obj. 1: God ordained human nature to attain the end of eternal life, not by its own strength,
but by the help of grace; and in this way its act can be meritorious of eternal life.

Reply Obj. 2: Without grace a man cannot have a work equal to a work proceeding from grace,
since the more perfect the principle, the more perfect the action. But the objection would
hold good, if we supposed the operations equal in both cases.

Reply Obj. 3: With regard to the first reason adduced, the case is different in God and in
man. For a man receives all his power of well-doing from God, and not from man. Hence a man
can merit nothing from God except by His gift, which the Apostle expresses aptly saying (Rom.
11:35): "Who hath first given to Him, and recompense shall be made to him?" But man may merit
from man, before he has received anything from him, by what he has received from God.

But as regards the second proof taken from the impediment of sin, the case is similar with
man and God, since one man cannot merit from another whom he has offended, unless he makes
satisfaction to him and is reconciled.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 3]

Whether a Man in Grace Can Merit Eternal Life Condignly?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man in grace cannot merit eternal life condignly, for the
Apostle says (Rom. 8:18): "The sufferings of this time are not worthy (condignae) to be compared
with the glory to come, that shall be revealed in us." But of all meritorious works, the sufferings
of the saints would seem the most meritorious. Therefore no works of men are meritorious of
eternal life condignly.

Obj. Now when anyone merits something condignly he receives it not from mercy, but from merit.
Hence it would seem that a man with grace cannot merit life everlasting condignly.

Obj. 3: Further, merit that equals the reward, would seem to be condign. Now no act of the
present life can equal everlasting life, which surpasses our knowledge and our desire, and
moreover, surpasses the charity or love of the wayfarer, even as it exceeds nature. Therefore
with grace a man cannot merit eternal life condignly.

On the contrary, What is granted in accordance with a fair judgment, would seem a condign reward.
But life everlasting is granted by God, in accordance with the judgment of justice, according
to 2 Tim. 4:8: "As to the rest, there is laid up for me a crown of justice, which the Lord,
the just judge, will render to me in that day." Therefore man merits everlasting life condignly.

I answer that, Man's meritorious work may be considered in two ways: first, as it proceeds
from free-will; secondly, as it proceeds from the grace of the Holy Ghost. If it is considered
as regards the substance of the work, and inasmuch as it springs from the free-will, there
can be no condignity because of the very great inequality. But there is congruity, on account
of an equality of proportion: for it would seem congruous that, if a man does what he can,
God should reward him according to the excellence of his power.

If, however, we speak of a meritorious work, inasmuch as it proceeds from the grace of the
Holy Ghost moving us to life everlasting, it is meritorious of life everlasting condignly.
For thus the value of its merit depends upon the power of the Holy Ghost moving us to life
everlasting according to John 4:14: "Shall become in him a fount of water springing up into
life everlasting." And the worth of the work depends on the dignity of grace, whereby a man,
being made a partaker of the Divine Nature, is adopted as a son of God, to whom the inheritance
is due by right of adoption, according to Rom. 8:17: "If sons, heirs also."

Reply Obj. 1: The Apostle is speaking of the substance of these sufferings.

Reply Obj. 2: This saying is to be understood of the first cause of our reaching everlasting
life, viz. God's mercy. But our merit is a subsequent cause.

Reply Obj. 3: The grace of the Holy Ghost which we have at present, although unequal to glory
in act, is equal to it virtually as the seed of a tree, wherein the whole tree is virtually.
So likewise by grace of the Holy Ghost dwells in man; and He is a sufficient cause of life
everlasting; hence, 2 Cor. 1:22, He is called the "pledge" of our inheritance.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 4]

Whether Grace Is the Principle of Merit Through Charity Rather Than the Other Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not the principle of merit through charity rather
than the other virtues. For wages are due to work, according to Matt. 20:8: "Call the laborers
and pay them their hire." Now every virtue is a principle of some operation, since virtue is
an operative habit, as stated above (Q. 55, A. 2). Hence every virtue is equally a principle
of merit.

Obj. Now charity lessens rather than increases the labor, because as Augustine says (De Verbis
Dom., Serm. lxx), "love makes all hard and repulsive tasks easy and next to nothing." Hence
charity is no greater principle of merit than any other virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, the greatest principle of merit would seem to be the one whose acts are most
meritorious. But the acts of faith and patience or fortitude would seem to be the most meritorious,
as appears in the martyrs, who strove for the faith patiently and bravely even till death.
Hence other virtues are a greater principle of merit than charity. Now everlasting life consists
in the manifest knowledge of God, according to John 17:3: "This is eternal life: that they
may know Thee, the only true" and living "God." Hence the merit of eternal life rests chiefly
with charity.

I answer that, As we may gather from what has been stated above (A. 1), human acts have the
nature of merit from two causes: first and chiefly from the Divine ordination, inasmuch as
acts are said to merit that good to which man is divinely ordained. Secondly, on the part of
free-will, inasmuch as man, more than other creatures, has the power of voluntary acts by acting
by himself. And in both these ways does merit chiefly rest with charity. For we must bear in
mind that everlasting life consists in the enjoyment of God. Now the human mind's movement
to the fruition of the Divine good is the proper act of charity, whereby all the acts of the
other virtues are ordained to this end, since all the other virtues are commanded by charity.
Hence the merit of life everlasting pertains first to charity, and secondly, to the other virtues,
inasmuch as their acts are commanded by charity. So, likewise, is it manifest that what we
do out of love we do most willingly. Hence, even inasmuch as merit depends on voluntariness,
merit is chiefly attributed to charity.

Reply Obj. 1: Charity, inasmuch as it has the last end for object, moves the other virtues
to act. For the habit to which the end pertains always commands the habits to which the means
pertain, as was said above (Q. 9, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 2: A work can be toilsome and difficult in two ways: first, from the greatness of
the work, and thus the greatness of the work pertains to the increase of merit; and thus charity
does not lessen the toil--rather, it makes us undertake the greatest toils, "for it does great
things, if it exists," as Gregory says (Hom. in Evang. xxx). Secondly, from the defect of the
operator; for what is not done with a ready will is hard and difficult to all of us, and this
toil lessens merit and is removed by charity.

Reply Obj. 3: The act of faith is not meritorious unless "faith . . . worketh by charity" (Gal.
5:6).

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 5]

Whether a Man May Merit for Himself the First Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man may merit for himself the first grace, because, as Augustine
says (Ep. clxxxvi), "faith merits justification." Now a man is justified by the first grace.
Therefore a man may merit the first grace.

Obj. 2: Further, God gives grace only to the worthy. Now, no one is said to be worthy of some
good, unless he has merited it condignly. Therefore we may merit the first grace condignly.

Obj. 3: Further, with men we may merit a gift already received. Thus if a man receives a horse
from his master, he merits it by a good use of it in his master's service. Now God is much
more bountiful than man. Much more, therefore, may a man, by subsequent works, merit the first
grace already received from God. Hence a man may not merit the first grace.

I answer that, The gift of grace may be considered in two ways: first in the nature of a gratuitous
gift, and thus it is manifest that all merit is repugnant to grace, since as the Apostle says
(Rom. 11:6), "if by grace, it is not now by works." Secondly, it may be considered as regards
the nature of the thing given, and thus, also, it cannot come under the merit of him who has
not grace, both because it exceeds the proportion of nature, and because previous to grace
a man in the state of sin has an obstacle to his meriting grace, viz. sin. But when anyone
has grace, the grace already possessed cannot come under merit, since reward is the term of
the work, but grace is the principle of all our good works, as stated above (Q. 109). But of
anyone merits a further gratuitous gift by virtue of the preceding grace, it would not be the
first grace. Hence it is manifest that no one can merit for himself the first grace.

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says (Retract. i, 23), he was deceived on this point for a time,
believing the beginning of faith to be from us, and its consummation to be granted us by God;
and this he here retracts. And seemingly it is in this sense that he speaks of faith as meriting
justification. But if we suppose, as indeed it is a truth of faith, that the beginning of faith
is in us from God, the first act must flow from grace; and thus it cannot be meritorious of
the first grace. Therefore man is justified by faith, not as though man, by believing, were
to merit justification, but that, he believes, whilst he is being justified; inasmuch as a
movement of faith is required for the justification of the ungodly, as stated above (Q. 113, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 2: God gives grace to none but to the worthy, not that they were previously worthy,
but that by His grace He makes them worthy, Who alone "can make him clean that is conceived
of unclean seed" (Job 14:4).

Reply Obj. 3: Man's every good work proceeds from the first grace as from its principle; but
not from any gift of man. Consequently, there is no comparison between gifts of grace and gifts
of men.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. Because on Matt. 9:2: "Jesus seeing their faith," etc. a
gloss says: "How much is our personal faith worth with God, Who set such a price on another's
faith, as to heal the man both inwardly and outwardly!" Now inward healing is brought about
by grace. Hence a man can merit the first grace for another.

Obj. 2: Further, the prayers of the just are not void, but efficacious, according to James
5:16: "The continued prayer of a just man availeth much." Now he had previously said: "Pray
one for another, that you may be saved." Hence, since man's salvation can only be brought about
by grace, it seems that one man may merit for another his first grace.

Obj. Now it is through grace alone that anyone is received into everlasting dwellings, for
by it alone does anyone merit everlasting life as stated above (A. 2; Q. 109, A. 5). Hence
one man may by merit obtain for another his first grace. Hence it seems that no one can merit
the first grace for another.

I answer that, As shown above (AA. 1, 3, 4), our works are meritorious from two causes: first,
by virtue of the Divine motion; and thus we merit condignly; secondly, according as they proceed
from free-will in so far as we do them willingly, and thus they have congruous merit, since
it is congruous that when a man makes good use of his power God should by His super-excellent
power work still higher things. And therefore it is clear that no one can merit condignly for
another his first grace, save Christ alone; since each one of us is moved by God to reach life
everlasting through the gift of grace; hence condign merit does not reach beyond this motion.
But Christ's soul is moved by God through grace, not only so as to reach the glory of life
everlasting, but so as to lead others to it, inasmuch as He is the Head of the Church, and
the Author of human salvation, according to Heb. 2:10: "Who hath brought many children into
glory [to perfect] the Author of their salvation."

But one may merit the first grace for another congruously; because a man in grace fulfils God's
will, and it is congruous and in harmony with friendship that God should fulfil man's desire
for the salvation of another, although sometimes there may be an impediment on the part of
him whose salvation the just man desires. And it is in this sense that the passage from Jeremias
speaks.

Reply Obj. 1: A man's faith avails for another's salvation by congruous and not by condign merit.

Reply Obj. 2: The impetration of prayer rests on mercy, whereas condign merit rests on justice;
hence a man may impetrate many things from the Divine mercy in prayer, which he does not merit
in justice, according to Dan. 9:18: "For it is not for our justifications that we present our
prayers before Thy face, but for the multitude of Thy tender mercies."

Reply Obj. 3: The poor who receive alms are said to receive others into everlasting dwellings,
either by impetrating their forgiveness in prayer, or by meriting congruously by other good
works, or materially speaking, inasmuch as by these good works of mercy, exercised towards
the poor, we merit to be received into everlasting dwellings.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 7]

Whether a Man May Merit Restoration After a Fall?

Objection 1: It would seem that anyone may merit for himself restoration after a fall. For
what a man may justly ask of God, he may justly merit. Now nothing may more justly be besought
of God than to be restored after a fall, as Augustine says [*Cf. Ennar. i super Ps. lxx.],
according to Ps. 70:9: "When my strength shall fail, do not Thou forsake me." Hence a man may
merit to be restored after a fall.

Obj. 2: Further, a man's works benefit himself more than another. Now a man may, to some extent,
merit for another his restoration after a fall, even as his first grace. Much more, therefore,
may he merit for himself restoration after a fall.

Obj. 3: Further, when a man is once in grace he merits life everlasting by the good works he
does, as was shown above (A. 2; Q. 109, A. 5). Now no one can attain life everlasting unless
he is restored by grace. Hence it would seem that he merits for himself restoration.

On the contrary, It is written (Ezech. 18:24): "If the just man turn himself away from his
justice and do iniquity . . . all his justices which he hath done shall not be remembered."
Therefore his previous merits will nowise help him to rise again. Hence no one can merit for
himself restoration after a fall.

I answer that, No one can merit for himself restoration after a future fall, either condignly
or congruously. He cannot merit for himself condignly, since the reason of this merit depends
on the motion of Divine grace, and this motion is interrupted by the subsequent sin; hence
all benefits which he afterwards obtains from God, whereby he is restored, do not fall under
merit--the motion of the preceding grace not extending to them. Again, congruous merit, whereby
one merits the first grace for another, is prevented from having its effect on account of the
impediment of sin in the one for whom it is merited. Much more, therefore, is the efficacy
of such merit impeded by the obstacle which is in him who merits, and in him for whom it is
merited; for both these are in the same person. And therefore a man can nowise merit for himself
restoration after a fall.

Reply Obj. 1: The desire whereby we seek for restoration after a fall is called just, and likewise
the prayer whereby this restoration is besought is called just, because it tends to justice;
and not that it depends on justice by way of merit, but only on mercy.

Reply Obj. 2: Anyone may congruously merit for another his first grace, because there is no
impediment (at least, on the part of him who merits), such as is found when anyone recedes
from justice after the merit of grace.

Reply Obj. 3: Some have said that no one absolutely merits life everlasting except by the act
of final grace, but only conditionally, i.e. if he perseveres. But it is unreasonable to say
this, for sometimes the act of the last grace is not more, but less meritorious than preceding
acts, on account of the prostration of illness. Hence it must be said that every act of charity
merits eternal life absolutely; but by subsequent sin, there arises an impediment to the preceding
merit, so that it does not obtain its effect; just as natural causes fail of their effects
on account of a supervening impediment.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 8]

Whether a Man May Merit the Increase of Grace or Charity?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man cannot merit an increase of grace or charity. For when
anyone receives the reward he merited no other reward is due to him; thus it was said of some
(Matt. 6:2): "They have received their reward." Hence, if anyone were to merit the increase
of charity or grace, it would follow that, when his grace has been increased, he could not
expect any further reward, which is unfitting.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing acts beyond its species. But the principle of merit is grace or charity,
as was shown above (AA. 2, 4). Therefore no one can merit greater grace or charity than he has.

