Toasting having commenced, as usual, it was proceeded with. Sponge's health followed that of
Mr. Pacey's, Mr. Puffington availing himself of the opportunity afforded by proposing it, of
expressing the gratification it afforded himself and all true sportsmen to see so distinguished
a character in the country; and he concluded by hoping that the diminution of his stud would
not interfere with the length of his visit--a toast that was drunk with great applause.

Mr. Sponge replied by saying, 'That he certainly had not intended parting with his horse, though
one more or less was neither here nor there, especially in these railway times, when a man
had nothing to do but take a half-guinea's worth of electric wire, and have another horse in
less than no time; but Mr. Pacey having taken a fancy to the horse, he had been more accommodating
to him than he had to his friend, Mr. Spraggon, if he would allow him to call him so (Jack
squinted and bowed assent), who,' continued Mr. Sponge, 'had in vain attempted that morning
to get him to put a price upon him.'

'Very true,' whispered Jack to Pacey, with a feel of the elbow in his ribs, adding, in an undertone,
'the beggar doesn't think I've got him in spite of him, though.'

'The horse,' Mr. Sponge continued, 'was an undeniable good 'un, and he wished Mr. Pacey joy
of his bargain.'

This venture having been so successful, others attempted similar means, appointing Mr. Spraggon
the arbitrator. Captain Guano challenged Mr. Fogo's phaeton, while Mr. Fogo retaliated upon
the captain's chestnut horse; but the captain did not hold money to the award. Blossomnose
challenged Mr. Miller's pig; but the latter could not be induced to claim anything of the worthy
rector's for Mr. Spraggon to exercise his appraising talents upon. After an evening of much
noise and confusion, the wine-heated party at last broke up--the staying company retiring to
their couches, and the outlying ones finding their ways home as best they could.

CHAPTER XLII

THE MORNING'S REFLECTIONS

When young Pacey awoke in the morning he had a very bad headache, and his temples throbbed
as if the veins would burst their bounds. The first thing that recalled the actual position
of affairs to his mind was feeling under the pillow for his watch: a fruitless search that
ended in recalling something of the overnight's proceedings.

Pacey liked a cheap flash, and when elated with wine might be betrayed into indiscretions that
his soberer moments were proof against. Indeed, among youths of his own age he was reckoned
rather a sharp hand; and it was the vanity of associating with men, and wishing to appear a
match for them, that occasionally brought him into trouble. In a general way, he was a very
cautious hand.

He now lay tumbling and tossing about in bed, and little by little he laid together the outline
of the evening's proceedings, beginning with his challenging Mr. Sponge's chestnut, and ending
with the resignation of his watch and chain. He thought he was wrong to do anything of the
sort. He didn't want the horse, not he. What should he do with him? he had one more than he
wanted as it was. Then, paying for him seventy sovereigns! confound it, it would be very inconvenient--most
inconvenient--indeed, he couldn't do it, so there was an end of it. The facilities of carrying
out after-dinner transactions frequently vanish with the morning's sun. So it was with Mr.
Pacey. Then he began to think how to get out of it. Should he tell Mr. Sponge candidly the
state of his finances, and trust to his generosity for letting him off? Was Mr. Sponge a likely
man to do it? He thought he was. But, then, would he blab? He thought he would, and that would
blow him among those by whom he wished to be thought knowing, a man not to be done. Altogether
he was very much perplexed: seventy pounds was a vast of money; and then there was his watch
gone, too! a hundred and more altogether. He must have been drunk to do it--very drunk, he
should say; and then he began to think whether he had not better treat it as an after-dinner
frolic, and pretend to forget all about it. That seemed feasible.

All at once it occurred to Pacey that Mr. Spraggon was the purchaser, and that he was only
a middle-man. His headache forsook him for the moment, and he felt a new man. It was clearly
the case, and bit by bit he recollected all about it. How Jack had told him to challenge the
horse, and he would stand to the bargain; how he had whispered him (Pacey) to name him (Jack)
arbitrator; and how he had done so, and Jack had made the award. Then he began to think that
the horse must be a good one, as Jack would not set too high a price on him, seeing that he
was the purchaser. Then he wondered that he had put enough on to induce Sponge to sell him:
that rather puzzled him. He lay a long time tossing, and proing and coning, without being able
to arrive at any satisfactory solution of the matter. At last he rang his bell, and finding
it was eight o'clock he got up, and proceeded to dress himself; which operation being accomplished,
he sought Jack's room, to have a little confidential conversation with him on the subject,
and arrange about paying Sponge for the horse, without letting out who was the purchaser.

Jack was snoring, with his great mouth wide open, and his grizzly head enveloped in a white
cotton nightcap. The noise of Pacey entering awoke him.

'Well, old boy' growled he, turning over as soon as he saw who it was, 'what are you up to?'

'Oh, nothing particular,' replied Mr. Pacey, in a careless sort of tone.

'Then make yourself scarce, or I'll baptize you in a way you won't like,' growled Jack, diving
under the bedclothes.

'Oh, why I just wanted to have--have half a dozen words with you about our last night's' (ha--hem--haw!)
'handicap, you know--about the horse, you know.'

'About the w-h-a-w-t?' drawled Jack, as if perfectly ignorant of what Pacey was talking about.

'About the horse, you know--about Mr. Sponge's horse, you know--that you got me to challenge
for you, you know,' stammered Pacey.

'Oh, dash it, the chap's drunk,' growled Jack aloud to himself, adding to Pacey, 'you shouldn't
get up so soon, man--sleep the drink off.'

Pacey stood nonplussed.

'Don't you remember, Mr. Spraggon,' at last asked he, after watching the tassel of Jack's cap
peeping above the bedclothes, 'what took place last night, you know? You asked me to get you
Mr. Sponge's chestnut, and you know I did, you know.'

'Hout, lad, disperse!--get out of this!' exclaimed Jack, starting his great red face above
the bedclothes and squinting frightfully at Pacey.

'Well, my dear friend, but you did,' observed Pacey soothingly.

'Nonsense!' roared Jack, again ducking under.

Pacey stood agape.

'Come!' exclaimed Jack, again starting up, 'cut your stick!--be off!--make yourself scarce!--give
your rags a gallop, in short!--don't be after disturbin' a gen'leman of fortin's rest in this way.'

'But, my dear Mr. Spraggon,' resumed Pacey, in the same gentle tone, 'you surely forget what
you asked me to do.'

'I do,' replied Jack firmly.

'Well, but, my dear Mr. Spraggon, if you'll have the kindness to recollect--to consider--to
reflect on what passed, you'll surely remember commissioning me to challenge Mr. Sponge's horse
for you?'

'Me!' exclaimed Jack, bouncing up in bed, and sitting squinting furiously. 'Me!' repeated he;
'unpossible. How could I do such a thing? Why, I handicap'd him, man, for you, man?'

'You told me, for all that,' replied Mr. Pacey, with a jerk of the head.

'Oh, by Jove!' exclaimed Jack, taking his cap by the tassel, and twisting it off his head,'
that won't do!--downright impeachment of one's integrity. Oh, by Jingo! that won't do!' motioning
as if he was going to bounce out of bed;' can't stand that--impeach one's integrity, you know,
better take one's life, you know. Life without honour's nothin', you know. Cock Pheasant at
Weybridge, six o'clock i' the mornin'!'

'Oh, I assure you, I didn't mean anything of that sort,' exclaimed Mr. Pacey, frightened at
Jack's vehemence, and the way in which he now foamed at the mouth, and flourished his nightcap
about. 'Oh, I assure you, I didn't mean anything of that sort,' repeated he, 'only I thought
p'raps you mightn't recollect all that had passed, p'raps; and if we were to talk matters quietly
over, by putting that and that together, we might assist each other and--'

'Oh, by Jove!' interrupted Jack, dashing his nightcap against the bedpost, 'too late for anything
of that sort, sir--downright impeachment of one's integrity, sir--must be settled another way,
sir.'

'But, I assure you, you mistake!' exclaimed Pacey.

'Rot your mistakes!' interrupted Jack; 'there's no mistake in the matter. You've reglarly impeached
my integrity--blood of the Spraggons won't stand that. "Death before Dishonour!"' shouted he,
at the top of his voice, flourishing his nightcap over his head, and then dashing it on to
the middle of the floor.

'What's the matter?--what's the matter?--what's the matter?' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, rushing
through the connecting door. 'What's the matter?' repeated he, placing himself between the
bed in which Jack still sat upright, squinting his eyes inside out, and where Mr. Pacey stood.

'Oh, Mr. Sponge!' exclaimed Jack, clasping his raised hands in thankfulness, 'I'm so glad you're
here!--I'm so thankful you're come! I've been insulted!--oh, goodness, how I've been insulted!'
added he, throwing himself back in the bed, as if thoroughly overcome with his feelings.

'Well, but what's the matter?--what is it all about?' asked Sponge coolly, having a pretty
good guess what it was.

'Never was so insulted in my life!' ejaculated Jack, from under the bedclothes.

'Well but what is it?' repeated Sponge, appealing to Pacey, who stood as pale as ashes.

'Oh! nothing,' replied he; 'quite a mistake; Mr. Spraggon misunderstood me altogether.'

'Mistake! There's no mistake in the matter!' exclaimed Jack, appearing again on the surface
like an otter; 'you gave me the lie as plain as a pikestaff.'

'Indeed!' observed Mr. Sponge, drawing in his breath and raising his eyebrows right up into
the roof of his head. 'Indeed!' repeated he.

'No; nothing of the sort, I assure you,' asserted Mr. Pacey.

'Must have satisfaction!' exclaimed Jack, again diving under the bedclothes.

'Well, but let us hear how matters stand,' said Mr. Sponge coolly, as Jack's grizzly head disappeared.

'You'll be my second,' growled Jack, from under the bedclothes.

'Oh! second be hanged,' retorted Sponge. 'You've nothing to fight about; Mr. Pacey says he
didn't mean anything, that you misunderstood him, and what more can a man want?'

'Just so,' replied Mr. Pacey, 'just so. I assure you I never intended the slightest imputation
on Mr. Spraggon.'

'I'm sure not,' replied Mr. Sponge.

'H-u-m-p-h,' grunted Jack from under the bedclothes, like a pig in the straw. Not showing any
disposition to appear on the surface again, Mr. Sponge, after standing a second or two, gave
a jerk of his head to Mr. Pacey, and forthwith conducted him into his own room, shutting the
door between Mr. Spraggon and him.

Mr. Sponge then inquired into the matter, kindly sympathizing with Mr. Pacey, who he was certain
never meant anything disrespectful to Mr. Spraggon, who, Mr. Sponge thought, seemed rather
quick at taking offence; though, doubtless, as Mr. Sponge observed, 'a man was perfectly right
in being tenacious of his integrity,' a position that he illustrated by a familiar passage
from Shakespeare, about stealing a purse and stealing trash, &c.

Emboldened by his kindness, Mr. Pacey then got Mr. Sponge on to talk about the horse of which
he had become the unwilling possessor--the renowned chestnut, Multum-in-Parvo.

Mr. Sponge spoke like a very prudent, conscientious man; said that really it was difficult
to give an opinion about a horse; that what suited one man might not suit another--that he
considered Multum-in-Parvo a very good horse; indeed, that he wouldn't have parted with him
if he hadn't more than he wanted, and the cream of the season had passed without his meeting
with any of those casualties that rendered the retention of an extra horse or two desirable.
Altogether, he gave Mr. Pacey to understand that he held him to his bargain. Having thanked
Sponge for his great kindness, and got an order on the groom (Mr. Leather) to have the horse
out, Mr. Pacey took his departure to the stable, and Sponge having summoned his neighbour Mr.
Spraggon from his bed, the two proceeded to a passage window that commanded a view of the stable-yard.

Mr. Pacey presently went swaggering across it, cracking his jockey whip against his leg, followed
by Mr. Leather, with a saddle on his shoulder and a bridle in his hand.

'He'd better keep his whip quiet,' observed Mr. Sponge, with a shake of his head, as he watched
Pacey's movements.

'The beggar thinks he can ride anything,' observed Jack.

'He'll find his mistake out just now,' replied Sponge.

Presently the stable-door opened, and the horse stepped slowly and quietly out, looking blooming
and bright after his previous day's gallop. Pacey, running his eyes over his clean muscular
legs and finely shaped form, thought he hadn't done so far amiss after all. Leather stood at
the horse's head, whistling and soothing him, feeling anything but the easy confidence that
Mr. Pacey exhibited. Putting his whip under his arm, Pacey just walked up to the horse, and,
placing the point of his foot in the stirrup, hoisted himself on by the mane, without deigning
to take hold of the reins. Having soused himself into the saddle, he then began feeling the
stirrups.

'How are they for length, sir?' asked Leather, with a hitch of his hand to his forehead.

'They'll do,' replied Pacey, in a tone of indifference, gathering up the reins, and applying
his left heel to the horse's side, while he gave him a touch of the whip on the other. The
horse gave a wince, and a hitch up behind; as much as to say, 'If you do that again I'll kick
in right earnest,' and then walked quietly out of the yard.

'I took the fiery edge off him yesterday, I think,' observed Jack, as he watched the horse's
leisurely movements.

'Not so sure of that,' replied Sponge, adding, as he left the passage-window, 'He'll be trying
him in the park; let's go and see him from my window.'

Accordingly, our friends placed themselves at Sponge's bedroom window, and presently the clash
of a gate announced that Sponge was right in his speculation. In another second the horse and
rider appeared in sight--the horse going much at his ease, but Mr. Pacey preparing himself
for action. He began working the bridle and kicking his sides, to get him into a canter; an
exertion that produced quite a contrary effect, for the animal slackened his pace as Pacey's
efforts increased. When, however, he took his whip from under his arm, the horse darted right
up into the air, and plunging down again, with one convulsive effort shot Mr. Pacey several
yards over his head, knocking his head clean through his hat. The brute then began to graze,
as if nothing particular had happened. This easy indifference, however, did not extend to the
neighbourhood; for no sooner was Mr. Pacey floored than there was such a rush of grooms, and
helpers, and footmen, and gardeners--to say nothing of women, from all parts of the grounds,
as must have made it very agreeable to him to know how he had been watched. One picked him
up--another his hat-crown--a third his whip--a fourth his gloves--while Margaret, the housemaid,
rushed to the rescue with her private bottle of sal volatile--and John, the under-butler, began
to extricate him from the new-fashioned neckcloth he had made of his hat.

Though our friend was a good deal shaken by the fall, the injury to his body was trifling compared
to that done to his mind. Being kicked off a horse was an indignity he had never calculated
upon. Moreover, it was done in such a masterly manner as clearly showed it could be repeated
at pleasure. In addition to which everybody laughs at a man that is kicked off. All these considerations
rushed to his mind, and made him determine not to brook the mirth of the guests as well as
the servants.

Accordingly he borrowed a hat and started off home, and seeking his guardian, Major Screw,
confided to him the position of affairs. The major, who was a man of the world, forthwith commenced
a negotiation with Mr. Sponge, who, after a good deal of haggling, and not until the horse
had shot the major over his head, too, at length, as a great favour, consented to take fifty
pounds to rescind the bargain, accompanying his kindness by telling the major to advise his
ward never to dabble in horseflesh after dinner; a piece of advice that we also very respectfully
tender to our juvenile readers.

And Sponge shortly after sent Spraggon a five pound note as his share of the transaction.

CHAPTER XLIII

ANOTHER SICK HOST

When Mr. Puffington read Messrs. Sponge and Spraggon's account of the run with his hounds,
in the Swillingford paper, he was perfectly horrified; words cannot describe the disgust that
he felt. It came upon him quite by surprise, for he expected to be immortalized in some paper
or work of general circulation, in which the Lords Loosefish, Sir Toms, and Sir Harrys of former
days might recognize the spirited doings of their early friend. He wanted the superiority of
his establishment, the excellence of his horses, the stoutness of his hounds, and the polish
of his field, proclaimed, with perhaps a quiet cut at the Flat-Hat gentry; instead of which
he had a mixed medley sort of a mess, whose humdrum monotony was only relieved by the absurdities
and errors with which it was crammed. At first, Mr. Puffington could not make out what it meant,
whether it was a hoax for the purpose of turning run-writing into ridicule, or it had suffered
mutilation at the hands of the printer. Calling a good scent an exquisite perfume looked suspicious
of a hoax, but then seasonal fox for seasoned fox, scorning to cry for scoring to cry, bay
fox for bag fox, grunting for hunting, thrashing for trashing, rests for casts, and other absurdities,
looked more like accident than design.

These are the sort of errors that non-sporting compositors might easily make, one term being
as much like English to them as the other, though amazingly different to the eye or the ear
of a sportsman. Mr. Puffington was thoroughly disgusted. He was sick of hounds and horses,
and Bragg, and hay and corn, and kennels and meal, and saddles and bridles; and now, this absurdity
seemed to cap the whole thing. He was ill-prepared for such a shock. The exertion of successive
dinner-giving--above all, of bachelor dinner-giving--and that too in the country, where men
sit, talk, talk, talking, sip, sip, sipping, and 'just another bottle-ing'; more, we believe,
from want of something else to do than from any natural inclination to exceed; the exertion,
we say, of such parties had completely unstrung our fat friend, and ill-prepared his nerves
for such a shock. Being a great man for his little comforts, he always breakfasted in his dressing-room,
which he had fitted up in the most luxurious style, and where he had his newspapers (most carefully
ironed out) laid with his letters against he came in. It was late on the morning following
our last chapter ere he thought he had got rid of as much of his winey headache as fitful sleep
would carry off, and enveloped himself in a blue and yellow-flowered silk dressing-gown and
Turkish slippers. He looked at his letters, and knowing their outsides, left them for future
perusal, and sousing himself into the depths of a many-cushioned easy-chair, proceeded to spell
his Morning Post--Tattersall's advertisements--'Grosjean's Pale-tots'--'Mr. Albert Smith'--'Coals,
best Stewart Hetton or Lambton's'--'Police Intelligence,' and such other light reading as does
not require any great effort to connect or comprehend.

Then came his breakfast, for which he had very little appetite, though he relished his coffee,
and also an anchovy. While dawdling over these, he heard sundry wheels grinding about below
the window, and the bumping and thumping of boxes, indicative of 'goings away,' for which he
couldn't say he felt sorry. He couldn't even be at the trouble of getting up and going to the
window to see who it was that was off, so weary and head-achy was he. He rolled and lolled
in his chair, now taking a sip of coffee, now a bite of anchovy toast, now considering whether
he durst venture on an egg, and again having recourse to the Post. At last, having exhausted
all the light reading in it, and scanned through the list of hunting appointments, he took
up the Swillingford paper to see that they had got his 'meets' right for the next week. How
astonished he was to find the previous day's run staring him in the face, headed 'SPLENDID
RUN WITH MR. PUFFINGTON'S HOUNDS,' in the imposing type here displayed. 'Well, that's quick
work, however,' said he, casting his eyes up to the ceiling in astonishment, and thinking how
unlike it was the Swillingford papers, which were always a week, but generally a fortnight
behindhand with information. 'Splendid run with Mr. Puffington's hounds,' read he again, wondering
who had done it: Bardolph, the innkeeper; Allsop, the cabinet-maker; Tuggins, the doctor, were
all out; so was Weatherhog, the butcher. Which of them could it be? Grimes, the editor, wasn't
there; indeed, he couldn't ride, and the country was not adapted for a gig.

He then began to read it, and the further he got the more he was disgusted. At last, when he
came to the 'seasonal fox, which some thought was a bay one,' his indignation knew no bounds,
and crumpling the paper up in a heap, he threw it from him in disgust. Just then in came Plummey,
the butler. Plummey saw at a glance what had happened; for Mr. Bragg, and the whips, and the
grooms, and the helpers, and the feeder--the whole hunting establishment--were up in arms at
the burlesque, and vowing vengeance against the author of it. Mr. Spraggon, on seeing what
a mess had been made of his labours, availed himself of the offer of a seat in Captain Guano's
dog-cart, and was clear of the premises; while Mr. Sponge determined to profit by Spraggon's
absence, and lay the blame on him.

'Oh, Plummey!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, as his servant entered, 'I'm deuced unwell--quite
knocked up, in short,' clapping his hand on his forehead, adding, 'I shall not be able to dine
downstairs to-day.'

''Deed, sir,' replied Mr. Plummey, in a tone of commiseration--''deed, sir; sorry to hear that,
sir.'

'Are they all gone?' asked Mr. Puffington, dropping his boiled-gooseberry-looking eyes upon
the fine-flowered carpet.

'All gone, sir--all gone,' replied Mr. Plummey; 'all except Mr. Sponge.'

'Oh, he's still here!' replied Mr. Puffington, shuddering with disgust at the recollection
of the newspaper run. 'Is he going to-day?' asked he.

'No, sir--I dare say not, sir,' replied Mr. Plummey. 'His man--his groom--his--whatever he
calls him, expects they'll be staying some time.'

'The deuce!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, whose hospitality, like Jawleyford's, was greater in
imagination than in reality.

'Shall I take these things away?' asked Plummey, after a pause.

'Couldn't you manage to get him to go?' asked Mr. Puffington, still harping on his remaining guest.

'Don't know, sir. I could try, sir--believe he's bad to move, sir,' replied Plummey, with a grin.

'Is he really?' replied Mr. Puffington, alarmed lest Sponge should fasten himself upon him
for good.

'They say so,' replied Mr. Plummey, 'but I don't speak from any personal knowledge, for I know
nothing of the man.'

'Well,' said Mr. Puffington, amused at his servant's exclusiveness, 'I wish you would try to
get rid of him, bow him out civilly, you know--say I'm unwell--very unwell--deuced unwell--ordered
to keep quiet--say it as if from yourself, you know--it mustn't appear as if it came from me,
you know.'

'In course not,' replied Mr. Plummey, 'in course not,' adding, 'I'll do my best, sir--I'll
do my best.' So saying, he took up the breakfast things and departed.

Mr. Sponge regaling himself with a cigar in the stables and shrubberies, it was some time before
Mr. Plummey had an opportunity of trying his diplomacy upon him, it being contrary to Mr. Plummey's
custom to go out of doors after any one. At last he saw Sponge coming lounging along the terrace-walk,
looking like a man thoroughly disengaged, and, timing himself properly, encountered him in
the entrance.

'Beg pardon, sir,' said Mr. Plummey, 'but cook, sir, wishes to know, sir, if you dine here
to-day, sir?'

'Of course,' replied Mr. Sponge, 'where would you have me dine?'

'Oh, I don't know, sir--only Mr. Puffington, sir, is very poorly, sir, and I thought p'raps
you'd be dining out.

'Poorly is he?' replied Mr. Sponge; 'sorry to hear that--what's the matter with him?'

'Bad bilious attack, I think,' replied Plummey--'very subject to them, at this time of year
particklarly; was laid up, at least confined to his room, three weeks last year of a similar
attack.'

'Indeed!' replied Mr. Sponge, not relishing the information.

'Then I must say you'll dine here?' said the butler.

'Yes; I must have my dinner, of course,' replied Mr. Sponge. 'I'm not ill, you know. No occasion
to make a great spread for me, you know; but still I must have some victuals, you know.'

'Certainly, sir, certainly,' replied Mr. Plummey.

'I couldn't think of leaving Mr. Puffington when he's poorly,' observed Mr. Sponge, half to
himself and half to the butler.

'Oh, master--that's to say, Mr. Puffington--always does best when left alone,' observed Mr.
Plummey, catching at the sentence: 'indeed the medical men recommend perfect quiet and moderate
living as the best thing.'

'Do they?' replied Sponge, taking out another cigar. Mr. Plummey then withdrew, and presently
went upstairs to report progress, or rather want of progress, to the gentleman whom he sometimes
condescended to call 'master.'

Mr. Puffington had been taking another spell at the paper, and we need hardly say that the
more he read of the run the less he liked it.

'Ah, that's Mr. Sponge's handiwork,' observed Plummey, as with a sneer of disgust Mr. Puffington
threw the paper from him as Plummey entered the room.

'How do you know?' asked Mr. Puffington.

'Saw it, sir--saw it in the letter-bag going to the post.'

'Indeed!' replied Mr. Puffington.

'Mr. Spraggon and he did it after they came in from hunting.'

'I thought as much,' replied Mr. Puffington, in disgust.

Mr. Plummey then related how unsuccessful had been his attempts to get rid of the now most
unwelcome guest. With
full accuracy, we refer to a musical theme as a great, graceful, intimately, mindless, trivial,
but all these terms describe the musical character of the place. To characterize this musical expression
of a subject we often choose words from our emotional life, as "proud, sullen, tender, courageous,"
yearning. We can also take the names of other parties and a music phenomenon, "fragrant, spring-fresh,
misty, frosty call" feelings are so identifying musical character just like other phenomena, which provide
for similarities. Such epithets may be needed in the consciousness of its imagery, so you
can not do without her, only to be told to beware: this music depicts
pride, etc. The detailed analysis of all musical determinations of
a topic convinced us, however, that - despite all the inscrutability
last ontological reasons - but a number of more immediate causes are,
by what the spiritual expression of music is in exact context.

Every
single musical element (ie each interval, every tone, every chord, every rhythm, etc.) has its
peculiar physiognomy, to contribute its particular way. Inscrutable,
the artist is to explore the artwork. The same theme sounds different
than the triad, as more than a sixth chord, a melody step in the
seventh with very different character than in the sixth, the rhythm
that accompanies a motive, whether loud or soft, by this or that sound
generic, changes the specific staining : just one point each factor
contributes to the need that they just assumed that intellectual expression,
and no other acts on the handset.

What bizarre HalÃ©vysche the music that makes Aubersche graceful, which causes the singularity,
in which we recognize immediately Mendelssohn, Spohr, all this can be attributed to purely musical
terms, without reference to the mysterious feeling.

Why the frequent Quintsext chords, the narrow, diatonic themes of Mendelssohn, the chromatic and enharmonic
with Spohr, the short, two-part rhythms in Auber produce so just
this certain immiscible impression - this may answer, however, neither
the psychology nor the physiology . However, when determining cause
for the next question - and that is what indeed excellent in the
art - so is the passionate influence of a topic not in the supposedly
excessive pain of the composer, but in its excessive intervals, not
in the trembling of his soul, but in the tremolo of the drums, not
in his desire, but in the chromatic scale.

The relationship should not both be ignored, but considered in more detail soon, but noted that the
available scientific research on the effect of a topic only those musical immutable and objective factors,
not the supposed spirit that filled the composer here.

If we conclude from this direct impact on the effect of the work, or declared out of that, then
the conclusion may turn out correct, but the most important middle link of the deduction, namely
the music itself was skipped. The practical knowledge of the nature
of each musical element has the capable composer, it was held in more
instinctive or deliberate manner.

On the scientific
explanation of the different musical effects and impressions, however,
is a theoretical knowledge of these characters, most of its composition
down to the last identifiable element.
 His hunting-costume consisted of a black coat and waistcoat, with white moleskin breeches,
much cracked and darned about the knees and other parts, as nether garments made of that treacherous
stuff often are. His shapeless tops, made regardless of the refinements of 'right and left,'
dangled at his horse's sides like a couple of stable-buckets; and he carried his heavy iron
hammer-headed whip over his shoulder like a flail. But we are drawing his portrait instead
of saying why he hunted. Well, then, having married Mrs. Springwheat's sister, who was always
boasting to Mrs. Crowdey what a loving, doting husband Springey was after hunting, Mrs. Crowdey
had induced Crowdey to try his hand, and though soon satisfied that he hadn't the slightest
taste for the sport, but being a great man for what he called gibbey-sticks, he hunted for
the purpose of finding them. As we said before, he generally appeared at large woodlands, into
which he would ride with the hounds, plunging through the stiffest clay, and forcing his way
through the strongest thickets, making observations all the while of the hazels, and the hollies,
and the blackthorns, and, we are sorry to say, sometimes of the young oaks and ashes, that
he thought would fashion into curious-handled walking-sticks; and these he would return for
at a future day, getting them with as large clubs as possible, which he would cut into the
heads of beasts, or birds, or fishes, or men. At the time of which we are writing, he had accumulated
a vast quantity--thousands; the garret at the top of his house was quite full, so were most
of the closets, while the rafters in the kitchen, and cellars, and out-houses, were crowded
with others in a state of déshabille. He calculated his stock at immense worth, we don't know
how many thousand pounds; and as he cut, and puffed, and wheezed, and modelled, with a volume
of Buffon, or the picture of some eminent man before him, he chuckled, and thought how well
he was providing for his family. He had been at it so long, and argued so stoutly, that Mrs.
Jogglebury Crowdey, if not quite convinced of the accuracy of his calculations, nevertheless
thought it well to encourage his hunting predilections, inasmuch as it brought him in contact
with people he would not otherwise meet, who, she thought, might possibly be useful to their
children. Accordingly, she got him his breakfast betimes on hunting-mornings, charged his pockets
with currant-buns, and saw to the mending of his moleskins when he came home, after any of
those casualties that occur as well in the chase as in gibbey-stick hunting.

A stranger being a marked man in a rural country, Mr. Sponge excited more curiosity in Mr.
Jogglebury Crowdey's mind than Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey did in Mr. Sponge's. In truth, Jogglebury
was one of those unsportsmanlike beings, that a regular fox-hunter would think it waste of
words to inquire about, and if Mr. Sponge saw him, he did not recollect him; while, on the
other hand, Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey went home very full of our friend. Now, Mrs. Jogglebury
Crowdey was a fine, bustling, managing woman, with a large family, for whom she exerted all
her energies to procure desirable god-papas and mammas; and, no sooner did she hear of this
newcomer, than she longed to appropriate him for god-papa to their youngest son.

'Jog, my dear,' said she, to her spouse, as they sat at tea; 'it would be well to look after him.'

'What for, my dear?' asked Jog, who was staring a stick, with a half-finished head of Lord
Brougham for a handle, out of countenance.

'What for, Jog? Why, can't you guess?'

'No,' replied Jog doggedly.

'No!' ejaculated his spouse. 'Why, Jog, you certainly are the stupidest man in existence.'

'Not necessarily!' replied Jog, with a jerk of his head and a puff into his shirt-frill that
set it all in a flutter.

'Not necessarily!' replied Mrs. Jogglebury, who was what they call a 'spirited woman,' in the
same rising tone as before. 'Not necessarily! but I say necessarily--yes, necessarily. Do you
hear me, Mr. Jogglebury?'

'I hear you,' replied Jogglebury scornfully, with another jerk, and another puff into the frill.

The two then sat silent for some minutes, Jogglebury still contemplating the progressing head
of Lord Brougham, and recalling the eye and features that some five-and-twenty years before
had nearly withered him in a breach of promise action, 'Smiler v. Jogglebury,'[3] that being
our friend's name before his uncle Crowdey left him his property.

Mrs. Jogglebury having an object in view, and knowing that, though Jogglebury might lead, he
would not drive, availed herself of the lull to trim her sail, to try and catch him on the
other tack.

'Well, Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey,' said she, in a passive tone of regret, 'I certainly thought
however indifferent you might be to me' (and here she applied her handkerchief--rather a coarse
one--to her eyes) 'that still you had some regard for the interests of your (sob) children';
and here the waterfalls of her beady black eyes went off in a gush.

'Well, my dear,' replied Jogglebury, softened, 'I'm (puff) sure I'm (wheeze) anxious for my
(puff) children. You don't s'pose if I wasn't (puff), I'd (wheeze) labour as I (puff--wheeze)
do to leave them fortins?'--alluding to his exertions in the gibbey-stick line.

'Oh, Jog, I dare say you're very good and very industrious,' sobbed Mrs. Jogglebury, 'but I
sometimes (sob) think that you might apply your (sob) energies to a better (sob) purpose.'

'Indeed, my dear (puff), I don't see that (wheeze),' replied Jogglebury, mildly.

'Why, now, if you were to try and get this rich Mr. Sponge for a god-papa for Gustavus James,'
continued she, drying her eyes as she came to the point, 'that, I should say, would be worthy
of you.'

'But, my (puff) dear,' replied Jogglebury, 'I don't know Mr. (wheeze) Sponge, to begin with.'

'That's nothing,' replied Mrs. Jogglebury; 'he's a stranger, and you should call upon him.'

Mr. Jogglebury sat silent, still staring at Lord Brougham, thinking how he pitched into him,
and how sick he was when the jury, without retiring from the box, gave five hundred pounds
damages against him.

'He's a fox-hunter, too,' continued his wife; 'and you ought to be civil to him.'

'Well, but, my (puff) dear, he's as likely to (wheeze) these fifty years as any (puff, wheeze)
man I ever looked at,' replied Jogglebury.

'Oh, nonsense,' replied Mrs. Jogglebury; 'there's no saying when a fox-hunter may break his
neck. My word! but Mrs. Slooman tells me pretty stories of Sloo's doings with the harriers--jumping
over hurdles, and everything that comes in the way, and galloping along the stony lanes as
if the wind was a snail compared to his horse. I tell you. Jog, you should call on this gentleman--'

'Well,' replied Mr. Jogglebury.

'And ask him to come and stay here,' continued Mrs. Jogglebury.

'Perhaps he mightn't like it (puff),' replied Jogglebury. 'I don't know that we could (puff)
entertain him as he's (wheeze) accustomed to be,' added he.

'Oh, nonsense,' replied Mrs. Jogglebury; 'we can entertain him well enough. You always say
fox-hunters are not ceremonious. I tell you what, Jog, you don't think half enough of yourself.
You are far too easily set aside. My word! but I know some people who would give themselves
pretty airs if their husband was chairman of a board of guardians, and trustee of I don't know
how many of Her Majesty's turnpike roads,' Mrs. Jog here thinking of her sister Mrs. Springwheat,
who, she used to say, had married a mere farmer. 'I tell you, Jog, you're far too humble, you
don't think half enough of yourself.'

'Well, but, my (puff) dear, you don't (puff) consider that all people ain't (puff) fond of
(wheeze) children,' observed Jogglebury, after a pause. 'Indeed, I've (puff) observed that
some (wheeze) don't like them.'

