Whether the conferences respecting this partition were really of a serious nature, or merely
the communication of a great idea, is uncertain; so much is certain, that shortly after the
interview at Tilsit, Alexander's ambition was very sensibly moderated. The suggestions of prudence
had shown him the danger of substituting for the ignorant, infatuated, and feeble Turkey, an
active, powerful, and unaccommodating neighbour. In his conversations on the subject at that
time, he remarked, "that he had already too much desert country; that he knew too well, by
the occupation of the Crimea, which was still depopulated, the value of conquest over foreign
and hostile religions and manners; that besides, France and Russia were too strong to become
such near neighbours; that two such powerful bodies coming into immediate contact, would be
sure to jostle; and that it was much better to leave intermediate powers between them."

On the other side, the French emperor urged the matter no further; the Spanish insurrection
diverted his attention, and imperiously required his presence with all his forces. Even previous
to the interview at Erfurt, after Sebastiani's return from Constantinople, although Napoleon
still seemed to adhere to the idea of dismembering Turkey in Europe, he had admitted the correctness
of his ambassador's reasoning: "That in this partition, the advantages would be all against
him; that Russia and Austria would acquire contiguous provinces, which would make their dominions
more complete, while we should be obliged to keep 80,000 men continually in Greece to retain
it in subjection; that such an army, from the distance and losses it would sustain from long
marches, and the novelty and unhealthiness of the climate, would require 30,000 recruits annually,
a number which would quite drain France: that a line of operation extending from Athens to
Paris, was out of all proportion; that besides, it was strangled in its passage at Trieste,
at which point only two marches would enable the Austrians to place themselves across it, and
thereby cut off our army of observation in Greece from all communication with Italy and France."

Here Napoleon exclaimed, "that Austria certainly complicated every thing; that she was there
like a dead weight; that she must be got rid off; and Europe must be divided into two empires:
that the Danube, from the Black Sea to Passau, the mountains of Bohemia to Königsgratz, and
the Elbe to the Baltic, should be their lines of demarcation. Alexander should become the emperor
of the north, and he of the south of Europe." Abandoning, subsequently, these lofty ideas,
and reverting to Sebastiani's observations on the partition of European Turkey, he terminated
the conferences, which had lasted three days, with these words: "You are right, and no answer
can be given to that! I give it up. Besides, that accords with my views on Spain, which I am
going to unite to France."--"What do I hear?" exclaimed Sebastiani, astonished, "unite it!
And your brother!"--"What signifies my brother?" retorted Napoleon; "does one give away a kingdom
like Spain? I am determined to unite it to France. I will give that nation a great national
representation. I will make the emperor Alexander consent to it, by allowing him to take possession
of Turkey to the Danube, and I will evacuate Berlin. As to Joseph, I will indemnify him."

The congress at Erfurt took place just after this. He could have no motive at that time for
supporting the rights of the Turks. The French army, which had advanced imprudently into the
very heart of Spain, had met with reverses. The presence of its leader, and that of his armies
of the Rhine and the Elbe, became there every day more and more necessary, and Austria had
availed herself of the opportunity to take up arms. Uneasy respecting the state of Germany,
Napoleon was therefore anxious to make sure of the dispositions of Alexander, to conclude an
alliance offensive and defensive with him, and even to engage him in a war. Such were the reasons
which induced him to abandon Turkey as far as the Danube to that emperor.

The Porte therefore had very soon reason to reproach us for the war which was renewed between
it and Russia. Notwithstanding, in July, 1808, when Mustapha was dethroned, and succeeded by
Mahmoud, the latter announced his accession to the French emperor; but Napoleon had then to
keep upon terms with Alexander, and felt too much regret at the death of Selim, detestation
of the barbarity of the Mussulmans, and contempt for their unstable government, to allow him
to notice the communication. For three years he had returned no reply to the sultan, and his
silence might be interpreted into a refusal to acknowledge him.

He was in this ambiguous position with the Turks, when all of a sudden, on the 21st of March,
1812, only six weeks before the war with Russia commenced, he solicited an alliance with Mahmoud:
he demanded that, within five days from the period of the communication, all negotiation between
the Turks and Russians should be broken off; and that an army of 100,000 men, commanded by
the sultan himself, should march to the Danube within nine days. The return which he proposed
to make for this assistance was, to put the Porte in possession of the very same Moldavia and
Wallachia, which, under the circumstances, the Russians were but too happy to restore as the
price of a speedy peace; and the promise of procuring the restoration of the Crimea, which
he had made six years before to Selim, was again renewed.

We know not whether the time which this despatch would take to arrive at Constantinople had
been badly calculated, whether Napoleon believed the Turkish army to be stronger than it really
was, or whether he had flattered himself with surprising and captivating the determination
of the divan by so sudden and advantageous a proposition. It can hardly be supposed that he
was ignorant of the long invariable custom of the Mussulmans, which prevented the grand signor
from ever appearing in person at the head of his army.

It appears as if the genius of Napoleon could not stoop so low as to impute to the divan the
brutish ignorance which it exhibited of its real interests. After the manner in which he had
abandoned the interests of Turkey in 1807, perhaps he did not make sufficient allowance for
the distrust which the Mussulmans were likely to entertain of his new promises; he forgot that
they were too ignorant to appreciate the change which recent circumstances had effected in
his political views; and that barbarians like them could still less comprehend the feelings
of dislike with which they had inspired him, by their deposition and murder of Selim, to whom
he was attached, and in conjunction with whom he had hoped to make European Turkey a military
power capable of coping with Russia.

Perhaps he might still have gained over Mahmoud to his cause, if he had sooner made use of
more potent arguments; but, as he has since expressed himself, it revolted his pride to make
use of corruption. We shall besides shortly see him hesitating about beginning a war with Alexander,
or laying too much stress on the alarm with which his immense preparations would inspire that
monarch. It is also possible, that the last propositions which he made to the Turks, being
tantamount to a declaration of war against the Russians, were delayed for the express purpose
of deceiving the Czar as to the period of his invasion. Finally, whether it was from all these
causes, from a confidence founded on the mutual hatred of the two nations, and on his treaty
of alliance with Austria, which had just guaranteed Moldavia and Wallachia to the Turks, he
detained the ambassador whom he sent to them on his road, and waited, as we have just seen,
to the very last moment.

But the divan was surrounded by the Russian, English, Austrian, and Swedish envoys, who with
one voice represented to it, "that the Turks were indebted for their existence in Europe solely
to the divisions which existed among the Christian monarchs; that the moment these were united
under one influence, the Mahometans in Europe would be overwhelmed; and that as the French
emperor was advancing rapidly to the attainment of universal empire, it was him whom the Turks
had most reason to dread."

To these representations were added the intrigues of the two Greek princes Morozi. They were
of the same religion with Alexander, and they looked to him for the possession of Moldavia
and Wallachia. Grown rich by his favours and by the gold of England, these dragomans enlightened
the unsuspecting ignorance of the Turks, as to the occupation and military surveys of the Ottoman
frontiers by the French. They did a great deal more; the first of them influenced the dispositions
of the divan and the capital, and the second those of the grand vizir and the army; and as
the proud Mahmoud resisted, and would only accept an honourable peace, these treacherous Greeks
contrived to disband his army, and compelled him, by insurrections, to sign the degrading treaty
of Bucharest with the Russians.

Such is the power of intrigue in the seraglio; two Greeks whom the Turks despised, there decided
the fate of Turkey, in spite of the sultan himself. As the latter depended for his existence
on the intrigues of his palace, he was, like all despots who shut themselves up in them, obliged
to yield: the Morozi carried the day; but afterwards he had them both beheaded.

CHAP. IV.

In this manner did we lose the support of Turkey; but Sweden still remained to us; her monarch
had sprung from our ranks; a soldier of our army, it was to that he owed his glory and his
throne: was it likely that he would desert our cause on the first opportunity he had of showing
his gratitude? It was impossible to anticipate such ingratitude; still less, that he would
sacrifice the real and permanent interests of Sweden to his former jealousy of Napoleon, and
perhaps to a weakness too common among the upstart favourites of fortune; unless it be that
the submission of men who have newly attained to greatness to those who boast of a transmitted
rank, is a necessity of their position rather than an error of their self-love.

In this great contest between aristocracy and democracy, the ranks of the former had been joined
by one of its most determined enemies. Bernadotte being thrown almost singly among the ancient
courts and nobility, did every thing to merit his adoption by them, and succeeded. But his
success must have cost him dear, as in order to obtain it, he was first obliged to abandon
his old companions, and the authors of his glory, in the hour of peril. At a later period he
did more; he was seen marching over their bleeding corses, joining with all their, and formerly
his, enemies, to overwhelm the country of his birth, and thereby lay that of his adoption at
the mercy of the first czar who should be ambitious of reigning over the Baltic.

On the other hand, it would appear that the character of Bernadotte, and the importance of
Sweden in the decisive struggle which was about to commence, were not sufficiently weighed
in the political balance of Napoleon. His ardent and exclusive genius hazarded too much; he
overloaded a solid foundation so much that he sank it. Thus it was, that after justly appreciating
the Swedish interests as naturally bound up with his, the moment he wished to weaken the power
of Russia, he fancied that he could exact every thing from the Swedes without promising them
any thing in return: his pride did not make any allowance for theirs, judging that they were
too much interested in the success of his cause, for them ever to think of separating themselves
from it.

We must, however, take up the history a little earlier; facts will prove that the defection
of Sweden was as much attributable to the jealous ambition of Bernadotte as to the unbending
pride of Napoleon. It will be seen that her new monarch assumed to himself a great part of
the responsibility of the rupture, by offering his alliance at the price of an act of treachery.

When Napoleon returned from Egypt, he did not become the chief of his equals with all their
concurrence. Such of them as were already jealous of his glory then became still more envious
of his power. As they could not dispute the first, they attempted to refuse obedience to the
second. Moreau, and several other generals, either by persuasion or surprise, had co-operated
in the revolution of the 18th Brumaire: they afterwards repented having done so. Bernadotte
had refused all participation in it. Alone, during the night, in Napoleon's own residence,
amidst a thousand devoted officers, waiting only for the conqueror's orders, Bernadotte, then
a strenuous republican, was daring enough to oppose his arguments, to refuse the second place
in the republic, and to retort upon his anger by threats. Napoleon saw him depart, bearing
himself proudly, and pass through the midst of his partizans, carrying with him his secrets,
and declaring himself his enemy, and even his denouncer. Either from respect to his brother,
to whom Bernadotte was allied by marriage, from moderation, the usual companion of strength,
or from astonishment, he suffered him to depart quietly.

In the course of the same night, a conventicle, consisting of ten deputies of the Council of
Five Hundred, met at the house of S----; thither Bernadotte repaired. They settled, that at
nine o'clock next morning the Council should hold a sitting, to which those only should be
invited who were of the same way of thinking; that there a decree should be passed, that in
imitation of the Council of Ancients, which had prudently named Bonaparte general of its guard,
the Council of Five Hundred had appointed Bernadotte to command theirs; and that the latter,
properly armed, should be in readiness to be summoned to it. It was at S----'s house that this
plan was formed. S---- himself immediately afterwards ran to Napoleon, and disclosed the whole
to him. A threat from the latter was quite sufficient to keep the conspirators in order; not
one of them dared show his face at the Council, and the next day the revolution of the 18th
Brumaire was completed.

Bernadotte was prudent enough afterwards to feign submission, but Napoleon had not forgotten
his opposition. He kept a watchful eye on all his movements. Not long after, he suspected his
being at the head of a republican conspiracy which had been forming against him in the west.
A premature proclamation discovered it; an officer who had been arrested for other causes,
and an accomplice of Bernadotte, denounced the authors. On that occasion Bernadotte's ruin
would have been sealed, if Napoleon had been able to convict him of it.

He was satisfied with banishing him to America, under the title of minister of the Republic.
But fortune favoured Bernadotte, who was already at Rochefort, by delaying his embarkation
until the war with England was renewed. He then refused to go, and Napoleon could no longer
compel him.

All the relations between them had thus been those of hatred; and this check only served to
aggravate them. Soon after, Napoleon was heard reproaching Bernadotte with his envious and
treacherous inaction during the battle of Auerstadt, and his order of the day at Wagram, in
which he had assumed the honour of that victory. He also spoke reproachfully of his character,
as being much more ambitious than patriotic; and perhaps of the fascination of his manners,--all
of them things considered dangerous to a recently established government; and yet he had showered
rank, titles, and distinctions upon him, while Bernadotte, always ungrateful, seemed to accept
them merely as in justice due to his merits, or to the want which was felt of him. These complaints
of Napoleon were not without foundation.

Bernadotte, on his side, abusing the emperor's moderation and desire to keep on terms with
him, gradually incurred an increase of his displeasure, which his ambition was pleased to call
enmity. He demanded why Napoleon had placed him in such a dangerous and false position at Wagram?
why the report of that victory had been so unfavourable to him? to what was he to attribute
the jealous anxiety to weaken his eulogium in the journals by artful notes? Up to that time,
however, the obscure and underhand opposition of this general to his emperor had been of no
importance; but a much wider field was then opened to their misunderstanding.

By the treaty of Tilsit, Sweden, as well as Turkey, had been sacrificed to Russia and the continental
system. The mistaken or mad politics of Gustavus IV. had been the cause of this. Ever since
1804 that monarch appeared to have enlisted himself in the pay of England; it was he also who
had been the first to break the ancient alliance between France and Sweden. He had obstinately
persevered in that false policy to such an extent at first, as to contend against France when
she was victorious over Russia, and afterwards with Russia and France united. The loss of Pomerania,
in 1807, and even that of Finland and the islands of Aland, which were united to Russia in
1808, were not sufficient to shake his obstinacy.

It was then that his irritated subjects resumed that power which had been wrested from them,
in 1772 and 1788, by Gustavus III., and of which his successor made so bad a use. Gustavus
Adolphus IV. was imprisoned and dethroned; his lineal descendants were excluded from the throne;
his uncle was put in his place, and the prince of Holstein-Augustenburg elected hereditary
prince of Sweden. As the war had been the cause of this revolution peace was the result of
it; it was concluded with Russia in 1809; but the newly-elected hereditary prince then died
suddenly.

In the beginning of 1810, France restored Pomerania and the Island of Rugen to Sweden, as the
price of her accession to the continental system. The Swedes, worn out, impoverished, and become
almost islanders, in consequence of the loss of Finland, were very loath to break with England,
and yet they had no remedy; on the other side they stood in awe of the neighbouring and powerful
government of Russia. Finding themselves weak and isolated, they looked round for support.

Bernadotte had just been appointed to the command of the French army which took possession
of Pomerania; his military reputation, and still more that of his nation and its sovereign,
his fascinating mildness, his generosity, and his flattering attentions to the Swedes, with
whom he had to treat, induced several of them to cast their eyes upon him. They appeared to
know nothing of the misunderstanding between this marshal and the emperor; they fancied that
by electing him for their prince, they should not only obtain an able and experienced general,
but also a powerful mediator between France and Sweden, and a certain protector in the emperor:
it happened quite the contrary.

During the intrigues to which this circumstance gave rise, Bernadotte fancied that to his previous
complaints against Napoleon he had to add others. When, in opposition to the king, and the
majority of the members of the diet, he was proposed as successor to the crown of Sweden; when
his pretensions were supported by Charles's prime minister, (a man of no family, who owed,
like him, all his illustration to himself,) and the count de Wrede, the only member of the
diet who had reserved his vote for him; when he came to solicit Napoleon's interference, why
did he, when Charles XIII. desired to know his wishes, exhibit so much indifference? Why did
he prefer the union of the three northern crowns on the head of a prince of Denmark? If he,
Bernadotte, succeeded in the enterprise, he was not at all indebted for it to the emperor of
France; he owed it to the pretensions of the king of Denmark, which counteracted those of the
duke of Augustenburg[3], his most dangerous rival; to the grateful audacity of the baron de
Moerner, who was the first to come to him, and offer to put him on the lists, and to the aversion
of the Swedes to the Danes; above all he owed it to a passport which had been adroitly obtained
by his agent from Napoleon's minister. It was said that this document was audaciously produced
by Bernadotte's secret emissary, as a proof of an autograph mission with which he pretended
to be charged, and of the formal desire of the French emperor to see one of his lieutenants,
and the relation of his brother, placed upon the throne of Sweden.

[Footnote 3: Brother of the deceased prince of that name.]

Bernadotte also felt that he owed this crown to the chance, which brought him in communication
with the Swedes, and made them acquainted with his characteristic qualities; to the birth of
his son, which secured the heredity succession; to the address of his agents, who, either with
or without his authority, dazzled the poverty of the Scandinavians with the promise of fourteen
millions with which his election was to enrich their treasury; and finally to his flattering
attentions, which had gained him the voices of several Swedish officers who had been his prisoners.
But as to Napoleon, what did he owe to him? What was his reply to the news of the offer of
several Swedes, when he himself waited upon him to inform him of it? "I am at too great a distance
from Sweden, to mix myself up in her affairs. You must not reckon upon my support." At the
same time it is true, that either from necessity, from his dreading the election of the duke
of Oldenburg; or finally from respect for the wishes of fortune, Napoleon declared that he
would leave it to her to decide: and Bernadotte was in consequence elected crown prince of Sweden.

The newly-elected prince immediately paid his respects to the emperor, who received him frankly.
"As you are offered the crown of Sweden, I permit you to accept it. I had another wish, as
you know; but, in short, it is your sword which has made you a king, and you are sensible that
it is not for me to stand in the way of your good fortune." He then entered very fully with
him into the whole plan of his policy, in which Bernadotte appeared entirely to concur; every
day he attended the emperor's levee together with his son, mixing with the other courtiers.
By such marks of deference, he completely gained the heart of Napoleon. He was about to depart,
poor. Unwilling that he should present himself to the Swedish throne in that necessitous state,
like a mere adventurer, the emperor generously gave him two millions out of his own treasury;
he even granted to his family the dotations which as a foreign prince he could no longer retain
himself; and they parted on apparent terms of mutual satisfaction.

It was natural that the expectations of Napoleon as to the alliance with Sweden should be heightened
by this election, and by the favours which he had bestowed. At first Bernadotte's correspondence
with him was that of a grateful inferior, but the very moment he was fairly out of France,
feeling himself as it were relieved from a state of long and painful constraint, it is said
that his hatred to Napoleon vented itself in threatening expressions, which, whether true or
false, were reported to the emperor.

On his side, that monarch, forced to be absolute in his continental system, cramped the commerce
of Sweden; he wished her even to exclude American vessels from her ports; and at last he declared
that he would only regard as friends the enemies of Great Britain. Bernadotte was obliged to
make his election; the winter and the sea separated him from the assistance, or protected him
from the attacks, of the English; the French were close to his ports; a war with France therefore
would be real and effective; a war with England would be merely on paper. The prince of Sweden
adopted the latter alternative.

Napoleon, however, being as much a conqueror in peace as in war, and suspecting the intentions
of Bernadotte, had demanded from Sweden several supplies of rigging for his Brest fleet, and
the despatch of a body of troops, which were to be in his pay; in this manner weakening his
allies to subdue his enemies, so as to allow him to be the master of both. He also required
that colonial produce should be subjected in Sweden, the same as in France, to a duty of five
per cent. It is even affirmed that he applied to Bernadotte to allow French custom-house officers
to be placed at Gottenburg. These demands were eluded.

Soon after, Napoleon proposed an alliance between Sweden, Denmark, and the grand duchy of Warsaw;
a northern confederation, of which he would have declared himself protector, like that of the
Rhine. The answer of Bernadotte, without being absolutely negative, had the same effect; it
was the same with the offensive and defensive treaty which Napoleon again proposed to him.
Bernadotte has since declared, that in four successive letters written with his own hand, he
had frankly stated the impossibility he was under of complying with his wishes, and repeated
his protestations of attachment to his former sovereign, but that the latter never deigned
to give him any reply. This impolitic silence (if the fact be true,) can only be attributed
to the pride of Napoleon, which was piqued at Bernadotte's refusals. No doubt he considered
his protestations as too false to deserve any answer.

The irritation increased; the communications became disagreeable; they were interrupted by
the recall of Alquier, the French minister in Sweden. As the pretended declaration of war by
Bernadotte against England remained a dead letter, Napoleon, who was not to be denied or deceived
with impunity, carried on a sharp war against the Swedish commerce by means of his privateers.
By them, and the invasion of Swedish Pomerania on the 27th of January, 1812, he punished Bernadotte
for his deviations from the continental system, and obtained as prisoners several thousand
Swedish soldiers and sailors, whom he had in vain demanded as auxiliaries.

Then also our communications with Russia were broken off. Napoleon immediately addressed himself
to the prince of Sweden; his notes were couched in the style of a lord paramount who fancies
he speaks in the interest of his vassal, who feels the claims he has upon his gratitude or
submission, and who calculates upon his obedience. He demanded that Bernadotte should declare
a real war against England, shut her out from the Baltic, and send an army of 40,000 Swedes
against Russia. In return for this, he promised him his protection, the restoration of Finland,
and twenty millions, in return for an equal amount of colonial produce, which the Swedes were
first to deliver. Austria undertook to support this proposition; but Bernadotte, already feeling
himself settled on the throne, answered like an independent monarch. Ostensibly he declared
himself neutral, opened his ports to all nations, proclaimed his rights and his grievances,
appealed to humanity, recommended peace, and offered himself as a mediator; secretly, he offered
himself to Napoleon at the price of Norway, Finland, and a subsidy.

At the reading of a letter conceived in this new and unexpected style, Bonaparte was seized
with rage and astonishment. He saw in it, and not without reason, a premeditated defection
on the part of Bernadotte, a secret agreement with his enemies! He was filled with indignation;
he exclaimed, striking violently on the letter, and the table on which it lay open: "He! the
rascal! he presume to give me advice! to dictate the law to me! to dare propose such an infamous
act[4] to me! And this from a man who owes every thing to my bounty! What ingratitude!" Then,
pacing the room with rapid strides, at intervals he gave vent to such expressions as these:
"I ought to have expected it! he has always sacrificed every thing to his interests! This is
the same man, who, during his short ministry, attempted the resurrection of the infamous Jacobins!
When he looked only to gain by disorder, he opposed the 18th Brumaire! He it was who was conspiring
in the west against the re-establishment of law and religion! Has not his envious and perfidious
inaction already betrayed the French army at Auerstadt? How many times, from regard to Joseph,
have I pardoned his intrigues and concealed his faults! And yet I have made him general-in-chief,
marshal, duke, prince, and finally king! But see how all these favours and the pardon of so
many injuries, are thrown away on a man like this! If Sweden, half devoured by Russia, for
a century past, has retained her independence, she owes it to the support of France. But it
matters not; Bernadotte requires the baptism of the ancient aristocracy! a baptism of blood,
and of French blood! and you will soon see, that to satisfy his envy and ambition, he will
betray both his native and adopted country."

[Footnote 4: Napoleon no doubt spoke of the proposal which Bernadotte made to him to take Norway
from Denmark, his faithful ally, in order by this act of treachery to purchase the assistance
of Sweden.]

In vain did they attempt to calm him. They represented the difficulties which Bernadotte's
new situation had imposed on him; that the cession of Finland to Russia had separated Sweden
from the continent, almost made an island of that country, and thereby enlisted her in the
English system.--In such critical circumstances, all the need which he had of this ally was
unable to vanquish his pride, which revolted at a proposition which he regarded as insulting;
perhaps also in the new prince of Sweden he still saw the same Bernadotte who was lately his
subject, and his military inferior, and who at last affected to have cut out for himself a
destiny independent of his. From that moment his instructions to his minister bore the impress
of that disposition; the latter, it is true, softened the bitterness of them, but a rupture
became inevitable.

It is uncertain which contributed most to it, the pride of Napoleon, or the ancient jealousy
of Bernadotte; it is certain that on the part of the former the motives of it were honourable.
"Denmark" he said, "was his most faithful ally; her attachment to France had cost her the loss
of her fleet and the burning of her capital. Must he repay a fidelity which had been so cruelly
tried, by an act of treachery such as that of taking Norway from her to give to Sweden?"

As to the subsidy which Sweden required of him, he answered, as he had done to Turkey, "that
if the war was to be carried on with money, England would always be sure to outbid him;" and
above all, "that there was weakness and baseness in triumphing by corruption." Reverting by
this to his wounded pride, he terminated the conference by exclaiming, "Bernadotte impose conditions
on me! Does he fancy then that I have need of him? I will soon bind him to my victorious career,
and compel him to follow my sovereign impulse."

But the active and speculative English, who were out of his reach, made a judicious estimate
of the weak points of his system, and found the Russians ready to act upon their suggestions.
They it was who had been endeavouring for the last three years to draw the forces of Napoleon
into the defiles of Spain, and to exhaust them; it was they also who were on the watch to take
advantage of the vindictive enmity of the prince of Sweden.

Knowing that the active and restless vanity of men newly risen from obscurity is always uneasy
and susceptible, in the presence of ancient parvenus, George and Alexander were lavish of their
promises and flattery, in order to cajole Bernadotte. It was thus that they caressed him, at
the time that the irritated Napoleon was threatening him; they promised him Norway and a subsidy,
when the other, forced to refuse him that province of a faithful ally, took possession of Pomerania.
While Napoleon, a monarch deriving his elevation from himself, relying on the faith of treaties,
on the remembrance of past benefits, and on the real interests of Sweden, required succours
from Bernadotte, the hereditary monarchs of London and Petersburgh required his opinion with
deference, and submitted themselves by anticipation to the counsels of his experience. Finally,
while the genius of Napoleon, the grandeur of his elevation, the importance of his enterprise,
and the habit of their former relations, still classed Bernadotte as his lieutenant, these
monarchs appeared already to treat him as their general. How was it possible for him not to
seek to escape on the one hand from this sense of inferiority, and on the other to resist a
mode of treatment, and promises so seductive? Thus the future prospects of Sweden were sacrificed,
and her independence for ever laid at the mercy of Russian faith by the treaty of Petersburgh,
which Bernadotte signed on the 24th of March, 1812. That of Bucharest, between Alexander and
Mahmoud, was concluded on the 28th of May.--Thus did we lose the support of our two wings.

Nevertheless, the emperor of the French, at the head of more than six hundred thousand men,
and already too far advanced to think of retreating, flattered himself that his strength would
decide every thing; that a victory on the Niemen would cut the knot of all these diplomatic
difficulties, which he despised, probably too much; that then all the monarchs of Europe, compelled
to acknowledge his ascendancy, would be eager to return into his system, and that all those
satellites would be drawn into its vortex.

BOOK II.

CHAPTER I.

Napoleon meanwhile was still at Paris, in the midst of his great officers, who were alarmed
by the terrible encounter which was preparing. The latter had nothing more to acquire, but
much to preserve; their personal interest, therefore, was united with the general desire of
nations, which were fatigued with war; and without disputing the utility of this expedition,
they dreaded its approach. But they only confessed this to each other in secret, either from
fear of giving umbrage, of impairing the confidence of nations, or of being proved wrong by
the result. For that reason, in Napoleon's presence they remained silent, and even appeared
to be uninformed as to a war, which for a considerable time had furnished a subject of conversation
to the whole of Europe.

But at length this respectful taciturnity, which he himself had taken pains to impose, became
disagreeable; he suspected that it proceeded more from disapprobation than reserve. Obedience
was not sufficient for him; it was his wish to combine it with conviction: that was like another
conquest. Besides, no one was more convinced than himself of the power of public opinion, which,
according to him, created or destroyed sovereigns. In short, whether through policy or self-love,
it was his desire to persuade.

Such were the dispositions of Napoleon and of the grandees who surrounded him, when the veil
being about to be rent, and war evident, their silence towards him assumed a greater appearance
of indiscretion than hazarding a few timely words. Some of them, therefore, commenced the task,
and the emperor anticipated the others.

A show was made[5] at first of comprehending all the emergencies of his position. "It was necessary
to complete what had been begun; it was impossible to stop in the midst of so rapid an acclivity,
and so near the summit. The empire of Europe was adapted to his genius; France would become
its centre and its base; great and entire, she would perceive around her none but states so
feeble and so divided, that all coalition among them would become contemptible or impossible;
but with such an object why did he not commence the task by subjecting and partitioning the
states immediately around him?"

[Footnote 5: The arch-chancellor.]

To this objection Napoleon replied, "That such had been his project in 1809, in the war with
Austria, but that the misfortune of Esslingen had deranged his plan; that that event, and the
doubtful dispositions which Russia had since exhibited, had led him to marry an Austrian princess,
and strengthen himself by an alliance with the Austrian against the Russian emperor.

"That he did not create circumstances, but that he would not allow them to escape him; that
he comprehended them all, and held himself in as much readiness as possible for their appearance;
that in order to accomplish his designs, he was fully aware that twelve years were necessary,
but that he could not afford to wait so long.

"That besides, he had not provoked this war; that he had been faithful to his engagements with
Alexander; proofs of which were to be found in the coldness of his relations with Turkey and
Sweden, which had been delivered up to Russia, one almost entirely, the other shorn of Finland,
and even of the Isle of Aland, which was so near Stockholm. That he had only replied to the
distressed appeal of the Swedes, by advising them to make the cession.

"That, nevertheless, since 1809, the Russian army destined to act in concert with Poniatowski
in Austrian Gallicia had come forward too late, was too weak, and had acted perfidiously; that
since that time, Alexander, by his ukase of the 31st of December, 1810, had abandoned the continental
system, and by his prohibitions declared an actual war against French commerce; that he was
quite aware that the interest and national spirit of the Russians might have compelled him
to that, but that he had then communicated to their emperor that he was aware of his position,
and would enter into every kind of arrangement which his repose required; in spite of which,
Alexander, instead of modifying his ukase, had assembled 80,000 men, under pretence of supporting
his custom-house officers; that he had suffered himself to be seduced by England; that, lastly,
he even now refused to recognize the thirty-second military division, and demanded the evacuation
of Prussia by the French; which was equivalent to a declaration of war."

Through all these complaints, some persons thought they perceived that the pride of Napoleon
was wounded by the independent attitude which Russia was daily resuming. The dispossession
of the Russian Princess of Oldenburg of her duchy led to other conjectures; it was said that
hints had been given both at Tilsit and Erfurt about a divorce, after which a closer alliance
might be contracted with Russia; that these hints had not been encouraged, and that Napoleon
retained a resentful remembrance of it. This fact is affirmed by some, and denied by others.

