It was now very plain to the Syndicate director that his words could have no effect upon the
commander of the Lenox, and he therefore signalled Crab H to tow the United States vessel into
port.  When the commander of the Lenox saw that his vessel was beginning to move backward,
he gave instant orders to put on all steam.  But this was found to be useless, for when the
dynamite gun was about to be fired, the engines had been ordered stopped, and the moment that
the propeller-blades ceased moving the nippers of the crab had been released from their hold
upon the stern-post, and the propeller-blades of the Lenox were gently but firmly seized in
a grasp which included the rudder.  It was therefore impossible for the engines of the vessel
to revolve the propeller, and, unresistingly, the Lenox was towed, stern foremost, to the Breakwater.

The news of this incident created the wildest indignation in the United States navy, and throughout
the country the condemnation of what was considered the insulting action of the Syndicate was
general. In foreign countries the affair was the subject of a good deal of comment, but it
was also the occasion of much serious consideration, for it proved that one of the Syndicate's
submerged vessels could, without firing a gun, and without fear of injury to itself, capture
a man-of-war and tow it whither it pleased.

The authorities at Washington took instant action on the affair, and as it was quite evident
that the contract between the United States and the Syndicate had been violated by the Lenox,
the commander of that vessel was reprimanded by the Secretary of the Navy, and enjoined that
there should be no repetitions of his offence.  But as the commander of the Lenox knew that
the Secretary of the Navy was as angry as he was at what had happened, he did not feel his
reprimand to be in any way a disgrace.

It may be stated that the Stockbridge, which had steamed for the open sea as soon as the business
which had detained her was completed, did not go outside the Cape.  When her officers perceived
with their glasses that the Lenox was returning to port stern foremost, they opined what had
happened, and desiring that their ship should do all her sailing in the natural way, the Stockbridge
was put about and steamed, bow foremost, to her anchorage behind the Breakwater, the commander
thanking his stars that for once the Lenox had got ahead of him.

The members of the Syndicate were very anxious to remove the unfavorable impression regarding
what was called in many quarters their attack upon a United States vessel, and a circular to
the public was issued, in which they expressed their deep regret at being obliged to interfere
with so many brave officers and men in a moment of patriotic enthusiasm, and explaining how
absolutely necessary it was that the Lenox should be removed from a position where a conflict
with English line-of-battle ships would be probable.  There were many thinking persons who
saw the weight of the Syndicate's statements, but the effect of the circular upon the popular
mind was not great.

The Syndicate was now hard at work making preparations for the grand stroke which had been
determined upon.  In the whole country there was scarcely a man whose ability could be made
available in their work, who was not engaged in their service; and everywhere, in foundries,
workshops, and shipyards, the construction of their engines of war was being carried on by
day and by night.  No contracts were made for the delivery of work at certain times; everything
was done under the direct supervision of the Syndicate and its subordinates, and the work went
on with a definiteness and rapidity hitherto unknown in naval construction.

In the midst of the Syndicate's labours there arrived off the coast of Canada the first result
of Great Britain's preparations for her war with the American Syndicate, in the shape of the
Adamant, the largest and finest ironclad which had ever crossed the Atlantic, and which had
been sent to raise the blockade of the Canadian port by the Syndicate's vessels.

This great ship had been especially fitted out to engage in combat with repellers and crabs.
As far as was possible the peculiar construction of the Syndicate's vessels had been carefully
studied, and English specialists in the line of naval construction and ordnance had given most
earnest consideration to methods of attack and defence most likely to succeed with these novel
ships of war.  The Adamant was the only vessel which it had been possible to send out in so
short a time, and her cruise was somewhat of an experiment.  If she should be successful in
raising the blockade of the Canadian port, the British Admiralty would have but little difficulty
in dealing with the American Syndicate.

The most important object was to provide a defence against the screw-extracting and rudder-breaking
crabs; and to this end the Adamant had been fitted with what was termed a "stern-jacket." 
This was a great cage of heavy steel bars, which was attached to the stern of the vessel in
such a way that it could be raised high above the water, so as to offer no impediment while
under way, and which, in time of action, could be let down so as to surround and protect the
rudder and screw-propellers, of which the Adamant had two.

This was considered an adequate defence against the nippers of a Syndicate crab; but as a means
of offence against these almost submerged vessels a novel contrivance had been adopted.  From
a great boom projecting over the stern, a large ship's cannon was suspended perpendicularly,
muzzle downward.  This gun could be swung around to the deck, hoisted into a horizontal position,
loaded with a heavy charge, a wooden plug keeping the load in position when the gun hung perpendicularly.

If the crab should come under the stern, this cannon could be fired directly downward upon
her back, and it was not believed that any vessel of the kind could stand many such tremendous
shocks.  It was not known exactly how ventilation was supplied to the submarine vessels of
the Syndicate, nor how the occupants were enabled to make the necessary observations during
action.  When under way the crabs sailed somewhat elevated above the water, but when engaged
with an enemy only a small portion of their covering armour could be seen.

It was surmised that under and between some of the scales of this armour there was some arrangement
of thick glasses, through which the necessary observation could be made; and it was believed
that, even if the heavy perpendicular shots did not crush in the roof of a crab, these glasses
would be shattered by concussion.  Although this might appear a matter of slight importance,
it was thought among naval officers it would necessitate the withdrawal of a crab from action.

In consequence of the idea that the crabs were vulnerable between their overlapping plates,
some of the Adamant's boats were fitted out with Gatling and machine guns, by which a shower
of balls might be sent under the scales, through the glasses, and into the body of the crab.
In addition to their guns, these boats would be supplied with other means of attack upon the crab.

Of course it would be impossible to destroy these submerged enemies by means of dynamite or
torpedoes; for with two vessels in close proximity, the explosion of a torpedo would be as
dangerous to the hull of one as to the other.  The British Admiralty would not allow even the
Adamant to explode torpedoes or dynamite under her own stern.

With regard to a repeller, or spring-armoured vessel, the Adamant would rely upon her exceptionally
powerful armament, and upon her great weight and speed.  She was fitted with twin screws and
engines of the highest power, and it was believed that she would be able to overhaul, ram,
and crush the largest vessel armoured or unarmoured which the Syndicate would be able to bring
against her.  Some of her guns were of immense calibre, firing shot weighing nearly two thousand
pounds, and requiring half a ton of powder for each charge.  Besides these she carried an unusually
large number of large cannon and two dynamite guns.  She was so heavily plated and armoured
as to be proof against any known artillery in the world.

She was a floating fortress, with men enough to make up the population of a town, and with
stores, ammunition, and coal sufficient to last for a long term of active service.  Such was
the mighty English battleship which had come forward to raise the siege of the Canadian port.

The officers of the Syndicate were well aware of the character of the Adamant, her armament
and her defences, and had been informed by cable of her time of sailing and probable destination.
They sent out Repeller No. 7, with Crabs J and K, to meet her off the Banks of Newfoundland.

This repeller was the largest and strongest vessel that the Syndicate had ready for service.
In addition to the spring armour with which these vessels were supplied, this one was furnished
with a second coat of armour outside the first, the elastic steel ribs of which ran longitudinally
and at right angles to those of the inner set.  Both coats were furnished with a great number
of improved air-buffers, and the arrangement of spring armour extended five or six feet beyond
the massive steel plates with which the vessel was originally armoured. She carried one motor-cannon
of large size.

One of the crabs was of the ordinary pattern, but Crab K was furnished with a spring armour
above the heavy plates of her roof.  This had been placed upon her after the news had been
received by the Syndicate that the Adamant would carry a perpendicular cannon over her stern,
but there had not been time enough to fit out another crab in the same way.

When the director in charge of Repeller No. 7 first caught sight of the Adamant, and scanned
through his glass the vast proportions of the mighty ship which was rapidly steaming towards
the coast, he felt that a responsibility rested upon him heavier than any which had yet been
borne by an officer of the Syndicate; but he did not hesitate in the duty which he had been
sent to perform, and immediately ordered the two crabs to advance to meet the Adamant, and
to proceed to action according to the instructions which they had previously received.  His
own ship was kept, in pursuance of orders, several miles distant from the British ship.

As soon as the repeller had been sighted from the Adamant, a strict lookout had been kept for
the approach of crabs; and when the small exposed portions of the backs of two of these were
perceived glistening in the sunlight, the speed of the great ship slackened.  The ability of
the Syndicate's submerged vessels to move suddenly and quickly in any direction had been clearly
demonstrated, and although a great ironclad with a ram could run down and sink a crab without
feeling the concussion, it was known that it would be perfectly easy for the smaller craft
to keep out of the way of its bulky antagonist. Therefore the Adamant did not try to ram the
crabs, nor to get away from them.  Her commander intended, if possible, to run down one or
both of them; but he did not propose to do this in the usual way.

As the crabs approached, the stern-jacket of the Adamant was let down, and the engines were
slowed.  This stern-jacket, when protecting the rudder and propellers, looked very much like
the cowcatcher of a locomotive, and was capable of being put to a somewhat similar use.  It
was the intention of the captain of the Adamant, should the crabs attempt to attach themselves
to his stern, to suddenly put on all steam, reverse his engines, and back upon them, the stern-jacket
answering as a ram.

The commander of the Adamant had no doubt that in this way he could run into a crab, roll it
over in the water, and when it was lying bottom upward, like a floating cask, he could move
his ship to a distance, and make a target of it.  So desirous was this brave and somewhat facetious
captain to try his new plan upon a crab, that he forebore to fire upon the two vessels of that
class which were approaching him.  Some of his guns were so mounted that their muzzles could
be greatly depressed, and aimed at an object in the water not far from the ship.  But these
were not discharged, and, indeed, the crabs, which were new ones of unusual swiftness, were
alongside the Adamant in an incredibly short time, and out of the range of these guns.

Crab J was on the starboard side of the Adamant, Crab K was on the port side, and, simultaneously,
the two laid hold of her.  But they were not directly astern of the great vessel.  Each had
its nippers fastened to one side of the stern-jacket, near the hinge-like bolts which held
it to the vessel, and on which it was raised and lowered.

In a moment the Adamant began to steam backward; but the only effect of this motion, which
soon became rapid, was to swing the crabs around against her sides, and carry them with her.
As the vessels were thus moving the great pincers of the crabs were twisted with tremendous
force, the stern-jacket on one side was broken from its bolt, and on the other the bolt itself
was drawn out of the side of the vessel.  The nippers then opened, and the stern-jacket fell
from their grasp into the sea, snapping in its fall the chain by which it had been raised and
lowered.

This disaster occurred so quickly that few persons on board the Adamant knew what had happened.
But the captain, who had seen everything, gave instant orders to go ahead at full speed.  The
first thing to be done was to get at a distance from those crabs, keep well away from them,
and pound them to pieces with his heavy guns.

But the iron screw-propellers had scarcely begun to move in the opposite direction, before
the two crabs, each now lying at right angles with the length of the ship, but neither of them
directly astern of her, made a dash with open nippers, and Crab J fastened upon one propeller,
while Crab K laid hold of the other.  There was a din and crash of breaking metal, two shocks
which were felt throughout the vessel, and the shattered and crushed blades of the propellers
of the great battleship were powerless to move her.

The captain of the Adamant, pallid with fury, stood upon the poop.  In a moment the crabs would
be at his rudder!  The great gun, double-shotted and ready to fire, was hanging from its boom
over the stern.  Crab K, whose roof had the additional protection of spring armour, now moved
round so as to be directly astern of the Adamant. Before she could reach the rudder, her forward
part came under the suspended cannon, and two massive steel shot were driven down upon her
with a force sufficient to send them through masses of solid rock; but from the surface of
elastic steel springs and air-buffers they bounced upward, one of them almost falling on the
deck of the Adamant.

The gunners of this piece had been well trained.  In a moment the boom was swung around, the
cannon reloaded, and when Crab K fixed her nippers on the rudder of the Adamant, two more shot
came down upon her. As in the first instance she dipped and rolled, but the ribs of her uninjured
armour had scarcely sprung back into their places, before her nippers turned, and the rudder
of the Adamant was broken in two, and the upper portion dragged from its fastenings then a
quick backward jerk snapped its chains, and it was dropped into the sea.

A signal was now sent from Crab J to Repeller No.  7, to the effect that the Adamant had been
rendered incapable of steaming or sailing, and that she lay subject to order.

Subject to order or not, the Adamant did not lie passive.  Every gun on board which could be
sufficiently depressed, was made ready to fire upon the crabs should they attempt to get away.
Four large boats, furnished with machine guns, grapnels, and with various appliances which
might be brought into use on a steel-plated roof, were lowered from their davits, and immediately
began firing upon the exposed portions of the crabs.  Their machine guns were loaded with small
shells, and if these penetrated under the horizontal plates of a crab, and through the heavy
glass which was supposed to be in these interstices, the crew of the submerged craft would
be soon destroyed.

The quick eye of the captain of the Adamant had observed through his glass, while the crabs
were still at a considerable distance, their protruding air-pipes, and he had instructed the
officers in charge of the boats to make an especial attack upon these.  If the air-pipes of
a crab could be rendered useless, the crew must inevitably be smothered.

But the brave captain did not know that the condensed-air chambers of the crabs would supply
their inmates for an hour or more without recourse to the outer air, and that the air-pipes,
furnished with valves at the top, were always withdrawn under water during action with an enemy.
Nor did he know that the glass blocks under the armour-plates of the crabs, which were placed
in rubber frames to protect them from concussion above, were also guarded by steel netting
from injury by small balls.

Valiantly the boats beset the crabs, keeping up a constant fusillade, and endeavouring to throw
grapnels over them.  If one of these should catch under an overlapping armour-plate it could
be connected with the steam windlass of the Adamant, and a plate might be ripped off or a crab
overturned.

But the crabs proved to be much more lively fish than their enemies had supposed.  Turning,
as if on a pivot, and darting from side to side, they seemed to be playing with the boats,
and not trying to get away from them.  The spring armour of Crab K interfered somewhat with
its movements, and also put it in danger from attacks by grapnels, and it therefore left most
of the work to its consort.

Crab J, after darting swiftly in and out among her antagonists for some time, suddenly made
a turn, and dashing at one of the boats, ran under it, and raising it on its glistening back,
rolled it, bottom upward, into the sea.  In a moment the crew of the boat were swimming for
their lives.  They were quickly picked up by two of the other boats, which then deemed it prudent
to return to the ship.

But the second officer of the Adamant, who commanded the fourth boat, did not give up the fight.
Having noted the spring armour of Crab K, he believed that if he could get a grapnel between
its steel ribs he yet might capture the sea-monster.  For some minutes Crab K contented itself
with eluding him; but, tired of this, it turned, and raising its huge nippers almost out of
the water, it seized the bow of the boat, and gave it a gentle crunch, after which it released
its hold and retired.  The boat, leaking rapidly through two ragged holes, was rowed back to
the ship, which it reached half full of water.

The great battle-ship, totally bereft of the power of moving herself, was now rolling in the
trough of the sea, and a signal came from the repeller for Crab K to make fast to her and put
her head to the wind. This was quickly done, the crab attaching itself to the stern-post of
the Adamant by a pair of towing nippers.  These were projected from the stern of the crab,
and were so constructed that the larger vessel did not communicate all its motion to the smaller
one, and could not run down upon it.

