THE RELICS OF GENERAL CHASSE--A TALE OF ANTWERP

by Anthony Trollope

That Belgium is now one of the European kingdoms, living by its own laws, resting on its own
bottom, with a king and court, palaces and parliament of its own, is known to all the world.
And a very nice little kingdom it is; full of old towns, fine Flemish pictures, and interesting
Gothic churches.  But in the memory of very many of us who do not think ourselves old men,
Belgium, as it is now called--in those days it used to be Flanders and Brabant--was a part
of Holland; and it obtained its own independence by a revolution.  In that revolution the most
important military step was the siege of Antwerp, which was defended on the part of the Dutch
by General Chasse, with the utmost gallantry, but nevertheless ineffectually.

After the siege Antwerp became quite a show place; and among the visitors who flocked there
to talk of the gallant general, and to see what remained of the great effort which he had made
to defend the place, were two Englishmen.  One was the hero of this little history; and the
other was a young man of considerably less weight in the world.  The less I say of the latter
the better; but it is necessary that I should give some description of the former.

The Rev. Augustus Horne was, at the time of my narrative, a beneficed clergyman of the Church
of England.  The profession which he had graced sat easily on him.  Its external marks and
signs were as pleasing to his friends as were its internal comforts to himself. He was a man
of much quiet mirth, full of polished wit, and on some rare occasions he could descend to the
more noisy hilarity of a joke.  Loved by his friends he loved all the world.  He had known
no care and seen no sorrow.  Always intended for holy orders he had entered them without a
scruple, and remained within their pale without a regret.  At twenty-four he had been a deacon,
at twenty- seven a priest, at thirty a rector, and at thirty-five a prebendary; and as his
rectory was rich and his prebendal stall well paid, the Rev. Augustus Horne was called by all,
and called himself, a happy man.  His stature was about six feet two, and his corpulence exceeded
even those bounds which symmetry would have preferred as being most perfectly compatible even
with such a height.  But nevertheless Mr. Horne was a well-made man; his hands and feet were
small; his face was handsome, frank, and full of expression; his bright eyes twinkled with
humour; his finely-cut mouth disclosed two marvellous rows of well-preserved ivory; and his
slightly aquiline nose was just such a projection as one would wish to see on the face of a
well-fed good-natured dignitary of the Church of England.  When I add to all this that the
reverend gentleman was as generous as he was rich--and the kind mother in whose arms he had
been nurtured had taken care that he should never want--I need hardly say that I was blessed
with a very pleasant travelling companion.

I must mention one more interesting particular. Mr. Horne was rather inclined to dandyism,
in an innocent way.  His clerical starched neckcloth was always of the whitest, his cambric
handkerchief of the finest, his bands adorned with the broadest border; his sable suit never
degenerated to a rusty brown; it not only gave on all occasions glossy evidence of freshness,
but also of the talent which the artisan had displayed in turning out a well-dressed clergyman
of the Church of England.  His hair was ever brushed with scrupulous attention, and showed
in its regular waves the guardian care of each separate bristle.  And all this was done with
that ease and grace which should be the characteristics of a dignitary of the established English
Church.

