“We protest by these presents, before God, our only Creator, Preserver, Redeemer, and Saviour,
and who will one day be our Judge, as well as before all men and all creatures, that we, for
us and for our people, neither consent nor adhere in any manner whatsoever to the proposed
decree, in anything that is contrary to God, to His holy word, to our right conscience, to
the salvation of our souls.”

“What! we ratify this edict! We assert that when Almighty God calls a man to His knowledge,
this man nevertheless cannot receive the knowledge of God?” “There is no sure doctrine but
such as is conformable to the word of God.... The Lord forbids the teaching of any other doctrine....
The Holy Scriptures ought to be explained by other and clearer texts; ... this holy book is,
in all things necessary for the Christian, easy of understanding, and calculated to scatter
the darkness. We are resolved, with the grace of God, to maintain the pure and exclusive preaching
of His only word, such as it is contained in the biblical books of the Old and New Testaments,
without adding anything thereto that may be contrary to it. This Word is the only truth; it
is the sure rule of all doctrine and of all life, and can never fail or deceive us. He who
builds on this foundation shall stand against all the powers of hell, while all the human vanities
that are set up against it shall fall before the face of God.”

“For this reason we reject the yoke that is imposed on us.” “At the same time we are in expectation
that his imperial majesty will behave toward us like a Christian prince who loves God above
all things; and we declare ourselves ready to pay unto him, as well as unto you, gracious lords,
all the affection and obedience that are our just and legitimate duty.”(296)

A deep impression was made upon the Diet. The majority were filled with amazement and alarm
at the boldness of the protesters. The future appeared to them stormy and uncertain. Dissension,
strife, and bloodshed seemed inevitable. But the Reformers, assured of the justice of their
cause, and relying upon the arm of Omnipotence, were “full of courage and firmness.”

“The principles contained in this celebrated Protest ... constitute the very essence of Protestantism.
Now this Protest opposes two abuses of man in matters of faith: the first is the intrusion
of the civil magistrate, and the second the arbitrary authority of the church. Instead of these
abuses, Protestantism sets the power of conscience above the magistrate, and the authority
of the word of God above the visible church. In the first place, it rejects the civil power
in divine things, and says with the prophets and apostles, ‘We must obey God rather than man.’
In presence of the crown of Charles the Fifth, it uplifts the crown of Jesus Christ. But it
goes farther: it lays down the principle that all human teaching should be subordinate to the
oracles of God.”(297) The protesters had moreover affirmed their right to utter freely their
convictions of truth. They would not only believe and obey, but teach what the word of God
presents, and they denied the right of priest or magistrate to interfere. The Protest of Spires
was a solemn witness against religious intolerance, and an assertion of the right of all men
to worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences.

The declaration had been made. It was written in the memory of thousands, and registered in
the books of heaven, where no effort of man could erase it. All evangelical Germany adopted
the Protest as the expression of its faith. Everywhere men beheld in this declaration the promise
of a new and better era. Said one of the princes to the Protestants of Spires, “May the Almighty,
who has given you grace to confess energetically, freely, and fearlessly, preserve you in that
Christian firmness until the day of eternity.”(298)

Had the Reformation, after attaining a degree of success, consented to temporize to secure
favor with the world, it would have been untrue to God and to itself, and would thus have insured
its own destruction. The experience of these noble Reformers contains a lesson for all succeeding
ages. Satan’s manner of working against God and His word has not changed; he is still as much
opposed to the Scriptures being made the guide of life as in the sixteenth century. In our
time there is a wide departure from their doctrines and precepts, and there is need of a return
to the great Protestant principle,—the Bible, and the Bible only, as the rule of faith and
duty. Satan is still working through every means which he can control to destroy religious
liberty. The antichristian power which the protesters of Spires rejected, is now with renewed
vigor seeking to re-establish its lost supremacy. The same unswerving adherence to the word
of God manifested at that crisis of the Reformation, is the only hope of reform to-day.

There appeared tokens of danger to the Protestants; there were tokens, also, that the divine
hand was stretched out to protect the faithful. It was about this time that “Melanchthon hastily
conducted through the streets of Spires toward the Rhine his friend Simon Grynæus, pressing
him to cross the river. The latter was astonished at such precipitation. ‘An old man of grave
and solemn air, but who is unknown to me,’ said Melanchthon, ‘appeared before me and said,
In a minute officers of justice will be sent by Ferdinand to arrest Grynæus.’ ”

During the day, Grynæus had been scandalized at a sermon by Faber, a leading papal doctor;
and at the close, remonstrated with him for defending “certain detestable errors.” “Faber dissembled
his anger, but immediately after repaired to the king, from whom he had obtained an order against
the importunate professor of Heidelberg. Melanchthon doubted not that God had saved his friend
by sending one of His holy angels to forewarn him.

“Motionless on the banks of the Rhine, he waited until the waters of that stream had rescued
Grynæus from his persecutors. ‘At last,’ cried Melanchthon, as he saw him on the opposite side,
‘at last he is torn from the cruel jaws of those who thirst for innocent blood.’ When he returned
to his house, Melanchthon was informed that officers in search of Grynæus had ransacked it
from top to bottom.”(299)

The Reformation was to be brought into greater prominence before the mighty ones of the earth.
The evangelical princes had been denied a hearing by King Ferdinand; but they were to be granted
an opportunity to present their cause in the presence of the emperor and the assembled dignitaries
of church and state. To quiet the dissensions which disturbed the empire, Charles V., in the
year following the Protest of Spires, convoked a Diet at Augsburg, over which he announced
his intention to preside in person. Thither the Protestant leaders were summoned.

Great dangers threatened the Reformation; but its advocates still trusted their cause with
God, and pledged themselves to be firm to the gospel. The elector of Saxony was urged by his
councilors not to appear at the Diet. The emperor, they said, required the attendance of the
princes in order to draw them into a snare. “Is it not risking everything to go and shut oneself
up within the walls of a city with a powerful enemy?” But others nobly declared, “Let the princes
only comport themselves with courage, and God’s cause is saved.” “God is faithful; He will
not abandon us,”(300) said Luther. The elector set out, with his retinue, for Augsburg. All
were acquainted with the dangers that menaced him, and many went forward with gloomy countenance
and troubled heart. But Luther, who accompanied them as far as Coburg, revived their sinking
faith by singing the hymn, written on that journey, “A strong tower is our God.” Many an anxious
foreboding was banished, many a heavy heart lightened, at the sound of the inspiring strains.

The reformed princes had determined upon having a statement of their views in systematic form,
with the evidence from the Scriptures, to present before the Diet; and the task of its preparation
was committed to Luther, Melanchthon, and their associates. This Confession was accepted by
the Protestants as an exposition of their faith, and they assembled to affix their names to
the important document. It was a solemn and trying time. The Reformers were solicitous that
their cause should not be confounded with political questions; they felt that the Reformation
should exercise no other influence than that which proceeds from the word of God. As the Christian
princes advanced to sign the Confession, Melanchthon interposed, saying, “It is for the theologians
and ministers to propose these things; let us reserve for other matters the authority of the
mighty ones of the earth.” “God forbid,” replied John of Saxony, “that you should exclude me.
I am resolved to do what is right, without troubling myself about my crown. I desire to confess
the Lord. My electoral hat and my ermine are not so precious to me as the cross of Jesus Christ.”
Having thus spoken, he wrote down his name. Said another of the princes as he took the pen,
“If the honor of my Lord Jesus Christ requires it, I am ready ... to leave my goods and life
behind.” “I would rather renounce my subjects and my states, rather quit the country of my
fathers staff in hand,” he continued, “than receive any other doctrine than that which is contained
in this Confession.”(301) Such was the faith and daring of those men of God.

The appointed time came to appear before the emperor. Charles V., seated upon his throne, surrounded
by the electors and the princes, gave audience to the Protestant Reformers. The confession
of their faith was read. In that august assembly the truths of the gospel were clearly set
forth, and the errors of the papal church were pointed out. Well has that day been pronounced
“the greatest day of the Reformation, and one of the most glorious in the history of Christianity
and of mankind.”(302)

But a few years had passed since the monk of Wittenberg stood alone at Worms before the national
council. Now in his stead were the noblest and most powerful princes of the empire. Luther
had been forbidden to appear at Augsburg, but he had been present by his words and prayers.
“I am overjoyed,” he wrote, “that I have lived until this hour, in which Christ has been publicly
exalted by such illustrious confessors, and in so glorious an assembly.”(303) Thus was fulfilled
what the Scripture says, “I will speak of Thy testimonies before kings.”(304)

In the days of Paul, the gospel for which he was imprisoned was thus brought before the princes
and nobles of the imperial city. So on this occasion, that which the emperor had forbidden
to be preached from the pulpit, was proclaimed in the palace; what many had regarded as unfit
even for servants to listen to, was heard with wonder by the masters and lords of the empire.
Kings and great men were the auditory, crowned princes were the preachers, and the sermon was
the royal truth of God. “Since the apostolic age,” says a writer, “there has never been a greater
work or a more magnificent confession.”(305)

“All that the Lutherans have said is true; we cannot deny it,” declared a papist bishop. “Can
you refute by sound reasons the Confession made by the elector and his allies?” asked another,
of Doctor Eck. “With the writings of the apostles and prophets—no!” was the reply; “but with
those of the Fathers and of the councils—yes!” “I understand,” responded the questioner. “The
Lutherans, according to you, are in Scripture, and we are outside.”(306)

Some of the princes of Germany were won to the reformed faith. The emperor himself declared
that the Protestant articles were but the truth. The Confession was translated into many languages,
and circulated through all Europe, and it has been accepted by millions in succeeding generations
as the expression of their faith.

God’s faithful servants were not toiling alone. While “principalities and powers and wicked
spirits in high places” were leagued against them, the Lord did not forsake His people. Could
their eyes have been opened, they would have seen as marked evidence of divine presence and
aid as was granted to a prophet of old. When Elisha’s servant pointed his master to the hostile
army surrounding them, and cutting off all opportunity for escape, the prophet prayed, “Lord,
I pray Thee, open his eyes, that he may see.”(307) And, lo, the mountain was filled with chariots
and horses of fire, the army of heaven stationed to protect the man of God. Thus did angels
guard the workers in the cause of the Reformation.

One of the principles most firmly maintained by Luther was that there should be no resort to
secular power in support of the Reformation, and no appeal to arms for its defense. He rejoiced
that the gospel was confessed by princes of the empire; but when they proposed to unite in
a defensive league, he declared that “the doctrine of the gospel should be defended by God
alone.... The less man meddled in the work, the more striking would be God’s intervention in
its behalf. All the politic precautions suggested were, in his view, attributable to unworthy
fear and sinful mistrust.”(308)

When powerful foes were uniting to overthrow the reformed faith, and thousands of swords seemed
about to be unsheathed against it, Luther wrote: “Satan is putting forth his fury; ungodly
pontiffs are conspiring; and we are threatened with war. Exhort the people to contend valiantly
before the throne of the Lord, by faith and prayer, so that our enemies, vanquished by the
Spirit of God, may be constrained to peace. Our chief want, our chief labor, is prayer; let
the people know that they are now exposed to the edge of the sword and to the rage of Satan,
and let them pray.”(309)

Again, at a later date, referring to the league contemplated by the reformed princes, Luther
declared that the only weapon employed in this warfare should be “the sword of the Spirit.”
He wrote to the elector of Saxony: “We cannot on our conscience approve of the proposed alliance.
We would rather die ten times than see our gospel cause one drop of blood to be shed. Our part
is to be like lambs of the slaughter. The cross of Christ must be borne. Let your highness
be without fear. We shall do more by our prayers than all our enemies by their boastings. Only
let not your hands be stained with the blood of your brethren. If the emperor requires us to
be given up to his tribunals, we are ready to appear. You cannot defend our faith: each one
should believe at his own risk and peril.”(310)

From the secret place of prayer came the power that shook the world in the Great Reformation.
There with holy calmness, the servants of the Lord set their feet upon the rock of His promises.
During the struggle at Augsburg, Luther “did not pass a day without devoting three hours at
least to prayer, and they were hours selected from those the most favorable to study.” In the
privacy of his chamber he was heard to pour out his soul before God in words “full of adoration,
fear, and hope, as when one speaks to a friend.” “I know that Thou art our Father and our God,”
he said, “and that Thou wilt scatter the persecutors of Thy children; for Thou art Thyself
endangered with us. All this matter is Thine, and it is only by Thy constraint that we have
put our hands to it. Defend us, then, O Father!”(311)

To Melanchthon, who was crushed under the burden of anxiety and fear, he wrote: “Grace and
peace in Christ—in Christ, I say, and not in the world. Amen. I hate with exceeding hatred
those extreme cares which consume you. If the cause is unjust, abandon it; if the cause is
just, why should we belie the promises of Him who commands us to sleep without fear?... Christ
will not be wanting to the work of justice and of truth. He lives, He reigns; what fear, then,
can we have?”(312)

God did listen to the cries of His servants. He gave to princes and ministers grace and courage
to maintain the truth against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Saith the Lord, “Behold,
I lay in Zion a chief corner-stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on Him shall not
be confounded.”(313) The Protestant Reformers had built on Christ, and the gates of hell could
not prevail against them.

12. THE FRENCH REFORMATION.

The Protest of Spires and the Confession at Augsburg, which marked the triumph of the Reformation
in Germany, were followed by years of conflict and darkness. Weakened by divisions among its
supporters, and assailed by powerful foes, Protestantism seemed destined to be utterly destroyed.
Thousands sealed their testimony with their blood. Civil war broke out; the Protestant cause
was betrayed by one of its leading adherents; the noblest of the reformed princes fell into
the hands of the emperor, and were dragged as captives from town to town. But in the moment
of his apparent triumph, the emperor was smitten with defeat. He saw the prey wrested from
his grasp, and he was forced at last to grant toleration to the doctrines which it had been
the ambition of his life to destroy. He had staked his kingdom, his treasures, and life itself,
upon the crushing out of the heresy. Now he saw his armies wasted by battle, his treasuries
drained, his many kingdoms threatened by revolt, while everywhere the faith which he had vainly
endeavored to suppress, was extending. Charles V. had been battling against omnipotent power.
God had said, “Let there be light,” but the emperor had sought to keep the darkness unbroken.
His purposes had failed; and in premature old age, worn out with the long struggle, he abdicated
the throne, and buried himself in a cloister.

In Switzerland, as in Germany, there came dark days for the Reformation. While many cantons
accepted the reformed faith, others clung with blind persistence to the creed of Rome. Their
persecution of those who desired to receive the truth, finally gave rise to civil war. Zwingle
and many who had united with him in reform, fell on the bloody field of Cappel. Œcolampadius,
overcome by these terrible disasters, soon after died. Rome was triumphant, and in many places
seemed about to recover all that she had lost. But He whose counsels are from everlasting had
not forsaken His cause or His people. His hand would bring deliverance for them. In other lands
He had raised up laborers to carry forward the reform.

In France, before the name of Luther had been heard as a Reformer, the day had already begun
to break. One of the first to catch the light was the aged Lefevre, a man of extensive learning,
a professor in the University of Paris, and a sincere and zealous papist. In his researches
into ancient literature his attention was directed to the Bible, and he introduced its study
among his students.

Lefevre was an enthusiastic adorer of the saints, and he had undertaken to prepare a history
of the saints and martyrs, as given in the legends of the church. This was a work which involved
great labor; but he had already made considerable progress in it, when, thinking that he might
obtain useful assistance from the Bible, he began its study with this object. Here indeed he
found saints brought to view, but not such as figured in the Roman calendar. A flood of divine
light broke in upon his mind. In amazement and disgust he turned away from his self-appointed
task, and devoted himself to the word of God. The precious truths which he there discovered,
he soon began to teach.

In 1512, before either Luther or Zwingle had begun the work of reform, Lefevre wrote: “It is
God who gives us, by faith, that righteousness which by grace alone justifies to eternal life.”(314)
Dwelling upon the mysteries of redemption, he exclaimed, “Oh, the unspeakable greatness of
that exchange,—the Sinless One is condemned, and he who is guilty goes free; the Blessing bears
the curse, and the cursed is brought into blessing; the Life dies, and the dead live; the Glory
is whelmed in darkness, and he who knew nothing but confusion of face is clothed with glory.”(315)

And while teaching that the glory of salvation belongs solely to God, he also declared that
the duty of obedience belongs to man. “If thou art a member of Christ’s church,” he said, “thou
art a member of His body; if thou art of His body, then thou art full of the divine nature....
Oh, if men could but enter into the understanding of this privilege, how purely, chastely,
and holily would they live, and how contemptible, when compared with the glory within them,—that
glory which the eye of flesh cannot see,—would they deem all the glory of this world.”(316)

There were some among Lefevre’s students who listened eagerly to his words, and who, long after
the teacher’s voice should be silenced, were to continue to declare the truth. Such was William
Farel. The son of pious parents, and educated to accept with implicit faith the teachings of
the church, he might, with the apostle Paul, have declared concerning himself, “After the most
straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.”(317) A devoted Romanist, he burned with
zeal to destroy all who should dare to oppose the church. “I would gnash my teeth like a furious
wolf,” he afterward said, referring to this period of his life, “when I heard any one speaking
against the pope.”(318) He had been untiring in his adoration of the saints, in company with
Lefevre making the round of the churches of Paris, worshiping at the altars, and adorning with
gifts the holy shrines. But these observances could not bring peace of soul. Conviction of
sin fastened upon him, which all the acts of penance that he practised, failed to banish. As
to a voice from heaven, he listened to the Reformer’s words: “Salvation is of grace.” “The
Innocent One is condemned, and the criminal is acquitted.” “It is the cross of Christ alone
that openeth the gates of heaven, and shutteth the gates of hell.”(319)

Farel joyfully accepted the truth. By a conversion like that of Paul, he turned from the bondage
of tradition to the liberty of the sons of God. “Instead of the murderous heart of a ravening
wolf, he came back,” he says, “quietly, like a meek and harmless lamb, having his heart entirely
withdrawn from the pope, and given to Jesus Christ.”(320)

While Lefevre continued to spread the light among his students, Farel, as zealous in the cause
of Christ as he had been in that of the pope, went forth to declare the truth in public. A
dignitary of the church, the bishop of Meaux, soon after united with them. Other teachers who
ranked high for their ability and learning, joined in proclaiming the gospel, and it won adherents
among all classes, from the homes of artisans and peasants to the palace of the king. The sister
of Francis I., then the reigning monarch, accepted the reformed faith. The king himself, and
the queen mother, appeared for a time to regard it with favor, and with high hopes the Reformers
looked forward to the time when France should be won to the gospel.

But their hopes were not to be realized. Trial and persecution awaited the disciples of Christ.
This, however, was mercifully veiled from their eyes. A time of peace intervened, that they
might gain strength to meet the tempest; and the Reformation made rapid progress. The bishop
of Meaux labored zealously in his own diocese to instruct both the clergy and the people. Ignorant
and immoral priests were removed, and, so far as possible, replaced by men of learning and
piety. The bishop greatly desired that his people might have access to the word of God for
themselves, and this was soon accomplished. Lefevre undertook the translation of the New Testament;
and at the very time when Luther’s German Bible was issuing from the press in Wittenberg, the
French New Testament was published at Meaux. The bishop spared no labor or expense to circulate
it in his parishes, and soon the peasants of Meaux were in possession of the Holy Scriptures.

As travelers perishing from thirst welcome with joy a living water-spring, so did these souls
receive the message of heaven. The laborers in the field, the artisans in the workshop, cheered
their daily toil by talking of the precious truths of the Bible. At evening, instead of resorting
to the wine shops, they assembled in one another’s homes to read God’s word and join in prayer
and praise. A great change was soon manifest in these communities. Though belonging to the
humblest class, an unlearned and hard-working peasantry, the reforming, uplifting power of
divine grace was seen in their lives. Humble, loving, and holy, they stood as witnesses to
what the gospel will accomplish for those who receive it in sincerity.

The light kindled at Meaux shed its beams afar. Every day the number of converts was increasing.
The rage of the hierarchy was for a time held in check by the king, who despised the narrow
bigotry of the monks; but the papal leaders finally prevailed. Now the stake was set up. The
bishop of Meaux, forced to choose between the fire and recantation, accepted the easier path;
but notwithstanding the leader’s fall, his flock remained steadfast. Many witnessed for the
truth amid the flames. By their courage and fidelity at the stake, these humble Christians
spoke to thousands who in days of peace had never heard their testimony.

It was not alone the humble and the poor, that amid suffering and scorn dared to bear witness
for Christ. In the lordly halls of the castle and the palace, there were kingly souls by whom
truth was valued above wealth or rank or even life. Kingly armor concealed a loftier and more
steadfast spirit than did the bishop’s robe and mitre. Louis de Berquin was of noble birth.
A brave and courtly knight, he was devoted to study, polished in manners, and of blameless
morals. “He was,” says a writer, “a great follower of the papistical constitutions, and a great
hearer of masses and sermons; ... and he crowned all his other virtues by holding Lutheranism
in special abhorrence.” But, like so many others, providentially guided to the Bible, he was
amazed to find there, “not the doctrines of Rome, but the doctrines of Luther.”(321) Henceforth
he gave himself with entire devotion to the cause of the gospel.

“The most learned of the nobles of France,” his genius and eloquence, his indomitable courage
and heroic zeal, and his influence at court,—for he was a favorite with the king,—caused him
to be regarded by many as one destined to be the Reformer of his country. Said Beza, “Berquin
would have been a second Luther, had he found in Francis I. a second elector.” “He is worse
than Luther,”(322) cried the papists. More dreaded he was indeed by the Romanists of France.
They thrust him into prison as a heretic, but he was set at liberty by the king. For years
the struggle continued. Francis, wavering between Rome and the Reformation, alternately tolerated
and restrained the fierce zeal of the monks. Berquin was three times imprisoned by the papal
authorities, only to be released by the monarch, who, in admiration of his genius and his nobility
of character, refused to sacrifice him to the malice of the hierarchy.

Berquin was repeatedly warned of the danger that threatened him in France, and urged to follow
the steps of those who had found safety in voluntary exile. The timid and time-serving Erasmus,
who with all the splendor of his scholarship failed of that moral greatness which holds life
and honor subservient to truth, wrote to Berquin: “Ask to be sent as ambassador to some foreign
country; go and travel in Germany. You know Beda and such as he—he is a thousand-headed monster,
darting venom on every side. Your enemies are named legion. Were your cause better than that
of Jesus Christ, they will not let you go till they have miserably destroyed you. Do not trust
too much to the king’s protection. At all events, do not compromise me with the faculty of
theology.”(323)

But as dangers thickened, Berquin’s zeal only waxed the stronger. So far from adopting the
politic and self-serving counsel of Erasmus, he determined upon still bolder measures. He would
not only stand in defense of the truth, but he would attack error. The charge of heresy which
the Romanists were seeking to fasten upon him, he would rivet upon them. The most active and
bitter of his opponents were the learned doctors and monks of the theological department in
the great University of Paris, one of the highest ecclesiastical authorities both in the city
and the nation. From the writings of these doctors, Berquin drew twelve propositions which
he publicly declared to be “opposed to the Bible, and heretical;” and he appealed to the king
to act as judge in the controversy.

The monarch, not loath to bring into contrast the power and acuteness of the opposing champions,
and glad of an opportunity of humbling the pride of these haughty monks, bade the Romanists
defend their cause by the Bible. This weapon, they well knew, would avail them little; imprisonment,
torture, and the stake were arms which they better understood how to wield. Now the tables
were turned, and they saw themselves about to fall into the pit into which they had hoped to
plunge Berquin. In amazement they looked about them for some way of escape.

“Just at that time an image of the Virgin at the corner of one of the streets, was mutilated.”
There was great excitement in the city. Crowds of people flocked to the place, with expressions
of mourning and indignation. The king also was deeply moved. Here was an advantage which the
monks could turn to good account, and they were quick to improve it. “These are the fruits
of the doctrines of Berquin,” they cried. “All is about to be overthrown—religion, the laws,
the throne itself—by this Lutheran conspiracy.”(324)

Again Berquin was apprehended. The king withdrew from Paris, and the monks were thus left free
to work their will. The Reformer was tried, and condemned to die, and lest Francis should even
yet interpose to save him, the sentence was executed on the very day it was pronounced. At
noon Berquin was conducted to the place of death. An immense throng gathered to witness the
event, and there were many who saw with astonishment and misgiving that the victim had been
chosen from the best and bravest of the noble families of France. Amazement, indignation, scorn,
and bitter hatred darkened the faces of that surging crowd; but upon one face no shadow rested.
The martyr’s thoughts were far from that scene of tumult; he was conscious only of the presence
of his Lord.

The wretched tumbrel upon which he rode, the frowning faces of his persecutors, the dreadful
death to which he was going,—these he heeded not; He who liveth and was dead, and is alive
forevermore, and hath the keys of death and of hell, was beside him. Berquin’s countenance
was radiant with the light and peace of heaven. He had attired himself in goodly raiment, wearing
“a cloak of velvet, a doublet of satin and damask, and golden hose.”(325) He was about to testify
to his faith in presence of the King of kings and the witnessing universe, and no token of
mourning should belie his joy.

As the procession moved slowly through the crowded streets, the people marked with wonder the
unclouded peace, the joyous triumph, of his look and bearing. “He is,” they said, “like one
who sits in a temple, and meditates on holy things.”(326)

At the stake, Berquin endeavored to address a few words to the people; but the monks, fearing
the result, began to shout, and the soldiers to clash their arms, and their clamor drowned
the martyr’s voice. Thus in 1529, the highest literary and ecclesiastical authority of cultured
Paris “set the populace of 1793 the base example of stifling on the scaffold the sacred words
of the dying.”(327)

Berquin was strangled, and his body was consumed in the flames. The tidings of his death caused
sorrow to the friends of the Reformation throughout France. But his example was not lost. “We
too are ready,” said the witnesses for the truth, “to meet death cheerfully, setting our eyes
on the life that is to come.”(328)

During the persecution at Meaux, the teachers of the reformed faith were deprived of their
license to preach, and they departed to other fields. Lefevre after a time made his way to
Germany. Farel returned to his native town in eastern France, to spread the light in the home
of his childhood. Already tidings had been received of what was going on at Meaux, and the
truth, which he taught with fearless zeal, found listeners. Soon the authorities were roused
to silence him, and he was banished from the city. Though he could no longer labor publicly,
he traversed the plains and villages, teaching in private dwellings and in secluded meadows,
and finding shelter in the forests and among the rocky caverns which had been his haunts in
boyhood. God was preparing him for greater trials. “The crosses, persecutions, and machinations
of Satan, of which I was forewarned, have not been wanting,” he said; “they are even much severer
than I could have borne of myself; but God is my Father; He has provided and always will provide
me the strength which I require.”(329)

As in apostolic days, persecution had “fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel.”(330)
Driven from Paris and Meaux, “they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the
word.”(331) And thus the light found its way into many of the remote provinces of France.

God was still preparing workers to extend His cause. In one of the schools of Paris was a thoughtful,
quiet youth, already giving evidence of a powerful and penetrating mind, and no less marked
for the blamelessness of his life than for intellectual ardor and religious devotion. His genius
and application soon made him the pride of the college, and it was confidently anticipated
that John Calvin would become one of the ablest and most honored defenders of the church. But
a ray of divine light penetrated even within the walls of scholasticism and superstition by
which Calvin was inclosed. He heard of the new doctrines with a shudder, nothing doubting that
the heretics deserved the fire to which they were given. Yet all unwittingly he was brought
face to face with the heresy, and forced to test the power of Romish theology to combat the
Protestant teaching.

A cousin of Calvin’s, who had joined the Reformers, was in Paris. The two kinsmen often met,
and discussed together the matters that were disturbing Christendom. “There are but two religions
in the world,” said Olivetan, the Protestant. “The one class of religions are those which men
have invented, in all of which man saves himself by ceremonies and good works; the other is
that one religion which is revealed in the Bible, and which teaches man to look for salvation
solely from the free grace of God.”

“I will have none of your new doctrines,” exclaimed Calvin; “think you that I have lived in
error all my days?”(332)

But thoughts had been awakened in his mind which he could not banish at will. Alone in his
chamber he pondered upon his cousin’s words. Conviction of sin fastened upon him; he saw himself,
without an intercessor, in the presence of a holy and just Judge. The mediation of saints,
good works, the ceremonies of the church, all were powerless to atone for sin. He could see
before him nothing but the blackness of eternal despair. In vain the doctors of the church
endeavored to relieve his woe. Confession, penance, were resorted to in vain; they could not
reconcile the soul with God.

While still engaged in these fruitless struggles, Calvin, chancing one day to visit one of
the public squares, witnessed there the burning of a heretic. He was filled with wonder at
the expression of peace which rested upon the martyr’s countenance. Amid the tortures of that
dreadful death, and under the more terrible condemnation of the church, he manifested a faith
and courage which the young student painfully contrasted with his own despair and darkness,
while living in strictest obedience to the church. Upon the Bible, he knew, the heretics rested
their faith. He determined to study it, and discover, if he could, the secret of their joy.

In the Bible he found Christ. “O Father,” he cried, “His sacrifice has appeased Thy wrath;
His blood has washed away my impurities; His cross has borne my curse; His death has atoned
for me. We had devised for ourselves many useless follies, but Thou hast placed Thy word before
me like a torch, and Thou hast touched my heart, in order that I may hold in abomination all
other merits save those of Jesus.”(333)

Calvin had been educated for the priesthood. When only twelve years of age he had been appointed
to the chaplaincy of a small church, and his head had been shorn by the bishop in accordance
with the canon of the church. He did not receive consecration, nor did he fulfil the duties
of a priest, but he became a member of the clergy, holding the title of his office, and receiving
an allowance in consideration thereof.

Now, feeling that he could never become a priest, he turned for a time to the study of law,
but finally abandoned this purpose, and determined to devote his life to the gospel. But he
hesitated to become a public teacher. He was naturally timid, and was burdened with a sense
of the weighty responsibility of the position, and he desired still to devote himself to study.
The earnest entreaties of his friends, however, at last won his consent. “Wonderful it is,”
he said, “that one of so lowly an origin should be exalted to so great a dignity.”(334)

Quietly did Calvin enter upon his work, and his words were as the dew falling to refresh the
earth. He had left Paris, and was now in a provincial town under the protection of the princess
Margaret, who, loving the gospel, extended her protection to its disciples. Calvin was still
a youth, of gentle, unpretentious bearing. His work began with the people at their homes. Surrounded
by the members of the household, he read the Bible, and opened the truths of salvation. Those
who heard the message, carried the good news to others, and soon the teacher passed beyond
the city to the outlying towns and hamlets. To both the castle and the cabin he found entrance,
and he went forward, laying the foundation of churches that were to yield fearless witnesses
for the truth.

A few months, and he was again in Paris. There was unwonted agitation in the circle of learned
men and scholars. The study of the ancient languages had led men to the Bible, and many whose
hearts were untouched by its truths were eagerly discussing them, and even giving battle to
the champions of Romanism. Calvin, though an able combatant in the fields of theological controversy,
had a higher mission to accomplish than that of these noisy schoolmen. The minds of men were
stirred, and now was the time to open to them the truth. While the halls of the universities
were filled with the clamor of theological disputation, Calvin was making his way from house
to house, opening the Bible to the people, and speaking to them of Christ and Him crucified.

In God’s providence, Paris was to receive another invitation to accept the gospel. The call
of Lefevre and Farel had been rejected, but again the message was to be heard by all classes
in that great capital. The king, influenced by political considerations, had not yet fully
sided with Rome against the Reformation. Margaret still clung to the hope that Protestantism
was to triumph in France. She resolved that the reformed faith should be preached in Paris.
During the absence of the king, she ordered a Protestant minister to preach in the churches
of the city. This being forbidden by the papal dignitaries, the princess threw open the palace.
An apartment was fitted up as a chapel, and it was announced that every day, at a specified
hour, a sermon would be preached, and the people of every rank and station were invited to
attend. Crowds flocked to the service. Not only the chapel, but the ante-chambers and halls
were thronged. Thousands every day assembled,—nobles, statesmen, lawyers, merchants, and artisans.
The king, instead of forbidding the assemblies, ordered that two of the churches of Paris should
be opened. Never before had the city been so moved by the word of God. The spirit of life from
heaven seemed to be breathed upon the people. Temperance, purity, order, and industry were
taking the place of drunkenness, licentiousness, strife, and idleness.

But the hierarchy were not idle. The king still refused to interfere to stop the preaching,
and they turned to the populace. No means were spared to excite the fears, the prejudices,
and the fanaticism of the ignorant and superstitious multitudes. Yielding blindly to her false
teachers, Paris, like Jerusalem of old, knew not the time of her visitation, nor the things
which belonged unto her peace. For two years the word of God was preached in the capital; but
while there were many who accepted the gospel, the majority of the people rejected it. Francis
had made a show of toleration, merely to serve his own purposes, and the papists succeeded
in regaining the ascendency. Again the churches were closed, and the stake was set up.

Calvin was still in Paris, preparing himself by study, meditation, and prayer, for his future
labors, and continuing to spread the light. At last, however, suspicion fastened upon him.
The authorities determined to bring him to the flames. Regarding himself as secure in his seclusion,
he had no thought of danger, when friends came hurrying to his room with the news that officers
were on their way to arrest him. At the instant a loud knocking was heard at the outer entrance.
There was not a moment to be lost. Some of his friends detained the officers at the door, while
others assisted the Reformer to let himself down from a window, and he rapidly made his way
to the outskirts of the city. Finding shelter in the cottage of a laborer who was a friend
to the reform, he disguised himself in the garments of his host, and shouldering a hoe, started
on his journey. Traveling southward, he again found refuge in the dominions of Margaret.(335)

Here for a few months he remained, safe under the protection of powerful friends, and engaged
as before in study. But his heart was set upon the evangelization of France, and he could not
long remain inactive. As soon as the storm had somewhat abated, he sought a new field of labor
in Poitiers, where was a university, and where already the new opinions had found favor. Persons
of all classes gladly listened to the gospel. There was no public preaching, but in the home
of the chief magistrate, in his own lodgings, and sometimes in a public garden, Calvin opened
the words of eternal life to those who desired to listen. After a time, as the number of hearers
increased, it was thought safer to assemble outside the city. A cave in the side of a deep
and narrow gorge, where trees and overhanging rocks made the seclusion still more complete,
was chosen as the place of meeting. Little companies, leaving the city by different routes,
found their way hither. In this retired spot the Bible was read and explained. Here the Lord’s
supper was celebrated for the first time by the Protestants of France. From this little church
several faithful evangelists were sent out.

Once more Calvin returned to Paris. He could not even yet relinquish the hope that France as
a nation would accept the Reformation. But he found almost every door of labor closed. To teach
the gospel was to take the direct road to the stake, and he at last determined to depart to
Germany. Scarcely had he left France when a storm burst over the Protestants, that, had he
remained, must surely have involved him in the general ruin.

The French Reformers, eager to see their country keeping pace with Germany and Switzerland,
determined to strike a bold blow against the superstitions of Rome, that should arouse the
whole nation. Accordingly placards attacking the mass were in one night posted all over France.
Instead of advancing the reform, this zealous but ill-judged movement brought ruin, not only
upon its propagators, but upon the friends of the reformed faith throughout France. It gave
the Romanists what they had long desired,—a pretext for demanding the utter destruction of
the heretics as agitators dangerous to the stability of the throne and the peace of the nation.

By some secret hand—whether of indiscreet friend or wily foe was never known—one of the placards
was attached to the door of the king’s private chamber. The monarch was filled with horror.
In this paper, superstitions that had received the veneration of ages were attacked with an
unsparing hand. And the unexampled boldness of obtruding these plain and startling utterances
into the royal presence, aroused the wrath of the king. In his amazement he stood for a little
time trembling and speechless. Then his rage found utterance in the terrible words: “Let all
be seized without distinction who are suspected of Lutheresy. I will exterminate them all.”(336)
The die was cast. The king had determined to throw himself fully on the side of Rome.

Measures were at once taken for the arrest of every Lutheran in Paris. A poor artisan, an adherent
of the reformed faith, who had been accustomed to summon the believers to their secret assemblies,
was seized, and with the threat of instant death at the stake, was commanded to conduct the
papal emissary to the home of every Protestant in the city. He shrunk in horror from the base
proposal, but at last fear of the flames prevailed, and he consented to become the betrayer
of his brethren. Preceded by the host, and surrounded by a train of priests, incense-bearers,
monks, and soldiers, Morin, the royal detective, with the traitor, slowly and silently passed
through the streets of the city. The demonstration was ostensibly in honor of the “holy sacrament,”
an act of expiation for the insult put upon the mass by the protesters. But beneath this pageant
a deadly purpose was concealed. On arriving opposite the house of a Lutheran, the betrayer
made a sign, but no word was uttered. The procession halted, the house was entered, the family
were dragged forth and chained, and the terrible company went forward in search of fresh victims.
They “spared no house, great or small, not even the colleges of the University of Paris....
Morin made all the city quake.... It was a reign of terror.”(337)

The victims were put to death with cruel torture, it being specially ordered that the fire
should be lowered, in order to prolong their agony. But they died as conquerors. Their constancy
was unshaken, their peace unclouded. Their persecutors, powerless to move their inflexible
firmness, felt themselves defeated. “The scaffolds were distributed over all the quarters of
Paris, and the burnings followed on successive days, the design being to spread the terror
of heresy by spreading the executions. The advantage, however, in the end, remained with the
gospel. All Paris was enabled to see what kind of men the new opinions could produce. There
was no pulpit like the martyr’s pile. The serene joy that lighted up the faces of these men
as they passed along ... to the place of execution, their heroism as they stood amid the bitter
flames, their meek forgiveness of injuries, transformed, in instances not a few, anger into
pity, and hate into love, and pleaded with resistless eloquence in behalf of the gospel.”(338)

The priests, bent upon keeping the popular fury at its height, circulated the most terrible
accusations against the Protestants. They were charged with plotting to massacre the Catholics,
to overthrow the government, and to murder the king. Not a shadow of evidence could be produced
in support of the allegations. Yet these prophecies of evil were to have a fulfilment; under
far different circumstances, however, and from causes of an opposite character. The cruelties
that were inflicted upon the innocent Protestants by the Catholics, accumulated in a weight
of retribution, and in after-centuries wrought the very doom they had predicted to be impending,
upon the king, his government, and his subjects; but it was brought about by infidels, and
by the papists themselves. It was not the establishment, but the suppression, of Protestantism,
that, three hundred years later, was to bring upon France these dire calamities.

Suspicion, distrust, and terror now pervaded all classes of society. Amid the general alarm
it was seen how deep a hold the Lutheran teaching had gained upon the minds of men who stood
highest for education, influence, and excellence of character. Positions of trust and honor
were suddenly found vacant. Artisans, printers, scholars, professors in the universities, authors,
and even courtiers, disappeared. Hundreds fled from Paris, self-constituted exiles from their
native land, in many cases thus giving the first intimation that they favored the reformed
faith. The papists looked about them in amazement at thought of the unsuspected heretics that
had been tolerated among them. Their rage spent itself upon the multitudes of humbler victims
who were within their power. The prisons were crowded, and the very air seemed darkened with
the smoke of burning piles, kindled for the confessors of the gospel.

Francis I. had gloried in being a leader in the great movement for the revival of learning
which marked the opening of the sixteenth century. He had delighted to gather at his court
men of letters from every country. To his love of learning and his contempt for the ignorance
and superstition of the monks was due, in part at least, the degree of toleration that had
been granted to the reform. But, inspired with zeal to stamp out heresy, this patron of learning
issued an edict declaring printing abolished all over France! Francis I. presents one among
the many examples on record showing that intellectual culture is not a safeguard against religious
intolerance and persecution.

France by a solemn and public ceremony was to commit herself fully to the destruction of Protestantism.
The priests demanded that the affront offered to high Heaven in the condemnation of the mass,
be expiated in blood, and that the king, in behalf of his people, publicly give his sanction
to the dreadful work.

The 21st of January, 1535, was fixed upon for the awful ceremonial. The superstitious fears
and bigoted hatred of the whole nation had been roused. Paris was thronged with the multitudes
that from all the surrounding country crowded her streets. The day was to be ushered in by
a vast and imposing procession. “The houses along the line of march were hung with mourning
drapery, and altars rose at intervals.” Before every door was a lighted torch in honor of the
“holy sacrament.” Before daybreak the procession formed, at the palace of the king. “First
came the banners and crosses of the several parishes; next appeared the citizens, walking two
and two, and bearing torches.” The four orders of friars followed, each in its own peculiar
dress. Then came a vast collection of famous relics. Following these rode lordly ecclesiastics
in their purple and scarlet robes and jeweled adornings, a gorgeous and glittering array.

“The host was carried by the bishop of Paris under a magnificent canopy, ... supported by four
princes of the blood.... After the host walked the king.... Francis I. on that day wore no
crown, nor robe of state.” With “head uncovered, his eyes cast on the ground, and in his hand
a lighted taper,” the king of France appeared “in the character of a penitent.”(339) At every
altar he bowed down in humiliation, not for the vices that defiled his soul, nor the innocent
blood that stained his hands, but for the deadly sin of his subjects who had dared to condemn
the mass. Following him came the queen and the dignitaries of state, also walking two and two,
each with a lighted torch.

As a part of the services of the day, the monarch himself addressed the high officials of the
kingdom in the great hall of the bishop’s palace. With a sorrowful countenance he appeared
before them, and in words of moving eloquence bewailed “the crime, the blasphemy, the day of
sorrow and disgrace,” that had come upon the nation. And he called upon every loyal subject
to aid in the extirpation of the pestilent heresy that threatened France with ruin. “As true,
Messieurs, as I am your king,” he said, “if I knew one of my own limbs spotted or infected
with this detestable rottenness, I would give it you to cut off.... And further, if I saw one
of my children defiled by it, I would not spare him.... I would deliver him up myself, and
would sacrifice him to God.” Tears choked his utterance, and the whole assembly wept, with
one accord exclaiming, “We will live and die for the Catholic religion!”(340)

Terrible had become the darkness of the nation that had rejected the light of truth. “The grace
that bringeth salvation” had appeared; but France, after beholding its power and holiness,
after thousands had been drawn by its divine beauty, after cities and hamlets had been illuminated
by its radiance, had turned away, choosing darkness rather than light. They had put from them
the heavenly gift, when it was offered them. They had called evil good, and good evil, till
they had fallen victims to their wilful self-deception. Now, though they might actually believe
that they were doing God service in persecuting His people, yet their sincerity did not render
them guiltless. The light that would have saved them from deception, from staining their souls
with blood-guiltiness, they had wilfully rejected.

A solemn oath to extirpate heresy was taken in the great cathedral where, nearly three centuries
later, the “Goddess of Reason” was to be enthroned by a nation that had forgotten the living
God. Again the procession formed, and the representatives of France set out to begin the work
which they had sworn to do. “At short distances scaffolds had been erected, on which certain
Protestant Christians were to be burned alive, and it was arranged that the fagots should be
lighted at the moment the king approached, and that the procession should halt to witness the
execution.”(341) The details of the tortures endured by these witnesses for Christ are too
harrowing for recital; but there was no wavering on the part of the victims. On being urged
to recant, one answered: “I only believe in what the prophets and the apostles formerly preached,
and what all the company of saints believed. My faith has a confidence in God which will resist
all the powers of hell.”(342)

Again and again the procession halted at the places of torture. Upon reaching their starting-point
at the royal palace, the crowd dispersed, and the king and the prelates withdrew, well satisfied
with the day’s proceedings, and congratulating themselves that the work now begun would be
continued to the complete destruction of heresy.

The gospel of peace which France had rejected was to be only too surely rooted out, and terrible
would be the results. On the 21st of January, 1793, two hundred and fifty-eight years from
the very day that fully committed France to the persecution of the Reformers, another procession,
with a far different purpose, passed through the streets of Paris. “Again the king was the
chief figure; again there were tumult and shouting; again there was heard the cry for more
victims; again there were black scaffolds; and again the scenes of the day were closed by horrid
executions; Louis XVI., struggling hand to hand with his jailers and executioners, was dragged
forward to the block, and there held down by main force till the axe had fallen, and his dissevered
head rolled on the scaffold.”(343) Nor was the king the only victim; near the same spot two
thousand and eight hundred human beings perished by the guillotine during the bloody days of
the Reign of Terror.

The Reformation had presented to the world an open Bible, unsealing the precepts of the law
of God, and urging its claims upon the consciences of the people. Infinite Love had unfolded
to men the statutes and principles of heaven.

Long before the persecution excited by the placards, the bold and ardent Farel had been forced
to flee from the land of his birth. He repaired to Switzerland, and by his labors, seconding
the work of Zwingle, he helped to turn the scale in favor of the Reformation. His later years
were to be spent here, yet he continued to exert a decided influence upon the reform in France.
During the first years of his exile, his efforts were especially directed to spreading the
gospel in his native country. He spent considerable time in preaching among his countrymen
near the frontier, where with tireless vigilance he watched the conflict, and aided by his
words of encouragement and counsel. With the assistance of other exiles, the writings of the
German Reformers were translated into the French language, and together with the French Bible,
were printed in large quantities. By colporteurs, these works were sold extensively in France.
They were furnished to the colporteurs at a low price, and thus the profits of the work enabled
them to continue it.

Farel entered upon his work in Switzerland in the humble guise of a schoolmaster. Repairing
to a secluded parish, he devoted himself to the instruction of children. Besides the usual
branches of learning, he cautiously introduced the truths of the Bible, hoping through the
children to reach their parents. There were some who believed, but the priests came forward
to stop the work, and the superstitious country people were roused to oppose it. “That cannot
be the gospel of Christ,” urged the priests, “seeing the preaching of it does not bring peace,
but war.”(345) Like the first disciples, when persecuted in one city he fled to another. From
village to village, from city to city, he went, traveling on foot, enduring hunger, cold, and
weariness, and everywhere in peril of his life. He preached in the market-places, in the churches,
sometimes in the pulpits of the cathedrals. Sometimes he found the church empty of hearers;
at times his preaching was interrupted by shouts and jeers; again he was pulled violently out
of the pulpit. More than once he was set upon by the rabble, and beaten almost to death. Yet
he pressed forward. Though often repulsed, with unwearying persistence he returned to the attack;
and one after another, he saw towns and cities which had been strongholds of popery, opening
their gates to the gospel. The little parish where he had first labored, soon accepted the
reformed faith. The cities of Morat and Neuchâtel also renounced the Romish rites, and removed
the idolatrous images from their churches.

Farel had long desired to plant the Protestant standard in Geneva. If this city could be won,
it would be a center for the Reformation in France, in Switzerland, and in Italy. With this
object before him, he had continued his labors until many of the surrounding towns and hamlets
had been gained. Then with a single companion he entered Geneva. But only two sermons was he
permitted to preach. The priests, having vainly endeavored to secure his condemnation by the
civil authorities, summoned him before an ecclesiastical council, to which they came with arms
concealed under their robes, determined to take his life. Outside the hall, a furious mob,
with clubs and swords, was gathered to make sure of his death if he should succeed in escaping
the council. The presence of magistrates and an armed force, however, saved him. Early next
morning he was conducted, with his companion, across the lake to a place of safety. Thus ended
his first effort to evangelize Geneva.

For the next trial a lowlier instrument was chosen,—a young man, so humble in appearance that
he was coldly treated even by the professed friends of reform. But what could such a one do
where Farel had been rejected? How could one of little courage and experience withstand the
tempest before which the strongest and bravest had been forced to flee? The truths which he
taught the children at school, they repeated at their homes. Soon the parents came to hear
the Bible explained, until the schoolroom was filled with attentive listeners. New Testaments
and tracts were freely distributed, and they reached many who dared not come openly to listen
to the new doctrines. After a time this laborer also was forced to flee; but the truths he
taught had taken hold upon the minds of the people. The Reformation had been planted, and it
continued to strengthen and extend. The preachers returned, and through their labors the Protestant
worship was finally established in Geneva.

The city had already declared for the Reformation, when Calvin, after various wanderings and
vicissitudes, entered its gates. Returning from a last visit to his birthplace, he was on his
way to Basel, when, finding the direct road occupied by the armies of Charles V., he was forced
to take the circuitous route by Geneva.

In this visit, Farel recognized the hand of God. Though Geneva had accepted the reformed faith,
yet a great work remained to be accomplished here. It is not as communities but as individuals
that men are converted to God; the work of regeneration must be wrought in the heart and conscience
by the power of the Holy Spirit, not by the decrees of councils. While the people of Geneva
had cast off the authority of Rome, they were not so ready to renounce the vices that had flourished
under her rule. To establish here the pure principles of the gospel, and to prepare this people
to fill worthily the position to which Providence seemed calling them, was no light task.

Farel was confident that he had found in Calvin one whom he could unite with himself in this
work. In the name of God he solemnly adjured the young evangelist to remain and labor here.
Calvin drew back in alarm. Timid and peace-loving, he shrank from contact with the bold, independent,
and even violent spirit of the Genevese. The feebleness of his health, together with his studious
habits, led him to seek retirement. Believing that by his pen he could best serve the cause
of reform, he desired to find a quiet retreat for study, and there, through the press, instruct
and build up the churches. But Farel’s solemn admonition came to him as a call from heaven,
and he dared not refuse. It seemed to him, he said, “that the hand of God was stretched down
from heaven, that it lay hold of him, and fixed him irrevocably to the place he was so impatient
to leave.”(348)

At this time great perils surrounded the Protestant cause. The anathemas of the pope thundered
against Geneva, and mighty nations threatened it with destruction. How was this little city
to resist the powerful hierarchy that had so often forced kings and emperors to submission?
How could it stand against the armies of the world’s great conquerors?

Throughout Christendom, Protestantism was menaced by formidable foes. The first triumphs of
the Reformation past, Rome summoned new forces, hoping to accomplish its destruction. At this
time, the order of the Jesuits was created, the most cruel, unscrupulous, and powerful of all
the champions of popery. Cut off from earthly ties and human interests, dead to the claims
of natural affection, reason and conscience wholly silenced, they knew no rule, no tie, but
that of their order, and no duty but to extend its power.(349) The gospel of Christ had enabled
its adherents to meet danger and endure suffering, undismayed by cold, hunger, toil, and poverty,
to uphold the banner of truth in face of the rack, the dungeon, and the stake. To combat these
forces, Jesuitism inspired its followers with a fanaticism that enabled them to endure like
dangers, and to oppose to the power of truth all the weapons of deception. There was no crime
too great for them to commit, no deception too base for them to practise, no disguise too difficult
for them to assume. Vowed to perpetual poverty and humility, it was their studied aim to secure
wealth and power, to be devoted to the overthrow of Protestantism, and the reestablishment
of the papal supremacy.

When appearing as members of their order, they wore a garb of sanctity, visiting prisons and
hospitals, ministering to the sick and the poor, professing to have renounced the world, and
bearing the sacred name of Jesus, who went about doing good. But under this blameless exterior
the most criminal and deadly purposes were often concealed. It was a fundamental principle
of the order that the end justifies the means. By this code, lying, theft, perjury, assassination,
were not only pardonable but commendable, when they served the interests of the church. Under
various disguises the Jesuits worked their way into offices of state, climbing up to be the
counselors of kings, and shaping the policy of nations. They became servants, to act as spies
upon their masters. They established colleges for the sons of princes and nobles, and schools
for the common people; and the children of Protestant parents were drawn into an observance
of popish rites. All the outward pomp and display of the Romish worship was brought to bear
to confuse the mind, and dazzle and captivate the imagination; and thus the liberty for which
the fathers had toiled and bled was betrayed by the sons. The Jesuits rapidly spread themselves
over Europe, and wherever they went, there followed a revival of popery.

To give them greater power, a bull was issued re-establishing the Inquisition.(350) Notwithstanding
the general abhorrence with which it was regarded, even in Catholic countries, this terrible
tribunal was again set up by popish rulers, and atrocities too terrible to bear the light of
day were repeated in its secret dungeons. In many countries, thousands upon thousands of the
very flower of the nation, the purest and noblest, the most intellectual and highly educated,
pious and devoted pastors, industrious and patriotic citizens, brilliant scholars, talented
artists, skilful artisans, were slain, or forced to flee to other lands.

Such were the means which Rome had invoked to quench the light of the Reformation, to withdraw
from men the Bible, and to restore the ignorance and superstition of the Dark Ages. But under
God’s blessing and the labors of those noble men whom He had raised up to succeed Luther, Protestantism
was not overthrown. Not to the favor or arms of princes was it to owe its strength. The smallest
countries, the humblest and least powerful nations, became its strongholds. It was little Geneva
in the midst of mighty foes plotting her destruction; it was Holland on her sand-banks by the
northern sea, wrestling against the tyranny of Spain, then the greatest and most opulent of
kingdoms; it was bleak, sterile Sweden, that gained victories for the Reformation.

For nearly thirty years, Calvin labored at Geneva; first to establish there a church adhering
to the morality of the Bible, and then for the advancement of the Reformation throughout Europe.
His course as a public leader was not faultless, nor were his doctrines free from error. But
he was instrumental in promulgating truths that were of special importance in his time, in
maintaining the principles of Protestantism against the fast-returning tide of popery, and
in promoting in the reformed churches simplicity and purity of life, in place of the pride
and corruption fostered under the Romish teaching.

From Geneva, publications and teachers went out to spread the reformed doctrines. To this point
the persecuted of all lands looked for instruction, counsel, and encouragement. The city of
Calvin became a refuge for the hunted Reformers of all Western Europe. Fleeing from the awful
tempests that continued for centuries, the fugitives came to the gates of Geneva. Starving,
wounded, bereft of home and kindred, they were warmly welcomed and tenderly cared for; and
finding a home here, they blessed the city of their adoption by their skill, their learning,
and their piety. Many who sought here a refuge returned to their own countries to resist the
tyranny of Rome. John Knox, the brave Scotch Reformer, not a few of the English Puritans, the
Protestants of Holland and of Spain, and the Huguenots of France, carried from Geneva the torch
of truth to lighten the darkness of their native lands.

13. THE NETHERLANDS AND SCANDINAVIA.

In the Netherlands the papal tyranny very early called forth resolute protest. Seven hundred
years before Luther’s time, the Roman pontiff was thus fearlessly impeached by two bishops,
who, having been sent on an embassy to Rome, had learned the true character of the “holy see:”
God “has made His queen and spouse, the church, a noble and everlasting provision for her family,
with a dowry that is neither fading nor corruptible, and given her an eternal crown and scepter;
... all which benefits you like a thief intercept. You set up yourself in the temple as God;
instead of pastor, you are become a wolf to the sheep; ... you would make us believe you are
a supreme bishop, but you rather behave like a tyrant.... Whereas you ought to be a servant
of servants, as you call yourself, you endeavor to become a lord of lords.... You bring the
commands of God into contempt.... The Holy Ghost is the builder of all churches as far as the
earth extends.... The city of our God, of which we are the citizens, reaches to all the regions
of the heavens; and it is greater than the city, by the holy prophets named Babylon, which
pretends to be divine, wins herself to heaven, and brags that her wisdom is immortal; and finally,
though without reason, that she never did err, nor ever can.”(351)

Others arose from century to century to echo this protest. And those early teachers, who, traversing
different lands and known by various names, bore the character of the Vaudois missionaries,
and spread everywhere the knowledge of the gospel, penetrated to the Netherlands. Their doctrines
spread rapidly. The Waldensian Bible they translated in verse into the Dutch language. They
declared “that there was great advantage in it; no jests, no fables, no trifles, no deceits,
but the words of truth; that indeed there was here and there a hard crust, but that the marrow
and sweetness of what was good and holy might be easily discovered in it.”(352) Thus wrote
the friends of the ancient faith, in the twelfth century.

Now began the Romish persecutions; but in the midst of fagots and torture the believers continued
to multiply, steadfastly declaring that the Bible is the only infallible authority in religion,
and that “no man should be coerced to believe, but should be won by preaching.”(353)

The teachings of Luther found a congenial soil in the Netherlands, and earnest and faithful
men arose to preach the gospel. From one of the provinces of Holland came Menno Simons. Educated
a Roman Catholic, and ordained to the priesthood, he was wholly ignorant of the Bible, and
he would not read it, for fear of being beguiled into heresy. When a doubt concerning the doctrine
of transubstantiation forced itself upon him, he regarded it as a temptation from Satan, and
by prayer and confession sought to free himself from it; but in vain. By mingling in scenes
of dissipation he endeavored to silence the accusing voice of conscience; but without avail.
After a time he was led to the study of the New Testament, and this, with Luther’s writings,
caused him to accept the reformed faith. He soon after witnessed in a neighboring village the
beheading of a man who was put to death for having been rebaptized. This led him to study the
Bible in regard to infant baptism. He could find no evidence for it in the Scriptures, but
saw that repentance and faith are everywhere required as the condition of receiving baptism.

Menno withdrew from the Roman Church, and devoted his life to teaching the truths which he
had received. In both Germany and the Netherlands a class of fanatics had risen, advocating
absurd and seditious doctrines, outraging order and decency, and proceeding to violence and
insurrection. Menno saw the horrible results to which these movements would inevitably lead,
and he strenuously opposed the erroneous teachings and wild schemes of the fanatics. There
were many, however, who had been misled by these fanatics, but who had renounced their pernicious
doctrines; and there were still remaining many descendants of the ancient Christians, the fruits
of the Waldensian teaching. Among these classes Menno labored with great zeal and success.

For twenty-five years he traveled, with his wife and children, enduring great hardships and
privations, and frequently in peril of his life. He traversed the Netherlands and northern
Germany, laboring chiefly among the humbler classes, but exerting a wide-spread influence.
Naturally eloquent, though possessing a limited education, he was a man of unwavering integrity,
of humble spirit and gentle manners, and of sincere and earnest piety, exemplifying in his
own life the precepts which he taught, and he commanded the confidence of the people. His followers
were scattered and oppressed. They suffered greatly from being confounded with the fanatical
Munsterites. Yet great numbers were converted under his labors.

Nowhere were the reformed doctrines more generally received than in the Netherlands. In few
countries did their adherents endure more terrible persecution. In Germany Charles V. had banned
the Reformation, and he would gladly have brought all its adherents to the stake; but the princes
stood up as a barrier against his tyranny. In the Netherlands his power was greater, and persecuting
edicts followed each other in quick succession. To read the Bible, to hear or preach it, or
even to speak concerning it, was to incur the penalty of death by the stake. To pray to God
in secret, to refrain from bowing to an image, or to sing a psalm, was also punishable with
death. Even those who should abjure their errors, were condemned, if men, to die by the sword;
if women, to be buried alive. Thousands perished under the reign of Charles and of Philip II.

At one time a whole family was brought before the inquisitors, charged with remaining away
from mass, and worshiping at home. On his examination as to their practices in secret, the
youngest son answered, “We fall on our knees, and pray that God may enlighten our minds and
pardon our sins; we pray for our sovereign, that his reign may be prosperous and his life happy;
we pray for our magistrates, that God may preserve them.”(354) Some of the judges were deeply
moved, yet the father and one of his sons were condemned to the stake.

The rage of the persecutors was equaled by the faith of the martyrs. Not only men but delicate
women and young maidens displayed unflinching courage. “Wives would take their stand by their
husband’s stake, and while he was enduring the fire they would whisper words of solace, or
sing psalms to cheer him.” “Young maidens would lie down in their living grave as if they were
entering into their chamber of nightly sleep; or go forth to the scaffold and the fire, dressed
in their best apparel, as if they were going to their marriage.”(355)

As in the days when paganism sought to destroy the gospel, the blood of the Christians was
seed.(356) Persecution served to increase the number of witnesses for the truth. Year after
year the monarch, stung to madness by the unconquerable determination of the people, urged
on his cruel work; but in vain. Under the noble William of Orange, the Revolution at last brought
to Holland freedom to worship God.

In the mountains of Piedmont, on the plains of France and the shores of Holland, the progress
of the gospel was marked with the blood of its disciples. But in the countries of the North
it found a peaceful entrance. Students at Wittenberg, returning to their homes, carried the
reformed faith to Scandinavia. The publication of Luther’s writings also spread the light.
The simple, hardy people of the North turned from the corruption, the pomp, and the superstitions
of Rome, to welcome the purity, the simplicity, and the life-giving truths of the Bible.

Tausen, “the Reformer of Denmark,” was a peasant’s son. The boy early gave evidence of vigorous
intellect; he thirsted for an education; but this was denied him by the circumstances of his
parents, and he entered a cloister. Here the purity of his life, together with his diligence
and fidelity, won the favor of his superior. Examination showed him to possess talent that
promised at some future day good service to the church. It was determined to give him an education
at some one of the universities of Germany or the Netherlands. The young student was granted
permission to choose a school for himself, with one proviso, that he must not go to Wittenberg.
The scholar of the church was not to be endangered by the poison of heresy. So said the friars.

Tausen went to Cologne, which was then, as now, one of the strongholds of Romanism. Here he
soon became disgusted with the mysticisms of the schoolmen. About the same time he obtained
Luther’s writings. He read them with wonder and delight, and greatly desired to enjoy the personal
instruction of the Reformer. But to do so he must risk giving offense to his monastic superior,
and forfeiting his support. His decision was soon made, and erelong he was enrolled as a student
at Wittenberg.

On returning to Denmark, he again repaired to his cloister. No one as yet suspected him of
Lutheranism; he did not reveal his secret, but endeavored, without exciting the prejudices
of his companions, to lead them to a purer faith and a holier life. He opened the Bible, and
explained its true meaning, and at last preached Christ to them as the sinner’s righteousness
and his only hope of salvation. Great was the wrath of the prior, who had built high hopes
upon him as a valiant defender of Rome. He was at once removed from his own monastery to another,
and confined to his cell, under strict supervision.

To the terror of his new guardians, several of the monks soon declared themselves converts
to Protestantism. Through the bars of his cell, Tausen had communicated to his companions a
knowledge of the truth. Had those Danish fathers been skilled in the church’s plan of dealing
with heresy, Tausen’s voice would never again have been heard; but instead of consigning him
to a tomb in some underground dungeon, they expelled him from the monastery. Now they were
powerless. A royal edict, just issued, offered protection to the teachers of the new doctrine.
Tausen began to preach. The churches were opened to him, and the people thronged to listen.
Others also were preaching the word of God. The New Testament, translated into the Danish tongue,
was widely circulated. The efforts made by the papists to overthrow the work resulted in extending
it, and erelong Denmark declared its acceptance of the reformed faith.

In Sweden, also, young men who had drunk from the well of Wittenberg carried the water of life
to their countrymen. Two of the leaders in the Swedish Reformation, Olaf and Laurentius Petri,
the sons of a blacksmith of Orebro, studied under Luther and Melanchthon, and the truths which
they thus learned they were diligent to teach. Like the great Reformer, Olaf aroused the people
by his zeal and eloquence, while Laurentius, like Melanchthon, was learned, thoughtful, and
calm. Both were men of ardent piety, of high theological attainments, and of unflinching courage
in advancing the truth. Papist opposition was not lacking. The Catholic priests stirred up
the ignorant and superstitious people. Olaf Petri was often assailed by the mob, and upon several
occasions barely escaped with his life. These reformers were, however, favored and protected
by the king.

Under the rule of the Roman Church, the people were sunken in poverty, and ground down by oppression.
They were destitute of the Scriptures; and having a religion of mere signs and ceremonies,
which conveyed no light to the mind, they were returning to the superstitious beliefs and pagan
practices of their heathen ancestors. The nation was divided into contending factions, whose
perpetual strife increased the misery of all. The king determined upon a reformation in the
state and the church, and he welcomed these able assistants in the battle against Rome.

In the presence of the monarch and the leading men of Sweden, Olaf Petri with great ability
defended the doctrines of the reformed faith against the Romish champions. He declared that
the teachings of the Fathers are to be received only when in accordance with the Scriptures;
that the essential doctrines of the faith are presented in the Bible in a clear and simple
manner, so that all men may understand them. Christ said, “My doctrine is not Mine, but His
that sent Me;”(357) and Paul declared that should he preach any other gospel than that which
he had received, he would be accursed.(358) “How, then,” said the Reformer, “shall others presume
to enact dogmas at their pleasure, and impose them as things necessary to salvation?”(359)
He showed that the decrees of the church are of no authority when in opposition to the commands
of God, and maintained the great Protestant principle, that “the Bible and the Bible only,”
is the rule of faith and practice.

This contest, though conducted upon a stage comparatively obscure, serves to show us “the sort
of men that formed the rank and file of the army of the Reformers. They were not illiterate,
sectarian, noisy controversialists—far from it; they were men who had studied the word of God,
and knew well how to wield the weapons with which the armory of the Bible supplied them. In
respect of erudition they were ahead of their age. When we confine our attention to such brilliant
centers as Wittenberg and Zurich, and to such illustrious names as those of Luther and Melanchthon,
of Zwingle and Œcolampadius, we are apt to be told, these were the leaders of the movement,
and we should naturally expect in them prodigious power and vast acquisitions; but the subordinates
were not like these. Well, we turn to the obscure theater of Sweden, and the humble names of
Olaf and Laurentius Petri—from the masters to the disciples—what do we find?... Scholars and
theologians; men who have thoroughly mastered the whole system of gospel truth, and who win
an easy victory over the sophists of the schools and the dignitaries of Rome.”(360)

As the result of this disputation, the king of Sweden accepted the Protestant faith, and not
long afterward the national assembly declared in its favor. The New Testament had been translated
by Olaf Petri into the Swedish language, and at the desire of the king the two brothers undertook
the translation of the whole Bible. Thus for the first time the people of Sweden received the
word of God in their native tongue. It was ordered by the Diet that throughout the kingdom,
ministers should explain the Scriptures, and that the children in the schools should be taught
to read the Bible.

Steadily and surely the darkness of ignorance and superstition was dispelled by the blessed
light of the gospel. Freed from Romish oppression, the nation attained to a strength and greatness
it had never before reached. Sweden became one of the bulwarks of Protestantism. A century
later, at a time of sorest peril, this small and hitherto feeble nation—the only one in Europe
that dared lend a helping hand—came to the deliverance of Germany in the terrible struggles
of the Thirty Years’ War. All Northern Europe seemed about to be brought again under the tyranny
of Rome. It was the armies of Sweden that enabled Germany to turn the tide of popish success,
to win toleration for the Protestants,—Calvinists as well as Lutherans,—and to restore liberty
of conscience to those countries that had accepted the Reformation.

14. LATER ENGLISH REFORMERS.

While Luther was opening a closed Bible to the people of Germany, Tyndale was impelled by the
Spirit of God to do the same for England. Wycliffe’s Bible had been translated from the Latin
text, which contained many errors. It had never been printed, and the cost of manuscript copies
was so great that few but wealthy men or nobles could procure it; and furthermore, being strictly
proscribed by the church, it had had a comparatively narrow circulation. In 1516, a year before
the appearance of Luther’s theses, Erasmus had published his Greek and Latin version of the
New Testament. Now for the first time the word of God was printed in the original tongue. In
this work many errors of former versions were corrected, and the sense was more clearly rendered.
It led many among the educated classes to a better knowledge of the truth, and gave a new impetus
to the work of reform. But the common people were still, to a great extent, debarred from God’s
word. Tyndale was to complete the work of Wycliffe in giving the Bible to his countrymen.

A diligent student and an earnest seeker for truth, he had received the gospel from the Greek
Testament of Erasmus. He fearlessly preached his convictions, urging that all doctrines be
tested by the Scriptures. To the papist claim that the church had given the Bible, and the
church alone could explain it, Tyndale responded: “Do you know who taught the eagles to find
their prey? Well, that same God teaches His hungry children to find their Father in His word.
Far from having given us the Scriptures, it is you who have hidden them from us; it is you
who burn those who teach them, and if you could, you would burn the Scriptures themselves.”(361)

Tyndale’s preaching excited great interest; many accepted the truth. But the priests were on
the alert, and no sooner had he left the field than they by their threats and misrepresentations
endeavored to destroy his work. Too often they succeeded. “What is to be done?” he exclaimed.
“While I am sowing in one place, the enemy ravages the field I have just left. I cannot be
everywhere. Oh! if Christians possessed the Holy Scriptures in their own tongue, they could
of themselves withstand these sophists. Without the Bible it is impossible to establish the
laity in the truth.”(362)

A new purpose now took possession of his mind. “It was in the language of Israel,” said he,
“that the psalms were sung in the temple of Jehovah; and shall not the gospel speak the language
of England among us?... Ought the church to have less light at noonday than at the dawn?...
Christians must read the New Testament in their mother-tongue.” The doctors and teachers of
the church disagreed among themselves. Only by the Bible could men arrive at the truth. “One
holdeth this doctor, another that.... Now each of these authors contradicts the other. How
then can we distinguish him who says right from him who says wrong?... How?... Verily by God’s
word.”(363)

It was not long after that a learned Catholic doctor, engaging in controversy with him, exclaimed,
“We were better to be without God’s laws than the pope’s.” Tyndale replied, “I defy the pope
and all his laws; and if God spare my life, ere many years I will cause a boy that driveth
the plow to know more of the Scripture than you do.”(364)

The purpose which he had begun to cherish, of giving to the people the New Testament Scriptures
in their own language, was now confirmed, and he immediately applied himself to the work. Driven
from his home by persecution, he went to London, and there for a time pursued his labors undisturbed.
But again the violence of the papists forced him to flee. All England seemed closed against
him, and he resolved to seek shelter in Germany. Here he began the printing of the English
New Testament. Twice the work was stopped; but when forbidden to print in one city, he went
to another. At last he made his way to Worms, where, a few years before, Luther had defended
the gospel before the Diet. In that ancient city were many friends of the Reformation, and
Tyndale there prosecuted his work without further hindrance. Three thousand copies of the New
Testament were soon finished, and another edition followed in the same year.

With great earnestness and perseverance he continued his labors. Notwithstanding the English
authorities had guarded their ports with the strictest vigilance, the word of God was in various
ways secretly conveyed to London, and thence circulated throughout the country. The papists
attempted to suppress the truth, but in vain. The bishop of Durham at one time bought of a
bookseller who was a friend of Tyndale, his whole stock of Bibles, for the purpose of destroying
them, supposing that this would greatly hinder the work. But on the contrary, the money thus
furnished, purchased material for a new and better edition, which, but for this, could not
have been published. When Tyndale was afterward made a prisoner, his liberty was offered him
on condition that he would reveal the names of those who had helped him meet the expense of
printing his Bibles. He replied that the bishop of Durham had done more than any other person;
for by paying a large price for the books left on hand, he had enabled him to go on with good
courage.

Tyndale was betrayed into the hands of his enemies, and at one time suffered imprisonment for
many months. He finally witnessed for his faith by a martyr’s death; but the weapons which
he prepared have enabled other soldiers to do battle through all the centuries even to our time.

Latimer maintained from the pulpit that the Bible ought to be read in the language of the people.
The Author of Holy Scripture, said he, “is God Himself;” and this Scripture partakes of the
might and eternity of its Author. “There is no king, emperor, magistrate, and ruler ... but
are bound to obey ... His holy word.” “Let us not take any by-walks, but let God’s word direct
us: let us not walk after ... our forefathers, nor seek not what they did, but what they should
have done.”(365)

Barnes and Frith, the faithful friends of Tyndale, arose to defend the truth. The Ridleys and
Cranmer followed. These leaders in the English Reformation were men of learning, and most of
them had been highly esteemed for zeal or piety in the Romish communion. Their opposition to
the papacy was the result of their knowledge of the errors of the “holy see.” Their acquaintance
with the mysteries of Babylon, gave greater power to their testimonies against her.

“Now I would ask a strange question,” said Latimer. “Who is the most diligent bishop and prelate
in all England? ... I see you listening and hearkening that I should name him.... I will tell
you: it is the devil.... He is never out of his diocese; ... call for him when you will, he
is ever at home; ... he is ever at his plow.... Ye shall never find him idle, I warrant you....
Where the devil is resident, ... there away with books, and up with candles; away with Bibles,
and up with beads; away with the light of the gospel, and up with the light of candles, yea,
at noondays; ... down with Christ’s cross, up with purgatory pick-purse; ... away with clothing
the naked, the poor, and impotent, up with decking of images and gay garnishing of stocks and
stones; up with man’s traditions and his laws, down with God’s traditions and His most holy
word.... O that our prelates would be as diligent to sow the corn of good doctrine, as Satan
is to sow cockle and darnel!”(366)

The grand principle maintained by these Reformers—the same that had been held by the Waldenses,
by Wycliffe, by John Huss, by Luther, Zwingle, and those who united with them—was the infallible
authority of the Holy Scriptures as a rule of faith and practice. They denied the right of
popes, councils, Fathers, and kings, to control the conscience in matters of religion. The
Bible was their authority, and by its teaching they tested all doctrines and all claims. Faith
in God and His word sustained these holy men as they yielded up their lives at the stake. “Be
of good comfort,” exclaimed Latimer to his fellow-martyr as the flames were about to silence
their voices, “we shall this day light such a candle, by God’s grace, in England, as I trust
shall never be put out.”(367)

In Scotland the seeds of truth scattered by Columba and his co-laborers had never been wholly
destroyed. For hundreds of years after the churches of England submitted to Rome, those of
Scotland maintained their freedom. In the twelfth century, however, popery became established
here, and in no country did it exercise a more absolute sway. Nowhere was the darkness deeper.
Still there came rays of light to pierce the gloom, and give promise of the coming day. The
Lollards, coming from England with the Bible and the teachings of Wycliffe, did much to preserve
the knowledge of the gospel, and every century had its witnesses and martyrs.

With the opening of the Great Reformation came the writings of Luther, and then Tyndale’s English
New Testament. Unnoticed by the hierarchy, these messengers silently traversed the mountains
and valleys, kindling into new life the torch of truth so nearly extinguished in Scotland,
and undoing the work which Rome for four centuries of oppression had done.

Then the blood of martyrs gave fresh impetus to the movement. The papist leaders, suddenly
awakening to the danger that threatened their cause, brought to the stake some of the noblest
and most honored of the sons of Scotland. They did but erect a pulpit, from which the words
of these dying witnesses were heard throughout the land, thrilling the souls of the people
with an undying purpose to cast off the shackles of Rome.

Hamilton and Wishart, princely in character as in birth, with a long line of humbler disciples,
yielded up their lives at the stake. But from the burning pile of Wishart there came one whom
the flames were not to silence, one who under God was to strike the death-knell of popery in
Scotland.

John Knox had turned away from the traditions and mysticisms of the church, to feed upon the
truths of God’s word; and the teaching of Wishart had confirmed his determination to forsake
the communion of Rome, and join himself to the persecuted Reformers.

Urged by his companions to take the office of preacher, he shrunk with trembling from its responsibility,
and it was only after days of seclusion and painful conflict with himself that he consented.
But having once accepted the position, he pressed forward with inflexible determination and
undaunted courage as long as life continued. This true-hearted Reformer feared not the face
of man. The fires of martyrdom, blazing around him, served only to quicken his zeal to greater
intensity. With the tyrant’s axe held menacingly over his head, he stood his ground, striking
sturdy blows on the right hand and on the left to demolish idolatry.

When brought face to face with the queen of Scotland, in whose presence the zeal of many a
leader of the Protestants had abated, John Knox bore unswerving witness for the truth. He was
not to be won by caresses; he quailed not before threats. The queen charged him with heresy.
He had taught the people to receive a religion prohibited by the state, she declared, and had
thus transgressed God’s command enjoining subjects to obey their princes. Knox answered firmly:

“As right religion took neither original strength nor authority from worldly princes, but from
the eternal God alone, so are not subjects bound to frame their religion according to the appetites
of their princes. For oft it is that princes are the most ignorant of all others in God’s true
religion.... If all the seed of Abraham had been of the religion of Pharaoh, whose subjects
they long were, I pray you, madam, what religion would there have been in the world? Or if
all men in the days of the apostles had been of the religion of the Roman emperors, what religion
would there have been upon the face of the earth?... And so, madam, ye may perceive that subjects
are not bound to the religion of their princes, albeit they are commanded to give them obedience.”

Said Mary, “Ye interpret the Scriptures in one manner, and they [the Roman Catholic teachers]
interpret in another; whom shall I believe, and who shall be judge?”

“Ye shall believe God, that plainly speaketh in His word,” answered the Reformer; “and farther
than the Word teaches you, ye neither shall believe the one nor the other. The word of God
is plain in itself; and if there appear any obscurity in one place, the Holy Ghost, which is
never contrary to Himself, explains the same more clearly in other places, so that there can
remain no doubt but unto such as obstinately remain ignorant.”(368)

Such were the truths that the fearless Reformer, at the peril of his life, spoke in the ear
of royalty. With the same undaunted courage he kept to his purpose, praying and fighting the
battles of the Lord, until Scotland was free from popery.

In England the establishment of Protestantism as the national religion diminished, but did
not wholly stop, persecution. While many of the doctrines of Rome had been renounced, not a
few of its forms were retained. The supremacy of the pope was rejected, but in his place the
monarch was enthroned as the head of the church. In the service of the church there was still
a wide departure from the purity and simplicity of the gospel. The great principle of religious
liberty was not as yet understood. Though the horrible cruelties which Rome employed against
heresy were resorted to but rarely by Protestant rulers, yet the right of every man to worship
God according to the dictates of his own conscience was not acknowledged. All were required
to accept the doctrines and observe the forms of worship prescribed by the established church.
Dissenters suffered persecution, to a greater or less extent, for hundreds of years.

In the seventeenth century thousands of pastors were expelled from their positions. The people
were forbidden, on pain of heavy fines, imprisonment, and banishment, to attend any religious
meetings except such as were sanctioned by the church. Those faithful souls who could not refrain
from gathering to worship God, were compelled to meet in dark alleys, in obscure garrets, and
at some seasons in the woods at midnight. In the sheltering depths of the forest, a temple
of God’s own building, those scattered and persecuted children of the Lord assembled to pour
out their souls in prayer and praise. But despite all their precautions, many suffered for
their faith. The jails were crowded. Families were broken up. Many were banished to foreign
lands. Yet God was with His people, and persecution could not prevail to silence their testimony.
Many were driven across the ocean to America, and here laid the foundations of civil and religious
liberty which have been the bulwark and glory of this country.

Again, as in apostolic days, persecution turned out to the furtherance of the gospel. In a
loathsome dungeon crowded with profligates and felons, John Bunyan breathed the very atmosphere
of heaven; and there he wrote his wonderful allegory of the pilgrim’s journey from the land
of destruction to the celestial city. For over two hundred years that voice from Bedford jail
has spoken with thrilling power to the hearts of men. Bunyan’s “Pilgrim’s Progress” and “Grace
Abounding to the Chief of Sinners” have guided many feet into the path of life.

Baxter, Flavel, Alleine, and other men of talent, education, and deep Christian experience,
stood up in valiant defense of the faith which was once delivered to the saints. The work accomplished
by these men, proscribed and outlawed by the rulers of this world, can never perish. Flavel’s
“Fountain of Life” and “Method of Grace” have taught thousands how to commit the keeping of
their souls to Christ. Baxter’s “Reformed Pastor” has proved a blessing to many who desire
a revival of the work of God, and his “Saints’ Everlasting Rest” has done its work in leading
souls to the “rest that remaineth for the people of God.”

A hundred years later, in a day of great spiritual darkness, Whitefield and the Wesleys appeared
as light-bearers for God. Under the rule of the established church, the people of England had
lapsed into a state of religious declension hardly to be distinguished from heathenism. Natural
religion was the favorite study of the clergy, and included most of their theology. The higher
classes sneered at piety, and prided themselves on being above what they called its fanaticism.
The lower classes were grossly ignorant, and abandoned to vice, while the church had no courage
or faith any longer to support the downfallen cause of truth.

The great doctrine of justification by faith, so clearly taught by Luther, had been almost
wholly lost sight of; and the Romish principle of trusting to good works for salvation, had
taken its place. Whitefield and the Wesleys, who were members of the established church, were
sincere seekers for the favor of God, and this they had been taught was to be secured by a
virtuous life and an observance of the ordinances of religion.

When Charles Wesley at one time fell ill, and anticipated that death was approaching, he was
asked upon what he rested his hope of eternal life. His answer was, “I have used my best endeavors
to serve God.” As the friend who had put the question seemed not to be fully satisfied with
his answer, Wesley thought, “What! are not my endeavors a sufficient ground of hope? Would
he rob me of my endeavors? I have nothing else to trust to.”(369) Such was the dense darkness
that had settled down on the church, hiding the atonement, robbing Christ of His glory, and
turning the minds of men from their only hope of salvation,—the blood of the crucified Redeemer.

Wesley and his associates were led to see that true religion is seated in the heart, and that
God’s law extends to the thoughts as well as to the words and actions. Convinced of the necessity
of holiness of heart, as well as correctness of outward deportment, they set out in earnest
upon a new life. By the most diligent and prayerful efforts they endeavored to subdue the evils
of the natural heart. They lived a life of self-denial, charity, and humiliation, observing
with great rigor and exactness every measure which they thought could be helpful to them in
obtaining what they most desired,—that holiness which could secure the favor of God. But they
did not obtain the object which they sought. In vain were their endeavors to free themselves
from the condemnation of sin or to break its power. It was the same struggle which Luther had
experienced in his cell at Erfurt. It was the same question which had tortured his soul,—“How
should man be just before God?”(370)

The fires of divine truth, well-nigh extinguished upon the altars of Protestantism, were to
be rekindled from the ancient torch handed down the ages by the Bohemian Christians. After
the Reformation, Protestantism in Bohemia had been trampled out by the hordes of Rome. All
who refused to renounce the truth were forced to flee. Some of these, finding refuge in Saxony,
there maintained the ancient faith. It was from the descendants of these Christians that light
came to Wesley and his associates.

John and Charles Wesley, after being ordained to the ministry, were sent on a mission to America.
On board the ship was a company of Moravians. Violent storms were encountered on the passage,
and John Wesley, brought face to face with death, felt that he had not the assurance of peace
with God. The Germans, on the contrary, manifested a calmness and trust to which he was a stranger.

“I had long before,” he says, “observed the great seriousness of their behavior. Of their humility
they had given a continual proof, by performing those servile offices for the other passengers
which none of the English would undertake; for which they desired and would receive no pay,
saying it was good for their proud hearts, and their loving Saviour had done more for them.
And every day had given them occasion of showing a meekness which no injury could move. If
they were pushed, struck, or thrown down, they rose again and went away; but no complaint was
found in their mouth. There was now an opportunity of trying whether they were delivered from
the spirit of fear, as well as from that of pride, anger, and revenge. In the midst of the
psalm wherewith their service began, the sea broke over, split the mainsail in pieces, covered
the ship, and poured in between the decks as if the great deep had already swallowed us up.
A terrible screaming began among the English. The Germans calmly sung on. I asked one of them
afterward, ‘Were you not afraid?’ He answered, ‘I thank God, no,’ I asked, ‘But were not your
women and children afraid?’ He replied mildly, ‘No; our women and children are not afraid to
die.’ ”(371)

Upon arriving in Savannah, Wesley for a short time abode with the Moravians, and was deeply
impressed with their Christian deportment. Of one of their religious services, in striking
contrast to the lifeless formalism of the Church of England, he wrote: “The great simplicity
as well as solemnity of the whole almost made me forget the seventeen hundred years between,
and imagine myself in one of those assemblies where form and state were not; but Paul, the
tent-maker, or Peter, the fisherman, presided; yet with the demonstration of the Spirit and
of power.”(372)

On his return to England, Wesley, under the instruction of a Moravian preacher, arrived at
a clearer understanding of Bible faith. He was convinced that he must renounce all dependence
upon his own works for salvation, and must trust wholly to the “Lamb of God that taketh away
the sin of the world.” At a meeting of the Moravian society in London, a statement was read
from Luther, describing the change which the Spirit of God works in the heart of the believer.
As Wesley listened, faith was kindled in his soul. “I felt my heart strangely warmed,” he says.
“I felt I did trust in Christ, Christ alone, for salvation: and an assurance was given me,
that He had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin and death.”(373)

Through long years of wearisome and comfortless striving,—years of rigorous self-denial, of
reproach and humiliation,—Wesley had steadfastly adhered to his one purpose of seeking God.
Now he had found Him; and he found that the grace which he had toiled to win by prayers and
fasts, by almsdeeds and self-abnegation, was a gift, “without money, and without price.”

Once established in the faith of Christ, his whole soul burned with the desire to spread everywhere
a knowledge of the glorious gospel of God’s free grace. “I look upon all the world as my parish,”
he said; “in whatever part of it I am, I judge it meet, right, and my bounden duty, to declare
unto all that are willing to hear, the glad tidings of salvation.”(374)

He continued his strict and self-denying life, not now as the ground, but the result of faith;
not the root, but the fruit of holiness. The grace of God in Christ is the foundation of the
Christian’s hope, and that grace will be manifested in obedience. Wesley’s life was devoted
to the preaching of the great truths which he had received,—justification through faith in
the atoning blood of Christ, and the renewing power of the Holy Spirit upon the heart, bringing
forth fruit in a life conformed to the example of Christ.

Whitefield and the Wesleys had been prepared for their work by long and sharp personal convictions
of their own lost condition; and that they might be able to endure hardness as good soldiers
of Christ, they had been subjected to the fiery ordeal of scorn, derision, and persecution,
both in the university and as they were entering the ministry. They and a few others who sympathized
with them were contemptuously called Methodists by their ungodly fellow-students,—a name which
is at the present time regarded as honorable by one of the largest denominations in England
and America.

As members of the Church of England, they were strongly attached to her forms of worship, but
the Lord had presented before them in His word a higher standard. The Holy Spirit urged them
to preach Christ and Him crucified. The power of the Highest attended their labors. Thousands
were convicted and truly converted. It was necessary that these sheep be protected from ravening
wolves. Wesley had no thought of forming a new denomination, but he organized them under what
was called the Methodist Connection.

Mysterious and trying was the opposition which these preachers encountered from the established
church; yet God, in His wisdom, had overruled events to cause the reform to begin within the
church itself. Had it come wholly from without, it would not have penetrated where it was so
much needed. But as the revival preachers were churchmen, and labored within the pale of the
church wherever they could find opportunity, the truth had an entrance where the doors would
otherwise have remained closed. Some of the clergy were roused from their moral stupor, and
became zealous preachers in their own parishes. Churches that had been petrified by formalism
were quickened into life.

In Wesley’s time, as in all ages of the church’s history, men of different gifts performed
their appointed work. They did not harmonize upon every point of doctrine, but all were moved
by the Spirit of God, and united in the absorbing aim to win souls to Christ. The differences
between Whitefield and the Wesleys threatened at one time to create alienation; but as they
learned meekness in the school of Christ, mutual forbearance and charity reconciled them. They
had no time to dispute, while error and iniquity were teeming everywhere, and sinners were
going down to ruin.

The servants of God trod a rugged path. Men of influence and learning employed their powers
against them. After a time many of the clergy manifested determined hostility, and the doors
of the churches were closed against a pure faith and those who proclaimed it. The course of
the clergy in denouncing them from the pulpit, aroused the elements of darkness, ignorance,
and iniquity. Again and again did John Wesley escape death by a miracle of God’s mercy. When
the rage of the mob was excited against him, and there seemed no way of escape, an angel in
human form came to his side, the mob fell back, and the servant of Christ passed in safety
from the place of danger.

Of his deliverance from the enraged mob on one of these occasions, Wesley said: “Many endeavored
to throw me down while we were going down hill on a slippery path to the town; as well judging
that if I was once on the ground, I should hardly rise any more. But I made no stumble at all,
nor the least slip, till I was entirely out of their hands.... Although many strove to lay
hold on my collar or clothes, to pull me down, they could not fasten at all: only one got fast
hold of the flap of my waistcoat, which was soon left in his hand; the other flap, in the pocket
of which was a bank-note, was torn but half off.... A lusty man just behind, struck at me several
times, with a large oaken stick; with which if he had struck me once on the back part of my
head, it would have saved him all further trouble. But every time the blow was turned aside,
I know not how; for I could not move to the right hand or left.... Another came rushing through
the press, and raising his arm to strike, on a sudden let it drop, and only stroked my head,
saying, ‘What soft hair he has!’ ... The very first men whose hearts were turned were the heroes
of the town, the captains of the rabble on all occasions, one of them having been a prize-fighter
at the bear-gardens....

“By how gentle degrees does God prepare us for His will! Two years ago, a piece of brick grazed
my shoulders. It was a year after that the stone struck me between the eyes. Last month I received
one blow, and this evening two, one before we came into the town, and one after we were gone
out; but both were as nothing: for though one man struck me on the breast with all his might,
and the other on the mouth with such a force that the blood gushed out immediately, I felt
no more pain from either of the blows than if they had touched me with a straw.”(375)

The Methodists of those early days—people as well as preachers—endured ridicule and persecution,
alike from church-members and from the openly irreligious who were inflamed by their misrepresentations.
They were arraigned before courts of justice—such only in name, for justice was rare in the
courts of that time. Often they suffered violence from their persecutors. Mobs went from house
to house, destroying furniture and goods, plundering whatever they chose, and brutally abusing
men, women, and children. In some instances, public notices were posted, calling upon those
who desired to assist in breaking the windows and robbing the houses of the Methodists, to
assemble at a given time and place. These open violations of both human and divine law were
allowed to pass without a reprimand. A systematic persecution was carried on against a people
whose only fault was that of seeking to turn the feet of sinners from the path of destruction
to the path of holiness.

Said John Wesley, referring to the charges against himself and his associates: “Some allege
that the doctrines of these men are false, erroneous, and enthusiastic; that they are new and
unheard-of till of late; that they are Quakerism, fanaticism, popery. This whole pretense has
been already cut up by the roots, it having been shown at large that every branch of this doctrine
is the plain doctrine of Scripture interpreted by our own church. Therefore it cannot be either
false or erroneous, provided the Scripture be true.” “Others allege, ‘Their doctrine is too
strict; they make the way to heaven too narrow.’ And this is in truth the original objection,
(as it was almost the only one for some time,) and is secretly at the bottom of a thousand
more, which appear in various forms. But do they make the way to heaven any narrower than our
Lord and His apostles made it? Is their doctrine stricter than that of the Bible? And who can
be one jot less strict without corrupting the word of God? Can any steward of the mysteries
of God be found faithful if he change any part of that sacred depositum? No. He can abate nothing,
he can soften nothing; he is constrained to declare to all men, ‘I may not bring down the Scripture
to your taste. You must come up to it, or perish forever.’ This is the real ground of that
other popular cry concerning ‘the uncharitableness of these men.’ Uncharitable, are they? In
what respect? Do they not feed the hungry and clothe the naked? ‘No; that is not the thing:
they are not wanting in this: but they are so uncharitable in judging! they think none can
be saved but those of their own way.’ ”(376)

The spiritual declension which had been manifest in England just before the time of Wesley,
was in great degree the result of Antinomian teaching. Many affirmed that Christ had abolished
the moral law, and that Christians are therefore under no obligation to observe it; that a
believer is freed from the “bondage of good works.” Others, though admitting the perpetuity
of the law, declared that it was unnecessary for ministers to exhort the people to obedience
of its precepts, since those whom God had elected to salvation would, “by the irresistible
impulse of divine grace, be led to the practice of piety and virtue,” while those who were
doomed to eternal reprobation “did not have power to obey the divine law.”

Others, also holding that “the elect cannot fall from grace nor forfeit the divine favor,”
arrived at the still more hideous conclusion that “the wicked actions they commit are not really
sinful, nor to be considered as instances of their violation of the divine law, and that consequently
they have no occasion either to confess their sins or to break them off by repentance.”(377)
Therefore, they declared that even one of the vilest of sins, “considered universally an enormous
violation of the divine law, is not a sin in the sight of God,” if committed by one of the
elect, “because it is one of the essential and distinctive characteristics of the elect, that
they cannot do anything that is either displeasing to God or prohibited by the law.”

These monstrous doctrines are essentially the same as the later teaching of popular educators
and theologians,—that there is no unchangeable divine law as the standard of right, but that
the standard of morality is indicated by society itself, and has constantly been subject to
change. All these ideas are inspired by the same master-spirit,—by him who, even among the
sinless inhabitants of heaven, began his work of seeking to break down the righteous restraints
of the law of God.

The doctrine of the divine decrees, unalterably fixing the character of men, had led many to
a virtual rejection of the law of God. Wesley steadfastly opposed the errors of the Antinomian
teachers, and showed that this doctrine which led to Antinomianism was contrary to the Scriptures.
Thus Christ, “the true Light,” “lighteth every man that cometh into the world.”(379) Men fail
of salvation through their own wilful refusal of the gift of life.

In answer to the claim that at the death of Christ the precepts of the decalogue had been abolished
with the ceremonial law, Wesley said: “The moral law, contained in the ten commandments and
enforced by the prophets, He did not take away. It was not the design of His coming to revoke
any part of this. This is a law which never can be broken, which ‘stands fast as the faithful
witness in heaven.’ ... This was from the beginning of the world, being ‘written not on tables
of stone,’ but on the hearts of all the children of men, when they came out of the hands of
the Creator. And however the letters once wrote by the finger of God are now in a great measure
defaced by sin, yet can they not wholly be blotted out, while we have any consciousness of
good and evil. Every part of this law must remain in force upon all mankind, and in all ages;
as not depending either on time or place, or any other circumstances liable to change, but
on the nature of God, and the nature of man, and their unchangeable relation to each other.

“ ‘I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.’... Without question, His meaning in this place
is (consistently with all that goes before and follows after),—I am come to establish it in
its fulness, in spite of all the glosses of men: I am come to place in a full and clear view
whatsoever was dark or obscure therein: I am come to declare the true and full import of every
part of it; to show the length and breadth, the entire extent, of every commandment contained
therein, and the height and depth, the inconceivable purity and spirituality of it in all its
branches.”(380)

Wesley declared the perfect harmony of the law and the gospel. “There is, therefore, the closest
connection that can be conceived, between the law and the gospel. On the one hand, the law
continually makes way for, and points us to, the gospel; on the other, the gospel continually
leads us to a more exact fulfilling of the law. The law, for instance, requires us to love
God, to love our neighbor, to be meek, humble, or holy. We feel that we are not sufficient
for these things; yea, that ‘with man this is impossible:’ but we see a promise of God to give
us that love, and to make us humble, meek, and holy: we lay hold of this gospel, of these glad
tidings; it is done unto us according to our faith; and ‘the righteousness of the law is fulfilled
in us,’ through faith which is in Christ Jesus....

“In the highest rank of the enemies of the gospel of Christ,” said Wesley, “are they who openly
and explicitly ‘judge the law’ itself, and ‘speak evil of the law;’ who teach men to break
(to dissolve, to loose, to untie the obligation of) not one only, whether of the least or of
the greatest, but all the commandments at a stroke.... The most surprising of all the circumstances
that attend this strong delusion, is that they who are given up to it, really believe that
they honor Christ by overthrowing His law, and that they are magnifying His office while they
are destroying His doctrine! Yea, they honor Him just as Judas did when he said, ‘Hail, Master,
and kissed Him.’ And He may as justly say to every one of them, ‘Betrayest thou the Son of
man with a kiss?’ It is no other than betraying Him with a kiss, to talk of His blood, and
take away His crown; to set light by any part of His law, under pretense of advancing His gospel.
Nor indeed can any one escape this charge, who preaches faith in any such a manner as either
directly or indirectly tends to set aside any branch of obedience: who preaches Christ so as
to disannul, or weaken in any wise, the least of the commandments of God.”(381)

To those who urged that “the preaching of the gospel answers all the ends of the law,” Wesley
replied: “This we utterly deny. It does not answer the very first end of the law, namely, the
convincing men of sin, the awakening those who are still asleep on the brink of hell.” The
apostle Paul declares that “by the law is the knowledge of sin;” “and not until man is convicted
of sin, will he truly feel his need of the atoning blood of Christ.... ‘They that be whole,’
as our Lord Himself observes, ‘need not a physician, but they that are sick.’ It is absurd,
therefore, to offer a physician to them that are whole, or that at least imagine themselves
so to be. You are first to convince them that they are sick; otherwise they will not thank
you for your labor. It is equally absurd to offer Christ to them whose heart is whole, having
never yet been broken.”(382)

Thus while preaching the gospel of the grace of God, Wesley, like his Master, sought to “magnify
the law, and make it honorable.” Faithfully did he accomplish the work given him of God, and
glorious were the results which he was permitted to behold. At the close of his long life of
more than fourscore years—above half a century spent in itinerant ministry—his avowed adherents
numbered more than half a million souls. But the multitude that through his labors had been
lifted from the ruin and degradation of sin to a higher and a purer life, and the number who
by his teaching had attained to a deeper and richer experience, will never be known till the
whole family of the redeemed shall be gathered into the kingdom of God. His life presents a
lesson of priceless worth to every Christian. Would that the faith and humility, the untiring
zeal, self-sacrifice, and devotion of this servant of Christ, might be reflected in the churches
of to-day!

15. THE BIBLE AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.

In the sixteenth century the Reformation, presenting an open Bible to the people, had sought
admission to all the countries of Europe. Some nations welcomed it with gladness, as a messenger
of Heaven. In other lands, the papacy succeeded to a great extent in preventing its entrance;
and the light of Bible knowledge, with its elevating influences, was almost wholly excluded.
In one country, though the light found entrance, it was not comprehended by the darkness. For
centuries, truth and error struggled for the mastery. At last the evil triumphed, and the truth
of Heaven was thrust out. The restraint of God’s Spirit was removed from a people that had
despised the gift of His grace. Evil was permitted to come to maturity. And all the world saw
the fruit of wilful rejection of the light.

The war against the Bible, carried forward for so many centuries in France, culminated in the
scenes of the Revolution. That terrible outbreaking was but the legitimate result of Rome’s
suppression of the Scriptures.(384) It presented the most striking illustration which the world
has ever witnessed, of the working out of the papal policy,—an illustration of the results
to which for more than a thousand years the teaching of the Roman Church had been tending.
The 1260 years of papal supremacy began in A.D. 538, and would therefore terminate in 1798.(386)
At that time a French army entered Rome, and made the pope a prisoner, and he died in exile.
Though a new pope was soon afterward elected, the papal hierarchy has never since been able
to wield the power which it before possessed.

The persecution of the church did not continue throughout the entire period of the 1260 years.
God in mercy to His people cut short the time of their fiery trial. In foretelling the “great
tribulation” to befall the church, the Saviour said, “Except those days should be shortened,
there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect’s sake those days shall be shortened.”(387)
Through the influence of the Reformation, the persecution was brought to an end prior to 1798.

Concerning the two witnesses, the prophet declares further, “These are the two olive-trees,
and the two candle-sticks standing before the God of the earth.” “Thy word,” said the psalmist,
“is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.”(388) The two witnesses represent the Scriptures
of the Old and the New Testament. Both are important testimonies to the origin and perpetuity
of the law of God. Both are witnesses also to the plan of salvation. The types, sacrifices,
and prophecies of the Old Testament point forward to a Saviour to come. The Gospels and Epistles
of the New Testament tell of a Saviour who has come in the exact manner foretold by type and
prophecy.

“They shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.” During
the greater part of this period, God’s witnesses remained in a state of obscurity. The papal
power sought to hide from the people the Word of truth, and set before them false witnesses
to contradict its testimony.(389) When the Bible was proscribed by religious and secular authority;
when its testimony was perverted, and every effort made that men and demons could invent to
turn the minds of the people from it; when those who dared proclaim its sacred truths were
hunted, betrayed, tortured, buried in dungeon cells, martyred for their faith, or compelled
to flee to mountain fastnesses, and to dens and caves of the earth,—then the faithful witnesses
prophesied in sackcloth. Yet they continued their testimony throughout the entire period of
1260 years. In the darkest times there were faithful men who loved God’s word, and were jealous
for His honor. To these loyal servants were given wisdom, power, and authority to declare His
truth during the whole of this time. These solemn denunciations apply to all who by their influence
lead men to regard lightly the law of God. They should cause those to fear and tremble who
flippantly declare it a matter of little consequence whether we obey God’s law or not. All
who exalt their own opinions above divine revelation, all who would change the plain meaning
of Scripture to suit their own convenience, or for the sake of conforming to the world, are
taking upon themselves a fearful responsibility. The written word, the law of God, will measure
the character of every man, and condemn all whom this unerring test shall declare wanting.

“When they shall have finished [are finishing] their testimony.” The period when the two witnesses
were to prophesy clothed in sackcloth, ended in 1798. As they were approaching the termination
of their work in obscurity, war was to be made upon them by the power represented as “the beast
that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit.” In many of the nations of Europe the powers that
ruled in church and state had for centuries been controlled by Satan, through the medium of
the papacy. But here is brought to view a new manifestation of satanic power.

It had been Rome’s policy, under a profession of reverence for the Bible, to keep it locked
up in an unknown tongue, and hidden away from the people. Under her rule the witnesses prophesied,
“clothed in sackcloth.” But another power—the beast from the bottomless pit—was to arise to
make open, avowed war upon the word of God.

The “great city” in whose streets the witnesses are slain, and where their dead bodies lie,
“is spiritually Egypt.” Of all nations presented in Bible history, Egypt most boldly denied
the existence of the living God, and resisted His commands. No monarch ever ventured upon more
open and high-handed rebellion against the authority of Heaven than did the king of Egypt.
When the message was brought him by Moses, in the name of the Lord, Pharaoh proudly answered,
“Who is Jehovah, that I should obey His voice to let Israel go? I know not Jehovah, neither
will I let Israel go.”(392) This is atheism; and the nation represented by Egypt would give
voice to a similar denial of the claims of the living God, and would manifest a like spirit
of unbelief and defiance. The “great city” is also compared, “spiritually,” to Sodom. The corruption
of Sodom in breaking the law of God was especially manifested in licentiousness. And this sin
was also to be a pre-eminent characteristic of the nation that should fulfil the specifications
of this scripture.

According to the words of the prophet, then, a little before the year 1798 some power of satanic
origin and character would rise to make war upon the Bible. And in the land where the testimony
of God’s two witnesses should thus be silenced, there would be manifest the atheism of the
Pharaoh and the licentiousness of Sodom.

This prophecy has received a most exact and striking fulfilment in the history of France. Plenty
of blasphemers, plenty of infidels, there have been, and still continue to be, in England,
Germany, Spain, and elsewhere; but France stands apart in the world’s history as the single
state which, by the decree of her Legislative Assembly, pronounced that there was no God, and
of which the entire population of the capital, and a vast majority elsewhere, women as well
as men, danced and sang with joy in accepting the announcement.”(394)

France presented also the characteristic which especially distinguished Sodom. During the Revolution
there was manifest a state of moral debasement and corruption similar to that which brought
destruction upon the cities of the plain. In no land had the spirit of enmity against Christ
been more strikingly displayed. In no country had the truth encountered more bitter and cruel
opposition. In the persecution which France had visited upon the confessors of the gospel,
she had crucified Christ in the person of His disciples.

Century after century the blood of the saints had been shed. While the Waldenses laid down
their lives upon the mountains of Piedmont “for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus
Christ,” similar witness to the truth had been borne by their brethren, the Albigenses of France.
In the days of the Reformation, its disciples had been put to death with horrible tortures.
King and nobles, high-born women and delicate maidens, the pride and chivalry of the nation,
had feasted their eyes upon the agonies of the martyrs of Jesus. The brave Huguenots, battling
for those rights which the human heart holds most sacred, had poured out their blood on many
a hard-fought field. The Protestants were counted as outlaws, a price was set upon their heads,
and they were hunted down like wild beasts.

The “Church in the Desert,” the few descendants of the ancient Christians that still lingered
in France in the eighteenth century, hiding away in the mountains of the south, still cherished
the faith of their fathers. As they ventured to meet by night on mountainside or lonely moor,
they were chased by dragoons, and dragged away to life-long slavery in the galleys. The purest,
the most refined, and the most intelligent of the French, were chained, in horrible torture,
amidst robbers and assassins.(396) Others, more mercifully dealt with, were shot down in cold
blood, as, unarmed and helpless, they fell upon their knees in prayer. Hundreds of aged men,
defenseless women, and innocent children were left dead upon the earth at their place of meeting.
In traversing the mountainside or the forest, where they had been accustomed to assemble, it
was not unusual to find “at every four paces, dead bodies dotting the sward, and corpses hanging
suspended from the trees.” Their country, laid waste with the sword, the axe, the fagot, “was
converted into one vast, gloomy wilderness.” “These atrocities were enacted ... in no dark
age, but in the brilliant era of Louis XIV. Science was then cultivated, letters flourished,
the divines of the court and of the capital were learned and eloquent men, and greatly affected
the graces of meekness and charity.”(397)

But blackest in the black catalogue of crime, most horrible among the fiendish deeds of all
the dreadful centuries, was the St. Bartholomew Massacre. The world still recalls with shuddering
horror the scenes of that most cowardly and cruel onslaught. The king of France, urged on by
Romish priests and prelates, lent his sanction to the dreadful work. A bell, tolling at dead
of night, was a signal for the slaughter. Protestants by thousands, sleeping quietly in their
homes, trusting to the plighted honor of their king, were dragged forth without a warning,
and murdered in cold blood.

As Christ was the invisible leader of His people from Egyptian bondage, so was Satan the unseen
leader of his subjects in this horrible work of multiplying martyrs. For seven days the massacre
was continued in Paris, the first three with inconceivable fury. And it was not confined to
the city itself, but by special order of the king, was extended to all the provinces and towns
where Protestants were found. Neither age nor sex was respected. Neither the innocent babe
nor the man of gray hairs was spared. Noble and peasant, old and young, mother and child, were
cut down together. Throughout France the butchery continued for two months. Seventy thousand
of the very flower of the nation perished.

“When the news of the massacre reached Rome, the exultation among the clergy knew no bounds.
The cardinal of Lorraine rewarded the messenger with a thousand crowns; the cannon of St. Angelo
thundered forth a joyous salute; the bells rang out from every steeple; bonfires turned night
into day; and Gregory XIII., attended by the cardinals and other ecclesiastical dignitaries,
went in long procession to the church of St. Louis, where the cardinal of Lorraine chanted
a Te Deum.... A medal was struck to commemorate the massacre, and in the Vatican may still
be seen three frescoes of Vasari, describing the attack upon the admiral, the king in council
plotting the massacre, and the massacre itself. Gregory sent Charles the Golden Rose; and four
months after the massacre, ... he listened complacently to the sermon of a French priest, ...
who spoke of ‘that day so full of happiness and joy, when the most holy father received the
news, and went in solemn state to render thanks to God and St. Louis.’ ”(398)

The same master-spirit that urged on the St. Bartholomew Massacre led also in the scenes of
the Revolution. Jesus Christ was declared to be an impostor, and the rallying cry of the French
infidels was, “Crush the Wretch,” meaning Christ. Heaven-daring blasphemy and abominable wickedness
went hand in hand, and the basest of men, the most abandoned monsters of cruelty and vice,
were most highly exalted. In all this, supreme homage was paid to Satan; while Christ, in His
characteristics of truth, purity, and unselfish love, was crucified.

“The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall
overcome them, and kill them.” The atheistical power that ruled in France during the Revolution
and the Reign of Terror, did wage such a war against God and His holy word as the world had
never witnessed. The worship of the Deity was abolished by the National Assembly. Bibles were
collected and publicly burned with every possible manifestation of scorn.

The law of God was trampled under foot. The institutions of the Bible were abolished. The weekly
rest-day was set aside, and in its stead every tenth day was devoted to reveling and blasphemy.
Baptism and the communion were prohibited. And announcements posted conspicuously over the
burial-places declared death to be an eternal sleep.

The fear of God was said to be so far from the beginning of wisdom that it was the beginning
of folly. All religious worship was prohibited, except that of liberty and the country. The
Word of truth lay dead in her streets, and those who hated the restrictions and requirements
of God’s law were jubilant. Men publicly defied the King of heaven. Like the sinners of old,
they cried, “How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the Most High?”(400)

With blasphemous boldness almost beyond belief, one of the priests of the new order said: “God,
if You exist, avenge Your injured name. I bid You defiance! You remain silent; You dare not
launch Your thunders. Who after this will believe in Your existence?”(401) What an echo is
this of the Pharaoh’s demand: “Who is Jehovah, that I should obey His voice?” “I know not Jehovah!”

“The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God.”(402) And the Lord declares concerning the
perverters of the truth, “Their folly shall be manifest unto all.”(403) After France had renounced
the worship of the living God, “the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity,” it was only
a little time till she descended to degrading idolatry, by the worship of the Goddess of Reason,
in the person of a profligate woman. And this in the representative assembly of the nation,
and by its highest civil and legislative authorities! Fanaticism has given way to reason. Its
bleared eyes could not endure the brilliancy of the light. This day an immense concourse has
assembled beneath those gothic vaults, which, for the first time, re-echoed the truth. There
the French have celebrated the only true worship,—that of Liberty, that of Reason. There we
have formed wishes for the prosperity of the arms of the Republic. On one occasion “the Popular
Society of the Museum” entered the hall of the municipality, exclaiming, “Vive la Raison!”
and carrying on the top of a pole the half-burned remains of several books, among others breviaries,
missals, and the Old and New Testaments, which “expiated in a great fire,” said the president,
“all the fooleries which they have made the human race commit.”(407)

It was popery that had begun the work which atheism was completing. The policy of Rome had
wrought out those conditions, social, political, and religious, that were hurrying France on
to ruin. Writers, in referring to the horrors of the Revolution, say that these excesses are
to be charged upon the throne and the church.(408) In strict justice they are to be charged
upon the church. Popery had poisoned the minds of kings against the Reformation, as an enemy
to the crown, an element of discord that would be fatal to the peace and harmony of the nation.
It was the genius of Rome that by this means inspired the direst cruelty and the most galling
oppression which proceeded from the throne.

The spirit of liberty went with the Bible. Wherever the gospel was received, the minds of the
people were awakened. They began to cast off the shackles that had held them bond-slaves of
ignorance, vice, and superstition. They began to think and act as men. Monarchs saw it, and
trembled for their despotism.

Rome was not slow to inflame their jealous fears. Said the pope to the regent of France in
1525: “This mania [Protestantism] will not only confound and destroy religion, but all principalities,
nobility, laws, orders, and ranks besides.”(409) A few years later a papal nuncio warned the
king: “Sire, be not deceived. The Protestants will upset all civil as well as religious order....
The throne is in as much danger as the altar.... The introduction of a new religion must necessarily
introduce a new government.”(410) And theologians appealed to the prejudices of the people
by declaring that the Protestant doctrine “entices men away to novelties and folly; it robs
the king of the devoted affection of his subjects, and devastates both church and state.” Thus
Rome succeeded in arraying France against the Reformation. “It was to uphold the throne, preserve
the nobles, and maintain the laws, that the sword of persecution was first unsheathed in France.”(411)

Little did the rulers of the land foresee the results of that fateful policy. The teaching
of the Bible would have implanted in the minds and hearts of the people those principles of
justice, temperance, truth, equity, and benevolence which are the very corner-stone of a nation’s
prosperity. “Righteousness exalteth a nation.” Thereby “the throne is established.”(412) “The
work of righteousness shall be peace;” and the effect “quietness and assurance forever.”(413)
He who obeys the divine law will most truly respect and obey the laws of his country. He who
fears God will honor the king in the exercise of all just and legitimate authority. But unhappy
France prohibited the Bible, and banned its disciples. Century after century, men of principle
and integrity, men of intellectual acuteness and moral strength, who had the courage to avow
their convictions, and the faith to suffer for the truth,—for centuries these men toiled as
slaves in the galleys, perished at the stake, or rotted in dungeon cells. Thousands upon thousands
found safety in flight; and this continued for two hundred and fifty years after the opening
of the Reformation.

“Scarcely was there a generation of Frenchmen during that long period that did not witness
the disciples of the gospel fleeing before the insane fury of the persecutor, and carrying
with them the intelligence, the arts, the industry, the order, in which, as a rule, they pre-eminently
excelled, to enrich the lands in which they found an asylum. And in proportion as they replenished
other countries with these good gifts, did they empty their own of them. If all that was now
driven away had been retained in France; if, during these three hundred years, the industrial
skill of the exiles had been cultivating her soil; if, during these three hundred years, their
artistic bent had been improving her manufactures; if, during these three hundred years, their
creative genius and analytic power had been enriching her literature and cultivating her science;
if their wisdom had been guiding her councils, their bravery fighting her battles, their equity
framing her laws, and the religion of the Bible strengthening the intellect and governing the
conscience of her people, what a glory would at this day have encompassed France! What a great,
prosperous, and happy country—a pattern to the nations—would she have been!

“But a blind and inexorable bigotry chased from her soil every teacher of virtue, every champion
of order, every honest defender of the throne; it said to the men who would have made their
country a ‘renown and glory’ in the earth, Choose which you will have, a stake or exile. At
last the ruin of the state was complete; there remained no more conscience to be proscribed;
no more religion to be dragged to the stake; no more patriotism to be chased into banishment.”(414)
And the Revolution, with all its horrors, was the dire result.

“With the flight of the Huguenots a general decline settled upon France. Flourishing manufacturing
cities fell into decay; fertile districts returned to their native wildness; intellectual dulness
and moral declension succeeded a period of unwonted progress. Paris became one vast almshouse,
and it is estimated that, at the breaking out of the Revolution, two hundred thousand paupers
claimed charity from the hands of the king. The Jesuits alone flourished in the decaying nation,
and ruled with dreadful tyranny over churches and schools, the prisons and the galleys.”

The gospel would have brought to France the solution of those political and social problems
that baffled the skill of her clergy, her king, and her legislators, and finally plunged the
nation into anarchy and ruin. But under the domination of Rome the people had lost the Saviour’s
blessed lessons of self-sacrifice and unselfish love. They had been led away from the practice
of self-denial for the good of others. The rich had found no rebuke for their oppression of
the poor, the poor no help for their servitude and degradation. The selfishness of the wealthy
and powerful grew more and more apparent and oppressive. For centuries the greed and profligacy
of the noble resulted in grinding extortion toward the peasant. The rich wronged the poor,
and the poor hated the rich.

In many provinces the estates were held by the nobles, and the laboring classes were only tenants;
they were at the mercy of their landlords, and were forced to submit to their exorbitant demands.
The burden of supporting both the church and the state fell upon the middle and lower classes,
who were heavily taxed by the civil authorities and by the clergy. “The pleasure of the nobles
was considered the supreme law; the farmers and the peasants might starve, for aught their
oppressors cared.... The people were compelled at every turn to consult the exclusive interest
of the landlord. The lives of the agricultural laborers were lives of incessant work and unrelieved
misery; their complaints, if they ever dared to complain, were treated with insolent contempt.
The courts of justice would always listen to a noble as against a peasant; bribes were notoriously
accepted by the judges; and the merest caprice of the aristocracy had the force of law, by
virtue of this system of universal corruption. Of the taxes wrung from the commonalty, by the
secular magnates on the one hand, and the clergy on the other, not half ever found its way
into the royal or episcopal treasury; the rest was squandered in profligate self-indulgence.
And the men who thus impoverished their fellow-subjects were themselves exempt from taxation,
and entitled by law or custom to all the appointments of the state. The privileged classes
numbered a hundred and fifty thousand, and for their gratification millions were condemned
to hopeless and degrading lives.”(415)

The court was given up to luxury and profligacy. There was little confidence existing between
the people and the rulers. Suspicion fastened upon all the measures of the government, as designing
and selfish. For more than half a century before the time of the Revolution, the throne was
occupied by Louis XV., who, even in those evil times, was distinguished as an indolent, frivolous,
and sensual monarch. With a depraved and cruel aristocracy and an impoverished and ignorant
lower class, the state financially embarrassed, and the people exasperated, it needed no prophet’s
eye to foresee a terrible impending outbreak. To the warnings of his counselors the king was
accustomed to reply, “Try to make things go on as long as I am likely to live; after my death
it may be as it will.” It was in vain that the necessity of reform was urged. He saw the evils,
but had neither the courage nor the power to meet them. The doom awaiting France was but too
truly pictured in his indolent and selfish answer,—“After me, the deluge!”

By working upon the jealousy of the kings and the ruling classes, Rome had influenced them
to keep the people in bondage, well knowing that the state would thus be weakened, and purposing
by this means to fasten both rulers and people in her thrall. With far-sighted policy she perceived
that in order to enslave men effectually, the shackles must be bound upon their souls; that
the surest way to prevent them from escaping their bondage was to render them incapable of
freedom. A thousandfold more terrible than the physical suffering which resulted from her policy,
was the moral degradation. Deprived of the Bible, and abandoned to the teachings of bigotry
and selfishness, the people were shrouded in ignorance and superstition, and sunken in vice,
so that they were wholly unfitted for self-government.

But the outworking of all this was widely different from what Rome had purposed. Instead of
holding the masses in a blind submission to her dogmas, her work resulted in making them infidels
and revolutionists. Romanism they despised as priestcraft. They beheld the clergy as a party
to their oppression. The only god they knew was the god of Rome; her teaching was their only
religion. They regarded her greed and cruelty as the legitimate fruit of the Bible, and they
would have none of it.

Rome had misrepresented the character of God, and perverted His requirements, and now men rejected
both the Bible and its Author. She had required a blind faith in her dogmas, under the pretended
sanction of the Scriptures. In the reaction, Voltaire and his associates cast aside God’s word
altogether, and spread everywhere the poison of infidelity. Rome had ground down the people
under her iron heel; and now the masses, degraded and brutalized, in their recoil from her
tyranny, cast off all restraint. Enraged at the glittering cheat to which they had so long
paid homage, they rejected truth and falsehood together; and mistaking license for liberty,
the slaves of vice exulted in their imagined freedom.

At the opening of the Revolution, by a concession of the king, the people were granted a representation
exceeding that of the nobles and the clergy combined. Thus the balance of power was in their
hands; but they were not prepared to use it with wisdom and moderation. Eager to redress the
wrongs they had suffered, they determined to undertake the reconstruction of society. An outraged
populace, whose minds were filled with bitter and long-treasured memories of wrong, resolved
to revolutionize the state of misery that had grown unbearable, and to revenge themselves upon
those whom they regarded as the authors of their sufferings. The oppressed wrought out the
lesson they had learned under tyranny, and became the oppressors of those who had oppressed them.

Unhappy France reaped in blood the harvest she had sown. Terrible were the results of her submission
to the controlling power of Rome. Where France, under the influence of Romanism, had set up
the first stake at the opening of the Reformation, there the Revolution set up its first guillotine.
On the very spot where the first martyrs to the Protestant faith were burned in the sixteenth
century, the first victims were guillotined in the eighteenth. In repelling the gospel, which
would have brought her healing, France had opened the door to infidelity and ruin. When the
restraints of God’s law were cast aside, it was found that the laws of man were inadequate
to hold in check the powerful tides of human passion; and the nation swept on to revolt and
anarchy. The war against the Bible inaugurated an era which stands in the world’s history as
“The Reign of Terror.” Peace and happiness were banished from the homes and hearts of men.
No one was secure. He who triumphed to-day was suspected, condemned, to-morrow. Violence and
lust held undisputed sway.

King, clergy, and nobles were compelled to submit to the atrocities of an excited and maddened
people. Their thirst for vengeance was only stimulated by the execution of the king; and those
who had decreed his death, soon followed him to the scaffold. A general slaughter of all suspected
of hostility to the Revolution was determined. The prisons were crowded, at one time containing
more than two hundred thousand captives. The cities of the kingdom were filled with scenes
of horror. One party of revolutionists was against another party, and France became a vast
field for contending masses, swayed by the fury of their passions. “In Paris one tumult succeeded
another, and the citizens were divided into a medley of factions, that seemed intent on nothing
but mutual extermination.” And to add to the general misery, the nation became involved in
a prolonged and devastating war with the great powers of Europe. “The country was nearly bankrupt,
the armies were clamoring for arrears of pay, the Parisians were starving, the provinces were
laid waste by brigands, and civilization was almost extinguished in anarchy and license.”

All too well the people had learned the lessons of cruelty and torture which Rome had so diligently
taught. A day of retribution at last had come. It was not now the disciples of Jesus that were
thrust into dungeons and dragged to the stake. Long ago these had perished or been driven into
exile. Unsparing Rome now felt the deadly power of those whom she had trained to delight in
deeds of blood. “The example of persecution which the clergy of France had exhibited for so
many ages, was now retorted upon them with signal vigor. The scaffolds ran red with the blood
of the priests. The galleys and the prisons, once crowded with Huguenots, were now filled with
their persecutors.

All this was as Satan would have it. This was what for ages he had been working to secure.
His policy is deception from first to last, and his steadfast purpose is to bring woe and wretchedness
upon men, to deface and defile the workmanship of God, to mar the divine purposes of benevolence
and love, and thus cause grief in heaven. Then by his deceptive arts he blinds the minds of
men, and leads them to throw back the blame of his work upon God, as if all this misery were
the result of the Creator’s plan. In like manner, when those who have been degraded and brutalized
through his cruel power achieve their freedom, he urges them on to excesses and atrocities.
Then this picture of unbridled license is pointed out by tyrants and oppressors as an illustration
of the results of liberty.

When error in one garb has been detected, Satan only masks it in a different disguise, and
multitudes receive it as eagerly as at the first. When the people found Romanism to be a deception,
and he could not through this agency lead them to transgression of God’s law, he urged them
to regard all religion as a cheat, and the Bible a fable; and casting aside the divine statutes,
they gave themselves up to unbridled iniquity.

The fatal error which wrought such woe for the inhabitants of France was the ignoring of this
one great truth: that true freedom lies within the proscriptions of the law of God. “O that
thou hadst hearkened to My commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness
as the waves of the sea.” “There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.” “But whoso
hearkeneth unto Me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.”(418)

Atheists, infidels, and apostates oppose and denounce God’s law; but the results of their influence
prove that the well-being of man is bound up with his obedience of the divine statutes. Those
who will not read the lesson from the book of God, are bidden to read it in the history of nations.

When Satan wrought through the Roman Church to lead men away from obedience, his agency was
concealed, and his work was so disguised that the degradation and misery which resulted were
not seen to be the fruit of transgression. And his power was so far counteracted by the working
of the Spirit of God, that his purposes were prevented from reaching their full fruition. The
people did not trace the effect to its cause, and discover the source of their miseries. But
in the Revolution, the law of God was openly set aside by the National Council. And in the
Reign of Terror which followed, the working of cause and effect could be seen by all.

When France publicly rejected God and set aside the Bible, wicked men and spirits of darkness
exulted in their attainment of the object so long desired,—a kingdom free from the restraints
of the law of God. Though not visited at once with judgments, the wickedness of men was nevertheless
surely working out their doom. Centuries of apostasy and crime had been treasuring up wrath
against the day of retribution; and when their iniquity was full, the despisers of God learned
too late that it is a fearful thing to have worn out the divine patience. The restraining Spirit
of God, which imposes a check upon the cruel power of Satan, was in a great measure removed,
and he whose only delight is the wretchedness of men, was permitted to work his will. Those
who had chosen the service of rebellion, were left to reap its fruits, until the land was filled
with crimes too horrible for pen to trace. From devastated provinces and ruined cities a terrible
cry was heard,—a cry of bitterest anguish. France was shaken as if by an earthquake. Religion,
law, social order, the family, the state, and the church,—all were smitten down by the impious
hand that had been lifted against the law of God. Truly spake the wise man: “The wicked shall
fall by his own wickedness.” “Though a sinner do evil a hundred times, and his days be prolonged,
yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before Him: but
it shall not be well with the wicked.”(420) “They hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear
of the Lord;” “therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their
own devices.”(421)

God’s faithful witnesses, slain by the blasphemous power that “ascendeth out of the bottomless
pit,” were not long to remain silent. Three years and a half later a resolution rescinding
these decrees, thus granting toleration to the Scriptures, was adopted by the same body. The
world stood aghast at the enormity of guilt which had resulted from a rejection of the Sacred
Oracles, and men recognized the necessity of faith in God and His word as the foundation of
virtue and morality. Saith the Lord, “Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against
whom hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against the Holy One
of Israel.”(423) “Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I will cause them
to know Mine hand and My might; and they shall know that My name is Jehovah.”(424)

Concerning the two witnesses the prophet declares further: “And they heard a great voice from
heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their
enemies beheld them.”(425) Since France made war upon God’s two witnesses, they have been honored
as never before. In 1804 the British and Foreign Bible Society was organized. This was followed
by similar organizations, with numerous branches, upon the continent of Europe. In 1816 the
American Bible Society was founded. When the British Society was formed, the Bible had been
printed and circulated in fifty tongues. It has since been translated into more than four hundred
languages and dialects.(426)

For the fifty years preceding 1792, little attention was given to the work of foreign missions.
No new societies were formed, and there were but few churches that made any effort for the
spread of Christianity in heathen lands. But toward the close of the eighteenth century a great
change took place. Men became dissatisfied with the results of rationalism, and realized the
necessity of divine revelation and experimental religion. From this time the work of foreign
missions attained an unprecedented growth.(427)

The improvements in printing have given an impetus to the work of circulating the Bible. The
increased facilities for communication between different countries, the breaking down of ancient
barriers of prejudice and national exclusiveness, and the loss of secular power by the pontiff
of Rome, have opened the way for the entrance of the word of God. For some years the Bible
has been sold without restraint in the streets of Rome, and it has now been carried to every
part of the habitable globe.

The infidel Voltaire once boastingly said: “I am weary of hearing people repeat that twelve
men established the Christian religion. I will prove that one man may suffice to overthrow
it.” A century has passed since his death. Millions have joined in the war upon the Bible.
But it is so far from being destroyed, that where there were a hundred in Voltaire’s time,
there are now ten thousand, yes, a hundred thousand copies of the Book of God. They stand fast
forever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.”(429) Whatever is built upon the authority
of man will be overthrown; but that which is founded upon the rock of God’s immutable word
shall stand forever.

16. THE PILGRIM FATHERS.

The English Reformers, while renouncing the doctrines of Romanism, had retained many of its
forms. Thus though the authority and the creed of Rome were rejected, not a few of her customs
and ceremonies were incorporated into the worship of the Church of England. It was claimed
that these things were not matters of conscience; that though they were not commanded in Scripture,
and hence were non-essential, yet not being forbidden, they were not intrinsically evil. Their
observance tended to narrow the gulf which separated the reformed churches from Rome, and it
was urged that they would promote the acceptance of the Protestant faith by Romanists.

To the conservative and compromising, these arguments seemed conclusive. But there was another
class that did not so judge. The fact that these customs “tended to bridge over the chasm between
Rome and the Reformation,”(430) was in their view a conclusive argument against retaining them.
They looked upon them as badges of the slavery from which they had been delivered, and to which
they had no disposition to return. They reasoned that God has in His word established the regulations
governing His worship, and that men are not at liberty to add to these or to detract from them.
The very beginning of the great apostasy was in seeking to supplement the authority of God
by that of the church. Rome began by enjoining what God had not forbidden, and she ended by
forbidding what He had explicitly enjoined.

Many earnestly desired to return to the purity and simplicity which characterized the primitive
church. They regarded many of the established customs of the English Church as monuments of
idolatry, and they could not in conscience unite in her worship. But the church, being supported
by the civil authority, would permit no dissent from her forms. Attendance upon her service
was required by law, and unauthorized assemblies for religious worship were prohibited, under
penalty of imprisonment, exile, and death.

At the opening of the seventeenth century the monarch who had just ascended the throne of England
declared his determination to make the Puritans “conform, or ... harry them out of the land,
or else worse.”(431) Hunted, persecuted, and imprisoned, they could discern in the future no
promise of better days, and many yielded to the conviction that for such as would serve God
according to the dictates of their conscience, “England was ceasing forever to be a habitable
place.”(432) They were at last determined to seek refuge in Holland. Difficulties, losses,
and imprisonment were encountered. Their purposes were thwarted, and they were betrayed into
the hands of their enemies. But steadfast perseverance finally conquered, and they found shelter
on the friendly shores of the Dutch Republic.

In their flight they had left their houses, their goods, and their means of livelihood. They
were strangers in a strange land, among a people of different language and customs. They were
forced to resort to new and untried occupations to earn their bread. Middle-aged men, who had
spent their lives in tilling the soil, had now to learn mechanical trades. But they cheerfully
accepted the situation, and lost no time in idleness or repining. Though often pinched with
poverty, they thanked God for the blessings which were still granted them, and found their
joy in unmolested spiritual communion. “They knew they were pilgrims, and looked not much on
those things, but lifted up their eyes to heaven, their dearest country, and quieted their
spirits.”(433)

In the midst of exile and hardship, their love and faith waxed strong. They trusted the Lord’s
promises, and He did not fail them in time of need. His angels were by their side, to encourage
and support them. And when God’s hand seemed pointing them across the sea, to a land where
they might found for themselves a state, and leave to their children the precious heritage
of religious liberty, they went forward, without shrinking, in the path of providence.

God had permitted trials to come upon His people to prepare them for the accomplishment of
His gracious purpose toward them. The church had been brought low, that she might be exalted.
God was about to display His power in her behalf, to give to the world another evidence that
He will not forsake those who trust in Him. He had overruled events to cause the wrath of Satan
and the plots of evil men to advance His glory, and to bring His people to a place of security.
Persecution and exile were opening the way to freedom.

When first constrained to separate from the English Church, the Puritans had joined themselves
together by a solemn covenant, as the Lord’s free people, “to walk together in all His ways
made known or to be made known to them.”(434) Here was the true spirit of reform, the vital
principle of Protestantism. It was with this purpose that the Pilgrims departed from Holland
to find a home in the New World. John Robinson, their pastor, who was providentially prevented
from accompanying them, in his farewell address to the exiles said:

“Brethren, we are now erelong to part asunder, and the Lord knoweth whether I shall live ever
to see your faces more. The Lutherans cannot be drawn to go beyond what Luther saw; ... and
the Calvinists, you see, stick fast where they were left by that great man of God, who yet
saw not all things. This is a misery much to be lamented; for though they were burning and
shining lights in their time, yet they penetrated not into the whole counsel of God, but were
they now living, would be as willing to embrace further light as that which they first received.”(436)

“Remember your church covenant, in which you have agreed to walk in all the ways of the Lord,
made or to be made known unto you. Remember your promise and covenant with God and with one
another, to receive whatever light and truth shall be made known to you from His written word;
but withal, take heed, I beseech you, what you receive for truth, and compare it and weigh
it with other scriptures of truth before you accept it; for it is not possible the Christian
world should come so lately out of such thick antichristian darkness, and that full perfection
of knowledge should break forth at once.”(437)

It was the desire for liberty of conscience that inspired the Pilgrims to brave the perils
of the long journey across the sea, to endure the hardships and dangers of the wilderness,
and with God’s blessing to lay, on the shores of America, the foundation of a mighty nation.
Yet honest and God-fearing as they were, the Pilgrims did not yet comprehend the great principle
of religious liberty. The freedom which they sacrificed so much to secure for themselves, they
were not equally ready to grant to others. “Very few, even of the foremost thinkers and moralists
of the seventeenth century, had any just conception of that grand principle, the outgrowth
of the New Testament, which acknowledges God as the sole judge of human faith.”(438) The doctrine
that God has committed to the church the right to control the conscience, and to define and
punish heresy, is one of the most deeply rooted of papal errors. While the Reformers rejected
the creed of Rome, they were not entirely free from her spirit of intolerance. The dense darkness
in which, through the long ages of her rule, popery had enveloped all Christendom, had not
even yet been wholly dissipated. Said one of the leading ministers in the colony of Massachusetts
Bay: “It was toleration that made the world antichristian; and the church never took harm by
the punishment of heretics.”(439) The regulation was adopted by the colonists, that only church-members
should have a voice in the civil government. A kind of state church was formed, all the people
being required to contribute to the support of the clergy, and the magistrates being authorized
to suppress heresy. Thus the secular power was in the hands of the church. It was not long
before these measures led to the inevitable result—persecution.

Eleven years after the planting of the first colony, Roger Williams came to the New World.
Like the early Pilgrims, he came to enjoy religious freedom; but unlike them, he saw—what so
few in his time had yet seen—that this freedom was the inalienable right of all, whatever might
be their creed. He was an earnest seeker for truth, with Robinson holding it impossible that
all the light from God’s word had yet been received. Williams “was the first person in modern
Christendom to establish civil government on the doctrine of the liberty of conscience, the
equality of opinions before the law.”(440) He declared it to be the duty of the magistrate
to restrain crime, but never to control the conscience. “The public or the magistrates may
decide,” he said, “what is due from man to man; but when they attempt to prescribe a man’s
duties to God, they are out of place, and there can be no safety; for it is clear that if the
magistrate has the power, he may decree one set of opinions or beliefs to-day and another to-morrow;
as has been done in England by different kings and queens, and by different popes and councils
in the Roman Church; so that belief would become a heap of confusion.”(441)

Attendance at the services of the established church was required under a penalty of fine or
imprisonment. “Williams reprobated the law; the worst statute in the English code was that
which did but enforce attendance upon the parish church. To compel men to unite with those
of a different creed, he regarded as an open violation of their natural rights; to drag to
public worship the irreligious and the unwilling, seemed only like requiring hypocrisy....
‘No one should be bound to worship, or,’ he added, ‘to maintain a worship, against his own
consent.’ ‘What!’ exclaimed his antagonists, amazed at his tenets, ‘is not the laborer worthy
of his hire?’ ‘Yes,’ replied he, ‘from them that hire him.’ ”(442)

Roger Williams was respected and beloved as a faithful minister, a man of rare gifts, of unbending
integrity and true benevolence; yet his steadfast denial of the right of civil magistrates
to authority over the church, and his demand for religious liberty, could not be tolerated.
The application of this new doctrine, it was urged, would “subvert the fundamental state and
government of the country.”(443) He was sentenced to banishment from the colonies, and finally,
to avoid arrest, he was forced to flee, amid the cold and storms of winter, into the unbroken
forest.

“For fourteen weeks,” he says, “I was sorely tossed in a bitter season, not knowing what bread
or bed did mean.” But “the ravens fed me in the wilderness,” and a hollow tree often served
him for a shelter.(444) Thus he continued his painful flight through the snow and the trackless
forest, until he found refuge with an Indian tribe whose confidence and affection he had won
while endeavoring to teach them the truths of the gospel.

Making his way at last, after months of change and wandering, to the shores of Narragansett
Bay, he there laid the foundation of the first state of modern times that in the fullest sense
recognized the right of religious freedom. The fundamental principle of Roger Williams’s colony,
was “that every man should have liberty to worship God according to the light of his own conscience.”(445)
His little State, Rhode Island, became the asylum of the oppressed, and it increased and prospered
until its foundation principles—civil and religious liberty—became the corner-stones of the
American Republic. Reasoning was not necessary to establish this truth; we are conscious of
it in our own bosoms. It is this consciousness which, in defiance of human laws, has sustained
so many martyrs in tortures and flames. They felt that their duty to God was superior to human
enactments, and that man could exercise no authority over their consciences. It is an inborn
principle which nothing can eradicate.”(446)

As the tidings spread through the countries of Europe, of a land where every man might enjoy
the fruit of his own labor and obey the convictions of his conscience, thousands flocked to
the shores of the New World. Colonies rapidly multiplied. “Massachusetts, by special law, offered
free welcome and aid, at the public cost, to Christians of any nationality who might fly beyond
the Atlantic ‘to escape from wars or famine, or the oppression of their persecutors.’ Thus
the fugitive and the downtrodden were, by statute, made the guests of the commonwealth.”(447)
In twenty years from the first landing at Plymouth, as many thousand Pilgrims were settled
in New England.

To secure the object which they sought, “they were content to earn a bare subsistence by a
life of frugality and toil. They asked nothing from the soil but the reasonable returns of
their own labor. No golden vision threw a deceitful halo around their path.... They were content
with the slow but steady progress of their social polity. They patiently endured the privations
of the wilderness, watering the tree of liberty with their tears, and with the sweat of their
brow, till it took deep root in the land.”

The Bible was held as the foundation of faith, the source of wisdom, and the charter of liberty.
Its principles were diligently taught in the home, in the school, and in the church, and its
fruits were manifest in thrift, intelligence, purity, and temperance. One might be for years
a dweller in the Puritan settlements, “and not see a drunkard, or hear an oath, or meet a beggar.”(448)
It was demonstrated that the principles of the Bible are the surest safeguards of national
greatness. The feeble and isolated colonies grew to a confederation of powerful States, and
the world marked with wonder the peace and prosperity of “a church without a pope, and a state
without a king.”

But continually increasing numbers were attracted to the shores of America, actuated by motives
widely different from those of the first Pilgrims. Though the primitive faith and purity exerted
a wide-spread and moulding power, yet its influence became less and less as the numbers increased
of those who sought only worldly advantage.

The regulation adopted by the early colonists, of permitting only members of the church to
vote or to hold office in the civil government, led to most pernicious results. This measure
had been accepted as a means of preserving the purity of the state, but it resulted in the
corruption of the church. A profession of religion being the condition of suffrage and office-holding,
many, actuated solely by motives of worldly policy, united with the church without a change
of heart. Thus the churches came to consist, to a considerable extent, of unconverted persons;
and even in the ministry were those who not only held errors of doctrine, but who were ignorant
of the renewing power of the Holy Spirit. Thus again was demonstrated the evil results, so
often witnessed in the history of the church from the days of Constantine to the present, of
attempting to build up the church by the aid of the state, of appealing to the secular power
in support of the gospel of Him who declared, “My kingdom is not of this world.”(449) The union
of the church with the state, be the degree never so slight, while it may appear to bring the
world nearer to the church, does in reality but bring the church nearer to the world.

The great principle so nobly advocated by Robinson and Roger Williams, that truth is progressive,
that Christians should stand ready to accept all the light which may shine from God’s holy
word, was lost sight of by their descendants. The Protestant churches of America—and those
of Europe as well—so highly favored in receiving the blessings of the Reformation, failed to
press forward in the path of reform. Though a few faithful men arose, from time to time, to
proclaim new truth and expose long-cherished error, the majority, like the Jews in Christ’s
day or the papists in the time of Luther, were content to believe as their fathers had believed,
and to live as they had lived. Therefore religion again degenerated into formalism; and errors
and superstitions which would have been cast aside had the church continued to walk in the
light of God’s word, were retained and cherished. Thus the spirit inspired by the Reformation
gradually died out, until there was almost as great need of reform in the Protestant churches
as in the Roman Church in the time of Luther. There was the same worldliness and spiritual
stupor, a similar reverence for the opinions of men, and substitution of human theories for
the teachings of God’s word.

The wide circulation of the Bible in the early part of the nineteenth century, and the great
light thus shed upon the world, was not followed by a corresponding advance in knowledge of
revealed truth, or in experimental religion. Satan could not, as in former ages, keep God’s
word from the people; it had been placed within the reach of all; but in order still to accomplish
his object, he led many to value it but lightly. Men neglected to search the Scriptures, and
thus they continued to accept false interpretations, and to cherish doctrines which had no
foundation in the Bible.

Seeing the failure of his efforts to crush out the truth by persecution, Satan had again resorted
to the plan of compromise which led to the great apostasy and the formation of the Church of
Rome. He had induced Christians to ally themselves, not now with pagans, but with those who,
by their devotion to the things of this world, had proved themselves to be as truly idolaters
as were the worshipers of graven images. And the results of this union were no less pernicious
now than in former ages; pride and extravagance were fostered under the guise of religion,
and the churches became corrupted. Satan continued to pervert the doctrines of the Bible, and
traditions that were to ruin millions were taking deep root. The church was upholding and defending
these traditions, instead of contending for “the faith which was once delivered to the saints.”
Thus were degraded the principles for which the Reformers had done and suffered so much.

17. HERALDS OF THE MORNING.

One of the most solemn and yet most glorious truths revealed in the Bible is that of Christ’s
second coming, to complete the great work of redemption. To God’s pilgrim people, so long left
to sojourn in “the region and shadow of death,” a precious, joy-inspiring hope is given in
the promise of His appearing, who is “the resurrection and the life,” to “bring home again
His banished.” The doctrine of the second advent is the very key-note of the Sacred Scriptures.
From the day when the first pair turned their sorrowing steps from Eden, the children of faith
have waited the coming of the Promised One to break the destroyer’s power and bring them again
to the lost Paradise. Holy men of old looked forward to the advent of the Messiah in glory,
as the consummation of their hope. Enoch, only the seventh in descent from them that dwelt
in Eden, he who for three centuries on earth walked with his God, was permitted to behold from
afar the coming of the Deliverer. “Behold,” he declared, “the Lord cometh with ten thousands
of His saints, to execute judgment upon all.”(450) The patriarch Job in the night of his affliction
exclaimed with unshaken trust: “I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that He shall stand at
the latter day upon the earth: ... in my flesh shall I see God: whom I shall see for myself,
and mine eyes shall behold, and not another.”(451)

The coming of Christ to usher in the reign of righteousness, has inspired the most sublime
and impassioned utterances of the sacred writers. The poets and prophets of the Bible have
dwelt upon it in words glowing with celestial fire. The psalmist sung of the power and majesty
of Israel’s King: “Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. “God came from Teman,
and the Holy One from Mount Paran. His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of
His praise. “The Lord shall comfort Zion: He will comfort all her waste places; and He will
make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord.” “The glory of Lebanon
shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon.” “Thou shalt no more be termed
Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called My Delight,
and thy land Beulah.” “As the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice
over thee.”(464)

The coming of the Lord has been in all ages the hope of His true followers. The Saviour’s parting
promise upon Olivet, that He would come again, lighted up the future for His disciples, filling
their hearts with joy and hope that sorrow could not quench nor trials dim. Amid suffering
and persecution, “the appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ” was the “blessed
hope.” When the Thessalonian Christians were filled with grief as they buried their loved ones,
who had hoped to live to witness the coming of the Lord, Paul, their teacher, pointed them
to the resurrection, to take place at the Saviour’s advent. Then the dead in Christ should
rise, and together with the living be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. “And so,” he said,
“shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words.”(465)

On rocky Patmos the beloved disciple hears the promise, “Surely I come quickly,” and his longing
response voices the prayer of the church in all her pilgrimage, “Even so, come, Lord Jesus.”(466)

From the dungeon, the stake, the scaffold, where saints and martyrs witnessed for the truth,
comes down the centuries the utterance of their faith and hope. Being “assured of His personal
resurrection, and consequently of their own at His coming, for this cause,” says one of these
Christians, “they despised death, and were found to be above it.”(467) They were willing to
go down to the grave, that they might “rise free.”(468) They looked for the “Lord to come from
heaven in the clouds with the glory of His Father,” “bringing to the just the times of the
kingdom.” The Waldenses cherished the same faith.(469) Wycliffe looked forward to the Redeemer’s
appearing as the hope of the church.(470)

Luther declared: “I persuade myself verily, that the day of judgment will not be absent full
three hundred years. God will not, can not, suffer this wicked world much longer.” “The great
day is drawing near in which the kingdom of abominations shall be overthrown.”(471)

“This aged world is not far from its end,” said Melanchthon. Calvin bids Christians “not to
hesitate, ardently desiring the day of Christ’s coming as of all events most auspicious;” and
declares that “the whole family of the faithful will keep in view that day.” “We must hunger
after Christ, we must seek, contemplate,” he says, “till the dawning of that great day, when
our Lord will fully manifest the glory of His kingdom.”(472)

“Has not our Lord Jesus carried up our flesh into heaven?” said Knox, the Scotch Reformer,
“and shall He not return? We know that He shall return, and that with expedition.” Ridley and
Latimer, who laid down their lives for the truth, looked in faith for the Lord’s coming. Ridley
wrote: “The world without doubt—this I do believe, and therefore I say it—draws to an end.
Let us with John, the servant of God, cry in our hearts unto our Saviour Christ, Come, Lord
Jesus, come.”(473)

“The thoughts of the coming of the Lord,” said Baxter, “are most sweet and joyful to me.”(474)
“It is the work of faith and the character of His saints to love His appearing and to look
for that blessed hope.” “If death be the last enemy to be destroyed at the resurrection, we
may learn how earnestly believers should long and pray for the second coming of Christ, when
this full and final conquest shall be made.”(475) “This is the day that all believers should
long, and hope, and wait for, as being the accomplishment of all the work of their redemption,
and all the desires and endeavors of their souls.” “Hasten, O Lord, this blessed day!”(476)
Such was the hope of the apostolic church, of the “church in the wilderness,” and of the Reformers.

Prophecy not only foretells the manner and object of Christ’s coming, but presents tokens by
which men are to know when it is near. In fulfilment of this prophecy there occurred, in the
year 1755, the most terrible earthquake that has ever been recorded. Though commonly known
as the earthquake of Lisbon, it extended to the greater part of Europe, Africa, and America.
It was felt in Greenland, in the West Indies, in the island of Madeira, in Norway and Sweden,
Great Britain and Ireland. It pervaded an extent of not less than four million square miles.
In Africa the shock was almost as severe as in Europe. A great part of Algiers was destroyed;
and a short distance from Morocco, a village containing eight or ten thousand inhabitants was
swallowed up. A vast wave swept over the coast of Spain and Africa, engulfing cities, and causing
great destruction.

It was in Spain and Portugal that the shock manifested its extreme violence. At Cadiz the inflowing
wave was said to be sixty feet high. Mountains, “some of the largest in Portugal, were impetuously
shaken, as it were, from their very foundations; and some of them opened at their summits,
which were split and rent in a wonderful manner, huge masses of them being thrown down into
the adjacent valleys. Flames are related to have issued from these mountains.”(480)

At Lisbon “a sound of thunder was heard underground, and immediately afterward a violent shock
threw down the greater part of that city. In the course of about six minutes, sixty thousand
persons perished. The sea first retired, and laid the bar dry; it then rolled in, rising fifty
feet or more above its ordinary level.” “Among other extraordinary events related to have occurred
at Lisbon during the catastrophe, was the subsidence of a new quay, built entirely of marble,
at an immense expense. A great concourse of people had collected there for safety, as a spot
where they might be beyond the reach of falling ruins; but suddenly the quay sank down with
all the people on it, and not one of the dead bodies ever floated to the surface.”(481)

“The shock” of the earthquake “was instantly followed by the fall of every church and convent,
almost all the large public buildings, and more than one fourth of the houses. In about two
hours after the shock, fires broke out in different quarters, and raged with such violence
for the space of nearly three days, that the city was completely desolated. The earthquake
happened on a holy-day, when the churches and convents were full of people, very few of whom
escaped.”(482) “The terror of the people was beyond description. Nobody wept; it was beyond
tears. They ran hither and thither, delirious with horror and astonishment, beating their faces
and breasts, crying, ‘Misericordia! the world’s at an end!’ Mothers forgot their children,
and ran about loaded with crucifixed images. Unfortunately, many ran to the churches for protection;
but in vain was the sacrament exposed; in vain did the poor creatures embrace the altars; images,
priests, and people were buried in one common ruin.” It has been estimated that ninety thousand
persons lost their lives on that fatal day.

Twenty-five years later appeared the next sign mentioned in the prophecy,—the darkening of
the sun and moon. What rendered this more striking was the fact that the time of its fulfilment
had been definitely pointed out. In the Saviour’s conversation with His disciples upon Olivet,
after describing the long period of trial for the church,—the 1260 years of papal persecution,
concerning which He had promised that the tribulation should be shortened,—He thus mentioned
certain events to precede His coming, and fixed the time when the first of these should be
witnessed: “In those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon
shall not give her light.”(483) The 1260 days, or years, terminated in 1798. A quarter of a
century earlier, persecution had almost wholly ceased. Following this persecution, according
to the words of Christ, the sun was to be darkened. On the 19th of May, 1780, this prophecy
was fulfilled.

“Almost if not altogether alone, as the most mysterious and as yet unexplained phenomenon of
its kind, ... stands the dark day of May 19, 1780,—a most unaccountable darkening of the whole
visible heavens and atmosphere in New England.”(484)

An eye-witness living in Massachusetts describes the event as follows:

“In the morning the sun rose clear, but was soon overcast. The clouds became lowery, and from
them, black and ominous, as they soon appeared, lightning flashed, thunder rolled, and a little
rain fell. Toward nine o’clock, the clouds became thinner, and assumed a brassy or coppery
appearance, and earth, rocks, trees, buildings, water, and persons were changed by this strange,
unearthly light. A few minutes later, a heavy black cloud spread over the entire sky except
a narrow rim at the horizon, and it was as dark as it usually is at nine o’clock on a summer
evening....

“Fear, anxiety, and awe gradually filled the minds of the people. Women stood at the door,
looking out upon the dark landscape; men returned from their labor in the fields; the carpenter
left his tools, the blacksmith his forge, the tradesman his counter. Schools were dismissed,
and tremblingly the children fled homeward. Travelers put up at the nearest farmhouse. ‘What
is coming?’ queried every lip and heart. It seemed as if a hurricane was about to dash across
the land, or as if it was the day of the consummation of all things.

“Candles were used; and hearth-fires shone as brightly as on a moonless evening in autumn....
Fowls retired to their roosts and went to sleep, cattle gathered at the pasture-bars and lowed,
frogs peeped, birds sang their evening songs, and bats flew about. But the human knew that
night had not come....

“Dr. Nathanael Whittaker, pastor of the Tabernacle church in Salem, held religious services
in the meeting-house, and preached a sermon in which he maintained that the darkness was supernatural.
Congregations came together in many other places. The texts for the extemporaneous sermons
were invariably those that seemed to indicate that the darkness was consonant with scriptural
prophecy.... The darkness was most dense shortly after eleven o’clock.”(485) “In most parts
of the country it was so great in the daytime, that the people could not tell the hour by either
watch or clock, nor dine, nor manage their domestic business, without the light of candles....

“The extent of this darkness was extraordinary. It was observed as far east as Falmouth. To
the westward it reached to the farthest part of Connecticut, and to Albany. To the southward,
it was observed along the seacoasts; and to the north as far as the American settlements extend.”(486)

The intense darkness of the day was succeeded, an hour or two before evening, by a partially
clear sky, and the sun appeared, though it was still obscured by the black, heavy mist. “After
sundown, the clouds came again overhead, and it grew dark very fast.” “Nor was the darkness
of the night less uncommon and terrifying than that of the day; notwithstanding there was almost
a full moon, no object was discernible but by the help of some artificial light, which, when
seen from the neighboring houses and other places at a distance, appeared through a kind of
Egyptian darkness which seemed almost impervious to the rays.”(487) Said an eye-witness of
the scene: “I could not help conceiving at the time, that if every luminous body in the universe
had been shrouded in impenetrable shades, or struck out of existence, the darkness could not
have been more complete.”(488) Though at nine o’clock that night the moon rose to the full,
“it had not the least effect to dispel the deathlike shadows.” After midnight the darkness
disappeared, and the moon, when first visible, had the appearance of blood.

May 19, 1780, stands in history as “The Dark Day.” Since the time of Moses, no period of darkness
of equal density, extent, and duration, has ever been recorded. Absorbed in worldliness and
pleasure-seeking, the professed people of God were blinded to the Saviour’s instructions concerning
the signs of His appearing. The doctrine of the second advent had been neglected; the scriptures
relating to it were obscured by misinterpretation, until it was, to a great extent, ignored
and forgotten. Especially was this the case in the churches of America. The freedom and comfort
enjoyed by all classes of society, the ambitious desire for wealth and luxury, begetting an
absorbing devotion to money-making, the eager rush for popularity and power, which seemed to
be within the reach of all, led men to center their interests and hopes on the things of this
life, and to put far in the future that solemn day when the present order of things should
pass away.

When the Saviour pointed out to His followers the signs of His return, He foretold the state
of backsliding that would exist just prior to His second advent. There would be, as in the
days of Noah, the activity and stir of worldly business and pleasure-seeking—buying, selling,
planting, building, marrying, and giving in marriage—with forgetfulness of God and the future
life. Let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep between the porch and the altar.” “Turn
ye even to Me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning: and
rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God: for He is gracious
and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness.”(503)

To prepare a people to stand in the day of God, a great work of reform was to be accomplished.
God saw that many of His professed people were not building for eternity, and in His mercy
He was about to send a message of warning to arouse them from their stupor, and lead them to
make ready for the coming of the Lord.

This warning is brought to view in Revelation 14. Here is a threefold message represented as
proclaimed by heavenly beings, and immediately followed by the coming of the Son of man “to
reap the harvest of the earth.” The first of these warnings announces the approaching judgment.
Holy angels have been employed in directing this work, they have in charge the great movements
for the salvation of men; but the actual proclamation of the gospel is performed by the servants
of Christ upon the earth.

Faithful men, who were obedient to the promptings of God’s Spirit and the teachings of His
word, were to proclaim this warning to the world. “The secret of the Lord is with them that
fear Him; and He will show them His covenant.”(507)

It was not the scholarly theologians who had an understanding of this truth, and engaged in
its proclamation. Had these been faithful watchmen, diligently and prayerfully searching the
Scriptures, they would have known the time of night; the prophecies would have opened to them
the events about to take place. But they did not occupy this position, and the message was
given by humbler men. Said Jesus, “Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you.”(508)
Those who turn away from the light which God has given, or who neglect to seek it when it is
within their reach, are left in darkness. But the Saviour declares, “He that followeth Me shall
not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.”(509) Whoever is with singleness of
purpose seeking to do God’s will, earnestly heeding the light already given, will receive greater
light; to that soul some star of heavenly radiance will be sent, to guide him into all truth.

At the time of Christ’s first advent, the priests and scribes of the holy city, to whom were
intrusted the oracles of God, might have discerned the signs of the times, and proclaimed the
coming of the Promised One. The prophecy of Micah designated His birthplace;(510) Daniel specified
the time of His advent.(511) God committed these prophecies to the Jewish leaders; they were
without excuse if they did not know and declare to the people that the Messiah’s coming was
at hand. Their ignorance was the result of sinful neglect. The Jews were building monuments
for the slain prophets of God, while by their deference to the great men of earth they were
paying homage to the servants of Satan. Absorbed in their ambitious strife for place and power
among men, they lost sight of the divine honors proffered them by the King of heaven.

With profound and reverent interest the elders of Israel should have been studying the place,
the time, the circumstances, of the greatest event in the world’s history,—the coming of the
Son of God to accomplish the redemption of man. All the people should have been watching and
waiting that they might be among the first to welcome the world’s Redeemer. But lo, at Bethlehem
two weary travelers from the hills of Nazareth traverse the whole length of the narrow street
to the eastern extremity of the town, vainly seeking a place of rest and shelter for the night.
No doors are open to receive them. In a wretched hovel prepared for cattle, they at last find
refuge, and there the Saviour of the world is born.

Heavenly angels had seen the glory which the Son of God shared with the Father before the world
was, and they had looked forward with intense interest to His appearing on earth, as an event
fraught with the greatest joy to all people. Angels were appointed to carry the glad tidings
to those who were prepared to receive it, and who would joyfully make it known to the inhabitants
of the earth. Christ had stooped to take upon Himself man’s nature; He was to bear an infinite
weight of woe as He should make His soul an offering for sin; yet angels desired that even
in His humiliation, the Son of the Highest might appear before men with a dignity and glory
befitting His character. Would the great men of earth assemble at Israel’s capital to greet
His coming? Would legions of angels present Him to the expectant company?

An angel visits the earth to see who are prepared to welcome Jesus. But he can discern no tokens
of expectancy. He hears no voice of praise and triumph, that the period of Messiah’s coming
is at hand. The angel hovers for a time over the chosen city and the temple where the divine
presence has been manifested for ages; but even here is the same indifference. The priests,
in their pomp and pride, are offering polluted sacrifices in the temple. The Pharisees are
with loud voices addressing the people, or making boastful prayers at the corners of the streets.
In the palaces of kings, in the assemblies of philosophers, in the schools of the rabbis, all
are alike unmindful of the wondrous fact which has filled all heaven with joy and praise,—that
the Redeemer of men is about to appear upon the earth.

There is no evidence that Christ is expected, and no preparation for the Prince of life. In
amazement the celestial messenger is about to return to heaven with the shameful tidings, when
he discovers a group of shepherds who are watching their flocks by night, and as they gaze
into the starry heavens, are contemplating the prophecy of a Messiah to come to earth, and
longing for the advent of the world’s Redeemer. Here is a company that is prepared to receive
the heavenly message. And suddenly the angel of the Lord appears, declaring the good tidings
of great joy. How it rebukes our unbelief, our pride and self-sufficiency. How it warns us
to beware, lest by our criminal indifference we also fail to discern the signs of the times,
and therefore know not the day of our visitation.

It was not alone upon the hills of Judea, not among the lowly shepherds only, that angels found
the watchers for Messiah’s coming. In the land of the heathen also were those that looked for
Him; they were wise men, rich and noble, the philosophers of the East. Students of nature,
the magi had seen God in His handiwork. From the Hebrew Scriptures they had learned of the
Star to arise out of Jacob, and with eager desire they awaited His coming, who should be not
only the “Consolation of Israel,” but a “Light to lighten the Gentiles,” and “for salvation
unto the ends of the earth.”(513) They were seekers for light, and light from the throne of
God illumined the path for their feet. While the priests and rabbis of Jerusalem, the appointed
guardians and expounders of the truth, were shrouded in darkness, the Heaven-sent star guided
these Gentile strangers to the birthplace of the new-born King.

It is “unto them that look for Him” that Christ is to “appear the second time without sin unto
salvation.”(514) Like the tidings of the Saviour’s birth, the message of the second advent
was not committed to the religious leaders of the people. They had failed to preserve their
connection with God, and had refused light from heaven; therefore they were not of the number
described by the apostle Paul: “But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should
overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we
are not of the night, nor of darkness.”(515)

The watchmen upon the walls of Zion should have been the first to catch the tidings of the
Saviour’s advent, the first to lift their voices to proclaim Him near, the first to warn the
people to prepare for His coming. But they were at ease, dreaming of peace and safety, while
the people were asleep in their sins. Jesus saw His church, like the barren fig-tree, covered
with pretentious leaves, yet destitute of precious fruit. There was a boastful observance of
the forms of religion, while the spirit of true humility, penitence, and faith—which alone
could render the service acceptable to God—was lacking. Instead of the graces of the Spirit,
there were manifested pride, formalism, vainglory, selfishness, oppression. A backsliding church
closed their eyes to the signs of the times. God did not forsake them, or suffer His faithfulness
to fail; but they departed from Him, and separated themselves from His love. As they refused
to comply with the conditions, His promises were not fulfilled to them.

Such is the sure result of neglect to appreciate and improve the light and privileges which
God bestows. Unless the church will follow on in His opening providence, accepting every ray
of light, performing every duty which may be revealed, religion will inevitably degenerate
into the observance of forms, and the spirit of vital godliness will disappear. This truth
has been repeatedly illustrated in the history of the church. God requires of His people works
of faith and obedience corresponding to the blessings and privileges bestowed. Obedience requires
a sacrifice and involves a cross; and this is why so many of the professed followers of Christ
refused to receive the light from heaven, and, like the Jews of old, knew not the time of their
visitation.(516) Because of their pride and unbelief, the Lord passed them by, and revealed
His truth to those who, like the shepherds of Bethlehem and the Eastern magi, had given heed
to all the light they had received.

18. AN AMERICAN REFORMER.

An upright, honest-hearted farmer, who had been led to doubt the divine authority of the Scriptures,
yet who sincerely desired to know the truth, was the man specially chosen of God to lead out
in the proclamation of Christ’s second coming. Like many other reformers, William Miller had
in early life battled with poverty, and had thus learned the great lessons of energy and self-denial.
The members of the family from which he sprung were characterized by an independent, liberty-loving
spirit, by capability of endurance, and ardent patriotism,—traits which were also prominent
in his character. His father was a captain in the army of the Revolution, and to the sacrifices
which he made in the struggles and sufferings of that stormy period, may be traced the straitened
circumstances of Miller’s early life.

He had a sound physical constitution, and even in childhood gave evidence of more than ordinary
intellectual strength. As he grew older, this became more marked. His mind was active and well
developed, and he had a keen thirst for knowledge. Though he did not enjoy the advantages of
a collegiate education, his love of study and a habit of careful thought and close criticism
rendered him a man of sound judgment and comprehensive views. He possessed an irreproachable
moral character and an enviable reputation, being generally esteemed for integrity, thrift,
and benevolence. By dint of energy and application he early acquired a competence, though his
habits of study were still maintained. He filled various civil and military offices with credit,
and the avenues to wealth and honor seemed wide open to him.

His mother was a woman of sterling piety, and in childhood he had been subject to religious
impressions. In early manhood, however, he was thrown into the society of deists, whose influence
was the stronger from the fact that they were mostly good citizens, and men of humane and benevolent
disposition. Living, as they did, in the midst of Christian institutions, their characters
had been to some extent moulded by their surroundings. For the excellencies which won them
respect and confidence they were indebted to the Bible; and yet these good gifts were so perverted
as to exert an influence against the word of God. By association with these men, Miller was
led to adopt their sentiments. The current interpretations of Scripture presented difficulties
which seemed to him insurmountable; yet his new belief, while setting aside the Bible, offered
nothing better to take its place, and he remained far from satisfied. He continued to hold
these views, however, for about twelve years. But at the age of thirty-four, the Holy Spirit
impressed his heart with a sense of his condition as a sinner. He found in his former belief
no assurance of happiness beyond the grave. The future was dark and gloomy. Referring afterward
to his feelings at this time, he said:

“Annihilation was a cold and chilling thought, and accountability was sure destruction to all.
The heavens were as brass over my head, and the earth as iron under my feet. Eternity—what
was it? And death—why was it? The more I reasoned, the further I was from demonstration. The
more I thought, the more scattered were my conclusions. I tried to stop thinking, but my thoughts
would not be controlled. I was truly wretched, but did not understand the cause. I murmured
and complained, but knew not of whom. I knew that there was a wrong, but knew not how or where
to find the right. I mourned, but without hope.”

In this state he continued for some months. “Suddenly,” he says, “the character of a Saviour
was vividly impressed upon my mind. It seemed that there might be a being so good and compassionate
as to himself atone for our transgressions, and thereby save us from suffering the penalty
of sin. I immediately felt how lovely such a being must be, and imagined that I could cast
myself into the arms of, and trust in the mercy of, such a one. But the question arose, How
can it be proved that such a being does exist? Aside from the Bible, I found that I could get
no evidence of the existence of such a Saviour, or even of a future state....

“I saw that the Bible did bring to view just such a Saviour as I needed; and I was perplexed
to find how an uninspired book should develop principles so perfectly adapted to the wants
of a fallen world. I was constrained to admit that the Scriptures must be a revelation from
God. They became my delight; and in Jesus I found a friend. The Saviour became to me the chiefest
among ten thousand; and the Scriptures, which before were dark and contradictory, now became
the lamp to my feet and light to my path. My mind became settled and satisfied. I found the
Lord God to be a Rock in the midst of the ocean of life. The Bible now became my chief study,
and I can truly say, I searched it with great delight. I found the half was never told me.
I wondered why I had not seen its beauty and glory before, and marveled that I could have ever
rejected it. I found everything revealed that my heart could desire, and a remedy for every
disease of the soul. I lost all taste for other reading, and applied my heart to get wisdom
from God.”(517)

Miller publicly professed his faith in the religion which he had despised. But his infidel
associates were not slow to bring forward all those arguments which he himself had often urged
against the divine authority of the Scriptures. He was not then prepared to answer them; but
he reasoned that if the Bible is a revelation from God, it must be consistent with itself;
and that as it was given for man’s instruction, it must be adapted to his understanding. He
determined to study the Scriptures for himself, and ascertain if every apparent contradiction
could not be harmonized.

Endeavoring to lay aside all preconceived opinions, and dispensing with commentaries, he compared
scripture with scripture by the aid of the marginal references and the concordance. He pursued
his study in a regular and methodical manner; beginning with Genesis, and reading verse by
verse, he proceeded no faster than the meaning of the several passages so unfolded as to leave
him free from all embarrassment. When he found anything obscure, it was his custom to compare
it with every other text which seemed to have any reference to the matter under consideration.
Every word was permitted to have its proper bearing upon the subject of the text, and if his
view of it harmonized with every collateral passage, it ceased to be a difficulty. Thus whenever
he met with a passage hard to be understood, he found an explanation in some other portion
of the Scriptures. As he studied with earnest prayer for divine enlightenment, that which had
before appeared dark to his understanding was made clear. He saw that the prophecies, so far
as they had been fulfilled, had been fulfilled literally; that all the various figures, metaphors,
parables, similitudes, etc., were either explained in their immediate connection, or the terms
in which they were expressed were defined in other scriptures, and when thus explained, were
to be literally understood. “I was thus satisfied,” he says, “that the Bible is a system of
revealed truths, so clearly and simply given that the wayfaring man, though a fool, need not
err therein.”(519) Link after link of the chain of truth rewarded his efforts, as step by step
he traced down the great lines of prophecy. Angels of heaven were guiding his mind and opening
the Scriptures to his understanding.

Taking the manner in which the prophecies had been fulfilled in the past, as a criterion by
which to judge of the fulfilment of those which were still future, he became satisfied that
the popular view of the spiritual reign of Christ—a temporal millennium before the end of the
world—was not sustained by the word of God. This doctrine, pointing to a thousand years of
righteousness and peace before the personal coming of the Lord, put far off the terrors of
the day of God. But, pleasing though it may be, it is contrary to the teachings of Christ and
His apostles, who declared that the wheat and the tares are to grow together until the harvest,
the end of the world;(520) that “evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse;” that “in
the last days perilous times shall come;”(521) and that the kingdom of darkness shall continue
until the advent of the Lord, and shall be consumed with the spirit of His mouth, and be destroyed
with the brightness of His coming.(522)

The doctrine of the world’s conversion and the spiritual reign of Christ was not held by the
apostolic church. It was not generally accepted by Christians until about the beginning of
the eighteenth century. Like every other error, its results were evil. It taught men to look
far in the future for the coming of the Lord, and prevented them from giving heed to the signs
heralding His approach. It induced a feeling of confidence and security that was not well founded,
and led many to neglect the preparation necessary in order to meet their Lord.

Miller found the literal, personal coming of Christ to be plainly taught in the Scriptures.
Therefore man in his present state cannot enter into the kingdom of God. But when Jesus comes,
He confers immortality upon His people; and then He calls them to inherit the kingdom of which
they have hitherto been only heirs.

These and other scriptures clearly proved to Miller’s mind that the events which were generally
expected to take place before the coming of Christ, such as the universal reign of peace and
the setting up of the kingdom of God upon the earth, were to be subsequent to the second advent.
Furthermore, all the signs of the times and the condition of the world corresponded to the
prophetic description of the last days. He was forced to the conclusion, from the study of
Scripture alone, that the period allotted for the continuance of the earth in its present state
was about to close.

“Another kind of evidence that vitally affected my mind,” he says, “was the chronology of the
Scriptures.... I found that predicted events, which had been fulfilled in the past, often occurred
within a given time. The one hundred and twenty years to the flood (Gen. 6:3); the seven days
that were to precede it, with forty days of predicted rain (Gen. 7:4); the four hundred years
of the sojourn of Abraham’s seed (Gen. 15:13); the three days of the butler’s and baker’s dreams
(Gen. 40:12-20); the seven years of Pharaoh’s (Gen. 41:28-54); the forty years in the wilderness
(Num. 14:34); the three and a half years of famine (1 Kings 17:1);(529) ... the seventy years’
captivity (Jer. 25:11); Nebuchadnezzar’s seven times (Dan. 4:13-16); and the seven weeks, threescore
and two weeks, and the one week, making seventy weeks, determined upon the Jews (Dan. 9:24-27),—the
events limited by these times were all once only a matter of prophecy, and were fulfilled in
accordance with the predictions.”(530)

When, therefore, he found, in his study of the Bible, various chronological periods that, according
to his understanding of them, extended to the second coming of Christ, he could not but regard
them as the “times before appointed,” which God had revealed unto His servants.

“As I was fully convinced,” says Miller, “that ‘all Scripture given by inspiration of God is
profitable;’(533) that it came not at any time by the will of man, but was written as holy
men were moved by the Holy Ghost,(534) and was written ‘for our learning, that we through patience
and comfort of the Scriptures might have hope,’(535) I could but regard the chronological portions
of the Bible as being as much a portion of the word of God, and as much entitled to our serious
consideration, as any other portion of the Scriptures. I therefore felt that in endeavoring
to comprehend what God had in His mercy seen fit to reveal to us, I had no right to pass over
the prophetic periods.”(536)

The prophecy which seemed most clearly to reveal the time of the second advent was that of
Dan. 8:14: “Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.”
Following his rule of making Scripture its own interpreter, Miller learned that a day in symbolic
prophecy represents a year;(537) he saw that the period of 2300 prophetic days, or literal
years, would extend far beyond the close of the Jewish dispensation, hence it could not refer
to the sanctuary of that dispensation. Miller accepted the generally received view, that in
the Christian age the earth is the sanctuary, and he therefore understood that the cleansing
of the sanctuary foretold in Dan. 8:14 represented the purification of the earth by fire at
the second coming of Christ. If, then, the correct starting-point could be found for the 2300
days, he concluded that the time of the second advent could be readily ascertained. Thus would
be revealed the time of that great consummation, the time when the present state, with “all
its pride and power, pomp and vanity, wickedness and oppression, would come to an end;” when
the curse would be “removed from off the earth, death be destroyed, reward be given to the
servants of God, the prophets and saints, and them who fear His name, and those be destroyed
that destroy the earth.”(538)

With a new and deeper earnestness, Miller continued the examination of the prophecies, whole
nights as well as days being devoted to the study of what now appeared of such stupendous importance
and all-absorbing interest. In the eighth chapter of Daniel he could find no clue to the starting-point
of the 2300 days; the angel Gabriel, though commanded to make Daniel understand the vision,
gave him only a partial explanation. As the terrible persecution to befall the church was unfolded
to the prophet’s vision, physical strength gave way. He could endure no more, and the angel
left him for a time. Daniel “fainted, and was sick certain days.” “And I was astonished at
the vision,” he says, “but none understood it.”

Yet God had bidden His messenger, “Make this man to understand the vision.” That commission
must be fulfilled. In obedience to it, the angel, some time afterward, returned to Daniel,
saying, “I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding;” “therefore understand the
matter, and consider the vision.”(539) There was one important point in the vision of chapter
eight which had been left unexplained, namely, that relating to time,—the period of the 2300
days; therefore the angel, in resuming his explanation, dwells chiefly upon the subject of time:

“Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city.... Know therefore and
understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem
unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street
shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times. But from what were they cut off?
As the 2300 days was the only period of time mentioned in chapter eight, it must be the period
from which the seventy weeks were cut off; the seventy weeks must therefore be a part of the
2300 days, and the two periods must begin together. The seventy weeks were declared by the
angel to date from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem. If the
date of this commandment could be found, then the starting-point for the great period of the
2300 days would be ascertained.

In the seventh chapter of Ezra the decree is found.(540) In its completest form it was issued
by Artaxerxes, king of Persia, B.C. 457. Taking B.C. 457, the time when the decree was completed,
as the date of the commandment, every specification of the prophecy concerning the seventy
weeks was seen to have been fulfilled. The decree of Artaxerxes went into effect in the autumn
of B.C. 457. From this date, 483 years extend to the autumn of A.D. 27.(541) At that time this
prophecy was fulfilled. The word “Messiah” signifies “the Anointed One.” In the autumn of A.D.
27, Christ was baptized by John, and received the anointing of the Spirit. The apostle Peter
testifies that “God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power.”(542) And
the Saviour Himself declared, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He hath anointed
Me to preach the gospel to the poor.”(543) After His baptism He went into Galilee, “preaching
the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled.”(544)

“And He shall confirm the covenant with many for one week.” The “week” here brought to view
is the last one of the seventy; it is the last seven years of the period allotted especially
to the Jews. During this time, extending from A.D. 27 to A.D. 34, Christ, at first in person
and afterward by His disciples, extended the gospel invitation especially to the Jews. As the
apostles went forth with the good tidings of the kingdom, the Saviour’s direction was, “Go
not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not: but go
rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”(545)

“In the midst of the week He shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease.” In A.D.
31, three and a half years after His baptism, our Lord was crucified. With the great sacrifice
offered upon Calvary, ended that system of offerings which for four thousand years had pointed
forward to the Lamb of God. Type had met antitype, and all the sacrifices and oblations of
the ceremonial system were there to cease.

The seventy weeks, or 490 years, especially allotted to the Jews, ended, as we have seen, in
A.D. 34. At that time, through the action of the Jewish Sanhedrim, the nation sealed its rejection
of the gospel by the martyrdom of Stephen and the persecution of the followers of Christ. Then
the message of salvation, no longer restricted to the chosen people, was given to the world.
The disciples, forced by persecution to flee from Jerusalem, “went everywhere preaching the
Word.” “Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.” Peter, divinely
guided, opened the gospel to the centurion of Cæsarea, the God-fearing Cornelius; and the ardent
Paul, won to the faith of Christ, was commissioned to carry the glad tidings “far hence unto
the Gentiles.”(546)

Thus far every specification of the prophecies is strikingly fulfilled, and the beginning of
the seventy weeks is fixed beyond question at B.C. 457, and their expiration in A.D. 34. From
this data there is no difficulty in finding the termination of the 2300 days. The seventy weeks—490
days—having been cut off from the 2300, there were 1810 days remaining. After the end of 490
days, the 1810 days were still to be fulfilled. From A.D. 34, 1810 years extend to 1844. Consequently
the 2300 days of Dan. 8:14 terminate in 1844. At the expiration of this great prophetic period,
upon the testimony of the angel of God, “the sanctuary shall be cleansed.” Thus the time of
the cleansing of the sanctuary—which was almost universally believed to take place at the second
advent—was definitely pointed out.

Miller and his associates at first believed that the 2300 days would terminate in the spring
of 1844, whereas the prophecy points to the autumn of that year.(547) The misapprehension of
this point brought disappointment and perplexity to those who had fixed upon the earlier date
as the time of the Lord’s coming. But this did not in the least affect the strength of the
argument showing that the 2300 days terminated in the year 1844, and that the great event represented
by the cleansing of the sanctuary must then take place.

Entering upon the study of the Scriptures as he had done, in order to prove that they were
a revelation from God, Miller had not, at the outset, the slightest expectation of reaching
the conclusion at which he had now arrived. He himself could hardly credit the results of his
investigation. But the Scripture evidence was too clear and forcible to be set aside.

He had devoted two years to the study of the Bible, when, in 1818, he reached the solemn conviction
that in about twenty-five years Christ would appear for the redemption of His people. “I need
not speak,” says Miller, “of the joy that filled my heart in view of the delightful prospect,
nor of the ardent longings of my soul for a participation in the joys of the redeemed. The
Bible was now to me a new book. It was indeed a feast of reason; all that was dark, mystical,
or obscure to me in its teachings, had been dissipated from my mind before the clear light
that now dawned from its sacred pages; and oh, how bright and glorious the truth appeared!
All the contradictions and inconsistencies I had before found in the Word were gone; and although
there were many portions of which I was not satisfied I had a full understanding, yet so much
light had emanated from it to the illumination of my before darkened mind, that I felt a delight
in studying the Scripture which I had not before supposed could be derived from its teachings.”(548)

“With the solemn conviction that such momentous events were predicted in the Scriptures to
be fulfilled in so short a space of time, the question came home to me with mighty power regarding
my duty to the world, in view of the evidence that had affected my own mind.”(549) He could
not but feel that it was his duty to impart to others the light which he had received. He expected
to encounter opposition from the ungodly, but was confident that all Christians would rejoice
in the hope of meeting the Saviour whom they professed to love. His only fear was, that in
their great joy at the prospect of glorious deliverance, so soon to be consummated, many would
receive the doctrine without sufficiently examining the Scriptures in demonstration of its
truth. He therefore hesitated to present it, lest he should be in error, and be the means of
misleading others. He was thus led to review the evidences in support of the conclusions at
which he had arrived, and to consider carefully every difficulty which presented itself to
his mind. He found that objections vanished before the light of God’s word, as mist before
the rays of the sun. Five years spent thus, left him fully convinced of the correctness of
his position.

And now the duty of making known to others what he believed to be so clearly taught in the
Scriptures, urged itself with new force upon him. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of
his way to turn from it; if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but
thou hast delivered thy soul.’(550) I felt that if the wicked could be effectually warned,
multitudes of them would repent; and that if they were not warned, their blood might be required
at my hand.”(551)

He began to present his views in private as he had opportunity, praying that some minister
might feel their force and devote himself to their promulgation. But he could not banish the
conviction that he had a personal duty to perform in giving the warning. The words were ever
recurring to his mind, “Go and tell it to the world; their blood will I require at thy hand.”
For nine years he waited, the burden still pressing upon his soul, until in 1831 he for the
first time publicly gave the reasons of his faith.

As Elisha was called from following his oxen in the field, to receive the mantle of consecration
to the prophetic office, so was William Miller called to leave his plow, and open to the people
the mysteries of the kingdom of God. With trembling he entered upon his work, leading his hearers
down, step by step, through the prophetic periods to the second appearing of Christ. With every
effort he gained strength and courage as he saw the wide-spread interest excited by his words.

It was only at the solicitation of his brethren, in whose words he heard the call of God, that
Miller consented to present his views in public. He was now fifty years of age, unaccustomed
to public speaking, and burdened with a sense of unfitness for the work before him. But from
the first his labors were blessed in a remarkable manner to the salvation of souls. His first
lecture was followed by a religious awakening in which thirteen entire families, with the exception
of two persons, were converted. He was immediately urged to speak in other places, and in nearly
every place his labor resulted in a revival of the work of God. Sinners were converted, Christians
were roused to greater consecration, and deists and infidels were led to acknowledge the truth
of the Bible and the Christian religion. The testimony of those among whom he labored was,
“A class of minds are reached by him not within the influence of other men.”(552) His preaching
was calculated to arouse the public mind to the great things of religion, and to check the
growing worldliness and sensuality of the age.

In nearly every town there were scores, in some, hundreds, converted as the result of his preaching.
In many places Protestant churches of nearly all denominations were thrown open to him; and
the invitations to labor usually came from the ministers of the several congregations. It was
his invariable rule not to labor in any place to which he had not been invited, yet he soon
found himself unable to comply with half the requests that poured in upon him.

Many who did not accept his views as to the exact time of the second advent, were convinced
of the certainty and nearness of Christ’s coming and their need of preparation. In some of
the large cities his work produced a marked impression. Liquor-dealers abandoned the traffic,
and turned their shops into meeting-rooms; gambling dens were broken up; infidels, deists,
Universalists, and even the most abandoned profligates were reformed, some of whom had not
entered a house of worship for years. Prayer-meetings were established by the various denominations,
in different quarters, at almost every hour, business men assembling at midday for prayer and
praise. There was no extravagant excitement, but an almost universal solemnity on the minds
of the people. His work, like that of the early Reformers, tended rather to convince the understanding
and arouse the conscience than merely to excite the emotions.

In 1833 Miller received a license to preach, from the Baptist Church, of which he was a member.
A large number of the ministers of his denomination also approved his work, and it was with
their formal sanction that he continued his labors. He traveled and preached unceasingly, though
his personal labors were confined principally to the New England and Middle States. For several
years his expenses were met wholly from his own private purse, and he never afterward received
enough to meet the expense of travel to the places where he was invited. Thus his public labors,
so far from being a pecuniary benefit, were a heavy tax upon his property, which gradually
diminished during this period of his life. He was the father of a large family, but as they
were all frugal and industrious, his farm sufficed for their maintenance as well as his own.

In 1833, two years after Miller began to present in public the evidences of Christ’s soon coming,
the last of the signs appeared which were promised by the Saviour as tokens of His second advent.
That was the most extensive and wonderful display of falling stars which has ever been recorded;
“the whole firmament, over all the United States, being then, for hours, in fiery commotion!
No celestial phenomenon has ever occurred in this country, since its first settlement, which
was viewed with such intense admiration by one class in the community, or with so much dread
and alarm by another.” “Its sublimity and awful beauty still linger in many minds.... Never
did rain fall much thicker than the meteors fell toward the earth; east, west, north, and south,
it was the same. In a word, the whole heavens seemed in motion.... The display, as described
in Professor Silliman’s Journal, was seen all over North America.... From two o’clock until
broad daylight, the sky being perfectly serene and cloudless, an incessant play of dazzlingly
brilliant luminosities was kept up in the whole heavens.”(555)

“No language, indeed, can come up to the splendor of that magnificent display; ... no one who
did not witness it can form an adequate conception of its glory. It seemed as if the whole
starry heavens had congregated at one point near the zenith, and were simultaneously shooting
forth, with the velocity of lightning, to every part of the horizon; and yet they were not
exhausted—thousands swiftly followed in the tracks of thousands, as if created for the occasion.”(556)
“A more correct picture of a fig-tree casting its figs when blown by a mighty wind, it was
not possible to behold.”(557)

In the New York Journal of Commerce of Nov. 14, 1833, appeared a long article regarding this
wonderful phenomenon, containing this statement: “No philosopher or scholar has told or recorded
an event, I suppose, like that of yesterday morning. A prophet eighteen hundred years ago foretold
it exactly, if we will be at the trouble of understanding stars falling to mean falling stars,
... in the only sense in which it is possible to be literally true.”

Thus was displayed the last of those signs of His coming, concerning which Jesus bade His disciples,
“When ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors.”(558) After these
signs, John beheld, as the great event next impending, the heavens departing as a scroll, while
the earth quaked, mountains and islands removed out of their places, and the wicked in terror
sought to flee from the presence of the Son of man.(559)

Many who witnessed the falling of the stars, looked upon it as a herald of the coming judgment,—“an
awful type, a sure forerunner, a merciful sign, of that great and dreadful day.” Thus the attention
of the people was directed to the fulfilment of prophecy, and many were led to give heed to
the warning of the second advent.

In the year 1840, another remarkable fulfilment of prophecy excited wide-spread interest. Two
years before, Josiah Litch, one of the leading ministers preaching the second advent, published
an exposition of Revelation 9, predicting the fall of the Ottoman empire. According to his
calculations, this power was to be overthrown “in A.D. 1840, sometime in the month of August;”
and only a few days previous to its accomplishment he wrote: “Allowing the first period, 150
years, to have been exactly fulfilled before Deacozes ascended the throne by permission of
the Turks, and that the 391 years, fifteen days, commenced at the close of the first period,
it will end on the 11th of August, 1840, when the Ottoman power in Constantinople may be expected
to be broken. And this, I believe, will be found to be the case.”(560)

At the very time specified, Turkey, through her ambassadors, accepted the protection of the
allied powers of Europe, and thus placed herself under the control of Christian nations. The
event exactly fulfilled the prediction.(561) When it became known, multitudes were convinced
of the correctness of the principles of prophetic interpretation adopted by Miller and his
associates, and a wonderful impetus was given to the Advent Movement. Men of learning and position
united with Miller, both in preaching and publishing his views, and from 1840 to 1844 the work
rapidly extended.

William Miller possessed strong mental powers, disciplined by thought and study; and he added
to these the wisdom of heaven, by connecting himself with the Source of wisdom. He was a man
of sterling worth, who could not but command respect and esteem wherever integrity of character
and moral excellence were valued. Uniting true kindness of heart with Christian humility and
the power of self-control, he was attentive and affable to all, ready to listen to the opinions
of others, and to weigh their arguments. Without passion or excitement, he tested all theories
and doctrines by the word of God; and his sound reasoning, and thorough knowledge of the Scriptures,
enabled him to refute error and expose falsehood.

Yet he did not prosecute his work without bitter opposition. As with earlier Reformers, the
truths which he presented were not received with favor by popular religious teachers. As these
could not maintain their position by the Scriptures, they were driven to resort to the sayings
and doctrines of men, to the traditions of the Fathers. But the word of God was the only testimony
accepted by the preachers of the advent truth. “The Bible, and the Bible only,” was their watchword.
The lack of Scripture argument on the part of their opponents was supplied by ridicule and
scoffing. Time, means, and talents were employed in maligning those whose only offense was
that they looked with joy for the return of their Lord, and were striving to live holy lives,
and to exhort others to prepare for His appearing.

Earnest were the efforts put forth to draw away the minds of the people from the subject of
the second advent. It was made to appear a sin, something of which men should be ashamed, to
study the prophecies which relate to the coming of Christ and the end of the world. Thus the
popular ministry undermined faith in the word of God. Their teaching made men infidels, and
many took license to walk after their own ungodly lusts. Then the authors of the evil charged
it all upon Adventists.

While drawing crowded houses of intelligent and attentive hearers, Miller’s name was seldom
mentioned by the religious press except by way of ridicule or denunciation. The careless and
ungodly, emboldened by the position of religious teachers, resorted to opprobrious epithets,
to base and blasphemous witticisms, in their efforts to heap contumely upon him and his work.
The gray-headed man who had left a comfortable home to travel at his own expense from city
to city, from town to town, toiling unceasingly to bear to the world the solemn warning of
the judgment near, was sneeringly denounced as a fanatic, a liar, a speculating knave.

The ridicule, falsehood, and abuse heaped upon him called forth indignant remonstrance, even
from the secular press. “To treat a subject of such overwhelming majesty and fearful consequences,”
with lightness and ribaldry, was declared by worldly men to be “not merely to sport with the
feelings of its propagators and advocates,” but “to make a jest of the day of judgment, to
scoff at the Deity Himself, and contemn the terrors of His judgment-bar.”(562)

The instigator of all evil sought not only to counteract the effect of the advent message,
but to destroy the messenger himself. Miller made a practical application of Scripture truth
to the hearts of his hearers, reproving their sins and disturbing their self-satisfaction,
and his plain and cutting words aroused their enmity. The opposition manifested by church-members
toward his message, emboldened the baser classes to go to greater lengths; and enemies plotted
to take his life as he should leave the place of meeting. But holy angels were in the throng,
and one of these, in the form of a man, took the arm of this servant of the Lord, and led him
in safety from the angry mob. His work was not yet done, and Satan and his emissaries were
disappointed in their purpose.

Despite all opposition, the interest in the Advent Movement had continued to increase. From
scores and hundreds, the congregations had grown to as many thousands. Large accessions had
been made to the various churches, but after a time the spirit of opposition was manifested
even against these converts, and the churches began to take disciplinary steps with those who
had embraced Miller’s views. This action called forth a response from his pen, in an address
to Christians of all denominations, urging that if his doctrines were false, he should be shown
his error from the Scriptures.

“What have we believed,” he said, “that we have not been commanded to believe by the word of
God, which you yourselves allow is the rule, and only rule, of our faith and practice? What
have we done that should call down such virulent denunciations against us from pulpit and press,
and give you just cause to exclude us [Adventists] from your churches and fellowship?” “If
we are wrong, pray show us wherein consists our wrong. Show us from the word of God that we
are in error; we have had ridicule enough; that can never convince us that we are in the wrong;
the word of God alone can change our views. Our conclusions have been formed deliberately and
prayerfully, as we have seen the evidence in the Scriptures.”(563)

From age to age the warnings which God has sent to the world by His servants have been received
with like incredulity and unbelief. When the iniquity of the antediluvians moved Him to bring
a flood of waters upon the earth, He first made known to them His purpose, that they might
have opportunity to turn from their evil ways. For a hundred and twenty years was sounded in
their ears the warning to repent, lest the wrath of God be manifested in their destruction.
But the message seemed to them an idle tale, and they believed it not. Emboldened in their
wickedness, they mocked the messenger of God, made light of his entreaties, and even accused
him of presumption. How dare one man stand up against all the great men of the earth? If Noah’s
message were true, why did not all the world see it and believe it? One man’s assertion against
the wisdom of thousands! They would not credit the warning, nor would they seek shelter in the ark.

Scoffers pointed to the things of nature,—to the unvarying succession of the seasons, to the
blue skies that had never poured out rain, to the green fields refreshed by the soft dews of
night,—and they cried out, “Doth he not speak parables?” In contempt they declared the preacher
of righteousness to be a wild enthusiast; and they went on, more eager in their pursuit of
pleasure, more intent upon their evil ways, than ever before. But their unbelief did not hinder
the predicted event. God bore long with their wickedness, giving them ample opportunity for
repentance; but at the appointed time His judgments were visited upon the rejecters of His mercy.

Christ declares that there will exist similar unbelief concerning His second coming. As the
people of Noah’s day “knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so,” in the words
of our Saviour, “shall also the coming of the Son of man be.”(564) When the professed people
of God are uniting with the world, living as they live, and joining with them in forbidden
pleasure; when the luxury of the world becomes the luxury of the church; when the marriage
bells are chiming, and all are looking forward to many years of worldly prosperity,—then, suddenly
as the lightning flashes from the heavens, will come the end of their bright visions and delusive
hopes.

As God sent His servant to warn the world of the coming flood, so He sent chosen messengers
to make known the nearness of the final judgment. And as Noah’s contemporaries laughed to scorn
the predictions of the preacher of righteousness, so in Miller’s day many, even of the professed
people of God, scoffed at the words of warning.

And why were the doctrine and preaching of Christ’s second coming so unwelcome to the churches?
While to the wicked the advent of the Lord brings woe and desolation, to the righteous it is
fraught with joy and hope. This great truth had been the consolation of God’s faithful ones
through all the ages; why had it become, like its Author, “a stone of stumbling and a rock
of offense” to His professed people? It was our Lord Himself who promised His disciples, “If
I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto Myself.”(565) It
was the compassionate Saviour, who, anticipating the loneliness and sorrow of His followers,
commissioned angels to comfort them with the assurance that He would come again in person,
even as He went into heaven.

The proclamation of Christ’s coming should now be, as when made by the angels to the shepherds
of Bethlehem, good tidings of great joy. Those who really love the Saviour cannot but hail
with gladness the announcement founded upon the word of God, that He in whom their hopes of
eternal life are centered, is coming again, not to be insulted, despised, and rejected, as
at His first advent, but in power and glory, to redeem His people. It is those who do not love
the Saviour, that desire Him to remain away; and there can be no more conclusive evidence that
the churches have departed from God than the irritation and animosity excited by this Heaven-sent
message.

Those who accepted the advent doctrine were roused to the necessity of repentance and humiliation
before God. Many had long been halting between Christ and the world; now they felt that it
was time to take a stand. “The things of eternity assumed to them an unwonted reality. Heaven
was brought near, and they felt themselves guilty before God.”(568) Christians were quickened
to new spiritual life. They were made to feel that time was short, that what they had to do
for their fellow-men must be done quickly. Earth receded, eternity seemed to open before them,
and the soul, with all that pertains to its immortal weal or woe, was felt to eclipse every
temporal object. The Spirit of God rested upon them, and gave power to their earnest appeals
to their brethren, as well as to sinners, to prepare for the day of God. The silent testimony
of their daily life was a constant rebuke to formal and unconsecrated church-members. These
did not wish to be disturbed in their pursuit of pleasure, their devotion to money-making,
and their ambition for worldly honor. Hence the enmity and opposition excited against the advent
faith and those who proclaimed it.

As the arguments from the prophetic periods were found to be impregnable, opposers endeavored
to discourage investigation of the subject, by teaching that the prophecies were sealed. Thus
Protestants followed in the steps of Romanists. While the papal church withholds the Bible(569)
from the people, Protestant churches claimed that an important part of the sacred word—and
that the part which brings to view truths specially applicable to our time—could not be understood.

Ministers and people declared that the prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation were incomprehensible
mysteries. “And they that hear”—there are some, also, who refuse to hear anything concerning
the prophecies; the blessing is not for this class. “And keep those things which are written
therein”—many refuse to heed the warnings and instructions contained in the Revelation; none
of these can claim the blessing promised. All who ridicule the subjects of the prophecy, and
mock at the symbols here solemnly given, all who refuse to reform their lives, and prepare
for the coming of the Son of man, will be unblessed.

In view of the testimony of Inspiration, how dare men teach that the Revelation is a mystery,
beyond the reach of human understanding? It is a mystery revealed, a book opened. The study
of the Revelation directs the mind to the prophecies of Daniel, and both present most important
instruction, given of God to men, concerning events to take place at the close of this world’s
history.

To John were opened scenes of deep and thrilling interest in the experience of the church.
He saw the position, dangers, conflicts, and final deliverance of the people of God. He records
the closing messages which are to ripen the harvest of the earth, either as sheaves for the
heavenly garner or as fagots for the fires of destruction. Subjects of vast importance were
revealed to him, especially for the last church, that those who should turn from error to truth
might be instructed concerning the perils and conflicts before them. None need be in darkness
in regard to what is coming upon the earth.

Why, then, this wide-spread ignorance concerning an important part of Holy Writ? Why this general
reluctance to investigate its teachings? It is the result of a studied effort of the prince
of darkness to conceal from men that which reveals his deceptions. For this reason, Christ
the Revelator, foreseeing the warfare that would be waged against the study of the Revelation,
pronounced a blessing upon all who should read, hear, and observe the words of the prophecy.

19. LIGHT THROUGH DARKNESS.

The work of God in the earth presents, from age to age, a striking similarity in every great
reformation or religious movement. The principles of God’s dealing with men are ever the same.
The important movements of the present have their parallel in those of the past, and the experience
of the church in former ages has lessons of great value for our own time.

No truth is more clearly taught in the Bible than that God by His Holy Spirit especially directs
His servants on earth in the great movements for the carrying forward of the work of salvation.
Men are instruments in the hand of God, employed by Him to accomplish His purposes of grace
and mercy. Each has his part to act; to each is granted a measure of light, adapted to the
necessities of his time, and sufficient to enable him to perform the work which God has given
him to do. But no man, however honored of Heaven, has ever attained to a full understanding
of the great plan of redemption, or even to a perfect appreciation of the divine purpose in
the work for his own time. Men do not fully understand what God would accomplish by the work
which He gives them to do; they do not comprehend, in all its bearings, the message which they
utter in His name. The meaning was to be unfolded from age to age, as the people of God should
need the instruction therein contained. Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves,
but unto us they did minister.”(573)

Yet while it was not given to the prophets to understand fully the things revealed to them,
they earnestly sought to obtain all the light which God had been pleased to make manifest.
They “inquired and searched diligently,” “searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit
of Christ which was in them did signify.” What a lesson to the people of God in the Christian
age, for whose benefit these prophecies were given to His servants! “Unto whom it was revealed
that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister.” Witness those holy men of God as
they “inquired and searched diligently” concerning revelations given them for generations that
were yet unborn. Contrast their holy zeal with the listless unconcern with which the favored
ones of later ages treat this gift of heaven. What a rebuke to the ease-loving, world-loving
indifference which is content to declare that the prophecies cannot be understood.

Though the finite minds of men are inadequate to enter into the counsels of the Infinite One,
or to understand fully the working out of His purposes, yet often it is because of some error
or neglect on their own part, that they so dimly comprehend the messages of Heaven. Not infrequently
the minds of the people, and even of God’s servants, are so blinded by human opinions, the
traditions and false teaching of men, that they are able only partially to grasp the great
things which He has revealed in His word. Thus it was with the disciples of Christ, even when
the Saviour was with them in person. Their minds had become imbued with the popular conception
of the Messiah as a temporal prince, who was to exalt Israel to the throne of universal empire,
and they could not understand the meaning of His words foretelling His sufferings and death.
The sixty-nine weeks were declared by the angel to extend to “the Messiah the Prince,” and
with high hopes and joyful anticipations the disciples looked forward to the establishment
of Messiah’s kingdom at Jerusalem, to rule over the whole earth.

They preached the message which Christ had committed to them, though they themselves misapprehended
its meaning. While their announcement was founded on Dan. 9:25, they did not see, in the next
verse of the same chapter, that Messiah was to be cut off. From their very birth their hearts
had been set upon the anticipated glory of an earthly empire, and this blinded their understanding
alike to the specifications of the prophecy and to the words of Christ.

They performed their duty in presenting to the Jewish nation the invitation of mercy, and then,
at the very time when they expected to see their Lord ascend the throne of David, they beheld
Him seized as a malefactor, scourged, derided, and condemned, and lifted up on the cross of
Calvary. What despair and anguish wrung the hearts of those disciples during the days while
their Lord was sleeping in the tomb!

Christ had come at the exact time and in the manner foretold by prophecy. The testimony of
Scripture had been fulfilled in every detail of His ministry. He had preached the message of
salvation, and “His word was with power.” The hearts of His hearers had witnessed that it was
of Heaven. The word and the Spirit of God attested the divine commission of His Son.

The disciples still clung with undying affection to their beloved Master. And yet their minds
were shrouded in uncertainty and doubt. In their anguish they did not then recall the words
of Christ pointing forward to His suffering and death. If Jesus of Nazareth had been the true
Messiah, would they have been thus plunged in grief and disappointment? This was the question
that tortured their souls while the Saviour lay in His sepulcher during the hopeless hours
of that Sabbath which intervened between His death and His resurrection.

Though the night of sorrow gathered dark about these followers of Jesus, yet were they not
forsaken. “The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand,” had been their message. At
the expiration of “the time”—the sixty-nine weeks of Daniel 9, which were to extend to the
Messiah, “the Anointed One”—Christ had received the anointing of the Spirit, after His baptism
by John in Jordan. And the “kingdom of God” which they had declared to be at hand, was established
by the death of Christ. This kingdom was not, as they had been taught to believe, an earthly
empire. Nor was it that future, immortal kingdom which shall be set up when “the kingdom and
dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people
of the saints of the Most High;” that everlasting kingdom, in which “all dominions shall serve
and obey Him.”(576) As used in the Bible, the expression “kingdom of God” is employed to designate
both the kingdom of grace and the kingdom of glory. The kingdom of grace is brought to view
by Paul in the Epistle to the Hebrews. After pointing to Christ, the compassionate intercessor
who is “touched with the feeling of our infirmities,” the apostle says, “Let us therefore come
boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace.”(577) The throne
of grace represents the kingdom of grace; for the existence of a throne implies the existence
of a kingdom. In many of His parables, Christ uses the expression, “the kingdom of heaven,”
to designate the work of divine grace upon the hearts of men. It is not to be set up until
the second advent of Christ.

The kingdom of grace was instituted immediately after the fall of man, when a plan was devised
for the redemption of the guilty race. It then existed in the purpose and by the promise of
God; and through faith, men could become its subjects. Yet it was not actually established
until the death of Christ. Even after entering upon His earthly mission, the Saviour, wearied
with the stubbornness and ingratitude of men, might have drawn back from the sacrifice of Calvary.
In Gethsemane the cup of woe trembled in His hand. He might even then have wiped the blood-sweat
from His brow, and have left the guilty race to perish in their iniquity. Had He done this,
there could have been no redemption for fallen men. But when the Saviour yielded up His life,
and with His expiring breath cried out, “It is finished,” then the fulfilment of the plan of
redemption was assured. The promise of salvation made to the sinful pair in Eden was ratified.
The kingdom of grace, which had before existed by the promise of God, was then established.

Thus the death of Christ—the very event which the disciples had looked upon as the final destruction
of their hope—was that which made it forever sure. While it had brought them a cruel disappointment,
it was the climax of proof that their belief had been correct. The event that had filled them
with mourning and despair, was that which opened the door of hope to every child of Adam, and
in which centered the future life and eternal happiness of all God’s faithful ones in all the ages.

Purposes of infinite mercy were reaching their fulfilment, even through the disappointment
of the disciples. While their hearts had been won by the divine grace and power of His teaching,
who “spake as never man spake,” yet intermingled with the pure gold of their love for Jesus,
was the base alloy of worldly pride and selfish ambitions. Even in the Passover chamber, at
that solemn hour when their Master was already entering the shadow of Gethsemane, there was
“a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest.”(579) Their vision was
filled with the throne, the crown, and the glory, while just before them lay the shame and
agony of the garden, the judgment-hall, the cross of Calvary. It was their pride of heart,
their thirst for worldly glory, that had led them to cling so tenaciously to the false teaching
of their time, and to pass unheeded the Saviour’s words showing the true nature of His kingdom,
and pointing forward to His agony and death. And these errors resulted in the trial—sharp but
needful—which was permitted for their correction. Though the disciples had mistaken the meaning
of their message, and had failed to realize their expectations, yet they had preached the warning
given them of God, and the Lord would reward their faith and honor their obedience. To them
was to be intrusted the work of heralding to all nations the glorious gospel of their risen
Lord. It was to prepare them for this work, that the experience which seemed to them so bitter
had been permitted. Faith was kindled. They were “begotten again unto a lively hope,” even
before Jesus revealed Himself to them. It was His purpose to enlighten their understanding,
and to fasten their faith upon the “sure word of prophecy.” He wished the truth to take firm
root in their minds, not merely because it was supported by His personal testimony, but because
of the unquestionable evidence presented by the symbols and shadows of the typical law, and
by the prophecies of the Old Testament. It was needful for the followers of Christ to have
an intelligent faith, not only in their own behalf, but that they might carry the knowledge
of Christ to the world. And as the very first step in imparting this knowledge, Jesus directed
the disciples to “Moses and the prophets.” Such was the testimony given by the risen Saviour
to the value and importance of the Old Testament Scriptures.

What a change was wrought in the hearts of the disciples, as they looked once more on the loved
countenance of their Master!(581) In a more complete and perfect sense than ever before, they
had “found Him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write.” The uncertainty, the
anguish, the despair, gave place to perfect assurance, to unclouded faith. What marvel that
after His ascension they “were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God.” The people,
knowing only of the Saviour’s ignominious death, looked to see in their faces the expression
of sorrow, confusion, and defeat; but they saw there gladness and triumph. What a preparation
these disciples had received for the work before them! They had passed through the deepest
trial which it was possible for them to experience, and had seen how, when to human vision
all was lost, the word of God had been triumphantly accomplished. Henceforward what could daunt
their faith, or chill the ardor of their love? He who is “able to do exceeding abundantly above
all that we ask or think,” had granted them, with the fellowship of His sufferings, the communion
of His joy,—the joy of “bringing many sons unto glory,” joy unspeakable, “an eternal weight
of glory,” to which, says Paul, “our light affliction, which is but for a moment,” is “not
worthy to be compared.”

The experience of the disciples who preached the “gospel of the kingdom” at the first advent
of Christ, had its counterpart in the experience of those who proclaimed the message of His
second advent. As the disciples went out preaching, “The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of
God is at hand,” so Miller and his associates proclaimed that the longest and last prophetic
period brought to view in the Bible was about to expire, that the judgment was at hand, and
the everlasting kingdom was to be ushered in. The preaching of the disciples in regard to time
was based on the seventy weeks of Daniel 9. The message given by Miller and his associates
announced the termination of the 2300 days of Dan. 8:14, of which the seventy weeks form a
part. The preaching of each was based upon the fulfilment of a different portion of the same
great prophetic period.

Like the first disciples, William Miller and his associates did not, themselves, fully comprehend
the import of the message which they bore. Errors that had been long established in the church
prevented them from arriving at a correct interpretation of an important point in the prophecy.
Therefore, though they proclaimed the message which God had committed to them to be given to
the world, yet through a misapprehension of its meaning, they suffered disappointment. When,
therefore, he found that the close of the 2300 days was definitely foretold, he concluded that
this revealed the time of the second advent. His error resulted from accepting the popular
view as to what constitutes the sanctuary.

In the typical system, which was a shadow of the sacrifice and priesthood of Christ, the cleansing
of the sanctuary was the last service performed by the high priest in the yearly round of ministration.
It was the closing work of the atonement,—a removal or putting away of sin from Israel. It
prefigured the closing work in the ministration of our High Priest in heaven, in the removal
or blotting out of the sins of His people, which are registered in the heavenly records. This
service involves a work of investigation, a work of judgment; and it immediately precedes the
coming of Christ in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory; for when He comes, every
case has been decided. Says Jesus, “My reward is with Me, to give every man according as his
work shall be.”(589) It is this work of judgment, immediately preceding the second advent,
that is announced in the first angel’s message of Rev. 14:7, “Fear God, and give glory to Him;
for the hour of His judgment is come.”

Those who proclaimed this warning gave the right message at the right time. But as the early
disciples declared, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand,” based on the
prophecy of Daniel 9, while they failed to perceive that the death of the Messiah was foretold
in the same scripture; so Miller and his associates preached the message based on Dan. 8:14
and Rev. 14:7, and failed to see that there were still other messages brought to view in Revelation
14, which were also to be given before the advent of the Lord. As the disciples were mistaken
in regard to the kingdom to be set up at the end of the seventy weeks, so Adventists were mistaken
in regard to the event to take place at the expiration of the 2300 days. In both cases there
was an acceptance of, or rather an adherence to, popular errors that blinded the mind to the
truth. Both classes fulfilled the will of God in delivering the message which He desired to
be given, and both, through their own misapprehension of their message, suffered disappointment.

Yet God accomplished His own beneficent purpose in permitting the warning of the judgment to
be given just as it was. The great day was at hand, and in His providence the people were brought
to the test of a definite time, in order to reveal to them what was in their hearts. The message
was designed for the testing and purification of the church. They were to be led to see whether
their affections were set upon this world or upon Christ and heaven. They professed to love
the Saviour; now they were to prove their love. Were they ready to renounce their worldly hopes
and ambitions, and welcome with joy the advent of their Lord? The message was designed to enable
them to discern their true spiritual state; it was sent in mercy to arouse them to seek the
Lord with repentance and humiliation.

The disappointment also, though the result of their own misapprehension of the message which
they gave, was to be overruled for good. It would test the hearts of those who had professed
to receive the warning. In the face of their disappointment, would they rashly give up their
experience, and cast away their confidence in God’s word? or would they, in prayer and humility,
seek to discern where they had failed to comprehend the significance of the prophecy? How many
had moved from fear, or from impulse and excitement? How many were half-hearted and unbelieving?
Multitudes professed to love the appearing of the Lord. When called to endure the scoffs and
reproach of the world, and the test of delay and disappointment, would they renounce the faith?
Because they did not immediately understand the dealings of God with them, would they cast
aside truths sustained by the clearest testimony of His word?

This test would reveal the strength of those who with real faith had obeyed what they believed
to be the teaching of the word and the Spirit of God. It would teach them, as only such an
experience could, the danger of accepting the theories and interpretations of men, instead
of making the Bible its own interpreter. To the children of faith the perplexity and sorrow
resulting from their error, would work the needed correction. They would be led to a closer
study of the prophetic word. They would be taught to examine more carefully the foundation
of their faith, and to reject everything, however widely accepted by the Christian world, that
was not founded upon the Scriptures of truth.

With these believers, as with the first disciples, that which in the hour of trial seemed dark
to their understanding, would afterward be made plain. When they should see the “end of the
Lord,” they would know that notwithstanding the trial resulting from their errors, His purposes
of love toward them had been steadily fulfilling. They would learn by a blessed experience
that He is “very pitiful, and of tender mercy;” that all His paths “are mercy and truth unto
such as keep His covenant and His testimonies.”

20. A GREAT RELIGIOUS AWAKENING.

A great religious awakening under the proclamation of Christ’s soon coming, is foretold in
the prophecy of the first angel’s message of Revelation 14. By the purity, the glory, and the
power of the heavenly messenger, divine wisdom has been pleased to represent the exalted character
of the work to be accomplished by the message, and the power and glory that were to attend
it. And the angel’s flight “in the midst of heaven,” the “loud voice” with which the warning
is uttered, and its promulgation to all “that dwell on the earth,”—“to every nation, and kindred,
and tongue, and people,”—give evidence of the rapidity and world-wide extent of the movement.

The message itself sheds light as to the time when this movement is to take place. It is declared
to be a part of the “everlasting gospel;” and it announces the opening of the judgment. The
message of salvation has been preached in all ages; but this message is a part of the gospel
which could be proclaimed only in the last days, for only then would it be true that the hour
of judgment had come. The prophecies present a succession of events leading down to the opening
of the judgment. This is especially true of the book of Daniel. But that part of his prophecy
which related to the last days, Daniel was bidden to close up and seal “to the time of the
end.” Not till we reach this time could a message concerning the judgment be proclaimed, based
on a fulfilment of these prophecies. But at the time of the end, says the prophet, “many shall
run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.”(591)

The apostle Paul warned the church not to look for the coming of Christ in his day. “That day
shall not come,” he says, “except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed.”(592)
Not till after the great apostasy, and the long period of the reign of the “man of sin,” can
we look for the advent of our Lord. The “man of sin,” which is also styled the “mystery of
iniquity,” the “son of perdition,” and “that wicked,” represents the papacy, which, as foretold
in prophecy, was to maintain its supremacy for 1260 years. This period ended in 1798. The coming
of Christ could not take place before that time. Paul covers with his caution the whole of
the Christian dispensation down to the year 1798. It is this side of that time that the message
of Christ’s second coming is to be proclaimed.

No such message has ever been given in past ages. Paul, as we have seen, did not preach it;
he pointed his brethren into the then far-distant future for the coming of the Lord. The Reformers
did not proclaim it. Martin Luther placed the judgment about three hundred years in the future
from his day. But since 1798 the book of Daniel has been unsealed, knowledge of the prophecies
has increased, and many have proclaimed the solemn message of the judgment near.

Like the great Reformation of the sixteenth century, the Advent Movement appeared in different
countries of Christendom at the same time. In both Europe and America, men of faith and prayer
were led to the study of the prophecies, and tracing down the inspired record, they saw convincing
evidence that the end of all things was at hand. In different lands there were isolated bodies
of Christians who, solely by the study of the Scriptures, arrived at the belief that the Saviour’s
advent was near.

In 1821, three years after Miller had arrived at his exposition of the prophecies pointing
to the time of the judgment, Dr. Joseph Wolff, “the missionary to the world,” began to proclaim
the Lord’s soon coming. Wolff was born in Germany, of Hebrew parentage, his father being a
Jewish rabbi. While very young, he was convinced of the truth of the Christian religion. Of
an active, inquiring mind, he had been an eager listener to the conversations that took place
in his father’s house, as devout Hebrews daily assembled to recount the hopes and anticipations
of their people, the glory of the coming Messiah, and the restoration of Israel. One day hearing
Jesus of Nazareth mentioned, the boy inquired who He was. “A Jew of the greatest talent,” was
the answer; “but as He pretended to be the Messiah, the Jewish tribunal sentenced Him to death.”
“Why,” rejoined the questioner, “is Jerusalem destroyed, and why are we in captivity?” “Alas,
alas!” answered his father, “because the Jews murdered the prophets.” The thought was at once
suggested to the child, “Perhaps Jesus was also a prophet, and the Jews killed Him when He
was innocent.”(593) So strong was this feeling, that though forbidden to enter a Christian
church, he would often linger outside to listen to the preaching.

When only seven years old, he was boasting to an aged Christian neighbor of the future triumph
of Israel at the advent of the Messiah, when the old man said kindly, “Dear boy, I will tell
you who the real Messiah was: He was Jesus of Nazareth, ... whom your ancestors have crucified,
as they did the prophets of old. Go home and read the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah, and you
will be convinced that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”(594) Conviction at once fastened upon
him. He went home and read the scripture, wondering to see how perfectly it had been fulfilled
in Jesus of Nazareth. Were the words of the Christian true? The boy asked of his father an
explanation of the prophecy, but was met with a silence so stern that he never again dared
to refer to the subject. This, however, only increased his desire to know more of the Christian
religion.

The knowledge he sought was studiously kept from him in his Jewish home; but when only eleven
years old, he left his father’s house, and went out into the world to gain for himself an education,
to choose his religion and his life-work. He found a home for a time with kinsmen, but was
soon driven from them as an apostate, and alone and penniless he had to make his own way among
strangers. He went from place to place, studying diligently, and maintaining himself by teaching
Hebrew. Through the influence of a Catholic instructor, he was led to accept the Romish faith,
and formed the purpose of becoming a missionary to his own people. With this object he went,
a few years later, to pursue his studies in the College of the Propaganda at Rome. Here his
habit of independent thought and candid speech brought upon him the imputation of heresy. He
openly attacked the abuses of the church, and urged the necessity of reform. Though at first
treated with special favor by the papal dignitaries, he was after a time removed from Rome.
Under the surveillance of the church he went from place to place, until it became evident that
he could never be brought to submit to the bondage of Romanism. He was declared to be incorrigible,
and was left at liberty to go where he pleased. He now made his way to England, and professing
the Protestant faith, united with the English Church. After two years’ study he set out, in
1821, upon his mission. While Wolff accepted the great truth of Christ’s first advent as “a
man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief,” he saw that the prophecies bring to view with equal
clearness His second advent with power and glory. And while he sought to lead his people to
Jesus of Nazareth as the Promised One, and to point them to His first coming in humiliation
as a sacrifice for the sins of men, he taught them also of His second coming as a king and
deliverer.

“Jesus of Nazareth, the true Messiah,” he said, “whose hands and feet were pierced, who was
brought like a lamb to the slaughter, who was the Man of sorrows and acquainted with grief,
who after the scepter was taken from Judah, and the legislative power from between his feet,
came the first time; shall come the second time in the clouds of heaven, and with the trump
of the Archangel,”(595) “and shall stand upon the Mount of Olives; and that dominion, once
consigned to Adam over the creation, and forfeited by him (Gen. 1:26; 3:17), shall be given
to Jesus. He shall be king over all the earth. The groanings and lamentations of the creation
shall cease, but songs of praises and thanksgivings shall be heard.... When Jesus comes in
the glory of His Father, with the holy angels, ... the dead believers shall rise first. 1 Thess.
4:16; 1 Cor. 15: 23. This is what we Christians call the first resurrection. Then the animal
kingdom shall change its nature (Isa. 11:6-9), and be subdued unto Jesus. Psalm 8. Universal
peace shall prevail.”(596) “The Lord again shall look down upon the earth, and say, ‘Behold,
it is very good.’ ”(597)

Wolff believed the coming of the Lord to be at hand, his interpretation of the prophetic periods
placing the great consummation within a very few years of the time pointed out by Miller. To
those who urged from the scripture, “Of that day and hour knoweth no man,” that men are to
know nothing concerning the nearness of the advent, Wolff replied: “Did our Lord say that that
day and hour should never be known? Did He not give us signs of the times, in order that we
may know at least the approach of His coming, as one knows the approach of the summer by the
fig-tree putting forth its leaves? Matt. 24:32. Are we never to know that period, whilst He
Himself exhorteth us not only to read Daniel the prophet, but to understand it? and in that
very Daniel, where it is said that the words were shut up to the time of the end (which was
the case in his time), and that ‘many shall run to and fro’ (a Hebrew expression for observing
and thinking upon the time), ‘and knowledge’ (regarding that time) ‘shall be increased.’ Dan.
12:4. Besides this, our Lord does not intend to say by this, that the approach of the time
shall not be known, but that the exact ‘day and hour knoweth no man.’ Enough, He does say,
shall be known by the signs of the times, to induce us to prepare for His coming, as Noah prepared
the ark.”(598)

Concerning the popular system of interpreting, or misinterpreting, the Scriptures, Wolff wrote:
“The greater part of the Christian church have swerved from the plain sense of Scripture, and
have turned to the phantomizing system of the Buddhists, who believe that the future happiness
of mankind will consist in moving about in the air, and suppose that when they are reading
Jews, they must understand Gentiles; and when they read Jerusalem, they must understand the
church; and if it is said earth, it means sky; and for the coming of the Lord they must understand
the progress of the missionary societies; and going up to the mountain of the Lord’s house,
signifies a grand class-meeting of Methodists.”(599)

During the twenty-four years from 1821 to 1845, Wolff traveled extensively: in Africa, visiting
Egypt and Abyssinia; in Asia, traversing Palestine, Syria, Persia, Bokhara, and India. He also
visited the United States, on the journey thither preaching on the island of St. Helena. He
arrived in New York in August, 1837; and after speaking in that city, he preached in Philadelphia
and Baltimore, and finally proceeded to Washington. Here, he says, “on a motion brought forward
by the ex-president, John Quincy Adams, in one of the houses of Congress, the House unanimously
granted to me the use of the Congress Hall for a lecture, which I delivered on a Saturday,
honored with the presence of all the members of Congress, and also of the bishop of Virginia,
and of the clergy and citizens of Washington. The same honor was granted to me by the members
of the government of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, in whose presence I delivered lectures on
my researches in Asia, and also on the personal reign of Jesus Christ.”(600)

Dr. Wolff traveled in the most barbarous countries, without the protection of any European
authority, enduring many hardships, and surrounded with countless perils. He was bastinadoed
and starved, sold as a slave, and three times condemned to death. He was beset by robbers,
and sometimes nearly perished from thirst. Once he was stripped of all that he possessed, and
left to travel hundreds of miles on foot through the mountains, the snow beating in his face,
and his naked feet benumbed by contact with the frozen ground.

When warned against going unarmed among savage and hostile tribes, he declared himself “provided
with arms,”—“prayer, zeal for Christ, and confidence in His help.” “I am also,” he said, “provided
with the love of God and my neighbor in my heart, and the Bible is in my hand.”(601) The Bible
in Hebrew and English he carried with him wherever he went. Of one of his later journeys he
says, “I ... kept the Bible open in my hand. I felt my power was in the book, and that its
might would sustain me.”(602)

Thus he persevered in his labors until the message of the judgment had been carried to a large
part of the habitable globe. Among Jews, Turks, Parsees, Hindoos, and many other nationalities
and races, he distributed the word of God in these various tongues, and everywhere heralded
the approaching reign of the Messiah.

In his travels in Bokhara he found the doctrine of the Lord’s soon coming held by a remote
and isolated people. The Arabs of Yemen, he says, “are in possession of a book called ‘Seera,’
which gives notice of the second coming of Christ and His reign in glory; and they expect great
events to take place in the year 1840.”(603) “In Yemen ... I spent six days with the children
of Rechab. They drink no wine, plant no vineyard, sow no seed, and live in tents, and remember
good old Jonadab, the son of Rechab; and I found in their company children of Israel, of the
tribe of Dan, ... who expect, with the children of Rechab, the speedy arrival of the Messiah
in the clouds of heaven.”(604)

A similar belief was found by another missionary to exist in Tartary. A Tartar priest put the
question to the missionary, as to when Christ would come the second time. When the missionary
answered that he knew nothing about it, the priest seemed greatly surprised at such ignorance
in one who professed to be a Bible teacher, and stated his own belief, founded on prophecy,
that Christ would come about 1844.

As early as 1826 the advent message began to be preached in England. The movement here did
not take so definite a form as in America; the exact time of the advent was not so generally
taught, but the great truth of Christ’s soon coming in power and glory was extensively proclaimed.
And this not among the dissenters and non-conformists only. Mourant Brock, an English writer,
states that about seven hundred ministers of the Church of England were engaged in preaching
this “gospel of the kingdom.” The message pointing to 1844 as the time of the Lord’s coming
was also given in Great Britain. Advent publications from the United States were widely circulated.
Books and journals were republished in England. And in 1842, Robert Winter, an Englishman by
birth, who had received the advent faith in America, returned to his native country to herald
the coming of the Lord. Many united with him in the work, and the message of the judgment was
proclaimed in various parts of England.

In South America, in the midst of barbarism and priestcraft, Lacunza, a Spaniard and a Jesuit,
found his way to the Scriptures, and thus received the truth of Christ’s speedy return. Impelled
to give the warning, yet desiring to escape the censures of Rome, he published his views under
the assumed name of “Rabbi Ben-Israel,” representing himself as a converted Jew. Lacunza lived
in the eighteenth century, but it was about 1825 that his book, having found its way to London,
was translated into the English language. Its publication served to deepen the interest already
awakening in England in the subject of the second advent.

In Germany the doctrine had been taught in the eighteenth century by Bengel, a minister in
the Lutheran Church, and a celebrated biblical scholar and critic. Upon completing his education,
Bengel had “devoted himself to the study of theology, to which the grave and religious tone
of his mind, deepened and strengthened by his early training and discipline, naturally inclined
him. Like other young men of thoughtful character, before and since, he had to struggle with
doubts and difficulties of a religious nature, and he alludes, with much feeling, to the ‘many
arrows which pierced his poor heart, and made his youth hard to bear.’ ”(605) Becoming a member
of the consistory of Würtemberg, he advocated the cause of religious liberty. “While maintaining
the rights and privileges of the church, he was an advocate for all reasonable freedom being
accorded to those who felt themselves bound, on grounds of conscience, to withdraw from her
communion.”(606) The good effects of this policy are still felt in his native province.

It was while preparing a sermon from Revelation 21 for “Advent Sunday” that the light of Christ’s
second coming broke in upon Bengel’s mind. The prophecies of the Revelation unfolded to his
understanding as never before. Overwhelmed with a sense of the stupendous importance and surpassing
glory of the scenes presented by the prophet, he was forced to turn for a time from the contemplation
of the subject. In the pulpit it again presented itself to him with all its vividness and power.
From that time he devoted himself to the study of the prophecies, especially those of the Apocalypse,
and soon arrived at the belief that they pointed to the coming of Christ as near. The date
which he fixed upon as the time of the second advent was within a very few years of that afterward
held by Miller.

Bengel’s writings have been spread throughout Christendom. His views of prophecy were quite
generally received in his own state of Würtemberg, and to some extent in other parts of Germany.
The movement continued after his death, and the advent message was heard in Germany at the
same time that it was attracting attention in other lands. At an early date some of the believers
went to Russia, and there formed colonies, and the faith of Christ’s soon coming is still held
by the German churches of that country.

The light shone also in France and Switzerland. At Geneva, where Farel and Calvin had spread
the truths of the Reformation, Gaussen preached the message of the second advent. While a student
at school, Gaussen had encountered that spirit of rationalism which pervaded all Europe during
the latter part of the eighteenth and the opening of the nineteenth century; and when he entered
the ministry he was not only ignorant of true faith, but inclined to skepticism. In his youth
he had become interested in the study of prophecy. After reading Rollin’s “Ancient History,”
his attention was called to the second chapter of Daniel, and he was struck with the wonderful
exactness with which the prophecy had been fulfilled, as seen in the historian’s record. Here
was a testimony to the inspiration of the Scriptures, which served as an anchor to him amid
the perils of later years. He could not rest satisfied with the teachings of rationalism, and
in studying the Bible and searching for clearer light he was, after a time, led to a positive
faith.

As he pursued his investigation of the prophecies, he arrived at the belief that the coming
of the Lord was at hand. Impressed with the solemnity and importance of this great truth, he
desired to bring it before the people; but the popular belief that the prophecies of Daniel
are mysteries and cannot be understood, was a serious obstacle in his way. He finally determined—as
Farel had done before him in evangelizing Geneva—to begin with the children, through whom he
hoped to interest the parents.

“I desire this to be understood,” he afterward said, speaking of his object in this undertaking,
“it is not because of its small importance, but on the contrary because of its great value,
that I wished to present it in this familiar form, and that I addressed it to the children.
I desired to be heard, and I feared that I would not be if I addressed myself to the grown
people first.” “I determined therefore to go to the youngest. I gather an audience of children;
if the group enlarges, if it is seen that they listen, are pleased, interested, that they understand
and explain the subject, I am sure to have a second circle soon, and in their turn, grown people
will see that it is worth their while to sit down and study. When this is done, the cause is
gained.”(607)

The effort was successful. As he addressed the children, older persons came to listen. The
galleries of his church were filled with attentive hearers. Among them were men of rank and
learning, and strangers and foreigners visiting Geneva; and thus the message was carried to
other parts.

Encouraged by this success, Gaussen published his lessons, with the hope of promoting the study
of the prophetic books in the churches of the French-speaking people. “To publish instruction
given to the children,” says Gaussen, “is to say to adults, who too often neglect such books
under the false pretense that they are obscure, ‘How can they be obscure, since your children
understand them?’ ” “I had a great desire,” he adds, “to render a knowledge of the prophecies
popular in our flocks, if possible.” “There is no study, indeed, which it seems to me answers
the needs of the time better.” “It is by this that we are to prepare for the tribulation near
at hand, and watch and wait for Jesus Christ.”

