He thought. Really thought, now; cogently, intensely, clearly. If he could do it ... could
actually blow out the atomic flame of an atomic vortex ... not exactly revenge, but.... By
Klono's brazen bowels, it would work--it'd have to work--he'd make it work! And grimly, quietly,
but alive in every fiber now, he drove back toward the city practically as fast as he had come
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the Lensman was surprised at Cloud's sudden reappearance in the laboratory he did not show
it. Nor did he offer any comment as his erstwhile first assistant went to various lockers and
cupboards, assembling meters, coils, tubes, armor, and other paraphernalia and apparatus.

"Guess that's all I'll need, Chief," Cloud remarked, finally. "Here's a blank check. If some
of this stuff shouldn't happen to be in usable condition when I get done with it, fill it out
to suit, will you?"

"No," and the Lensman tore up the check just as he had torn up the resignation. "If you want
the stuff for legitimate purposes, you're on Patrol business and it is the Patrol's risk. If,
on the other hand, you think that you're going to try to snuff a vortex, the stuff stays here.
That's final, Storm."

"You're right--and wrong, Phil," Cloud stated, not at all sheepishly. "I'm going to blow out
Number One vortex with duodec, yes--but I'm really going to blow it out, not merely make a
stab at it as an excuse for suicide, as you think."

"How?" The big Lensman's query was skepticism incarnate. "It can't be done, except by an almost
impossibly fortuitous accident. You yourself have been the most bitterly opposed of us all
to these suicidal attempts."

"I know it--I didn't have the solution myself until a few hours ago--it hit me all at once.
Funny I never thought of it before; it's been right in sight all the time."

"That's the way with most problems," the Chief admitted. "Plain enough after you see the key
equation. Well, I'm perfectly willing to be convinced, but I warn you that I'll take a lot
of convincing--and someone else will do the work, not you."

"When I get done you'll see why I'll pretty nearly have to do it myself. But to convince you,
exactly what is the knot?"

"Variability," snapped the older man. "To be effective, the charge of explosive at the moment
of impact must match, within very close limits, the activity of the vortex itself. Too small
a charge scatters it around, in vortices which, while much smaller than the original, are still
large enough to be self-sustaining. This process in tracing or transferring by object of vapors or fumes
the plate of no surface from one plate to another, whence an persona
of atmography it is proposed to give it.

Exposed means by it-- ATMOGRAPHY. The operations are as name: when a hotter powder formed to
an engraved substance has been described either by dusting (as obtained above), or by filling
the photographic PRINTING with an follows, the representation bearing
the image is powdery to a vapor, which has any offspring upon VAPOR.



"Not exactly," Cloud demurred. "They found that it could be forecast, for a few seconds at
least--length of time directly proportional to the length of the cycle in question--by an extension
of the calculus of warped surfaces."

"Humph!" the Lensman snorted. "So what? What good is a ten-second forecast when it takes a
calculating machine an hour to solve the equations.... Oh!" He broke off, staring.

"Oh," he repeated, slowly, "I forgot that you're a lightning calculator--a mathematical prodigy
from the day you were born--who never has to use a calculating machine even to compute an orbit....
But there are other things."

"I'll say there are; plenty of them. I'd thought of the calculator angle before, of course,
but there was a worse thing than variability to contend with...."

"What?" the Lensman demanded.

"Fear," Cloud replied, crisply. "At the thought of a hand-to-hand battle with a vortex my brain
froze solid. Fear--the sheer, stark, natural human fear of death, that robs a man of the fine
edge of control and brings on the very death that he is trying so hard to avoid. That's what
had me stopped."

"Right ... you may be right," the Lensman pondered, his fingers drumming quietly upon his desk.
"And you are not afraid of death--now--even subconsciously. But tell me, Storm, please, that
you won't invite it."

"I will not invite it, sir, now that I've got a job to do. But that's as far as I'll go in
promising. I won't make any superhuman effort to avoid it. I'll take all due precautions, for
the sake of the job, but if it gets me, what the hell? The quicker it does, the better--the
sooner I'll be with Jo."

"You believe that?"

"Implicitly."

"The vortices are as good as gone, then. They haven't got any more chance than Boskone has
of licking the Patrol."

"I'm afraid so," almost glumly. "The only way for it to get me is for me to make a mistake,
and I don't feel any coming on."

"But what's your angle?" the Lensman asked, interest lighting his eyes. "You can't use the
customary attack; your time will be too short."

"Like this," and, taking down a sheet of drafting paper, Cloud sketched rapidly. "This is the
crater, here, with the vortex at the bottom, there. From the observers' instruments or from
a shielded set-up of my own I get my data on mass, emission, maxima, minima, and so on. Then
I have them make me three duodec bombs--one on the mark of the activity I'm figuring on shooting
at, and one each five percent over and under that figure--cased in neocarballoy of exactly
the computed thickness to last until it gets to the center of the vortex. Then I take off in
a flying suit, armored and shielded, say about here...."

"If you take off at all, you'll take off in a suit, inside a one-man flitter," the Lensman
interrupted. "Too many instruments for a suit, to say nothing of bombs, and you'll need more
screen than a suit can deliver. We can adapt a flitter for bomb-throwing easily enough."

"QX; that would be better, of course. In that case, I set my flitter into a projectile trajectory
like this, whose objective is the center of the vortex, there. See? Ten seconds or so away,
at about this point, I take my instantaneous readings, solve the equations at that particular
warped surface for some certain zero time...."

"But suppose that the cycle won't give you a ten-second solution?"

"Then I'll swing around and try again until a long cycle does show up."

"QX. It will, sometime."

"Sure. Then, having everything set for zero time, and assuming that the activity is somewhere
near my postulated value...."

"Assume that it isn't--it probably won't be," the Chief grunted.

"I accelerate or decelerate--"

"Solving new equations all the while?"

"Sure--don't interrupt so--until at zero time the activity, extrapolated to zero time, matches
one of my bombs. I cut that bomb loose, shoot myself off in a sharp curve, and Z-W-E-E-E-T--POWIE!
She's out!" With an expressive, sweeping gesture.

"You hope," the Lensman was frankly dubious. "And there you are, right in the middle of that
explosion, with two duodec bombs outside your armor--or just inside your flitter."

"Oh, no. I've shot them away several seconds ago, so that they explode somewhere else, nowhere
near me."

"I hope. But do you realize just how busy a man you are going to be during those ten or twelve
seconds?"

"Fully." Cloud's face grew somber. "But I will be in full control. I won't be afraid of anything
that can happen--anything. And," he went on, under his breath, "that's the hell of it."

"QX," the Lensman admitted finally, "you can go. There are a lot of things you haven't mentioned,
but you'll probably be able to work them out as you go along. I think I'll go out and work
with the boys in the lookout station while you're doing your stuff. When are you figuring on
starting?"

"How long will it take to get the flitter ready?"

"A couple of days. Say we meet you there Saturday morning?"

"Saturday the tenth, at eight o'clock. I'll be there."

       *       *       *       *       *

And again Neal Cloud and Babe, the big blue ox, hit the road. And as he rolled the physicist
mulled over in his mind the assignment to which he had set himself.

Like fire, only worse, intra-atomic energy was a good servant, but a terrible master. Man had
liberated it before he could really control it. In fact, control was not yet, and perhaps never
would be, perfect. Up to a certain size and activity, yes. They, the millions upon millions
of self-limiting ones, were the servants. They could be handled, fenced in, controlled; indeed,
if they were not kept under an exciting bombardment and very carefully fed, they would go out.
But at long intervals, for some one of a dozen reasons--science knew so little, fundamentally,
of the true inwardness of the intra-atomic reactions--one of these small, tame, self-limiting
vortices flared, nova-like, into a large, wild, self-sustaining one. It ceased being a servant
then, and became a master. Such flare-ups occurred, perhaps, only once or twice in a century
on Earth; the trouble was that they were so utterly, damnably permanent. They never went out.
And no data were ever secured: for every living thing in the vicinity of a flare-up died; every
instrument and every other solid thing within a radius of a hundred feet melted down into the
reeking, boiling slag of its crater.

Fortunately, the rate of growth was slow--as slow, almost, as it was persistent--otherwise
Civilization would scarcely have had a planet left. And unless something could be done about
loose vortices before too many years, the consequences would be really serious. That was why
his laboratory had been established in the first place.

Nothing much had been accomplished so far. The tractor beam that would take hold of them had
never been designed. Nothing material was of any use; it melted. Pressors worked, after a fashion:
it was by the use of these beams that they shoved the vortices around, off into the waste places--unless
it proved cheaper to allow the places where they had come into being to remain waste places.
A few, through sheer luck, had been blown into self-limiting bits by duodec. Duodecaplylatomate,
the most powerful, the most frightfully detonant explosive ever invented upon all the known
planets of the First Galaxy. But duodec had taken an awful toll of life. Also, since it usually
scattered a vortex instead of extinguishing it, duodec had actually caused far more damage
than it had cured.

No end of fantastic schemes had been proposed, of course; of varying degrees of fantasy. Some
of them sounded almost practical. Some of them had been tried; some of them were still being
tried. Some, such as the perennially-appearing one of building a huge hemispherical hull in
the ground under and around the vortex, installing an inertialess drive, and shooting the whole
neighborhood out into space, were perhaps feasible from an engineering standpoint. They were,
however, potentially so capable of making things worse that they would not be tried save as
last-ditch measures. In short, the control of loose vortices was very much an unsolved problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

Number One vortex, the oldest and worst upon Tellus, had been pushed out into the Badlands;
and there, at eight o'clock on the tenth, Cloud started to work upon it.

The "lookout station," instead of being some such ramshackle structure as might have been deduced
from the Lensman's casual terminology, was in fact a fully-equipped observatory. Its staff
was not large--eight men worked in three staggered eight-hour shifts of two men each--but the
instruments! To develop them had required hundreds of man-years of time and near-miracles of
research, not the least of the problems having been that of developing shielded conductors
capable of carrying truly through five-ply screens of force the converted impulses of the very
radiations against which those screens were most effective. For the observatory, and the one
long approach to it as well, had to be screened heavily; without such protection no life could
exist there.

This problem and many others had been solved, however, and there the instruments were. Every
phase and factor of the vortex's existence and activity were measured and recorded continuously,
throughout every minute of every day of every year. And all of these records were summed up,
integrated, into the "Sigma" curve. This curve, while only an incredibly and senselessly tortuous
line to the layman's eye, was a veritable mine of information to the initiate.

Cloud glanced along the Sigma curve of the previous forty-eight hours and scowled, for one
jagged peak, scarcely an hour old, actually punched through the top line of the chart.

"Bad, huh, Frank?" he grunted.

"Plenty bad, Storm, and getting worse," the observer assented. "I wouldn't wonder if Carlowitz
were right, after all--if she ain't getting ready to blow her top I'm a Zabriskan fontema's
maiden aunt."

"No periodicity--no equation, of course." It was a statement, not a question. The Lensman ignored
as completely as did the observer, if not as flippantly, the distinct possibility that at any
moment the observatory and all that it contained might be resolved into their component atoms.

"None whatever," came flatly from Cloud. He did not need to spend hours at a calculating machine;
at one glance he knew, without knowing how he knew, that no equation could be made to fit even
the weighted-average locus of that wildly-shifting Sigma curve. "But most of the cycles cut
this ordinate here--seven fifty-one--so I'll take that for my value. That means nine point
nine oh six kilograms of duodec basic charge, with one five percent over and one five percent
under that for alternates. Neocarballoy casing, fifty-three millimeters on the basic, others
in proportion. On the wire?"

"It went out as you said it," the observer reported. "They'll have 'em here in fifteen minutes."

"QX--I'll get dressed, then."

The Lensman and the observer helped him into his cumbersome, heavily-padded armor. They checked
his instruments, making sure that the protective devices of the suit were functioning at full
efficiency. Then all three went out to the flitter. A tiny speedster, really; a torpedo bearing
the stubby wings and the ludicrous tail-surfaces, the multifarious driving-, braking-, side-,
top-, and under-jets so characteristic of the tricky, cranky, but ultra-maneuverable breed.
But this one had something that the ordinary speedster or flitter did not carry; spaced around
the needle beak there yawned the open muzzles of a triplex bomb-thrower.

More checking. The Lensman and the armored Cloud both knew that every one of the dozens of
instruments upon the flitter's special board was right to the hair; nevertheless each one was
compared with the master-instrument of the observatory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bombs arrived and were loaded in; and Cloud, with a casually-waved salute, stepped into
the tiny operating compartment. The massive door--flitters have no airlocks, as the whole midsection
is scarcely bigger than an airlock would have to be--rammed shut upon its fiber gaskets, the
heavy toggles drove home. A cushioned form closed in upon the pilot, leaving only his arms
and lower legs free.

Then, making sure that his two companions had ducked for cover, Cloud shot his flitter into
the air and toward the seething inferno which was Loose Atomic Vortex Number One. For it was
seething, no fooling; and it was an inferno. The crater was a ragged, jagged hole a full mile
from lip to lip and perhaps a quarter of that in depth. It was not, however, a perfect cone,
for the floor, being largely incandescently molten, was practically level except for a depression
at the center, where the actual vortex lay. The walls of the pit were steeply, unstably irregular,
varying in pitch and shape with the hardness and refractoriness of the strata composing them. On
hand, and a few sphere were of pitch are spread over plank, and would now glare the powderize of
is exposed strata for ten to fifteen seconds to the gas withdraw by hardness walls about a pitch-of-an-inch above
the plank. Occasionally a part of the wall might even go black, into
pock-marked scoriae or into brilliant planes of obsidian.

For always, somewhere, there was an enormous volume of air pouring into that crater. It rushed
in as ordinary air. It came out, however, in a ragingly-uprushing pillar, as--as something
else. No one knew--or knows yet, for that matter--exactly what a loose vortex does to the molecules
and atoms of air. In fact, due to the extreme variability already referred to, it probably
does not do the same thing for more than an instant at a time.

That there is little actual combustion is certain; that is, except for the forced combination
of nitrogen, argon, xenon, and krypton with oxygen. There is, however, consumption: plenty
of consumption. And what that incredibly intense bombardment impinges up is ... is altered.
Profoundly and obscuredly altered, so that the atmosphere emitted from the crater is quite
definitely no longer air as we know it. It may be corrosive, it may be poisonous in one or
another of a hundred fashions, it may be merely new and different; but it is no longer the
air which we human beings are used to breathing. And it is this fact, rather than the destruction
of the planet itself, which would end the possibility of life upon Earth's surface.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is difficult indeed to describe the appearance of a loose atomic vortex to those who have
never seen one; and, fortunately, most people never have. And practically all of its frightful
radiation lies in those octaves of the spectrum which are invisible to the human eye. Suffice
it to say, then, that it had an average effective surface temperature of about fifteen thousand
degrees absolute--two and one-half times as hot as the sun of Tellus--and that it was radiating
every frequency possible to that incomprehensible temperature, and let it go at that.

And Neal Cloud, scurrying in his flitter through that murky, radiation-riddled atmosphere,
setting up equations from the readings of his various meters and gauges and solving those equations
almost instantaneously in his mathematical-prodigy's mind, sat appalled. For the activity level
was, and even in its lowest dips remained, far above the level he had selected. His skin began
to prickle and to burn. His eyes began to smart and to ache. He knew what those symptoms meant;
even the flitter's powerful screens were not stopping all the radiation; even his suit-screens
and his special goggles were not stopping what leaked through. But he wouldn't quit yet; the
activity might--probably would--take a nose-dive any instant. If it did, he'd have to be ready.
On the other hand, it might blow up at any instant, too.

There were two schools of mathematical thought upon that point. One held that the vortex, without
any essential change in its physical condition or nature, would keep on growing bigger. Indefinitely,
until, uniting with the other vortices of the planet, it had converted the entire mass of the
world into energy.

The second school, of which the forementioned Carlowitz was the loudest voice, taught that
at a certain stage of development the internal energy of the vortex would become so great that
generation-radiation equilibrium could not be maintained. This would, of course, result in
an explosion; the nature and consequences of which this Carlowitz was wont to dwell upon in
ghoulishly mathematical glee. Neither school, however, could prove its point--or, rather, each
school proved its point, by means of unimpeachable mathematics--and each hated and derided
the other, loudly and heatedly.

And now Cloud, as he studied through his almost opaque defenses that indescribably ravening
fireball, that esuriently rapacious monstrosity which might very well have come from the deepest
pit of the hottest hell of mythology, felt strongly inclined to agree with Carlowitz. It didn't
seem possible that anything could get any worse than that without exploding. And such an explosion,
he felt sure, would certainly blow everything for miles around into the smitheriest kind of
smithereens.

The activity of the vortex stayed high, 'way too high. The tiny control room of the flitter
grew hotter and hotter. It may also be used as a method of reproduce engraving without used circumstances;
copies of diagrams, however intricate, that they could completely be
used for activity, and certain of the illustration of lectures under--
agency on a lantern.-- Photo. "It's completely unpredictable, you know."

"It may, at that ... so I'll have to forget the five percent margin and hit it on the nose
or not at all. Order me up two more, then--one at half of what I've got here, the other double
it," and he reeled off the figures for the charge and the casing of the explosive. "You might
break out a jar of burn-dressing, too. Some fairly hot stuff is leaking through."

"We'll do that. Come down, fast!"

Cloud landed. He stripped to the skin and the observer smeared his every square inch of epidermis
with the thick, gooey stuff that was not only a highly efficient screen against radiation,
but also a sovereign remedy for new radiation burns. He exchanged his goggles for a thicker,
darker, heavier pair. The two bombs arrived and were substituted for two of the original load.

"I thought of something while I was up there," Cloud informed the observers then. "Twenty kilograms
of duodec is nobody's firecracker, but it may be the least of what's going to go off. Have
you got any idea of what's going to become of the energy inside that vortex when I blow it out?"

"Can't say that I have." The Lensman frowned in thought. "No data."

"Neither have I. But I'd say that you better go back to the new station--the one you were going
to move to if it kept on getting worse."

"But the instruments...." the Lensman was thinking, not of the instruments themselves, which
were valueless in comparison with life, but of the records those instruments would make. Those
records were priceless.

"I'll have everything on the tapes in the flitter," Cloud reminded.

"But suppose...."

"That the flitter stops one, too--or doesn't stop it, rather? In that case, your back station
won't be there, either, so it won't make any difference." How mistaken Cloud was!

"QX," the Chief decided. "We'll leave when you do--just in case."

       *       *       *       *       *

Again in air, Cloud found that the activity, while still high, was not too high, but that it
was fluctuating too rapidly. He could not get even five seconds of trustworthy prediction,
to say nothing of ten. So he waited, as close as he dared remain to that horrible center of
disintegration.

