She shook her head. "I have the key, but there's not a stick of furniture in the place. We
had a village auction last week and got rid of everything that we didn't plan on taking with
us." She sighed. "Well, there's nothing for it, I guess. The nearest motel is thirty miles
away, so I'll have to put you up at my house. I have a few articles of furniture left--wedding
gifts, mostly, that I was too sentimental to part with." She got into the car. "Come on, Zarathustra."

Zarathustra clambered in, leaped across her lap and sat down between them. Philip pulled away
from the curb. "That's an odd name for a dog," he said.

"I know. I guess the reason I gave it to him is because he puts me in mind of a little old
man sometimes."

"But the original Zarathustra isn't noted for his longevity."

"Perhaps another association was at work then. Turn right at the next corner."

A lonely light burned in one of number 23 Locust Street's three front windows. Its source,
however, was not an incandescent bulb, but the mantle of a gasoline lantern. "The village power-supply
was shut off yesterday," Judith Darrow explained, pumping the lantern into renewed brightness.
She glanced at him sideways. "Did you have dinner?"

"As a matter of fact--no. But please don't--"

"Bother? I couldn't if I wanted to. My larder is on its last legs. But sit down, and I'll make
you some sandwiches. I'll make a pot of coffee too--the gas hasn't been turned off yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

The living room had precisely three articles of furniture to its name--two armchairs and a
coffee table. After Judith left him, Philip set his brief case on the floor and sat down in
one of the chairs. He wondered idly how she expected to make the trip to Pfleugersville. He
had seen no car in the driveway, and there was no garage on the property in which one could
be concealed. Moreover, it was highly unlikely that buses serviced the village any more. Valleyview
had been bypassed quite some time ago by one of the new super-duper highways. He shrugged.
Getting to Pfleugersville was her problem, not his.

He returned his attention to the living room. It was a large room. The house was large, too--large
and Victorianesque. Judith, apparently, had opened the back door, for a breeze was wafting
through the downstairs rooms--a breeze laden with the scent of flowers and the dew-damp breath
of growing grass. He frowned. The month was October, not June, and since when did flowers bloom
and grass grow in October? He concluded that the scent must be artificial.

Zarathustra was regarding him with large golden eyes from the middle of the living-room floor.
The animal did somehow bring to mind a little old man, although he could not have been more
than two or three years old. "You're not very good company," Philip said.

"Ruf," said Zarathustra, and turning, trotted through an archway into a large room that, judging
from the empty shelves lining its walls, had once been a library, and thence through another
archway into another room--the dining room, undoubtedly--and out of sight.

