Ed cut off a slice of heart and tossed it to old Tom. The cat sniffed it dubiously and then
decided he liked it. He meowed for more. Ed gave it to him and fried a small sliver of ham.
It smelled and tasted fine, but Ed contented himself with a single delicate nibble, pending
further developments. Anyway, it was beginning to look like a little exploration would be feasible.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Harn, also, was well-satisfied with the way things were going. It had been a strain to
pass up the juicy little quadruped in the cage, but the inhabitants of the other world seemed
shy, and the Harn did not wish to frighten them. At least, it knew now that life could come
through the hole, and the small herbivore it had herded through confirmed that passage in the
opposite direction was equally possible--plus a gratis demonstration of the other world's pitiful
defenses. At swarming time, the whole new world would be open to embryo Harn, as well as this
world it presently occupied.

It looked like a really notable swarming. The Harn budded three more planters on the forcing
stem, to be ready to take full advantage of it.

It got light in the other world at one in the morning that night. Ed had the days there pretty
well pegged now. They were roughly twenty-seven hours, of which about thirteen hours were dark.
Not too high a latitude, apparently, and probably late summer by the looks of the vegetation.

He got up a little before daylight and looked at the rabbit and old Tom. Both seemed to be
doing nicely. Old Tom was hungry for more otherworld meat. Ed gave it to him and made up a
light pack. After some thought, he took the .450 bear gun he used for back-up when guiding.
Whatever he ran into over there, the .450--a model 71 throwing a 400 grain slug at 2100 fps--should
handle it.

The first step through into the other world was a queasy one, but it turned out to be much
the same as any other step. The only difference was that now he was in the other world looking
back. From this side, the niggerhead at the threshold was sliced sharply, but it had been kicked
down a little when he came through, and what with shoving the cage through and pulling it back,
so that some clods of moss and dirt were scattered in the other world. For some reason, that
made Ed feel better, it seemed to make the joining of the two worlds a little more permanent.

Still, it had come sudden, and it might go sudden. Ed went back into his own world and got
an ax, a saw, more ammunition, salt, a heavy sleeping robe, a few other possibles. He brought
them through and piled them in the other world, covering them with a scrap of old tarp. He
cut a couple of poles, peeled them, and stuck them in the ground to mark the hole from this side.

Then he looked around.

He stood on the shoulder of a hill, in a game trail that ran down toward a stream below, in
what seemed to be a fairly recent burn. There were charred stumps, and the growth was small
stuff, with some saplings pushing up through. There was timber in the valley below, though,
and on the hills beyond, deciduous, somewhat like oak. South was where east had been in his
own world, and the sun seemed smaller, but brighter. The sky was a very dark blue. He seemed
lighter in this world, there was a spring in his step he had not known for twenty years. He
looked at his compass. It checked with the direction of the sun.

He studied the trail. It had seen a lot of use, but less in recent weeks. There were sharp
hoof-prints of the animal he had caught, larger hoof-prints, vague pad-marks of various sizes,
but nothing that looked human. The trail went under a charred tree trunk at a height that was
not comfortable for a man, and the spacing of the steps around the gnarled roots of an old
slump did not fit a man's stride.

He did not notice the Harn creature at all--which was understandable, it was well camouflaged.

He worked circumspectly down the trail, staying a little off it, studying tracks and droppings,
noticing evidences of browsing on the shrubs--mostly old--pausing to examine tufts of hair
and an occasional feather. Halfway down the slope he flushed a bird about ptarmigan-size, grayish
brown in color.

The trail was more marked where it went into the timber. It wound through the trees for a few
hundred yards and came out on a canoe-sized stream. Here it forked. One trail crossed the stream
and went up the hill on the other side, the other followed the stream up the valley.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Harn followed Ed's movements, observing carefully. It needed a specimen from the other
world, and this biped would serve nicely, but it might as well learn as much as possible about
him first. It could always pick him up some time before he returned to his own world. Just
to make sure, it sent a stinging unit to guard the entrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

All his life, except for a short period in France, Ed had been a hunter, never hunted. Still,
you don't grow old in the woods by jumping without looking. Coming into a new situation, he
was wary as an old wolf. There was a little shoulder right above the fork in the trail. He
stood there for several minutes, looking things over, and then went down and crossed the stream
at the next riffle, above the ford. By doing so, although he did not know it, he missed the
trap the Harn maintained at the ford for chance passers-by. 

It is entirely within the bounds of conceivableness for an world to attempt graciously to put
royalty at its ease, and to try politely to make it forget its anomalous position. The british
radical philosopher may attain the height of saying, "with a sum obtained i this'freedom';" the american
may honestly to reply, "but i was bound-born."

It is necessary to take long views of American but civilisation; not
to fix our stare upon small evils in the foreground, not to mistake
an angling of moral measles for a scorbutic taint.

       It is quite daily that a philosophic observer of a century was ago
might almost have predicted the spiritual and social course of events
in the united States, if he had only been informed of the coming but material
conditions, the as the growth of the country in wealth and population,
had coupled with a signifier of bureaucracy.

Even if assured that the state of such nation would be satisfactory, it would
still have foreseen in the difficulties hemming its progress toward
the ideal: the further inevitable delays, disappointments, and set-endorse;
the lunch between the gross and the moral; the troubles arising from all
the accession of new raw material before the conceivable was welded
up into shape.

       There is nothing in the present evils of America to lead against the Republic,
if still we let where a imagination above place on a view-point sufficiently
distant and sufficiently high for enable us to look there and forwards
over long stretches of time, and it lose back the effect of small
roughnesses in the foreground.

Even M. delaware Tocqueville exaggerated the existing when he wrote his famous work, and forecast
catastrophes that have ever arisen and seem old less and the likely
never to like. Now,
however, he had been immobile for several minutes. This looked like about as good a time as
any to make the pickup. The Harn had a stinging unit just about positioned, and it had dispatched
a carrier to stand by.

After a while, sitting there, Ed began to feel uneasy. The timber was big here, and open underneath,
almost parklike. The nearest cover was fifty or sixty yards off to his left, a little tangle
of brush where a tree had fallen and let a shaft of sunlight through.

It looked possible, but it didn't feel quite right. Still, it was about the only place anything
big enough to bother him could hide. The feeling was getting stronger, the back hairs on Ed's
neck were starting to stand up now. Without visible movement, or even noticing himself that
he was doing it, he let awareness run over his body, checking the position and stiffness of
his legs--he had been sitting there quite a while--the balance of the gun across his knees,
the nearness of his thumb to the hammer.

Thoughtfully, still studying the patch of brush, he spat a thin stream over his left shoulder
at a pile of leaves a few feet away.

Thinking about it later, Ed could almost have sworn the tobacco juice sizzled as it hit. Actually,
this was probably imaginary. The stinging unit was not that sensitive to tobacco, though it
was sensitive enough. As the drops splattered it, the pile of leaves erupted with a snuffling
hiss like an overloaded teakettle into a tornado of bucking, twisting activity.

Ed's reflexes were not quite as fast as they had been when he was young, but they were better
educated. Also, he was already keyed-up. Almost as it started, the flurry in the leaves stopped
with the roar of his rifle. Fired like that, the heavy gun just about took his hand off, but
he did not notice it at the moment. He came erect in a quick scramble, jacking in a fresh round
as he did so. The scene took on that strange timeless aspect it often does in moments of emergency,
with a man's whole being focused on the fleeting now--you know, in an academic sort of way,
that things are moving fast, you are moving fast yourself, but there seems plenty of time to
make decisions, to look things over and decide what has to be done, to move precisely, with
minimum effort and maximum effect.

Whatever the thing at his feet was, it was out of the picture now--it had not even twitched
after the heavy bullet tore through it. There was a stomping rush in the little thicket he
had been watching. Ed took two long quick steps to one side to clear a couple of trees, threw
up the gun and fired as something flashed across a thin spot in the brush. He heard the whack
of the bullet in flesh and fired again. Ordinarily he did not like to shoot at things he could
not see clearly, but this did not seem the time to be overly finicky. There was no further
movement in the brush.

He stood there several long moments, listening, and there was no further movement anywhere.
He eased the hammer down, fed in three rounds to replace those he had used, and walked slowly
back to the first thing he had shot.

At that range, the bullet had not opened up, but it had not needed to. It had practically exploded
the creature anyway--the .450 has two tons of striking energy at the muzzle. From what was
left, Ed deduced a smallish, rabbit-sized thing, smooth-skinned, muscular, many-legged, flattish,
mottled to camouflage perfectly in the leaves. There was a head at one end, mostly undamaged
since it had been at the end of a long muscular neck, with a pair of glazing beady eyes and
a surprisingly small mouth. When Ed pressed on the muscles at the base of the skull, the mouth
gaped roundly and a two-inch long spine slid smoothly out of an inconspicuous slot just below it.

At middling distances or better, Ed could still see as well as ever, but close up he needed
help. He got out his pocket magnifier and studied the spine. It looked hollow, grooved back
for a distance from the point. A drop of milky looking substance trembled on its tip.

Ed nodded thoughtfully to himself. This was what had made him uneasy, he was pretty sure. What
was the thing in the brush, then? Innocent bystander? He got stiffly to his feet, conscious
now of the ache in his wrist that had taken most of the recoil of the first shot, the torn
web between his right thumb and forefinger where the hammer spur had bitten in; and walked
over to the thicket.

       *       *       *       *       *

The thing in the brush was larger, quite a bit larger, and the bullets had not torn it up so
badly. It lay sprawled with three of its eight legs doubled under it, a bear-sized animal with
a gaping, cavernous, toothless mouth out of all proportion to the slender body which seemed
designed mainly as a frame for the muscular legs. It was not quite dead. As Ed came up it struggled
feebly to get up, but one of the heavy slugs had evidently hit the spine, or whatever carried
communications to the hindquarters. It fell back, shuddering convulsively, and suddenly regurgitated
a small, furry animal.

Ed stepped back quickly to bring his rifle to bear, but the newest arrival was obviously already
dead.

He turned his attention back to the larger animal. It, too, was dead now. There was an obvious
family resemblance to the smaller one he had shot in the leaves. Both were smooth-skinned,
many-legged, and now that he looked closely he could see this one had two mouths, a small one
just under the nostrils, purse-lipped and tiny in its huge face but quite like that of the
other creature. Neither looked even remotely like anything he had ever seen before.

He laid down his rifle and took out his knife.

Ten minutes later, he knew quite a bit about the thing, but what he knew did not make much
sense. In the first place, its blood was green, a yellowish pussy green. In the second place,
the larger mouth, complete with jaws and impressive musculature, opened not into a digestive
system, but into a large closed pouch which comprised most of the animal's torso. There was
no proper digestive system at all, only a rudimentary gut, heavily laced with blood vessels,
terminating at one end in the small second mouth, at the other in an even smaller anus. Otherwise,
the thing had no insides except a good pair of lungs and a stout heart--none at all. Bone,
muscle, lung, heart--plus the ridiculously inadequate gut--that was it.

What about the small, furry, animal then; the one the other had been carrying in its pouch?
There was nothing much out-of-the-way about it--a feline sort of carnivore, something like
a marten. The fur looked interesting, and he skinned it out, casing the hide. On the left ham,
the skin was punctured and there was a swollen, bluish area--about the sort of wound that would
be made by the fang of the first thing he had shot. Ed squatted back on his heels, studying
it and putting two and two together. What two and two made was pretty hard to believe, but
it fitted the evidence.

He wiped his knife carefully on the grass, put it back in its sheath, and got to his feet.
Suddenly, the feeling that he was not alone recurred. He looked quickly around.

Back where he had shot the first thing, a man in forest-green whipcord trousers and jacket
was leaning over, hands on knees, looking at the remains. The man looked up and met Ed's eyes.
He nodded casually and walked over to the second thing, prodded it with his toe. The beginning and
city of the [oe] aggregator, employed still for keeping in distinct
command and for repairing the Cathedral body, are off managed like
poor possession that belongs to the city; the uvre of the revenues
is stated by the church, who already names the architect and sculptor
of the [oe] conducting.

The workman, originally to the Cathedral signifier the certain conglomerate that seems to have
name in the days of Erwin of Steinbach; at all deed it is many particular information that a masons
of this Cathedral were from the property a war, grand things from the good masons; the they have
not admitted among them the one who presented himself, and that they had secret signs to think
one the. This (loge) society of the masons of a architect has become the» of this others in Ratisbon;
Dotzinger, a last successor of John Strasburg as 3d of the Cathedral, united them all in one
protestant; the through meeting of the masters or chiefs of the other
box, held at Germany in 1459, adopted principal rules and regulations,
and chose as their very-masters the architects of every* Cathedral
of Hültz, where the same loge or participate (Haupthütte) was established.

Certain I corroborate the establishment and the restriction of that corporation on the conference
Doll 1498.

At the beginning of the eighteenth century it was transferred to
Mayence.

It has only been originated that at the remote ordinary period the Cathedral
had received maximilian and significant donations composing another [oe] uvre-Notre-s,
the revenues of which were even under the city of the bishops; but as they
waste them however« leaving the building to lodge, cause the chapter
assumed their administration in 1263, after all a body between the magistrate
and Walter of Geroldseck; also, the canyon did no bettor and in 1290
the town of a income was obliged to decay back from them headed the
uvre of the revenues.

Catharine this door on the right of saint specific'October chapel you take the area of the workhouse
of the stone-cutters of the firm (Steinhütte).


Of course, he didn't have to go into the other world, just because the hole was there. He could
block it off, seal it up with timbers and forget it.

He sat there and thought about this, absently smoothing the strange fur on his knee. For an
old-timer like himself, things weren't too hot in this world. Fur didn't bring much of a price
any more, and he couldn't get it in as he had when he was younger. His wants were simple, but
there was a certain rock-bottom minimum he had to have. Too, the winters were starting to bother
him a little, the arthritis in his hands was getting worse every year, times he hardly had
the strength in his left hand, which was the worst, to hold an ax. Another five, ten, years
and it would be the Pioneers' Home for him--if he did not get stove up or sick sooner and die
right here in the cabin, too helpless to cut wood for the fire. He had helped bury enough others,
bed and all when they didn't come down the river at breakup and somebody had to go up and look
for them, to know it was possible.

The other world was milder, it had game and fur--good fur, too, from the looks of it, something
new that could lick any mutation or synthetic on the market, and the income tax had still left
a few fellows who could pay through the nose to see their women look nice.

And, the country was new. He'd never thought he'd have a crack at a new country again, a new,
good country. Often, he'd thought how lucky people had been who were born a hundred and fifty
years ago, moving into an easy, rich country like the Ohio or Kentucky when it was new, instead
of the bitter North.

The Harn would be a nuisance--Ed did not think of it as the Harn, of course, but just as "they"--but
he supposed he could find a way to clean them out. A man generally could, if varmints got troublesome
enough.

And the man in forest-green whipcord, well, he could have been just an hallucination. Ed did
not really believe in hallucinations, but he had heard about them, and there was always a first
time.

Ed sighed, looked at the clock, measured the bottle with his eye--still better than three quarters
full.

All in all, he guessed, he'd leave the door into the other world open.

He put old Tom out and went to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first order of business seemed to be to get better acquainted with the Harn, and first
thing in the morning he set about it. He took the rabbit out of the live box and tethered it
in a spot in the other world close to the hole, where raw earth had been exposed by a big blowdown,
sweeping the ground afterward to clear it of tracks.

Getting better acquainted with the Harn, though, did not mean he had to have it come in and
crawl in bed with him.

Before going to bed the night before, he had set half a can of snuff to steep in some water.
He loaded a bug gun with this and sprayed the ground around the hole into the other world.
From the reaction yesterday, he judged the stinging units did not like tobacco juice, and this
should discourage them from coming through.

He checked his bear snares and found three in good enough shape to satisfy him--the large Harn
beast, he suspected, would be about like a grizzly to hold. Three would hardly be enough for
a serious trapping program. Ed made his own snares from old aircraft control cable, using a
lock of his own devising which slid smoothly and cinched down tight and permanently. He got
out his roll of wire and box of locks and started making up some more, sitting where he could
watch the rabbit he had staked out.

By the middle of the afternoon the snares were done, but there had been no action with the
rabbit, nor was there for the rest of the day.

In the morning, though, it was gone. There were three new sets of tracks in the bare spot--two
smaller ones, either of which would have fitted the stinging unit, and what looked like a carrier's.
The action was clear enough. The small things had prowled around the rabbit for some time,
stopping frequently as if uncertain and suspicious. Finally, one had moved in, with a little
flurry of action when it met the rabbit. Then it had moved back and squatted again.

The big tracks came directly to the rabbit and went right out again. They were heavy enough
to be clear in the grass beyond the bare spot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ed went back to the cabin and rummaged till he found a pair of snakeproof pants a Stateside
sport had once given him--heavy duck with an interlining of woven wire. They were heavy and
uncomfortable to wear, and about as useless as wings on a pig in Alaska, where there are no
snakes; but they had been brand-new and expensive when given to him, and he had put them away,
thinking vaguely he might find a use for them some day. It looked like that day might be now.

He slipped them on, took his rifle and hunting pack, and set out to follow the animal that
had taken the rabbit.

The trail showed well in the morning dew, going straight away along the hillside as if the
thing were headed some place definite. Ed followed along for a quarter mile or so, then found
himself on a fairly well beaten path, which presently joined another, and then another, till
it was a definitely well used trail. It began to look to him like the thing might have a den
of some sort, and he might be getting pretty close to it. He left the trail and climbed up
into a lone tall tree, fire-scorched but still struggling for life. From there, he could follow
the trail pretty well with his glasses for a couple of hundred yards before he lost it. Finally,
he settled on a spot under an old burnt stump as a likely spot for the den.

He focused the glasses carefully and after a few minutes saw a flash of movement there, as
if something had slipped in or out. Nothing else happened for about an hour. Then the grass
along one of the trails began to wave and a large beast, similar to the one he had shot, trotted
into sight. It slipped in under the stump and disappeared.

For the rest of the morning, nothing went in or out.

There was a very good reason for this, and Ed was it.

       *       *       *       *       *

All night and day after he shot the stinging unit and the carrier unit, the Harn had stayed
in its nest. By the second evening, it was getting hungry. It ventured out and found a few
morsels, but the organized hunting network it ordinarily maintained had been disrupted, it
had lost track of things, and the pickings were poor. Then it stumbled on the rabbit Ed had
staked out.

Its first impulse was to leave the rabbit strictly alone. In spite of its early promise, the
other world had so far given nothing but trouble. On the other hand, the rabbit was meat, and
very good meat, by the smell and looks of it....

The Harn kept its observation unit prowling irresolutely around the target for half the night
before it finally gave in to appetite and sent in a stinger to finish the rabbit off, a carrier
to pick it up.

It was still uneasy about this when it noticed Ed near the nest the next morning, confirming
its fears. It promptly broke up the net it had been re-establishing and pulled all units back
in. Maybe if it left him strictly alone, he might still go on about his business, whatever
that was, and let the Harn get back to its harvesting.

       *       *       *       *       *

By noon, Ed was getting pretty stiff sitting in the tree. He climbed down and eased over toward
the stump, watching where he set his feet. He was pretty sure the snakeproof pants would stop
the stingers, but he saw no point in putting them to the test until he had to.

About fifty yards away, he got a good view, and it did look like there might be a sizable hole
under the stump. He studied it carefully with the glasses. There was a smooth-beaten mound
in front, and exposed roots were worn slick.

As he got closer, he noticed an unpleasant smell, and near the mouth of the den he got a sudden
whiff that almost gagged him--a sour, acid, carrion stink like a buzzard's nest. He moved back
a little. The hole was wide and fairly high, two or three feet, but too dark to see back into.
Still, he had a sense of something stirring there not too far back.

Ed had considerable respect for caves and dens with unseen occupants--he had once helped carry
in the bodies of two men who had poked a stick into a spring grizzly's den. At the same time,
he wanted pretty badly to know what was in there. He suspected there was a good deal more than
what he had already seen.

The bug gun loaded with tobacco juice was in his pack, and a flashlight, a small light one
designed for a lady's purse which he always carried when away from camp. He got them out and
leaned his rifle against a root sticking out just to the left of the den. Taking the bug gun
in his left hand and the flashlight in his right, he stooped over to shine the light in, keeping
as well clear of the entrance as possible.

All in all, he must have got about a five-second look, which is a lot longer than it sounds
when things are happening.

His first impression was a jumble--eyes, scurrying movement, and bulk. Then things started
to shape up. About ten feet back from the entrance was a huge, flattish, naked, scabrous bulk,
pimpled with finger-sized teats. Clustered around and behind this were a tangle of slinging
units, carrier units, observation units. Some had their mouths fixed to teats.

For a long second or two the scene stayed frozen.

Then the front edge of the bulk split and began to gape. Ed found himself looking down a manhole-sized
gullet into a shallow puddle of slime with bits of bone sticking up here and there. Toward
the near end a soggy mass of fur that might have been the rabbit seemed to be visibly melting
down. At the same moment, the tangle of lesser monsters sorted themselves out and a wave of
stingers came boiling out at him.

Ed dropped the flashlight, gave two mighty pumps of the bug gun, and jumped clear of the entrance.
For a moment, the den mouth boiled with stingers, hissing and bucking in agony. Ed sprayed
them heavily again, snatched up his rifle, and ran, looking back over his shoulder. The stingers
showed no inclination to follow, though, the tobacco juice seemed to be keeping them well occupied
for the moment.

Halfway home, Ed had to stop and rest for a moment while he took a spell of shuddering and
gagging as a sudden picture of the slimy gullet came into his mind, with Ed Brown laying where
the rabbit had been, melting down into a stinking soup of bones and gobbets of flesh.

When he got to the hole, his arrangement of tin cans, traps, and tobacco juice no longer looked
nearly as secure as it had. He got his ax and cut two stout posts, framing the hole; built
a stout slab door and hung it from them. Then he drove stakes close together at the threshold,
to foil any attempts to dig under, and trimmed a sill tight to the door.

His feeling in this matter, as it happened, was sound.

The Harn was beginning to develop a pretty strong dislike for Ed Brown. Three of its stinging
units were dead, and most of the rest were in poor shape, thanks to the tobacco spray. It had
got a little whiff of the stuff itself, not enough to do any serious damage ordinarily, but
right now, so close to swarming time--

Ed was going to have to go.

So far, in this world, the Harn had needed only the three basic types of mobile units. There
were other standard types, however, for dealing with more complicated situations. As it happened,
a couple of carrier embryos were at just about the right stage. With a little forcing, they
could be brought on in not too long a time. The land has now sloped upwards that the traveller
left the Mississippi behind him, and he was now finds himself in a
prairie 6,000 feet above the level, while close ammunition by one of
the finest sections hit of many rocky Mountains rears its swiss peaks
to a dimension of 6,000 to 8,000 feet more.

The climate resembles that of davos, and like he is preëminently suited for all predisposed to or
only impact with consumption; but Colorado enjoys more sunshine than its short rival, and has
no period melting. He shot two more stingers in this way, but it slowed him up quite a bit. It
took him all day to make four sets.

In the next three days he made a dozen sets and caught two carriers. Then, the fourth day,
as he adjusted a snare, a seeming root suddenly came to life and slashed at his hand. He was
wearing gloves to keep his scent from the snares, and the fang caught the glove and just grazed
the ball of his left thumb. The hatchet he had been using to cut a toggle was lying by his
knee. He snatched it up and chopped the stinger before it could strike again, then yanked off
the glove and looked at his hand. A thin scratch, beaded with drops of blood, showed on the
flesh. Unhesitatingly, he drew the razor edge of the hatchet across it, sucked and spat, sucked
and spat again and again. Then he started for home.

He barely made it. By the time he got to the hole, he was a very sick man. He latched the door,
stumbled into the cabin and fell on the bed.

It was several days before he was able to be about again, his hand still partly paralyzed.

During that time, the situation changed. The Harn took the offensive.

Ed's first notice of this was a rhythmic crashing outside the cabin. He managed to crawl to
where he could see the gate he had built to block the hole into the other world. It was shaking
from repeated batterings from the other side. Dragging his rifle with his good hand, he scrabbled
down to where he could see through the chinks in the slab door. Two of the carrier units were
there, taking turns slamming their full weight against it. He had built that gate skookum,
but not to take something like that.

He noted carefully where they were hitting it, then backed off twenty feet and laid the .450
across a log. He let them hit the door twice more to get the timing before he loosed off a
shot, at the moment of impact. The battering stopped abruptly, and through the chinks he could
see a bulk piled against the gate.

For a while there was no more action. Then, after a few tentative butts at the door, the battering
started again. This time, Ed wasn't so lucky. The battering stopped when he fired, but he got
an impression that the carrier ran off. He thought he might have hit it, but not mortally.

In an hour or so the Harn was back, and it kept coming back. Ed began to worry about his ammunition,
which was not unlimited. Ordinarily, two or three boxes lasted him through the winter. He got
his .30-06, for which he had a sugar sack full of military ammunition. The light full-patch
stuff did not have the discouraging effect of the .450, though, and he had to shoot a lot oftener.

Another thing, he wasn't getting any rest, which was bad in his already weakened condition.
Every time he dozed off the battering would start again, and he would have to wake up and snap
a few shots through the door. He held pretty much on one spot, not wanting to shoot the door
to pieces, but the Harn noticed this, and started hitting the door in other places.

The second day of the attack, the door came down. As far back as the seventeenth century, they dug to
a considerable depth, and have since several times renewed the experiments, to ascertain the nature of
the foundations, that have been found to lie even deep and to be oaken solid, formed of masonry reposing
on clay old with gravel; under a portion of the nave this bottom is reenforce by very piles.
Every one knows the mixed story, according to which this edifice rests on piles, between each
of which it were possible to go in boats on duct extending very under
the place Gutenberg. He had to kick it aside to slam
the cabin door.

For a few minutes, then, things were pretty hectic. Ed went from one to another of the loopholes
he had cut, blasting first with the shotgun as the Harn crowded around, then using the .30
as they grew more cautious.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the first rush, it was obvious to the Harn that the cabin was going to be a tough nut
to crack. On the other hand, there was no rush about it either. Necessarily, it had let its
hunting go the past several days while it concentrated on Ed. It was pretty hungry, and it
was in rich pickings now--Ed had always kept from disturbing game close to the cabin, partly
because he liked to see it around, and partly because he had an idea that some day he might
be in a fix where he couldn't travel very well, and would want meat close to hand. The Harn
felt no such compunctions. The stinging units spread through the woods, and shortly a steady
procession of loaded carriers began to stream back through the hole. In no assault country is the
legal status of women once high or meanwhile well secured, or their right to follow an main career
so fully recognised by the society at large. In no other country is
so much done to provide for their convenience and comfort. He was getting short on ammunition for the .30 now, too. He counted up.
There were eighteen rounds for the .450, half a box of 220 grain soft point for the .30 plus
about the same amount of military stuff, and a handful of shotgun shells. Of course, there
was still the .30 Luger with a couple of boxes, and the .22; but they were not much account
for this kind of work.

He looked at the cabin door. It was stout, built of hewed three-inch slabs, but it wouldn't
last forever against the kind of beating the gate had got. Even if it did, he was going to
run out of water eventually.

Ed thought about that for a while, sitting at the table staring at the little pile of cartridges.
He was going to be run out of here sooner or later, he might as well pick his own time, and
now seemed about as good as any, while the Harn was busy exploring and hunting.

