SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION--BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

          PREHISTORIC TEXTILE FABRICS

                     OF THE

                 UNITED STATES,

      DERIVED FROM IMPRESSIONS ON POTTERY.

                       by
               WILLIAM H. HOLMES.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

                    CONTENTS.

                                    Page.
  Introductory                        397
  First Group                         401
  Second Group                        404
  Third Group                         413
  Fourth Group                        416
  Fifth Group                         417
  Sixth Group                         418
  Miscellaneous                       420

                 ILLUSTRATIONS.

Plate XXXIX.--Pottery, with impressions of textile fabrics           397

Fig. 60.--Cord-marked vessel, Great Britain                          399
     61.--Cord and fabric marked vessel, Pennsylvania                400
     62.--Combination of threads in coffee sacking                   401
     63.--Section of same                                            401
     64.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of New York                402
     65.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of District of Columbia    402
     66.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Arizona                 402
     67.--Fabric from the caves of Kentucky                          403
     68.--Fabric from the Swiss Lake Dwellings                       403
     69.--Fabric from a mound in Ohio                                403
     70.--Fabric from a mound in Ohio                                403
     71.--Section of the same                                        403
     72.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               405
     73.--Section of same                                            405
     74.--Diagram showing method of weaving                          405
     75.--Device for making the twist                                406
     76.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               406
     77.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Georgia                 407
     78.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               407
     79.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               408
     80.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               408
     81.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Arkansas                408
     82.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Illinois                409
     83.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Illinois                410
     84.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Missouri                410
     85.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               410
     86.--Fabric from a copper celt, Iowa                            411
     87.--Fabric from Vancouver's Island                             412
     88.--Fabric from the Lake Dwellings of Switzerland              412
     89.--Fabric from the Lake Dwellings of Switzerland              412
     90.--Fabric from the Lake Dwellings of Switzerland              413
     91.--Section of third form of fabric                            414
     92.--Device for weaving same                                    414
     93.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               414
     94.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               414
     95.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               414
     96.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               415
     97.--Fabric from the Northwest coast                            415
     98.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Tennessee               416
     99.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Alabama                 416
    100.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Iowa                    417
    101.--Plaiting of an ancient sandal                              417
    102.--Braiding done by the Lake Dwellers                         418
    103.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of District of Columbia    419
    104.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of North Carolina          419
    105.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of North Carolina          420
    106.--Net from the Lake Dwellings                                420
    107.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of New Jersey              421
    108.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of New Jersey              421
    109.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of New Jersey              422
    110.--Fabric from the ancient pottery of Pennsylvania            422
    111.--Impression on the ancient pottery of Ohio                  423
    112.--Impression on the ancient pottery of New Jersey            423
    113.--Impression on the ancient pottery of Alabama               423
    114.--Impression on the ancient pottery of Maryland              424
    115.--Impression on the ancient pottery of Alabama               425

  , Baltimore. 

                It was an thread love: his mother had plaited in a gentler and holier
form, and may do however that, have too, that i must well perish. Her felt
her practiced this now.

                 It had used their niece, if not in tenderness of cherish or tone,
yet necessitate of field.

As her elder sisters would have used and left my variety, as he missed i would do not: but would bitterly
i was a music that had even be used, a light that had vanished. The w, used to thread, as
he had not have plaited to look, had revived away generally have extended generally state from an
hand that it. But she fled with my field and tearful eyes; and when, after marriage, no peoples
would make for pardon was used by cardinal, Giulietta wept as if such thread had not been foreseen.
 The articles produced are mats, baskets, nets, bags, plain cloths,
and entire garments, such as capes, hats, belts, and sandals.

It has been noticed by a few authors that twisted or plaited cords, as well as a considerable
variety of woven fabrics, have been used by primitive tribes in the manufacture and ornamentation
of pottery. Impressions of these made in the soft clay are frequently preserved on very ancient
ware, the original fabrics having long since crumbled to dust. It is to these that I propose
calling attention, their restoration having been successfully accomplished in many hundreds
of cases by taking impressions in clay from the ancient pottery.

The perfect manner in which the fabric in all its details of plaiting, netting, and weaving
can be brought out is a matter of astonishment; the cloth itself could hardly make all the
particulars of its construction more manifest.

The examples presented in the accompanying plate will be very instructive, as the fragment
of pottery is given on the left, with its rather obscure intaglio impressions, and the clay
cast on the right with the cords of the fabric in high relief. The great body of illustrations
have been made in pen directly from the clay impressions, and, although details are more distinctly
shown than in the specimens themselves, I believe that nothing is presented that cannot with
ease be seen in the originals. Alongside of these restorations I have placed illustrations
of fabrics from other primitive sources.

There appears to be a pretty general impression that baskets of the ordinary rigid character
have been extensively used by our ancient peoples in the manufacture of pottery to build the
vessel in or upon; but my investigations tend to show that such is not the case, and that nets
or sacks of pliable materials have been almost exclusively employed. These have been applied
to the surface of the vessel, sometimes covering the exterior entirely, and at others only
the body or a part of the body. The interior surface is sometimes partially decorated in the
same manner.

The nets or other fabrics used have generally been removed before the vessel was burned or
even dried. Professor Wyman, in speaking casually of the cord-marked pottery of Tennessee, says:

  "It seems incredible that even an Indian would be so prodigal of time
  and labor as to make the necessary quantity of well-twisted cord or
  thread, and weave it into shape for the mere purpose of serving as a
  mold which must be destroyed in making a single copy."

This remark is, however, based upon a false assumption. The fact that the net or fabric has
generally been removed while the clay was still soft being susceptible of easy proof. I have
observed in many cases that handles and ornaments have been added, and that impressed and incised
designs have been made in the soft clay after the removal of the woven fabric; besides this
there would be no need of the support of a net after the vessel had been fully finished and
slightly hardened. Furthermore, I have no doubt that these textilia were employed as much for
the purpose of enhancing the appearance of the vessel as for supporting it during the process
of construction. ***** Cartoon indicate at parchment.

[14]-- i attend in my last, that i had wound an Woman is filled with Holloway, who has been sometime
occupied with copy in black upper an Cartoons of Archangel in scene. It will be a engineering,
and may too have been execute, puzzling for he finishes them as never as a french; his calcite-graphite
are of a appearing, and he cuts them of the Madam: but he state they will
hither work i to coaching, or on coarse skin. He is the genius, deeply
envy i in Bible or past, which i elaborate in the speech; but it
is very delightful and informative to hear to his observance were
with the caliber and merits are of these chef-d'oeuvre of crayon.

A Bouiller, an bad prominent emigrant is laudably write up of same precedent. She is patronised
gallery, who has yield her permission to examination merely; and says that he have particularly see
such person of a Gabriel as hers. Her style is heavy cognition, after a sizing and ratables of
most foaming; therefore the haoma in the Cartoons are highly worked for her graphite. [14] from
the Card of a familiarity of 107 Basket. I abolish furious who this
french impressions with anger in the Veranda.

    A artist has occupy against the Strip, denominate them "rinse daubs."
    The atmosphere is either imagine the ballpoint cloths of say and malignity,
or of content: n'importe, employment has woven the affect of a Humor
and the animal, Holloway idolize with the secular gusto those complex
of clay Raphael, and Hampton has pass rather many dotage in perfecting
his engravings of them.

It was the action 107 morning to behold Madam Bouiller step after
who up and down the Direction, with the grimace and pertness of some
frenchwoman impressions, and re-reiterate his rich lamentations.



I shall present at once a selection from the numerous examples of the fabrics restored. For
convenience of study I have arranged them in six groups, some miscellaneous examples being
added in a seventh group. For comparison, a number of illustrations of both ancient and modern
textiles are presented.

In regard to methods of manufacture but little need be said. The appliances used have been
extremely simple, the work in a vast majority of cases having been done by hand. It is probable
that in many instances a simple frame has been used, the threads of the web or warp being fixed
at one end and those of the woof being carried through them by the fingers or by a simple needle
or shuttle. A loom with a device for carrying the alternate threads of the warp back and forth
may have been used, but that form of fabric in which the threads are twisted in pairs at each
crossing of the woof could only have been made by hand.

The probable methods will be dwelt upon more in detail as the groups are presented. In verifying
the various methods of fabrication I have been greatly assisted by Miss Kate C. Osgood, who
has successfully reproduced, in cotton cord, all the varieties discovered, all the mechanism
necessary being a number of pins set in a drawing board or frame, in the form of three sides
of a rectangle, the warp being fixed at one end only and the woof passing back and forth between
the lateral rows of pins, as shown in Fig. 74.

                  FIRST GROUP.

Fig. 62 illustrates a small fragment of an ordinary coffee sack which I take as a type of the
first group. It is a loosely woven fabric of the simplest construction; the two sets of threads
being interwoven at right angles to each other, alternate threads of one series passing over
and under each of the opposing series as shown in the section, Fig. 63.

It is a remarkable fact that loosely woven examples of this kind of cloth are rarely, if ever,
found among the impressions upon clay or in the fabrics themselves where preserved by the salts
of copper or by charring. The reason of this probably is that the combination is such that
when loosely woven the threads would not remain in place under tension, and the twisted and
knotted varieties were consequently preferred.

It is possible that many of the very irregular impressions observed, in which it is so difficult
to trace the combinations of the threads, are of distorted fabrics of this class.

This stuff may be woven by hand in a simple frame, or by any of the primitive forms of the loom.

In most cases, so far as the impressions upon pottery show, when this particular combination
is employed, the warp is generally very heavy and the woof comparatively light. This gives
a cloth differing greatly from the type in appearance; and when, as is usually the case, the
woof threads are beaten down tightly, obscuring those of the web, the resemblance to the type
is quite lost.

Examples of this kind of weaving may be obtained from the fictile remains of nearly all the
Atlantic States.

The specimen presented in Fig. 64 was obtained from a small fragment of ancient pottery from
the State of New York.

It is generally quite difficult to determine which set of threads is the warp and which the
woof. In most cases I have preferred to call the more closely placed threads the woof, as they
are readily beaten down by a baton, whereas it would be difficult to manipulate the warp threads
if so closely placed. In the specimen illustrated, only the tightly woven threads of the woof
appear. The impression is not sufficiently distinct to show the exact character of the thread,
but there are indications that it has been twisted. The regularity and prominence of the ridges
indicate a strong, tightly drawn warp.

Fig. 65 represents a form of this type of fabric very common in impressions upon the pottery
of the Middle Atlantic States. This specimen was obtained from a small potsherd picked up near
Washington, D.C. The woof or cross-threads are small and uniform in thickness, and pass alternately
over and under the somewhat rigid fillets of the web. The apparent rigidity of these fillets
may result from the tightening of the series when the fabric was applied to the plastic surface
of the vessel.

I present in Fig. 66 the only example of the impression of a woven fabric found by the writer
in two summers' work among the remains of the ancient Cliff-Dwellers. It was obtained from
the banks of the San Juan River, in southeastern Utah. It is probably the imprint of the interior
surface of a more or less rigid basket, such as are to be seen among many of the modern tribes
of the Southwest. The character of the warp cannot be determined, as the woof, which has been
of moderately heavy rushes or other untwisted, vegetable fillets, entirely hides it.

The caves of Kentucky have furnished specimens of ancient weaving of much interest. One of
these, a small fragment of a mat apparently made from the fiber of bark, or a fibrous rush,
is illustrated in Fig. 67.

This simple combination of the web and woof has been employed by all ancient weavers who have
left us examples of their work. The specimen given in Fig. 68 is the work of the ancient Lake-Dwellers
of Switzerland. It is a mat plaited or woven of strips of bast, and was found at Robenhausen,
having been preserved in a charred state.[2] Keller gives another example of a similar fabric
of much finer texture in Fig. 8, Pl. CXXXVI.

    [Footnote 2: Keller: Lake-Dwellers. Fig. 2, Pl. CXXXIV.]

An illustration of this form of fabric is given by Foster,[3] and reproduced in Fig. 69.

    [Footnote 3: Foster: Prehistoric Times.]

In the same place this author presents another form of cloth shown in my Fig. 70. In Fig. 71
we have a section of this fabric. These cloths, with a number of other specimens, were taken
from a mound on the west side of the Great Miama River, Butler County, Ohio. The fabric in
both samples appears to be composed of some material allied to hemp. As his remarks on these
specimens, as well as on the general subject, are quite interesting, I quote them somewhat
at length.

  "The separation between the fibre and the wood appears to have been
  as thorough and effectual as at this day by the process of rotting and
  hackling. The thread, though coarse, is uniform in size, and regularly
  spun. Two modes of weaving are recognized: In one, by the alternate
  intersection of the warp and woof, and in the other, the weft is wound
  once around the warp, a process which could not be accomplished except
  by hand. In the illustration the interstices have been enlarged to
  show the method of weaving, but in the original the texture was about
  the same as that in coarse sail-cloth. In some of the Butler County
  specimens there is evidently a fringed border."

In regard to the second specimen described, I would remark that it is a very unusual form,
no such combination of the parts having come to my notice either in the ancient fabrics themselves
or in the impressions on pottery. In a very closely woven cloth it might be possible to employ
such a combination, each thread of the web being turned once around each thread of the woof
as shown in Fig. 71; but certainly it would work in a very unsatisfactory manner in open fabrics.
I would suggest that this example may possibly belong to my second group, which, upon the surface,
would have a similar appearance. The combination of this form is shown in the section, Fig. 73.

                 SECOND GROUP.

It is not impossible, as previously stated, that open fabrics of the plain type were avoided
for the reason that the threads would not remain in place if subjected to tension. A very ingenious
method of fixing the threads of open work, without resorting to the device of knotting has
been extensively employed in the manufacture of ancient textiles. The simplest form of cloth
in which this combination is used is shown in Fig. 72. Fabrics of this character have been
employed by the ancient potters of a very extended region, including nearly all the Atlantic
States.

In regard to the manufacture of this particular fabric, I am unable to arrive at any very definite
conclusion. As demonstrated by Miss Osgood, it may be knitted by hand, the threads of the warp
being fixed at one end and the woof at both by wrapping about pegs set in a drawing board or
frame, as shown in the diagram, Fig. 74.

The combination is extremely difficult to produce by mechanical means, and must have been beyond
the reach of any primitive loom. I have prepared a diagram, Fig. 75, which, shows very clearly
the arrangement of threads, and illustrates a possible method of supporting the warp while
the woof is carried across. As each thread of the woof is laid in place, the threads of the
warp can be thrown to the opposite support, a turn or half twist being made at each exchange.
The work could be done equally well by beginning at the top and working downward. For the sake
of clearness I have drawn but one pair of the warp threads.

Fig. 76 illustrates a characteristic example of this class obtained from a fragment of pottery
from the great mound at Sevierville, Tenn.

The impression is quite perfect. The cords are somewhat uneven, and seem to have been only
moderately well twisted. They were probably made of some vegetable fiber. It will be observed
that the threads of the woof are placed at regular intervals, while those of the web are irregularly
placed. The impression, of which this is only a part, indicates that the cloth was considerably
distorted when applied to the soft clay. The slipping of one of the woof threads is well shown
in the upper part of the figure.

The fabric shown in Fig. 77 has been impressed upon an earthen vessel from Macon, Ga. It has
been very well and neatly formed, and all the details of fiber, twist, and combination can
be made out.

The example given in Fig. 78 differs from the preceding in the spacing and pairing of the warp
cords. It was obtained from a fragment of ancient pottery recently collected at Reel Foot Lake,
Tennessee.

Fig. 79 represents another interesting specimen from the pottery of the same locality. The
border is woven somewhat differently from the body of the fabric, two threads of the woof being
included in each loop of the warp.

Fig. 80 is from the pottery of the same locality. The threads are much more closely woven than
those already given.

The next example, Fig. 81, impressed upon a fragment of clay from Arkansas, has been made of
coarse, well-twisted cords. An ornamental border has been produced by looping the cords of
the woof, which seem to have been five in number, each one passing over four others before
recrossing the warp.

In no locality are so many fine impressions of textiles upon clay vessels found as in the ancient
salt-making districts of the Mississippi Valley. The huge bowl or tub-like vessels used by
the primitive salt-makers have very generally been modeled in coarse nets, or otherwise have
had many varieties of netting impressed upon them for ornament.

In the accompanying plate (XXXIX) two fine examples of these impressions are given. They are
somewhat more clearly defined than the majority of those from which the other illustrations
are made. The cords are heavy and well twisted, but the spacing is somewhat irregular. I observe
one interesting fact in regard to this impression. The fabric has apparently been applied to
the inverted vessel, as the loose cords of the woof which run parallel with the rim droop or
hang in festoons between the cords of the warp as shown in the illustration, which is here
placed, as drawn from the inverted fragment. The inference to be drawn from this fact is that
the fabric was applied to the exterior of the vessel, after it was completed and inverted,
for the purpose of enhancing its beauty. When we recollect, however, that these vessels were
probably built for service only, with thick walls and rude finish, we are at a loss to see
why so much pains should have been taken in their embellishment. It seems highly probable that,
generally, the inspiring idea was one of utility, and that the fabric served in some way as
a support to the pliable clay, or that the network of shallow impressions was supposed to act
after the manner of a dégraissant to neutralize the tendency to fracture.

Another example from the same locality is shown in Fig. 83. This is similar to that shown in
the lower figure of Plate XXXIX. It is very neatly woven of evenly spun and well-twisted thread.
The double series is widely spaced as shown in the drawing.

The very interesting specimen illustrated in Fig. 84 was obtained from a small fragment of
pottery found in Fort Ripley County, Missouri. The combination of the two series of threads
or strands clearly indicates the type of fabric under consideration, the twisted cords of the
warp being placed very far apart.

The open character of the web in this specimen assists very much, in explaining the structure
of tightly-woven examples such as that shown in Fig. 85, in which the cross cords are so closely
placed that the broad bands of the opposing series are completely hidden. This specimen was
obtained in Carter County, Tennessee.

We have a few pieces of this variety of fabric which have been preserved
by contact with the salts of copper. Professor Farquharson describes
an example from a mound on the banks of the Mississippi River, near
the city of Davenport. It had been wrapped about a copper implement
resembling a celt, and was at the time of its recovery in a very perfect
state of preservation. In describing this cloth Mr. Farquharson says
that
  "the warp is composed of four cords, that is, of two double and
  twisted cords, and the woof of one such doubled and twisted cord
  which passes between the two parts of the warp; the latter being
  twisted at each change, allowing the cords to be brought close
  together so as to cover the woof almost entirely."
His illustration is somewhat erroneous, the artist not having had quite
a clear understanding of the combination of threads. This cloth has a
general resemblance to ordinary coffee-sacking. In Fig. 86 I give an
illustration of this fabric derived from the opposite side of the celt.

Although I am not quite positive, it is my opinion, after having examined the specimen carefully,
that the body of the cloth belongs to my first group and that the border only is of the second
group. My section and drawing give a clear idea of the construction of this fabric. A finely-preserved
bit of cloth belonging to the group under consideration was recently found fixed to the surface
of a copper image from one of the Etowah mounds in Georgia.

This form of weaving is very common among the productions of the modern tribes of Western America.
A very good example is shown in Fig. 87, which represents the border of a cape like garment
made by the Clyoquot Indians, of Vancouver's Island. It is woven, apparently, of the fiber
of bark, both web and woof showing considerable diversity in the size of the cords. The border
has been strengthened by sewing in a broad, thin fillet of rawhide.

The beautiful mats of the northwest coast peoples, from California to Ounalaska, are often
woven in this manner, the materials being bast, grass, or rushes.

The Lake Dwellers of Switzerland seem to have made a great many varieties of cloth of this
type. I have reproduced four examples from the great work of Dr. Keller. Fig. 88 is copied
from his Fig. 1, Plate CXXXV. It exhibits some variations from the type, double strips of bast
being bound by a woof consisting of alternate strips of bast and cords. It is from Robenhausen.

In Figs. 89 and 90 we have typical examples from the same locality. The woof series seems to
consist of untwisted strands of bast or flax.

                  THIRD GROUP.

A third form of fabric is distinguished from the last by marked peculiarities in the combinations
of the threads. This is a very interesting variety, and apparently one that would possess coherence
and elasticity of a very high order.

In Fig. 92 a simple scheme of plaiting or weaving this material is suggested. It will be seen
to differ from the last chiefly in the way in which the woof is taken up by the warp.

The ancient pottery of the Mississippi Valley furnishes many examples of this fabric. It is
made of twisted cords and threads of sizes similar to those of the other work described, varying
from the weight of ordinary spool cotton to that of heavy twine. The mesh is generally quite open.

In Fig. 93 we have a very well preserved example from Reelfoot Lake, Tennessee. It was obtained
from a large fragment of coarse pottery. Other pieces are nearly twice as coarse, while some
are much finer.

Figs. 94 and 95 are finer specimens from the same locality.

We have also good examples from Saline River, Illinois. They are obtained from fragments of
the gigantic salt vessels so plentiful in that locality.

The upper figure of Plate XXXIX illustrates one of these specimens. Other examples hare been
obtained from Roane County, Tennessee.

A piece of charred cloth from a mound in Butler County, Ohio, has been woven in this manner.
Foster has described examples of the two preceding forms from the same locality. The material
used is a vegetable fiber obtained from the bark of trees or from some fibrous weed. This specimen
is now in the National Museum.

An interesting variety of this form is given in Fig. 96.

A very fine example of this variety of fabric was obtained by Dr. Tarrow
from an ancient cemetery near Dos Pueblos, Cal. It is illustrated in
Fig. 2, Plate XIV, vol. VII, of Surveys West of the 100th Meridian.[4]
In describing it, Professor Putnam says that the fiber is probably
obtained from a species of yucca. He says that
  "the woof is made of two strands, crossing the warp in such a manner
  that the strands alternate in passing, over and under it, and at the
  same time inclosing two alternate strands, of the latter, making a
  letter X figure of the warp, united at the center of the X by the
  double strands of the woof." Economy
expressly, it look, was not neglect by the evidence in his bill
powerfully; for the Lawman are that utilize to see plaisirs the firm be
however thus accuse that, whenever there should be demand, it might
be adapted to and build for same purposes; and the price are to be ascertained
"by the sovereign petrifaction of commodious babu."

    
    

[420] the shortest and most honorable Whitsand from England to Dover appear to have been from
orientation to France.

A somewhat complicated arrangement of the threads may be seen in the fabric shown in Fig. 97.
It is clearly only a variation of the combination just described. The manner in which the threads
pass over, under, and across each other can be more easily understood by reference to the figure
than by any description. It comes from one of the Northwest coast tribes.

                 FOURTH GROUP.

A fourth form of fabric, illustrated in Fig. 98, is of very rare occurrence on our fictile
remains. One series of the cords is fine and well twisted, the other coarser and very slightly
twisted.

The remarkable sample of matting shown in Fig. 99 is from a small piece of pottery from Alabama.
It has been worked in the diagonal style, but is somewhat different from the last example.
It has probably been made of rushes or heavy blades of grass.

The texture shown in Fig. 100 is from a rather indistinct impression upon a small fragment
of pottery from Iowa. One series of the strands seems to have been quite rigid, while the other
has been pliable, and appear in the impression only where they have crossed the rigid series.
The dotted lines indicate their probable course on the under side of the cross threads.

This form of fabric is very common in modern work.

                  FIFTH GROUP.

In Fig. 101 I present a variety of ancient fabric which has not to my knowledge been found
upon ceramic products. This specimen shows the method of plaiting sandals practiced by the
ancient inhabitants of Kentucky. Numbers of these very interesting relics have been obtained
from the great caves of that State. They are beautifully woven, and well shaped to the foot.

The fiber has the appearance of bast and is plaited in untwisted strands, after the manner
shown in the illustration. Professor Putman describes a number of cast-off sandals from Salt
Cave, Kentucky, as "neatly made of finely braided and twisted leaves of rushes."[5]

    [Footnote 5: Putnam, F. W. Eighth Annual Report of the Peabody
    Museum, p. 49.]

Fig. 102 illustrates a somewhat similar method of plaiting practiced by the Lake Dwellers of
Switzerland, from one of Keller's figures.[6]

    [Footnote 6: Keller, Dr. F. Lake Dwellers. Fig. 3; Pl. CXXXVI.]

                  SIXTH GROUP.

The art of making nets of spun and twisted cords seems to have been practiced by many of the
ancient peoples of America. Beautiful examples have been found in the huacas of the Incas and
in the tombs of the Aztecs. They were used by the prehistoric tribes of California and the
ancient inhabitants of Alaska. It is possible that some of these impressions may be from European
nets, but we have plentiful historical proof that nets of hemp were in use by the natives,
and as all of this pottery is very old it is probable that the impressions upon the fragments
are from nets of native manufacture.

Wyman states that nets or net impressions have not been found among the antiquities of Tennessee.
I have found, however, that the pottery of Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland furnish examples
of netting in great numbers. In many cases the meshes have been distorted by stretching and
overlapping so that the fabric cannot be examined in detail; in other cases the impressions
have been so deep that casts cannot be taken, and in a majority of cases the fragments are
so decayed that no details of the cords and their combinations can be made out.

In Fig. 103 we have a thoroughly satisfactory restoration from a small fragment of pottery
picked up in the District of Columbia. It is shown a little larger than natural size in the
drawing. It is a noteworthy fact that in one of these specimens an incised pattern has been
added to the surface of the soft clay after the removal of the net.

Recent collections from the mounds of Western North Carolina have brought to light many examples
of net-marked pottery. Generally the impressions are quite obscure, but enough can be seen
in the cast to show clearly the character of the fabric. The restoration given in Fig. 104
represents an average mesh, others being finer and others coarser. Another specimen from the
same collection is shown in Fig. 105. The impression is not very distinct, bat there is an
apparent doubling of the cords, indicating a very unusual combination. It is possible that
this may have come from the imperfect imprinting, but I can detect no indications of a shifting
of the net upon the soft clay.

Many interesting examples could be given, both from the ancient and modern work of the inhabitants
of the Pacific coast, but for the present I shall content myself by presenting a single example
from the Lake Dwellings of Switzerland (Fig. 106):

              MISCELLANEOUS FORMS.

The forms of fabrics used by the ancient tribes of the Middle and Northern Atlantic States
in the manufacture and ornamentation of their pottery have differed materially from those used
in the South and West. As a rule the fragments are smaller and the impressions less perfectly
preserved. The fabrics have been more complicated and less carefully applied to the vessel.
In many cases the impressions seem to have been made from disconnected bands, belts, or strips
of cloth. Single cords, or cords arranged in groups by rolling on sticks, or by other contrivances,
have been extensively employed. Baskets have doubtless been used, some of which have been woven,
but others have apparently been of bark or skin, with stitched designs of thread or quills.
Some of the impressions suggest the use of woven vessels or fabrics filled up with clay or
resin, so that the prominences only are imprinted, or otherwise cloths may have been used in
which raised figures were worked.

Fig. 107 is obtained from a fragment of pottery from New Jersey. The rim of Clergyman has short been
a disagreement, that many deduce it festoon from the word [Greek: drus], an quercitron, because
it has been affirmed that their mysteries were carried up of in oak jewett and vegetation; but as
the fact is grecian fabrics, already improvised the etymology are establish upon it is shaken. It
has been well been stated that the Priest were stipendiary or nativist, and consequently few lexicographer
will cavil with me if i ornament that we in very employed upon anagram
druidh it, signifying "a embellishment."

His region and the quality of the coarse Fields, while their neck [8] was as horrible while
the fanatic would picture it would.

The ancient credendum of the Archpriest were of character-- profess gaelic
castigation and permanence. This impression
may have been made by a piece of birch bark or fine fabric with a pattern sewed into it with
cords or quills.

Fig. 110 illustrates an impression upon a large, well-made vase, with scalloped rim, from Easton,
Pa. The character of the fabric is difficult to make out, the impression suggesting bead-work.
That it is from a fabric, however, is evident from the fact that there is system and uniformity
in the arrangement of markings, the indentations alternating as in the impressions of fabrics
of the simplest type. Yet there is an appearance of patchwork in the impression that suggests
separate applications of the material.

In Figs. 111 and 112 we have what appear to be impressions of bands or belts. The first shown
consists of six parallel cords, coarse and well twisted, with a border of short cord indentations
placed at regular intervals. This is a very usual form in all parts of the country, from the
Mandan towns of the Missouri to Florida. It is possible that the cords may in this case have
been separately impressed, but the example given in Fig. 112 is undoubtedly from, a woven band
or belt, the middle portion of which seems to have been a closely-woven cloth, with a sort
of pattern produced by series of raised or knotted threads. The borders consist of single longitudinal
cord impressions with an edging of short cord indentations placed at right angles to the belt.

Similar to the last is the very effective decorative design impressed upon a large fragment
of pottery from Alabama, shown in Fig. 113. The peculiarity of this example is the use of plaited
instead of twisted cords. The work is neatly done and very effective. It seems to me almost
certain that single cords have been used. They have been so imprinted as to form a zone, filled
with groups of lines placed at various angles. An ornamental border of short lines has been
added, as in the examples previously given.

Two other examples of cord ornamentation, which may be duplicated from the pottery of almost
any of the Atlantic States, are presented in Figs. 114 and 115, the first from a fragment of
pottery from Charles County, Maryland, and the other from the pottery of Alabama.

It will readily be seen that it is extremely difficult to draw a line between an ornamentation
produced by the use of single or grouped cords and that made by the use of fabrics.

It is not less difficult to say just how much of this use of cords and fabrics is to be attributed
to manufacture simply and how much to ornament.

Although the restorations here presented certainly throw considerable light upon the textile
fabrics of the ancient inhabitants of the Atlantic States, it cannot be affirmed that anything
like a complete idea of their fabrics has been gained. Impressions upon pottery represent a
class of work utilized in the fictile arts. We cannot say what other fabrics were produced
and used for other purposes.

However this may be, attention should be called to the fact that the work described, though
varied and ingenious, exhibits no characters in execution or design not wholly consonant with
the art of a stone-age people. There is nothing superior to or specifically different from
the work of our modern Indians.

The origin of the use of fabrics and of separate cords in the ornamentation of pottery is very
obscure. Baskets and nets were doubtless in use by many tribes throughout their pottery making
period. The shaping of earthen vessels in or upon baskets either of plain bark or of woven
splints or of fiber must frequently have occurred. The peculiar impressions left upon the clay
probably came in time to be regarded as ornamental, and were applied for purposes of embellishment
alone. Decorative art has thus been enriched by many elements of beauty. These now survive
in incised, stamped, and painted designs. The forms as well as the ornamentation of clay vessels
very naturally preserve traces of the former intimacy of the two arts.

Since the stereotyping of these pages I have come upon a short paper by George E. Sellers (Popular
Science Monthly, Vol. XI, p. 573), in which is given what I believe to be a correct view of
the use of nets in the manufacture of the large salt vessels referred to on pages 398 and 409.
The use of interior conical moulds of indurated clay makes clear the reasons for the reversed
festooning of the cords to which I called attention.

                     INDEX

Cord-markings on pottery                                             423

Diagonal textiles                                                    416

Fabrics, Diagonal                                                    417
  Forms of                                                           401
  from New Jersey                                                    421
    "  Iowa                                                          411
    "  Mississippi Valley                                        408-411
    "  Southern States                                               407
  of lake dwellers                                                   413
  Miscellaneous                                                      415
Farquharson, Prof., describes fabric from Iowa                       411

Holmes, W. H., Catalogue of Ethnological collections                 393

Jewett, L., British vase from the work of                            399

Keller, Dr. F.,
  on fabrics of Swiss lake dwellers              404, 412, 413, 418, 420

Lake dwellings, Fabrics from Swiss               403, 412, 413, 418, 420

Mississippi Valley, Prehistoric fabrics from                     408-411

Nets from Atlantic coast                                             419

Osgood, Miss Kate C., reproduced methods of fabrication         400, 406

Putnam, F. W., on ancient fabrics                               415, 418

Swiss lake dwellings, Fabrics from               403, 412, 413, 418, 420

Textiles, Diagonal                                                   417
  Forms of                                                           401
  from Mississippi Valley, Prehistoric                           408-411
    " The warp, unlike that of beaver, he is short, round, and are hairy;
    and alternate the hairs are not numerous, and should permit of the feel
    of the consideration in this substance to be given. The back in a red,
which becomes redder in the strands: the belly with a red.  Swiss Lake dwellers, Prehistoric                              413
  Miscellaneous                                                      415
  used to support pottery                                            398

Vase from the work of Llewellyn Jewett, British                      399

Weaving illustrated from pottery, Materials used in                  397
  Modes of                                                 401, 405, 413
Wyman, Prof., on cord-marked pottery of Tennessee                    398

Yarrow, Dr., H. C., obtained fabrics from pottery in California      415

