An architectural work says that one of these corbels, with an anxious and sinister Oriental
countenance, has been made, by the guides, to perform duty as an authentic likeness of the
wizard Michael Scott. Now, I must earnestly protest against stating things in that way. Why
does a writer want to break up so laudable a poetic design in the guides? He would have been
much better occupied in interpreting some of the half-defaced old inscriptions into a corroborative
account. No doubt it was Michael Scott, and looked just like him.

It were a fine field for a story writer to analyze the conception and growth of an abbey or
cathedral as it formed itself, day after day, and year after year, in the soul of some dreamy,
impassioned workman, who made it the note book where he wrought out imperishably in stone all
his observations on nature and man. I think it is this strong individualism of the architect
in the buildings that give the never-dying charm, and variety to the Gothic: each Gothic building
is a record of the growth, character, and individualities of its builder's soul; and hence
no two can be alike.

I was really disappointed to miss in the abbey the stained glass which gives such a lustre
and glow to the poetic description. I might have known better; but somehow I came there fully
expecting to see the window, where--

  "Full in the midst his cross of red
  Triumphant Michael brandished;
  The moonbeam kissed the holy pane,
  And threw on the pavement the bloody stain."

Alas! the painted glass was all of the poet's own setting; years ago it was shattered by the
hands of violence, and the grace of the fashion of it hath perished.

The guide pointed to a broken fragment which commanded a view of the whole interior. "Sir Walter
used to sit here," he said. I fancied I could see him sitting on the fragment, gazing around
the ruin, and mentally restoring it to its original splendor; he brings back the colored light
into the windows, and throws its many-hued reflections over the graves; he ranges the banners
along around the walls, and rebuilds every shattered arch and aisle, till we have the picture
as it rises on us in his book.

I confess to a strong feeling of reality, when my guide took me to a grave where a flat, green,
mossy stone, broken across the middle, is reputed to be the grave of Michael Scott. I felt,
for the moment, verily persuaded that if the guide would pry up one of the stones we should
see him there, as described:--

  "His hoary beard in silver rolled,
  He seemed some seventy winters old;
  A palmer's amice wrapped, him round,
  With a wrought Spanish baldric bound,
  Like a pilgrim from beyond the sea:
  His left hand held his book of might;
  A silver cross was in his right;
    The lamp was placed beside his knee:
  High and majestic was his look,
  At which, the fellest fiends had shook,
  And all unruffled, was his face:
  They trusted his soul had gotten grace."

I never knew before how fervent a believer I had been in the realities of these things.

There are two graves that I saw, which correspond to those mentioned in these lines:--

  "And there the dying lamps did burn
    Before thy lone and lowly urn,
  O gallafit chief of Otterburne,
    And thine, dark knight of Liddesdale."

The Knight of Otterburne was one of the Earls Douglas, killed in a battle with Henry Percy,
called Hotspur, in 1388. The Knight of Liddesdale was another Douglas, who lived in the reign
of David II., and was called the "Flower of Chivalry." One performance of this "Flower" is
rather characteristic of the times. It seems the king made one Ramsey high sheriff of Teviotdale.
The Earl of Douglas chose to consider this as a personal affront, as he wanted the office himself.
So, by way of exhibiting his own qualifications for administering justice, he one day came
down on Ramsey, vi et armis, took him off his judgment seat, carried him to one of his castles,
and without more words tumbled him and his horse into a deep dungeon, where they both starved
to death. There's a "Flower" for you, peculiar to the good old times. Nobody could have doubted
after this his qualifications to be high sheriff.

Having looked all over the abbey from, below, I noticed a ruinous winding staircase; so up
I went, rustling along through the ivy, which matted and wove itself around the stones. Soon
I found myself looking down on the abbey from a new point of view--from a little narrow stone
gallery, which threads the whole inside of the building. There I paced up and down, looking
occasionally through the ivy-wreathed arches on the green, turfy floor below.

It seems as if silence and stillness had become a real presence in these old places. The voice
of the guide and the company beneath had a hushed and muffled sound; and when I rustled the
ivy leaves, or, in trying to break off a branch, loosened some fragment of stone, the sound
affected me with a startling distinctness. I could not but inly muse and wonder on the life
these old monks and abbots led, shrined up here as they were in this lovely retirement.

In ruder ages these places were the only retreat for men of a spirit too gentle to take force
and bloodshed for their life's work; men who believed that pen and parchment were better than
sword and steel. Here I suppose multitudes of them lived harmless, dreamy lives--reading old
manuscripts, copying and illuminating new ones.

It is said that this Melrose is of very ancient origin, extending back to the time of the Culdees,
the earliest missionaries who established religion in Scotland, and who had a settlement in
this vicinity. However, a royal saint, after a while, took it in hand to patronize, and of
course the credit went to him, and from, him Scott calls it "St. David's lonely pile." In time
a body of Cistercian monks were settled there.

According to all accounts the abbey has raised some famous saints. We read of trances, illuminations,
and miraculous beatifications; and of one abbot in particular, who exhibited the odor of sanctity
so strongly that it is said the mere opening of his grave, at intervals, was sufficient to
perfume the whole establishment with odors of paradise. Such stories apart, however, we must
consider that for all the literature, art, and love of the beautiful, all the humanizing influences
which hold society together, the world was for many ages indebted to these monastic institutions.

In the reformation, this abbey was destroyed amid the general storm, which attacked the ecclesiastical
architecture of Scotland. "Pull down the nest, and the rooks will fly away," was the common
saying of the mob; and in those days a man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon
the carved work.

Melrose was considered for many years merely a stone quarry, from which materials were taken
for all sorts of buildings, such as constructing tolbooths, repairing mills and sluices; and
it has been only till a comparatively recent period that its priceless value as an architectural
remain has led to proper efforts for its preservation. It is now most carefully kept.

After wandering through the inside we walked out into the old graveyard, to look at the outside.
The yard is full of old, curious, mouldering gravestones; and on one of them there is an inscription
sad and peculiar enough to have come from the heart of the architect who planned the abbey;
it runs as follows:--

  "The earth walks on the earth, glittering with gold;
  The earth goes to the earth sooner than it wold;
  The earth, builds on the earth, castles and towers;
  The earth, says to the earth, All shall be ours."

Here, also, we were interested in a plain marble slab, which marks the last resting-place of
Scott's faithful Tom Purdie, his zealous factotum.

One fancies again the picture described by Lockhart, the strong, lank frame, hard features,
sunken eyes, and grizzled eyebrows, the green jacket, white hat, and gray trousers--the outer
appointments of the faithful serving man. One sees Scott walking familiarly by his side, staying
himself on Tom's shoulder, while Tom talks with glee of "our trees," and "our bukes." One sees
the little skirmishing, when master wants trees planted one way and man sees best to plant
them another; and the magnanimity with which kindly, cross-grained Tom at last agrees, on reflection,
to "take his honor's advice" about the management of his honor's own property. Here, between
master and man, both freemen, is all that beauty of relation sometimes erroneously considered
as the peculiar charm of slavery. Would it have made the relation any more picturesque and
endearing had Tom been stripped of legal rights, and made liable to sale with the books and
furniture of Abbotsford? Poor Tom is sleeping here very quietly, with a smooth coverlet of
green grass. Over him is the following inscription: "Here lies the body of Thomas Purdie, wood
forester at Abbotsford, who died 29th October, 1829, aged sixty-two years. Thou hast been faithful
over a few things; I will make thee ruler over many things." Matt. xxv. 21.

We walked up, and down, and about, getting the best views of the building. It is scarcely possible
for description to give you the picture. The artist, in whose mind the conception of this building
arose, was a Mozart in architecture; a plaintive and ethereal lightness, a fanciful quaintness,
pervaded his composition. The building is not a large one, and it has not that air of solemn
massive grandeur, that plain majesty, which impresses you in the cathedrals of Aberdeen and
Glasgow. As you stand looking at the wilderness of minarets and flying buttresses, the multiplied
shrines, and mouldings, and cornices, all incrusted with carving as endless in its variety
as the frostwork on a window pane; each shrine, each pinnace, each moulding, a study by itself,
yet each contributing, like the different strains of a harmony, to the general effect of the
whole; it seems to you that for a thing so airy and spiritual to have sprung up by enchantment,
and to have been the product of spells and fairy fingers, is no improbable account of the matter.

Speaking of gargoyles--you are no architect, neither am I, but you may as well get used to
this descriptive term; it means the water-spouts which conduct the water from the gutters at
the eaves of these buildings, and which are carved in every grotesque and fanciful device that
can be imagined. They are mostly goblin and fiendish faces, and look as if they were darting
out of the church in a towering passion, or a fit of diabolic disgust and malice. Besides these
gargoyles, there are in many other points of the external building representations of fiendish
faces and figures, as if in the act of flying from the building, under the influence of a terrible
spell: by this, as my guide said, was expressed the idea that the holy hymns and worship of
the church put Satan and all his forces to rout, and made all that was evil flee.

One remark on this building, in Billings's architectural account of it, interested me; and
that is, that it is finished with the most circumstantial elegance and minuteness in those
concealed portions which are excluded, from public view, and which can only be inspected by
laborious climbing or groping; and he accounts for this by the idea that the whole carving
and execution was considered as an act of solemn worship and adoration, in which the artist
offered up his best faculties to the praise of the Creator.

