IN DESERT

AND WILDERNESS

BY

HENRYK SIENKIEWICZ

AUTHOR OF "WITH FIRE AND SWORD," "QUO VADIS," "WHIRLPOOLS," ETC.

TRANSLATED FROM THE POLISH BY

MAX A. DREZMAL

BOSTON

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY

1917

Copyright, 1912,

BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

All rights reserved

Printers

S. J. PARKBILL & Co., BOSTON, U.S.A.

PART FIRST

IN DESERT AND WILDERNESS

I

"Do you know, Nell," said Stas Tarkowski to his friend, a little English girl, "that yesterday
the police came and arrested the wife of Smain, the overseer, and her three children,--that
Fatma who several times called at the office to see your father and mine."

And little Nell, resembling a beautiful picture, raised her greenish eyes to Stas and asked
with mingled surprise and fright:

"Did they take her to prison?"

"No, but they will not let her go to the Sudân and an official has arrived who will see that
she does not move a step out of Port Said."

"Why?"

Stas, who was fourteen years old and who loved his eight-year-old companion very much, but
looked upon her as a mere child, said with a conceited air:

"When you reach my age, you will know everything which happens, not only along the Canal from
Port Said to Suez, but in all Egypt. Have you ever heard of the Mahdi?"

"I heard that he is ugly and naughty."

The boy smiled compassionately.

"I do not know whether he is ugly. The Sudânese claim that he is handsome. But the word 'naughty'
about a man who has murdered so many people, could be used only by a little girl, eight years
old, in dresses--oh--reaching the knees."

"Papa told me so and papa knows best."

"He told you so because otherwise you would not understand. He would not express himself to
me in that way. The Mahdi is worse than a whole shoal of crocodiles. Do you understand? That
is a nice expression for me. 'Naughty!' They talk that way to babes."

But, observing the little girl's clouded face, he became silent and afterwards said:

"Nell, you know I did not want to cause you any unpleasantness. The time will come when you
will be fourteen. I certainly promise you that."

"Aha!" she replied with a worried look, "but if before that time the Mahdi should dash into
Port Said and eat me."

"The Mahdi is not a cannibal, so he does not eat people. He only kills them. He will not dash
into Port Said, but even if he did and wanted to murder you, he would first have to do with me."

This declaration with the sniff with which Stas inhaled the air through his nose, did not bode
any good for the Mahdi and considerably quieted Nell as to her own person.

"I know," she answered, "you would not let him harm me. But why do they not allow Fatma to
leave Port Said?"

"Because Fatma is a cousin of the Mahdi. Her husband, Smain, made an offer to the Egyptian
Government at Cairo to go to the Sudân, where the Mahdi is staying, and secure the liberty
of all Europeans who have fallen into his hands."

"Then Smain is a good man?"

"Wait! Your papa and my papa, who knew Smain thoroughly, did not have any confidence in him
and warned Nubar Pasha not to trust him. But the Government agreed to send Smain and Smain
remained over half a year with the Mahdi. The prisoners not only did not return, but news has
come from Khartûm that the Mahdists are treating them more and more cruelly, and that Smain,
having taken money from the Government, has become a traitor. He joined the Mahdi's army and
has been appointed an emir. The people say that in that terrible battle in which General Hicks
fell, Smain commanded the Mahdi's artillery and that he probably taught the Mahdists how to
handle the cannon, which before that time they, as savage people, could not do. But now Smain
is anxious to get his wife and children out of Egypt. So when Fatma, who evidently knew in
advance what Smain was going to do, wanted secretly to leave Port Said, the Government arrested
her with the children."

"But what good are Fatma and her children to the Government?"

"The Government will say to the Mahdi,--'Give us the prisoners and we will surrender Fatma'--"

For the time the conversation was interrupted because the attention of Stas was attracted by
birds flying from the direction of Echtum om Farag towards Lake Menzaleh. They flew quite low
and in the clear atmosphere could be plainly seen some pelicans with curved napes, slowly moving
immense wings. Stas at once began to imitate their flight. So with head upraised, he ran a
score of paces along the dyke, waving his outstretched arms.

"Look!" suddenly exclaimed Nell. "Flamingoes are also flying."

Stas stood still in a moment, as actually behind the pelicans, but somewhat higher, could be
seen, suspended in the sky, two great red and purple flowers, as it were.

"Flamingoes! flamingoes! Before night they return to their haunts on the little islands," the
boy said. "Oh, if I only had a rifle!"

"Why should you want to shoot at them?"

"Girls don't understand such things. But let us go farther; we may see more of them."

Saying this he took the girl's hand and together they strolled towards the first wharf beyond
Port Said. Dinah, a negress and at one time nurse of little Nell, closely followed them. They
walked on the embankment which separated the waters of Lake Menzaleh from the Canal, through
which at that time a big English steamer, in charge of a pilot, floated. The night was approaching.
The sun still stood quite high but was rolling in the direction of the lake. The salty waters
of the latter began to glitter with gold and throb with the reflection of peacock feathers.
On the Arabian bank as far as the eye could reach, stretched a tawny, sandy desert--dull, portentous,
lifeless. Between the glassy, as if half-dead, heaven and the immense, wrinkled sands there
was not a trace of a living being. While on the Canal life seethed, boats bustled about, the
whistles of steamers resounded, and above Menzaleh flocks of mews and wild ducks scintillated
in the sunlight, yonder, on the Arabian bank, it appeared as if it were the region of death.
Only in proportion as the sun, descending, became ruddier and ruddier did the sands begin to
assume that lily hue which the heath in Polish forests has in autumn.

The children, walking towards the wharf, saw a few more flamingoes, which pleased their eyes.
After this Dinah announced that Nell must return home. In Egypt, after days which even in winter
are often scorching, very cold nights follow, and as Nell's health demanded great care, her
father, Mr. Rawlinson, would not allow her to be near the water after sunset. They, therefore,
returned to the city, on the outskirts of which, near the Canal, stood Mr. Rawlinson's villa,
and by the time the sun plunged into the sea they were in the house. Soon, the engineer Tarkowski,
Stas' father, who was invited to dinner arrived, and the whole company, together with a French
lady, Nell's teacher, Madame Olivier, sat at the table.

Mr. Rawlinson, one of the directors of the Suez Canal Company, and Ladislaus Tarkowski, senior
engineer of the same company, lived for many years upon terms of the closest intimacy. Both
were widowers, but Pani Tarkowski, by birth a French lady, died at the time Stas came into
the world, while Nell's mother died of consumption in Helwan when the girl was three years
old. Both widowers lived in neighboring houses in Port Said, and owing to their duties met
daily. A common misfortune drew them still closer to each other and strengthened the ties of
friendship previously formed. Mr. Rawlinson loved Stas as his own son, while Pan Tarkowski
would have jumped into fire and water for little Nell. After finishing their daily work the
most agreeable recreation for them was to talk about the children, their education and future.
During such conversations it frequently happened that Mr. Rawlinson would praise the ability,
energy, and bravery of Stas and Pan Tarkowski would grow enthusiastic over the sweetness and
angelic countenance of Nell. And the one and the other spoke the truth. Stas was a trifle conceited
and a trifle boastful, but diligent in his lessons, and the teachers in the English school
in Port Said, which he attended, credited him with uncommon abilities. As to courage and resourcefulness,
he inherited them from his father, for Pan Tarkowski possessed these qualities in an eminent
degree and in a large measure owed to them his present position.

In the year 1863 he fought for eleven months without cessation. Afterwards, wounded, taken
into captivity, and condemned to Siberia, he escaped from the interior of Russia and made his
way to foreign lands. Before he entered into the insurrection he was a qualified engineer;
nevertheless he devoted a year to the study of hydraulics. Later he secured a position at the
Canal and in the course of a few years, when his expert knowledge, energy, and industry became
known, he assumed the important position of senior engineer.

Stas was born, bred, and reached his fourteenth year in Port Said on the Canal; in consequence
of which the engineers called him the child of the desert. At a later period, when he was attending
school, he sometimes, during the vacation season and holidays, accompanied his father or Mr.
Rawlinson on trips, which their duty required them to make from Port Said to Suez to inspect
the work on the embankment or the dredging of the channel of the Canal. He knew everybody--the
engineers and custom-house officials as well as the laborers, Arabs and negroes. He bustled
about and insinuated himself everywhere, appearing where least expected; he made long excursions
on the embankment, rowed in a boat over Menzaleh, venturing at times far and wide. He crossed
over to the Arabian bank and mounting the first horse he met, or in the absence of a horse,
a camel, or even a donkey, he would imitate Farys* [* Farys, the hero of Adam Mickiewicz's
Oriental poem of the same name.--Translator's note.] on the desert; in a word, as Pan Tarkowski
expressed it, "he was always popping up somewhere," and every moment free from his studies
he passed on the water.

His father did not oppose this, as he knew that rowing, horseback riding, and continual life
in the fresh air strengthened his health and developed resourcefulness within him. In fact,
Stas was taller and stronger than most boys of his age. It was enough to glance at his eyes
to surmise that in case of any adventure he would sin more from too much audacity than from
timidity. In his fourteenth year, he was one of the best swimmers in Port Said, which meant
not a little, for the Arabs and negroes swim like fishes. Shooting from carbines of a small
caliber, and only with cartridges, for wild ducks and Egyptian geese, he acquired an unerring
eye and steady hand. His dream was to hunt the big animals sometime in Central Africa. He therefore
eagerly listened to the narratives of the Sudânese working on the Canal, who in their native
land had encountered big, thick-skinned, and rapacious beasts.

This also had its advantage, for at the same time he learned their languages. It was not enough
to excavate the Suez Canal; it was necessary also to maintain it, as otherwise the sands of
the deserts, lying on both banks, would fill it up in the course of a year. The grand work
of De Lesseps demands continual labor and vigilance. So, too, at the present day, powerful
machines, under the supervision of skilled engineers, and thousands of laborers are at work,
dredging the channel. At the excavation of the Canal, twenty-five thousand men labored. To-day,
owing to the completion of the work and improved new machinery, considerably less are required.
Nevertheless, the number is great. Among them the natives of the locality predominate. There
is not, however, a lack of Nubians, Sudânese, Somalis, and various negroes coming from the
White and Blue Niles, that is, from the region which previous to the Mahdi's insurrection was
occupied by the Egyptian Government. Stas lived with all on intimate terms and having, as is
usual with Poles, an extraordinary aptitude for languages he became, he himself not knowing
how and when, acquainted with many of their dialects. Born in Egypt, he spoke Arabian like
an Arab. From the natives of Zanzibar, many of whom worked as firemen on the steam dredges,
he learned Kiswahili, a language widely prevalent all over Central Africa. He could even converse
with the negroes of the Dinka and Shilluk tribes, residing on the Nile below Fashoda. Besides
this, he spoke fluently English, French, and also Polish, for his father, an ardent patriot,
was greatly concerned that his son should know the language of his forefathers. Stas in reality
regarded this language as the most beautiful in the world and taught it, not without some success,
to little Nell. One thing only he could not accomplish, that she should pronounce his name
Stas, and not "Stes." Sometimes, on account of this, a misunderstanding arose between them,
which continued until small tears began to glisten in the eyes of the girl. Then "Stes" would
beg her pardon and became angry at himself.

He had, however, an annoying habit of speaking slightingly of her eight years and citing by
way of contrast his own grave age and experience. He contended that a boy who is finishing
his fourteenth year, if he is not fully matured, at least is not a mere child, but on the contrary,
is capable of performing all kinds of heroic deeds, especially if he has Polish and French
blood. He craved most ardently that sometime an opportunity would occur for such deeds, particularly
in defense of Nell. Both invented various dangers and Stas was compelled to answer her questions
as to what he would do if, for instance, a crocodile, ten yards long, or a scorpion as big
as a dog, should crawl through the window of her home. To both it never occurred for a moment
that impending reality would surpass all their fantastic suppositions.

II

In the meantime, in the house, good news awaited them during the dinner. Messrs. Rawlinson
and Tarkowski, as skilled engineers, had been invited a few weeks before, to examine and appraise
the work carried on in connection with the whole net-work of canals in the Province of El-Fayûm,
in the vicinity of the city of Medinet near Lake Karûn, as well as along the Yûsuf and Nile
rivers. They were to stay there for about a month and secured furloughs from their company.
As the Christmas holidays were approaching, both gentlemen, not desiring to be separated from
the children, decided that Stas and Nell should also go to Medinet. Hearing this news the children
almost leaped out of their skins from joy. They had already visited the cities lying along
the Canal, particularly Ismailia and Suez, and while outside the Canal, Alexandria and Cairo,
near which they viewed the great pyramids and the Sphinx. But these were short trips, while
the expedition to Medinet el-Fayûm required a whole day's travel by railway, southward along
the Nile and then westward from El-Wasta towards the Libyan Desert. Stas knew Medinet from
the narratives of younger engineers and tourists who went there to hunt for various kinds of
water-fowls as well as desert wolves and hyenas. He knew that it was a separate, great oasis
lying off the west bank of the Nile but not dependent upon its inundations and having its water
system formed by Lake Karûn through Bahr Yûsuf and a whole chain of small canals. Those who
had seen this oasis said that although that region belonged to Egypt, nevertheless, being separated
from it by a desert, it formed a distinct whole. Only the Yûsuf River connects, one might say
with a thin blue thread, that locality with the valley of the Nile. The great abundance of
water, fertility of soil, and luxuriant vegetation made an earthly paradise of it, while the
extensive ruins of the city of Crocodilopolis drew thither hundreds of curious tourists. Stas,
however, was attracted mainly by the shores of Lake Karûn, with its swarms of birds and its
wolf-hunts on the desert hills of Gebel el-Sedment.

But his vacation began a few days later, and as the inspection of the work on the canals was
an urgent matter and the gentlemen could not lose any time, it was arranged that they should
leave without delay, while the children, with Madame Olivier, were to depart a week later.
Nell and Stas had a desire to leave at once, but Stas did not dare to make the request. Instead
they began to ask questions about various matters relative to the journey, and with new outbursts
of joy received the news that they would not live in uncomfortable hotels kept by Greeks, but
in tents furnished by the Cook Tourists' Agency. This is the customary arrangement of tourists
who leave Cairo for a lengthy stay at Medinet. Cook furnishes tents, servants, cooks, supplies
of provisions, horses, donkeys, camels, and guides; so the tourist does not have to bother
about anything. This, indeed, is quite an expensive mode of traveling; but Messrs. Tarkowski
and Rawlinson did not have to take that into account as all expenses were borne by the Egyptian
Government, which invited them, as experts, to inspect and appraise the work on the canals.
Nell, who, above everything in the world, loved riding on a camel, obtained a promise from
her father that she should have a separate "hump-backed saddle horse" on which, together with
Madame Olivier, or Dinah, and sometimes with Stas, she could participate in the excursions
to the nearer localities of the desert and to Karun. Pan Tarkowski promised Stas that he would
allow him some nights to go after wolves, and if he brought a good report from school he would
get a genuine English short rifle and the necessary equipment for a hunter. As Stas was confident
that he would succeed, he at once began to regard himself as the owner of a short rifle and
promised himself to perform various astonishing and immortal feats with it.

On such projects and conversation the dinner passed for the overjoyed children. But somewhat
less eagerness for the contemplated journey was displayed by Madame Olivier who was loath to
leave the comfortable villa in Port Said and who was frightened at the thought of living for
several weeks in a tent, and particularly at the plan of excursions on camel-back. It happened
that she had already tried this mode of riding several times and these attempts ended unfortunately.
Once the camel rose too soon, before she was well seated in the saddle, and as a result she
rolled off his back onto the ground. Another time, the dromedary, not belonging to the light-footed
variety, jolted her so that two days elapsed before she recovered; in a word, although Nell,
after two or three pleasure-rides which Mr. Rawlinson permitted her to take, declared that
there was nothing more delightful in the world, in the same measure only painful recollections
remained for Madame Olivier. She said that this was good enough for Arabs or for a chit like
Nell, who could not be jolted any more than a fly which should alight upon a camel's hump,
but not for persons dignified, and not too light, and having at the same time a certain proneness
to unbearable sea-sickness.

But as to Medinet el-Fayûm she had other fears. Now in Port Said as well as in Alexandria,
Cairo, and in the whole of Egypt nothing was the subject of more discussion than the Mahdi's
insurrection and the cruelties of the dervishes. Madame Olivier, not knowing exactly where
Medinet was situated, became alarmed as to whether it was not too near the Mahdists, and finally
began to question Mr. Rawlinson about it.

But he only smiled and said:

"The Mahdi at this moment is besieging Khartûm in which General Gordon is defending himself.
Does Madame know how far it is from Medinet to Khartûm?"

"I have no idea."

"About as far as from here to Sicily," explained Pan Tarkowski.

"Just about," corroborated Stas. "Khartûm lies where the White and Blue Niles meet and form
one river. We are separated from it by the immense expanse of Egypt and the whole of Nubia."

Afterwards he wanted to add that even if Medinet should be closer to the regions overrun by
the insurgents, he, of course, would be there with his short rifle; but recalling that for
similar bragging he sometimes received a sharp reproof from his father, he became silent.

The older members of the party, however, began to talk of the Mahdi and the insurrection, for
this was the most important matter affecting Egypt. The news from Khartûm was bad. The wild
hordes already had been besieging the city for a month and a half and the Egyptian and English
governments were acting slowly. The relief expedition had barely started and it was generally
feared that notwithstanding the fame, bravery, and ability of Gordon this important city would
fall into the hands of the barbarians. This was the opinion of Pan Tarkowski, who suspected
that England in her soul desired that the Mahdi should wrest it from Egypt in order to retake
it later from him and make this vast region an English possession. He did not, however, share
this suspicion with Mr. Rawlinson as he did not want to offend his patriotic feelings.

Towards the close of the dinner Stas began to ask why the Egyptian Government had annexed all
the country lying south of Nubia, particularly Kordofân, Darfur, and the Sudân as far as Lake
Albert Nyanza and deprived the natives there of their liberty. Mr. Rawlinson explained that
whatever was done by the Egyptian Government was done at the request of England which extended
a protectorate over Egypt and in reality ruled her as Egypt herself desired.

"The Egyptian Government did not deprive anybody of his liberty," he said, "but restored it
to hundreds of thousands and perhaps to millions of people. In Kordofân, in Darfur and in the
Sudân there were not during the past years any independent States. Only here and there some
petty ruler laid claim to some lands and took possession of them by force in spite of the will
of the residents. They were mainly inhabited by independent Arab-negro tribes, that is, by
people having the blood of both races. These tribes lived in a state of incessant warfare.
They attacked each other and seized horses, camels, cattle, and, above all, slaves; besides,
they perpetrated numerous atrocities. But the worst were the ivory and slave hunters. They
formed a separate class, to which belonged nearly all the chiefs of the tribes and the richer
traders. They made armed expeditions into the interior of Africa, appropriating everywhere
ivory tusks, and carried away thousands of people: men, women, and children. In addition they
destroyed villages and settlements, devastated fields, shed streams of blood, and slaughtered
without pity all who resisted. In the southern portion of the Sudân, Darfur, and Kordofân,
as well as the region beyond the Upper Nile as far as the lake they depopulated some localities
entirely. But the Arabian bands made their incursions farther and farther so that Central Africa
became a land of tears and blood. Now England which, as you know, pursues slave-dealers all
over the world, consented that the Egyptian Government should annex Kordofân, Darfur, and the
Sudân. This was the only method to compel these pillagers to abandon their abominable trade
and the only way to hold them in restraint. The unfortunate negroes breathed more freely; the
depredations ceased and the people began to live under tolerable laws. But such a state of
affairs did not please the traders, so when Mohammed Ahmed, known to-day as 'the Mahdi,' appeared
among them and proclaimed a holy war on the pretext that the true faith of Mahomet was perishing,
all rushed like one man to arms; and so that terrible war has been kindled in which thus far
the Egyptians have met with such poor success. The Mahdi has defeated the forces of the Government
in every battle. He has occupied Kordofân, Darfur, and the Sudân; his hordes at present are
laying a siege to Khartûm and are advancing to the north as far as the frontiers of Nubia."

"Can they advance as far as Egypt?" asked Stas.

"No," answered Mr. Rawlinson. "The Mahdi announces, indeed, that he will conquer the whole
world, but he is a wild man who has no conception of anything. He never will take Egypt, as
England would not permit it."

"If, however, the Egyptian troops are completely routed?"

"Then would appear the English armies which no one has ever overcome."

"And why did England permit the Mahdi to occupy so much territory?"

"How do you know that she has permitted it?" replied Mr. Rawlinson. "England is never in a
hurry because she is eternal."

Further conversation was interrupted by a negro servant, who announced that Fatma Smain had
arrived and begged for an audience.

Women in the East are occupied exclusively with household affairs and seldom leave the harems.
Only the poorer ones go to the market or work in the fields, as the wives of the fellahs, the
Egyptian peasants, do; but these at such times veil their faces. Though in the Sudân, from
which region Fatma came, this custom was not observed, and though she had come to Mr. Rawlinson's
office previously, nevertheless, her arrival, particularly at such a late hour and at a private
house, evoked surprise.

"We shall learn something new about Smain," said Pan Tarkowski.

"Yes," answered Mr. Rawlinson, giving at the same time a signal to the servant to usher Fatma in.

Accordingly, after a while there entered a tall, young Sudânese woman with countenance entirely
unveiled, complexion very dark, and eyes beautiful but wild, and a trifle ominous. Entering,
she at once prostrated herself, and when Mr. Rawlinson ordered her to rise, she raised herself
but remained on her knees.

"Sidi," she said, "May Allah bless thee, thy posterity, thy home, and thy flocks!"

"What do you want?" asked the engineer.

"Mercy, help, and succor in misfortune, oh, sir! I am imprisoned in Port Said and destruction
hangs over me and my children."

"You say that you are imprisoned, and yet you could come here, and in the night-time at that."

"I have been escorted by the police who day and night watch my house, and I know that they
have an order to cut off our heads soon!"

"Speak like a rational woman," answered Mr. Rawlinson, shrugging his shoulders. "You are not
in the Sudân, but in Egypt where no one is executed without a trial. So you may be certain
that not a hair will fall from your head or the heads of your children."

But she began to implore him to intercede for her yet once more with the Government, to procure
permission for her to go to Smain.

"Englishmen as great as you are, sir," she said, "can do everything. The Government in Cairo
thinks that Smain is a traitor, but that is false. There visited me yesterday Arabian merchants,
who arrived from Suâkin, and before that they bought gums and ivory in the Sudân, and they
informed me that Smain is lying sick at El-Fasher and is calling for me and the children to
bless them--"

"All this is your fabrication, Fatma," interrupted Mr. Rawlinson.

But she began to swear by Allah that she spoke the truth, and afterwards said that if Smain
got well, he undoubtedly would ransom all the Christian captives; and if he should die, she,
as a relative of the leader of the dervishes, could obtain access to him easily and would secure
whatever she wished. Let them only allow her to leave, for her heart will leap out of her bosom
from longing for her husband. In what had she, ill-fated woman, offended the Government or
the Khedive? Was it her fault or could she be held accountable because she was the relative
of the dervish, Mohammed Ahmed?

Fatma did not dare in the presence of the "English people" to call her relative "the Mahdi,"
as that meant the Redeemer of the world. She knew that the Egyptian Government regarded him
as a rebel and an imposter. But continually striking her forehead and invoking heaven to witness
her innocence and unhappy plight, she began to weep and at the same time wail mournfully as
women in the East do after losing husbands or sons. Afterwards she again flung herself with
face on the ground, or rather on the carpet with which the inlaid floor was covered, and waited
in silence.

Nell, who towards the close of the dinner felt a little sleepy, became thoroughly aroused and,
having an upright little heart, seized her father's hand, and kissing it again and again, began
to beg for Fatma.

"Let papa help her! Do please, papa!"

Fatma, evidently understanding English, exclaimed amidst her sobs, not removing her face from
the carpet:

"May Allah bless thee, bird of paradise, with the joys of Omayya, oh, star without a blemish!"

However implacable Stas in his soul was towards the Mahdists, he was moved by Fatma's entreaties
and grief. Besides, Nell interceded for her and he in the end always wanted that which Nell
wished. So after a while he spoke out, as if to himself but so that all could hear him:

"If I were the Government, I would allow Fatma to go."

"But as you are not the Government," Pan Tarkowski said to him, "you would do better not to
interfere in that which does not concern you."

Mr. Rawlinson also had a compassionate soul and was sensible of Fatma's situation, but certain
statements which she made struck him as being downright falsehoods. Having almost daily relations
with the custom-house at Ismailia, he well knew that no new cargoes of gums or ivory were being
transported lately through the Canal. The trade in those wares had ceased almost entirely.
Arabian traders, moreover, could not return from the city of El-Fasher which lay in the Sudân,
as the Mahdists, as a rule, barred all traders from their territories, and those whom they
captured were despoiled and kept in captivity. And it was almost a certainty that the statement
about Smain's sickness was a falsehood.

But as Nell's little eyes were still looking at her papa appealingly, he, not desiring to sadden
the little girl, after a while said to Fatma:

"Fatma, I already have written at your request to the Government, but without result. And now
listen. To-morrow, with this mehendis (engineer) whom you see here, I leave for Medinet el-Fayûm;
on the way we shall stop one day in Cairo, for the Khedive desires to confer with us about
the canals leading from Bahr Yûsuf and give us a commission as to the same. During the conference
I shall take care to present your case and try to secure for you his favor. But I can do nothing
more, nor shall I promise more."

Fatma rose and, extending both hands in sign of gratitude, exclaimed:

"And so I am safe."

"No, Fatma," answered Mr. Rawlinson, "do not speak of safety for I already told you that death
threatens neither you nor your children. But that the Khedive will consent to your departure
I do not guarantee, for Smain is not sick but is a traitor, who, having taken money from the
Government, does not at all think of ransoming the captives from Mohammed Ahmed."

"Smain is innocent, sir, and lies in El-Fasher," reiterated Fatma, "but if even he broke his
faith with the Government, I swear before you, my benefactor, that if I am allowed to depart
I will entreat Mohammed Ahmed until I secure the deliverance of your captives."

"Very well. I promise you once more that I will intercede for you with the Khedive."

Fatma began to prostrate herself.

"Thank you, Sidi! You are not only powerful, but just. And now I entreat that you permit me
to serve you as a slave."

"In Egypt no one can be a slave," answered Mr. Rawlinson with a smile. "I have enough servants
and cannot avail myself of your services; for, as I told you, we all are leaving for Medinet
and perhaps will remain there until Ramazan."

"I know, sir, for the overseer, Chadigi, told me about that. I, when I heard of it, came not
only to implore you for help, but also to tell you that two men of my Dongola tribe, Idris
and Gebhr, are camel drivers in Medinet and will prostrate themselves before you when you arrive,
submitting to your commands themselves and their camels."

"Good, good," answered the director, "but that is the affair of the Cook Agency, not mine."

Fatma, having kissed the hands of the two engineers and the children, departed blessing Nell
particularly. Both gentlemen remained silent for a while, after which Mr. Rawlinson said:

"Poor woman! But she lies as only in the East they know how to lie, and even in her declaration
of gratitude there is a sound of some false note."

"Undoubtedly," answered Pan Tarkowski; "but to tell the truth, whether Smain betrayed or did
not, the Government has no right to detain her in Egypt, as she cannot be held responsible
for her husband."

"The Government does not now allow any Sudânese to leave for Suâkin or Nubia without a special
permit; so the prohibition does not affect Fatma alone. Many of them are found in Egypt for
they come here for gain. Among them are some who belong to the Dongolese tribe; that is the
one from which the Mahdi comes. There are, for instance, besides Fatma, Chadigi and those two
camel drivers in Medinet. The Mahdists call the Egyptians Turks and are carrying on a war with
them, but among the local Arabs can be found a considerable number of adherents of the Mahdi,
who would willingly join him. We must number among them all the fanatics, all the partisans
of Arabi Pasha, and many among the poorer classes. They hold it ill of the Government that
it yielded entirely to English influence and claim that the religion suffers by it. God knows
how many already have escaped across the desert, avoiding the customary sea route to Suâkin.
So the Government, having learned that Fatma also wanted to run away, ordered her to be put
under surveillance. For her and her children only, as relatives of the Mahdi himself, can an
exchange of the captives be effected."

"Do the lower classes in Egypt really favor the Mahdi?"

"The Mahdi has followers even in the army, which perhaps for that reason fights so poorly."

"But how can the Sudânese fly across the desert? Why, that is a thousand miles."

"Nevertheless, by that route slaves were brought into Egypt."

"I should judge that Fatma's children could not endure such a journey."

"That is why she wants to shorten it and ride by way of the sea to Suâkin."

"In any case, she is a poor woman."

With this the conversation concluded.

Twelve hours later "the poor woman," having carefully closeted herself in her house with the
son of the overseer Chadigi, whispered to him with knitted brows and a grim glance of her beautiful
eyes:

"Chamis, son of Chadigi, here is the money. Go even to-day to Medinet and give to Idris this
writing, which the devout dervish Bellali, at my request, wrote to him. The children of the
mehendes are good, but if I do not obtain a permit, then there is no other alternative. I know
you will not betray me. Remember that you and your father too come from the Dongolese tribe
in which was born the great Mahdi."

III

Both engineers left the following night for Cairo where they were to visit the British minister
plenipotentiary and hold an audience with the viceroy. Stas calculated that this would require
two days, and his calculation appeared accurate, for on the third day at night he received
from his father, who was already at Medinet, the following message: "The tents are ready. You
are to leave the moment your vacation begins. Inform Fatma through Chadigi that we could not
accomplish anything for her." A similar message was also received by Madame Olivier who at
once, with the assistance of the negress Dinah, began to make preparations for the journey.

The sight of these preparations gladdened the hearts of the children. But suddenly an accident
occurred which deranged their plans and seemed likely to prevent their journey. On the day
on which Stas' winter vacation began and on the eve of their departure a scorpion stung Madame
Olivier during her afternoon nap in the garden. These venomous creatures in Egypt are not usually
very dangerous, but in this case the sting might become exceptionally baleful. The scorpion
had crawled onto the head-rest of the linen chair and stung Madame Olivier in the neck at a
moment when she leaned her head against the rest. As she had suffered lately from erysipelas
in the face, fear was entertained that the sickness might recur. A physician was summoned at
once, but he arrived two hours later as he had engagements elsewhere. The neck and even the
face were already swollen, after which fever appeared, with the usual symptoms of poisoning.
The physician announced that under the circumstances there could not be any talk of a journey
and ordered the patient to bed. In view of this it seemed highly probable that the children
would be compelled to pass the Christmas holidays at home. In justice to Nell it must be stated
that in the first moments particularly she thought more of the sufferings of her teacher than
of the lost pleasures in Medinet. She only wept in corners at the thought of not seeing her
father for a few weeks. Stas did not accept the accident with the same resignation. He first
forwarded a dispatch and afterwards mailed a letter with an inquiry as to what they were to
do. The reply came in two days. Mr. Rawlinson first communicated with the physician; having
learned from him that immediate danger was removed and that only a fear of the recurrence of
erysipelas prevented Madame Olivier's departure from Port Said, he, above all, took precaution
that she should have proper care and nursing, and afterwards sent the children permission to
travel with Dinah. But as Dinah, notwithstanding her extreme attachment for Nell, was not able
to take care of herself on the railways and in the hotels, the duties of guide and paymaster
during this trip devolved upon Stas. It can easily be understood how proud he was of this role
and with what chivalrous spirit he assured little Nell that not a hair would fall from her
head, as if in reality the road to Cairo and to Medinet presented any difficulties or dangers.

All preparations having been completed, the children started that very day for Ismailia by
way of the Canal. From Ismailia they were to travel by rail to Cairo, where they were to pass
the night. On the following day they were to ride to Medinet. Leaving Ismailia they saw Lake
Timsâh which Stas already knew, as Pan Tarkowski, being an ardent sportsman, in moments free
from his duties had taken Stas along with him to hunt for aquatic birds. Afterwards the road
ran along Wâdi Tûmilât close to the fresh-water canal leading from the Nile to Ismailia and
Suez. This canal had been dug before the Suez Canal, so that the workingmen working on De Lesseps'
grand achievement would not be deprived entirely of water fit for drinking purposes. But its
excavation had yet another fortunate result, for this region, which before was a sterile desert,
bloomed anew when through it coursed a strong and life-bringing stream of fresh water. The
children could observe on the left side from the windows of the coach a wide belt of verdure
composed of meadows on which were pastured horses, camels, and sheep, and of tilled fields,
diversified with maize, millet, alfalfa, and other varieties of plants used for fodder. On
the bank of the canal could be seen all kinds of wells in the shape of large wheels with buckets
attached, or in the usual form of well-sweeps, drawing water, which fellahs laboriously carried
to the garden-beds or conveyed in barrels, on wagons drawn by buffaloes. Over the sprouting
grain pigeons soared, and at times a whole covey of quails sprang up. On the canal banks, storks
and cranes gravely stalked. In the distance, above the mud hovels of the fellahs towered, like
plumes of feathers, the crowns of date palms.

On the other hand, on the north side of the railway there stretched a stark desert, but unlike
the one which lay on the other side of the Suez Canal. That one looked as level as would the
bottom of the sea, from which the water had disappeared and only wrinkled sand remained, while
here the sand was more yellowish, heaped up as if in great knolls, covered on the sides with
tufts of gray vegetation. Between those knolls, which here and there changed into high hills,
lay wide valleys in which from time to time caravans could be seen moving.

From the windows of the car the children could catch sight of heavily loaded camels, walking
in a long string, one after another, over the sandy expanse. In front of each camel was an
Arab in a black mantle, with a white turban on his head. Little Nell was reminded of the pictures
in the Bible, which she had seen at home, representing the Israelites entering Egypt during
the times of Joseph. They were exactly the same. Unfortunately she could not see the caravans
very well as at the windows on that side of the car sat two English officers, who obstructed
her view.

But she had scarcely told this to Stas, when he turned to the officers with a very grave mien
and, touching his hat with his finger, said:

"Gentlemen, could you kindly make room for this little Miss who wishes to look at the camels?"

Both officers accepted the suggestion with the same gravity, and one of them not only surrendered
his place to the curious Miss but lifted her and placed her in a seat near the window.

And Stas began his lecture:

"This is the ancient land of Goshen, which Pharaoh gave to Joseph for his brother Israelites.
At one time in far antiquity a canal of fresh water ran here so that this new one is but a
reconstruction of the old. But later it fell into ruin and the country became a desert. Now
the soil again is fertile."

"How does the gentleman know this?" asked one of the officers.

"At my age, we know such things," answered Stas; "and besides, not long ago Professor Sterling
gave us a lecture on Wâdi Tûmilât."

Though Stas spoke English quite fluently, his slightly different accent attracted the attention
of the other officer, who asked:

"Is the little gentleman an Englishman?"

"Miss Nell, whose father entrusted her to my care on this journey, is little. I am not an Englishman
but a Pole and the son of an engineer at the Canal."

The officer, hearing the answer of the pert boy, smiled and said:

"I esteem the Poles. I belong to a regiment of cavalry, which during the times of Napoleon
several times fought with the Polish Uhlans, and that tradition until the present day forms
its glory and honor."* [* Those regiments of English cavalry which during the times of Napoleon
met the Polish cavalry actually pride themselves with that fact at the present time, and every
officer speaking of his regiment never fails to say, "We fought with the Poles." See Chevrillon,
"Aux Indes."]

"I am pleased to form your acquaintance," answered Stas.

The conversation easily proceeded farther, for the officers were evidently amused. It appeared
that both were also riding from Port Said to Cairo to see the British minister plenipotentiary
and to receive final instructions for a long journey which soon awaited them. The younger one
was an army surgeon, while the one who spoke to Stas, Captain Glenn, had an order from his
government to proceed from Cairo, via Suez, to Mombasa and assume the government of the entire
region adjoining that port and extending as far as the unknown Samburu country.

Stas, who with deep interest read about travels in Africa, knew that Mombasa was situated a
few degrees beyond the equator and that the adjoining country, though already conceded to be
within the sphere of English interests, was yet in truth little known; it was utterly wild,
full of elephants, giraffes, rhinoceroses, buffaloes, and all kinds of antelopes, which the
military, missionary, and trading expeditions always encountered. He also envied Captain Glenn
with his whole soul and promised to visit him in Mombasa and go hunting with him for lions
and buffaloes.

"Good, but I shall invite you to make the visit with that little Miss," replied Captain Glenn,
laughing and pointing at Nell who at that moment left the window and sat beside him.

"Miss Rawlinson has a father," answered Stas, "and I am only her
guardian during this journey."
   At this the other officer turned quickly around and asked:

"Rawlinson? Is he not one of the directors of the Canal and has he not a brother in Bombay?"

"My uncle lives in Bombay," answered Nell, raising her little finger upwards.

"Then your uncle, darling, is married to my sister. My name is Clary. We are related, and I
am really delighted that I met and became acquainted with you, my little dear."

And the surgeon was really delighted. He said that immediately after his arrival at Port Said
he inquired for Mr. Rawlinson, but in the offices of the directory he was informed that he
had left for the holidays. He expressed also his regret that the steamer which he with Captain
Glenn was to take for Mombasa left Suez in a few days, in consequence of which he could not
make a hurried visit to Medinet.

He therefore requested Nell to convey his compliments to her father, and promised to write
to her from Mombasa. Both officers now engaged mainly in a conversation with Nell, so that
Stas remained a little on the side. At all stations they had a plentiful supply of mandarin
oranges, dates, and exquisite sherbet, and, besides by Stas and Nell, these dainties were shared
by Dinah, who with all her good qualities was known for her uncommon gluttony.

In this manner the trip to Cairo passed quickly for the children. At the leave-taking the officers
kissed Nell's little hands and face, and squeezed Stas' right hand, and at the same time, Captain
Glenn, whom the resolute boy pleased very much, said half-jokingly and half-seriously:

"Listen, my boy! Who knows where, when, and under what circumstances we may yet meet in life.
Remember, however, that you can always rely upon my good will and assistance."

"And you may likewise rely upon me," Stas answered with a bow full of dignity.

IV

Pan Tarkowski, as well as Mr. Rawlinson, who loved Nell better than his life, was delighted
at the arrival of the children. The young pair greeted their parents joyfully, and at once
began to look about the tents, which internally were completely fitted up and were ready for
the reception of the beloved guests. The tents appeared superb to them; they were double, one
was lined with blue and the other with red flannel, overlaid at the bottom with saddle-cloths,
and they were as spacious as large rooms. The agency which was concerned about the opinion
of the high officials of the Canal Company had spared no effort for their comfort. At first
Mr. Rawlinson feared that a lengthy stay under tents might prove injurious to Nell's health,
and if he agreed to the arrangement, it was because they could always move to a hotel in case
of bad weather. Now, however, having fully investigated everything on the place, he came to
the conclusion that days and nights passed in the fresh air would be a hundredfold more beneficial
for his only child than a stay in the musty rooms of the small local hotels. Beautiful weather
favored this. Medinet, or rather El-Medineh, surrounded by the sandy hills of the Libyan Desert,
has a much better climate than Cairo and is not in vain called "the land of roses." Owing to
its sheltered position and the plentiful moisture in the air, nights there are not so cold
as in other parts of Egypt, even those lying further south. Winter is simply delightful, and
from November the greatest development of the vegetation begins. Date palms, olive-trees, which
on the whole are scarce in Egypt, fig, orange, mandarin trees, giant castor-oil plants, pomegranate
and various other southern plants cover this delightful oasis as with a forest. The gardens
are overflowing, as it were, with a gigantic wave of acacias, elders, and roses, so that at
night every breeze carries their intoxicating scent. Here one breathes with full breast and
"does not wish to die," as the residents of the place say.

A similar climate is possessed only by Helwan lying on the other side of the Nile and considerably
farther north, but Helwan lacks such luxuriant vegetation.

But Helwan awoke sad recollections for Mr. Rawlinson, for there Nell's mother had died. For
this reason he preferred Medinet, and gazing at present at the glowing countenance of the little
girl, he promised to himself in his soul soon to purchase here land with a garden; to erect
upon it a comfortable English house and spend in these blissful parts all vacations which he
could secure, and after finishing his service on the Canal, perhaps even to reside here permanently.

But these were plans of the distant future and not yet wholly matured. In the meantime the
children from the moment of their arrival moved about everywhere like flies, desiring even
before dinner to see all the tents as well as the donkeys and camels hired at the place by
the Cook Agency. It appeared that the animals were on a distant pasture and that they could
not see them until the morrow. However, near Mr. Rawlinson's tent they observed with pleasure
Chamis, the son of Chadigi, their good acquaintance in Port Said. He was not in the employ
of Cook, and Mr. Rawlinson was somewhat surprised to meet him in Medinet, but as he had previously
employed him to carry his implements, he engaged him at present to run errands and perform
all other small services.

The evening dinner was excellent, as the old Copt, who for many years was a cook in the employment
of the Cook Agency, was anxious to display his culinary skill. The children told about the
acquaintance they made with the two officers on the way, which was particularly interesting
to Mr. Rawlinson, whose brother Richard was married to Dr. Clary's sister and had resided in
India for many years. As it was a childless marriage, this uncle greatly loved his little niece,
whom he knew only from photographs, and he had inquired about her in all his letters. Both
fathers were also amused at the invitation which Stas had received from Captain Glenn to visit
Mombasa. The boy took it seriously and positively promised himself that sometime he must pay
a visit to his new friend beyond the equator. Pan Tarkowski then had to explain to him that
English officials never remain long in the same locality on account of the deadly climate of
Africa, and that before Stas grew up the captain already would hold his tenth position in rotation
or would not be on earth at all.

After dinner the whole company went out in front of the tents, where the servants placed the
cloth folding-chairs, and for the older gentlemen brought a siphon of soda-water with brandy.
It was already night but unusually warm; as there happened to be full moon it was as bright
as in daytime. The white walls of the city buildings opposite the tents shone greenly; the
stars glowed in the sky, and in the air was diffused the scent of roses, acacias, and heliotropes.
The city already was asleep. In the silence of the night at times could be heard only the loud
cries of cranes, herons, and flamingoes flying from beyond the Nile in the direction of Lake
Karûn. Suddenly, however, there resounded the deep bass bark of a dog which astonished Stas
and Nell, for it appeared to come from a tent which they had not visited and which was assigned
for saddles, implements, and various traveling paraphernalia.

"That must be an awfully big dog. Let us go and see him," said Stas.

Pan Tarkowski began to laugh and Mr. Rawlinson shook off the ashes of his cigar and said, also
laughing:

"Well, it did not do any good to lock him up."

After which he addressed the children:

"Remember, to-morrow is Christmas Eve, and that dog was intended by Pan Tarkowski to be a surprise
for Nell, but as the surprise has started to bark, I am compelled to announce it to-day."

Hearing this, Nell climbed in a trice on Pan Tarkowski's knees and embraced his neck and afterwards
jumped onto her father's lap.

"Papa, how happy I am! how happy I am!"

Of hugs and kisses there was no end. Finally Nell, finding herself on her own feet, began to
gaze in Pan Tarkowski's eyes:

"Pan Tarkowski--"

"What is it, Nell?"

"--As I already know that he is there, can I see him to-night?"

"I knew," exclaimed Mr. Rawlinson, feigning indignation, "that this little fly would not be
content with the news itself."

And Pan Tarkowski, turning to the son of Chadigi, said:

"Chamis, bring the dog."

The young Sudânese disappeared behind the kitchen tent and after a while reappeared, leading
a big dog by the collar.

Nell retreated.

"Oh," she exclaimed, seizing her father's hand.

On the other hand, Stas grew enthusiastic.

"But that is a lion, not a dog," he said.

"He is called Saba (lion)," answered Pan Tarkowski. "He belongs to the breed of mastiffs; these
are the biggest dogs in the world. This one is only two years old but really is exceedingly
large. Don't be afraid, Nell, as he is as gentle as a lamb. Only be brave. Let him go, Chamis."

Chamis let go of the collar with which he had restrained the dog, and the latter, feeling that
he was free, began to wag his tail, fawn before Pan Tarkowski with whom he was already well
acquainted, and bark joyfully.

The children gazed in the moonlight with admiration on his large round head with hanging lips,
on his bulky paws, on his powerful frame, reminding one, in truth, of a lion with the tawny-yellowish
color of his body.

"With such a dog one could safely go through Africa," exclaimed Stas.

"Ask him whether he could retrieve a rhinoceros," said Pan Tarkowski.

Saba could not, indeed, answer that question, but instead wagged his tail more and more joyfully
and drew near to the group so ingratiatingly that Nell at once ceased to fear him and began
to pat him on his head.

"Saba, nice, dear Saba."

Mr. Rawlinson leaned over him, raised his head towards the face of the little girl, and said:

"Saba, look at this little lady. She is your mistress. You must obey and guard her. Do you
understand?"

"Wow!" was the basso response of Saba, as if he actually understood what was wanted.

And he understood even better than might have been expected, for taking advantage of the fact
that his head was on a level with the little girl's face, as a mark of homage he licked her
little nose and cheeks with his broad tongue.

This provoked a general outburst of laughter. Nell had to go to the tent to wash herself. Returning
after a quarter of an hour she saw Saba with paws upon the shoulders of Stas, who bent under
the weight; the dog was higher by a head.

The time for sleep was approaching, but the little one asked for yet half an hour of play in
order to get better acquainted with her new friend. In fact, the acquaintance proceeded so
easily that Pan Tarkowski soon placed her in lady fashion on Saba's back and, holding her from
fear that she might fall, ordered Stas to lead the dog by the collar. She rode thus a score
of paces, after which Stas tried to mount this peculiar "saddle-horse," but the dog sat on
his hind legs so that Stas unexpectedly found himself on the sand near the tail.

The children were about to retire when in the distance on the market place, illumined by the
moon, appeared two white figures walking towards the tents.

The hitherto gentle Saba began to growl hollowly and threateningly so that Chamis, at Mr. Rawlinson's
order, again had to take hold of the collar, and in the meantime two men dressed in white burnooses
stood before the tent.

"Who is there?" asked Pan Tarkowski.

"Camel drivers," answered one of the arrivals.

"Ah, Idris and Gebhr? What do you want?"

"We come to ask whether you will need us to-morrow."

"No. To-morrow and the day after are great holidays, during which it is not proper to make
excursions. Come on the morning of the third day."

"Thank you, effendi."

"Have you good camels?" asked Mr. Rawlinson.

"Bismillah!" answered Idris; "real saddle-horses with fat humps and as
gentle as ha'-ga (lambs). Otherwise Cook would not have employed us."
   "Do they jolt much?"

"Gentlemen, you can place a handful of kidney-beans on their backs and not a grain will fall
during the fullest speed."

"If one is to exaggerate, then exaggerate after the Arabian fashion," said Pan Tarkowski, laughing.

"Or after the Sudânese," added Mr. Rawlinson.

In the meantime Idris and Gebhr continued to stand like two white columns, gazing attentively
at Stas and Nell. The moon illumined their very dark faces, and in its luster they looked as
if cast of bronze. The whites of their eyes glittered greenishly from under the turbans.

"Good night to you," said Mr. Rawlinson.

"May Allah watch over you, effendi, in night and in day."

Saying this, they bowed and went away. They were accompanied by a hollow growl, similar to
distant thunder, from Saba, whom the two Sudânese apparently did not please.

V

During the following days there were no excursions. Instead, on Christmas Eve, when the first
star appeared in heaven, a little tree in Mr. Rawlinson's tent, intended for Nell, was illuminated
with hundreds of candles. To serve as a Christmas tree there had been taken an arbor vitae,
cut in one of the gardens in Medinet; nevertheless, among its branchlets Nell found a profusion
of dainties and a splendid doll, which her father had brought from Cairo for her, and Stas,
his much desired English short rifle. In addition he received from his father packages containing
various hunters' supplies, and a saddle for horseback riding. Nell could not contain herself
for joy, while Stas, although he thought that whoever owned a genuine short rifle ought to
possess a corresponding dignity, could not restrain himself, and selecting the time when no
one was about, walked around the tent on his hands. This knack, taught to him at the Port Said
school, he possessed to a surprising degree and with it often amused Nell, who, besides, sincerely
envied it in him.

Christmas Eve and the first day of the holidays were passed by the children partly in church
services, partly in inspecting the gifts they had received, and in training Saba. The new friend
appeared to possess intelligence beyond all expectations. On the very first day he learned
to give his paw, retrieve handkerchiefs, which, however, he would not surrender without some
resistance, and he understood that cleaning Nell's face with his tongue was an act unworthy
of a gentlemanly dog. Nell, holding her fingers at her little nose, gave him various instructions,
while he, concurring with motions of his tail, gave her in this manner to understand that he
heard with becoming attention and took her lessons to heart. During their strolls over the
sandy city square the fame of Saba in Medinet grew with each hour and, even as all fame, began
to have its disagreeable side, for it drew a whole swarm of Arabian children. In the beginning
they kept at a distance; afterwards, however, emboldened by the gentleness of the "monster,"
they approached more and more closely, and in the end sat around the tent so that no one could
move about with any freedom. Besides, as every Arabian child sucks sugar-cane from morning
to night, the children always attract after them legions of flies, which besides being loathsome
are noxious, for they spread the Egyptian infection of inflammation of the eyes. For this reason
the servants attempted to disperse the children, but Nell stood in their defense and, what
is more, distributed among the youngest "helou," that is, sweetmeats, which gained for her
their great love but also increased their number.

After three days the joint excursions began; partly on the narrow-gauge railways of which the
English had built quite a number in Medinet el-Fayûm, partly on donkeys, and sometimes on camels.
It appeared that in the praises bestowed on those animals by Idris there was indeed a great
deal of exaggeration, for not merely kidney-beans but even people could not easily keep on
the saddles; but there was also some truth. The camels in reality belonged to the variety known
as "hegin," that is, for carrying passengers, and were fed with good durra (the local or Syrian
maize) so that the humps were fat and they appeared so willing to speed that it was necessary
to check them. The Sudânese, Idris and Gebhr, gained, notwithstanding the wild glitter of their
eyes, the confidence and hearts of the company, and this through their great willingness to
serve and their extraordinary care over Nell. Gebhr always had a cruel and a trifle bestial
expression of face, but Idris, quickly perceiving that that little personage was the eye in
the head of the whole company, declared at every opportunity that he cared more for her than
for his own soul. Mr. Rawlinson conjectured indeed, that, through Nell, Idris wanted to reach
his pocket, but believing at the same time that there was not in the world a person who could
not but love his only child, he was grateful to him and did not stint himself in giving "bakshish."

In the course of five days the party visited the near by ruins of the ancient city of Crocodilopolis,
where at one time the Egyptians worshipped a deity called Sobk, which had a human form with
the head of a crocodile. Afterwards an excursion was made to the Hanar pyramids and the remains
of the Labyrinth. The longest trip was on camel-back to Lake Karûn. Its northern shore was
a stark desert, on which there were ruins of former Egyptian cities, but no trace of life.
On the other hand, on the southern shore stretched a fertile country, magnificent, with shores
overgrown by heather and reeds and teeming with pelicans, flamingoes, herons, wild geese, and
ducks. Only here did Stas find an opportunity for displaying his marksmanship. The shooting
from a common rifle as well as from the short rifle was so extraordinary that after every shot
could be heard the astonished smacking of the lips of Idris and the Arabian rowers, and the
falling of the birds into the water was accompanied by exclamations of "Bismillah" and "Mashallah."

The Arabians assured them that on the opposite desert-shore were many wolves and hyenas, and
that by tossing amid the sand dunes the carcass of a sheep one might get within shooting range.
In consequence of these assurances Pan Tarkowski and Stas passed two nights on the desert near
the ruins of Dima. But the first sheep was stolen by Bedouins as soon as the hunters left it;
while the second lured only a lame jackal, which Stas brought down. Further hunting had to
be postponed as the time had arrived for both engineers to inspect the works conducted at Bahr
Yûsuf near El-Lahûn, southeast from Medinet.

Mr. Rawlinson waited only for the arrival of Madame Olivier. Unfortunately, in place of her,
came a letter from the physician informing them that the former erysipelas in the face had
recurred after the bite, and that the patient for a long time would be unable to leave Port
Said. The situation actually became distressing. It was impossible to take with them the children,
old Dinah, the tents, and all the servants, if only for the reason that the engineers were
to be one day here, another there, and might receive requests to go as far as the great canal
of Ibrâhimiyeh. In view of this, after a short consultation Mr. Rawlinson decided to leave
Nell under the care of old Dinah and Stas, together with the Italian consular agent and the
local "Mudir" (governor) with whom he had previously become acquainted. He promised also to
Nell, who grieved to part from her father, that from all the nearer localities he would with
Pan Tarkowski rush to Medinet, or if they found some noteworthy sight, would summon the children
to them.

"We shall take with us, Chamis," he said, "whom in a certain case we shall send for you. Let
Dinah always keep Nell's company, but as Nell does with her whatever she pleases, do you, Stas,
watch over both."

"You may be sure, sir," answered Stas, "that I shall watch over Nell, as over my own sister.
She has Saba, and I a short rifle, so let any one try to harm her--"

"It is not about that that I am concerned," said Mr. Rawlinson. "Saba and the short rifle will
certainly not be necessary for you. You will be so good as to protect her from fatigue and
at the same time take care she does not catch cold. I have asked the consul in case she feels
unwell to summon a doctor from Cairo immediately. We shall send Chamis here for news as frequently
as possible. The Mudir will also visit you. I expect, besides, that our absence will never
be very long."

Pan Tarkowski also was not sparing in his admonitions to Stas. He told him that Nell did not
require his defense as there was not in Medinet nor in the whole province of El-Fayûm any savage
people or wild animals. To think of such things would be ridiculous and unworthy of a boy who
had begun his fourteenth year. So he was to be solicitous and heedful only that they did not
undertake anything on their own account, and more particularly excursions with Nell on camels,
on which a ride was fatiguing.

But Nell, hearing this, made such a sad face that Pan Tarkowski had to placate her.

"Certainly," he said, stroking her hair, "you will ride camels, but with us or towards us,
if we send Chamis for you."

"But when alone are we not allowed to make an excursion, even though such a tiny bit of a one?"
asked the girl.

And she began to show on her finger about how little an excursion she was concerned. The parents
in the end agreed that they could ride on donkeys, not on camels, and not to ruins, where they
might easily fall into some hole, but over roads of adjacent fields and towards the gardens
beyond the city. The dragoman, together with other Cook servants, was always to accompany the
children.

After this both gentlemen departed, but they left for a place near by, Hanaret el-Matka, so
that after ten hours they returned to pass the night in Medinet. This was repeated the succeeding
few days until they had inspected all the nearest work. Afterwards, when their employment required
their presence at more distant places, Chamis arrived in the night time, and early in the following
morning took Stas and Nell to those little cities, in which their parents wanted to show them
something of interest. The children spent the greater part of the day with their parents and
before sunset returned to the camp at Medinet. There were, however, days on which Chamis did
not come, and then Nell, notwithstanding the society of Stas, and Saba in whom she continually
discovered some new traits, looked with longing for a messenger. In this manner the time passed
until Twelfth Night, on the day of which festival both engineers returned to Medinet.

Two days later they went away again, announcing that they left this time for a longer period
and in all probability would reach as far as Benisueif, and from there to El-Fachn, where a
canal of the same name begins, going far south alongside of the Nile.

Great, therefore, was the astonishment of the children, when on the third day at eleven o'clock
in the morning Chamis appeared in Medinet. Stas met him first as he went to the pasturage to
look at the camels. Chamis conversed with Idris, and only told Stas that he came for him and
Nell and that he would come immediately to the camp to inform them where they, at the request
of the older gentlemen, were to go. Stas ran at once with the good news to Nell, whom he found
playing with Saba before the tent.

"Do you know--Chamis is here!" he cried from a distance.

And Nell began at once to hop, holding both feet together, as little girls do when skipping
the rope.

"We shall go! We shall go!"

"Yes. We shall go, and far."

"Where?" she asked, brushing aside with her little hands a tuft of hair which fell over her eyes.

"I don't know. Chamis said that in a moment he would come here and tell us."

"How do you know it is far?"

"Because I heard Idris say that he and Gebhr would start at once with the camels. That means
that we shall go by rail and shall find the camels at the place where our parents will be,
and from there we shall make some kind of an excursion."

The tuft of hair, owing to the continual hops, covered again not only Nell's eyes but her whole
face, her feet bounding as if they were made of India rubber.

A quarter of an hour later, Chamis came and bowed to both.

"Khanage (young master)," he said, "we leave after three hours by the first train."

"Where are we going?"

"To Gharak el-Sultani, and from there with the older gentlemen on camel-back to Wâdi Rayân."

Stas' heart beat with joy, but at the same time Chamis' words surprised him. He knew that Wâdi
Rayân was a great valley among sandy hills rising on the Libyan Desert on the south and southwest
of Medinet, while on the other hand Pan Tarkowski and Mr. Rawlinson announced on their departure
that they were going in a directly opposite direction, towards the Nile.

"What has happened?" asked Stas. "Then my father and Mr. Rawlinson are not in Benisueif but
in El-Gharak?"

"It happened thus," replied Chamis.

"But they ordered us to write to them at El-Fachn."

"In a letter the senior effendi explains why they are in El-Gharak."

And for a while he searched on his person for the letter, after which he exclaimed:

"Oh, Nabi! (prophet) I left the letter in a pouch with the camels. I will run at once before
Idris and Gebhr depart."

And he ran towards the camels. In the meantime the children, with Dinah, began to prepare for
the journey. As it looked as if the excursion would be a long one, Dinah packed several dresses,
some linen, and warmer clothing for Nell. Stas thought of himself, and especially did not forget
about the short rifle and cartridges, hoping that among the sand dunes of Wâdi Rayân he might
encounter wolves and hyenas.

Chamis did not return until an hour later; he was covered with perspiration and so fatigued
that for a while he could not catch his breath.

"I did not find the camels," he said. "I chased after them, but in vain. But that does not
matter as we shall find the letter and the effendis themselves in El-Gharak. Is Dinah to go
with you?"

"Why not?"

"Perhaps it would be better if she remained. The older gentlemen said nothing about her."

"But they announced on leaving that Dinah was always to accompany the little lady. So she shall
ride now."

Chamis bowed, placing his hand on his heart and said:

"Let us hasten, sir, for otherwise the katr (train) will set off."

The baggage was ready, so they were at the station on time. The distance between Medinet and
Gharak is not more than nineteen miles, but the trains on the branch line which connects those
localities move slowly and the stops were uncommonly frequent. If Stas had been alone he undoubtedly
would have preferred to ride camel-back as he calculated that Idris and Gebhr, having started
two hours before the train, would be earlier in El-Gharak. But for Nell such a ride would be
too long; and the little guardian, who took very much to heart the warnings of both parents,
did not want to expose the little girl to fatigue. After all the time passed for both so quickly
that they scarcely noticed when they stopped in Gharak.

The little station, from which Englishmen usually make excursions to Wâdi Rayân, was almost
entirely deserted. They found only a few veiled women, with baskets of mandarin oranges, two
unknown Bedouin camel drivers, together with Idris and Gebhr, with seven camels, one of which
was heavily packed. Of Pan Tarkowski and Mr. Rawlinson there was no trace.

But Idris in this manner explained their absence.

"The older gentlemen went into the desert to pitch the tents which they brought with them from
Etsah, and ordered us to follow them."

"And how shall we find them among the sand-hills?" asked Stas.

"They sent guides who will lead us to them."

Saying this he pointed to the Bedouins. The older of them bowed, rubbed with his finger the
one eye which he possessed, and said:

"Our camels are not so fat but are not less speedy than yours. After an hour we shall be there."

Stas was glad that he would pass the night on the desert, but Nell felt a certain disappointment,
for she had been certain that she would meet her papa in Gharak.

In the meantime the station-master, a sleepy Egyptian with a red fez and dark spectacles, approached
them, and, not having anything else to do, began to stare at the European children.

"These are the children of those Englishmen who rode this morning with rifles to the desert,"
said Idris, placing Nell on the saddle.

Stas, handing his short rifle to Chamis, sat beside her, for the saddle was wide and had the
shape of a palanquin without a roof. Dinah sat behind Chamis, the others took separate camels,
and the party started.

If the station-master had stared at them longer he might perhaps have wondered that those Englishmen,
of whom Idris spoke, rode directly to the ruins on the south, while this party at once directed
its movements towards Talei, in a different direction. But the station-master before that time
had returned home as no other train arrived that day at Gharak.

The hour was five in the afternoon. The weather was splendid. The sun had already passed on
that side of the Nile and declined over the desert, sinking into the golden and purple twilight
glowing on the western side of the sky. The atmosphere was so permeated with the roseate luster
that the eyes blinked from its superfluity. The fields assumed a lily tint, while the distant
sand-hills, strongly relieved against the background of the twilight, had a hue of pure amethyst.
The world lost the traits of reality and appeared to be one play of supernal lights.

While they rode over a verdant and cultivated region, the guide, a Bedouin, conducted the caravan
with a moderate pace. But with the moment that the hard sand creaked under the feet of the
camels, everything changed.

"Yalla! Yalla!" suddenly yelled wild voices.

And simultaneously could be heard the swish of whips and the camels, having changed from an
ambling pace into a full gallop, began to speed like the whirlwind, throwing up with their
feet the sand and gravel of the desert.

"Yalla! Yalla!"

The ambling pace of a camel jolts more, while the gallop with which this animal seldom runs,
swings more; so the children enjoyed this mad ride. But it is known that even in a swing, too
much rapid movement causes dizziness. Accordingly, after a certain time, when the speed did
not cease, Nell began to get dizzy and her eyes grew dim.

"Stas, why are we flying so?" she exclaimed, turning to her companion.

"I think that they allowed them to get into too much of a gallop and now cannot check them,"
answered Stas.

But observing that the little girl's face was becoming pale, he shouted at the Bedouins, running
ahead, to slacken their pace. His calls, however, had only this result: that again resounded
the cries of "Yalla," and the animals increased their speed.

The boy thought at first that the Bedouins did not hear him, but when on his repeated orders
there was no response and when Gebhr, who was riding behind him, did not cease lashing the
camel on which he sat with Nell, he thought it was not the camels that were so spirited but
that the men for some reason unknown to him were in a great hurry.

It occurred to him that they might have taken the wrong road and that, desiring to make up
for lost time, they now were speeding from fear that the older gentlemen might scold them because
of a late arrival. But after a while he understood that such could not be the case, as Mr.
Rawlinson would have been more angered for unnecessarily fatiguing Nell. Then what did it mean?
And why did they not obey his commands? In the heart of the boy anger and fear for Nell began
to rise.

"Stop!" he shouted with his whole strength, addressing Gebhr.

"Ouskout! (be silent)!" the Sudânese yelled in reply; and they sped on.

In Egypt night falls about six o'clock, so the twilight soon became extinct and after a certain
time the great moon, ruddy from the reflection of the twilight, rolled on and illuminated the
desert with a gentle light.

In the silence could be heard only the heavy breathing of the camels, the rapid hoof-beats
on the sand, and at times the swish of whips. Nell was so tired that Stas had to hold her on
the saddle. Every little while she asked how soon they would reach then destination, and evidently
was buoyed up only by the hope of an early meeting with her father. But in vain both children
gazed around. One hour passed, then another; neither tents nor camp-fires could be seen.

Then the hair rose on Stas' head, for he realized that they were kidnapped.

VI

Messrs. Rawlinson and Tarkowski actually expected the children, not amidst the sand-hills of
Wâdi Rayân, where they had no need or desire to ride, but in an entirely different direction,
in the city of El-Fachn on a canal of the same name at which they were examining the work finished
before the end of the year. The distance between El-Fachn and Medinet in a straight line is
almost twenty-eight miles. As, however, there is no direct connection and it is necessary to
ride to El-Wasta, which doubles the distance, Mr. Rawlinson, after looking over the railway
guide, made the following calculations.

"Chamis left the night before last," he said to Pan Tarkowski, "and in El-Wasta he caught the
train from Cairo; he was therefore in Medinet yesterday. It would take an hour to pack up.
Leaving at noon they would have to wait for the night train running along the Nile, and as
I do not permit Nell to ride at night, they would leave this morning and will be here immediately
after sunset."

"Yes," said Pan Tarkowski, "Chamis must rest a little, and though Stas is indeed impulsive,
nevertheless, where Nell is concerned you may always depend upon him. Moreover, I sent him
a postal card not to ride during the night."

"A brave lad, and I trust him," answered Mr. Rawlinson.

"To tell the truth, so do I. Stas with his various faults has an upright character and never
lies, for he is brave, and only a coward lies. He also does not lack energy and if in time
he acquires a calm judgment, I think he will be able to take care of himself in this world."

"Certainly. As to judgment, were you judicious at his age?"

"I must confess that I was not," replied Pan Tarkowski, laughing, "but I was not so self-confident
as he."

"That will pass. Meanwhile, be happy that you have such a boy."

"And you that you have such a sweet and dear creature as Nell."

"May God bless her!" answered Mr. Rawlinson with emotion.

The two friends warmly shook hands, after which they sat down to examine the plans and the
report of expenditures connected with the work. At this occupation the time passed until evening.

About six o'clock, when night fell, they were at the station, strolling along the walk, and
resumed their conversation about the children.

"Superb weather, but cool," said Mr. Rawlinson. "I wonder if Nell took some warm clothing with
her."

"Stas will think of that, and Dinah also."

"I regret, nevertheless, that instead of bringing them here, we did not go to Medinet."

"You will recollect that that is just what I advised."

"I know, and if it were not that we are to go from here farther south, I would have agreed.
I calculated, however, that the trip would take too much time and on the whole it would be
best to have the children here. Finally, I will confess to you that Chamis suggested the idea
to me. He announced that he prodigiously yearned for them and would be happy if I sent for
both. I am not surprised that he should be so attached to them."

Further conversation was interrupted by signals announcing the approach of the train. After
an interval the fiery eyes of the locomotive appeared in the darkness, and at the same time
could be heard its puffs and whistle.

A row of lighted coaches drew alongside the platform, quivered, and stood still.

"I did not see them in any window," said Mr. Rawlinson.

"Perhaps they are seated further inside and surely will come out immediately."

The passengers began to alight, but they were mainly Arabs, as El-Fachn has nothing interesting
to see except beautiful groves of palms and acacias. The children did not arrive.

"Chamis either did not make connections in El-Wasta," declared Pan Tarkowski, with a shade
of ill-humor, "or after a night of travel overslept himself, and they will not arrive until
to-morrow."

"That may be," answered Mr. Rawlinson, with uneasiness, "but it also may be possible that one
of them is sick."

"In that case Stas would have telegraphed."

"Who knows but that we may find a despatch in the hotel?"

"Let us go."

But in the hotel no news awaited them. Mr. Rawlinson became more and more uneasy.

"What do you think could have happened?" said Pan Tarkowski. "If Chamis overslept himself,
he would not admit it to the children and would come to them to-day and tell them that they
are to leave to-morrow. To us he will excuse himself by claiming that he misunderstood our
orders. In any event, I shall telegraph to Stas."

"And I to the Mudir of Fayûm."

After a while the despatches were sent. There was indeed no cause for uneasiness; nevertheless,
in waiting for an answer the engineers passed a bad night, and early morning found them on
their feet.

The answer from the Mudir came about ten o'clock and was as follows:

"Verified at station. Children left yesterday for Gharak el-Sultani."

It can easily be understood what amazement and anger possessed the parents at this unexpected
intelligence. For some time they gazed at each other, as if they did not understand the words
of the despatch; after which Pan Tarkowski, who was an impulsive person, struck the table with
his hand and said:

"That was Stas' whim, but I will cure him of such whims."

"I did not expect that of him," answered Nell's father.

But after a moment he asked:

"But what of Chamis?"

"He either did not find them and does not know what to do or else rode after them."

"Yes, I think so."

An hour later they started for Medinet. In camp they ascertained that the camels were gone,
and at the station it was confirmed that Chamis left with the children for El-Gharak. The affair
became darker and darker and it could be cleared up only in El-Gharak.

In fact, only at that station did the dreadful truth begin to dawn.

The station-master, the same sleepy one with dark spectacles and red fez, told them that he
saw a boy about fourteen years old and an eight-year-old girl with an old negress, who rode
towards the desert. He did not remember whether there were eight or nine camels altogether,
but observed that one was heavily packed as if for a long journey, and the two Bedouins also
had big pack-saddles. He recollected also that when he stared at the caravan one of the camel
drivers, a Sudânese, said to him that those were the children of the Englishmen who before
that had gone to Wâdi Rayân.

"Did those Englishmen return?" asked Pan Tarkowski.

"Yes. They returned yesterday with two slain wolves," answered the station-master; "and I was
astonished that they did not return with the children. But I did not ask the reason as that
was not my affair."

Saying this he left to attend to his duties.

During this narrative Mr. Rawlinson's face became white as paper. Gazing at his friend with
a wild look, he took off his hat, pressed his hand to his forehead, covered with perspiration,
and staggered as if he were about to fall.

"Be a man, Rawlinson!" exclaimed Pan Tarkowski. "Our children are kidnapped. It is necessary
to rescue them."

"Nell! Nell!" repeated the unhappy Englishman.

"Nell and Stas! It was not Stas' fault. Both were enticed by trickery and kidnapped. Who knows
why? Perhaps for a ransom. Chamis undoubtedly is in the plot, and Idris and Gebhr also."

Here he recalled what Fatma had said about both Sudânese belonging to the Dongolese tribe,
in which the Mahdi was born, and that Chadigi, the father of Chamis, came from the same tribe.
At this recollection his heart for a moment became inert in his breast for he understood that
the children were abducted not for a ransom but as an exchange for Smain's family.

"But what will the tribesmen of the ill-omened prophet do with them? They cannot hide them
on the desert or anywhere on the banks of the Nile, for they all would die of hunger and thirst
on the desert, and they certainly would be apprehended on the Nile. Perhaps they will try to
join the Mahdi."

And this thought filled Pan Tarkowski with dismay, but the energetic ex-soldier soon recovered
and began in his mind to review all that happened and at the same time seek means of rescue.

"Fatma," he reasoned, "had no cause to revenge herself either upon us or our children. If they
have been kidnapped it was evidently for the purpose of placing them in the hands of Smain.
In no case does death threaten them. And this is a fortune in misfortune; still a terrible
journey awaits them which might be disastrous for them."

And at once he shared these thoughts with his friend, after which he spoke thus:

"Idris and Gebhr, like savage and foolish men, imagine that followers of the Mahdi are not
far, while Khartûm, which the Mahdi reached, is about one thousand two hundred and forty miles
from here. This journey they must make along the Nile and not keep at a distance from it as
otherwise the camels and people would perish from thirst. Ride at once to Cairo and demand
of the Khedive that despatches be sent to all the military outposts and that a pursuit be organized
right and left along the river. Offer a large reward to the sheiks near the banks for the capture
of the fugitives. In the villages let all be detained who approach for water. In this manner
Idris and Gebhr must fall into the hands of the authorities and we shall recover the children."

Mr. Rawlinson had already recovered his composure.

"I shall go," he said. "Those miscreants forgot that Wolseley's English army, hurrying to Gordon's
relief, is already on the way and will cut them off from the Mahdi. They will not escape. They
cannot escape. I shall send a despatch to our minister in a moment, and afterwards go myself.
What do you intend to do?"

"I shall telegraph for a furlough, and not waiting for an answer, shall follow then trail by
way of the Nile to Nubia, to attend to the pursuit."

"Then we shall meet, as from Cairo I shall do the same."

"Good! And now to work!"

"With God's help!" answered Mr. Rawlinson.

VII

In the meantime the camels swept like a hurricane over the sands glistening in the moonlight.
A deep night fell. The moon, at the beginning as big as a wheel and ruddy, became pale and
rolled on high. The distant desert hills were enveloped with silvery vapors like muslin which,
not veiling their view, transformed them as if into luminous phenomena. From time to time from
beyond the rocks scattered here and there came the piteous whining of jackals.

Another hour passed. Stas held Nell in his arms and supported her, endeavoring in this way
to allay the fatiguing jolts of the mad ride. The little girl began more and more frequently
to ask him why they were speeding so and why they did not see the tents and their papas. Stas
finally determined to tell her the truth, which sooner or later he would have to disclose.

"Nell," he said, "pull off a glove and drop it, unobserved, on the ground."

"Why, Stas?"

And he pressed her to himself and answered with a kind of tenderness unusual to him:

"Do what I tell you."

Nell held Stas with one hand and feared to let him go, but she overcame the difficulty in this
manner: she began to pull the glove with her teeth, each finger separately, and, finally taking
it off entirely, she dropped it on the ground.

"After a time, throw the other," again spoke Stas. "I already have dropped mine, but yours
will be easier to observe for they are bright."

And observing that the little girl gazed at him with an inquiring look, he continued:

"Don't get frightened, Nell. It may be that we will not meet your or my father at all--and
that these foul people have kidnapped us. But don't fear--for if it is so, then pursuers will
follow them. They will overtake them and surely rescue us. I told you to drop the gloves so
that the pursuers may find clews. In the meanwhile we can do nothing, but later I shall contrive
something--Surely, I shall contrive something; only do not fear, and trust me."

But Nell, learning that she should not see her papa and that they are flying somewhere, far
in the desert, began to tremble from fright and cry, clinging at the same time close to Stas
and asking him amid her sobs why they kidnapped them and where they were taking them. He comforted
her as well as he could--almost in the same words with which his father comforted Mr. Rawlinson.
He said that their parents themselves would follow in pursuit and would notify all the garrisons
along the Nile. In the end he assured her that whatever might happen, he would never abandon
her and would always defend her.

But her grief and longing for her father were stronger even than fear; so for a long time she
did not cease to weep--and thus they flew, both sad, on a bright night, over the pale sands
of the desert.

Sorrow and fear not only oppressed Stas' heart, but also shame. He was not indeed to blame
for what had happened, yet he recalled the former boastfulness for which his father so often
had rebuked him. Formerly he was convinced that there was no situation to which he was not
equal; he considered himself a kind of unvanquished swashbuckler, and was ready to challenge
the whole world. Now he understood that he was a small boy, with whom everybody could do as
he pleased, and that he was speeding in spite, of his will on a camel merely because that camel
was driven from behind by a half-savage Sudânese. He felt terribly humiliated and did not see
any way of resisting. He had to admit to himself that he plainly feared those men and the desert,
and what he and Nell might meet.

He promised sincerely not only to her but to himself that he would watch over and defend her
even at the cost of his own life.

Nell, weary with weeping and the mad ride, which had lasted already six hours, finally began
to doze, and at times fell asleep. Stas, knowing that whoever fell from a galloping camel might
be killed on the spot, tied her to himself with a rope which he found on the saddle. But after
some time it seemed to him that the speed of the camels became less rapid, though now they
flew over smooth and soft sands. In the distance could be seen only the shifting hills, while
on the plain began the nocturnal illusions common to the desert. The moon shone in the heaven
more and more palely and in the meantime there appeared before them, creeping low, strange
rosy clouds, entirely transparent, woven only from light. They formed mysteriously and moved
ahead as if pushed by the light breeze. Stas saw how the burnooses of the Bedouins and the
camels became roseate when they rode into that illuminated space, and afterwards the whole
caravan was enveloped in a delicate, rosy luster. At times the clouds assumed an azure hue
and thus it continued until the hills were reached.

Near the hills the speed of the camels slackened yet more. All about could be seen rocks protruding
from sandy knolls or strewn in wild disorder amidst the sand dunes. The ground became stony.
They crossed a few hollows, sown with stone and resembling the dried-up beds of rivers. At
times their road was barred by ravines about which they had to make a detour. The animals began
to step carefully, moving their legs with precision as if in a dance, among the dry and hard
bushes formed by roses of Jericho with which the dunes and rocks were abundantly covered. Time
and again some of the camels would stumble and it was apparent that it was due to them to give
them rest.

Accordingly the Bedouins stopped in a sunken pass, and dismounting from the saddles, proceeded
to untie the packs. Idris and Gebhr followed their example. They began to attend to the camels,
to loosen the saddle-girths, remove the supplies of provisions, and seek flat stones on which
to build a fire. There was no wood or dried dung, which Arabs use, but Chamis, son of Chadigi,
plucked roses of Jericho and built of them a big pile to which he set fire. For some time,
while the Sudânese were engaged with the camels, Stas and Nell and her nurse, old Dinah, found
themselves together, somewhat apart. But Dinah was more frightened than the children and could
not say a word. She only wrapped Nell in a warm plaid and sitting close to her began with a
moan to kiss her little hands. Stas at once asked Chamis the meaning of what had happened,
but he, laughing, only displayed his white teeth, and went to gather more roses of Jericho.
Idris, questioned afterwards, answered with these words: "You will see!" and threatened him
with his finger. When the fire of roses, which smoldered more than blazed, finally glowed they
all surrounded it in a circle, except Gebhr who remained with the camels, and they began to
eat cakes of maize, and dried mutton and goats' meat. The children, famished by the long journey,
also ate, though at the same time Nell's eyes were closed by sleepiness. But in the meantime,
in the faint light of the fire, appeared dark-skinned Gebhr and with glittering eyes he held
up two bright little gloves and asked:

"Whose are these?"

"Mine," answered Nell with a sleepy and tired voice.

"Yours, little viper?" the Sudânese hissed through set teeth. "Then you mark the road so that
your father can know where to pursue us."

Saying this, he struck her with a courbash, a terrible Arabian whip, which cuts even the hide
of a camel. Nell, though she was wrapped in a thick plaid, shrieked from pain and fright, but
Gebhr was unable to strike her a second time, for at that moment Stas leaped like a wildcat,
butted Gebhr's breast with his head, and afterwards clutched him by the throat.

It happened so unexpectedly that the Sudânese fell upon his back and Stas on top of him, and
both began to roll on the ground. The boy was exceptionally strong for his age, nevertheless
Gebhr soon overcame him. He first pulled his hands from his throat, after which he turned him
over with face to the ground and, pressing heavily on his neck with his fist, he began to lash
his back with the courbash.

The shrieks and tears of Nell, who seizing the hand of the savage at the same time begged him
"to forgive" Stas, would not have availed if Idris had not unexpectedly come to the boy's assistance.
He was older than Gebhr and from the beginning of the flight from Gharak el-Sultani all complied
with his orders. Now he snatched the courbash from his brother's hand and, pushing him away,
exclaimed:

"Away, you fool!"

"I'll flog that scorpion!" answered Gebhr, gnashing his teeth.

But at this, Idris seized his cloak at the breast and gazing into his eyes began to say in
a threatening though quiet voice:

"The noble* [* All relatives of the Mahdi were termed "noble."]  Fatma forbade us to do any
harm to those children, for they interceded for her--"

"I'll flog him!" iterated Gebhr.

"And I tell you that you shall not raise the courbash at either of them. If you do, for every
blow, I shall give you ten."

And he began to shake him like a bough of a palm, after which he thus continued:

"Those children are the property of Smain and if either of them does not reach him alive, the
Mahdi himself (May God prolong his days infinitely!) would command you to be hung. Do you understand,
you fool?"

The name of the Mahdi created such a great impression upon all his believers that Gebhr drooped
his head at once and began to repeat as if with fear:

"Allah akbar! Allah akbar!"* [* This cry means, "God is great"; but Arabs utter it in moments
of fear, summoning aid.]

Stas rose, panting and whipped, but felt that if his father could have seen and heard him at
that moment he would have been proud of him, for he had not only leaped to save Nell, without
thinking, but now, though the blows of the courbash burnt him like fire, he did not think of
his own pain but instead began to console and ask the little girl whether the blow had injured her.

And afterwards he said:

"Whatever I got, I got, but he will never attack you. Oh, if I only had some weapon!"

The little woman entwined his neck with her arms and dampening his cheeks with tears began
to assure him that it did not pain her very much and that she was crying not from pain but
from sorrow for him. At this Stas put his lips to her ear and whispered:

"Nell, I swear that, not because he whipped me, but because he struck you, I shall not forgive
him." With that the incident closed.

After a certain time Gebhr and Idris, becoming reconciled, spread out their cloaks upon the
ground and lay upon them, and Chamis soon followed their example. The Bedouins poured out durra
for the camels, after which, having mounted two unengaged camels, they rode in the direction
of the Nile. Nell, supporting her head on old Dinah's knee, fell asleep. The fire was dying
out and soon could be heard only the grinding of the durra in the camels' teeth. On high rolled
small clouds which at times veiled the moon, but the night was clear. Beyond the rocks resounded
the mournful whining of jackals.

After two hours the Bedouins returned with the camels bearing leather bags filled with water.
Having fed the fire, they sat on the sand and commenced to eat. Their arrival awoke Stas, who
previously had been dozing, as well as Chamis, son of Chadigi, and the two Sudânese. Then at
the camp-fire began the following conversation:

"Can we start?" Idris asked.

"No, because we must rest;--we and our camels."

"Did any one see you?"

"Nobody. We reached the river between two villages. In the distance dogs barked."

"It will be necessary always to go for water at midnight and draw it at deserted places. Only
let us get past the first 'challa' (cataract); beyond that the villages are farther apart and
they are more friendly to the prophet. A pursuing party will undoubtedly follow us."

At this Chamis turned over, with his back up, and resting his face on his hands said:

"The Mehendes will first wait for the children in El-Fachn during the whole night and until
the following train; later they will go to Fayûm and from there to Gharak. Only there will
they understand what has happened and then they will have to return to Medinet to send words
flying over the copper wire to cities on the Nile and to the camel-corps which will pursue
us. All that will take at least three days. Therefore we do not need to tire our camels and
can peacefully 'drink smoke' from pipe-stems."

Saying this, he pulled out a sprig of a rose of Jericho and lit his pipe with it, while Idris
began, according to the Arabian habit, to smack his lips with satisfaction.

"You arranged it well, son of Chadigi," he said, "but it is necessary for us to take advantage
of the time and to drive during those three days and nights as far as possible southward. I
shall breathe freely only when we shall cross the desert between the Nile and Kharga (a great
oasis west of the Nile). God grant that the camels hold out."

"They will hold out," declared one of the Bedouins.

"People also say," interposed Chamis, "that the army of the Mahdi--may God prolong his life--has
already reached Assuan."

Here Stas, who did not lose a word of this conversation and remembered also what Idris had
said to Gebhr, rose and said:

"The army of the Mahdi is below Khartûm."

"La! La! (no! no!)" Chamis contradicted.

"Don't pay any attention to his words," Stas replied, "for he not only has a dark skin but
also a dark brain. Although you bought fresh camels every three days and rushed as you have
done this day, you would not reach Khartûm for a month. And perhaps you do not know that an
English, not an Egyptian, army bars the road to you."

These words created a certain impression and Stas, observing this, continued:

"Before you find yourselves between the Nile and the great oasis all the roads on the desert
will be picketed by a line of army sentinels. Words over the copper wire speed quicker than
camels. How will you be able to slip through?"

"The desert is wide," answered one of the Bedouins.

"But you must keep close to the Nile."

"We can cross over, and when they seek us on this side we shall be on the other."

"Words speeding over the copper wire will reach cities and villages on both banks of the river."

"The Mahdi will send us an angel, who will place a finger on the eyes of the Englishmen and
the Turks (Egyptians) and will screen us with his wings."

"Idris," said Stas, "I do not address Chamis whose head is like an empty gourd, nor Gebhr who
is a vile jackal, but you. I already know that you want to carry us to the Mahdi and deliver
us to Smain. But if you are doing this for money, then know that the father of this little
'bint' (girl) is richer than all the Sudânese put together."

"And what of it?" interrupted Idris.

"What of it? Return voluntarily and the great Mehendi will not spare money for you, nor will
my father either."

"But they will give us up to the Government, which will order us to be hung."

"No, Idris. You undoubtedly will hang, but only in case they capture you in the flight; and
that surely will happen. But if you return, no punishment will be meted out to you, and besides
you will be wealthy to the end of your life. You know that the white people of Europe always
keep their word. Now I give you the word for both Mehendes that it will be as I say."

And Stas in reality was confident that his father and Mr. Rawlinson would prefer to fulfil
the promise made by him than expose both of them, and especially Nell, to the terrible journey
and yet more terrible life among the savage and maddened hordes of the Mahdi.

So with palpitating heart, he waited for the reply of Idris who was plunged in silence and
only after a long interval said:

"You say that the father of the little 'bint' and yours will give us a great deal of money?"

"Yes."

"But can all their money open for us the gates of paradise which only the blessing of the Mahdi
can do?"

"Bismillah!" shouted both Bedouins together with Chamis and Gebhr.

Stas at once lost all hope, for he knew that howsoever much the people in the East are greedy
and venal, nevertheless when a true Mohammedan views any matter from the standpoint of faith,
there are not any treasures in the world with which he can be tempted.

Idris, encouraged by the shouts, continued, and evidently not for the purpose of replying to
Stas, but with a view of gaining greater esteem and praise from his companions.

"We have the good fortune not only to belong to that tribe which gave the holy prophet, but
the noble Fatma and her children are his relatives and the great Mahdi loves them. If we deliver
you and the little 'bint' to him, he will exchange you for Fatma and her sons and will bless
us. Know that even the water, in which every morning according to the precepts of the Koran
he makes his ablutions, heals the sick and eliminates sins; and think what his blessing can
accomplish!"

"Bismillah!" reiterated the Sudânese and Bedouins.

But Stas, clutching at the last plank for help, said:

"Then take me and let the Bedouins return with the little 'bint' For me they will surrender
Fatma and her sons."

"It is yet more certain that they will surrender her for you two."

At this the boy addressed Chamis:

"Your father shall answer for your conduct."

"My father is already in the desert, on his way to the prophet," retorted Chamis.

"Then they will capture and hang him."

Here, however, Idris deemed it proper to give encouragement to his companions.

"Those vultures," he said, "which will pick the flesh from our bones may not yet be hatched.
We know what threatens us, but we are not children, and we know the desert of old. These men
(here he pointed at the Bedouins) were many times in Berber and are acquainted with roads over
which only gazelles roam. There nobody will find us and nobody will seek us. We must indeed
turn for water to the Bahr Yûsuf and later to the Nile, but will do that in the night. Besides,
do you think that on the river there are no secret friends of the Mahdi? And I tell you that
the farther south we go the more of them we will find. There, tribes and their sheiks are only
waiting for the favorable moment to seize the sword in defense of the true faith. These alone
will supply water, food, and camels, and lead astray the pursuit. In truth, we know that it
is far to the Mahdi, but we know also that every day brings us nearer to the sheep's hide on
which the holy prophet kneels to pray."

"Bismillah!" shouted his companions for the third tune.

It was apparent that Idris' importance grew among them considerably. Stas understood that all
was lost; so, desiring at least to protect Nell from the malice of the Sudânese, he said:

"After six hours the little lady reached here barely alive. How can you think that she can
endure such a journey? If she should die, I also will die, and then with what will you come
to the Mahdi?"

Now Idris could not find an answer. Stas, perceiving this, continued thus:

"And how will the Mahdi and Smain receive you when they learn that for your folly Fatma and
her children must pay with their lives?"

But the Sudânese had recovered himself and replied:

"I saw how you grasped Gebhr's throat. By Allah! you are a lion's whelp and will not die and she--"

Here he gazed at the little head of the sleeping girl resting on the knees of old Dinah and
finished in a kind of strangely gentle voice:

"For her we will weave on the camel's hump a nest, as for a bird, that she may not at all feel
fatigue and that she may sleep on the road as peacefully as she is sleeping now."

Saying this he walked towards the camels and with the Bedouins began to make a seat for the
little girl on the back of the best dromedary. At this they chattered a great deal and quarrelled
among themselves but finally, with the aid of ropes, shaggy coverlets, and short bamboo poles
they made something in the shape of a deep, immovable basket in which Nell could sit or lie
down, but from which she could not fall. Above this seat, so broad that Dinah also could be
accommodated in it, they stretched a linen awning.

"You see," said Idris to Stas, "quail's eggs could not crack in those housings. The old woman
will ride with the little lady to serve her day and night.--You will sit with me, but can ride
near her and watch over her."

Stas was glad that he had secured even this much. Pondering over the situation, he came to
the conclusion that in all probability they would be captured before they reached the first
cataract, and this thought gave him hope. In the meantime he wanted above all things to sleep;
so he promised himself that he would tie himself with some kind of rope to the saddle, and,
as he would not have to hold Nell, he could take a nap for a few hours.

The night already became paler and the jackals ceased their whining amid the passes. The caravan
was to start immediately, but the Sudânese, observing the dawn, went to a rock, a few paces
away, and there, conformably with the precepts of the Koran, began their morning ablutions,
using, however, sand instead of water, which they desired to save. Afterwards resounded voices,
saying the "soubhg," or morning prayer. Amidst the deep silence plainly could be heard their
words: "In the name of the compassionate and merciful God. Glory to the Lord, the sovereign
of the world, compassionate and merciful on the day of judgment. Thee we worship and profess.
Thee we implore for aid. Lead us over the road of those to whom thou dost not spare benefactions
and grace and not over the paths of sinners who have incurred Thy wrath and who err. Amen."

And Stas, hearing these voices, raised his eyes upwards and in that distant region, amidst
tawny, gloomy sands, began the prayer:

"We fly to Thy patronage, O Holy Mother of God."

VIII

The night faded. The men already had the saddles on the camels, when suddenly they observed
a desert wolf, which, with tail curled beneath it, rushed across the pass, about a hundred
paces from the caravan, and reaching the opposite table-land, dashed ahead showing signs of
fright as if it fled before some enemy. On the Egyptian deserts there are no wild animals before
which wolves could feel any fear and for that reason this sight greatly alarmed the Sudânese
Arabs. What could this be? Was the pursuing party already approaching? One of the Bedouins
quickly climbed on a rock, but he had barely glanced when he slipped down yet more quickly.

"By the prophet!" he exclaimed, confused and frightened, "a lion is rushing towards us and
is already close by!"

And then from beyond the rocks came a bass "wow" after which Stas and Nell shouted together:

"Saba! Saba!"

As in the Arabian language this means a lion, the Bedouins became frightened yet more, but
Chamis burst out laughing and said:

"I know that lion."

Saying this he whistled drawlingly and in a moment the gigantic mastiff dashed among the camels.
Seeing the children he leaped towards them. From joy he overturned Nell who extended her hands
to him; he reared himself on Stas; afterwards whining and barking he ran round both a few times,
again overturned Nell, again reared himself on Stas, and finally lying down at their feet began
to pant.

His sides were sunken, from his lolling tongue fell clots of froth; nevertheless he wagged
his tail and raised his eyes full of love at Nell as if he wanted to say: "Your father ordered
me to watch over you, so here I am."

The children sat close to him, one on each side, and began to pat him. The two Bedouins, who
never before saw a creature like this, gazed at him with astonishment, repeating: "On Allah!
o kelb kebir!" ("By God! that is a big dog!") while he for some time lay quietly. Afterwards
he raised his head, inhaled the air through his black nose resembling a big truffle, scented,
and jumped towards the extinct camp-fire, near which lay the remnants of food.

In the same moment goat's and lamb's bones began to crack and crumble as straw in his powerful
teeth. After eight people, counting old Dinah and Nell, there was enough for such "kelb kebir."

But the Sudânese were worried by his arrival and the two camel drivers, calling Chamis to one
side, began to speak to him with uneasiness and even with indignation.

"Iblis* [* Iblis, one of the names of the devil in the Koran.--Translator's note.] brought
that dog here," exclaimed Gebhr, "but in what manner did he find the children, since they came
to Gharak by rail?"

"Surely by the camel tracks," answered Chamis.

"It happened badly. Everybody who sees him with us will remember our caravan and will point
out where we went. We positively must get rid of him."

"But how?" asked Chamis.

"We have a rifle, so take it and shoot him in the head."

In a case of urgency, Chamis might be able, for Stas had several times opened and closed his
weapon before him, but he was sorry for the dog of whom he was fond, having taken care of him
before the arrival of the children at Medinet. He knew perfectly that the Sudânese had no idea
how to handle a weapon of the latest model and would be at a loss what to do with it.

"If you don't know how," he said, with a crafty smile, "that little 'nouzrani' (Christian)
could kill the dog, but that rifle can fire several times in succession; so I do not advise
you to put it in his hands."

"God forbid!" replied Idris; "he would shoot us like quails."

"We have knives," observed Gebhr.

"Try it, but remember that you have a throat which the dog will pull to pieces before you stab
him."

"Then what is to be done?"

Chamis shrugged his shoulder.

"Why do you want to kill the dog? If you should afterwards bury him in the sand, the hyenas
will dig him out; the pursuers will find his bones and will know that we did not cross the
Nile but made off in this direction. Let him follow us. As often as the Bedouins go for water
and we hide in the passes, you may be sure that the dog will stay with the children. Allah!
It is better that he came now, for otherwise he would lead the pursuing party on our tracks
as far as Berber. You do not need to feed him, for if our leavings are not sufficient it will
not be difficult for him to get a hyena or jackal. Leave him in peace, I tell you, and do not
lose any time in idle talk."

"Perhaps you are right," said Idris.

"If I am right, then I will give him water, so that he shall not run to the Nile and show himself
in the villages."

In this manner was decided the fate of Saba who, having somewhat rested himself and eaten his
fill, in the twinkling of an eye lapped up a bowl of water and started with renewed strength
after the caravan.

They now rode on high, level ground, on which the wind wrinkled the sand and from which could
be seen on both sides the immense expanse of the desert. Heaven assumed the tint of a pearl
shell. Light little clouds gathered in the east and changed like opals, after which they suddenly
became dyed with gold. One ray darted, afterwards another, and the sun--as is usual in southern
countries, in which there are scarcely any twilight and dawn--did not ascend, but burst from
behind the clouds like a pillar of fire and flooded the horizon with a bright light. It enlivened
heaven, it enlivened the earth, and the immeasurable sandy expanse was unveiled to the eyes of men.

"We must hasten," said Idris, "for here we can be seen from a distance."

Accordingly the rested and satiated camels sped on with the celerity of gazelles. Saba remained
behind, but there was no fear that he would get lost and not appear at the first short halt
for refreshments. The dromedary on which Idris rode with Stas ran close to the one on which
Nell was mounted, so that the children could easily converse with each other. The seat which
the Sudânese had made appeared splendid and the little girl really looked like a bird in a
nest. She could not fall, even sleeping, and the ride fatigued her far less than during the
night. The bright daylight gave courage to both children. In Stas' heart the hope entered that
since Saba had overtaken them, the pursuers might do the same. This hope he at once shared
with Nell, who smiled at him for the first time since their abduction.

"When will they overtake us?" she asked in French in order that Idris should not understand them.

"I do not know. It may be to-day; perhaps to-morrow; perhaps after two or three days."

"But we will not ride back on camels?"

"No. We will ride only as far as the Nile, and afterwards go by way of the Nile to El-Wasta."

"That is good! oh, good!"

Poor Nell, who had previously loved these rides, had evidently now had enough of them.

"By way of the Nile--to El-Wasta and to papa!" she began to repeat in a sleepy voice.

As at the previous stop she did not enjoy a full sound sleep, she now fell into that deep sleep
which after fatigue comes towards morning. In the meantime the Bedouins drove the camels without
a rest and Stas observed that they were making their way towards the interior of the desert.

So, desiring to shake Idris' confidence that he would be able to elude the pursuit, and at
the same time to show him that he himself relied upon it as a dead certainty, he said:

"You are driving away from the Nile and from Bahr Yûsuf, but that won't help you, for of course
they will not seek you on the banks where villages lie side by side, but in the interior of
the desert."

And Idris asked:

"How do you know that we are driving away from the Nile, since the banks cannot be seen from here?"

"Because the sun, which is in the eastern part of heaven, is warming our backs; that means
we have turned to the west."

"You are a wise boy," said Idris with esteem.

After a while he added:

"But the pursuing party will not overtake us nor will you escape."

"No," answered Stas, "I shall not escape--unless with her."

And he pointed to the sleeping girl.

Until noon they sped almost without pausing for breath, but when the sun rose high in the sky
and began to scorch, the camels, which by nature perspire but little, were covered with sweat,
and their pace slackened considerably. The caravan again was surrounded by rocks and dunes.
The ravines, which during the rainy season are changed into channels of streams, or so-called
"khors," came to view more and more frequently. The Bedouins finally halted in one of them
which was entirely concealed amid the rocks. But they had barely dismounted from the camels
when they raised a cry and dashed ahead, bending over every little while and throwing stones
ahead of them. Stas, who had not yet alighted from the saddle, beheld a strange sight. From
among the dry bushes overgrowing the bed of the "khor," a big snake emerged and, gliding sinuously
with the rapidity of lightning among the fragments of rocks, escaped to some hiding-place known
to itself. The Bedouins chased it furiously and Gebhr rushed to their aid with a knife. But
owing to the unevenness of the ground it was difficult either to hit the snake with a stone
or to pin it with a knife. Soon all three returned with terror visible on their faces.

And the cries, customary with Arabs, resounded:

"Allah!"

"Bismillah!"

"Mashallah!"

Afterwards both Sudânese began to look with a kind of strange and, at the same time, searching
and inquiring gaze at Stas who could not understand what was the matter.

In the meantime Nell also dismounted from her camel, and though she was less tired than during
the night, Stas spread for her a saddle-cloth in the shade on a level spot and told her to
lie down, in order, as he said, that she might straighten out her little feet. The Arabs prepared
their noon meal, which consisted of biscuits and dates, together with a gulp of water. The
camels were not watered for they had drank during the night. The faces of Idris, Gebhr and
the Bedouins were still dejected, and the stop was made in silence. Finally Idris called Stas
aside, and began to question him with a countenance at once mysterious and perturbed.

"Did you see the snake?"

"I did."

"Did you conjure it to appear before us?"

"No."

"Some ill-luck awaits us as those fools did not succeed in killing it."

"The gallows awaits you."

"Be silent! Is your father a sorcerer?"

"He is," answered Stas without any hesitation, for he understood in a moment that those savage
and superstitious men regarded the appearance of a reptile as an evil omen and an announcement
that the flight would not succeed.

"So then your father sent it to us," answered Idris, "but he ought to understand that we can
avenge ourselves for his charms upon you."

"You will not do anything to me as the sons of Fatma would have to suffer for any injury to me."

"And you already understand this? But remember that if it was not for me, your blood would
have flowed under Gebhr's courbash--yours and that little 'bint's' also."

"I therefore shall intercede for you only; but Gebhr shall swing on the rope."

At this Idris gazed at him for a while as if with astonishment and said:

"Our lives are not yet in your hands and you already talk to us as our lord--"

After a while he added:

"You are a strange 'uled' (boy), and such a one I have not yet seen. Thus far I have been kind
to you, but take heed and do not threaten."

"God punishes treachery," answered Stas.

It was apparent, however, that the assurance with which the boy spoke in connection with the
evil omen in the form of a snake which succeeded in escaping, disquieted Idris in a high degree.
Having already mounted the camel he repeated several times: "Yes, I was kind to you," as if
in any event he wished to impress this upon Stas' memory, and afterwards he began to finger
the beads of a rosary made of the shells of "dum" nuts, and pray.

About two o'clock, though it was in the winter season, the heat became unusual. In the sky
there was not a cloudlet, but the horizon's border was disfigured.

Above the caravan hovered a few vultures whose widely outstretched wings cast moving, black
shadows on the tawny sands. In the heated air could be smelt an odor like the gas exhaled from
burning charcoal. The camels, not ceasing to run, began to grunt strangely. One of the Bedouins
approached Idris.

"Some evil is brewing?"

"What, do you think?" asked the Sudânese.

"Wicked spirits awoke the wind slumbering on the western desert, and he rose from the sands
and is rushing upon us."

Idris raised himself on the saddle, gazed into the distance, and replied:

"That is so. He is coming from the west and south but is not as furious as a Khamsin."* [*
A southwest wind which blows in the spring.]

"Three years ago near Abu-Hamed he buried a whole caravan and did not sweep the sand away until
last winter. Ualla! He may have enough strength to stuff the nostrils of the camels and dry
up the water in the bags."

"It is necessary that we speed so that he strike us only with a wing."

"We are flying in his eyes and are not able to avoid him."

"The quicker he comes, the quicker he will pass away."

Saying this, Idris struck his camel with a courbash and his example was followed by the others.
For some time could be heard the dull blows of the thick whips, resembling the clapping of
hands, and the cries of "Yalla." On the southwest the horizon, previously whitish, darkened.
The heat continued and the sun scorched the heads of the riders. The vultures soared very high
evidently, for their shadows grew smaller and smaller, and they finally vanished entirely.

It became sultry.

The Arabs yelled at the camels until their throats became parched, after which they were silent
and a funereal quiet ensued, interrupted only by the groaning of the animals.

Two very small foxes* [* An animal smaller than our foxes, called "fennec."] with big ears
stole by the caravan, running in an opposite direction.

The same Bedouin, who had previously conversed with Idris, spoke out again in a strange and
as if not his own voice:

"This will not be a usual wind. Evil charms are pursuing us. The snake is to blame for all--"

"I know," answered Idris.

"Look! the air quivers. That does not happen in winter."

In fact the heated air began to quiver, and in consequence of an illusion of the eyes it seemed
to the riders that the sands quivered. The Bedouin took his sweaty cowl from his head and said:

"The heart of the desert beats with terror."

And at this the other Bedouin, riding in the lead as a guide of the camels, turned around and
began to shout:

"He is already coming!--He is coming!"

And in truth the wind came up. In the distance appeared as it were dark clouds which in their
eyes grew higher and higher and approached the caravan. The nearest waves of air all around
became agitated and sudden gusts of wind began to spin the sand. Here and there funnels were
formed as if someone had drilled the surface of the desert with a cane. At places rose swift
whirlpools resembling pillars, thin at the bottom and outspread on top like plumes of feathers.
All this lasted but the twinkling of an eye. The cloud which the camel-guide first espied came
flying towards them with an inconceivable velocity. It struck the people and beasts like the
wing of a gigantic bird. In one moment the eyes and mouths of the riders were filled with sand.
Clouds of dust hid the sky, hid the sun, and the earth became dusky. The men began to lose
sight of one another and even the nearest camel appeared indistinctly as if in a fog. Not the
rustle--for on the desert there are no trees--but the roar of the whirlwind drowned the calls
of the guide and the bellowing of the animals. In the atmosphere could be smelt an odor such
as coal smoke gives. The camels stood still and, turning away from the wind, they stretched
their long necks downward so that their nostrils almost touched the sand.

The Sudânese, however, did not wish to allow a stop, as caravans which halt during a hurricane
are often buried in sand. At such times it is best to speed with the whirlwind, but Idris and
Gebhr could not do this, for in thus doing they would return to Fayûm from where they expected
a pursuit. So when the first gale passed they again drove the camels.

A momentary stillness ensued but the ruddy dusk dissipated very slowly for the sun could not
pierce through the clouds of dust suspended in the air. The thicker and heavier particles of
sand began to fall. Sand filled all the cracks and punctures in the saddles and clung to the
folds of the clothes. The people with each breath inhaled dust which irritated their lungs
and grated their teeth.

Besides, the whirlwind might break out again and hide the whole world. It occurred to Stas
that if at the time of such darkness he was with Nell on the same camel, he might turn around
and escape with the wind northward. Who knows whether they would be observed amidst the dusk
and confusion of the elements, and, if they succeeded in reaching any village on Bahr Yûsuf
near the Nile, Idris and Gebhr would not dare to pursue them for they would at once fall into
the hands of the local "police."

Stas, weighing all this, jostled Idris' shoulder and said:

"Give me the gourd with water."

Idris did not refuse for howsoever much that morning they had turned into the interior of the
desert and quite far from the river, they had enough of water, and the camels drank copiously
during the time of their night stop. Besides this, as a man acquainted with the desert, he
knew that after a hurricane, rain usually follows and the dried-up "khors" change temporarily
into streams.

Stas in reality was thirsty, so he took a good drink, after which, not returning the gourd,
he again jostled Idris' arm.

"Halt the caravan."

"Why?" asked the Sudânese.

"Because I want to sit on the camel with the little 'bint' and give her water."

"Dinah has a bigger gourd than mine."

"But she is greedy and surely has emptied it. A great deal of sand must have fallen into her
saddle which you made like a basket. Dinah will be helpless."

"The wind will break out after a while and will refill it."

"That is the more reason why she will require help."

Idris lashed the camel with his whip and for a while they rode in silence.

"Why don't you answer?" Stas asked.

"Because I am considering whether it would be better to tie you to the saddle or tie your hands
behind."

"You have become insane."

"No. I have guessed what you intended to do."

"The pursuers will overtake us anyway; so I would not have to do it."

"The desert is in the hands of God."

They became silent again. The thicker sand fell entirely; there remained in the air a subtile
red dust, something of the nature of pollen, through which the sun shone like a copper plate.
But already they could see ahead. Before the caravan stretched level ground at the borders
of which the keen eyes of the Arabs again espied a cloud. It was higher than the previous one
and, besides this, there shot from it what seemed like pillars, or gigantic chimneys expanding
at the top. At this sight the hearts of the Arabs and Bedouins quailed for they recognized
the great sandy whirlpools. Idris raised his hands and drawing his palms towards his ears began
to prostrate himself to the approaching whirlwind. His faith in one God evidently did not prevent
his worship and fear of others for Stas distinctly heard him say:

"Lord! We are thy children; therefore do not devour us."

But the "lord" just dashed at them and assailed the camels with a force so terrible that they
almost fell to the ground. The animals now formed a compact pack with heads turned to the center
towards each other. Whole masses of sand were stirred. The caravan was enveloped by a dusk
deeper than before and in that dusk there flew beside the riders dark and indistinct objects,
as though gigantic birds or camels were dispersed with the hurricane. Fear seized the Arabs,
to whom it seemed that these were the spirits of animals and men who had perished under the
sands. Amid the roar and howling could be heard strange voices similar to sobs, to laughter,
to cries for help. But these were delusions. The caravan was threatened by real danger, a hundredfold
greater. The Sudânese well knew that if any one of the great whirlpools, forming incessantly
in the bosom of the hurricane, should catch them in its whirls, it would hurl the riders to
the ground and disperse the camels, and if it should break and fall upon them then in the twinkling
of an eye an immense sandy mound would cover them in which they would remain until the next
hurricane, blowing away the sand, should reveal their skeletons.

Stas' head swam, his lungs seemed choked, and the sand blinded him. But at times it seemed
to him that he heard Nell crying and calling; so he thought only of her. Taking advantage of
the fact that the camels stood in a close pack and that Idris might not observe him, he determined
to creep over quietly to the girl's camel, not for the purpose of escaping, but to give her
assistance and encouragement. But he had barely extended his limbs from under him and stretched
out his hands to grasp the edge of Nell's saddle, when the giant hand of Idris grabbed him.
The Sudânese snatched him like a feather, laid him before him and began to tie him with a palm
rope, and after binding his hands, placed him across the saddle. Stas pressed his teeth and
resisted as well as he could, but in vain. Having a parched throat and a mouth filled with
sand he could not convince Idris that he desired only to go to the girl's assistance and did
not want to escape.

After a while, however, feeling that he was suffocating, he began to shout in a stifled voice:

"Save the little 'bint'! Save the little 'bint'!"

But the Arabs preferred to think of their own lives. The blasts became so terrible that they
could not sit on the camels nor could the camels stand in their places. The two Bedouins with
Chamis and Gebhr leaped to the ground, in order to hold the animals by cords attached to the
mouthpieces under their lower jaws. Idris, shoving Stas to the rear of the saddle, did the
same. The animals spread out their legs as widely as possible in order to resist the furious
whirlwind, but they lacked strength, and the caravan, scourged by gravel which cut like hundreds
of whips and the sand which pricked like pins, began now slowly, then hurriedly, to turn about
and retreat under the pressure. At times the whirlwind tore holes under their feet, then again
the sand and gravel bounding from the sides of the camels would form, in the twinkling of an
eye, mounds reaching to their knees and higher. In this manner hour passed after hour. The
danger became more and more terrible. Idris finally understood that the only salvation was
to remount the camels and fly with the whirlwind. But this would be returning in the direction
of Fayûm, where Egyptian Courts and the gallows were waiting for them.

"Ha! it cannot be helped," thought Idris. "The hurricane will also stop the pursuit and when
it ceases, we will again proceed southward."

And he began to shout that they should resume their seats on the camels.

But at this moment something happened which entirely changed the situation.

Suddenly, the dusky, almost black, clouds of sand were illumined with a livid light. The darkness
then became still deeper, but at the same time there arose, slumbering on high and awakened
by the whirlwind, thunder; it began to roll between the Arabian and Libyan deserts,--powerful,
threatening, one might say, angry. It seemed as if from the heavens, mountains and rocks were
tumbling down. The deafening peal intensified, grew, shook the world, began to roam all over
the whole horizon; in places it burst with a force as terrible as if the shattered vault of
heaven had fallen upon earth and afterwards it again rolled with a hollow, continual rumble;
again it burst forth, again broke, it blinded with lightning, and struck with thunderbolts,
descended, rose, and pealed continuously.* [* The author heard in the vicinity of Aden thunder
which lasted without intermission for half an hour. See "Letters from Africa."]

The wind subsided as if overawed, and when after a long time somewhere in the immeasurable
distance the chain-bolt of heaven rattled, a deadly stillness followed the thunder.

But after a while in that silence the voice of the guide resounded.
   "God is above the whirlwind and the storm. We are saved."

They started. But they were enveloped by a night so impenetrable that though the camels ran
close together, the men could not see each other and had to shout aloud every little while
in order not to lose one another. From time to time glaring lightning, livid or red, illuminated
the sandy expanse, but afterwards fell a darkness so thick as to be almost palpable. Notwithstanding
the hope, which the voice of the guide poured into the hearts of the Sudânese, uneasiness did
not yet leave them, because they moved blindly, not knowing in truth in which direction they
were going;--whether they were moving around in a circle or were returning northward. The animals
stumbled against each other every little while and could not run swiftly, and besides they
panted strangely, and so loudly that it seemed to the riders that the whole desert panted from
fear. Finally fell the first drops of rain, which almost always follows a hurricane, and at
the same time the voice of the guide broke out amidst the darkness:

"Khor!"

They were above a ravine. The camels paused at the brink; after which they began to step carefully
towards the bottom.

IX

The khor was wide, covered on the bottom with stones among which grew dwarfish, thorny shrubs.
A high rock full of crevices and fissures formed its southern wall. The Arabs discerned all
this by the light of quiet but more and more frequent lightning flashes. Soon they also discovered
in the rocky wall a kind of shallow cave or, rather, a broad niche, in which people could easily
be harbored and, in case of a great downpour, could find shelter. The camels also could be
comfortably lodged upon a slight elevation close by the niche. The Bedouins and two Sudânese
removed from them their burdens and saddles, so that they might rest well, and Chamis, son
of Chadigi, occupied himself in the meantime with pulling thorny shrubs for a fire. Big single
drops fell continually but the downpour began only when the party lay down to sleep. At first
it was like strings of water, afterwards ropes, and in the end it seemed as if whole rivers
were flowing from invisible clouds. Such rains, which occur only once in several years, swell,
even in winter time, the water of the canals and the Nile, and in Aden fill immense cisterns,
without which the city could not exist at all. Stas never in his life had seen anything like
it. At the bottom of the khor the stream began to rumble; the entrance to the niche was veiled
as if by a curtain of water; around could be heard only splashing and spluttering.

The camels stood on an elevation and the downpour at most would give them a bath; nevertheless
the Arabs peered out every little while to see if any danger threatened the animals. To the
others it was agreeable to sit in the cave, safe from danger, by the bright fire of brushwood,
which was not yet soaked. On their faces joy was depicted. Idris, who immediately after their
arrival had untied Stas' hands so that he could eat, now turned to him and smiling contemptuously
said:

"The Mahdi is greater than all white sorcerers. He subdued the hurricane and sent rain."

Stas did not reply for he was occupied with Nell, who was barely alive. First he shook the
sand from her hair, afterwards directed old Dinah to unpack the things which she, in the belief
that the children were going to their parents, brought with her from Fayûm. He took a towel,
wet it, and wiped the little girl's eyes and face with it. Dinah could not do this as seeing
but poorly with one eye only, she lost her sight almost entirely during the hurricane and washing
her heated eyelids did not bring her any relief. Nell submitted passively to all of Stas' efforts;
she only gazed at him like an exhausted bird, and only when he removed her shoes to spill out
the sand and afterwards when he smoothed out the saddle-cloths did she throw her arms around
his neck.

His heart overflowed with great pity. He felt that he was a guardian, an older brother, and
at that time Nell's only protector, and he felt at the same time that he loved this little
sister immensely, far more than ever before. He loved her indeed in Port Said, but he regarded
her as a "baby"; so, for instance, it never even occurred to him to kiss her hand in bidding
her good night. If any one had suggested such an idea to him he would have thought that a bachelor,
who had finished his thirteenth year, could not without derogation to his dignity and age do
anything like that. But, at present, a common distress awoke in him dormant tenderness; so
he kissed not one but both hands of the little girl.

Lying down, he continued to think of her and determined to perform some extraordinary deed
to snatch her from captivity. He was prepared for everything, even for wounds and death; only
with this little reservation secreted in his heart, that the wounds should not be too painful,
and that the death should not be an inevitable and real death, as in such case he could not
witness the happiness of Nell when liberated. Afterwards he began to ponder upon the most heroic
manner of saving her, but his thoughts became confused. For a while it seemed to him that whole
clouds of sand were burying him; afterwards that all the camels were piling on his head,--and
he fell asleep.

The Arabs, exhausted by the battle with the hurricane, after attending to the camels, also
fell into a sound sleep. The fire became extinct and a dusk prevailed in the niche. Soon the
snores of the men resounded, and from outside came the splash of the downpour and the roar
of the waters clashing over the stones on the bottom of the khor. In this manner the night passed.

But before dawn Stas was awakened from a heavy sleep by a feeling of cold. It appeared that
water which accumulated in the fissures on the top of the rock slowly passed through some cleft
in the vault of the cave and began finally to trickle onto his head. The boy sat up on the
saddle-cloth and for some time struggled with sleep; he did not realize where he was and what
had happened to him.

After a while, however, consciousness returned to him.

"Aha!" he thought, "yesterday there was a hurricane and we are kidnapped, and this is a cave
in which we sought shelter from the rain."

And he began to gaze around. At first he observed with astonishment that the rain had passed
away and that it was not at all dark in the cave, as it was illuminated by the moon which was
about to set. In its pale beams could be seen the whole interior of that wide but shallow niche.
Stas saw distinctly the Arabs lying beside each other, and under the other wall of the cave
the white dress of Nell who was sleeping close to Dinah.

And again great tenderness possessed his heart.

"Sleep, Nell--sleep," he said to himself; "but I do not sleep, and must save her."

After this, glancing at the Arabs, he added in his soul:

"Ah! I do want to have all these rogues--"

Suddenly he trembled.

His gaze fell upon the leather case containing the short rifle presented to him as a Christmas
gift, and the cartridge boxes lying between him and Chamis, so near that it would suffice for
him to stretch out his hand.

And his heart began to beat like a hammer. If he could secure the rifle and boxes he would
certainly be the master of the situation. It would be enough in that case to slip noiselessly
out of the niche, hide about fifty paces away, among the rocks, and from there watch the exit
of the Sudânese and Bedouins. He thought that if they awakened and observed his absence they
would rush out of the cave together but at that time he could with two bullets shoot down the
first two and, before the others could reach him, the rifle could be reloaded. Chamis would
remain but he could take care of him.

Here he pictured to himself four corpses lying in a pool of blood, and fright and horror seized
his breast. To kill four men! Indeed they were knaves, but even so it was a horrifying affair.
He recollected that at one time he saw a laborer--a fellah--killed by the crank of a steam
dredge, and what a horrible impression his mortal remains, quivering in a red puddle, made
upon him! He shuddered at the recollection. And now four would be necessary! four! The sin
and the horror! No, no, he was incapable of that.

He began to struggle with his thoughts. For himself, he would not do that--No! But Nell was
concerned; her protection, her salvation, and her life were involved, for she could not endure
all this, and certainly would die either on the road or among the wild and brutalized hordes
of dervishes. What meant the blood of such wretches beside the life of Nell, and could any
one in such a situation hesitate?

"For Nell! For Nell!"

But suddenly a thought flew like a whirlwind through Stas' mind and caused the hair to rise
on his head. What would happen if any one of the outlaws placed a knife at Nell's breast, and
announced that he would murder her if he--Stas--did not surrender and return the rifle to them.

"Then," answered the boy to himself, "I should surrender at once."

And with a realization of his helplessness he again flung himself impotently upon the saddle-cloth.

The moon now peered obliquely through the opening of the cave and it became less dark. The
Arabs snored continually. Some time passed and a new idea began to dawn in Stas' head.

If, slipping out with the weapon and hiding among the rocks, he should kill not the men but
shoot the camels? It would be too bad and a sad ending for the innocent animals;--that is true,
but what was to be done? Why, people kill animals not only to save life but for broth and roast
meat. Now it was a certainty that if he succeeded in killing four, and better still five camels,
further travel would be impossible. No one in the caravan would dare to go to the villages
near the banks to purchase new camels. And in such a case Stas, in the name of his father,
would promise the men immunity from punishment and even a pecuniary reward and--nothing else
would remain to do but to return.

Yes, but if they should not give him time to make such a promise and should kill him in the
first transports of rage?

They must give him time and hear him for he would hold the rifle in his hand; he would be able
to hold them at bay until he stated everything. When he had done, they would understand that
their only salvation would be to surrender. Then he would be in command of the caravan and
lead it directly to Bahr Yûsuf and the Nile. To be sure, at present they are quite a distance
from it, perhaps one or two days' journey, as the Arabs through caution had turned considerably
into the interior of the desert. But that did not matter; there would remain, of course, a
few camels and on one of them Nell would ride.

Stas began to gaze attentively at the Arabs. They slept soundly, as people exceedingly tired
do, but as the night was waning, they might soon awaken. It was necessary to act at once. The
taking of the cartridge boxes did not present any difficulties as they lay close by. A more
difficult matter was to get the rifle, which Chamis had placed at his further side. Stas hoped
that he would succeed in purloining it, but he decided to draw it out of the case and put the
stock and the barrels together when he should be about fifty paces from the cave, as he feared
that the clank of the iron against iron would wake the sleepers.

The moment arrived. The boy bent like an arch over Chamis and, seizing the case by the handle,
began to transfer it to his side. His heart and pulse beat heavily, his eyes grew dim, his
breathing became rapid, but he shut his teeth and tried to control his emotions. Nevertheless
when the straps of the case creaked lightly, drops of cold perspiration stood on his forehead.
That second seemed to him an age. But Chamis did not even stir. The case described an arch
over him and rested silently beside the box with cartridges.

Stas breathed freely. One-half of the work was done. Now it was necessary to slip out of the
cave noiselessly and run about fifty paces; afterwards to hide in a fissure, open the case,
put the rifle together, load it, and fill his pockets with cartridges. The caravan then would
be actually at his mercy.

Stas' black silhouette was outlined on the brighter background of the cave's entrance. A second
more and he would be on the outside, and would hide in the rocky fissure. And then, even though
one of the outlaws should wake, before he realized what had happened and before he aroused
the others it would be too late. The boy, from fear of knocking down some stone, of which a
large number lay at the threshold of the niche, shoved out one foot and began to seek firm
ground with his step.

And already his head leaned out of the opening and he was about to slip out wholly when suddenly
something happened which turned the blood in his veins to ice.

Amid the profound stillness pealed like a thunderbolt the joyous bark of Saba; it filled the
whole ravine and awoke the echoes reposing in it. The Arabs as one man were startled from their
sleep, and the first object which struck their eyes was the sight of Stas with the case in
one hand and the cartridge box in the other.

Ah, Saba! what have you done?

X

With cries of horror, all in a moment rushed at Stas; in the twinkling of an eye they wrested
the rifle and cartridges from him and threw him on the ground, tied his hands and feet, striking
and kicking him all the time, until finally Idris, from fear of the boy's life, drove them
off. Afterwards they began to converse in disjointed words, as people do over whom had impended
a terrible danger and whom only an accident had saved.

"That is Satan incarnate," exclaimed Idris, with face pallid with fright and emotion.

"He would have shot us like wild geese for food," added Gebhr.

"Ah, if it was not for that dog."

"God sent him."

"And you wanted to kill him?" said Chamis.

"From this time no one shall touch him."

"He shall always have bones and water."

"Allah! Allah!" repeated Idris, not being able to compose himself. "Death was upon us. Ugh!"

And they began to stare at Stas lying there, with hatred but with a certain wonder that one
small boy might have been the cause of their calamity and destruction.

"By the prophet!" spoke out one of the Bedouins, "it is necessary to prevent this son of Iblis
from twisting our necks. We are taking a viper to the Mahdi. What do you intend to do with him?"

"We must cut off his right hand!" exclaimed Gebhr.

The Bedouins did not answer, but Idris would not consent to this proposition. It occurred to
him that if the pursuers should capture them, a more terrible punishment would be meted to
them for the mutilation of the boy. Finally, who could guarantee that Stas would not die after
such an operation? In such a case for the exchange of Fatma and her children only Nell would
remain. So when Gebhr pulled out his knife with the intention of executing his threat, Idris
seized him by the wrist and held it.

"No!" he said. "It would be a disgrace for five of the Mahdi's warriors to fear one Christian
whelp so much as to cut off his fist; we will bind him for the night, and for that which he
wanted to do, he shall receive ten lashes of the courbash."

Gebhr was ready to execute the sentence at once but Idris again pushed him away and ordered
the flogging to be done by one of the Bedouins, to whom he whispered not to hit very hard.
As Chamis, perhaps out of regard for his former service with the engineers or perhaps from
some other reason, did not want to mix in the matter, the other Bedouin turned Stas over with
his back up and the punishment was about to take place, when at that moment an unexpected obstacle
came.

At the opening of the niche Nell appeared with Saba.

Occupied with her pet, who, dashing into the cave, threw himself at once at her little feet,
she had heard the shouts of the Arabs, but, as in Egypt Arabs as well as Bedouins yell on every
occasion as if they are about to annihilate each other, she did not pay any attention to them.
Not until she called Stas and received no reply from him, did she go out to see whether he
was not already seated on the camels. With terror she saw in the first luster of the morning
Stas lying on the ground and above him a Bedouin with a courbash in his hand. At the sight
of this she screamed with all her strength and stamped with her little feet, and when the Bedouin,
not paying any attention to this, aimed the first blow, she flung herself forward and covered
the boy with her body.

The Bedouin hesitated, as he did not have an order to strike the little girl, and in the meantime
her voice resounded full of despair and horror:

"Saba! Saba!"

And Saba understood what was the matter and in one leap was in the niche. The hair bristled
on his neck and back, his eyes flamed redly, in his breast and powerful throat there was a
rumble as if of thunder.

And afterwards, the lips of his wrinkled jaws rose slowly upward and the teeth as well as the
white fangs, an inch long, appeared as far as the bloody gums. The giant mastiff now began
to turn his head to the right and to the left as if he wanted to display well his terrible
equipment to the Sudânese and Bedouins and tell them:

"Look! here is something with which I shall defend the children!"

They, on the other hand, retreated hurriedly for they knew in the first place that Saba had
saved their lives and again that it was a clear thing that whoever approached Nell at that
moment would have the fangs of the infuriated mastiff sunk at once in his throat. So they stood
irresolute, staring with an uncertain gaze and as if asking one another what in the present
situation had better be done.

Their hesitation continued so long that Nell had sufficient time to summon old Dinah and order
her to cut Stas' bonds. Then the boy, placing his hand on Saba's head, turned to his assailants:

"I did not want to kill you--only the camels," he said through his set teeth.

But this information so startled the Arabs that they undoubtedly would have again rushed at
Stas were it not for Saba's flaming eyes and bristling hair. Gebhr even started to dash towards
him, but one hollow growl riveted him to the spot.

A moment of silence followed, after which Idris' loud voice resounded:

"To the road! To the road!"

XI

A day passed, a night, and yet another day and they drove constantly southward, halting only
for a brief time in the khors in order not to fatigue the camels too much, to water and feed
them, and also to divide their provisions and water. From fear of the pursuit they turned yet
farther to the west, for they did not have to concern themselves about water for some time.
The downpour had lasted indeed not more than seven hours, but it was as tremendous as if a
cloud-burst had occurred on the desert. Idris and Gebhr as well as the Bedouins knew that on
the beds of the khors and in those places where the rocks formed natural cavities and wells
they would, for a few days, find enough water to suffice not only for their and the camels'
immediate wants but even for replenishing their supplies. After the great rain, as usual, splendid
weather followed. The sky was cloudless, and the air so transparent that the view reached over
an immeasurable distance. At night the heaven, studded with stars, twinkled and sparkled as
if with thousands of diamonds. From the desert sands came a refreshing coolness.

The camel-humps already grew smaller but the animals, being well-fed, were, according to the
Arabian expression, "harde," that is, they were unimpaired in strength and ran so willingly
that the caravan advanced but little slower than on the first day after their departure from
Gharak el-Sultani. Stas with astonishment observed that in some of the khors, in rocky fissures
protected from rain, were supplies of durra and dates. He inferred from this that, before their
abduction, certain preparations were made and everything was pre-arranged between Fatma, Idris,
and Gebhr on one side and the Bedouins on the other. It was also easy to surmise that both
the Bedouins were Mahdist adherents and believers, who wanted to join their leader, and for
that reason were easily drawn into the plot by the Sudânese. In the neighborhood of Fayûm and
ground Gharak el-Sultani there were quite a number of Bedouins who with their children and
camels led a migratory life on the desert and came to Medinet and the railway stations for gain.

Stas, however, had never seen these two before, and they also could not have been in Medinet,
for it appeared they did not know Saba.

The idea of attempting to bribe them occurred to the boy, but recollecting their shouts, full
of fervor, whenever the name of the Mahdi was mentioned by them, he deemed this an impossibility.
Nevertheless, he did not submit passively to the events, for in that boyish soul there was
imbedded a really astonishing energy, which was inflamed by the past failures.

"Everything which I have undertaken," he soliloquized, "ended in my getting a whipping. But
even if they flog me with that courbash every day and even kill me, I will not stop thinking
of rescuing Nell and myself from the hands of these villains. If the pursuers capture them,
so much the better. I, however, will act as if I did not expect them." And at the recollection
of what he had met at the thought of those treacherous and cruel people who, after snatching
away the rifle, had belabored him with fists and kicked him, his heart rebelled and rancor
grew. He felt not only vanquished but humiliated by them in his pride as a white man. Above
all, however, he felt Nell's wrong and this feeling, with the bitterness which intensified
within him after the last failure, changed into an inexorable hatred of both Sudânese. He had
often heard, indeed, from his father that hatred blinds, and that only such souls yield to
it as are incapable of anything better; but for the time being he could not subdue it within
him, and did not know how to conceal it.

He did not know to what extent Idris had observed it and had begun to get uneasy, understanding
that, in case the pursuing party should capture them, he could not depend upon the boy's intercession.
Idris was always ready for the most audacious deed, but as a man not deprived of reason, he
thought that it was necessary to provide for everything and in case of misfortune to leave
some gate of salvation open. For this reason, after the last occurrence he wanted in some manner
to conciliate Stas and, with this object, at the first stop, he began the following conversation
with him.

"After what you wanted to do," he said, "I had to punish you as otherwise they would have killed
you, but I ordered the Bedouin not to strike you hard."

And when he received no reply, he, after a while, continued thus:

"Listen! you yourself have said that the white people always keep their oath. So if you will
swear by your God and by the head of that little 'bint' that you will do nothing against us,
then I will not order you to be bound for the night."

Stas did not answer a single word to this and only from the glitter of his eyes did Idris perceive
that he spoke in vain.

Nevertheless, notwithstanding the urging of Gebhr and the Bedouins, he did not order him to
be bound for the night, and when Gebhr did not cease his importunities, he replied with anger:

"Instead of going to sleep, you will to-night stand on guard. I have decided that from this
time one of us shall watch during the sleep of the others."

And in reality a change of guards was introduced permanently from that day. This rendered more
difficult and completely frustrated all plans of Stas to whom every sentinel paid watchful
attention.

But on the other hand the children were left in greater freedom so that they could approach
each other and converse without hindrance. Immediately after the first stop Stas sat close
to Nell for he was anxious to thank her for her aid.

But though he felt great gratitude to her he did not know how to express himself, either in
a lofty style or tenderly; so he merely began to shake both of her little hands.

"Nell!" he said, "you are very good and I thank you; and besides this I frankly say that you
acted like a person of at least thirteen years."

On Stas' lips words like these were the highest praise; so the heart of the little woman was
consumed with joy and pride. It seemed to her at that moment that nothing was impossible. "Wait
till I grow up, then they will see!" she replied, throwing a belligerent glance in the direction
of the Sudânese.

But as she did not understand the cause of the trouble and why all the Arabs rushed at Stas,
the boy told her how he had determined to purloin the rifle, kill the camels, and force all
to return to the river.

"If I had succeeded," he said, "we would now be free."

"But they awoke?" asked the little girl with palpitating heart.

"They did. That was caused by Saba, who came running toward me, barking loud enough to awaken
the dead."

Then her indignation was directed against Saba.

"Nasty Saba! nasty! For this when he comes running up to me I won't speak a word to him and
will tell him that he is horrid."

At this Stas, though he was not in a laughing mood, laughed and asked:

"How will you be able not to say a word to him and at the same time tell him he is horrid?"

Nell's eyebrows rose and her countenance reflected embarrassment, after which she said:

"He will know that from my looks."

"Perhaps. But he is not to blame, for he could not know what was happening. Remember also that
afterwards he came to our rescue."

This recollection placated Nell's anger a little. She did not, however, want to grant pardon
to the culprit at once.

"That is very well," she said, "but a real gentleman ought not to bark on greeting."

Stas burst out laughing again.

"Neither does a real gentleman bark on leave-taking unless he is a dog, and Saba is one."

But after a while sorrow dimmed the boy's eyes; he sighed once, then again; after which he
rose from the stone on which they sat and said:

"The worst is that I could not free you."

And Nell raised herself on her little toes and threw her arms around his neck. She wanted to
cheer him; she wanted, with her little nose close to his face, to whisper her gratitude, but,
as she could not find appropriate words, she only squeezed his neck yet more tightly and kissed
his ear. In the meantime Saba, always late--not so much because he was unable to keep pace
with the camels, but because he hunted for jackals on the way, or drove away vultures perched
on the crests of rocks with his barking--came rushing up, making his customary noise. The children
at the sight of him forgot about everything, and notwithstanding their hard situation began
their usual caresses and play until they were interrupted by the Arabs. Chamis gave the dog
food and water, after which all mounted the camels and started with the greatest speed southward.

XII

It was their longest journey, for they rode with small interruption for eighteen hours. Only
real saddle-camels, having a good supply of water in their stomachs, could endure such a drive.
Idris did not spare them, for he really feared the pursuit. He understood that it must have
started long ago, and he assumed that both engineers would be at its head and would not lose
any time. Danger threatened from the direction of the river, for it was certain that immediately
after the abduction telegraphic orders were despatched to all settlements on the banks directing
the sheiks to start expeditions into the interior of the desert on both sides of the Nile,
and to detain all parties riding southward. Chamis assured the others that the Government and
engineers must have offered a large reward for their capture and that in consequence of this
the desert was undoubtedly swarming with searching parties. The only course to pursue would
be to turn as far as possible to the west; but on the west lay the great oasis of Kharga, to
which despatches also could reach, and besides, if they rode too far west they would lack water
after a few days, and death from thirst would await them.

And the question of food became a vital one. The Bedouins in the course of the two weeks preceding
the abduction of the children had placed in hiding-places, supplies of durra, biscuits, and
dates, but only for a distance of four days' journey from Medinet. Idris, with fear, thought
that when provisions should be lacking it would be imperatively necessary to send men to purchase
supplies at the villages on the river banks, and then these men, in view of the aroused vigilance
and reward offered for the capture of the fugitives, might easily fall into the hands of the
local sheiks,--and betray the whole caravan. The situation was indeed difficult, almost desperate,
and Idris each day perceived more plainly upon what an insane undertaking he had ventured.

"If we could only pass Assuan! If we could only pass Assuan!" he said to himself with alarm
and despair in his soul. He did not indeed believe Chamis who claimed that the Mahdi's warriors
had already reached Assuan, as Stas denied this.

Idris long since perceived that the white "uled" knew more than all of them. But he supposed
that beyond the first cataract, where the people were wilder and less susceptible to the influences
of Englishmen and the Egyptian Government, he would find more adherents of the prophet, who
in a case of emergency would give them succor, and would furnish food and camels. But it was,
as the Bedouins reckoned, about five days' journey to Assuan over a road which became more
and more desolate, and every stop visibly diminished their supplies for man and beast.

Fortunately they could urge the camels and drive with the greatest speed, for the heat did
not exhaust their strength. During daytime, at the noon hour, the sun, indeed, scorched strongly
but the air was continually invigorating and the nights so cool that Stas, with the consent
of Idris, changed his seat to Nell's camel, desiring to watch over her and protect her from
catching cold.

But his fears were vain, as Dinah, whose eyes, or rather, eye, improved considerably, watched
with great solicitude over her little lady. The boy was even surprised that the little one's
health thus far did not suffer any impairment and that she bore the journey, with everdecreasing
stops, as well as himself. Grief, fear, and the tears which she shed from longing for her papa
evidently did not harm her much. Perhaps her slightly emaciated and bright little countenance
was tanned by the wind, but in the later days of the journey she felt far less fatigued than
at the beginning. It is true that Idris gave her the easiest carrying camel and had made an
excellent saddle so that she could sleep in it lying down; nevertheless the desert air, which
she breathed day and night, mainly gave her strength to endure the hardships and irregular hours.

Stas not only watched over her but intentionally surrounded her with a worship which, notwithstanding
his immense attachment to his little sister, he did not at all feel for her. He observed, however,
that this affected the Arabs and that they involuntarily were fortified in the conviction that
they were bearing something of unheard-of value, some exceptionally important female captive,
with whom it was necessary to act with the greatest possible care. Idris had been accustomed
to this while at Medinet; so now all treated her well. They did not spare water and dates for
her. The cruel Gebhr would not now have dared to raise his hand against her. Perhaps the extraordinarily
fine stature of the little girl contributed to this, and also that there was in her something
of the nature of a flower and of a bird, and this charm even the savage and undeveloped souls
of the Arabs could not resist. Often also, when at a resting place she stood by the fire fed
by the roses of Jericho or thorns, rosy from the flame and silvery in the moonlight, the Sudânese
as well as the Bedouins could not tear their eyes from her, smacking their lips from admiration,
according to their habit, and murmuring:

"Allah! Mashallah! Bismillah!"

The second day at noon after that long rest, Stas and Nell who rode this time on the same camel,
had a moment of joyful emotion. Immediately after sunrise a light and transparent mist rose
over the desert, but it soon fell. Afterwards when the sun ascended higher, the heat became
greater than during the previous days. At moments when the camels halted there could not be
felt the slightest breeze, so that the air as well as the sands seemed to slumber in the warmth,
in the light, and in the stillness. The caravan had just ridden upon a great monotonous level
ground, unbroken by khors, when suddenly a wonderful spectacle presented itself to the eyes
of the children. Groups of slender palms and pepper trees, plantations of mandarins, white
houses, a small mosque with projecting minaret, and, lower, walls surrounding gardens, all
these appeared with such distinctness and at distance so close that one might assume that after
the lapse of half an hour the caravan would be amid the trees of the oasis.

"What is this?" exclaimed Stas. "Nell, Nell! Look!"

Nell rose, and for a time was silent with astonishment, but after a while began to cry with joy:

"Medinet! to papa! to papa!"

And Stas turned pale from emotion.

"Truly--Perhaps that is Kharga--But no! That is Medinet perhaps--I recognize the minaret and
even see the windmills above the wells--"

In fact, in the distance the highly elevated American windmills resembling great white stars,
actually glistened. On the verdant background of the trees they could be seen so perfectly
that Stas' keen sight could distinguish the borders of the vanes painted red.

"That is Medinet!--"

Stas knew from books and narratives that there were on the desert phantasms known as "fata
morgana" and that sometimes travelers happen to see oases, cities, tufts of trees and lakes,
which are nothing more than an illusion, a play of light, and a reflection of real distant
objects. But this time the phenomenon was so distinct, so well-nigh palpable that he could
not doubt that he saw the real Medinet. There was the turret upon the Mudir's house, there
the circular balcony near the summit of the minaret from which the muezzin called to prayers,
there that familiar group of trees, and particularly those windmills. No,--that must be the
reality. It occurred to the boy that the Sudânese, reflecting upon their situation, had come
to the conclusion that they could not escape and, without saying anything to him, had turned
back to Fayûm. But their calmness suggested to him the first doubts. If that really was Fayûm,
would they gaze upon it so indifferently? They, of course, saw the phenomenon and pointed it
out to each other with their fingers, but on their faces could not be seen the least perplexity
or emotion. Stas gazed yet once more and perhaps this indifference of the Arabs caused the
picture to seem fainter to him. He also thought that, if in truth they were returning, the
caravan would be grouped together, and the men, though only from fear, would ride in a body.
But, in the meanwhile, the Bedouins, who, by Idris' order, for the past few days drove considerably
in advance, could not be seen at all; while Chamis, riding as a rear guard, appeared at a distance
not greater than the vulture lying on the ground.

"Fata Morgana," said Stas to himself.

In the meantime Idris approached him and shouted:

"Heigh! Speed your camel! You see Medinet!"

He evidently spoke jokingly and there was so much spite in his voice that the last hope that
the real Medinet was before him vanished in the boy's heart.

And with sorrow in his heart he turned to Nell to dispel her delusion, when unexpectedly an
incident occurred which drew the attention of all in another direction.

At first a Bedouin appeared, running towards them at full speed and brandishing from afar a
long Arabian rifle which no one in the caravan possessed before that time. Reaching Idris,
he exchanged a few hurried words with him, after which the caravan turned precipitately into
the interior of the desert. But, after a time, the other Bedouin appeared leading by a rope
a fat she-camel, with a saddle on its hump and leather bags hanging on its sides. A short conversation
commenced, of which Stas could not catch a word. The caravan in full speed made for the west.
It halted only when they chanced upon a narrow khor full of rocks scattered in wild disorder,
and of fissures and caverns. One of these was so spacious that the Sudânese hid the people
and camels in it. Stas, although he conjectured more or less what had happened, lay beside
Idris and pretended to sleep, hoping that the Arabs, who thus far had exchanged but a few words
about the occurrence, would now begin to speak about it. In fact, his hope was not disappointed,
for immediately after pouring out fodder for the camels, the Bedouins and the Sudânese with
Chamis sat down for a consultation.

"Henceforth we can ride only in the night; in the daytime we will have to hide!" spoke out
the one-eyed Bedouin. "There will be many khors now and in each one of them we will find a
safe hiding-place."

"Are you sure that he was a sentinel?" asked Idris.

"Allah! We spoke with him. Luckily there was only one. He stood hidden by a rock, so that we
could not see him, but we heard from a distance the cry of his camel. Then we slackened our
speed and rode up so quietly that he saw us only when we were a few paces away. He became very
frightened and wanted to aim his rifle at us. If he had fired, though he might not have killed
any of us, the other sentinels would have heard the shot; so, as hurriedly as possible, I yelled
to him: 'Halt! we are pursuing men who kidnapped two white children, and soon the whole pursuit
will be here!' The boy was young and foolish, so he believed us; only he ordered us to swear
on the Koran that such was the case. We got off our camels and swore--"

"The Mahdi will absolve us--"

"And bless you," said Idris. "Speak! what did you do afterwards?"

"Now," continued the Bedouin, "when we swore, I said to the boy: 'But who can vouch that you
yourself do not belong to the outlaws who are running away with the white children, and whether
they did not leave you here to hold back the pursuit?' And I ordered him also to take an oath.
To this he assented and this caused him to believe us all the more. We began to ask him whether
any orders had come over the copper wire to the sheiks and whether a pursuit was organized.
He replied: 'Yes!' and told us that a great reward was offered, and that all khors at a two
days' distance from the river were guarded, and that the great 'baburs' (steamers), with Englishmen
and troops are continually floating over the river."

"Neither the 'baburs' nor the troops can avail against the might of Allah and the prophet--"

"May it be as you say!"

"Tell us how you finished with the boy?"

The one-eyed Bedouin pointed at his companion.

"Abu-Anga," he said, "asked him whether there was not another sentinel near-by, and the sentinel
replied that there was not; then Abu-Anga thrust his knife into the sentinel's throat so suddenly
that he did not utter a word. We threw him into a deep cleft and covered him with stones and
thorns. In the village they will think that he ran away to the Mahdi, for he told us that this
does happen."

"May God bless those who run away as he blessed you," answered Idris.

"Yes! He did bless us," retorted Abu-Anga, "for we now know that we will have to keep at a
three days' distance from the river, and besides we captured a rifle which we needed and a
milch she-camel."

"The gourds," added the one-eyed, "are filled with water and there is considerable millet in
the sacks; but we found but little powder."

"Chamis is carrying a few hundred cartridges for the white boy's rifle, from which we cannot
shoot. Powder is always the same and can be used in ours."

Saying this, Idris nevertheless pondered, and heavy anxiety was reflected in his dark face,
for he understood that when once a corpse had fallen to the ground, Stas' intercession would
not secure immunity for them from trial and punishment, if they should fall into the hands
of the Egyptian Government.

Stas listened with palpitating heart and strained attention. In that conversation there were
some comforting things, especially that a pursuit was organized, that a reward was offered,
and that the sheiks of the tribes on the river banks had received orders to detain caravans
going southward. The boy was comforted also by the intelligence about steamers filled with
English troops plying on the upper river. The dervishes of the Mahdi might cope with the Egyptian
army and even defeat it, but it was an entirely different matter with English people, and Stas
did not doubt for a moment that the first battle would result in the total rout of the savage
multitude. So, with comfort in his soul, he soliloquized thus: "Even though they wish to bring
us to the Mahdi, it may happen that before we reach his camp there will not be any Mahdi or
his dervishes." But this solace was embittered by the thought that in such case there awaited
them whole weeks of travel, which in the end must exhaust Nell's strength, and during all this
time they would be forced to remain in the company of knaves and murderers. At the recollection
of that young Arab, whom the Bedouins had butchered like a lamb, fear and sorrow beset Stas.
He decided not to speak of it to Nell in order not to frighten her and augment the sorrow she
felt after the disappearance of the illusory picture of the oasis of Fayûm and the city of
Medinet. He saw before their arrival at the ravine that tears were involuntarily surging to
her eyes; therefore, when he had learned everything which he wished to know from the Bedouins'
narratives, he pretended to awake and walked towards her. She sat in a corner near Dinah, eating
dates, moistened a little with her tears. But seeing Stas, she recollected that not long before
he declared that her conduct was worthy of a person of at least thirteen years; so, not desiring
to appear again as a child, she bit the kernel of a date with the full strength of her little
teeth, so as to suppress her sobs.

"Nell," said the boy, "Medinet--that was an illusion, but I know for a certainty that we are
being pursued; so don't grieve, and don't cry."

At this the little girl raised towards him her tearful pupils and replied in a broken voice:

"No, Stas--I do not want to cry--only my eyes--perspire so."

But at that moment her chin began to quiver; from under her closed eyelashes big tears gushed
and she wept in earnest.

However, as she was ashamed of her tears and expected a rebuke for them from Stas, a little
from shame and a little from fear she hid her head on his bosom, wetting his clothes copiously.

But he at once consoled her.

"Nell, don't be a fountain. You saw that they took away from some Arab a rifle and a she-camel.
Do you know what that means? It means that the desert is full of soldiers. Once these wretches
succeeded in trapping a sentinel, but the next time they themselves will get caught. A large
number of steamboats are plying over the Nile also--Why, of course, Nell, we will return. We
will return, and in a steamer to boot. Don't be afraid."

And he would have comforted her further in this manner, were not his attention attracted by
a strange sound coming from the outside, from the sand-drifts, which the hurricane blew onto
the bottom of the ravine. It was something resembling the thin, metallic notes of a reed pipe.
Stas broke off the conversation and began to listen. After a while these very thin and mournful
sounds came from many sides simultaneously. Through the boy's mind the thought flashed that
these might be Arabian guards surrounding the ravine and summoning aid with whistles. His heart
began to beat. He glanced once and again at the Sudânese, hoping that he would behold consternation
on their faces; but no! Idris, Gebhr and the two Bedouins calmly chewed biscuits, only Chamis
appeared a little surprised. The sounds continued. After a while Idris rose and looked out
of the cavern; returning, he stopped near the children, and said:

"The sands are beginning to sing."

Stas' curiosity was so aroused that he forgot that he had determined not to speak to Idris
any more and asked:

"Sands? What does it mean?"

"It happens thus, and means that for a long time there will be no rain. But the heat will not
distress us, since as far as Assuan we will ride only during the night."

And no more could be learned from him. Stas and Nell listened long to these peculiar sounds
which continued until the sun descended in the west, after which night fell and the caravan
started on its further journey.

XIII

In the daytime they hid in places concealed and difficult of access, amid rocks and chasms,
and during the night they hurried, without respite, until they passed the First Cataract. When
finally the Bedouins discerned from the situation and form of the khors that Assuan was behind
them, a great burden fell off Idris' breast. As they suffered already from want of water they
drew nearer to the river a half day's distance. There Idris, concealing the caravan, sent all
the camels with the Bedouins to the Nile in order to water them well and for a longer time.
Beyond Assuan the fertile belt along the river was narrower. In some places the desert reached
the river; the villages lay at a considerable distance from each other. The Bedouins, therefore,
returned successfully, unseen by any one, with a considerable supply of water. It was necessary
now to think of provisions. As the animals had been fed sparingly during the past week they
grew lean; their necks lengthened, their humps sank, and their legs became weak. The durra
and the supplies for the people, with the greatest stint, would suffice for two days more.
Idris thought, however, that they might, if not during daytime then at night, approach the
pastures on the river banks and perhaps buy biscuits and dates in some village. Saba already
was given nothing at all to eat or drink, and the children hid leavings of food for him, but
he somehow managed to take care of himself and came running to the stopping places with bleeding
jaws and marks of bites on his neck and breast. Whether the victim of these fights was a jackal,
or a hyena, or perhaps a desert fox or a gazelle no one knew; it was enough that there were
no signs of great hunger on him. At times also his black lips were moist as if he drank. The
Bedouins surmised that he must have dug deep holes at the bottom of the ravines, and in this
manner reached water which he scented under the ground. In this manner travelers who get lost
dig the bottoms of chasms and, if they do not often find water, they almost always reach damp
sand and, sucking it, cheat in this way the pangs of thirst. In Saba, however, considerable
changes took place. He still had a powerful breast and neck, but his sides were sunken, through
which he appeared taller. In his eyes, about the reddened whites, there was now something savage
and threatening. To Nell and to Stas he was as attached as previously and permitted them to
do with him whatever they pleased. He still at times wagged his tail at Chamis, but he growled
at the Bedouins and Sudânese or snapped with his terrible teeth, which at such times clashed
against each other like steel nails. Idris and Gebhr plainly began to fear and hate him to
the extent that they would have killed him with the captured rifle, were it not that they desired
to bring this extraordinary animal to Smain, and were it not also that they had already passed
Assuan.

They had passed Assuan! Stas thought of this continually, and doubt that the pursuit would
ever overtake them stole gradually into his soul. He knew, indeed, that not only Egypt proper,
which ends at Wâdi Haifa, that is, at the Second Cataract, but the whole of Nubia was up to
that time in the hands of the Egyptian Government, but he also understood that beyond Assuan
and particularly Wâdi Haifa the pursuit would be more difficult and the commands of the Government
would be executed carelessly. His only hope was that his father with Mr. Rawlinson, after making
arrangements for the pursuit from Fayûm, would go to Wâdi Haifa by steamer, and there securing
troops of the camel-corps, would endeavor to intercept the caravan from the south. The boy
reasoned that if he were in their place he would do just this, and for that reason he assumed
that his supposition was very probable.

He did not, however, abandon the thought of a rescue on his own account. The Sudânese wanted
to have powder for the captured rifle and with this object decided to disjoin a score of the
rifle cartridges, so he told them that he alone was able to do that, and that if any one of
them should undertake the task unskilfully, the cartridge would explode in his fingers and
tear off his hands. Idris, fearing English inventions and unknown things generally, determined
finally to entrust the boy with this undertaking. Stas went at it willingly, hoping in the
first place that the powerful English powder at the first shot would burst the old Arabian
rifle to pieces, and, again, that he might be able to hide a few cartridges. In fact, he succeeded
more easily than he expected. Apparently they watched him at the work, but the Arabs began
at once to talk among themselves and soon they were more occupied with their conversation than
with their supervision. Finally this loquacity and inbred carelessness permitted Stas to conceal
in his bosom seven cartridges. Now all that was necessary was to secure the rifle.

The boy judged that beyond Wâdi Haifa, the Second Cataract, this would not be a very difficult
matter as he foresaw that as they drew nearer to their destination the Arabs' vigilance would
relax. The thought that he would have to kill the Sudânese, the Bedouins, and even Chamis,
always caused him to shudder, but after the murder which the Bedouins had committed, he did
not have any scruples. He said to himself that the defense, liberty, and life of Nell were
involved, and in view of this the lives of his adversaries did not deserve any consideration,
especially if they did not surrender and it came to a fight.

But he was anxious about the short rifle. Stas resolved to secure it by stratagem, whenever
the opportunity presented itself, and not to wait until they reached Wâdi Haifa, but perform
the deed as soon as possible.

Accordingly he did not wait.

Two days had elapsed since they passed Assuan, and Idris finally at the dawn of the third day
was forced to despatch the Bedouins for provisions, which were totally lacking. In view of
the diminished number of adversaries Stas said to himself: "Now or never!" and immediately
turned to the Sudânese with the following question:

"Idris, do you know that the country which begins not far beyond Wâdi Haifa is really Nubia?"

"I know. I was fifteen years old and Gebhr eight, when my father took us from the Sudân to
Fayûm, and I remember that we rode at that time on camels over the whole of Nubia. But this
country belongs still to the Turks (Egyptians)."

"Yes. The Mahdi is only before Khartûm and you see how foolishly Chamis chattered when he told
you that the army of dervishes reached as far as Assuan. However, I shall ask you something
else. Now I have read that in Nubia there are many wild animals and many brigands who do not
serve any one and who attack alike the Egyptians and the faithful Mahdists. With what will
you defend yourself, if wild animals or brigands attack you?"

Stas purposely exaggerated in speaking of wild animals, but, on the other hand, highway robberies
in Nubia, from the time of the war, occurred quite frequently, particularly in the southern
part of the country bordering upon the Sudân.

Idris pondered for a while over the question, which surprised him, as heretofore he had not
thought of these new dangers, and replied:

"We have knives and a rifle."

"Such a rifle is good for nothing."

"I know. Yours is better, but we do not know how to shoot from it, and we will not place it
in your hands."

"Even unloaded?"

"Yes, for it may be bewitched."

Stas shrugged his shoulders.

"Idris, if Gebhr said that, I would not be surprised, but I thought that you had more sense.
From an unloaded rifle even your Mahdi could not fire--"

"Silence!" interrupted Idris sternly. "The Mahdi is able to fire even from his finger."

"Then you also can fire in that way."

The Sudânese looked keenly into the boy's eyes.

"Why do you want me to give you the rifle?"

"I want to teach you how to fire from it."

"Why should that concern you?"

"A great deal, for if the brigands attack us they might kill us all. But if you are afraid
of the rifle and of me then it does not matter."

Idris was silent. In reality he was afraid, but did not want to admit it. He was anxious, however,
to get acquainted with the English weapon, for its possession and skill in its use would increase
his importance in the Mahdists' camp, to say nothing of the fact that it would be easier for
him to defend himself in case of an attack.

So after a brief consideration he said:

"Good. Let Chamis hand you the rifle-case and you can take it out."

Chamis indifferently performed the order, which Gebhr could not oppose, as he was occupied
at some distance with the camels. Stas with quivering hands took out the stock and afterwards
the barrels, and handed them to Idris.

"You see they are empty."

Idris took the barrels and peered upwards through them.

"Yes, there is nothing in them."

"Now observe," said Stas. "This is the way to put a rifle together" (and saying this he united
the barrel and stock). "This is the way to open it. Do you see? I will take it apart again
and you can put it together."

The Sudânese, who watched Stas' motions with great attention, tried to imitate him. At first
it was not easy for him, but as Arabians are well known for their skilfulness, the rifle, after
a while, was put together.

"Open!" commanded Stas.

Idris opened the rifle easily.

"Close."

This was done yet more easily.

"Now give me two empty shells. I will teach you how to load the cartridges."

The Arabs had kept the empty cartridges as they had a value for them as brass; so Idris handed
two of them to Stas and the instruction began anew.

The Sudânese at first was frightened a little by the crack of the caps of the shells, but finally
became convinced that no one was able to fire from empty barrels and empty shells. In addition,
his trust in Stas returned because the boy handed the weapon to him every little while.

"Yes," said Stas, "you already know how to put a rifle together, you know how to open, to close,
and to pull the trigger. But now it is necessary for you to learn to aim. That is the most
difficult thing. Take that empty water gourd and place it at a hundred paces--on those stones,
and afterwards return to me; I will show you how to aim."

Idris took the gourd and without the slightest hesitation walked to the place by the stones
which Stas had indicated. But before he made the first hundred steps, Stas extracted the empty
shells and substituted loaded cartridges. Not only his heart but the arteries in his temples
began to throb with such a force that he thought that his head would burst. The decisive moment
arrived--the moment of freedom for Nell and himself--the moment of victory--terrible and at
the same time desirable.

Now Idris' life was in his hands. One pull of the trigger and the traitor who had kidnapped
Nell would fall a corpse. But Stas, who had in his veins both Polish and French blood, suddenly
felt that for nothing in the world could he be capable of shooting a man in the back. Let him
at least turn around and face death in the eye. And after that, what? After that, Gebhr would
come rushing up, and before he ran ten paces he also would bite the dust. Chamis would remain.
But Chamis would lose his head, and even though he should not lose it, there would be time
to insert new cartridges in the barrels. When the Bedouins arrived, they would find three corpses,
and meet a fate they richly deserved. After that he would only have to guide the camels to
the river.

All these thoughts and pictures flew like a whirlwind through Stas' brain. He felt that what
was to happen after a few minutes was at the same time horrible and imperative. The pride of
a conqueror surged in his breast with a feeling of aversion for the dreadful deed. There was
a moment when he hesitated, but he recalled the tortures which the white prisoners endured;
he recalled his father, Mr. Rawlinson, Nell, also Gebhr, who struck the little girl with a
courbash, and hatred burst out in him with renewed force. "It is necessary!" he said through
his set teeth, and inflexible determination was reflected on his countenance, which became
as if carved out of stone.

In the meantime Idris placed the gourd on a stone about a hundred paces distant and turned
around. Stas saw his smiling face and his whole tall form upon the plain. For the last time
the thought flashed through his mind that this living man would fall after a moment upon the
ground, clutching the sand with his fingers in the last convulsions of the throes of death.
But the hesitation of the boy ended, and when Idris sauntered fifty paces toward him, he began
slowly to raise the weapon to his eye.

But before he touched the trigger with his finger, from beyond the dunes, about a few hundred
paces distant, could be heard tumultuous cheers, and in the same minute about twenty riders
on horses and camels debouched on the plain. Idris became petrified at the sight. Stas was
amazed no less, but at once amazement gave way to insane joy. The expected pursuit at last!
Yes! That could not be anything else. Evidently the Bedouins had been captured in a village
and were showing where the rest of the caravan was concealed! Idris thought the same. When
he collected himself he ran to Stas, with face ashen from terror, and, kneeling at his feet,
began to repeat in a voice out of breath:

"Sir, I was kind to you! I was kind to the little 'bint'! Remember that!"

Stas mechanically extracted the cartridges from the barrels and gazed. The riders drove horses
and camels at the fullest speed, shouting from joy and flinging upwards their long Arabian
rifles, which they caught while in full gallop with extraordinary dexterity. In the bright
transparent air they could be seen perfectly. In the middle, at the van, ran the two Bedouins
waving their hands and burnooses as if possessed.

After a few minutes the whole band dashed to the caravan. Some of the riders leaped off the
horses and camels; some remained on their saddles, yelling at the top of their voices. Amid
these shouts only two words could be distinguished.

"Khartûm! Gordon! Gordon! Khartûm!"

Finally one of the Bedouins--the one whom his companion called Abu-Anga--ran up to Idris cringing
at Stas' feet, and began to exclaim:

"Khartûm is taken! Gordon is killed! The Mahdi is victorious!"

Idris stood erect but did not yet believe his ears.

"And these men?" he asked with quivering lips.

"These men were to seize us, but now are going together with us to the prophet."

Stas' head swam.

XIV

It was evident that the last hope of escaping during the journey had become extinct. Stas now
knew that his schemes would avail nothing; that the pursuit would not overtake them, and that
if they endured the hardships of the journey they would reach the Mahdi and would be surrendered
to Smain. The only consolation now was the thought that they were kidnapped so that Smain might
exchange them for his children. But when would that happen, and what would they encounter before
that time? What dreadful misfortune awaited them among the savage hordes intoxicated with blood?
Would Nell be able to endure all these fatigues and privations?

This no one could answer. On the other hand, it was known that the Mahdi and his dervishes
hated Christians, and Europeans in general; so in the soul of the boy there was bred a fear
that the influence of Smain might not be sufficient to shield them from indignities, from rough
treatment, from the cruelties and the rage of the Mahdist believers, who even murdered Mohammedans
loyal to the Government. For the first time since the abduction deep despair beset the boy,
and at the same time some kind of vague notion that an untoward fate was persecuting them.
Why, the idea itself of abducting them from Fayûm and conveying them to Khartûm was sheer madness
which could be committed only by such wild and foolish men as Idris and Gebhr, not understanding
that they would have to traverse thousands of kilometers over a country subject to the Egyptian
Government or, more properly, English people. With proper methods they ought to have been caught
on the second day, and nevertheless everything combined so that now they were not far from
the Second Cataract and none of the preceding pursuing parties had overtaken them, and the
last one which could have detained them joined the kidnappers and, from this time, would aid
them. To Stas' despair, to his fears about little Nell's fate, was linked a feeling of humiliation
that he was unequal to the situation and, what was more, was unable now to devise anything,
for even if they returned the rifle and cartridges to him, he could not, of course, shoot all
the Arabs composing the caravan.

And he was gnawed all the more by these thoughts because deliverance had been already so near.
If Khartûm had not fallen, or if it had fallen only a few days later, these same men, who went
over to the side of the Mahdi, would have seized their captors and delivered them to the Government.
Stas, sitting on the camel behind Idris and listening to their conversation, became convinced
that this undoubtedly would have happened. For, immediately after they proceeded upon their
further journey, the leader of the pursuing party began to relate to Idris what induced them
to commit treason to the Khedive. They knew previously that a great army--not an Egyptian now
but an English one--had started southward against the dervishes under the command of General
Wolseley. They saw a multitude of steamers, which carried formidable English soldiers from
Assuan to Wâdi Haifa, from whence a railroad was built for them to Abu Hâmed. For a long time
all the sheiks on the river banks,--those who remained loyal to the Government as well as those
who in the depth of their souls favored the Mahdi,--were certain that the destruction of the
dervishes and their prophet was inevitable, for no one had ever vanquished the Englishmen.

"Akbar Allah!" interrupted Idris, raising his hands upwards. "Nevertheless, they have been
vanquished."

"No," replied the leader of the pursuing party. "The Mahdi sent against them the tribes of
Jaalin, Barabra, and Janghey, nearly thirty thousand in all of his best warriors, under the
command of Musa, the son of Helu. At Abu Klea a terrible battle took place in which God awarded
the victory to the unbelievers.--Yes, it is so. Musa, the son of Helu, fell, and of his soldiers
only a handful returned to the Mahdi. The souls of the others are in Paradise, while their
bodies lie upon the sands, awaiting the day of resurrection. News of this spread rapidly over
the Nile. Then we thought that the English would go farther south and relieve Khartûm. The
people repeated, 'The end! the end!' And in the meantime God disposed otherwise."

"How? What happened?" asked Idris feverishly.

"What happened?" said the leader with a brightened countenance. "Why, in the meantime the Mahdi
captured Khartûm, and during the assault Gordon's head was cut off. And as the Englishmen were
concerned only about Gordon, learning of his death, they returned to the north. Allah! We again
saw the steamers with the stalwart soldiers floating down the river, but did not understand
what it meant. The English publish good news immediately and suppress bad. Some of our people
said that the Mahdi had already perished. But finally the truth came to the surface. This region
belongs yet to the Government. In Wâdi Haifa and farther, as far as the Third and perhaps the
Fourth Cataract, the soldiers of the Khedive can be found; nevertheless, after the retirement
of the English troops, we believe now that the Mahdi will subdue not only Nubia and Egypt,
not only Mecca and Medina, but the whole world. For that reason instead of capturing you and
delivering you to the hands of the Government we are going together with you to the prophet."

"So orders came to capture us?"

"To all the villages, to all the sheiks, to the military garrisons. Wherever the copper wire,
over which fly the commands of the Khedive, does not reach, there came the 'zabdis' (gendarmes)
with the announcement that whoever captures you will receive one thousand pounds reward. Mashallah!--That
is great wealth!--Great!"

Idris glanced suspiciously at the speaker.

"But you prefer the blessing of the Mahdi?"

"Yes. He captured such immense booty and so much money in Khartûm that he measures the Egyptian
pounds in fodder sacks and distributes them among his faithful--"

"Nevertheless, if the Egyptian troops are yet in Wâdi Haifa, and further, they may seize us
on the way."

"No. It is necessary only to hurry before they recover their wits. Now since the retreat of
the Englishmen they have lost their heads entirely--the sheiks, the loyal to the Government,
as well as the soldiers and 'zabdis.' All think that the Mahdi at any moment will arrive; for
that reason those of us who in our souls favored him are now running to him boldly, and nobody
is pursuing us, for in the first moments no one is issuing orders and no one knows whom to obey."

"Yes," replied Idris, "you say truly that it is necessary to hurry, before they recover their
wits, since Khartûm is yet far--"

For an instant a faint gleam of hope glimmered again for Stas. If the Egyptian soldiers up
to that time occupied various localities on the banks in Nubia, then in view of the fact that
the English troops had taken all the steamers, they would have to retreat before the Mahdi's
hordes by land. In such case it might happen that the caravan would encounter some retreating
detachment and might be surrounded. Stas reckoned also that before the news of the capture
of Khartûm circulated among the Arabian tribes north of Wâdi Haifa, considerable time would
elapse; the more so as the Egyptian Government and the English people suppressed it. He therefore
assumed that the panic which must have prevailed among the Egyptians in the first moment must
have already passed away. To the inexperienced boy it never occurred that in any event the
downfall of Khartûm and the death of Gordon would cause people to forget about everything else,
and that the sheiks loyal to the Government as well as the local authorities would now have
something else to do than to think of rescuing two white children.

And in fact the Arabs who joined the caravan did not fear the pursuit very much. They rode
with great haste and did not spare the camels, but they kept close to the Nile and often during
the night turned to the river to water the animals and to fill the leather bags with water.
At times they ventured to ride to villages even in daytime. For safety they sent in advance
for scouting a few men who, under the pretext of buying provisions, inquired for news of the
locality; whether there were any Egyptian troops near-by and whether the inhabitants belonged
to "the loyal Turks." If they met residents secretly favoring the Mahdi, then the entire caravan
would visit the village, and often it happened that it was increased by a few or even a dozen
or more young Arabs who also wanted to fly to the Mahdi.

Idris learned also that almost all the Egyptian detachments were stationed on the side of the
Nubian Desert, therefore on the right, the eastern side of the Nile. In order to avoid an encounter
with them it was necessary only to keep to the left bank and to pass by the larger cities and
settlements. This indeed lengthened their route a great deal, for the river, beginning at Wâdi
Haifa, forms a gigantic arch inclining far towards the south and afterwards again curving to
the northeast as far as Abu Hâmed, where it takes a direct southern course, but on the other
hand this left bank, particularly from the Oasis of Selimeh, was left almost entirely unguarded.
The journey passed merrily for the Sudânese in an increased company with an abundance of water
and supplies. Passing the Third Cataract, they ceased even to hurry, and rode only at night,
hiding during the day among sandy hills and ravines with which the whole desert was intersected.
A cloudless sky now extended over them, gray at the horizon's edges, bulging in the center
like a gigantic cupola, silent and calm. With each day, however, the heat, in proportion to
their southward advance, became more and more terrible, and even in the ravines, in the deep
shade, it distressed the people and the beasts. On the other hand, the nights were very cool;
they scintillated with twinkling stars which formed, as it were, greater and smaller clusters.
Stas observed that they were not the same constellations which shone at night over Port Said.
At times he had dreamed of seeing sometime in his life the Southern Cross, and finally beheld
it beyond El-Ordeh. But at present its luster proclaimed to him his own misfortune. For a few
nights there shone for him the pale, scattered, and sad zodiacal light, which, after the waning
of the evening twilight, silvered until a late hour the western side of the sky.

XV

In two weeks after starting from the neighborhood of Wâdi Haifa the caravan entered upon the
region subdued by the Mahdi. They speedily crossed the hilly Jesira Desert, and near Shendi,
where previously the English forces had completely routed Musa, Uled of Helu, they rode into
a locality entirely unlike the desert. Neither sands nor dunes could be seen here. As far as
the eye could reach stretched a steppe overgrown in part by green grass and in part by a jungle
amid which grew clusters of thorny acacias, yielding the well-known Sudânese gum; while here
and there stood solitary gigantic nabbuk trees, so expansive that under their boughs a hundred
people could find shelter from the sun. From time to time the caravan passed by high, pillar-like
hillocks of termites or white ants, with which tropical Africa is strewn. The verdure of the
pasture and the acacias agreeably charmed the eyes after the monotonous, tawny-hued sands of
the desert.

In the places where the steppe was a meadow, herds of camels pastured, guarded by the armed
warriors of the Mahdi. At the sight of the caravan they started up suddenly, like birds of
prey; rushed towards it, surrounded it from all sides; and shaking their spears and at the
same time yelling at the top of their voices they asked the men from whence they came, why
they were going southward, and whither they were bound? At times they assumed such a threatening
attitude that Idris was compelled to reply to their questions in the greatest haste in order
to avoid attack.

Stas, who had imagined that the inhabitants of the Sudân differed from other Arabs residing
in Egypt only in this, that they believed in the Mahdi and did not want to acknowledge the
authority of the Khedive, perceived that he was totally mistaken. The greater part of those
who every little while stopped the caravan had skins darker than even Idris and Gebhr, and
in comparison with the two Bedouins were almost black. The negro blood in them predominated
over the Arabian. Their faces and breasts were tattooed and the prickings represented various
designs, or inscriptions from the Koran. Some were almost naked; others wore "jubhas" or wrappers
of cotton texture sewed out of patches of various colors. A great many had twigs of coral or
pieces of ivory in their pierced nostrils, lips and ears. The heads of the leaders were covered
with caps of the same texture as the wrappers, and the heads of common warriors were bare,
but not shaven like those of the Arabs in Egypt. On the contrary, they were covered with enormous
twisted locks, often singed red with lime, with which they rubbed their tufts of hair for protection
against vermin. Their weapons were mainly spears, terrible in their hands; but they did not
lack Remington carbines which they had captured in their victorious battles with the Egyptian
army and after the fall of Khartûm. The sight of them was terrifying and their behavior toward
the caravan was hostile, for they suspected that it consisted of Egyptian traders, whom the
Mahdi, in the first moments after the victory, prohibited from entering the Sudân.

Having surrounded the caravan, they pointed the spears with tumult and menace at the breasts
of the people, or aimed carbines at them. To this hostile demonstration Idris answered with
a shout that he and his brother belonged to the Dongolese tribe, the same as that of the Mahdi,
and that they were conveying to the prophet two white children as slaves; this alone restrained
the savages from violence. In Stas, when he came in contact with this dire reality, the spirit
withered at the thought of what awaited them on the ensuing days. Idris, also, who previously
had lived long years in a civilized community, had never imagined anything like this. He was
pleased when one night they were surrounded by an armed detachment of the Emir Nur el-Tadhil
and conducted to Khartûm.

Nur el-Tadhil, before he ran away to the Mahdi, was an Egyptian officer in a negro regiment
of the Khedive: so he was not so savage as the other Mahdists and Idris could more easily make
himself understood. But here disappointment awaited him. He imagined that his arrival at the
Mahdi's camp with the white children would excite admiration, if only on account of the extraordinary
hardships and dangers of the journey. He expected that the Mahdists would receive him with
ardor, with open arms, and lead him in triumph to the prophet, who would lavish gold and praises
upon him as a man who had not hesitated to expose his head in order to serve his relative Fatma.
In the meantime the Mahdists placed spears at the breasts of members of the caravan, and Nur
el-Tadhil heard quite indifferently his narrative of the journey, and finally to the question,
whether he knew Smain, the husband of Fatma, answered:

"No. In Omdurmân and Khartûm there are over one hundred thousand warriors, so it is easy not
to meet one another, and not all the officers are acquainted with each other. The domain of
the prophet is immense; therefore many emirs rule in distant cities in Sennâr, in Kordofân,
and Darfur, and around Fashoda. It may be that this Smain, of whom you speak, is not at present
at the prophet's side."

Idris was nettled by the slighting tone with which Nur spoke of "this Smain," so he replied
with a shade of impatience:

"Smain is married to a first cousin of the Mahdi, and therefore Smain's children are relatives
of the prophet."

Nur el-Tadhil shrugged his shoulders.

"The Mahdi has many relatives and cannot remember all of them."

For some time they rode in silence; after which Idris again asked:

"How soon shall we arrive at Khartûm?"

"Before midnight," replied el-Tadhil, gazing at the stars which began to appear in the eastern
part of the heavens.

"Shall we at that late hour be able to obtain food and fodder? Since our last rest at noon
we have not eaten anything."

"You will pass this night with me and I shall feed you in my house, but to-morrow in Omdurmân
you will have to seek for food yourself, and I warn you in advance that this will not be an
easy matter."

"Why?"

"Because we have a war. The people for the past few years have not tilled the fields and have
lived solely upon meat; so when finally cattle were lacking, famine came. There is famine in
all the Sudân, and a sack of durra today costs more than a slave."

"Allah akbar!" exclaimed Idris with surprise, "I saw nevertheless herds of camels and cattle
on the steppes."

"They belong to the prophet, to the 'Noble,'* [* The Noble brothers and relatives of the Mahdi.]
and to the caliphs.--Yes--The Dongolese, from which tribe the Mahdi came and the Baggara, whose
leader is the chief caliph, Abdullahi, have still quite numerous herds, but for other tribes
it has become more and more difficult to live in the world."

Here Nur el-Tadhil patted his stomach, and said:

"In the service of the prophet I have a higher rank, more money, and a greater authority, but
I had a fuller stomach in the Khedive's service."

But, realizing that he might have said too much, after a while he added:

"But all this will change when the true faith conquers."

Idris, hearing these words, involuntarily thought that nevertheless in Fayûm, in the service
of the Englishmen, he had never suffered from hunger, and gains could be more easily secured;
so he was cast into a deep gloom.

After which he began to ask further:

"Are you going to transport us to-morrow to Omdurmân?"

"Yes. Khartûm by command of the prophet is to be abandoned and very few reside there. They
are razing the large buildings and conveying the bricks with the other booty to Omdurmân. The
prophet does not wish to live in a place polluted by unbelievers."

"I shall beat my forehead before him to-morrow, and he will command that I be supplied with
provisions and fodder."

"Ha! If in truth you belong to the Dongolese, then perhaps you might be admitted to his presence.
But know this, that his house is guarded day and night by a hundred men equipped with courbashes,
and these do not spare blows to those who crave to see the Mahdi without permission. Otherwise
the swarm would not give the holy man a moment of rest--Allah! I saw even Dongolese with bloody
welts on their backs--"

Idris with each moment was possessed by greater disillusionment.

"So the faithful do not see the prophet?" he asked.

"The faithful see him daily at the place of prayer where, kneeling on the sheep's hide, he
raises his hands to God, or when he instructs the swarm and strengthens them in the true faith.
But it is difficult to reach and speak with him, and whoever attains that happiness is envied
by all, for upon him flows the divine grace which wipes away his former sins."

A deep night fell and with it came a piercing chill. In the ranks resounded the snorting of
horses; the sudden change from the daily heat to cold was so strong that the hides of the steeds
began to reek, and the detachment rode as if in a mist. Stas, behind Idris, leaned towards
Nell and asked:

"Do you feel cold?"

"No," answered the little girl, "but no one will protect us now--"

And tears stifled her further words.

This time he did not find any comfort for her, for he himself was convinced that there was
no salvation for them. Now they rode over a region of wretchedness, famine, bestial cruelties,
and blood. They were like two poor little leaves in a storm which bore death and annihilation
not only to the heads of individuals, but to whole towns and entire tribes. What hand could
snatch from it and save two small, defenseless children?

The moon rolled high in the heaven and changed, as if into silvery feathers, the mimosa and
acacia twigs. In the dense jungles resounded here and there the shrill and, at the same time,
mockingly mirthful laugh of the hyenas, which in that gory region found far too many corpses.
From time to time the detachment conducting the caravan encountered other patrols and exchanged
with them the agreed countersign. They came to the hills on the river banks and through a long
pass reached the Nile. The people and the camels embarked upon wide and flat "dahabeahs," and
soon the heavy oars began with measured movements to break and ruffle the smooth river's depth,
strewn with starry diamonds.

After the lapse of half an hour, on the southern side, on which dahabeahs floated upon the
water, flashed lights which, as crafts approached them, changed into sheaves of red luster
lying on the water. Nur el-Tadhil shook Idris' arm, after which, stretching out his hand before
him, he said:

"Khartûm!"

XVI

They stopped at the city's limits in a house which formerly was the property of a rich Italian
merchant, and after his murder during the assault upon the city, had fallen to Tadhil at the
division of the spoils. The wives of the emir in quite a humane manner took charge of Nell
who was barely alive after the rough treatment, and, though in all Khartûm could be felt a
want of provisions, they found for the little "jan"* [* "Jan," an expression of endearment,
like "little lamb."] a few dried dates and a little rice with honey; after which they led her
upstairs and put her to bed. Stas, who passed the night among the camels and horses in the
courtyard, had to be content with one biscuit; on the other hand, he did not lack water, for
the fountain in the garden, by a strange chance, was not wrecked. Notwithstanding great weariness,
he could not sleep; first on account of scorpions creeping incessantly over the saddle-cloth
on which he lay, and again on account of a mortal dread that they would separate him from Nell,
and that he would not be able to watch over her personally. This uneasiness was evidently shared
by Saba, who scented about and from time to time howled, all of which enraged the soldiers.
Stas quieted him as well as he could from fear that some injury might be done to him. Fortunately
the giant mastiff aroused such admiration in the emir himself and in all the dervishes that
no one lifted a hand against him.

Idris also did not sleep. From the previous day he had felt unwell and, besides, after the
conversation with Nur el-Tadhil he lost many of his delusions, and gazed at the future as though
through a thick veil. He was glad that on the morrow they would be transported to Omdurmân,
which was separated from Khartûm only by the width of the White Nile; he had a hope that he
would find Smain there, but what further? During the journey everything had presented itself
to him somewhat more distinctly and far more splendidly. He sincerely believed in the prophet
and his heart was drawn all the more to him because both came from the same tribe. But in addition
he was, like almost every Arab, covetous and ambitious. He had dreamed that he would be loaded
with gold and made an emir at least; he had dreamed of military expeditions against the "Turks,"
of captured cities and spoils. Now, after what he had heard from el-Tadhil, he began to fear
whether in the presence of far greater events, all his acts would not fade into insignificance,
just as a drop of rain disappears in the sea. "Perhaps," he thought with bitterness, "nobody
will pay attention to what I have accomplished, and Smain will not even be pleased that I have
brought those children to him;" and he was gnawed by this thought. The morrow was to dispel
or confirm those fears; so he awaited it with impatience.

The sun rose at six o'clock, and the bustle among the dervishes began. Nur el-Tadhil soon appeared
and ordered them to prepare for the journey. He declared at the same time that they would go
to the ferry on foot, beside his horse. To Stas' great joy, Dinah led Nell from an upper floor;
after which they proceeded on the rampart, skirting the whole city, as far as the place at
which the ferry boats stopped. Nur el-Tadhil rode ahead on horseback. Stas escorted Nell by
the hand; after them came Idris, Gebhr, and Chamis, with Dinah and Saba, as well as thirty
of the emir's soldiers. The rest of the caravan remained in Khartûm.

Stas, gazing around, could not understand how a city so strongly fortified, and lying in a
fork formed by the White and Blue Niles, and therefore surrounded on three sides by water and
accessible only from the south, could fall. Only later did he learn from a Christian slave
that the river at that time had subsided and left a wide sandy strip, which facilitated access
to the ramparts. The garrison, losing hope of relief and reduced by hunger, could not repel
the assault of the infuriated savages, and the city was captured; after which a massacre of
the inhabitants took place. Traces of the battle, though a month had already elapsed since
the assault, could everywhere be seen along the ramparts; on the inside protruded the ruins
of razed buildings against which the first impetus of the victors had been directed and on
the outside the moat was full of corpses, which no one thought of burying. Before they reached
the ferry Stas counted over four hundred. They did not, however, infect the air as the Sudânese
sun dried them up like mummies; all had the hue of gray parchment, and were so much alike that
the bodies of the Europeans, Egyptians, and negroes could not be distinguished from each other.
Amid the corpses swarmed small gray lizards, which, at the approach of men, quickly hid under
those human remains and often in the mouths or between the dried-up ribs.

Stas walked with Nell in such a manner as to hide this horrible sight from her, and told her
to look in the direction of the city.

But from the side of the city many things transpired which struck the eyes and soul of the
little girl with terror. The sight of the "English" children, taken into captivity, and of
Saba led with a leash by Chamis attracted a throng, which as the procession proceeded to the
ferry increased with each moment. The throng after a certain time became so great that it was
necessary to halt. From all sides came threatening outcries. Frightfully tattooed faces leaned
over Stas and over Nell. Some of the savages burst out into laughter at the sight of them and
from joy slapped their hips with the palms of their hands; others cursed them; some roared
like wild beasts, displaying their white teeth and rolling their eyes; finally they began to
threaten and reach out towards them with knives. Nell, partly unconscious from fright, clung
to Stas, while he shielded her as well as he knew how, in the conviction that their last hour
was approaching. Fortunately this persistent molestation of the brutal swarm at last disgusted
even Nur el-Tadhil. By his command between ten and twenty soldiers surrounded the children,
while the others began, without mercy, to scourge the howling mob with courbashes. The concourse
dispersed hurriedly, but on the other hand a mob began to gather behind the detachment and
amid wild shrieks accompanied it to the boat.

The children breathed more freely during the passage over the river. Stas comforted Nell with
the statement that when the dervishes became accustomed to the sight of them they would cease
their threats, and he assured her that Smain would protect and defend both of them, and particularly
her, for if any evil should befall them he would not have any one to exchange for his children.
This was the truth, but the little girl was so terror-stricken by the previous assaults that,
having seized Stas' hand, she did not want to let go of it for a moment, repeating continually,
as if in a fever: "I am afraid! I am afraid!" He with his whole soul wished to get as soon
as possible into the hands of Smain, who knew them of old, and who in Port Said had displayed
great friendship towards them, or at least had pretended to display it. At any rate he was
not so wild as the other Dongolese of the Sudân, and captivity in his house would be more endurable.

The only concern now was whether they would find him in Omdurmân. Of this Idris spoke with
Nur el-Tadhil, who at last recollected that a year before, while tarrying by the order of the
caliph Abdullahi in Kordofân, far from Khartûm, he had heard of a certain Smain, who taught
the dervishes how to fire from the cannons captured from the Egyptians, and afterwards became
a slave hunter. Nur suggested to Idris the following method of finding him:

"At noon, when you hear the sounds of the umbajas,* [* Umbajas--big trumpets of ivory tusk.]
be with the children at the place of prayer, to which the Mahdi repairs daily to edify the
faithful with an example of piety and to fortify them in the faith. There besides the sacred
person of the Mahdi you will behold all the 'Nobles' and also the three caliphs as well as
the pashas and emirs; among the emirs you may find Smain."

"But what am I to do and where shall I stay until the time of the afternoon prayer?"

"You will remain with my soldiers."

"And will you, Nur el-Tadhil, leave us?"

"I am going for orders to the caliph Abdullahi."

"Is he the greatest of caliphs? I come from far and though the names of the commanders have
reached my ears, nevertheless you may instruct me more definitely about them."

"Abdullahi my commander is the Mahdi's sword."

"May Allah make him the son of victory."

For some time the boat floated in silence. There could be heard only the grating of the oars
on the boat's edges and once in a while a splash of water by a crocodile struck in the tail.
Many of these ugly reptiles had swam down from the south to Khartûm, where they found an abundance
of food, for the river teemed with corpses, not only of the people who were slaughtered after
the capture of the city, but also of those who died of diseases which raged amidst the Mahdists
and particularly among the slaves. The commands of the caliphs prohibited, indeed, "the contamination
of the water," but they were not heeded, and the bodies which the crocodiles did not devour
floated with the water, face downward, to the Sixth Cataract and even as far as Beber.

But Idris thought of something else, and after a while said:

"This morning we did not get anything to eat. I do not know whether we can hold out from hunger
until the hour of prayer, and who will feed us later?"

"You are not a slave," replied Tadhil, "and can go to the market-place where merchants display
their supplies. There you can obtain dried meat and sometimes dochnu (millet), but for a high
price; as I told you, famine reigns in Omdurmân."

"But in the meantime wicked people will seize and kill those children."

"The soldiers will protect them, and if you give money to any one of them, he will willingly
go for provisions."

This advice did not please Idris who had a greater desire to take money than to give it to
any one, but before he was able to make reply the boat touched the bank.

To the children Omdurmân appeared different from Khartûm. In the latter place there were houses
of several stories built of brick and stone; there was a "mudirya," that is, a Governor's palace
in which the heroic Gordon had perished; there were a church, a hospital, missionary buildings,
an arsenal, great barracks for the troops and a large number of greater and smaller gardens
with magnificent tropical plants. Omdurmân, on the other hand, seemed rather a great encampment
of savages. The fort which stood on the northern side of the settlement had been razed by command
of Gordon. As a whole, as far as the eye could reach the city consisted of circular conical
huts of dochnu straw. Narrow, thorny little fences separated these huts from each other and
from the streets. Here and there could be seen tents, evidently captured from the Egyptians.
Elsewhere a few palm mats under a piece of dirty linen stretched upon bamboo constituted the
entire residence. The population sought shelter under the roofs during rain or exceptional
heat; for the rest they passed their time, built fires, cooked food, lived, and died out-of-doors.
So the streets were so crowded that in places the detachment with difficulty forced its way
through the multitude. Formerly Omdurmân was a wretched village; at present, counting the ives,
over two hundred thousand people were huddled in it. Even the Mahdi and his caliphs were perturbed
by this vast concourse, which was threatened with famine and disease. They continually despatched
to the north expeditions to subjugate localities and cities, loyal yet to the Egyptian Government.

At the sight of the white children here also resounded unfriendly cries, but at least the rabble
did not threaten with death. It may be that they did not dare to, being so close to the prophet's
side, and perhaps because they were more accustomed to the sight of prisoners who were all
transported to Omdurmân immediately after the capture of Khartûm. Stas and Nell, however, saw
hell on earth. They saw Europeans and Egyptians lashed with courbashes until they bled; hungry,
thirsty, bending under burdens which they were commanded to carry or under buckets of water.
They saw European women and children, who were reared in affluence, at present begging for
a handful of durra or a shred of meat; covered with rags, emaciated, resembling specters, with
faces swarthy from want, on which dismay and despair had settled, and with a bewildered stare.
They saw how the savages burst into laughter at the sight of these unfortunates; how they pushed
and beat them. On all the streets and alleyways there were not lacking sights from which the
eyes turned away with horror and aversion. In Omdurmân, dysentery and typhoid fever, and, above
all, small-pox raged in a virulent form. The sick, covered with sores, lay at the entrances
of the hovels, infecting the air. The prisoners carried, wrapped in linen, the bodies of the
newly dead to bury them in the sand beyond the city, where the real charge of the funeral was
assumed by hyenas. Above the city hovered flocks of vultures from whose wings fell melancholy
shadows upon the illuminated sand. Stas, witnessing all this, thought that the best for him
and Nell would be to die as soon as possible.

Nevertheless, in this sea of human wretchedness and malice there bloomed at times compassion,
as a pale flower blooms in a putrid marsh. In Omdurmân there were a few Greeks and Copts whom
the Mahdi had spared because he needed them. These not only walked about freely, but engaged
in trade and various affairs, and some, especially those who pretended to change their faith,
were even officers of the Mahdi, and this gave them considerable importance among the wild
dervishes. One of these Greeks stopped the detachment and began to question the children as
to how they happened to be there. Learning with amazement that they had just arrived, and that
they had been kidnapped from far-away Fayûm, he promised to speak about them to the Mahdi and
to inquire about them in the future. In the meantime he nodded his head compassionately at
Nell and gave to each a few handfuls of dried wild figs and a silver dollar with an image of
Maria Theresa. After which he admonished the soldiers not to dare to do any harm to the little
girl, and he left, repeating in English: "Poor little bird!"

XVII

Through tortuous little streets they finally arrived at the market-place which was situated
in the center of the city. On the way they saw many men with a hand or foot cut off. They were
thieves or transgressors who had concealed booty. The punishment meted by the caliphs for disobedience
or violation of the laws promulgated by the prophet was horrible, and even for a trivial offense,
such as smoking tobacco, the delinquent was whipped with courbashes until he bled or became
unconscious. But the caliphs themselves observed these commands only seemingly; at home they
indulged in everything, so that the penalties fell upon the poor, who at one blow were despoiled
of all their goods. Afterwards there remained for them nothing to do but beg; and as in Omdurmân
there was a scarcity of provisions they died of starvation.

A large number of beggars also swarmed around the provision stalls. The first object, however,
which attracted the attention of the children was a human head fastened on a high bamboo set
up in the center of the market-place. The face of this head was dried up and almost black,
while the hair on the skull and the chin was as white as milk. One of the soldiers explained
to Idris that that was Gordon's head. Stas, when he heard this, was seized by fathomless sorrow,
indignation, and a burning desire for revenge; at the same time terror froze the blood in his
veins. Thus had perished that hero, that knight without fear and without reproach; a man, just
and kind, who was loved even in the Sudân. And the English people had not come in time to his
aid, and later retired, leaving his remains without a Christian burial, to be thus dishonored!
Stas at that moment lost his faith in the English people. Heretofore he naïvely believed that
England, for an injury to one of her citizens, was always ready to declare war against the
whole world. At the bottom of his soul there had lain a hope that in behalf of Rawlinson's
daughter, after the unsuccessful pursuit, formidable English hosts would be set in motion even
as far as Khartûm and farther. Now he became convinced that Khartûm and that whole region was
in the hands of the Mahdi, and that the Egyptian Government and England were thinking rather
of preserving Egypt from further conquests than of delivering the European prisoners from captivity.

He understood that he and Nell had fallen into an abyss from which there was no escape, and
these thoughts, linked with the horrors which he witnessed on the streets of Omdurmân, disheartened
him completely. His customary energy gave way to total passive submission to fate and a dread
of the future. In the meantime he began aimlessly to gaze about the market-place and at the
stalls at which Idris was bargaining for provisions. The hucksters, mainly Sudânese women and
negresses, sold jubhas here, that is, white linen gowns, pieced together with many colored
patches, acacia gum, hollow gourds, glass beads, sulphur and all kinds of mats. There were
a few stalls with provisions and around all of them the throng pressed. The Mahdists bought
at high prices principally dried strips of meat of domestic animals; likewise of buffaloes,
antelopes and giraffes. Dates, figs, manioc, and durra were totally lacking. They sold here
and there water and honey of wild bees, and grains of dochnu soaked in a decoction of tamarind
fruit. Idris fell into despair, for it appeared that in view of the prevailing market-prices
he would soon exhaust all the money he had received from Fatma Smain for living expenses and
afterwards would, in all probability, have to beg. His only hope now was in Smain, and strangely
enough Stas also relied solely upon Smain's assistance.

After a lapse of an hour Nur el-Tadhil returned from the caliph Abdullahi. Evidently he had
met with some kind of disagreeable mishap there, for he returned in a bad humor. So when Idris
asked him if he had learned anything about Smain, he replied testily:

"Fool, do you think that the caliph and I have nothing better to do than to seek Smain for you?"

"Well, what are you going to do with me?"

"Do what you please. I gave you a night's lodging in my house and a few words of good advice,
and now I do not want to know anything more about you."

"That is well, but where shall I find shelter?"

"It is all the same to me."

Saying this he took the soldiers and went away. With great difficulty Idris prevailed upon
him to send to the market-place the camels and the rest of the caravan, including those Arabs
who had joined it between Assuan and Wâdi Haifa. These people did not come until the afternoon,
and it appeared that none of them knew what they were going to do. The two Bedouins began to
quarrel with Idris and Gebhr, claiming that they had promised them an entirely different reception
and that they had cheated them. After a long dispute and much deliberation they finally decided
to erect at the outskirts of the city huts of dochnu boughs and reeds as shelter during the
night, and for the rest to depend upon the will of providence, and wait.

After the erection of the huts, which employment does not require much time from Sudânese and
negroes, all, excepting Chamis, who was to prepare the supper, repaired to the place of public
prayer. It was easy for them to find it, as the swarm of all Omdurmân was bound thither. The
place was spacious, encircled partly by a thorny fence and partly by a clay enclosure which
was being built. In the center stood a wooden platform. The prophet ascended it whenever he
desired to instruct the people. In front of the platform were spread upon the ground sheep
hides for the Mahdi, the caliphs, and eminent sheiks. Planted at the sides were the flags of
emirs, which fluttered in the air, displaying all colors and looking like great flowers. The
four sides were surrounded by the compact ranks of dervishes. Around could be seen a bold,
numberless forest of spears, with which almost all the warriors were armed.

It was real good fortune for Idris and Gebhr, and for the other members of the caravan, that
they were taken for a retinue of one of the emirs. For that reason they could press forward
to the first rows of the assembled throng. The arrival of the Mahdi was announced by the beautiful
and solemn notes of umbajas, but when he appeared there resounded the shrill notes of fifes,
the beating of drums, the rattle of stones shaken in empty gourds, and whistling on elephants'
teeth, all of which combined created an infernal din. The swarm was swept by an indescribable
fervor. Some threw themselves on their knees; others shouted with all their strength:

"Oh! Messenger of God!" "Oh! Victorious!" "Oh! Merciful!" "Oh! Gracious!" This continued until
the Mahdi entered the pulpit. Then a dead stillness fell while he raised his hands, placed
his big fingers to his ears, and for some time prayed.

The children did not stand far away, and could see him well. He was a middle-aged man, prodigiously
obese as though bloated, and almost black. Stas, who had an unusually keen sight, perceived
that his face was tattooed. In one ear he wore a big ivory ring. He was dressed in a white
jubha and had a white cap on his head. His feet were bare, as on mounting the platform he shook
off red half-boots and left them on the sheep's hide on which he was afterwards to pray. There
was not the least luxury in his clothing. Only at times the wind carried a strong sandal* [*
From sandal wood, from which in the East a fragrant oil is derived.] scent which the faithful
present inhaled eagerly through their nostrils; at the same time they rolled their eyes from
joy. On the whole Stas had pictured differently this terrible prophet, plunderer, and murderer
of so many thousand people, and looking now at the fat face with its mild look, with eyes suffused
with tears, and with a smile, as though grown to those lips, he could not overcome his astonishment.
He thought that such a man ought to bear on his shoulders the head of a hyena or a crocodile,
and instead he saw before him a chubby-faced gourd, resembling drawings of a full moon.

But the prophet began his instruction. His deep and resonant voice could be heard perfectly
all over the place, so that his words reached the ears of all the faithful. He first spoke
of the punishments which God meted out to those who disobey the commands of the Mahdi, and
hide booty, get intoxicated upon merissa, spare the enemy in battles, and smoke tobacco. On
account of these crimes Allah sends upon the sinners famine and that disease which changes
the face into a honey-comb (small-pox). Temporal life is like a leaky leather bottle. Riches
and pleasure are absorbed in the sand which buries the dead. Only faith is like a cow which
gives sweet milk. But paradise will open only for the victorious. Whoever vanquishes the enemy
wins for himself salvation. Whoever dies for the faith will rise from the dead for eternity.
Happy, a hundredfold more happy are those who already have fallen.

"We want to die for the faith!" answered the swarm in one tumultuous shout.

And for a while an infernal uproar again prevailed. The umbajas and drums sounded. The warriors
struck sword against sword, spear against spear. The martial ardor spread like a flame. Some
cried: "The faith is victorious!" Others: "To paradise through death!" Stas now understood
why the Egyptian army could not cope with this wild host.

When the hubbub had somewhat subsided, the prophet resumed his address. He told them of his
visions and of the mission which he had received from God. Allah commanded him to purify the
faith and spread it over the entire world. Whoever does not acknowledge him as the Mahdi, the
Redeemer, is condemned to damnation. The end of the world is already near, but before that
time it is the duty of the faithful to conquer Egypt, Mecca, and all those regions beyond the
seas where the gentiles dwell. Such is the divine will which nothing can change. A great deal
of blood will flow yet; many warriors will not return to their wives and children under their
tents, but the happiness of those who fall no human tongue can describe.

After which he stretched out his arms towards the assembled throng and concluded thus:

"Therefore I, the Redeemer and servant of God, bless this holy war and you warriors. I bless
your toils, wounds, death; I bless victory, and weep over you like a father who has conceived
an affection for you."

And he burst into a flood of tears. When he descended from the pulpit a roar and a clamor resounded.
Weeping became general. Below, the two caliphs Abdullahi and Ali Uled Helu took the prophet
under the arms and escorted him to the sheep hide on which he knelt. During this brief moment
Idris asked Stas feverishly whether Smain was not among the emirs.

"No!" replied the boy, who vainly sought the familiar face with his eyes. "I do not see him
anywhere. Perhaps he fell at the capture of Khartûm."

The prayers lasted long. During these the Mahdi threw his arms and legs about like a buffoon
or raised his eyes in rapture, repeating "Lo! It is he!" "Lo! It is he!" and the sun began
to decline towards the west, when he rose and left for his home. The children now could be
convinced with what reverence the dervishes surrounded their prophet, for crowds eagerly followed
him and scratched up the places which his feet touched. They even quarreled and came to blows
for they believed that such earth protected the healthy and healed the sick.

The place of prayer was vacated gradually. Idris himself did not know what to do and was about
to return with the children and his whole party to the huts and to Chamis for the night, when
unexpectedly there stood before them that same Greek who in the morning had given Stas and
Nell each a dollar and a handful of wild figs.

"I spoke with the Mahdi about you," he said in Arabian, "and the prophet desires to see you."

"Thanks to Allah and to you, sir," exclaimed Idris. "Shall we find Smain at the prophet's side."

"Smain is in Fashoda," answered the Greek.

After which he addressed Stas in the English language.

"It may be that the prophet will take you under his protection as I endeavored to persuade
him to do. I told him that the fame of his mercy would then spread among all the white nations.
Here terrible things are taking place and without his protection you will perish from starvation
and want of comforts, from sickness or at the hands of madmen. But you must reconcile him and
that depends upon you."

"What am I to do?" Stas asked.

"In the first place, when you appear before him throw yourself upon your knees, and if he should
tender his hand, kiss it with reverence and beseech him to take you two under his wings."

Here the Greek broke off and asked:

"Do any of these men understand English?"

"No. Idris and Gebhr understand only a few simple words and the others not even that."

"That is well. So listen further, for it is necessary to anticipate everything. Now the Mahdi
will in all probability ask you whether you are ready to accept his faith. Answer at once that
you are and that at the sight of him, from the first glance of the eye an unknown light of
grace flowed upon you. Remember, 'an unknown light of grace.' That will flatter him and he
will enroll you among his muzalems, that is, among his personal servants. You will then enjoy
plenty and all the comforts which will shield you from sickness. If you should act otherwise
you would endanger yourself, that poor little creature, and even me, who wishes your good.
Do you understand?"

Stas set his teeth and did not reply, but his face was icy and his eyes flashed up sullenly.
Seeing which the Greek continued thus:

"I know, my boy, that this is a disagreeable matter, but it cannot be helped. All of those
who were saved after the massacre in Khartûm accepted the Mahdi's doctrines. Only a few Catholic
missionaries and nuns did not assent to it, but that is a different matter. The Koran prohibits
the slaughter of priests, so though their fate is horrible, they are not at least threatened
with death. For the secular people, however, there was no other salvation. I repeat, they all
accepted Mohammedism; the Germans, Italians, Englishmen, Copts, Greeks--I myself."

And here, though Stas had assured him that no one in that crowd understood English, he nevertheless
lowered his voice.

"Besides, I need not tell you that this is no denial of faith, no treason, no apostasy. In
his soul every one remained what he was and God saw it. Before superior force it is necessary
to bend, though seemingly. It is the duty of man to preserve life and it would be madness,
and even a sin, to jeopardize it--for what? For appearances, for a few words, which at the
same time you may disavow in your soul? And remember that you hold in your hands not only your
life but the life of your little companion which it is not permissible for you to dispose of.
In truth, I can guarantee to you if ever God saves you from these hands then you will not have
anything to reproach yourself with, nor will any one find fault with you, as this is the case
with all of us."

The Greek, speaking in this manner, perhaps deceived his own conscience, but Stas' silence
deceived him also for in the end he mistook it for fear. He determined therefore to give the
boy courage.

"These are the houses of the Mahdi," he said. "He prefers to live in the wooden sheds of Omdurmân
rather than in Khartûm, though there he could occupy Gordon's palace. Well then, bravely! Don't
lose your head! To the question reply firmly. They prize courage here. Also do not imagine
that the Mahdi will at once roar at you like a lion! No! He always smiles, even when contemplating
nothing good."

And saying this he began to shout at the crowd standing in front of the house to make way for
the prophet's "guests."

XVIII

When they entered the room, the Mahdi lay on a soft cot, surrounded by his wives, two of whom
fanned him with great ostrich feathers and the other two lightly scratched the soles of his
feet. Besides his wives, there were present only the caliph Abdullahi and the sheref caliph,
as the third, Ali Uled Helu, was despatching at that time troops to the north, particularly
to Beber and Abu Hâmed, which already had been captured by the dervishes. At sight of the arrivals
the prophet dismissed his wives and sat up on the cot. Idris, Gebhr, and the two Bedouins fell
on their faces and afterwards knelt with hands crossed on their breasts. The Greek beckoned
to Stas to do the same, but the boy, pretending not to see the gesture, only bowed and remained
standing erect. His face was pale, but his eyes shone strongly and from his whole posture and
head, haughtily upraised, from his tightly compressed lips it could easily be seen that something
had taken an ascendancy over him, that uncertainty and fear had passed away, that he had adopted
an inflexible resolution from which he would not recede for anything. The Greek evidently understood
this, as great uneasiness was reflected on his features. The Mahdi observed both children with
a fleeting glance, brightened his fat face with his customary smile, after which he first addressed
Idris and Gebhr:

"You came from the distant north," he said.

Idris struck the ground with his forehead.

"Yes, oh Mahdi! We belong to the tribe of Dongola; therefore we abandoned our homes in Fayûm
in order to kneel at your blessed feet."

"I beheld you in the desert. That was a terrible journey but I sent an angel to guard and shield
you from death at the hands of the infidels. You did not see this, but he watched over you."

"Thanks to thee, Redeemer."

"And you brought those children to Smain to exchange them for his own, that the Turks imprisoned
together with Fatma in Port Said."

"Thee we desired to serve."

"Whoever serves me serves his own salvation; therefore you have opened for yourselves the path
to paradise. Fatma is my relative. But verily I say unto you that when we subjugate the whole
of Egypt, then my relative and her posterity will anyway regain liberty."

"And therefore do with these children whatever thou desirest--oh blessed one."

The Mahdi closed his eyelids, after which he opened them, smiling kindly, and nodded at Stas.

"Approach, boy."

Stas advanced a few paces with an energetic, as if soldierly, stride; he bowed a second time
after which he straightened as a chord and, looking straight into the Mahdi's eyes, waited.

"Are you delighted that you came to me?" the Mahdi asked.

"No, prophet. We were abducted in spite of our wills from our parents."

This plain answer created a certain sensation upon the ruler accustomed to flattery, and upon
those present. Caliph Abdullahi frowned, the Greek gnawed his mustache, and began to wring
his hands. The Mahdi, however, did not cease to smile.

"But," he said, "you are at the fountain of truth. Do you want to drink at that fountain?"

A moment of silence followed; so the Mahdi, thinking the boy did not understand the question,
repeated it more plainly.

"Do you desire to accept my doctrines?"

To this Stas imperceptibly made a sign of the holy cross with his hand which he held at his
breast, as though he was about to leap from a sinking ship into a watery chaos.

"Prophet," he said, "your doctrines I do not know; therefore if I accepted them, I would do
it out of fear like a coward and a base man. Are you anxious that your faith should be professed
by cowards and base people?"

And speaking thus he looked steadfastly in the eyes of the Mahdi. It became so quiet that only
the buzz of flies could be heard. But at the same time something extraordinary had happened.
The Mahdi became confused, and for the nonce did not know what reply to make. The smile vanished
from his face, on which was reflected perplexity and displeasure. He stretched out his hand,
took hold of the gourd, filled it with water and honey, and began to drink, but obviously only
to gain time and to conceal his confusion.

And the brave boy, a worthy descendant of the defenders of Christianity, of the true blood
of the victors at Khoczim and Vienna, stood with upraised head, awaiting his doom. On his emaciated
cheeks, tanned by the desert winds, bloomed bright blushes, his eyes glittered, and his body
quivered with the thrill of ardor. "All others," he soliloquized, "accepted his doctrines,
but I have denied neither my faith nor my soul." And fear before what might and was to follow
at that moment was subdued in his heart, and joy and pride overflowed it.

In the meantime the Mahdi replaced the gourd and asked:

"So, you reject my doctrines?"

"I am a Christian like my father."

"Whoever closes his eyes to the voice of God," said the Mahdi slowly in a changed voice, "is
only fuel for the flames."

At this the caliph Abdullahi, notorious for his ferocity and cruelty, displayed his white teeth
like a savage animal and spoke out:

"The speech of this boy is insolent; therefore punish him, lord, or permit me to punish him."

"It has happened!" Stas thought.

But the Mahdi always desired that the fame of his mercy should spread not only among the dervishes
but over the whole world; therefore he thought that a too severe sentence, particularly upon
a small boy, might injure that fame.

For a while he fingered the rosary beads and meditated, and afterwards said:

"No. These children were abducted for Smain; so, though I do not want to enter into any negotiations
with the infidels, it is necessary to send them to Smain. Such is my will."

"It shall be obeyed," answered the caliph.

But the Mahdi pointed to Idris, Gebhr, and the Bedouins and said:

"Reward these men for me, oh Abdullahi, for they made a long and dangerous journey to serve
God and me."

After which he nodded in sign that the audience was ended and at the same time ordered the
Greek to leave also. The latter, when they found themselves in the darkness on the place of
prayer, seized Stas' arm and began to shake it with anger and despair.

"Accursed! You have sealed the doom of that innocent child," he said, pointing at Nell. "You
have ruined yourself and perhaps me."

"I could not do otherwise," answered Stas.

"You could not? Know that you are condemned to a journey a hundredfold worse than the first.
And that is death,--do you understand? In Fashoda the fever will kill you in the course of
a week. The Mahdi knew why he sent you to Smain."

"In Omdurmân we also would perish."

"That is not true! You would not have perished in the house of the Mahdi, in plenty and comfort.
And he was ready to take you under his wings. I know that he was. You also repaid me nicely
for interceding for you. But do what you wish, Abdullahi will despatch the camel-post to Fashoda
in about a week and during that time do whatever you please! You will not see me any more!"

Saying this he went away, but after a while returned. He, like all Greeks, was loquacious,
and it was necessary for him to tell everything he had to say. He wanted to pour upon Stas'
head all the bile which had accumulated within him. He was not cruel and did not possess a
bad heart; he desired, however, that the boy should understand more thoroughly the awful responsibility
which he had assumed in not heeding his advice and warnings.

"Who would have prevented you from remaining a Christian in your soul?" he said. "Do you think
that I am not one? But I am not a fool. You on the other hand preferred to make a parade of
your false heroism. Heretofore I have rendered great services to the white prisoners, but now
I shall not be able to aid them for the Mahdi has become incensed at me. All will perish. And
your little companion in misfortune also: you have killed her! In Fashoda even adult Europeans
die of the fever like flies, and what of such a child? And if they order you to go on foot
beside the horses and camels, she will fall the first day. You did all this. Enjoy yourself
now--you Christian!"

And he left them while they turned from the place of prayer towards the huts. They walked long,
as the city was spread over an immense space. Nell, worn out by fatigue, hunger, fright, and
the horrible impressions of the whole day, began to lag. Idris and Gebhr urged her to walk
faster. But after a time her limbs became entirely numb. Then Stas, without reflection, took
her in his arms and carried her. On the way he wanted to speak to her; he wanted to justify
himself, but ideas were torpid, as if they were dead in his mind; so he only repeated in a
circle, "Nell! Nell! Nell!" and he clasped her to his bosom, not being able to say anything
more. After a few score paces Nell fell asleep in his arms from exhaustion; so he walked in
silence amid the quiet of the slumbering little streets, interrupted only by the conversation
of Idris and Gebhr, whose hearts overflowed with joy. This was fortunate for Stas, as otherwise
they would have punished him for his insolent reply to the Mahdi. They were, however, so occupied
with what they had seen that they could not think of anything else.

"I felt sick," said Idris, "but the sight of the prophet healed me."

"He is like a palm in the desert, and like cool water on a scorching day, and his words are
like ripe dates," answered Gebhr.

"Nur el-Tadhil lied when he said that he would not permit us to be admitted to his presence.
He admitted us, blessed us, and ordered Abdullahi to lavish gifts upon us."

"Who will munificently enrich us, for the wish of the Mahdi is sacred."

"Bismillah! May it be as you say!" spoke out one of the Bedouins.

And Gebhr began to dream of whole herds of camels, horned cattle, and bags full of piastres.

From these dreams he was awakened by Idris who, pointing at Stas carrying the sleeping girl, asked:

"What shall we do with that hornet and that fly?"

"Ha! Smain ought to reward us for them, separately."

"Since the prophet says that he will not permit any negotiations with the infidels, Smain will
have no interest in them."

"In such case I regret that they did not get into the hands of the caliph, who would have taught
that whelp what it is to bark against the truth and the elect of the Lord."

"The Mahdi is merciful," answered Idris.

After which he pondered for a while and said:

"Nevertheless, Smain having both in his hands will be certain that neither the Turks nor the
English people will kill his children and Fatma."

"So he may reward us?"

"Yes. Let Abdullahi's post take them to Fashoda. A weight will fall off our heads, and when
Smain returns here we will demand recompense from him."

"You say then that we will remain in Omdurmân?"

"Allah! Have you not had enough in the journey from Fayûm to Khartûm? The time for rest has come."

The huts were now not far off. Stas, however, slackened his pace for his strength began to
wane. Nell, though light, seemed heavier and heavier. The Sudânese, who were anxious to go
to sleep, shouted at him to hurry and afterwards drove him on, striking him on the head with
their fists. Gebhr even pricked him painfully in the shoulder with a knife. The boy endured
all this in silence, protecting above all his little sister, and not until one of the Bedouins
shoved him so that he almost fell, did he say to them through his set teeth:

"We are to arrive at Fashoda alive."

And these words restrained the Arabs, for they feared to violate the commands of the Mahdi.
A yet more effective restraint, however, was the fact that Idris suddenly became so dizzy that
he had to lean on Gebhr's arm. After an interval the dizziness passed away, but the Sudânese
became frightened and said:

"Allah! Something ails me. Has not some sickness taken hold of me?"

"You have seen the Mahdi, so you will not fall sick," answered Gebhr.

They finally reached the huts. Stas, hurrying with the remnants of his strength, delivered
sleeping Nell to the hands of old Dinah, who, though unwell also, nevertheless made a comfortable
bed for her little lady. The Sudânese and the Bedouins, swallowing a few strips of raw meat,
flung themselves, like logs, on the saddle-cloth. Stas was not given anything to eat, but old
Dinah shoved into his hand a fistful of soaked durra, a certain amount of which she had stolen
from the camels. But he was not in the mood for eating or sleeping, for the load which weighed
on his shoulders was in truth too heavy. He felt that in rejecting the favor of the Mahdi,
for which it was necessary to pay with denial of faith and soul, he had acted as he should
have done; he felt that his father would have been proud and happy at his conduct, but at the
same time he thought that he had caused the destruction of Nell, his companion in misfortune,
his little beloved sister, for whom he would willingly have sacrificed his last drop of blood.

So when all had fallen asleep he burst into a flood of tears, and, lying on a piece of saddle-cloth,
he wept long, like the child which, after all, he still was.

XIX

The visit to the Mahdi and the interview with him evidently did not heal Idris, as during the
night he grew worse and in the morning became unconscious. Chamis, Gebhr, and the two Bedouins
were summoned to the caliph who detained them some hours and praised their courage. But they
returned in the worst humor and with rage in their souls for they had expected the Lord knows
what rewards, and in the meantime Abdullahi gave each one an Egyptian pound* [*  About five
dollars.--Translator's note.] and a horse.

The Bedouins began a quarrel with Gebhr which almost resulted in a fight; in the end they announced
that they would ride together with the camel-post to Fashoda to demand payment from Smain.
They were joined by Chamis who expected that the patronage of Smain would be more beneficial
to him than a sojourn in Omdurmân.

For the children a week of hunger and misery began, for Gebhr did not think of feeding them.
Fortunately Stas had the two dollars with the effigy of Maria Theresa, which he got from the
Greek; so he went to the city to buy dates and rice. The Sudânese did not oppose this trip
as they knew that he could not escape from Omdurmân and that under no circumstances would he
desert the little "bint." This experience did not pass without some adventures, however, for
the sight of a boy in European dress buying provisions at the market-place, again attracted
a crowd of semi-savage dervishes, who received him with laughter and yells. Fortunately many
knew that he had been at the Mahdi's the previous day, and they restrained those who wanted
to assault him. Only children threw sand and stones at him, but he paid no attention to them.

At the market-place the prices were too high. Stas could not obtain any dates at all and a
considerable part of the rice was taken away from him by Gebhr for "his sick brother." The
boy resisted with all his strength, in consequence of which a scuffle and fight ensued, in
which the really weaker one came out with numerous contusions and bruises. In addition the
cruelty of Chamis became manifest. The latter evinced an attachment for Saba and fed him with
raw meat; on the other hand, at the distress of the children, whom he knew of old and who had
always been kind to him, he looked with the utmost indifference, and when Stas addressed him
with a request that he should at least give Nell a morsel of food, he replied, laughing:

"Go and beg."

And it finally came to the pass that Stas during the following days, desiring to save Nell
from death by starvation, begged. Nor was he always unsuccessful. At times some former soldier
or officer of the Egyptian Khedive gave him a few piastres or a few dried figs, and promised
to aid him on the following day. Once he happened to meet a missionary and a sister of charity,
who, hearing his story, bemoaned the fate of both children, and though they themselves were
wasted with hunger, shared with him everything which they had. They also promised to visit
them in the huts and did actually come the next day in the hope that they might succeed in
taking the children with them until the time of the departure of the post. But Gebhr with Chamis
drove them away with courbashes. On the following day Stas met them again and received from
them a little measure of rice together with two quinine powders, which the missionary instructed
him to save most carefully in the expectation that in Fashoda fever inevitably awaited both.

"You will ride now," he said, "alongside of the dense floating masses in the White Nile or
the so-called 'sudds'. The river, not being able to flow freely across the barriers composed
of vegetation and weeds which the current of the water carries and deposits in the more shallow
places, forms there extensive and infectious swamps, amid which the fever does not spare even
the negroes. Beware particularly of sleeping on the bare ground without a fire."

"We already wish to die," answered Stas, almost with a moan.

At this the missionary raised his haggard face and for a while prayed; after which he made
the sign of the cross over the boy and said:

"Trust in God. You did not deny Him; so His mercy and care will be over you."

Stas tried not only to beg, but to work. A certain day, seeing a crowd of men laboring at the
place of prayer, he joined them, and began to carry clay for the palisade with which the place
was to be surrounded. They jeered at and jostled him, but at evening the old sheik, who superintended
the work, gave him twelve dates. Stas was immensely overjoyed at this compensation, for dates
with rice formed the only wholesome nourishment for Nell and became more and more difficult
to obtain in Omdurmân.

So he brought them with pride to his little sister, to whom he gave everything which he could
secure; he sustained himself for a week almost exclusively upon durra taken from the camels.
Nell was greatly delighted at the sight of her favorite fruit but wanted him to share it with
her. So, tiptoeing, she placed her hands on his shoulders, and turning up her head, began to
gaze into his eyes and plead:

"Stas! Eat a half, eat--"

To this he replied:

"I have already eaten. I have eaten. I have eaten my fill."

And he smiled, but immediately began to bite his lips in order not to weep, as he really was
hungry. He promised himself that the following day he would go again and earn some more; but
it happened otherwise. In the morning a muzalem from Abdullahi came with the announcement that
the camel-post was to leave at night for Fashoda, and with the caliph's command that Idris,
Gebhr, Chamis, and the two Bedouins should prepare to go with the children. This command amazed
and aroused the indignation of Gebhr; so he declared that he would not go as his brother was
sick and there was no one to attend to him, and even if he were well, both had decided to remain
in Omdurmân.

But the muzalem replied:

"The Mahdi has only one will, and Abdullahi, his caliph and my master, never alters commands.
Your brother can be attended by a slave, while you will depart for Fashoda."

"Then I shall go and inform him that I will not depart."

"To the caliph are admitted only those whom he himself desires to see. And if you without permission,
and through violence, should force yourself into his presence, I will lead you to the gallows."

"Allah akbar! Then tell me plainly that I am a slave!"

"Be silent and obey orders!" answered the muzalem.

The Sudânese had seen in Omdurmân gallows breaking under the weight of hanging men. By order
of the ferocious Abdullahi these gallows were daily decorated with new bodies. Gebhr became
terror-stricken. That which the muzalem told him, that the Mahdi commanded but once, was reiterated
by all the dervishes. There was therefore no help; it was necessary to ride.

"I shall see Idris no more!" thought Gebhr.

In his tigerish heart was concealed a sort of attachment for his older brother, so that at
the thought that he would have to leave him in sickness he was seized by despair. In vain did
Chamis and the Bedouins represent to him that they might fare better in Fashoda than in Omdurmân,
and that Smain in all probability would reward them more bountifully than the caliph had done.
No words could assuage Gebhr's grief and rage, and the rage rebounded mainly upon Stas.

It was indeed a day of martyrdom for the boy. He was not permitted to go to the market-place,
so he could not earn anything or beg, and was compelled to work as a slave at the pack-saddles,
which were being prepared for the journey. This became a more difficult matter as from hunger
and torture he weakened very much. He was certain that he would die on the road; if not under
Gebhr's courbash, then from exhaustion.

Fortunately the Greek, who had a good heart, came in at the evening to visit the children and
to bid them farewell, and at the same time to provide for them on the way. He brought a few
quinine powders, and besides these a few glass beads and a little food. Finally, learning of
Idris' sickness, he turned to Gebhr, Chamis, and the Bedouins.

"Know this," he said. "I come here by the Mahdi's command."

And when they heard this they smote with their foreheads and he continued:

"You are to feed the children on the way and treat them well. They are to render a report of
your behavior to Smain. Smain shall write of this to the prophet. If any complaint against
you comes here, the next post will carry a death sentence for you."

A new bow was the only reply to these words; in addition Gebhr and Chamis had the miens of
dogs on which muzzles are placed.

The Greek then ordered them away, after which he thus spoke to the children in English:

"I fabricated all this, for the Mahdi did not issue any new orders. But as he said that you
were to go to Fashoda, it is necessary that you should reach there alive. I also reckoned upon
this, that none of them will see either the Mahdi or the caliph before their departure."

After which to Stas:

"I took umbrage at you, boy, and feel it yet. Do you know that you almost ruined me? The Mahdi
was offended at me, and to secure his forgiveness I was forced to surrender to Abdullahi a
considerable portion of my estate, and besides, I do not know for how long a time I have saved
myself. In any case I shall not be able to assist the captives as I have heretofore done. But
I felt sorry for you, particularly for her (and here he pointed at Nell). I have a daughter
of the same age, whom I love more than my own life, and for her sake I have done everything
which I have done. Christ will judge me for this--Up to this time she wears under her dress,
on her breast, a silver cross.--Her name is the same as yours, little one. Were it not for
her, I would have preferred to die rather than to live in this hell."

He was deeply moved. For a while he was silent, after which he rubbed his forehead with his
hand and began to speak of something else.

"The Mahdi sends you to Fashoda with the idea that there you will die. In this manner he will
revenge himself upon you for your stubbornness, boy, which touched him deeply, and he will
not lose his fame for 'mercy.' He always acts thus. But who knows who is destined to die first?
Abdullahi suggested to him the idea that he should order the dogs who kidnapped you, to go
with you. He rewarded them miserably, and now he fears that they may publish it. Besides, they
both preferred that the people should not be told that there are still in Egypt troops, cannons,
money, and Englishmen.--It will be a hard road and distant. You will go into a country desolate
and unhealthy. So guard, as the eye in the head, those powders which I gave to you."

"Sir, order Gebhr once more not to dare to starve or hit Nell," said Stas.

"Do not fear. I commended you to the old sheik who has charge of the post. He is an old acquaintance
of mine. I gave him a watch and with that I gained his protection for you."

Saying this, he began to bid them farewell. Taking Nell in his arms, he pressed her to his
bosom and repeated:

"May God bless you, my child."

In the meantime the sun descended and the night became starry. In the dusk resounded the snorting
of horses and the groans of the heavily loaded camels.

XX

The old sheik Hatim faithfully kept his promise given to the Greek and watched over the children
with great solicitude. The journey up the White Nile was difficult. They rode through Keteineh,
Ed-Dueim, and Kawa; afterwards they passed Abba, a woody Nile island, on which before the war
the Mahdi dwelt, in a hollow tree as a dervish hermit. The caravan often was compelled to make
a detour around extensive floating masses overgrown with pyrus, or so-called "sudds," from
which the breeze brought the poisoned odor of decomposed leaves carried by the current of water.
English engineers had previously cut through these barriers, and formerly steamboats could
ascend from Khartûm to Fashoda and farther. At present the river was blocked again and, being
unable to run freely, overflowed on both sides. The right and left banks of this region were
covered by a high jungle amid which stood hillocks of termites and solitary gigantic trees;
here and there the forest reached the river. In dry places grew groves of acacias. During the
first week they saw Arabian settlements and towns composed of houses with strange conical roofs
made of dochnu straw, but beyond Abba, from the settlement of Gôz Abu Guma they rode in the
country of the blacks. It was nearly desolate, for the dervishes had almost totally carried
away the local negro population and sold it in the markets of Khartûm, Omdurmân, Fasher, Dar,
El-Obeid, and other cities in the Sudân, Darfur, and Kordofân. Those inhabitants who succeeded
in escaping slavery in thickets in the forests were exterminated by starvation and small-pox,
which raged with unusual virulence along the White and Blue Niles. The dervishes themselves
said that whole nations had died of it. The former plantations of sorghum, manioc, and bananas
were covered by a jungle. Only wild beasts, not pursued by any one, multiplied plentifully.
Sometimes before the evening twilight the children saw from a distance great herds of elephants,
resembling movable rocks, walking with slow tread to watering places known only to themselves.
At the sight of them Hatim, a former ivory dealer, smacked his lips, sighed, and spoke thus
to Stas in confidence:

"Mashallah! How much wealth there is here! But now it is not worth while to hunt, for the Mahdi
has prohibited Egyptian traders from coming to Khartûm, and there is no one to sell the tusks
to, unless to the emirs for umbajas."

They met also giraffes, which, seeing the caravan, escaped hurriedly with heavy ambling pace,
swinging their long necks as if they were lame. Beyond Gôz Abu Guma appeared, more and more
frequently, buffaloes and whole herds of antelopes. The people of the caravan when they lacked
fresh meat hunted for them, but almost always in vain, for the watchful and fleet animals would
not allow themselves to be approached or surrounded.

Provisions were generally scarce, as owing to the depopulation of the region they could not
obtain either millet or bananas, or fish, which in former times were furnished by the Shilluk
and Dinka tribes who exchanged them willingly for glass beads and brass wire. Hatim, however,
did not permit the children to die of starvation, and what is more he kept a strict control
over Gebhr; and once, when the latter at about bed-time struck Stas while removing saddles
from the camels, he ordered the Sudânese to be stretched upon the ground and whipped thirty
times on each heel with a bamboo. For two days the cruel Sudânese could walk only on his toes
and cursed the hour when he left Fayûm, and revenged himself upon a young slave named Kali,
who had been presented to him.

Stas at the beginning was almost pleased that he had left infected Omdurmân and that he saw
a country of which he always had dreamed. His strong constitution thus far endured perfectly
the toils of the journey and the abundant food restored his energy. Several times during the
journey and at the stops he whispered to his little sister that it was possible to escape even
from beyond the White Nile, and that he did not at all abandon that design. But her health
disquieted him. Three weeks after the day of their departure from Omdurmân Nell had not indeed
succumbed to the fever, but her face grew thinner and instead of being tanned it became more
and more transparent, and her little hands looked as if they were moulded of wax. She did not
lack care and even such comforts as Stas and Dinah with the aid of Hatim could provide, but
she lacked the salubrious desert air. The moist and torrid climate united with the hardships
of the journey more and more undermined the strength of the child.

Stas, beginning at Gôz Abu Guma, gave her daily a half powder of quinine and worried terribly
at the thought that this remedy, which could be obtained nowhere later, would not last him
long. But it could not be helped, for it was necessary above all things to prevent the fever.
At moments despair possessed him. He deluded himself, however, with the hope that Smain, if
he desired to exchange them for his own children, would have to seek for them a more salubrious
place than the neighborhood of Fashoda.

But misfortune seemed continually to pursue its victims. On the day before the arrival at Fashoda,
Dinah, who while in Omdurmân felt weak, fainted suddenly at the untying of the small luggage
with Nell's things taken from Fayûm, and fell from the camel. Stas and Chamis revived her with
the greatest difficulty. She did not, however, regain consciousness, or rather she regained
it at the evening only to bid a tearful farewell to her beloved little lady, and to die. After
her death Gebhr insisted upon cutting off her ears in order to show them to Smain as proof
that she died during the journey, and to demand of him a separate payment for her abduction.
This was done with a slave who expired during the journey. But Hatim, at the entreaties of
Stas and Nell, would not consent to this; so they buried her decently and her mound was safeguarded
against hyenas with the assistance of stones and thorns. The children felt yet more lonely
for they realized that in her they had lost the only near and devoted soul. This was a terrible
blow, particularly for Nell, so Stas endeavored to comfort her throughout the whole night and
the following day.

The sixth week of the journey arrived. On the next day at noon the caravan reached Fashoda,
but they found only a pyre. The Mahdists bivouacked under the bare heaven or in huts hurriedly
built of grass and boughs. Three days previously the settlement had been burnt down. There
remained only the clay walls of the round hovels, blackened with smoke, and, standing close
by the water, a great wooden shed, which during the Egyptian times served as a storage-place
for ivory; in it at present lived the commander of the dervishes, Emir Seki Tamala. He was
a distinguished personage among the Mahdists, a secret enemy of Abdullahi, but on the other
hand a personal friend of Hatim. He received the old sheik and the children hospitably, but
immediately at the introduction told them unfavorable news.

Smain was not in Fashoda. Two days before he had gone southeast from the Nile on an expedition
for slaves, and it was not known when he would return, as the nearer localities were so depopulated
that it was necessary to seek for human chattels very far. Near Fashoda, indeed, lay Abyssinia,
with which the dervishes likewise waged war. But Smain having only three hundred men did not
dare to cross its borders, guarded vigilantly, at present, by King John's warlike inhabitants
and soldiers.

In view of this Seki Tamala and Hatim began to deliberate as to what was to be done with the
children. The consultation was held mainly at supper, to which the emir invited Stas and Nell.

"I," he said to Hatim, "must soon start with all the men upon a distant expedition against
Emin Pasha,* [* Emin Pasha, by birth a German Jew, was after the occupation by Egypt of the
region around Albert Nyanza, Governor of the Equatorial Provinces. His headquarters were at
Wadelai. The Mahdists attacked it a number of times. He was rescued by Stanley, who conducted
him with a greater part of his troops to Bagamoyo, on the Indian Ocean.]  who is located at
Lado, having steamers and troops there. Such is the command which you, Hatim, brought me. Therefore
you must return to Omdurmân, for in Fashoda there will not remain a single living soul. Here
there is no place in which to live, there is nothing to eat, and sickness is raging. I know,
indeed, that the white people do not catch small-pox, but fever will kill those children within
a month."

"I was ordered to bring them to Fashoda," replied Hatim, "so I brought them, and need not trouble
myself about them any more. But they were recommended to me by my friend, the Greek Kaliopuli;
for that reason I would not want them to perish."

"And this will surely happen."

"Then what is to be done?"

"Instead of leaving them in desolate Fashoda, send them to Smain together with those men who
brought them to Omdurmân. Smain went to the mountains, to a dry and high region where the fever
does not kill the people as on the river."

"How will they find Smain?"

"By the trail of fire. He will set fire to the jungle, first, in order to drive the game to
the rocky ravines in which it will be easy to surround and slaughter it, and then in order
to scare out of the thickets the heathens, who hid in them before pursuit. Smain will not be
hard to find--"

"Will they, however, overtake him?"

"He will at times pass a week in one locality to cure meat. Even though he rode away two or
three days ago they surely will overtake him."

"But why should they chase after him? He will return to Fashoda anyway."

"No. If the slave-hunt is successful, he will take the slaves to the cities to sell them--"

"What is to be done?"

"Remember that both of us must leave Fashoda. The children, even though the fever does not
kill them, will die of starvation."

"By the prophet! That is true."

And there really remained nothing else to do but to despatch the children upon a new wandering
life. Hatim, who appeared to be a very good man, was only troubled about this: whether Gebhr,
with whose cruel disposition he had become acquainted during the journey, would not treat them
too harshly. But the stern Seki Tamala, who aroused fear even in his own soldiers, commanded
the Sudânese to be summoned, and announced to him that he was to convey the children alive
and in good health to Smain, and at the same time to treat them kindly, as otherwise he would
be hung. The good Hatim entreated the emir to present to little Nell a female slave, who would
serve her and take care of her during the journey and in Smain's camp. Nell was delighted greatly
with this gift as it appeared that the slave was a young Dinka girl with pleasant features
and a sweet facial expression.

Stas knew that Fashoda was death, so he did not at all beg Hatim that he should not send them
upon a new journey, the third in rotation. In his soul, he thought also that riding in an easterly
and southerly direction, he must approach the Abyssinian boundaries and that he might escape.
He had a hope that upon the dry tableland Nell would be safeguarded against the fever, and
for these reasons he willingly and zealously entered into the preparation for the journey.

Gebhr, Chamis, and the two Bedouins also were not opposed to the expedition, reckoning that
at Smain's side they would succeed in capturing a considerable number of slaves, and afterwards
sell them profitably in the markets. They knew that slave-dealers in time amass great fortunes;
in any case they preferred to ride rather than to remain at that place under the immediate
control of Hatim and Seki Tamala.

The preparations, however, consumed considerable time, particularly as the children had to
recuperate. The camels were unavailable now for this journey, so the Arabs, and Stas and Nell
were to ride on horseback. Kali, Gebhr's slave, and Nell's maid, called Mea upon Stas' suggestion,
were to go on foot beside the horses. Hatim also procured a donkey to carry a tent intended
for the little girl and provisions for three days for the children. More Seki Tamala could
not give them. For Nell, something in the nature of a ladies' saddle, made of saddle-cloth,
palm, and bamboo mats was constructed.

The children passed three days in Fashoda to rest, but the countless number of mosquitoes above
the river made their stay unendurable. During the daytime appeared swarms of big blue flies,
which did not indeed bite, but were so vexing that they crept into the ears, filled the eyes,
and fell even into the mouths. Stas had heard while in Port Said that the mosquitoes and flies
spread fever and an infection of the inflammation of the eyes. Finally he himself entreated
Seki Tamala to hurry the expedition, particularly as the rainy spring season was approaching.

XXI

"Stas, why are we riding and speeding and have not yet reached Smain?"

"I do not know. He undoubtedly is moving rapidly ahead, in order to reach as quickly as possible
the region in which he can catch negroes. Are you anxious that we should join his detachment?"

The little girl nodded her pale-yellow little head in sign that she was very much concerned
about it.

"Why should you be so anxious?" asked Stas.

"Because perhaps Gebhr will not dare in Smain's company to beat that poor Kali so cruelly."

"Smain probably is no better. They all have no mercy for their slaves."

"Is that so?"

And two little tears coursed over her emaciated cheeks.

It was the ninth day of the journey. Gebhr, who was now the leader of the caravan, in the beginning
easily discovered traces of Smain's march. His way was indicated by a trail of burnt jungle
and camping grounds strewn with picked bones and various remnants. But after the lapse of five
days they came upon a vast expanse of burnt steppe, on which the wind had carried the fire
in all directions. The trails became deceptive and confusing, as, apparently, Smain had divided
his detachment into ten or more small divisions, in order to facilitate the surrounding of
the game and the capture of provisions. Gebhr did not know in which direction to go, and often
it happened that the caravan, after moving long in a circle, returned to the same place from
which it started. Afterwards they chanced upon forests, and after passing through them they
entered upon a rocky country where the ground was covered by smooth rocks or small stones,
scattered over the immense expanse so thickly that the children were reminded of city pavements.
The vegetation there was scant. Only here and there, in the crannies of rocks, grew euphorbias,
mimosas, and thorny and scrubby plants and, more infrequently yet, a slender, light green tree,
which Kali in the Kiswahili language called "m'ti" and with the leaves of which the horses
were fed. In this locality little rivers and streams were lacking, but fortunately from time
to time the rain began to fall, so they found water in the hollows and excavations of the rocks.

The game was driven away by Smain's detachment and the caravan would have died of starvation,
were it not for a multitude of guinea-fowls which every little while started from under the
horses' legs, and at evening encumbered the trees so thickly that it was sufficient to shoot
in their direction to cause a few to fall to the ground. In addition they were not timid and
permitted a close approach, and they rose so heavily and indolently that Saba, rushing ahead
of the caravan, seized and choked some of them almost every day.

Chamis killed about a score of them daily with an old shotgun which he had bartered from one
of the dervishes serving under Hatim during the trip from Omdurmân to Fashoda. He did not,
however, have shot for more than twenty charges and he became uneasy at the thought of what
would happen when the supply was exhausted. Indeed, notwithstanding the scaring away of the
game, there appeared at times amidst the rocks herds of ariels, beautiful antelopes common
in all Central Africa, but it was necessary to shoot at the ariels with the short rifle, while
they did not know how to use Stas' gun and Gebhr did not want to place it in his hands.

The Sudânese likewise began to grow uneasy at the long journey. At times it occurred to him
to return to Fashoda, because in case he and Smain should miss each other they might stray
in wild regions in which, not to speak of starvation, they were in danger of attacks of wild
animals, and savage negroes panting for revenge for the hunt which had been despatched against
them. But as he did not know that Seki Tamala was preparing an expedition against Emin, for
the conversation about this was not held in his presence, he was seized with terror at the
thought of appearing before the face of the puissant emir, who had commanded him to convey
the children to Smain and had given him a letter addressed to him and in addition had announced
that if he did not acquit himself properly of his duty, he would be hung. All of this taken
together filled his soul with bitterness and rage. He did not dare, however, to revenge himself
for his disappointments upon Stas and Nell; instead the back of poor Kali was covered with
blood under the courbash. The young slave approached his cruel master always trembling and
in fear. In vain he embraced his feet and kissed his hands; in vain he fell upon his face before
him. The stony heart was not moved either by humility or by groans, and the courbash gashed
the body of the unhappy boy upon the most trivial cause and often for none whatever. At night
his feet were placed in a wooden board with an opening to prevent him from running away. During
the day he walked tied with a rope fastened to a horse; this amused Chamis very much. Nell
shed tears over Kali's plight. Stas' heart raged and a number of times he passionately interceded
for him, but when he perceived that this inflamed Gebhr still more, he set his teeth and remained
silent.

But Kali understood that those two interceded for him, and he began to love them deeply with
his afflicted heart.

For two days they rode in a stony ravine lined with high steep rocks. From the stones heaped
and scattered in disorder it was easy to perceive that during the rainy season the ravine was
filled with water, but at present its bed was entirely dry. On the walls, on both sides, grew
small patches of grass, a great many thorns, and here and there even a tree. Gebhr directed
his way by this stony gullet because it went continually upwards; so he thought that it would
lead him to some eminence from which he could descry smoke during the daytime and Smain's camp-fires
at night. In some places the ravine became so narrow that only two horses could go side by
side; in other places it widened into small, round valleys, surrounded as if by high stone
walls, on which sat big baboons, playing with each other, barking, and displaying their teeth
at the caravan.

It was five o'clock in the afternoon. The sun already lowered towards the west. Gebhr thought
of a resting place; he wanted only to reach some small valley in which he could construct a
zareba, that is, enclose the caravan and horses with a fence of thorny mimosa and acacias,
for protection against attacks of wild animals. Saba rushed ahead, barking at the baboons which
at sight of him shook uneasily, and all of a sudden disappeared in the bend of the ravine.
Echo repeated loudly his barking.

Suddenly, however, he became silent and after a while he came rushing to the horses with hair
bristling on his back and tail curled under him. The Bedouins and Gebhr understood that something
must have frightened him, but staring at each other and desiring to ascertain what it could
be, they proceeded farther.

But riding around a small bend, the horses shied and stood still in one moment as if thunderstruck
by the sight which met their eyes.

On a fair-sized rock situated in the middle of the ravine, which was quite wide at that place,
lay a lion.

At most, a hundred paces separated him from them. The powerful beast, seeing the riders and
horses, rose on his fore paws and began to gaze at them. The sun, which now stood low, illumined
his huge head and shaggy breasts, and in that ruddy luster he was like one of those sphinxes
which ornament the entrances to ancient Egyptian temples.

The horses began to sit upon their haunches, to wince and draw back. The amazed and frightened
riders did not know what to do; so from mouth to mouth there flowed only the fearsome and helpless
words, "Allah! Bismillah! Allah akbar!"

And the king of the wilderness gazed at them from above, motionless as if cast of bronze.

Gebhr and Chamis had heard from traders, who came to Egypt from the Sudân with ivory and gum,
that lions sometimes lie down in the paths of caravans, which, on account of this, must turn
aside. But here there was no place which they could turn to. It behoved them perhaps to turn
about and fly. Yes! But in such case it was a certainty that the dreadful beast would rush
after them in pursuit.

Again resounded the feverish interrogations:

"What is to be done?"

"Allah! Perhaps he will step aside."

"No, he will not."

And again a silence fell. Only the snorting of the horses and the quickened breathing of the
human breasts could be heard.

"Untie Kali!" Chamis suddenly exclaimed to Gebhr, "and we will escape on the horses; the lion
will first overtake him, and kill him only."

"Do that," repeated the Bedouins.

But Gebhr surmised that in such a case Kali, in the twinkling of an eye, would climb on the
rocky wall and the lion would chase after the horses; therefore another horrible idea suggested
itself to him. He would kill the boy with his knife and fling his body ahead of him and then
the lion, dashing after them, would see on the ground the bleeding corpse and stop to devour it.

So he dragged Kali by the rope to the saddle and had already raised his knife, when in the
same second Stas clutched the wide sleeve of his jubha.

"Villain! What are you doing?"

Gebhr began to tug and, if the boy had seized him by the hand, he would have freed it at once,
but it was not so easy with the sleeve; so he began to tug, and splutter with a voice stifled
with fury.

"Dog! if he is not enough, I shall stab you both! Allah! I shall stab you! I shall stab you!"

And Stas paled mortally, for like lightning the thought flashed through his mind that the lion
chasing after the horses above all might actually overlook Kali, and in such case Gebhr with
the greatest certainty would stab them both in turn.

So pulling the sleeve with redoubled strength he shouted:

"Give me the short rifle! I will kill the lion!"

These words astonished the Bedouins, but Chamis, who had witnessed Stas' shooting in Port Said,
began at once to cry:

"Give him the rifle! He will kill the lion."

Gebhr recollected at once the shots on Lake Karûn and in view of the horrible danger, assented.
With great haste he gave the boy the short rifle and Chamis, as quick as a thought, opened
the cartridge box, from which Stas took a large fistful of cartridges, after which he leaped
off his horse, inserted the cartridges in the barrels, and moved forward.

For the first few steps he was as though stupefied and saw only himself and Nell with throats
cut by Gebhr's knife. But soon the nearer and more horrible danger commanded him to forget
about everything else. He had a lion before him! At the sight of the animal his eyes grew dim.
He felt a chill on his cheeks and nose, he felt that he had feet as if made of lead and he
could scarcely breathe. Plainly he feared. In Port Said he had read during the recitation time
of lion-hunts, but it was one thing to examine pictures in books and another to stand eye to
eye with the monster, who now gazed at him as if with amazement, wrinkling his broad forehead
which resembled a shield.

The Arabs held the breath in their breasts, for never in their lives had they seen anything
like this. On the one side was a small boy, who amid the steep rocks appeared yet smaller,
on the other a powerful beast, golden in the sun's rays, magnificent, formidable--"The lord
with the great head," as the Sudânese say.

Stas overcame with the whole force of his will the inertness of his limbs and advanced farther.
For a while yet it seemed to him that his heart had leaped up into his throat, and this feeling
continued until he raised the rifle to his face. Then it was necessary to think of something
else. Whether to approach nearer or to fire at once; where to aim. The smaller the distance
the surer the shot--therefore nearer and nearer!--forty paces, too many yet;--thirty!--twenty!
Already the breeze carried the pungent animal odor.

The boy stood.

"A bullet between the eyes, or it will be all over with me," he thought. "In the name of the
Father and of the Son--!"

And the lion rose, stretched his body, and lowered his head. His lips began to open, his brows
to contract over his eyes. This mite of being had dared to approach too closely--so he prepared
for a leap, sitting with haunches quivering on his hind legs.

But Stas, during the twinkling of an eye, perceived that the bead of the rifle was in a direct
line with the forehead of the animal--and pulled the trigger.

The shot pealed. The lion reared so that for a while he straightened out to his full height;
after which he toppled over on his back with his four paws up.

And in the final convulsions he rolled off the rock onto the ground.

Stas for several minutes covered him with his rifle, but seeing that the quivering ceased and
that the tawny body was stretched out inertly, he opened the rifle and inserted another cartridge.

The stony walls reverberated yet with the thunderous echo. Gebhr, Chamis, and the Bedouins
could not at once descry what had happened, as on the previous night rain had fallen, and owing
to the dampness of the weather the smoke veiled everything in the narrow ravine. Only when
the smoke abated, did they shout with joy, and wanted to rush towards the boy, but in vain,
as no power could force the horses to move ahead.

And Stas turned around, took in the four Arabs with his gaze and fixed his eyes on Gebhr.

"Ah! There has been enough of this!" he said through his set teeth. "You have exceeded the
measure. You shall not torment Nell or any one else any more."

And suddenly he felt that his nose and cheeks turned pale, but this was a different chill,
caused not by fright, but by a terrible and inflexible resolution from which the heart in the
bosom becomes, for the time being, iron.

"Yes! It is imperative! These are mere villains, executioners, murderers, and Nell is in their
hands!"

"You shall not murder her!" he repeated.

He approached them--again stood, and suddenly with the rapidity of lightning raised the rifle
to his face.

Two shots, one after the other, jarred the ravine with an echo. Gebhr tumbled upon the ground,
and Chamis swayed in the saddle and struck his horse's neck with his bleeding forehead.

The two Bedouins uttered a horrified cry of consternation and, springing from the horses, dashed
at Stas. A bend was not far behind them, and if they had run in the other direction, which
Stas in his soul desired, they could have saved their lives. But blinded by terror and fury
they thought that they would reach the boy before he would be able to change the cartridges,
and cut him to pieces with their knives. Fools! They ran barely a dozen paces when again the
ill-omened rifle cracked; the ravine resounded with the echo of new shots and both fell with
faces on the ground, flouncing about like fishes taken out of water. One of them, who in the
haste was hurt the least, raised himself and propped himself on his hands, but at that moment
Saba sunk his fangs in his throat.

And mortal silence ensued.

It was broken only by the moans of Kali, who threw himself on his knees and, stretching out
his hands, exclaimed in the broken Kiswahili tongue:

"Bwana kubwa! (Great master!) Kill the lion! Kill bad people, but do not kill Kali!"

Stas, however, paid no heed to his cries. For some time he stood as if dazed; after which,
observing Nell's pallid face and half-conscious eyes, opened widely from terror, he ran towards
her.

"Nell, do not fear!--Nell, we are free!"

In fact they actually were free, but astray in a wild, uninhabited region, in the heart of
the land of the Blacks.

PART SECOND

I

Before Stas and the young negro dragged the slain Arabs and the lion's heavy body to the side
of the ravine the sun had descended still more and night was soon to fall. But it was impossible
to sleep in the vicinity of the corpses; so, though Kali stroked his stomach and repeated,
smacking with his tongue, "Msuri niama" (good meat), Stas did not permit him to busy himself
with the "niama," and instead ordered him to catch the horses, which ran away after the shooting.
The black boy did this with extraordinary skill. Instead of running after them in the ravine,
in which case they would have sped away farther and farther, he climbed to the top and, shortening
his way by avoiding the bends, he intercepted the startled steeds from the front. In this manner
he easily caught two; and two more he drove towards Stas. Only Gebhr's and Chamis' horses could
not be found, but at any rate four remained, not counting the lap-eared creature, loaded with
the tent and things, who, in view of the tragic occurrences, displayed a true philosophical
calm. They found him beyond a bend, cropping closely and without any haste the grass growing
on the bottom of the ravine.

The medium-sized Sudânese horses are accustomed generally to the sight of wild animals, but
they fear lions, so it was with considerable difficulty that they were led past the rock which
was blackened with a puddle of blood. The horses snorted, dilating their nostrils and stretching
their necks towards the blood-stained stones; nevertheless, when the donkey, only pricking
his ears a little, passed by calmly, they also passed on. Night had already fallen; they nevertheless
rode over half a mile, and halted only in a place where the ravine widened again into a small
amphitheatrical vale, overgrown with dense thorns and prickly mimosa trees.

"Master," said the young negro, "Kali will make a fire--a big fire."

And taking the broad Sudânese sword, which he had removed from Gebhr's corpse, he began to
cut with it thorns and even little trees. After building the fire, he continued to cut until
he secured a supply which would suffice for the whole night, after which with Stas he pitched
the tent for Nell, under a steep perpendicular wall of the ravine, and later they surrounded
it with a semi-circular, broad and prickly fence, or a so-called zareba.

Stas knew from descriptions of African travels that travelers in this manner safeguarded themselves
against the attacks of wild animals. The horses could not be placed within the fence; so the
boy, unsaddling them and removing the tin utensils and bags, only hobbled them so that they
should not stray too far in seeking grass or water. Mea finally found water near-by in a stony
cavity, forming as it were a little basin under the opposite rocks. There was so copious a
supply that it sufficed for the horses and the cooking of the guinea-fowls which were shot
that morning by Chamis. In the pack-saddles, which the donkey bore, they also found about three
pots of durra, a few fistfuls of salt, and a bunch of dried manioc roots.

This sufficed for a bounteous supper. Kali and Mea mainly took advantage of it. The young negro
whom Gebhr had starved in a cruel manner ate such an amount of food as would have sated two
men. But for this he was grateful with his whole heart to his new master and mistress, and
immediately after supper he fell on his face before Stas and Nell in token that he desired
to remain their slave to the end of his life, and afterwards he also prostrated himself with
due humility before Stas' short rifle, understanding that it was the best policy to conciliate
so formidable a weapon. After this he announced that during the slumber of the "great master"
and the "bibi" he, alternately with Mea, would watch that the fire should not go out, and squatted
near it, mumbling quietly something in the nature of a song, in which every little while was
repeated the refrain, "Simba kufa, simba kufa," which in the Kiswahili language means, "The
lion is killed."

But the "great master" and the little "bibi" were not inclined to sleep. Nell, at Stas' urgent
request, barely swallowed a few pieces of guinea-fowl and a few grains of boiled durra. She
said that she did not care to eat or sleep but only to drink. A fear seized Stas that she might
be suffering from fever, but he soon became satisfied that her hands were cool and even too
cold. He persuaded her to enter the tent where he prepared bedding for her, first searching
carefully in the grass for scorpions. He himself sat upon a stone with short rifle in hand
to defend her from attacks by wild beasts, if the fire did not afford sufficient protection.
He was beset by great fatigue and exhaustion. In his soul he repeated to himself, "I killed
Gebhr and Chamis; I killed the Bedouins; I killed the lion, and we are free." But it was as
if those words were whispered to him by some one else and as if he himself did not comprehend
their full meaning. He had not a feeling that they were free, but that something awful at the
same time had happened which filled him with uneasiness and weighed upon his bosom like a heavy
stone. Finally his thoughts began to grow blunt. For a long time he gazed at the big moths
hovering above the flame and in the end he nodded and dozed. Kali also dozed, but awoke every
little while and threw twigs into the fire.

The night became dark and, what is a rare occurrence under the tropics, very still. They could
hear only the cracking of the burning thorns and the hissing of flames which illumined the
overhanging rocks forming a semi-circle. The moon did not shine into the depths of the ravine,
but above twinkled a swarm of unknown stars. The air became so cool that Stas shook off his
drowsiness and began to worry whether the chill would not incommode little Nell.

But he became reassured, when he recollected that he left her under the tent upon the plaid
cloth, which Dinah took with her from Fayûm. It also occurred to him that riding continuously
from the Nile upwards, though imperceptibly, they must have ridden, through so many days, quite
high; therefore to a region which was not threatened with fever as are the low river banks.
The penetrating night chill appeared to confirm this supposition.

And this thought encouraged him. He went for a moment to Nell's tent to listen whether she
slept peacefully; after which he returned, sat nearer the fire, and again began to doze and
even fell into a sound slumber.

Suddenly he was awakened by the growling of Saba, who previously had lain down to sleep close
by his feet.

Kali awoke also and both began to look about uneasily at the mastiff, who, stretching out like
a chord, pricked his ears, and with quivering nostrils scented in the direction from which
they had come, gazed fixedly at the same time into the darkness. The hair bristled on his neck
and back and his breasts heaved from air which during the growling he inhaled into his lungs.

The young slave flung dry twigs into the fire as speedily as possible.

"Master," he whispered. "Take the rifle! Take the rifle!"

Stas took the rifle and moved before the fire to see better in the dusky depth of the ravine.
Saba's growls changed into barks. For a long time nothing could be heard, after which, however,
from the distance there reached the ears of Kali and Stas a hollow, clattering sound as if
some great animals were rushing in the direction of the fire. This sound reverberated in the
stillness with an echo against the stony walls, and became louder and louder.

Stas realized that a dire danger was drawing near. But what could it be? Buffaloes, perhaps?
Perhaps a pair of rhinoceroses seeking an exit from the ravine? In such case if the report
of the shot did not scare them and turn them back, nothing could save the caravan, for those
animals, not less ferocious and aggressive than rapacious beasts, do not fear fire and tread
under foot everything in their way.

If, however, it should be a division of Smain's forces who, having encountered the corpses
in the ravine, are pursuing the murderers? Stas did not know which would be better--a sudden
death or new captivity? In addition it flitted through his mind that if Smain himself was in
the division, he might spare them, but if he was not, then the dervishes would at once kill
them or, what is worse, torture them in a horrible manner before their death. "Ah," he thought,
"God grant that these are animals, not men!"

In the meantime the clatter increased and changed into a thunder of hoof-beats until finally
there emerged out of the darkness glittering eyes, dilated nostrils, and wind-tossed manes.

"Horses!" cried Kali.

In fact they were Gebhr's and Chamis' horses. They came running, driven evidently by fright,
but dashing into the circle of light and seeing their fettered companions, they reared on their
hind legs; after which, snorting, they implanted their hoofs in the ground and remained for
a while motionless.

But Stas did not lower his rifle. He was certain that at any moment after the horses a shaggy-haired
lion or a flat-skulled panther would appear. But he waited in vain. The horses quieted slowly,
and what was more, Saba after a certain time ceased to scent. Instead, he turned about a few
times on the spot as dogs usually do, lay down, rolled himself into a ball and closed his eyes.
Apparently, if any rapacious animal had chased the horses, then, having smelt the smoke or
seen the reflection of the fire on the rocks, it had retreated into the distance.

"Something must have frightened them badly," Stas said to Kali, "since they did not fear to
rush by the body of the lion and the men's corpses."

"Master," answered the boy, "Kali can guess what happened. Many, many hyenas and jackals entered
the ravine to get at the corpses. The horses ran before them, but the hyenas are not chasing
them, for they are eating Gebhr and those others--"

"That may be, but do you now unsaddle the horses; remove the utensils and bags and bring them
here. Do not fear, for the rifle will protect you."

"Kali does not fear," answered the boy.

And pushing aside the thorns close by the rocks, he slipped out of the zareba. In the meantime
Nell came out of the tent.

Saba rose at once and, pressing his nose close to her, claimed his usual caress. But she, extending
at first her hand, withdrew it at once as if with aversion.

"Stas, what has happened?" she asked.

"Nothing. Those two horses came running up. Did their hoof-beats awaken you?"

"I was awake before then and even wanted to come out of the tent, but--"

"But what?"

"I thought that you might get angry."

"I? At you?"

And Nell raised her eyes and began to gaze at him with a peculiar look with which she had never
eyed him before. Great astonishment stole over Stas' face, for in her words and gaze he plainly
read fear.

"She fears me," he thought.

And in the first moment he felt something like a gleam of satisfaction. He was flattered by
the thought that, after what he had accomplished, even Nell regarded him not only as a man
fully matured, but as a formidable warrior spreading alarm about. But this lasted only a short
time, for misfortune had developed in him an observing mind and talent; he discerned, therefore,
that in those uneasy eyes of the little girl could be seen, besides fright, abhorrence, as
it were, of what had happened, of the bloodshed and the horrors which she that day had witnessed.
He recalled how, a few moments before, she withdrew her hand, not wishing to pat Saba, who
had finished, by strangling, one of the Bedouins. Yes! Stas himself felt an incubus on his
breast. It was one thing to read in Port Said about American trappers, killing in the far west
red-skinned Indians by the dozens, and another to accomplish that personally and see men, alive
a short while before, struggling in their death-throes, in a pool of blood. Yes, Nell's heart
undoubtedly was full of fear and at the same time aversion which would always remain with her.
"She will fear me," Stas thought, "and in the depths of her heart, involuntarily, she will
not cease holding it ill of me, and this will be my reward for all that I have done for her."

At this thought great bitterness swelled in his bosom, for it was apparent to him that if it
were not for Nell he would either have been killed or would have escaped. For her he suffered
all that he had endured; and those tortures and that hunger resulted only in this, that she
now stood before him frightened, as if she was not the same little sister, and lifted her eyes
towards him not with former trustfulness, but with a strange fear. Stas suddenly felt very
unhappy. For the first time in his life he understood what it was to be moved to tears. In
spite of his will tears flowed to his eyes and were it not for the fact that it did not under
any circumstances become "a formidable warrior" to weep, he might perhaps have shed tears.

He restrained himself, however, and, turning to the little girl, asked:

"Do you fear, Nell?"

And she replied in a low voice:

"Somehow--it is so horrible!"

At this Stas ordered Kali to bring the saddle-cloths from a saddle and, covering with one of
them a rock on which he had previously dozed, he spread the other upon the ground and said:

"Sit here beside me near the fire. How chilly the night is! If sleep overcomes you, rest your
head upon me and you will fall asleep."

But Nell repeated:

"Somehow--it is so horrible!"

Stas wrapped her carefully in plaids and for some time they sat in silence, supporting each
other and illuminated by a rosy luster which crept over the rocks and sparkled on the mica
plates with which the stony fissures were bespangled.

Beyond the zareba could be heard the snorting of horses and the crunching of grass in their teeth.

"Listen, Nell," Stas spoke out. "I had to do that--Gebhr threatened that he would stab us both
if the lion would not be content with Kali and should continue to pursue them. Didn't you hear
him? Think of it; he threatened by that not only me, but you. And he would have done it. I
tell you sincerely that if it were not for that threat, though formerly I already was thinking
of it, I would not have shot at them. I think I could not--But he exceeded the measure. You
saw how cruelly before that time he treated Kali. And Chamis? How vilely he betrayed us. Besides,
do you know what would have happened if they did not find Smain? Gebhr would likewise have
vented his anger upon us--upon you. It is dreadful to think that he would have whipped you
daily with the courbash, and would have tortured us both to death, and after our death he would
return to Fashoda and say that we died of fever. Nell, I did not do that from fiendishness,
but I had to think of this, how to save you--I was concerned only about you--"

And his face plainly reflected that affliction which overflowed in his heart. Nell evidently
understood this, as she pressed yet more closely to him, while he, momentarily mastering his
emotions, continued thus:

"I, of course, shall not change, and shall guard and watch over you as before. As long as they
lived there was no hope of rescue. Now we may fly to Abyssinia. The Abyssinians are black and
wild, but Christians and foes of the dervishes. If you only retain your health, we shall succeed,
for it is not so very far to Abyssinia. And even though we do not succeed, though we fall into
Smain's hand, do not think that he will revenge himself upon us. He never in his life saw either
Gebhr or the Bedouins; he knew only Chamis, but what was Chamis to him? Besides, we need not
tell Smain that Chamis was with us. If we succeed in reaching Abyssinia, then we are saved,
and if not, you will not fare any worse, but better, for tyrants worse than those men probably
cannot be found in the world. Do not fear me, Nell."

And desiring to win her confidence and at the same time cheer her, he began to stroke her little
yellow head. The little maid listened, raising timidly her eyes to him. Evidently she wanted
to say something but hesitated and feared. Finally she leaned her head so that her hair entirely
covered her face and asked in a yet lower and slightly quivering voice:

"Stas--"

"What is it, dear?"

"They will not come here?"

"Who?" Stas asked with amazement.

"Those--killed."

"What are you talking about, Nell?"

"I am afraid! I am afraid!"

And her pallid lips began to quiver.

Silence ensued. Stas did not believe that the slain could rise from the dead, but as it was
night and their bodies lay not far away, he became depressed in spirit; a chill passed over
his back.

"What are you saying, Nell?" he repeated. "Then Dinah taught you to fear ghosts--The dead do not--"

And he did not finish, for at that moment something awe-inspiring occurred. Amid the stillness
of the night, in the depths of the ravine, from the direction in which the corpses lay suddenly
resounded a kind of inhuman, frightful laughter in which quivered despair, and joy, and cruelty,
and suffering, and pain, and sobbing, and derision; the heart-rending and spasmodic laughter
of the insane or condemned.

Nell screamed, and with her whole strength embraced Stas with her arms. Stas' hair stood on
end. Saba started up suddenly and began to growl.

But Kali, sitting at some distance, quietly raised his head and said almost gleefully:

"Those are hyenas gloating over Gebhr and the lion--"

II

The great events of the preceding day and the sensations of the night so tired out Stas and
Nell that when finally slumber overcame them they fell into a deep sleep, and the little girl
did nor appear outside the tent until about noon-time. Stas rose somewhat earlier from a saddle-cloth
spread near the camp-fire, and in expectation of his little companion he ordered Kali to prepare
a breakfast, which in view of the late hour was to form at the same time their dinner.

The bright light of the day dispelled the terrors of the night; both awoke not only well rested,
but refreshed in spirit. Nell looked better and felt stronger. As both wanted to ride away
as far as possible from the place where the slain Sudânese were lying, immediately after the
refreshments they mounted their horses and moved ahead.

At that time of the day all travelers in Africa stop for the noon rest, and even caravans composed
of negroes seek shelter under the shade of great trees; for they are the so-called white hours,
hours of heat and silence, during which the sun broils unmercifully and, looking from above,
seems to seek whom to slay. Every beast at such times burrows itself in the greatest thicket,
the song of birds ceases, the buzz of insects stops, and all nature falls into silence, secreting
itself as if desirous of guarding against the eye of a wicked divinity. But they rode on in
the ravine in which one of the walls cast a deep shadow, enabling them to proceed without exposing
themselves to the scorching heat. Stas did not want to leave the ravine, firstly, because,
above, they might be espied from a distance by Smain's detachments, and then it was easier
to find, in rocky crevices, water, which in uncovered places soaked into the ground or under
the influence of the sun's rays was transformed into steam.

The road continuously but imperceptibly led upwards. On the rocky walls could be seen from
time to time yellow traces of sulphur. The water in the clefts was saturated with its odor,
which reminded both children unpleasantly of Omdurmân and the Mahdists, who smeared their heads
with fat mixed with sulphur powder. In some places muskcats could be smelt; but there, where
from high, overhanging rocks magnificent cascades of lianas fell to the bottom of the ravine,
came an intoxicating scent of vanilla. The little wanderers willingly stopped in the shade
of these tapestries embroidered with purple flowers and lilies, which with the leaves provided
food for the horses.

Animals could not be seen; only from time to time on the crests of rocks monkeys squatted,
resembling on the blue background those fantastic idols which in India adorn the borders of
temples. Big males with long manes displayed their teeth at Saba or stretched out their jaws
in sign of amazement and rage, and at the same time jumped about, blinking with their eyes
and scratching their sides. But Saba, accustomed already to the sight of them, did not pay
much heed to their menaces.

They rode briskly. Joy at recovering liberty drove away from Stas' breast that incubus which
had throttled him during the night. His mind was now occupied with the thought of what was
to be done farther; how to lead Nell and himself from a locality in which they were threatened
by new captivity with the dervishes; what measures to adopt during the long journey through
the wilderness in order not to die of hunger and thirst, and finally, whither to go? He knew
already from Hatim that the Abyssinian boundary in a direct line from Fashoda was not more
than five days' journey, and he calculated that this would be about one hundred English miles.
Now from their departure from Fashoda almost two weeks had elapsed; so it was clear that they
had not gone by the shortest route, but in seeking Smain must have turned considerably towards
the south. He recollected that on the sixth day they crossed a river which was not the Nile,
and that afterwards, before the country began to rise, they rode around great swamps. At school
in Port Said, the geography of Africa was taught very thoroughly and in Stas' memory remained
the name of Ballor, designating an expansion of the little-known river Sobat, a tributary of
the Nile. He was not indeed certain whether they had passed that expansion, but assumed that
they had. It occurred to him that Smain, desiring to capture slaves, could not seek for them
directly west of Fashoda, as that country was already entirely depopulated by dervishes and
small-pox; but that he would have to go to localities which heretofore were not visited by
an expedition. Stas deduced from this that they were following Smain's trail, and the thought
frightened him in the first moments.

He therefore reflected whether it would not be better to abandon the ravine which turned more
and more plainly towards the south and go directly eastward. But after a moment's consideration
he relinquished the plan. On the contrary, to follow the tracks of Smain's band at two or three
days' distance appeared to him to be the safest course as it was very improbable that Smain
would return with his human wares by way of the same circuitous route instead of making his
way directly for the Nile. Stas understood also that Abyssinia could be reached only from the
southern side where that country borders on a great wilderness and not from the eastern boundary
which was carefully guarded by dervishes.

As a result of these thoughts he determined to venture as far as possible towards the south.
They might encounter negroes, either refugees from the banks of the White Nile or natives.
But of the two evils Stas preferred to have dealings with the blacks rather than with Mahdists.
He reckoned too that in the event of meeting refugees or natives Kali and Mea might prove useful.
It was enough to glance at the young negress to surmise that she belonged to the Dinka or Shilluk
tribe, for she had uncommonly long and thin limbs, so characteristic of both of those tribes,
dwelling on the banks of the Nile and wading like cranes and storks, during its inundation.
Kali, on the other hand, though under Gebhr's hand he became like a skeleton, had an entirely
different stature. He was short and thick and strongly built; he had powerful shoulders and
his feet in comparison with Mea's feet were relatively small.

As he did not speak Arabian at all and spoke poorly the Kiswahili language with which one can
converse almost anywhere in Africa and which Stas had learned fairly well from the natives
of Zanzibar, working on the Canal, it was evident that he came from some distant region.

Stas determined to sound him upon this point.

"Kali, what is the name of your people?" he asked.

"Wahima," answered the young negro.

"Is that a great nation?"

"Great, which is making war upon the bad Samburus and takes their cattle."

"Is that country like this?"

"No. There are mountains and great water."

"How is that water called?"

"We call it 'The Dark Water.'"

Stas thought that the boy might come from the neighborhood of the Albert Nyanza, which up to
that time had been in the hands of Emin Pasha; so, desiring to confirm this, he asked further:

"Does not a white chief live there who has black smoking boats and troops?"

"No, the old men with us say that they saw white men, (here Kali parted his fingers) one, two,
three. Yes. There were three of them in long white dresses. They were looking for tusks. Kali
did not see them for he was not in the world, but Kali's father received them and gave them
many cows."

"What is your father?"

"The king of Wahima."

Stas was flattered a little by the idea that he had a Prince Royal for a servant.

"Would you like to see your father?"

"Kali wants to see his mother."

"What would you do if we met the Wahimas, and what would they do?"

"The Wahimas would fall on their faces before Kali."

"Lead us to them; then you shall remain with them and rule after your father, and we will go
farther to the sea."

"Kali cannot find the way to them, and cannot remain, for Kali loves the great master and the
daughter of the moon."

Stas turned merrily to his companion and said:

"Nell, you have become the daughter of the moon."

But, glancing at her, he saddened suddenly, for it occurred to him that the emaciated girl
actually looked with her pale and transparent countenance more like a lunar than an earthly being.

The young negro became silent for a while; then he repeated:

"Kali loves Bwana kubwa, for Bwana kubwa did not kill Kali, only Gebhr, and gives Kali a great
deal to eat."

And he began to stroke his breast, repeating with evident delight:

"A great deal of meat! a great deal of meat!"

Stas wanted to ascertain how Kali became the slave of the dervishes; it appeared that from
the night when he was caught in a pit, dug for zebras, he had gone through so many hands that
Stas could not tell from his statements what countries he had passed through and by what route
he had been conducted to Fashoda. Stas was much impressed by what he said about the "dark water,"
for if he came from the region of Albert Nyanza, Albert Edward Nyanza, or even Victoria Nyanza,
near which lay the kingdoms of the Unyoro and the Uganda, he would undoubtedly have heard something
about Emin Pasha, about his troops, and about the steamers, which aroused the wonder and fear
of the negroes. Tanganyika was too far away; there remained only the supposition that Kali's
nation had its seat somewhere nearer. For this reason their meeting with the Wahimas was not
an utter improbability.

After a few hours' ride, the sun began to descend. The heat decreased considerably. They chanced
upon a wide valley in which they found water and a score or more of wild fig trees. So they
stopped to rest their horses and partake of provisions. As the rocky walls at that place were
lower, Stas ordered Kali to climb to the top and ascertain whether smoke could not be seen
in the vicinity.

Kali complied with the order and in the twinkling of an eye reached the edge of the rocks.
Peering around carefully in all directions he slid down a thick liana stalk and announced that
there was no smoke, but that there were "niama." It was easy to surmise that he was speaking
not of guinea-fowl but of some bulkier game, for he pointed at Stas' short rifle and afterwards
put his fingers on his head to indicate horned game.

Stas in turn climbed up and, leaning his head carefully over the edge, began to look ahead.
Nothing obstructed his view of the expanse, as the old, high jungle was burnt away and the
new, which had already sprouted from the blackened ground, was barely a few inches high. As
far as the eye could reach could be seen sparsely growing great trees, with trunks singed by
the fire. Under the shade of one of them grazed a flock of antelopes which from the shape of
their bodies resembled horses, and from their heads buffaloes. The sun penetrating through
the baobab leaves cast quivering bright spots upon their brown backs. There were ten of them.
The distance was not more than one hundred paces, but the wind blew from the animals towards
the ravine, so they grazed quietly, not suspecting any danger. Stas, desiring to replenish
his supplies with meat, shot at the nearest one, which tumbled on the ground as if struck by
lightning. The rest of the flock ran away, and with them a great buffalo, which he did not
perceive before, as he lay hidden behind a stone. The boy, not from necessity, but from a sporting
vein, choosing the moment when the animal turned his side somewhat, sent a bullet after him.
The buffalo staggered greatly after the shot, drew in his haunches, but rushed away, and before
Stas was able to reload disappeared in the unevenness of the ground.

Before the smoke blew away, Kali sat upon the antelope and cut open its abdomen with Gebhr's
knife. Stas walked towards him, desiring to inspect more closely the animal, and great was
his surprise when after a while the young negro with blood-stained hands handed to him the
reeking liver of the antelope.

"Why are you giving me that?" he asked.

"Msuri, msuri! Bwana kubwa eat at once."

"Eat it yourself," replied Stas, indignant at the proposition.

Kali did not allow this command to be repeated, but immediately began to tear the liver with
his teeth, and greedily gulp down the raw pieces; seeing that Stas gazed at him with loathing
he did not cease between one gulp and another to repeat: "Msuri! msuri!"

In this manner he ate over half of the liver; after which he started to dress the antelope.
He did this with uncommon quickness and skill, so that soon the hide was flayed and the haunches
were separated from the backbone. Then Stas, somewhat surprised that Saba was not present at
this work, whistled for him to come to a bounteous feast of the fore parts of the animal.

But Saba did not appear at all. Instead, Kali, who was bending over the antelope, raised his
head and said:

"The big dog ran after the buffalo."

"Did you see him?" Stas asked.

"Kali saw."

Saying this, he placed the loin of the antelope on his head and the two haunches on his shoulders
and started for the ravine. Stas whistled a few times more and waited, but seeing that he was
doing this in vain, followed Kali. In the ravine Mea was already engaged in cutting the thorns
for a zareba, while Nell, picking with her little fingers the last guinea-fowl, asked:

"Did you whistle for Saba? He ran after you."

"He ran after a buffalo which I wounded with a shot, and I am worried," Stas answered. "Those
animals are terribly ferocious and so powerful that even a lion fears to attack them. Saba
may fare badly if he begins a fight with such an adversary."

Hearing this Nell became alarmed and declared that she would not go to sleep until Saba returned.
Stas, seeing her grief, was angry at himself because he had not concealed the danger from her
and began to comfort her:

"I would go after them with the rifle," he said, "but they must now be very far away, and soon
the night will fall and the tracks will be invisible. The buffalo is badly wounded, and I have
a hope that he will fall. In any case he will weaken through loss of blood, and if he should
rush at Saba, Saba will be able to run away. Yes! he may return during the night, but he surely
will return."

Although he said this, he did not greatly believe his own words, for he remembered what he
had read of the extraordinarily revengeful nature of the African buffalo, which, though heavily
wounded, will run about in a circuit and lie in ambush near a path over which the hunter goes
and afterwards attack him unexpectedly, pin him on its horns, and toss him into the air. Something
similar might happen to Saba; not to speak of other dangers which threatened him on the return
to the camp during the night.

In fact night soon fell. Kali and Mea put up a zareba, built a fire, and prepared supper. Saba
did not return.

Nell became more and more worried and finally began to cry.

Stas with difficulty persuaded her to lie down, promising her that he would wait for Saba,
and as soon as the day should break, he himself would search for the dog and bring him back.
Nell indeed entered the tent, but at intervals she put out her little head from under its folds,
asking whether the dog had not returned. Sleep overcame her only after midnight, when Mea came
out to relieve Kali, who watched the fire.

"Why does the daughter of the moon weep?" the young negro asked Stas, when both lay down on
the saddle-cloths. "Kali does not want that."

"She is sorry for Saba, whom the buffalo has surely killed."

"But perhaps he did not kill him," replied the black boy.

After this they became silent and Stas fell into a deep sleep. It was still dark, however,
when he awoke, for the chill began to incommode him. The fire was partly extinct. Mea, who
was to watch the fire, dozed and after a time had ceased throwing fuel upon the flames.

The saddle-cloth on which Kali slept was unoccupied.

Stas himself threw brushwood onto the fire, after which he shook the negress and asked:

"Where is Kali?"

For a time she stared at him unconsciously; afterwards coming to her senses, she said:

"Kali took Gebhr's sword and went beyond the zareba. I thought he wanted to cut more brushwood,
but he did not return at all."

"Did he go long ago?"

"Long."

Stas waited for some time, but as the negro did not return, he involuntarily propounded to
himself the question:

"Did he run away?"

And his heart was oppressed by the disagreeable feeling which human ingratitude always arouses.
Why! he had interceded for this Kali and defended him when Gebhr vented his rage upon him for
whole days, and afterwards he had saved the slave's life. Nell was always kind to him and had
wept over his unhappy lot, and both treated him in the best possible manner. Now he ran away!
He himself had said that he did not know in which direction the Wahima settlements were situated,
and though he would be unable to find them, he nevertheless ran away. Stas again recollected
those "African Travels" in Port Said, and the narratives of travelers about the stupidity of
negroes, who, throwing away packages, run away although in their escape they are threatened
by inevitable death. In fact, Kali, having as his only weapon Gebhr's Sudânese sword, must
die of starvation, or if he did not fall again into the captivity of the dervishes would become
the prey of wild animals.

Ah! Ingrate and fool!

Stas then began to meditate over this;--how far more difficult and vexatious the journey without
Kali would be for them, and how much heavier the work. To water the horses and fetter them
for the night, to pitch the tent, build zarebas, watch during the journey that none of the
supplies and packets with things were lost, to flay and dress the slain animals, all this for
want of the young negro was to fall upon him and he admitted in his soul that as to some of
these employments, flaying the hides of animals, for instance, he did not have the slightest
knowledge.

"Ha! it will be hard," he said, "but necessary."

In the meantime the sun emerged from beyond the horizon and, as usually happens in the tropics,
in a moment it was day. Somewhat later the water for bathing, which Mea had prepared during
the night for the little lady, began to splash, which meant that Nell had risen and was dressing
herself. In fact, she soon appeared, already dressed, with a comb in her hand and her hair
still unkempt.

"And Saba?" she asked.

"He has not come yet."

The lips of the little girl at once began to quiver.

"He may yet return," said Stas. "You remember that on the desert sometimes he was not seen
for two days, and afterwards he always overtook us."

"You said that you would go and search for him."

"I cannot."

"Why, Stas?"

"I cannot leave you in the ravine alone with Mea."

"And Kali?"

"Kali is not here."

Stas was silent, not knowing whether to tell her the whole truth; but as the matter could not
be concealed he thought it best to divulge it at once.

"Kali took Gebhr's sword," he said, "and in the night went away; I do not know where. Who knows
whether he has not run away? The negroes often do that, even to their own destruction. I am
sorry for him--But he may understand that he has acted like a fool and--"

Further words were interrupted by Saba's joyful barking which filled the whole ravine. Nell
threw the comb on the ground and wanted to rush out to meet him. She was prevented, however,
by the thorns of the zareba.

Stas, with the greatest haste, began to scatter them about, but before he had opened a passage
Saba appeared and after him Kali, as shiny and wet from the dew as if after the greatest rain.

Immense joy possessed both children, and when Kali, out of breath from fatigue, came inside
the enclosure, Nell flung her white hands around his black neck and hugged him with all her
strength.

And he said:

"Kali did not want to see the 'bibi' cry, so Kali found the dog."

"Good boy, Kali!" answered Stas, slapping him on the shoulders. "Did you not fear in the night
that you would meet a lion or a panther?"

"Kali feared, but Kali went," answered the boy.

These words gained still more the hearts of the children. Stas, at Nell's request, took out
from one of the small pieces of luggage a string of glass beads with which they had been provided
by the Greek, Kaliopuli, on their departure from Omdurmân; with it he decorated Kali's splendid
throat; while the latter, overjoyed with the gift, glanced at once with pride at Mea and said:

"Mea has no beads and Kali has, for Kali is 'the great world.'"

In this manner was the devotion of the black boy rewarded. On the other hand Saba received
a sharp rebuke, from which, for the second time in Nell's service, he learned that he was perfectly
horrid, and that if he once more did anything like that he would be led by a string like a
puppy. He heard this, wagging his tail in quite an equivocal manner. Nell, however, claimed
that it could be seen from his eyes that he was ashamed and that he certainly blushed; only
this could not be seen because his mouth was covered with hair.

After this followed breakfast, consisting of excellent wild figs and a rump of venison. During
the breakfast Kali related his adventures, while Stas interpreted them in English for Nell
who did not understand the Kiswahili language. The buffalo, as it appeared, fled far. It was
difficult for Kali to find the tracks as it was a moonless night. Fortunately, rain had fallen
two days before and the ground was not too hard; in consequence of this the heavy animal's
hoofs left deep imprints upon it. Kali sought them with the aid of his toes and walked a long
distance. The buffalo finally fell and must have dropped dead as there was no sign of a fight
between him and Saba. When Kali found them Saba already had devoured the greater part of the
fore quarter of the buffalo, and although he was fully sated he would not permit the approach
of two hyenas and about a dozen of jackals, which stood waiting until the more powerful rapacious
creature finished his feast and left. The boy complained that the dog also growled at him,
but he then threatened him with the anger of the "great master" and the "bibi," after which
he grabbed him by the collar and dragged him from the buffalo, and did not let go of him until
they reached the ravine.

With this ended the narrative of Kali's nocturnal adventures, after which all in good humor
mounted their horses and proceeded on their journey.

One alone, long-limbed Mea, though quiet and meek, gazed with envy at the young negro's necklace
and Saba's collar, and with sorrow in her heart thought:

"Both of them are 'the great world,' and I have only a brass ring on one leg."

III

During the following three days they rode continuously in the ravine and always upwards. The
days were as a rule scorching, the nights alternately cool or sultry; the rainy season was
approaching. From beyond the horizon here and there emerged clouds, white as milk but deep
and heavy. At the sides could already be seen stripes of rain and distant rainbows. Towards
the morning of the third day one of these clouds burst above their heads like a barrel from
which the hoops had flown off and sprinkled them with a warm and copious rain which fortunately
was of brief duration. Afterwards the weather became fine and they could ride farther. Guinea-fowls
again appeared in such numbers that Stas shot at them without dismounting from his horse, and
in this manner got five, which more than sufficed for one meal, even counting Saba. Travel
in the refreshed air was not burdensome, and the abundance of game and water removed fears
of hunger and thirst. On the whole everything passed more easily than they had anticipated.
So then good humor did not desert Stas, and, riding beside the little girl, he chattered merrily
with her and at times even joked.

"Do you know, Nell," he said, when for a while he stopped the horses under a great bread-fruit
tree from which Kali and Mea cut off fruit resembling huge melons, "at times it seems to me
that I am a knight-errant."

"And what is a knight-errant?" asked Nell, turning her pretty head towards him.

"Long, long ago in the mediaeval days there were knights who rode over the world, looking for
adventure. They fought with giants and dragons, and do you know that each one had his lady,
whom he protected and defended?"

"And am I such a lady?"

Stas pondered for a while, after which he replied:

"No, you are too small. All those others were grown up."

And it never occurred to him that probably no knight-errant had ever performed as much for
his lady as he had done for his little sister. Plainly it appeared to him that whatever he
had done was done as a matter of course.

But Nell felt aggrieved at his words; so with a pout she said:

"And you once said in the desert that I acted like a person of thirteen. Aha!"

"Well, that was once. But you are eight."

"Then after ten years I shall be eighteen."

"A great thing! And I shall be twenty-four! At such age a man does not think of any ladies
for he has something else to do; that is self-evident."

"And what will you do?"

"I shall be an engineer or a sailor or, if there is a war in Poland, I shall go to fight, just
as my father did."

While she asked uneasily:

"But you will return to Port Said?"

"We both must return there first."

"To papa!" the little girl replied.

And her eyes were dimmed with sorrow and longing. Fortunately there flew at that moment a small
flock of wonderfully fine parrots, gray, with rosy heads, and a rosy lining under their wings.
The children at once forgot about their previous conversation and began to follow the flight
with their eyes.

The little flock circled about a group of euphorbias and lighted upon sycamores, growing at
some distance, amidst the branches of which resounded voices similar to a wordy conference
or a quarrel.

"Those are parrots which are very easily taught to talk," Stas said. "When we stop at a place
for a length of time, I will try to catch one for you."

"Oh, Stas, thank you!" answered Nell gleefully. "I will call it Daisy."

In the meantime Mea and Kali, having cut off fruit from the bread-fruit tree, loaded the horses
with it, and the little caravan proceeded. In the afternoon it began to cloud and at times
brief showers occurred, filling the crevices and the depressions in the earth. Kali predicted
a great downpour, so it occurred to Stas that the ravine, which was becoming narrower and narrower,
would not be a safe shelter for the night, for it could change into a torrent. For this reason
he determined to pass the night above, and this decision delighted Nell, particularly when
Kali, who was sent to reconnoitre, returned and announced that not far away was a small grove
composed of various trees, and in it many monkeys, not as ugly as the baboons which up to that
time they had met.

Chancing thereafter upon a place at which the rocky walls were low and sloped gradually, he
led the horses out, and before it grew dark they built a barricade for the night. Nell's tent
stood on a high and dry spot close to a big white-ant hillock, which barred the access from
one side and for that reason lessened the labor of building the zareba.

Near-by stood a large tree with widely spread boughs which, covered by dense foliage, furnished
shelter against rain. In front of the zareba grew single clumps of trees and further a thick
forest entangled with climbing plants, beyond which loftily shot out crowns of strange palm
trees resembling gigantic fans or outspread peacock tails.

Stas learned from Kali that before the second rainy season, that is, in autumn, it was dangerous
to pass the night under these palm trees, for the huge-fruit, at that time ripe, breaks off
unexpectedly and falls from a considerable distance with such force that it can kill a person
or even a horse. At present, however, the fruit was in bud, and in the distance before the
sun set there could be seen, under the crowns, agile little monkeys, which, leaping gaily,
chased each other.

Stas, with Kali, prepared a great supply of wood, sufficient for the whole night, and, as at
times strong blasts of hot air broke out, they reinforced the zareba with pickets which the
young negro whittled with Gebhr's sword and stuck in the ground. This precaution was not at
all superfluous, as a powerful whirlwind could scatter the thorny boughs with which the zareba
was constructed and facilitate an attack by beasts of prey.

However, immediately after sunset the wind ceased, and instead, the air became sultry and heavy.
Through the rifts in the clouds the stars glittered here and there, but afterwards the night
became so utterly dark that one could not see a step ahead. The little wanderers grouped about
the fire, while their ears were assailed by the loud cries and shrieks of monkeys who in the
adjacent forest created a veritable bedlam. This was accompanied by the whining of jackals
and by various other voices in which could be recognized uneasiness and fright before something
which under the cover of darkness threatened every living being in the wilderness.

Suddenly the voices subsided for in the dusky depths resounded the groans of a lion. The horses,
which were pastured at some distance on the young jungle, began to approach the fire, starting
up suddenly on their fettered fore legs, while the hair on Saba, who usually was so brave,
bristled, and with tail curled under him, he nestled close to the people, evidently seeking
their protection.

The groaning again resounded, as though it came from under the ground; deep, heavy, strained,
as if the beast with difficulty drew it from its powerful lungs. It proceeded lowly over the
ground, alternately increased and subsided, passing at times into a hollow, prodigiously mournful
moan.

"Kali, throw fuel into the fire," commanded Stas.

The negro threw upon the camp-fire an armful of boughs so hastily that at first whole sheaves
of sparks burst out, after which a high flame shot up.

"Stas, the lion will not attack us, will he?" whispered Nell, pulling the boy by the sleeve.

"No, he will not attack us. See how high the zareba is."

And speaking thus, he actually believed that danger did not threaten them, but he was alarmed
about the horses, which pressed more and more closely to the fence and might trample it down.

In the meantime the groans changed into the protracted, thunderous roar by which all living
creatures are struck with terror, and the nerves of people, who do not know what fear is, shake,
just as the window-panes rattle from distant cannonading.

Stas cast a fleeting glance at Nell, and seeing her quivering chin and moist eyes, said:

"Do not fear; don't cry."

