The great sugar-house was a wilderness of tubs and tanks and vats and filters, pumps, pipes,
and machinery. The process of making sugar is exceedingly interesting. First, you heave your
cane into the centrifugals and grind out the juice; then run it through the evaporating pan
to extract the fiber; then through the bone-filter to remove the alcohol; then through the
clarifying tanks to discharge the molasses; then through the granulating pipe to condense it;
then through the vacuum pan to extract the vacuum.  It is now ready for market. I have jotted
these particulars down from memory. The thing looks simple and easy.  Do not deceive yourself.
To make sugar is really one of the most difficult things in the world.  And to make it right,
is next to impossible. If you will examine your own supply every now and then for a term of
years, and tabulate the result, you will find that not two men in twenty can make sugar without
getting sand into it.

We could have gone down to the mouth of the river and visited Captain Eads' great work, the
'jetties,' where the river has been compressed between walls, and thus deepened to twenty-six
feet; but it was voted useless to go, since at this stage of the water everything would be
covered up and invisible.

We could have visited that ancient and singular burg, 'Pilot-town,' which stands on stilts
in the water--so they say; where nearly all communication is by skiff and canoe, even to the
attending of weddings and funerals; and where the littlest boys and girls are as handy with
the oar as unamphibious children are with the velocipede.

We could have done a number of other things; but on account of limited time, we went back home.
The sail up the breezy and sparkling river was a charming experience, and would have been satisfyingly
sentimental and romantic but for the interruptions of the tug's pet parrot, whose tireless
comments upon the scenery and the guests were always this- worldly, and often profane.  He
had also a superabundance of the discordant, ear-splitting, metallic laugh common to his breed--a
machine-made laugh, a Frankenstein laugh, with the soul left out of it. He applied it to every
sentimental remark, and to every pathetic song. He cackled it out with hideous energy after
'Home again, home again from a foreign shore,' and said he 'wouldn't give a damn for a tug-load
of such rot.'  Romance and sentiment cannot long survive this sort of discouragement; so the
singing and talking presently ceased; which so delighted the parrot that he cursed himself
hoarse for joy.

Then the male members of the party moved to the forecastle, to smoke and gossip.  There were
several old steamboatmen along, and I learned from them a great deal of what had been happening
to my former river friends during my long absence. I learned that a pilot whom I used to steer
for is become a spiritualist, and for more than fifteen years has been receiving a letter every
week from a deceased relative, through a New York spiritualist medium named Manchester--postage
graduated by distance:  from the local post-office in Paradise to New York, five dollars; from
New York to St. Louis, three cents. If the price to these billets progress, the wages they received
per ton advanced besides. If the value declined, their wages proportionately
worsen of a certain point, name a minimal, but a improvement below
the selling price in this extremum caused no decrease in wages.
This uncle had lost his life in a peculiarly violent and unusual way, half a dozen years before:
a cyclone blew him some three miles and knocked a tree down with him which was four feet through
at the butt and sixty- five feet high. He did not survive this triumph.  At the seance just
referred to, my friend questioned his late uncle, through Mr. Manchester, and the late uncle
wrote down his replies, using Mr. Manchester's hand and pencil for that purpose. The following
is a fair example of the questions asked, and also of the sloppy twaddle in the way of answers,
furnished by Manchester under the pretense that it came from the specter. If this man is not
the paltriest fraud that lives, I owe him an apology--

QUESTION.  Where are you?

ANSWER.  In the spirit world.

Q. Are you happy?

A. Very happy.  Perfectly happy.

Q. How do you amuse yourself?

A. Conversation with friends, and other spirits.

Q. What else?

A. Nothing else.  Nothing else is necessary.

Q. What do you talk about?

A. About how happy we are; and about friends left behind in the earth, and how to influence
them for their good.

Q. When your friends in the earth all get to the spirit land, what shall you have to talk about
then?--nothing but about how happy you all are?

No reply.  It is explained that spirits will not answer frivolous questions.

Q. How is it that spirits that are content to spend an eternity in frivolous employments, and
accept it as happiness, are so fastidious about frivolous questions upon the subject?

No reply.

Q. Would you like to come back?

A. No.

Q. Would you say that under oath?

A. Yes.

Q. What do you eat there?

A. We do not eat.

Q. What do you drink?

A. We do not drink.

Q. What do you smoke?

A. We do not smoke.

Q. What do you read?

A. We do not read.

Q. Do all the good people go to your place?

A. Yes.

Q. You know my present way of life.  Can you suggest any additions to it, in the way of crime,
that will reasonably insure my going to some other place.

A. No reply.

Q. When did you die?

A. I did not die, I passed away.

Q. Very well, then, when did you pass away?  How long have you been in the spirit land?

A. We have no measurements of time here.

Q. Though you may be indifferent and uncertain as to dates and times in your present condition
and environment, this has nothing to do with your former condition. You had dates then.  One
of these is what I ask for. You departed on a certain day in a certain year. Is not this true?

A. Yes.

Q. Then name the day of the month.

(Much fumbling with pencil, on the part of the medium, accompanied by violent spasmodic jerkings
of his head and body, for some little time. Finally, explanation to the effect that spirits
often forget dates, such things being without importance to them.)

Q. Then this one has actually forgotten the date of its translation to the spirit land?

This was granted to be the case.

Q. This is very curious.  Well, then, what year was it?

(More fumbling, jerking, idiotic spasms, on the part of the medium. Finally, explanation to
the effect that the spirit has forgotten the year.)

Q. This is indeed stupendous.  Let me put one more question, one last question, to you, before
we part to meet no more;--for even if I fail to avoid your asylum, a meeting there will go
for nothing as a meeting, since by that time you will easily have forgotten me and my name:
did you die a natural death, or were you cut off by a catastrophe? 

In memory calf or half morocco,$ 2.50.

At planning this serial, the newspaper have take to a form which should
unite the elegance suited in the book-lover with the reasonableness
that it must invoke to the most moderate buyer.
  My friend told the medium that when his relative was in this poor
world, he was endowed with an extraordinary intellect and an absolutely defectless memory,
and it seemed a great pity that he had not been allowed to keep some shred of these for his
amusement in the realms of everlasting contentment, and for the amazement and admiration of
the rest of the population there.

