And so Melanctha began once more to wander. It was all now for her very different. It was never
rougher men now that she talked to, and she did not care much now to know white men of the,
for her, very better classes. It was now something realler that Melanctha wanted, something
that would move her very deeply, something that would fill her fully with the wisdom that was
planted now within her, and that she wanted badly, should really wholly fill her.

Melanctha these days wandered very widely. She was always alone now when she wandered. Melanctha
did not need help now to know, or to stay longer, or when she wanted, to escape.

Melanctha tried a great many men, in these days before she was really suited. It was almost
a year that she wandered and then she met with a young mulatto. He was a doctor who had just
begun to practice. He would most likely do well in the future, but it was not this that concerned
Melanctha. She found him good and strong and gentle and very intellectual, and all her life
Melanctha liked and wanted good and considerate people, and then too he did not at first believe
in Melanctha. He held off and did not know what it was that Melanctha wanted. Melanctha came
to want him very badly. They began to know each other better. Things began to be very strong
between them. Melanctha wanted him so badly that now she never wandered. She just gave herself
to this experience.

Melanctha Herbert was now, all alone, in Bridgepoint. She lived now with this colored woman
and now with that one, and she sewed, and sometimes she taught a little in a colored school
as substitute for some teacher. Melanctha had now no home nor any regular employment. Life
was just commencing for Melanctha. She had youth and had learned wisdom, and she was graceful
and pale yellow and very pleasant, and always ready to do things for people, and she was mysterious
in her ways and that only made belief in her more fervent.

During the year before she met Jefferson Campbell, Melanctha had tried many kinds of men but
they had none of them interested Melanctha very deeply. She met them, she was much with them,
she left them, she would think perhaps this next time it would be more exciting, and always
she found that for her it all had no real meaning. She could now do everything she wanted,
she knew now everything that everybody wanted, and yet it all had no excitement for her. With
these men, she knew she could learn nothing. She wanted some one that could teach her very
deeply and now at last she was sure that she had found him, yes she really had it, before she
had thought to look if in this man she would find it.

During this year 'Mis' Herbert as her neighbors called her, Melanctha's pale yellow mother
was very sick, and in this year she died.

Melanctha's father during these last years did not come very often to the house where his wife
lived and Melanctha. Melanctha was not sure that her father was now any longer here in Bridgepoint.
It was Melanctha who was very good now to her mother. It was always Melanctha's way to be good
to any one in trouble.

Melanctha took good care of her mother. She did everything that any woman could, she tended
and soothed and helped her pale yellow mother, and she worked hard in every way to take care
of her, and make her dying easy. But Melanctha did not in these days like her mother any better,
and her mother never cared much for this daughter who was always a hard child to manage, and
who had a tongue that always could be very nasty.

Melanctha did everything that any woman could, and at last her mother died, and Melanctha had
her buried. Melanctha's father was not heard from, and Melanctha in all her life after, never
saw or heard or knew of anything that her father did.

It was the young doctor, Jefferson Campbell, who helped Melanctha toward the end, to take care
of her sick mother. Jefferson Campbell had often before seen Melanctha Herbert, but he had
never liked her very well, and he had never believed that she was any good. He had heard something
about how she wandered. He knew a little too of Jane Harden, and he was sure that this Melanctha
Herbert, who was her friend and who wandered, would never come to any good.

Dr. Jefferson Campbell was a serious, earnest, good young joyous doctor. He liked to take care
of everybody and he loved his own colored people. He always found life very easy did Jeff Campbell,
and everybody liked to have him with them. He was so good and sympathetic, and he was so earnest
and so joyous. He sang when he was happy, and he laughed, and his was the free abandoned laughter
that gives the warm broad glow to negro sunshine.

Jeff Campbell had never yet in his life had real trouble. Jefferson's father was a good, kind,
serious, religious man. He was a very steady, very intelligent, and very dignified, light brown,
grey haired negro. He was a butler and he had worked for the Campbell family many years, and
his father and his mother before him had been in the service of this family as free people.

Jefferson Campbell's father and his mother had of course been regularly married. Jefferson's
mother was a sweet, little, pale brown, gentle woman who reverenced and obeyed her good husband,
and who worshipped and admired and loved hard her-good, earnest, cheery, hard working doctor
boy who was her only child.

Jeff Campbell had been raised religious by his people but religion had never interested Jeff
very much. Jefferson was very good. He loved his people and he never hurt them, and he always
did everything they wanted and that he could to please them, but he really loved best science
and experimenting and to learn things, and he early wanted to be a doctor, and he was always
very interested in the life of the colored people.

The Campbell family had been very good to him and had helped him on with his ambition. Jefferson
studied hard, he went to a colored college, and then he learnt to be a doctor.

It was now two or three years, that he had started in to practice. Everybody liked Jeff Campbell,
he was so strong and kindly and cheerful and understanding, and he laughed so with pure joy,
and he always liked to help all his own colored people.

Dr. Jeff knew all about Jane Harden. He had taken care of her in some of her bad trouble. He
knew about Melanctha too, though until her mother was taken sick he had never met her. Then
he was called in to help Melanctha to take care of her sick mother. Dr. Campbell did not like
Melanctha's ways and he did not think that she would ever come to any good.

Dr. Campbell had taken care of Jane Harden in some of her bad trouble. Jane sometimes had abused
Melanctha to him. What right had that Melanctha Herbert who owed everything to her, Jane Harden,
what right had a girl like that to go away to other men and leave her, but Melanctha Herbert
never had any sense of how to act to anybody. Melanctha had a good mind, Jane never denied
her that, but she never used it to do anything decent with it. But what could you expect when
Melanctha had such a brute of a black nigger father, and Melanctha was always abusing her father
and yet she was just like him, and really she admired him so much and he never had any sense
of what he owed to anybody, and Melanctha was just like him and she was proud of it too, and
it made Jane so tired to hear Melanctha talk all the time as if she wasn't. Jane Harden hated
people who had good minds and didn't use them, and Melanctha always had that weakness, and
wanting to keep in with people, and never really saying that she wanted to be like her father,
and it was so silly of Melanctha to abuse her father, when she was so much like him and she
really liked it. No, Jane Harden had no use for Melanctha. Oh yes, Melanctha always came around
to be good to her. Melanctha was always sure to do that. She never really went away and left
one. She didn't use her mind enough to do things straight out like that. Melanctha Herbert
had a good mind, Jane never denied that to her, but she never wanted to see or hear about Melanctha
Herbert any more, and she wished Melanctha wouldn't come in any more to see her. She didn't
hate her, but she didn't want to hear about her father and all that talk Melanctha always made,
and that just meant nothing to her. Jane Harden was very tired of all that now. She didn't
have any use now any more for Melanctha, and if Dr. Campbell saw her he better tell her Jane
didn't want to see her, and she could take her talk to somebody else, who was ready to believe
her. And then Jane Harden would drop away and forget Melanctha and all her life before, and
then she would begin to drink and so she would cover everything all over.

Jeff Campbell heard all this very often, but it did not interest him very deeply. He felt no
desire to know more of this Melanctha. He heard her, once, talking to another girl outside
of the house, when he was paying a visit to Jane Harden. He did not see much in the talk that
he heard her do. He did not see much in the things Jane Harden said when she abused Melanctha
to him. He was more interested in Jane herself than in anything he heard about Melanctha. He
knew Jane Harden had a good mind, and she had had power, and she could really have done things,
and now this drinking covered everything all over. Jeff Campbell was always very sorry when
he had to see it. Jane Harden was a roughened woman, and yet Jeff found a great many strong
good things in her, that still made him like her.

Jeff Campbell did everything he could for Jane Harden. He did not care much to hear about Melanctha.
He had no feeling, much, about her. He did not find that he took any interest in her. Jane
Harden was so much a stronger woman, and Jane really had had a good mind, and she had used
it to do things with it, before this drinking business had taken such a hold upon her.

Dr. Campbell was helping Melanctha Herbert to take care of her sick mother. He saw Melanctha
now for long times and very often, and they sometimes talked a good deal together, but Melanctha
never said anything to him about Jane Harden. She never talked to him about anything that was
not just general matters, or about medicine, or to tell him funny stories. She asked him many
questions and always listened very well to all he told her, and she always remembered everything
she heard him say about doctoring, and she always remembered everything that she had learned
from all the others.

Jeff Campbell never found that all this talk interested him very deeply. He did not find that
he liked Melanctha when he saw her so much, any better. He never found that he thought much
about Melanctha. He never found that he believed much in her having a good mind, like Jane
Harden. He found he liked Jane Harden always better, and that he wished very much that she
had never begun that bad drinking.

Melanctha Herbert's mother was now always getting sicker. Melanctha really did everything that
any woman could. Melanctha's mother never liked her daughter any better. She never said much,
did 'Mis' Herbert, but anybody could see that she did not think much of this daughter.

Dr. Campbell now often had to stay a long time to take care of 'Mis' Herbert. One day 'Mis'
Herbert was much sicker and Dr. Campbell thought that this night, she would surely die. He
came back late to the house, as he had said he would, to sit up and watch 'Mis' Herbert, and
to help Melanctha, if she should need anybody to be with her. Melanctha Herbert and Jeff Campbell
sat up all that night together. 'Mis' Herbert did not die. The next day she was a little better.

