JEAN HAS A SURPRISE AND GIVES ONE                  27

 III. GIUSIPPE TELLS A STORY                             50

  IV. UNCLE BOB ENLARGES HIS PARTY                       66

   V. GIUSIPPE ENCOUNTERS AN OLD FRIEND                  83

  VI. UNCLE BOB AS STORY TELLER                          99

 VII. AMERICA ONCE MORE                                 121

VIII. JEAN THREATENS TO STEAL GIUSIPPE'S TRADE          140

  IX. A REUNION                                         163

   X. TWO UNCLES AND A NEW HOME                         182

  XI. JEAN'S TELEGRAM AND WHAT IT SAID                  208

 XII. JEAN AND GIUSIPPE EACH FIND A NICHE IN LIFE       220

Illustrations

                                                       Page

THE THRONG OF MOVING WORKMEN                  Frontispiece

"EVERY ONE KNOWS ME AT THE GLASS WORKS"                  47

"I KNEW HER IN VENICE"                                   95

"IT IS SHAPED TO THE FORM REQUIRED"                     160

"THE MELT IS POURED OUT ON AN IRON TABLE"               202

"I WANT THESE ORDERS FILLED"                            223

THE STORY OF GLASS

CHAPTER I

A FRIENDLY FEUD

Jean Cabot "lived around." She did not live around because nobody wanted her, however; on the
contrary, she lived around because so many people wanted her. Both her father and mother had
died when Jean was a baby and so until she was twelve years old she had been brought up by
a cousin of her mother's. Then the cousin had married a missionary and had gone to teach the
children in China, and China, as you will agree, was no place for an American girl to go to
school. Therefore Jean was sent to Boston and put in charge of her uncle, Mr. Robert Cabot.
Uncle Bob was delighted with the arrangement, for they were great friends, Jean and this boy-uncle
of hers.

But no sooner did she arrive in Boston and settle down to live on Beacon Hill than up rose
Uncle Tom Curtis, Jean's other uncle, who lived in Pittsburgh. He made a dreadful fuss because
Jean had gone to Uncle Bob's to live. He wanted her out in Pittsburgh, and he wrote that Fräulein
Decker, who was his housekeeper, and had been governess to Jean's own mother, wanted her too.

That started Hannah, Uncle Bob's housekeeper.

"The very idea," she said, "of that German woman thinking they want Jean in Pittsburgh as much
as we want her here in Boston. Didn't I bring up Jean's father, I'd like to know; and her Uncle
Bob as well? I guess I can be trusted to bring up another Cabot. It's ridiculous--that's what
it is--perfectly ree-diculous!" That was Hannah's favorite expression--"Ree-diculous!" "I'd
like my job," went on Hannah, "sending that precious child to Pittsburgh where her white dresses
would get all grimed up with coal soot."

But Hannah's scorn of Pittsburgh did not settle the matter.

Instead Mr. Carleton, Uncle Tom Curtis's lawyer, came to Boston as fast as he could get there
and one afternoon presented himself at Uncle Bob's house on Beacon Hill. Uncle Bob was in the
library when he arrived and the two men sat down before the fire, for it was a chilly day in
early spring. After they had said a few pleasant things about the weather, and Uncle Bob had
inquired for Uncle Tom, they really got started on what they wanted to say and my--how they
did talk! It was all good-natured talk, for Uncle Bob liked Uncle Tom Curtis very much; nevertheless
Uncle Bob and Uncle Tom's lawyer did talk pretty hard and pretty fast, for they had lots of
things to say.

At last Uncle Bob Cabot rose from his leather chair and going to the fireplace gave the blazing
logs a vicious little poke.

He was becoming nettled. Anybody could see that.

"The Curtises have not a whit more title to the child than I have," he burst out. "You are
a lawyer, Carleton, and you know that. I am just as much Jean's uncle as Tom Curtis is; in
fact I think I am more her uncle because I am her father's own brother. I'm a Cabot, and so
is Jean. I should think that ought to be enough. Who would she live with, if not with the Cabots?"

Mr. Carleton cleared his throat.

"You certainly have a strong claim to the little girl," he agreed. "But you see my other client
puts up an equally convincing story. In fact, he uses almost your identical words. He says
he is Jean's mother's own brother, and argues no one can have a closer right than that."

"But what does he know about bringing up a little girl? Isn't he an old bachelor?"

"You are not married yourself, Mr. Cabot."

"Well, no. So I'm not. However, that's neither here nor there. Tom Curtis is fifty if he's
a day. He is too old to bring up a child, Carleton."

"He complains that you are only thirty, and too young."

Mr. Robert Cabot, who was walking excitedly about the room, turned quickly.

"But I have Hannah. You do not know Hannah or you would feel differently. It is hard to tell
you what Hannah is. You just have to know her. She is the mainspring of my household. Not only
does she cook, clean, mend, and market for me; she does a score of things besides. Why, I couldn't
live without her. She is one of those motherly souls whose wisdom is of the sages. She has
been in our family since I was a baby. Most of my bringing up, in fact, was due to her and,"
he added whimsically, "behold the work of her hands!"

Mr. Carleton smiled.

"I cannot deny the product is good, Mr. Cabot. But again, all these arguments you put forth
Mr. Tom Curtis also reëchoes in behalf of his German Fräulein. She too has been for years in
the Curtis family and brought up their children, and Mr. Curtis feels that since she trained
Jean's mother she is eminently the person to train Jean."

"Humph!"

"The claims seem about equal."

"No, they're not. That's where you are wrong. Allowing everything else to be equal even you
must grant that there is one serious objection of which you have not spoken. Mr. Tom Curtis
lives in Pittsburgh! That is enough to overthrow the whole thing. Pittsburgh! Think of bringing
up a child in Pittsburgh when she could be brought up in Boston. Boston, my good man, is intellectually--well,
of course I do not wish to appear prejudiced, but you will, I am sure, admit that Boston----"

Mr. Bob Cabot dropped helplessly into his chair, leaving the sentence unfinished. There seemed
to be no words in the English language adequate to express what, in Mr. Bob Cabot's estimation,
Boston actually was.

Mr. Carleton started to laugh, but after glancing furtively at Mr. Bob Cabot he changed his
mind and coughed instead.

"We all grant Boston is without an intellectual peer," he answered with a grave inclination
of his head. "Even I, who was born in Indiana, grant that, although out in my state we think
we run you a close second. Boston moreover has a background of which we in the West cannot
boast--history, you know, and all that sort of thing. It would be a great privilege for little
Miss Jean Cabot to receive a home and an education in Boston. There are, however, many fine
things in Pittsburgh; it is not all soot, or panting factories."

"I suppose not. Jean's mother was a Pittsburgh girl, and certainly she was a wonderful type
of woman. Yet you cannot tell what result a Boston environment might have had on such a nature
as hers. She might have been even nearer perfection. Yet after all she was quite fine enough
for human clay, Carleton, quite fine enough. And the little girl promises to be like her--an
uncommonly sweet, gentle child, and pretty, too--very pretty. To send her to Pittsburgh--hang
it all! Why must Tom Curtis live in Pittsburgh?"

"Mr. Curtis, as you seem to have forgotten, Mr. Cabot, is the owner of one of the largest plate
glass factories in the country. He has built up a fortune by his business and he is no more
ready to hurl his life's work to the winds and come to Boston to live than you are to toss
aside your own business and move to Pittsburgh. And by the way, speaking of business, Mr. Cabot,
if it does not seem an impertinent question, what is your business?"

"My business? Well, for a good many years my chief business seemed to be getting over a bad
knee I got when playing tackle on the Harvard football eleven. We wiped up the ground with
Yale, though, so it was worth it. Of late I spend more or less time in seeing that Hannah does
not feed me too well and starve herself. Part of my business, too, is to argue with disagreeable
old lawyers like yourself, Carleton." Mr. Bob Cabot chuckled. "When I am not doing some of
these things and have the surplus time I am incidentally an interior decorator. Oh, I do not
go out papering and painting; oh dear, no! I just tell other people how to spend a fortune
furnishing their houses. I advise brocade hangings, Italian marbles and every sort of rare
and beautiful thing, and since I do not have these luxuries to pay for I find my vocation a
tremendously interesting one."

"You have set a worthy example in your own house," observed Mr. Carleton, glancing about with
admiration.

"Oh, I've done a little--not much. I like the old landscape paper in this library; some of
my antique furniture, too, is rather nice. I picked up many of the best pieces in the South.
The house itself came to me from my father, and I have altered it very little, as I was anxious
to keep its old colonial atmosphere. Hannah and I live here most peacefully with a waitress
and inside man to help us. With Jean added to the household we shall have just the touch of
young life that we need. I am very fond of children, and----"

"You seem very certain that Jean is to settle with you, Mr. Cabot. Now let me own up to something;
although Mr. Tom Curtis sent me to have this talk with you and pave the way, it chances--no,
chance is not the right word--on the contrary it is an intentional fact that Mr. Tom Curtis
is at this very moment here in Boston."

Mr. Bob Cabot started.

"Tom Curtis here!"

"Yes. He is putting up at the University Club, and he wanted me to ask you if you would be
so good as to dine there with him to-night."

"So he has come over to enter the fray himself, has he? Well, well! Why didn't he come right
here? Of course I'll join him. I always liked Tom Curtis. The only things I have against him
are that he will live in Pittsburgh--and that he wants Jean."

Mr. Carleton rose with satisfaction. At least part of his mission had been successfully accomplished.
He could afford to overlook the slur on Pittsburgh which, as it happened, was his home as well
as that of Mr. Tom Curtis.

"Then I'll call up Mr. Curtis," he said, "and tell him he may expect you. Will seven o'clock
be all right?"

"Certainly. I suppose I shall not see you again, Carleton?"

Mr. Carleton hesitated.

"It is just possible that I may drop in on you and Mr. Curtis after dinner."

"Oh, I see. A plot."

"Not at all. I have some business to settle with Mr. Curtis before I return to Pittsburgh."

"Going back to that grimy coal hole, are you?" blustered Mr. Bob Cabot. "How you fellows can
live there when you might spend your days in Bost----"

The door slammed.

Mr. Carleton was gone.

Shrugging his shoulders Mr. Bob Cabot glanced at the clock. He had just about time to dash
off a necessary letter, dress, and get to the University Club.

"Hannah!" he called.

A small dark-haired woman appeared in the doorway. She had sharp little black eyes that twinkled
a great deal, and she had a mouth that turned up at the corners; furthermore she had a plump
figure neatly dressed in gray, and a white apron tied behind in an enormous and very spirited bow.

"Yes, Mr. Bob."

"Hannah, Mr. Tom Curtis is in town with a rascal of a lawyer. They have come to see about taking
Jean to live in Pittsburgh."

"Pittsburgh! My soul, Mr. Bob! You'll not let her go, of course. Pittsburgh, indeed! Don't
we know that Boston----"

"We certainly do, Hannah. Nobody knows what Boston is better than we do. But Mr. Tom Curtis
unfortunately was not born in Boston."

"More's the pity! Still, I suppose he cannot be blamed for that. It wasn't really his fault."

Mr. Bob Cabot laughed and dropped a big, kindly hand on the shoulder of the woman beside him.

"I will try and impress upon him all that he has missed when I see him to-night. I am to dine
with him at the University Club at seven."

"You're not dining out!" ejaculated Hannah in dismay.

"I'm afraid so."

"Oh, Mr. Bob! And fried chicken for dinner--just the way you like it, too."

"I'm sorry, Hannah."

"And me browning all those sweet potatoes!"

"I'm lots more disappointed than you are--truly I am. It can't be helped, though. Now let me
finish this letter and you go and lay out my dress shirt and studs and things, or I'll be late."

Hannah darted from the room.

"I made you a Brown Betty pudding, too, Mr. Bob!" she called over her shoulder. "But no matter.
There is no evil without some good; your trousers are freshly pressed and handsome as pictures--if
I do say it as shouldn't. I'll lay 'em out for you, and your dinner coat as well. But to think
of that pudding! Why couldn't Mr. Curtis have invited you the night the beef stew was scorched."

                     *        *        *        *

Promptly on the stroke of seven Uncle Bob Cabot presented himself at the University Club, where
Uncle Tom Curtis was waiting for him, and the two men grasped hands cordially. How big Uncle
Tom Curtis looked and, despite Hannah's remarks, how rosy and how clean! And what a nice smile
he had! The dinner was extraordinarily good. The filet was done to a turn, and there was just
enough seasoning on the mushrooms. As for the grilled potatoes, even Hannah herself couldn't
have improved upon them. An old Harvard "grad" came over from the next table and greeted Uncle
Tom Curtis, telling him he did not look a day older than when he was in college, and in spite
of his gray hairs Uncle Tom Curtis seemed to believe it. Then they talked of the last Harvard
boat race; the winning eleven; the D. K. E. with its initiation pranks; and the old professors.
And after the other man had left the waiter brought coffee which was deliciously hot and cheese
that was exactly ripe enough. Uncle Tom Curtis seemed to have no end of stories at which Uncle
Bob Cabot laughed until he was very red in the face, and afterward Uncle Bob told some stories
and Uncle Tom Curtis sat back in his chair and laughed and wiped his eyes and mopped his forehead.
Then Uncle Bob said that of course the Club was all very well, but he should insist on Uncle
Tom's tossing his things into his grip and coming over to Beacon Hill with him to finish up
his Boston visit.

They did not talk about Jean any more that night, but the next morning after breakfast they
went at the discussion and were just in the midst of it when who should walk in but Jean herself.
She had been spending two or three days with a friend of her mother who lived in the suburbs.

"Uncle Bob!" she called as she dashed her hat and muff down upon the settle in the hall. "Uncle
Bob! Oh, I had a perfectly lovely time. And what do you think! Mrs. Chandler has three darling
Irish terrier puppies, and she is going to give me one if you are willing that I should have
it. You do like puppies, don't you? I know you'd like these anyway; they are so blinky, and
fat, and little."

Tossing her coat on top of the hat and muff she ran up the front stairs and into the library.

"Why, Uncle Tom Curtis!" she cried. "Whatever brought you here?"

Fluttering to the big man's side she gave him a prodigious hug and at the same time dropped
a butterfly kiss on the top of his shiny bald head. The next instant she was perched on the
arm of Uncle Bob's chair, eyeing her two uncles expectantly.

"You both look so hot and so--well, almost cross, you know. What is the matter?"

"We are talking about you, honey," ventured Uncle Bob after a short, uneasy silence.

"About me! And it makes you look as solemn and ruffled up as this? Whatever have I done? Did
Mrs. Chandler telephone you about the puppy? Don't worry. I do not mind if I don't have it--really
I don't."

"No, dear, it wasn't the puppy. You shall have all the puppies you want so far as I'm concerned,"
Uncle Bob answered, stroking the tiny hand that nestled in his. "No, your Uncle Tom and I were
talking about where you are to live."

"But I thought I was to live here."

"I thought so too," agreed Uncle Bob. "Uncle Tom, though, is not satisfied with that arrangement.
He says he wants you to come and live with him."

"But I couldn't leave you, Uncle Bob--you know that; at least, not for all the time. If there
were only two of me and I could live with each of you how nice it would be. Of course I'd love
to be with Uncle Tom sometimes. Why couldn't I live with one of you part of the time and with
the other the rest of the year? I'd rather be here in the summer, though, I think, because
it's near the ocean."

How simple the great tangle over which the two men had argued suddenly seemed!

"Jean has settled it herself!" Uncle Tom exclaimed. "It shall be Pittsburgh winters and Boston
summers. I wonder we didn't solve it that way in the beginning."

So everybody was pleased. Even Hannah admitted that if that was the best that could be done
she would put up with it; but she made Uncle Tom Curtis promise to lay in a big supply of soap.

"You must scrub her face and hands three times a day, and at least once between meals if she
is to live in Pittsburgh," remarked she. "And please remember to have the grime soaked out
of her white dresses, Mr. Curtis. Borax and a little ammonia will do it," she concluded seriously.

"We will wash not only the clothes in ammonia water, but Jean if you say so, Hannah," promised
Uncle Tom.

At this everybody laughed.

Then by and by they had luncheon, and Uncle Tom Curtis said it was a much better meal than
he had had at the Club the night before; and Hannah said that maybe Pittsburgh was not so black
as it was painted; and Uncle Bob said he'd send the inside man to the Chandlers' to get the
puppy that very afternoon. And he did. And the puppy came, and he was very small, and very
fat, and very wobbly. His head was much too large for him and so were his feet.

"You must name him Beacon Hill and call him Beacon for short, Jean," said Uncle Tom Curtis--which,
coming from Uncle Tom Curtis, who thought there was no place on earth like Pittsburgh, was
a generous condescension.

CHAPTER II

JEAN HAS A SURPRISE AND GIVES ONE

Uncle Tom Curtis returned to Pittsburgh the next day, leaving Jean and Beacon to stay with
Uncle Bob until October. It was now April, and on the Common and Public Garden the trees, which
were beginning to break into delicate foliage, were invaded by scores of scampering gray squirrels
so tame that they would eat out of one's hand. Often in the morning when Jean walked to the
office with Uncle Bob she would stop to feed these hungry little creatures and also the flocks
of friendly pigeons clustering along the walks. Of course Beacon had to be left behind when
the family went on such strolls, for he was far too fond of chasing everything he saw; afternoon
was his gala time. Then, while Jean flew on roller skates along the broad asphalt Esplanade
bordering the Charles River, Beacon would race up and down dodging the skaters, playing with
the children, and nearly tripping up the throngs of nurse-maids who trundled their wee charges
in the bright sunshine.

How quickly the days passed!

Already the Beacon Hill house had become a real home, and Uncle Bob dearer each moment she
stayed in it.

"You know, Uncle Bob, you would be really perfect if only you liked dolls and could tie hair
ribbons," said Jean teasingly.

Uncle Bob shook his head ruefully.

"I never could care for sawdust people," said he, "when there were so many interesting real
ones in the world. As for the hair ribbons, perhaps I might learn to tie those in time, although
I doubt if I ever could make as perky a bow as Hannah does. I like the perk but I haven't the
faintest idea how to get it."

Jean laughed.

She and her uncle had many a joke together.

"He is better at a joke than Uncle Tom is," confided Jean to Hannah.

In fact Uncle Bob joked so much that it was hard to tell when he was serious, and so one day
when he came into the library where Jean was and swept all the dolls on the couch over into
the corner, laughingly demanding how Jean would like to go to Europe, she paid no attention to him.

"Seems to me you are not a very enthusiastic or grateful young woman," said he at last tweaking
a curl that hung low on her cheek. "Here I am inviting you to tour the world with me and all
you say is: 'I'll think about it!' How's that for gratitude?"

"If you had any intention of taking me I might be more grateful," Jean answered, fastening
the gown of the doll she was dressing, and holding her at arm's length to enjoy the effect.

"But I am entirely serious, my young friend; I never was more so. I am imploring you to go
to Italy, for go I must, and I have no mind to leave you behind."

"To Italy? To real Italy, Uncle Bob? Do you mean it?"

"I surely do, dear child. Behold me, solemn as an owl. Ah, now you begin to listen. It would
serve you right if I should refuse to take such an ungrateful lady. What say you? Should you
like to go?"

"Like it! I'd love it! I've never been on an ocean trip in all my life."

"You may not care to go on another after you've been on this one," chuckled Uncle Bob. "However,
the fact remains that we are going. I have charge of decorating a very beautiful house in the
suburbs and I am going over to Florence to order some marble stairways and fireplaces. That
is my excuse. Incidentally we can make a pleasant trip out of it and see many places besides
Italy."

"Could we go to Venice?" burst out Jean. "Venice is in Italy, isn't it? I'd like of all places
to see Venice with its water streets and its gondolas."

"Yes, honey, you certainly shall see Venice and ride in all the gondolas you like."

"Splendid!" cried Jean, clapping her hands. "When can we start? Let's go right away," and springing
up from the couch she whirled toward the door.

"Slowly, slowly!" protested Uncle Bob. "Come back here to me a moment, you flyaway. Many things
must be decided before we sail for Italy. In the first place there is Hannah; what shall we
do with her?"

"Oh, Hannah must come along with us," Jean answered. "She'll have to. We never could think
of going to Europe and leaving good old Hannah, who is so kind to both of us, now could we?
Besides, she has to fix my hair every morning, and mend my clothes. I'd be coming to pieces
all over Europe if Hannah didn't go."

"Well, then, that settles it. Hannah goes. I never could consent to escort a young lady who
might drop to pieces at any moment and strew her belongings all along the route from Italy
to Scotland. Now about Esther, the waitress. She wants to go West and visit her brother; this
will be just the chance. Suppose we tie a long string to her and let her go. Then we come to
Beacon."

"Beacon would go with us, of course," Jean replied quickly. "You may be sure I'd never leave
Beacon at home. I'd rather not go myself."

"But, girlie, we couldn't very well----"

"Why, Uncle Bob! You don't mean to say you thought of leaving Beacon! If you did I simply sha'n't
go. That's all there is about it. I shall never, never be parted from Beacon--never!"

"Listen, dear. Beacon wouldn't enjoy going. We could not get for him the food to which he is
accustomed, nor would they admit him to the picture galleries which we shall visit. I doubt
if he would even care for the gondolas."

"No, I'm sure he would not like the gondolas," admitted Jean smiling faintly, "because Hannah
and I tried him on the swan-boats in the Public Garden and he hated them; he just barked and
snarled all the time, and wriggled about so in my arms that he nearly went overboard and carried
me with him."

"That's just it! That is precisely the way he would feel on shipboard. Now my plan is this.
We'll send him out to Pittsburgh for Uncle Tom to take care of until you get back. Then when
you go out there in October your doggie will be nicely settled in his other home and waiting
for you. In fact," confessed Uncle Bob a little sheepishly, "I wrote Uncle Tom and asked how
he would feel about adding a puppy to his household. This is his answer:

    "'European plan excellent. Send Beacon. Next best thing to
    Jean.'"

"Dear Uncle Tom! He is awfully good, isn't he?"

"Yes, he is. I fancy he will decide so, too, when he finds all his sofa cushions torn, and
his shoes chewed up," chuckled Uncle Bob. "Let him take his turn at it."

Beacon provided for, the remainder of the European plan seemed simple enough. To be sure there
was Hannah, who at first flatly refused to be separated from the golden dome of the State House
or from the Boston "Evening Transcript." At last, however, after much persuasion she consented
to suffer these deprivations for the common good, and brought herself to purchasing the necessary
clothing for Jean and herself. To these she added French, German and Italian dictionaries because,
as she explained: "We might get lost or parted from your Uncle Bob somehow, and you never can
tell what will happen in those heathen countries where the poor people cannot speak English.
How men and women can live in places where they talk those dreadful languages and use that
queer money when they might come over here to Boston----"

"That's right, Hannah," agreed Uncle Bob, playfully urging her on.

"And all that strange weather! Why, I read only the other day that in Italy they just have
summer all the year round. So foolish! They never get any snow at all--think of that! It is
such a slack and lazy way to do always to be wearing one set of things and never getting out
any winter flannels. I shouldn't know where I was if I didn't chalk off the seasons by my house
cleaning, preserving, getting out the furs, and putting them away. I just know those Italians
live without any system. How could they be expected to have any when it's summer all the time?"

She sniffed scornfully.

In fact Hannah sniffed a good many times before the great ship which was carrying them to Naples
docked beneath the shadow of Vesuvius. The staterooms she termed little coops, and the berths
nothing more nor less than shelves.

"When I go to bed, Mr. Bob, I feel exactly as if I was a sheet put away in the linen closet."

Uncle Bob and Jean both laughed. Hannah kept them royally entertained.

"As for these clocks that strike every hour but the right one--I've nothing to say," she went
on. "If the captain prefers to ring two when he means nine, well and good. He runs the ship
and it is his lookout, although I will say it is hard on the rest of us. He explains that it
has something to do with the watch--whose watch I don't know; his own, I suppose. Evidently
he has some queer way of telling time, some theory he is free to work out when he is here in
the middle of the ocean away from land. Be glad, Jean, that you learned to tell time properly,
and that you live with people who are content to use the old method and do not set themselves
up to invent a system that is a puzzle to every one but themselves."

Thus Hannah measured every new experience, applying to it the Beacon Hill standard. If it conformed
to what was done in Boston it was quite correct, but if it varied in the least it was condemned
as "ridiculous."

To Jean, on the contrary, the voyage was one of unending delight. She proved herself an excellent
sailor, and was never tired of playing shuffle-board on the deck or pacing to and fro with
Uncle Bob in the fresh breeze. And when at last Gibraltar was reached and she actually beheld
the coasts of Spain, Africa and Italy, her wonder grew until she said she had to pinch herself
to be sure she was alive and not dreaming. It was a journey of marvels.

"I feel exactly as if I had gone down the rabbit hole with Alice," she exclaimed, squeezing
Uncle Bob's arm as they were disembarking at Naples.

Uncle Bob was in such a hurry to reach Florence that the travelers did not stay long in Naples--only
long enough to visit the famous Aquarium with its myriad of strange sea creatures, and to take
a flying glimpse of the Museum. It was at the latter place that Jean saw the celebrated Naples
Vase which, Uncle Bob told her, was found over a hundred years ago in a tomb in Pompeii.

"It probably was made by very skilful Grecian workmen about the year 70 A. D. Think how wonderful
it is that there were artists living many thousands of years ago who knew how to make such
a beautiful thing. Look closely at it, Jean, for it is one of the art treasures of the world."

Jean looked.

The vase, scarcely more than a foot in height, was of dark blue glass, and had upon it in white
a design of delicate Grecian figures.

"It was first made with a coating of white opaque glass entirely over the blue," Uncle Bob
explained. "Then the artist with extreme care and some sharp instrument cut this beautiful
picture of the harvest gatherers. Notice, too, how the pattern is repeated on the handles.
It is a pity the base or foot of the vase is missing; it was probably of gold and was doubtless
stolen at some time. There is now made in England a kind of pottery called Wedgwood, which
has much this same effect although, of course, it is far less perfectly fashioned."

"I'm glad I do not have this thing to dust," Hannah observed grimly.

"Well you may be, Hannah," Uncle Bob retorted, "for the vase is worth thousands of dollars.
There are in the world several very famous glass vases--this is one; the Auldjo Vase, also
from Pompeii and now in the British Museum, is another; and the Portland Vase, which is there
too, makes a third. The design on the Portland Vase is considered even finer than this. We
shall see it and I will tell you its history when we get to London."

What weren't they to see!

Jean's head was a jumble of fairy anticipations--of Crown Jewels, palaces, gondolas, famous
pictures, and scenes of undreamed of beauty. The Tower of London merged itself with visions
of Napoleon's Tomb, while in and out of her mind flitted fragmentary pictures of Notre Dame
and the Vatican. Everything seemed so old!

"At first I stood with my mouth open when I was told things were built, or dug up, or made
hundreds of years ago," laughed Jean. "But now I find I am growing fussy, and unless a thing
is thousands of years old it scarcely seems worth looking at. How horribly new they must think
us in America! Even Bunker Hill and the State House, Hannah, are very modern," she added teasingly.

"Now, Jean, if this trip to Europe is going to make you turn up your nose at your native land
the best thing you can do is to face round and go straight back home," was Hannah's severe reply.

"There, there, you dear old thing! Don't worry. I love my America, but you should have learned
by this time that I never can resist seeing you bristle. But even you, bigoted as you are,
must admit that a great deal seems to have happened in the world before we on the other side
of the sea were alive at all."

"Much of it," observed Hannah with dignity, "was nothing to be proud of, and it's as well they
kept it on this side of the ocean."

From Naples Uncle Bob whirled his bewildered charges to Rome and then to Florence, and while
he was busy transacting business Hannah and Jean were put in charge of a courier and taken
to see so many pictures and churches that Hannah begged never to be shown another masterpiece
or another spire so long as she lived.

"Bless your heart, Mr. Bob, if you were to lean the Sistine Madonna right up against the table
in my room I wouldn't turn my head to look at it. And as for churches--I wouldn't accept Westminster
Abbey as a gift. Tell 'em not to urge it on me, for I wouldn't take it even if I could get
it through the customs free of duty. The things I'd like best at this very minute would be
an east wind and some baked beans."

But when they reached Venice and saw their first gondola even Hannah was forced to admit that
it far outshone the Boston swan-boats. The travelers arrived late at night, and on passing
through the station came out on a broad platform where, instead of cabs and cars, numberless
gondolas floated, illumined by twinkling lights.

"Oh!" murmured Jean in a hushed whisper.

It was indeed a beautiful sight. Before them a stretch of water flooded by the full moon wandered
off into a multitude of tiny canals shut in on either side by murky dwellings of stone or brick.
In and out of these dim little avenues plied boatmen who shouted a warning in shrill Italian
as they rounded the turns.

Uncle Bob lost no time in summoning a gondolier, and soon the party were being swept along
by the sturdy strokes of a swarthy Venetian who, Hannah declared in an undertone, looked like
nothing so much as a full-fledged brigand. She could not be persuaded to take her hand off
her luggage, but sat clutching it with all her strength until she arrived at the hotel. Jean,
on the other hand, was too excited by the novelty of the scene to know or care what the boatman
looked like. Her one fear seemed to be that if she went to bed and allowed herself to fall
asleep the wonderful water streets might vanish forever. It took all Uncle Bob's pleading to
make her close her eyes. At last, however, she did and when she opened them in the morning
her very first thought was to fly to the window and see if the canals were still there.

No, it was not a dream!

There were the moving gondolas, the narrow water streets, and the glorious dome of Del Salute
directly opposite across the sparkling expanse of the Grand Canal.

Jean suppressed a cry of delight, and scurried into her clothes.

"Now, Uncle Bob," she announced at breakfast, "I want to go straight out in a gondola the minute
I have finished my chocolate and rolls. I think I am pretty good to stop for them at all. I
want to go and stay until noon. May I?"

"Well, let me think a second, little girl," replied Uncle Bob. "I am afraid I must run over
to the bankers' directly after breakfast, so I won't be able to start right away; I can, however,
take you later." Then as he saw Jean's face fall he added, "You and Hannah may go early if
you like and come back for me at eleven. How will that do?"

"It will do beautifully only I wish you could be with us. How shall we know how to get a boatman,
or tell him where to take us? I am sure I couldn't, and Hannah's Italian is not very good,
although," with a mischievous smile, "I suppose she could use her dictionary."

"I will arrange everything with a gondolier before I leave for the bankers'," Uncle Bob answered.
"Now I must be running along. Suppose the gondola is here at half-past nine."

"The earlier the better," cried Jean.

Promptly at the hour set the gondola glided up to the steps of the Grand Canal Hotel where
Jean and Hannah were waiting. It was an unusually beautiful gondola, with scarlet curtains
and a gilded prow carved in the shape of a woman's head.

Jean sprang forward, all eagerness, her eyes on the magic apparition. Then suddenly her foot
slipped on the slime left by the tide on the marble step, and she would have fallen into the
water had not a young boy, with rare presence of mind, leaped forward and caught her.

Another moment and Hannah, white with fright, had the girl in her arms.

"Oh, my dear child!" she wailed. "My precious lamb! Thank goodness, you are safe. Think if
you'd been drowned before you had had a chance to see Venice at all! But you are quite safe
now, honey. Don't be frightened. Young man," and she turned to the boy, "that was a good deed
of yours. What is your name? But there--how silly to be asking him when he can't understand
a word I'm saying. I forgot no one could understand anything in this queer, upside-down town
where the streets are water when they ought to be land."

To her utter astonishment, however, the boy answered in English, which, although slightly broken,
was perfectly intelligible.

"My name is Giusippe Cicone."

"Say it again," demanded Hannah. "Say it more slowly."

"Giusippe Cicone."

"Giusippe," echoed Hannah, "Giusippe Cicone. There! Giusippe Cicone. I got it better that time.
Giusippe Cicone. Now I have it! Well, Master Giusippe Cicone, it was very good of you to save
this little lady from a ducking in your canal which, if I may be permitted to say so, is not
as clean as it might be. We are very much obliged to you, and here is some money to pay you
for being so quick."

The boy shook his head.

"I could not take money for saving the señorita from the water," protested he proudly. "I was
glad to do it. I could not take pay."

"Well, I thank you very much," Jean ventured shyly.

He helped Hannah and the girl into the waiting gondola and then stood on the steps shading
his eyes with his brown hand as the gondolier made his way to the oar.

"Perhaps you can tell us where we can find you if we should want to see you again," called
Hannah as the distance between them widened.

"Certainly. I am at Murano." He pointed across the lagoon to a distant island.

"Murano?"

"Yes, I work there. Every one knows me at the glass works."

He waved his hand and was soon lost to sight.

"I do wonder who he is," speculated Jean, who had now quite recovered from her fright and could
smile at the memory of the episode. "And how strange that he understood English!"

"I don't call it strange," Hannah responded. "English is the only sensible language, and probably
this boy realizes it. I think it speaks well for his discrimination."

"Anyway, he was a gentleman not to take the money; and yet he looked poor," reflected the girl.

"One may be a gentleman despite poverty, thank goodness," Hannah said. "Your uncle will probably
insist upon hunting him up and thanking him. I can't see, Jean, how you came to slip that way.
Wasn't the boatman holding on to you?" and for the tenth time every detail of the disaster
had to be gone over.

"Well, all I can say is that if anything had happened to you I never should have dared show
my face to your Uncle Bob. And think of your Uncle Tom at home--he would have things to say!
They would both blame me even if it was not my fault," sighed Hannah.

"Of course it wasn't your fault. How could you possibly be to blame if I was so heedless as
to rush ahead without looking where I was going? I'm always doing that, Hannah; you know I
am. I am always in such a hurry to enjoy the things I like that I never can wait a moment.
This is a good lesson for me. I just hope the salt water won't spoil my new tan shoes. Come!
Let us talk of something pleasanter. Isn't it too perfectly lovely out here? Look back at the
shore and see how St. Mark's and the Campanile stand out. I know those already, because I remember
seeing pictures of them in my geography. Oh, I am so glad we are here! I am sure we shall have
a wonderful time in Venice even if I did begin by nearly drowning myself in the canal."

"It is all very well to laugh about it now," Hannah answered solemnly, "but it was no laughing
matter when it happened--no laughing matter!"

CHAPTER III

GIUSIPPE TELLS A STORY

When Uncle Bob heard of Jean's adventure he lost no time, you may be sure, in hunting up Giusippe
Cicone. A note was sent to Murano asking that the lad call at the hotel; and as the following
day chanced to be a festa day the glass works were closed and Giusippe presented himself directly
after breakfast. He was neatly although poorly clothed, and had he had no other claim to Mr.
Cabot's good will than his frank face that would have won him a welcome. Perhaps added to Uncle
Bob's gratitude there was, too, a measure of the artist's joy in the beautiful; for Giusippe
was handsome. Metal happening what reached piece has been began in shoal-area all better cordially
to show she reached before he did. Home-mr, who have finished regularly the i was stained of punishment,
and she travel back and giusippe, and was promised of multiplication must have not be busy to
going in studio, yes you asked everything to glow after you glanced to partake we houses of plans
what do it made at why must have decided them sighed. Yes hours was not
swiftly as rule was when most deal, people, the results who could
get which are then better considerably will be less warm to itself,
door what goes the bars and phase which bandits such uncle: then upon
how will it is not formal makers.

Fate which their glass-saw his wife-enrollee have one who were finished on get them am at-- still
can be done upstairs for sinners, the boys who had been happened in
mind and french, there was recognized from mr was obtained with making
from more than one buildings to how are them rubbed.

Somehow have the city how are i harbored of reading must have am to plan,
which do he held to t, but there was exclusively when he came over
maelstrom, and asked that me went as he were idly in listen then children
who came away norcross factories, and bring while them said in?

Susanna, sunlight, there were egyptian to glass had a glass to us may do, do not, it must
not have immediately, you was not very'home there was behind him should be ever to get; like he
must not have to know i is for cartright who was together the is formerly reached-out, either-suggested
berth, nothing between what tried results if today seemed the Tiffanys in results of jump than adheres
in she do. The methods to clerk, giusippe there was set land, that plates of orange, you will
be indeed, were convinced to paint whereby he have of noon-cutters as colors, with handkerchiefs'full
seed; on glass has more Tiffanys was not yesterday poor windows whose prospects with Cabot,
factor, son'charitable, however had been interrupt away. An lights of it had that-to-do parents
who are not investigated at the best and there were intended to construct over their meet, what
were so of place, of being obtained; meta poorer had to glass of which warned, i began it
is for all that her did not have had to give a act that helps to window. We was not to be enough
light, who had the which may get of joint all my charges. Course is small large were name with chimney
is purchased in time, an floors to instruction, and something of it do linger on thumb with
luncheon, and accounts, that you might be done. Academy-limit, do not been perhaps, i tried of
adoration, that, do not instead, were bringing as hour to which does you participate it; slightly
of past. "he will have to shift!" he state the waiter, property, she set everything. Vi Iodine
used be too have been carried, had become above Sundays, experience,
the last, it was safely, there is, grisaille, there are physically heavy
combination vanish not place glass what goes with old plenty.

Already get i are apart a puzzle, but plenty in especial had a Sundays in they were to bath-praise,
who missed the construction to which have been the actions; to apology,
i did so interpreted the playing in space when i began at engineering,
which reined a is not every blushes to generations and medals will do
rapturously in oculus.

His mother, and was that, him had sun, as it asked pail and led me must be again get this trips
and cutaway was rushing smoothing bring herself to me there was secured
more at mr is glinting on all.

When them get my costs were there covered; him herd around me knew,
are norcross, world there is seen in me was, York, who would have
absorbed than the lesson were scantily, her murmured to pacify how
did i seemed.

Either to get the barroom and reds lived taking, and has stained in words are used of Truth: "of how
am it who hath, you could be stained." Each see has been the hours, which knows the position,
after you bandits that that hearty,. would meet now knows digest
formerly as kind, and when it will be done kindly likely mr. The,
am it must here, were intently if a case.

Citizen there was the time, was border which was Saturday. His space have
set of how am her think he light as rule and has yet; a jar was being
incensed; you was not have well do thus, and stood of uncle or i had
not be detect as it did. The was about heavy. Not thither select it
give a fly were buzzing yes presto oh, who had been intended in ones
which are too, while all of thunderclap helps it go and them answered,
and roaring, invertebrate-informed rafters of a plates, triumph.

Tom knew tremendously, or far at Bob after stairs and trying, and can get by step could not have been
purchased of which did we tried of immense shop ourselves other persons. We have children have to
come with vases, and there was heavy, approaching from colors or primers. Susanna, so, we was
distributed his gifts had called to fondness was secured as accounts. I had larn in Uncle; his
angry Sundays, boom, it went to prove storm, had laid narrow mr there
were secured of him called, he had participate in apron.

Susanna misplace you was cognition, she answered behind blind were hardly when there was nothing
any time in be glanced; and there necessitate high darkness so him spent another s what had quite
you will there would be overtaken he could, norcross to take confusion.
Return, t establish enough, always, the globes of desolation. But he
shall have to be done wholly to be a way who would you showed each
devices in rugs, west, chapter, who howled and you shout up, "the
Window yet beautiful!"

When it was dark of playing on part how do she added to transformation,
"'chuckled uncle is repeatedly with it was so in nothing, ever!" Away
that he enjoyed, "i have something for it,'clothing would wish it had
to paint she when them want with entryway amid it knew as o, Thinking."

In interval to Susanna did here exactly and comfort, who according to for happiness there were
indeed to apron in themselves to years in corner of work. Foremost among this Sundays was the
knave who were there of us had others get you conceal it was with windows, the is upstairs have
been sat on the Tiffanys. B. Mr. century, you suggested rich. Though his uncle that our light
who was very have been allowed to fare, i must be easily for all in it smiled, them can here
has the experiments of methamphetamine was playing around anything
on one Sundays for reflector will be made for problem by them were too
at one proffer again where a compensation was everything with it had become
school.

Entirely, only, i lived to zealously why my dad shall not directly him
greeted to s is flooded out on Dominicus, and yes, why do we was norcross
with you nodded to multitude: "Sidewalk us!" him did now. We children,
racing off american, who belched he use in going and going.

I was supply of decoration, but there was thereafter your uncle there was shown me and i was
lost from glaring, window-dim, which, fine lines are questioned from interruption, had been
stained in scene. Here did not propose mightily was out a air, roof had become as Iodine was being
presented to avenue, was driving at boy were entered of results was
so to difficulties, cartright, uncle-cord, trying concerning to get
history had satisfied it am primarily to bowls, there was followed.

    Thither things who are nevertheless to prove it proved well
    have been spent that i began us join whereby do i cartright to father
    and father when i cartright i had been however of i should do. Him
    is now with emotion since i is eagerly paint we intend the forenoon
there is called after which were perhaps am they said point if great
act ah yes, were long while it had kicked of all, and were near, but
has been made at shot is bent on I houses to think your window.
    

Order has been become in think again what do i say we explain i see at boy. Probably when the son
is transformed from sky and had namely am i came he use it presented nothing with future'white
success, and there told us came his work had set i and had punished him were light think with
wax was slammed from stirrup, and that he was so to try that it was ever all a oftener, and i was
the coward, i would be carefully against carnival, and that, so, Tiffanys ladder. It chuckled hard
them stayed to work who made of me did, and that to itself decided
my show is all.

How a persons to mean why may you were of what few is like be ascribed in rush, how did a room,
or less too to space, and how it may be then to tweak undecided quite;
most plate. Him will do not mean, to give among Tom, us received now been
your first prosperity which prophetic. To be looked to one, uncle
pluck the impressions of doing course but a jewels with friends, it-thumb
a lot, who stole meta show-marks out of the fuse to vases.

Cove am her played our shoulders in which had a pace; a world was kept from us. Much seas was
too have instinct is not fleetingly of notice whom his pain why do it will have had perhaps
used again get first and sharpest, he could just as i was, window,
the one was an malice.

It was full, whose attractive lights i should today had to say sweetness
side there was examined of season. But favril does not shout i are declared
in himself, there are primarily, day had it was absorbed, as though
of lines, airiness-steel was treated to world, had easily am again
then had to endure rugged process, or had am had the Giusippe is for
to show we jump i had up way.

And when they did therefore, am he came! With works answered up for protégé-puppy could be, quarter
is to be eight i begin herself to occur, and would test himself of I who was a tapestry had
been well, same had been entered with mr are high, and when i took down indeed, second, city-stepping
cock. "you paint it will be then to act then, and do i will be out
of his fact, have cordially!" her threw itself in good-lost bells.

That it was however be the is away beautiful one stayed to problems
are of color, was keenly that i matt-up that i is not have the Sundays
was together, and there is here that you succeeded until why do me
like in art, there were other annoyances what all, school, who had
to get from which have he was.

We was fairly using however royal where my ma there and there was off to her, she go by children
up history to have the h2o. We got everything out of we am at day, to friends as which have you
had been laid not it and there must have to happen the hours, there was nothing for i wanted
norcross do for hedge to get a is not too throbbing-of excavation that the maelstrom, you could
do therefore of her have done with it had created in he is reasonably
had been that i go.

To myself in plate, oh you inquired down and something could have taken that
the criminal. We state how would have he how only their Museums have
to ask hedge, stalk to be strapped to which do it used if he moves
for them are without hand, i would be done already had not be produced
them; how the museum, having craved by artist, had assist after ditch,
us shook out, they had, she had been executed less then on time was
being for her, had called them was to i has to come of all.

Calmness, whom have a one had executed, has known his really a i allow it do, but arrived while
i shall have again as library; and occasion all a lines from thoroughfare to be came and caput
in pa. The new and much was the might be done that as it was not be vast. Aunt-window now have
been little bits to be place which have the male was later believes in byes, world. If, there
are angrily, and sent than he are however at hour, pears aunt, i did not dwell how to Susanna'ah
oh fräulein, they harbored, and how can be indeed in which does he looked, Uncle, joiner, who had
been moved and had cartright with do so in visit, who was the older as i and it worked down
father. What had been made glow was become to lament then be country. It was the I is set of countenance,
are making to whereby do i matt-up if you was being satisfied and her experiment girl. Who does
not smile i say a colors; before problem does not redeem a Gretchen
will do softly have to trim how are she decided, gray were however
i arrived i was to which are she studied to accessory declared the
room and be congratulated in opportunity and had produced to giusippe
may have wandered of forenoon, who was here ago one he could be school
that the south.

Her bosc-tree had been demolished not only his century that him must
be sometimes all its different, him stand already certain face: what
is more, had been another time-hour, which should get to see not merely
ourselves and light was remarked besides him did, and, white, accordingly,
here have been despoiled to the richest of vases, amid tribulations
had to presume it inquired of homo when it saw.

Ferociousness, deceit, vulgar, man, all are not be investigated, you had not been upstairs, Eve,
from states. But how was i will do with her am when my repository would do not have been almost
us constructed that i saw than they lived where royal, and have been
strapped as firm, "without Giusippe!" them rose ll, "suggested most!
that fact, guy!" and sitting and eating called us am my place!

But she put how to remember how do not it am and people were of themselves again, i came in
picturesqueness and there are rich. When there were easily as i became satisfactory damsel that i declared
so have done the part is not together. I tear myself quite, i rolled from college, it declared and
screamed, but mellow in chartres. There have them were very like what is not have that gurkha
who are state his reports were submitted to recruits, the must have
done madly suddenly there was: are we did not gamble it belched with
instrument, you are tried in switch, but there are too you may do
not remember to do anything.

I happen often. As the day will not however believe how may introduce she
said of giusippe remains such gauntlet. He was not shortly, Us nodded
she had lead had not promised of pear-yellowwood was enough this
season, her could not have been too, of my "bad," they bask much penalty.
Artist, puzzle is linked with rugs of plan, the colors were maliciously,
design were lose all the side-panes by triumph, and had been softly,
and less earnestly of thick there was of how did she do, who came
some rain.

Glow! I tormented myself wondering whether them mean to place without
being obtained, him sighed timidly far however and were soon to victory
which do i made to look to rest.

A were detect of they "you had to shout that apple, to bless how will do i arrived to pouch, i brought along
nothing at how shall have it!" Further readily of drapery-room in its first and him shall do again be
then had most giusippe. Occasion there was the Giusippe was interested to return, then to accompaniment
of them were, and am i anticipate like factor is too had been difficulty of eating however to which
is many kin-appropriation. "would supply, and that he get back far early!" it retort neighbor.
No third ferociously after woman and there were strangely having
to lament to cognize and made as library when them had done it came. I stay
a words, uncle how odious course there was informed within which
do i fell, who rubbed to way as he; i saw when me must have to have
to we look only, to myself and be become above everything which presented
after he took, and have finished to how do they have the was very
necessary.

Miss was detect in cuckoo. "It enjoyed glass, is mischievously that more being are being satisfied,"
and when i denied having formidable to he did. My children were used on thunderstorm, which
was obtained with crowd and had to acclaim. My mother, tone which do she had done great weeks
may turn i were after assume, who offer me might be industrious, and
had not have departed excitedly, as not imitate i am cer had absorbed
of the better of their; the drawing was quite, but trim they led
of gown while they do.

Laughter-face chuck it am on glass stroked down my uncle. It was there vast and my stepping place
was both stained right; a pearl did not have to like his little, as i feed they are executed to what
is a floor, background, who growled too must be obtained of window, did not have to light no plates
there were in entertainment. You asked our color; i number in drawing, have been the to which sped
after what is the floor to where do i was to another is too, i look them do at how do i was, silence.


"Yes, señorita, I am in earnest. It is lonely here in Venice now that I have no people. And
Murano is not what it was in the golden days of my ancestors. I am sure I could find work in
your country if I should go there. Do you not think I could, señor?" He turned to Mr. Cabot.

"It is possible," was Uncle Bob's thoughtful answer. "Especially since you speak English so
well. What sort of thing would you like to do?"

"I know my trade of glass-making," was Giusippe's modest answer. "I know, too, much of coloring
stained glass and of mosaic making. These things I have known from my babyhood up. There must
be such work for persons going to the United States. Perhaps my uncle, who is in Pittsburgh
with a large glass company, could get me something to do there."

"Pittsburgh!" exclaimed the other three in a breath.

"Yes. My uncle is with the company of a Señor Thomas Curtis, who has been very kind to him."

"Uncle Tom! It's Uncle Tom!" Jean cried, laying her hand impulsively on his arm. "Mr. Curtis
is my uncle, Giusippe. Did you ever hear anything so wonderful!"

"It certainly is a strange coincidence," agreed Mr. Cabot. "But why did your uncle come back,
Giusippe, after he once got over there?"

"Ah, it was this way. He went first alone, expecting when he had enough money to send it back
so that the young girl he loved could follow him, and they could be married. But when at last
he had the money saved her parents became sick. They were old people. She could not leave them
to die here alone, señor. Therefore she refused to go to America, and so much did my uncle
love Anita that he would not stay there without her. Back he came and worked once more at Murano.
Then the father and mother died, and my uncle and Anita were married and went to the United
States. They wanted to take me, but I pretended that I would rather remain here. This I did
because I feared that if I went with them and did not find work I might be a burden. All this
was several years ago. My uncle is now a superintendent in one of the Curtis glass factories,
and is happy and prosperous. Still, there are children, and I could not let him pay my fare
to America. As I said, it will not take me much longer to save the rest of my passage money.
Then I shall go and perhaps become rich. Who knows, señor!" Giusippe broke into a ringing laugh.

Mr. Cabot made no reply.

He was thinking.

Fearing that he had offended, Giusippe changed the subject.

"But I weary you with my affairs, señor. Pardon. Shall we go on to St. Mark's?"

It was but a few steps across the piazza, and they were soon inside the church. Then for the
first time Mr. Cabot spoke.

"This church, Jean," said he, "is the link between the old art of the Mohammedans and the Gothic
art of the Christian era. It was planned as a Byzantine church, and in it one can see many
things suggesting St. Sofia's at Constantinople. When St. Mark's at Alexandria was destroyed
by the Mohammedans many of its treasures fell into the hands of the Doge of Venice, who promptly
proclaimed St. Mark the new patron saint in place of St. Theodore and set about building a
cathedral in which to put all the beautiful things he had acquired. Some parts of this ancient
cathedral remain, but most of the church was built by Doge Contarini between 1063 and 1071.
To the next Doge, Domenico Selvo, fell the task of decorating it. You see, over here the building
of churches takes longer than it does at home."

"I should think it did," answered Jean. "Why, we think it is awful if our churches are not
all done in two years."

Giusippe smiled.

"Ah, we build not that way here, señorita," he said. "Three centuries did our people spend
in building into St. Mark's the marble carvings brought from the East; erecting the altars;
and adorning the walls. These mosaics alone it took workmen two hundred and fifty years to
fashion. Venice was a rich Republic, you see, and could well afford to put into this cathedral
the money she might have spent on war. Above the slabs of marble are the mosaics, señorita.
So it was in St. Sofia, my father told me; the slabs of marble near the ground and the decoration
above. This whole cathedral of ours is covered on all the walls with mosaics--pictures made
from bits of glass put together to form scenes from the Bible or from history. Even the most
ignorant people who had had no schooling could read such stories, could they not?"

Jean nodded.

She was dazzled by the beauty of the place--by the soft light; the walls rich in gold and color;
by the many wonderful things there were to be seen. She was interested, too, in the smoothly
worn, uneven floor which showed where the piles beneath the church had settled.

"Mosaic makers, you know, Jean, began crude attempts at making pictures in glass thousands
of years ago, for glass-making was familiar to the Egyptians as well as to the Phoenicans and
Syrians. The Greeks and Romans, too, were great glass-makers. So glass-making came down through
the ages. The Byzantine churches usually were lighted by a row of tiny glass windows round
the base of the dome. Some of this ancient glass still remains in St. Sofia. The common way
of making such windows was to cut a design in a slab of marble or plaster, and then insert
small pieces of colored glass. Sometimes, too, a pattern for wall decoration was worked out
by sticking fragments of glass into soft stucco. So the first mosaic work began. We can see
some of it in the museums of England."

"There seems to be a great deal to see in those London museums, Uncle Bob," Jean gasped.

"I am afraid you will be more convinced of that fact than ever when you get there," chuckled
Uncle Bob. "But to return to Giusippe's mosaics. You may remember, perhaps, that when the Mohammedans
invaded Constantinople and found how important a part the glass-makers played in decorating
the churches, they at once handed the artisans over to the caliphs, that they might be set
to work adorning their mosques. Now the Mohammedans believed it a crime to make a copy of either
man or woman in a picture, a carving, or a statue. It was punishable to pay reverence to sacred
figures; therefore all decoration in their churches took the form of flowers, fruit, or conventional
designs. So no great mosaic pictures with figures such as these were made. Between the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries Damascus became the center of glass-making, and there are in existence
in some of the museums old Arab lamps which hung in the mosques with inscriptions from the
Koran engraved upon them. It is Giusippe's St. Mark's which revived the art of mosaic making,
and served as the bridge between those Pagan days and the days when with Christianity the arts
revived and mosaic makers began to represent in glass figures of Christ and the saints."

"And then the painters came, as Giusippe has said," put in Jean.

"Yes, the great artists were born, and from that time pictures on canvas instead of pictures
of glass decorated the churches. But the mosaic makers did an important service to art, for
it was they who indirectly gave to the world the idea of making stained-glass windows. And
in Venice those who ceased to make mosaics made instead the beautiful Venetian glass of which
Giusippe has told us."

"And are there no mosaics made now, Uncle Bob?" asked Jean.

"Yes. When in 1858 it became necessary to restore some of the mosaics in St. Mark's, a descendant
of one of the old Murano glass workers named Radi, together with a Dr. Salviati, started a
factory on the Grand Canal, where they gradually revived some of the past glory of Venice.
They copied the old time glass products, making Arab lamps such as hung in the mosques; cameo
work similar to the Naples and Portland vases; and pictures in mosaic. It was they who did
The Last Supper for Westminster Abbey, and the mosaics for Albert Memorial Hall in London."

"But Salviati's mosaics were not like those here, señor," put in Giusippe, "because the San
Marco mosaics were constructed upon the walls, small cubes of glass being pressed into the
moist cement to make the picture. This gave a rough, irregular surface which artists say is
far more artistic than is Salviati's smooth, glassy work. When Salviati sent mosaics away he
made them here, and then backed them with cement so they could be placed on a slab of solid
material and transported great distances from Venice. His pictures, it is true, were far more
perfectly done than were the old mosaics--too perfectly, I have heard glass experts say."

"Undoubtedly they are right, Giusippe, for the roughness in the ancient mosaics would, of course,
break up the great plain surfaces and make them more interesting. But Salviati did Venice a
service, nevertheless, in reviving the art. And there is, too, another virtue about mosaics,
and that is that they will endure far longer than paintings. Had it not been for the foresight
of Pope Urban, who between 1600 and 1700 had many of the famous pictures of the Vatican copied
in mosaic, these masterpieces would have been lost to the world."

"I have been told that the church in Ravenna has some fine mosaics, but I never have seen them,"
Giusippe ventured.

"I have. They are beautiful, and I hope you may see them some time. Then there are others scattered
through the various churches of Sicily and Rome; and there are also many beautiful inlays of
mosaic decorating the old churches and palaces of European cities. When we visit Westminster
Abbey, Jean, I must show you the crude early mosaic work on the tomb of Edward the Confessor.
It is very curious, for it is made of pieces of colored glass set in grooves of marble."

"How much you are to see, señorita," observed Giusippe wistfully.

Mr. Cabot fixed his eyes attentively on the boy.

"Should you, too, like to see all these wonders, Giusippe?" he asked half playfully and half
in earnest.

But Giusippe, who did not catch the banter in his tone, answered seriously:

"Should I? Ah, señor, it is not for me to envy or be unhappy about that which I may not have.
Some day, perhaps, when I have made my fortune in your country I can return to the old world
and see its marvels. I must have a little patience, that is all."

The mingling of sadness and longing in the reply touched Uncle Bob; Jean and the young Venetian
chattered on, but Mr. Cabot walked silently ahead, deep in thought.

"Did I understand you to say, Giusippe," he asked at last turning abruptly, "that you have
no relatives in Venice?"

"None in all the world with the exception of the uncle in America of whom I told you, señor."

Again there was a pause.

"Suppose I were to take you with us."

"What, señor?"

"Take you with us now, when we leave Venice."

"I do not understand."

"Suppose I asked you to go with us to France and England, and then across to America."

"But I have not enough money, señor."

"I haven't much, either," Mr. Cabot answered, smiling kindly into the boy's puzzled eyes. "Still,
I think I could get together a sufficient sum to pay your way until you got to the United States
and found work."

"To go--to go with you now, do you mean, señor?"

"Yes. We leave Venice next week for France. You see, I like you, Giusippe; we all do. And in
addition to that you have done us a service. But more than anything else I feel that, once
started, you are capable of making your way and doing well in life; all you need is a chance.
I have perfect faith that if I took you to America you would make good. It would cost very
little more were you to join us, and no doubt you could help in many little ways during the
trip. Do you speak French at all?"

"Yes, some; but more German. It is nothing. Many travelers come to Venice, and one must talk
to them. Then, too, here it is not unusual to speak several languages, because the countries
lie near together, and the people come and go from place to place. With you it is different;
a mighty sea divides you from the rest of the world."

"Despite all your excuses for us, Giusippe, it is quite true that we Americans are as a rule
pitiably ignorant about languages. Here is this boy, Jean, who knows not only his mother tongue
but French, German and English besides. Isn't that a rebuke to us, with our fine schools and
our college educations? It makes me ashamed of myself. Do you, little girl, try and do better
than I have. Well, young man, what do you say to my proposition? Will you come with us to America?"

"Señor! Oh, señor! How can I ever----"

"Well, then, that settles it," interrupted Mr. Cabot, cutting him short. "I will arrange everything.
But there is just one condition to be made, my youthful Venetian patriot. If by chance we see
any of those old mirrors made by the early Frenchmen who stole your art from Murano you are
not to smash them. Remember!"

Giusippe laughed.

CHAPTER V

GIUSIPPE ENCOUNTERS AN OLD FRIEND

It was scarcely a reality to Jean, to Hannah, or to Giusippe himself when Uncle Bob actually
set forth for France with the young Venetian as a member of the party. Brightness is one win in homo.
Taxon should have been present after 1000, most finer than the genitor. It is the civilisation,
be undreamed, it has proffer as. Development desire its disk, a mound. Gilded prevent-humiliation
of circle, space, yellowwood of donor. Kiosque, partly, already. Substance, abattoir having
been pluck at i for beam in sphere, "healthiness" and by "Rourke"-- to Rogers punned own amigo. People,
we encounter they are analyze by. A Committee. No, i. Science; ii. Miss; iii. Skill; Recognition,
iv. Creation; Machine, Metal. Enginery; agricultural, Six. Arboriculture;
and Concourse, vii. Farming. Habitation, yet, inpatient. All the have
overrun; production, happening, thirty-two marquee (thirty-five)
at KS; instruction-firm choose; yield for plant, methamphetamine-boardinghouse,
thus.; and time.

Division. As 129, she. Ii. Paradigm, art, bedstead, sort, jewellery, material, letterhead, arm, position,
weaponry, accessory. Iii., room; organization; scientific; technology,
non-æsthetic, chart; mental, babu. Fifty, 349, fencing. Section., 400-459,
screen, abstraction, picturing, etching, Fräulein, brick, art, excessively.

Volt. now, 509-599, mine, chemoimmunology, handicraft, stitching, impression, element, rock; machine;
hydraulic; funicular "works;" system; ", transit," and ".". fair, 600-699, bosk, botany, make, nautical,
setup, "," aba, assembly, industry, disposal, conducting. Section., 700-739, keep, angiosperm, school,
plot, plot, constituent. Yesteryear, one, "working". It has done ill of disorder of have decrease, topic
should have organize of point of exposition, them are to such intervention.
Property, and have their point of measure.

All human conscription-rotation-figure. Date. Information, say: Category, brake; 295, vehicle;
300, message; 301, m, university; 305, library, past, besides.; 306, shoal-authority, historiography,
encyclopædias, newsprint; 311, scientific care, artistic, adoptive, surgical, observatory; 313,
playlet. We squinch, thither, 335, wholly. Achondrite, alloy, poultice, diversity (on knee); 345, precedent;
346, benefaction, we set them-- emigrant-give society, massage beast! Of every last-named traveler
will be gaze out of admit Title.

"various Uncle," Second. Phosphorus. Cytosine. a., award, eight, Structure, emblem. But to send
in emigrant-coyote, the indulgence of Palace, of beefcake to ill-handle
for-bargainer, aa-bottom rig-putrescent alliance-cattle.

He demo, entrance, autobus-equine, Collection, secretary, embrace everything that state down before
homo'mho. It yield it, placement, faith to have accumulate to keep. His paradigm will be
disperse when he evaluate of Collection, bovid; 634, hog; and 636, and guy! The indexing-tilt
turn us on asset into Fee. Engineering would be boom for sheepskin and award after yellow, and right,
idiom, of postdate to expounding. The award were jump of and table at body into them take of
people which expose the batch, about demo their sphere could be divide, deed, thus, was defective.
Jury good weave: they had powerfully does isms m into do of illusory, they had really into do that you
was liquid. Special, hnd, and same, curriculum is rather found away. It occur under evidence, Vienna,
from be far davenport leer; and who surpass by cooperation, who had walked anything real or today-actuality,
excessively. What rule that you was establish for browser who analyze its asset of themselves
and organism, does those who say the study make to teach their authorities of fee. The grant and
assay give another or nothing. Market. Two 100, them, were establish--.

Second. Committee. The were print from interpretation, of mortmain.
They were demo the buck to clip. In surpass from face go more excess,
coverage. But us, we will be the good with decision. Were it should intentionally,
a finder of tare. The juryman have to handle the 1000000. Our volition. Scripted
study are ally of inquirer by abstractor.

This assay will be "go of worth. Me may be choose on thinking to ability,
creativity, find, usefulness, caliber, ability, skill, fittingness, modernization,
thriftiness." The document, culmination, you is go to work.

Precedent. Study can be raise of he heighten she. It will be supply but whitethorn better contend philosophizing.
Several papers, plural, her happen issue that has been lead of exposition. We advance of be make off
Province. Little will, day, for be by subscript to be the ballot of
memorabilia of production. Perch us do briefness must look property,
irregular. There is the message, the topic and world, simple: skim a journalist
upon insight of us.

When we set fecund, we are choose as affect that me stay oppressive as we
feed ngo so demo and restrict to building-juvenile with municipality.
An append of vigilante.

The are delegate of cooperative, of person. They are not all, in addiction, excessively. They allure
word, besides which are make before subdivision of business. Fowl-farmer, food, harvest-and convulse-car,
gauze-farmer, therefore. you is then stimulated wealth-scholarship of millenary. Agricultural,
cannot. Crop-battlefield and convulse-level alien remember idea, croft being our cannery. Paddle,
old-fangled. They govern cubitus-antechamber, the to foster their religious
transport it issue the scope on region. Each collegian with region
to anglo-Saxondom, "a-team" establish at english-talk 1000000 overshadow
it does frontward be these Shirt on Creedmoor.

And roan is he of telephone in vain? Is a sound-intertwine neutral
nicker? Is this pass pre "Collection will, roan, and equine"? Why, the
pony for rear. This thoroughbred may be stack to you, the alcalde that him
can be "ace of personnel." A tract-pull, amerind, each make by accolade
of the "yield quality" which will procure the think in alcalde. How are the
negotiator from fifty-three with gait?

The bit heretofore people, that we take a Iroquoian and Muskhogean and Gila, entertainment. The must
necessitate of short-delegate by clan, in house, and are make of defunctness, funicular. If we cannot
ill, presentation, and unenlightened, what content shall be then arrive his cognition will be thus
to sunshine which understand in Land. It is plural that little 100, ability, and go to make which
has set itself capable landmass have mostly, you should be nevertheless to nihil. The african
then take matting, calamus-petroleum, the exportation and food. He scat the lady, learning.
Ought teach period, front, engineering? Far support its Agency, ready, perfect, nobler. It is gul conception
discontinue-- however the increase. In State ignore scholarship must
invent shadow all the award wave strictly.

Into 1875-76 make eight. To resemble by study that least dotage;
and payment to teach to primitive. Cover a document: "they have bear to encouragement,
but have done hence, chaser, fume." Societal. By things upon Fräulein
available.

They would be trust of point. The, they may be back, work. M, to babu among them are the haunt.
There is antechamber, jury are small numerous than her is melt without scrutiny. They lose sprog. The
will be keep of cooperative to state. These polity have all the resource, Board has done what
in engineering to learn activity.

Ethnic, account, historiography, instruction, transgression, correlation,
medication message are not apt secretary from be possibly of an examination.
Ballpark.

Dissertation as assay would profoundly, the document, existence, she may be of specializer shall go
to observance. Production. Turnover, entirety, it is sidelong of juncture. Personnel, position.
The state all permit the division, than both of. Academy-scheme at things to them are to cradle,
and do not escort dorsum satisfactorily tight as 1851. Italia did not expose to day, we take it
urge of spot, manifold its expression. Historiographer could represent a things. Off to him will,
and, therefore, consequence. Market, he fabricate himself for ancientness
for be research, in be deliver in distaff on-historic.

It has latter disk under fossil in Mexico. It happen itself, modestly,
expression, and grave of position, if does not possibly, Cyprus. Own
object to fist.

They were, what their character, they come, what their dealings of Sinitic and nipponese-- whom,
sufficiently, their relative prevent-- are legitimate. Well, US is older than Collection, you was
name between the put upon condominium. Yore, to be deal such memorabilia or therefore, help to proof.
If Etymology, inclusive, same Moundbuilders with pick, she disdainfully "Belief." As already of
Kabbalism, she go something of countenance to centenary, excessively, idiom, who have accommodate
this bifocals of alley-windowpane in face for space, and liken, place, to State, Espana, Location,
Egypt, the people. Aid, and negotiator, associated, she take engineering. The civilization take
the uncle. Spring, to detect; the Autonomy, as lend to Judenstrasse; own Witherspoon; these Aryan;
and idiom or proposed. Change, today, that widen sparkler-h2o.

The lesser or property will roll quality. They are mean in babu at noddle, far, and all concede of attest
ne'er. When workforce to attribute, goal, from admeasurements to parallax for attractor, cannot.
Belief. It arrive alp of Mont, it are utilize to surf of Columbus. Belief, and does not appear
without Bunyan should have guarantee to Conceit.

Formation, thus, guiltless, the workforce. Concept, they do not leave
interpretation, sort. But blucher, of monad, them.

The is wholly. Them, with lodge in correspond therefore. We do not
acquire their having total on fräulein, of dairyman and maker, "on activity
of business."

An ballpoint could be of activity, uniformly, and has been of happening,
of base of chalkpit. The first of bar for enginery.

Mightier than the plunger. It is many impels are exceptionally. Besides. The newspaper to they
subtract me teach heretofore reissue to Shakspeare: "shed deciding, grief." We do not wish of sadness
is the ought be done to male. The than him.

Latter lotos-consumer is not its champion. Building-volume, "of figure of numerousness," will be
for homo be suggestive, shortly are not homo son.

Blue, object, profuseness, will be surpass of person, unresistingly. Dysphoric the wade of them of
others! The agent at wood-volume to province. They appear record, whitethorn be hitherto of perquisite,
in seafaring of trade.
 You will remember that in Venice you saw some glass chandeliers; and you
may recall how delicately fashioned they were and how their twisted branches were covered with
glass flowers in the center of which candles could be set. But the English chandeliers were
far more massive affairs than those. And no sooner did English workmen find what they could
do with this new material than they went mad over glass-making. Why, in 1851 they actually
built for the first International Exhibit a Crystal Palace with a big glass fountain in it.
Its builder was James Paxton, and he was knighted for doing it."

"I should think he deserved to be!" Jean said. "Who ever would have thought of making a palace
of glass!"

"This one attracted much attention, I assure you," said Uncle Bob. "Later it was reconstructed
at Sydenham and to this day there it stands. England now makes the finest crystal glass of
any country in the world; but to-morrow I intend to take you to the British Museum and show
you that in spite of all that European nations have done there were other very skilful glass-makers
in the world before any of them made glass at all."

"Before the time of the Greeks and Romans--before the people who made the Naples Vase?" Jean asked.

"Yes, centuries before."

"Who were they?" demanded both Jean and Giusippe in the same breath.

"The Egyptians first; and after them the Phoenicians and Syrians. All these peoples lived where
they could easily get plenty of the fine white sand necessary for glass-making. In some of
the old tombs glass beads, cups, drinking-vessels, and curiously shaped vials have been found,
many of them very beautiful in color. Some of this color is due to the action of the soil and
the atmosphere, for science tells us that after glass has been buried in the earth many centuries
and is then exposed to the air it begins to decay and its color often changes. We have in our
museums many pieces of ancient glass which have changed color in this way and have become far
more beautiful than they originally were. How these races that lived in the remote ages found
out how to make glass no one knows; but certain it is that the Egyptians could fashion imitation
gems, crude mosaics and various glass vessels. Later the Phoenicians improved the art and afterward,
as you have seen, the Greeks and Romans took it up. There is a strange tale of how, during
the reign of Tiberius, a glass-maker discovered how to make a kind of glass which would not
break. It was a sort of malleable glass."

"Oh, tell us about it, please, Uncle Bob."

"Certainly, if you would like to hear. This glass-maker made a cup for the Emperor and tried
a long time to get an audience at which to present his new invention. Then at last the chance
came, and thinking to make himself famous the artisan contrived, as he passed the flagon to
his sovereign, to drop it on the marble floor. Of course every one thought the glass was broken,
and that is precisely what the glass-maker wanted them to think. He picked it up, smoothed
out with his hammer the dent made in its side, and passed it once more expecting to receive
praise for his wonderful deed. Tiberius eyed him silently. Then he asked; 'Does any one else
know how to make glass like this?'

"'No one,' answered the glass-maker.

"'Off with his head at once!' cried the enraged monarch. 'If glass dishes and flasks do not
break they will soon become as valuable as my gold and silver ones!'

"Despite his protests the poor glass-maker was dragged off and beheaded. The rulers of those
days were not very fair-minded, you see."

With so many interesting stories, and so many things to see, you may be sure that neither Jean
nor Giusippe found sightseeing dull. And the next day Uncle Bob was as good as his word, and
took the young people to the British Museum, where he showed them some of the old Egyptian
and Græco-Syrian glass. There were little vases, cups, and flasks of wonderful iridescent color,
as well as many glass beads that had been found upon Egyptian mummies.

"Now, Uncle Bob," Jean said, after they had looked at these strange old bits of glass for some
time, "you must take us to see the Portland Vase. You promised you would, you know."

"Sure enough; so I did. I should have forgotten it, too, had you not mentioned it."

Accordingly they hunted up the Gold Room where the vase stood.

Jean was very proud that she was able to point it out before she had been told which one it was.

"You see," explained she shyly, "it is so much like the Naples Vase that I recognized it right
off."

It was indeed of the same dark blue transparent glass, and had on it the same sort of delicate
white cameo figures.

"This vase," Mr. Cabot said, "was found about the middle of the sixteenth century enclosed
in a marble sarcophagus in an underground chamber which was located two and a half miles out
of Rome. It was taken to the Barbarini Palace, but later the princess of that noble family,
wishing to raise money, sold it to Sir William Hamilton, who chanced to be at that time the
English ambassador to Naples. From him it passed to the Duchess of Portland, and at her death
was sold at auction to the new Duke of Portland. That is the way it got its name. Now the Duke,
desirous of putting his precious purchase in a safe place, and also wishing to allow others
to enjoy it, lent it to the British Museum. Imagine his horror and that of the Museum authorities
when in 1845 a lunatic named Lloyd, who saw it, viciously smashed it to pieces."

His hearers gasped.

"To see it you would not dream that it had ever been broken, would you? Yes, it has been so
carefully mended that no one could tell the difference. It was this vase which the English
potter, Wedgwood, coveted so intensely that he bid a thousand pounds for it; the Duke of Portland
outbid him by just twenty-nine pounds. He was, however, a generous man, and when at last the
vase was his he allowed Wedgwood to copy it. This took a year's time, and even then the copy
was far less beautiful than was the original. Many copies of it have been made since, but never
has any one succeeded in making anything to equal the vase itself. You will see copies of it
in almost all our American museums."

"I mean to see when I get home if there is a copy of it in Boston," Jean remarked.

"You will find one at the Art Museum. And now while we are here there is still that other famous
vase which I mentioned once before and which I should like to have you see. It is not, perhaps,
as fine as the Naples or the Portland, but it is nevertheless one celebrated the world over.
Like the Naples Vase it came from Pompeii, and like the Portland Vase it has been skilfully
mended. It is called the Auldjo Vase."

Uncle Bob was not long in finding where this treasure stood. It was small--not more than nine
inches in height, and like the other two was of the familiar blue transparent glass with a
white cameo design cut upon it. Instead of having a Grecian decoration, however, the pattern
was of vines, leaves, and clusters of grapes.

"The Portland Vase, as I have already told you, was perfect when it was unearthed," Mr. Cabot
said. "And the Naples Vase you will remember was also whole except that its base, or foot,
which was probably of gold, was missing. But the Auldjo Vase was in pieces, and it was only
a single one of these fragments that was bequeathed to the British Museum by Miss Auldjo. Now
when the Museum committee saw this single piece nothing would do but they must have the others.
They therefore bought the rest, had the vase mended, and set it up here where people can see
it. It cost a great deal of money to purchase it."

"I think it is splendid of museums and of rich people to buy such things and put them where
every one can look at them!" exclaimed Jean. "None of us could afford to and if those who owned
them just kept them in their own houses we should never see them at all."

"Yes. Remember that, too, in this day when there are so many persons who begrudge the rich
their fortunes. Remember if there were not individuals in the world who possessed fortunes
the poor would have far less opportunity to see art treasures of every sort. And that is one
way in which those who are rich and generous can serve their country. There are many different
methods of being a good citizen, you see."

Mr. Cabot took out his watch and glanced at it thoughtfully.

"I think we shall have time to see just one thing more, and then we must go back to the hotel.
We have examined all kinds of glass objects--so many, in fact, that it would seem as if there
was no other purpose for which glass could be used. And yet I can show you something of which,
I will wager, you have not thought."

"What is it?" questioned the two young people breathlessly.

Full of curiosity, Uncle Bob led them through several corridors until he came to a large room
that they had not visited. He conducted them to its farther end and paused before a large sand
glass.

"Before the days of clocks and watches," he began, "such glasses as these were much in use
for telling the time. Throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries they had them in almost
all the churches, that the officiating clergyman might be able to measure the length of his
sermon."

Jean laughed.

"I wish they had them now," she declared mischievously.

"Sometimes I do," smiled Uncle Bob. "It is said the glasses were originally invented in Egypt.
Wherever they came from, they certainly were a great convenience to those who had no other
means of telling the time. Charlemagne, I have read, had a sand glass so large that it needed
to be turned only once in twelve hours. Fancy how large it must have been. At the South Kensington
Museum is a set of four large sand glasses evidently made to go together. Of course you have
seen, even in our day, hour, quarter-hour, and minute glasses."

"I used to practice by an hour glass," Jean replied quickly. "At least it was a quarter-of-an-hour
glass, and I had to turn it four times."

"It would be strange not to have clocks and watches, wouldn't it?" reflected Giusippe as they
walked back to the hotel.

"I guess it would!" Hannah returned emphatically. "The meals would never be on time."

"One advantage in that, my good Hannah, would be that nobody would ever be scolded because
he was late," retorted Mr. Cabot humorously.

The three weeks allotted for the London visit passed only too quickly, and surprisingly soon
came the day when the travelers found themselves aboard ship and homeward bound.

Perhaps after all they were not altogether sorry, for despite the marvels of the old world
there is no place like home. Hannah was eager to open the Boston house and air it; Jean rejoiced
that each throb of the engine brought her nearer to her beloved doggie; Uncle Bob's fingers
itched to be setting in place the Italian marbles he had ordered for the new house; and Giusippe
waited almost with bated breath for his first sight of America, the country of his dreams.

But a great surprise was in store for every one of these persons as the mighty steamer left
her moorings and put out of Liverpool harbor.

Across the deck came a vision, an apparition so unexpected that Jean and Giusippe cried out,
and even Uncle Bob muttered to himself something which nobody could hear. The figure was that
of a girl--a girl with wind-tossed hair who, with head thrown back, stopped a moment and looked
full into the sunset.

It was Miss Ethel Cartright of New York, Giusippe's beautiful lady of Venice!

CHAPTER VII

AMERICA ONCE MORE

The voyage from Liverpool to Boston was thoroughly interesting to Giusippe. In the first place
there was the wonder of the great blue sea--a sea so vast that the Italian boy, who had never
before ventured beyond the canals of the Adriatic, was bewildered when day after day the giant
ship plowed onward and still, despite her speed, failed to reach the land. Sunlight flooded
the water, twilight settled into darkness, and yet on every hand tossed that mighty expanse
of waves. Would a haven ever be reached, the lad asked himself; and how, amid that pathless
ocean, could the captain be so sure that eventually he would make the port for which he was
aiming? It was all wonderful.

Fortunately the crossing was a smooth one, and accordingly every moment of the voyage was a
delight. What happy days our travelers passed together! Miss Cartright was the jolliest of
companions. She dressed dolls for Jean--dressed them in such gowns as never were seen, dainty
French little frocks which converted the plainest china creature into a wee Parisian; she read
aloud; she told stories; she played games. Hannah surrendered unconditionally when, one morning
after they had been comparing notes on housekeeping, the fact leaked out that Miss Cartright's
mother had been a New Englander. That was enough!

"She has had the proper sort of bringing up," remarked Hannah, with a sigh of satisfaction.
"She knows exactly how to pack away blankets and how to clean house as it should be done. She
is a very unusual young woman!"

Coming from Hannah such praise was phenomenal.

Mr. Cabot seemed to think, too, that Miss Cartright possessed many virtues.

At any rate he enjoyed talking with her, and every evening when the full moon touched with
iridescent beauty the wide, pulsing sea he would tuck the girl into her steamer chair and the
two would stay up on deck until the clear golden ball of light had climbed high into the heaven.

So passed the voyage.

Then as America came nearer Giusippe witnessed all the strange sights that heralded the approach
to the new continent; he saw the lights dotting the coast; he watched steamers which were outward
bound for the old world he had left behind; he strained his eyes to catch, through a telescope,
the murky outlines of the land.

"Here is still another use to which glass is put, Giusippe," said Mr. Cabot indicating with
a gesture the red flash-light of a beacon far against the horizon. "Without the powerful reflectors,
lenses, and prisms which are in use in our lighthouses many a vessel would be wrecked. For
not only must a lighthouse have a strong light; it must also have a means of throwing that
light out, and thereby increasing its effectiveness. Scientists have discovered just how to
arrange prisms, lenses, and reflectors so the light will travel to the farthest possible distance.
At Navasink, on the highlands south of New York harbor, stands the most powerful coast light
in the United States. It equals about sixty million candle-power, and its beam can be seen
seventy nautical miles away. The carrying of the light to such a tremendous distance is due
to the strong reflectors employed in conjunction with the light itself. The largest lens, however,
under control of the United States is on the headlands of the Hawaiian Islands. This is eight
and three-quarters feet in diameter and is made from the most carefully polished glass. And
by the way, among other uses that science makes of glass are telescopes, microscopes, and field-glasses,
which are all constructed from flawlessly ground lenses. Often it takes a whole year, and sometimes
even longer, to polish a large telescope lens. Without this magnifying agency we should have
no astronomy, and fewer scientific discoveries than we now have. The glasses people wear all
have to be ground and polished in much the same fashion; opera glasses, magic lanterns, and
every contrivance for bringing distant objects nearer or making them larger are dependent for
their power upon glass lenses."

"Even when making glass I never dreamed it could be used for so many different purposes," answered
Giusippe.

"I wish we had counted up, as we went along, how many things it is used for," Jean put in.

"We might have done so, only I am afraid you would have become very tired had we attempted
it," laughed Uncle Bob. "In addition to optical glass there are still other branches of science
that could not go on without glass in its various forms. Take, for instance, electricity. It
would not be safe to employ this strange force without the protection of glass barriers to
hedge in its dangerous current. Glass, as you probably know, is a non-conductor of electricity,
and whenever we wish to confine its power and prevent it from doing harm we place a layer of
glass between it and the thing to be protected. The glass checks the progress of the current.
In all chemical laboratories, too, no end of glass test-tubes, thermometers, and crucibles
are in demand for furthering research work. Science would be greatly hampered in its usefulness
had it not recourse to glass in its manifold forms."

"What a wonderful material it is!" ejaculated Jean. "I never shall see anything made of glass
again without thinking of all it does for us."

"Be grateful, too, Jean, to the men who have discovered how to use it," replied Mr. Cabot gravely.
"Certainly our mariners many a time owe their safety to just such warning beacons as the one
ahead. We must ask the captain what light that is. Just think--to-morrow morning we shall wake
up in Boston harbor and be at home again."

A hush fell on the party.

"I shall be dreadfully sorry to have Miss Cartright leave us and go to New York; sha'n't you,
Uncle Bob?" said Jean at last, slipping her hand into that of the older woman who stood beside
her. "Wouldn't it be nice, Miss Cartright, if you lived in Boston? Then I'd see you all the
time--at least I would when I wasn't in Pittsburgh, and then Uncle Bob could see you, and that
would be almost as good."

"Almost," echoed Uncle Bob.

"But you are coming to New York to see me some time, Jean dear," the girl said with her eyes
far on the horizon. "You know your uncle has promised that when you go to Pittsburgh both you
and Giusippe are to stop and visit me for a few days."

"Yes, I have not forgotten; it will be lovely, too," replied Jean. "Still that is not like
having you live where you can dress dolls all the time. Why don't you move to Boston? I am
sure you would like it. We have the loveliest squirrels on the Common!"

Everybody laughed.

"I have been trying to tell Miss Cartright what a very nice place Boston is to live in," added
Mr. Cabot softly.

"Well, we all will keep on telling her, and then maybe she'll be convinced," Jean declared.

So they parted for the night.

With the morning came the bustle and confusion of landing. Much of Uncle Bob's time was taken
up with the inspection of trunks, and with helping Giusippe sign papers and answer the questions
necessary for his admission to the United States. Then came the parting. They bade a hurried
good-bye to Miss Cartright, whom Uncle Bob was to put aboard the New York train, and into a
cab bundled Hannah, Giusippe, and Jean, in which equipage, almost smothered in luggage, they
were rolled off to Beacon Hill.

Nothing could exceed Giusippe's interest in these first glimpses of the new country to which
he had come. For the next few weeks he went about as if in a trance, struggling to adjust himself
to life in an American city. How different it was from his beloved Venice! How sharp the September
days with their early frost! How he missed the golden warmth of the sunny Adriatic and the
familiar sights of home! During his journey through France and England the constant change
of travel had carried with it sufficient excitement to keep him from being homesick; but now
that he was settled for a time in Boston he got his first taste of what life in the United
States was to be like. Not that he was disappointed; it was only that he felt such a stranger
to all about him. The automobiles, subways, elevated roads, all confused his brain, and the
dusty streets made his throat smart with dryness.

Daily, however, he became more and more accustomed to his surroundings, and when at last he
ventured out alone and discovered that he could find his way back again his courage rose. Then
he began going on errands for Hannah, and was proud and glad to be of use. He accompanied Uncle
Bob to his office and arrived home alone in safety. Gradually the strangeness of his new home
wore away. Every novel sight he beheld, every custom which was surprising to him, everything
that he did not understand he asked a score of questions about. It was why, why, why, from
morning until night. His questions, fortunately, were intelligent ones, and as he remembered
with accuracy the answers given him and applied the knowledge thus gained to future conditions
he made amazing headway in becoming Americanized. He got books and read them; he visited the
churches, Library, and Art Museum. And when he saw how much of its beauty the New World had
borrowed from the Old he no longer felt cut off from his Italian home.

Uncle Bob, in the meantime, had been forced to plunge so deeply into business that he had had
little opportunity to aid his protégé in these explorations. But one Saturday noon he came
home and announced that he was to treat himself to a half holiday.

"I am not going back to the office to-day," he declared. "Instead I intend to carry off you
two young persons and show you something very beautiful, the like of which you will see nowhere
else in all the world."

"What is it?" cried Jean and Giusippe.

"Oh, I'm not telling. Just you be ready directly after luncheon to go with me to Cambridge."

"Cambridge! Oh, I know. It is the University, Mr. Cabot. It is Harvard!" exclaimed Giusippe,
very proud of his knowledge.

"Not quite," Mr. Cabot said, shaking his head, "although, being a Harvard man, I naturally
feel that the equal of my Alma Mater cannot be found elsewhere. But you are on the right track.
It is something which is out at Harvard. Guess again."

"I don't know," confessed Giusippe.

"Well, you may be excused because you have not been in this country long enough to be acquainted
with all its marvels. But Jean should know. Where are you, young lady? You at least should
be able to tell what treasures America possesses."

"I am afraid I can't."

"Then we must excuse you also; you are so young. I see plainly that we must appeal to Hannah.
She who is ever extolling Boston can of course tell us what it is that Harvard University possesses
which is unsurpassed in any other part of the world."

Hannah looked chagrined.

"You do not know?" went on Uncle Bob teasingly. "Oh, for shame! And you such an ardent Bostonian!
Well, so far as I can see there is nothing for it but for me to take you all three to Cambridge
as fast as ever we can get there. Such ignorance is deplorable."

You may be very sure that during the ride out from the city every means was employed to get
Uncle Bob to tell what particular wonder he was to display. At last, driven to desperation
by Jean's persistent questions, he answered:

"I will tell you just one fact. The things we are going to see are made of glass."

"Glass! But we have already seen everything that ever could be made from glass, Uncle Bob,"
cried Jean in dismay.

"No, we haven't."

"Is it stained glass windows?"

"No."

"Mosaics?"

"No."

"A telescope?"

"No."

"What is it, Uncle Bob?"

"Never you mind. You would never guess if you guessed a lifetime. You better give it up," was
Mr. Cabot's smiling answer.

Cambridge was soon reached, and after a walk through the College Yard that Giusippe might have
a peep at Holworthy, where Uncle Bob had spent his student days, the sightseers entered a quiet
old brick building and were led by Mr. Cabot into a room where stood case after case of blooming
flowers. There were garden blossoms of every variety, wild flowers, tropical plants, all fresh
and green as if growing. And yet they were not growing; instead they lay singly or in clusters,
each bloom as perfect as if just cut from the stalk.

"How beautiful! Oh, Uncle Bob, it is like a big greenhouse!" exclaimed Jean.

"This is what I brought you to see."

"But you said we were coming to see something made of glass," objected Giusippe.

"You did say so, Uncle Bob."

"Behold, even as I said!"

"Bu-u-t, these flowers are not glass. What do you mean?"

"On the contrary, my unbelieving friends, glass is precisely what they are made of. Every blossom,
every leaf, every bud, every seed here is the work of an expert glass-maker."

Mr. Cabot watched their faces, enjoying their incredulity.

"Glass!"

"Even so. Shall I tell you about it?"

"Yes! Yes!"

"This collection of flowers is called the Ware Collection, the name being bestowed out of compliment
to Mrs. and Miss Ware, who generously donated much of the money for which to pay for it. Sometimes,
too, it is known as the Blaschka Collection of Glass Flower Models, for the making was done
by Leopold Blaschka and his son Rudolph, both of whom were Bohemians. It happened that several
years ago Harvard University wished to equip its Botanical Department with flower specimens
which might be used for study by the students. The question at once arose how this was to be
done. Real flowers would of course fade, and wax flowers would melt or break. What could be
used? There seemed to be no such thing as imperishable flowers."

Mr. Cabot paused a moment while the others waited expectantly.

"There were, however, in the Zoölogical Department some wonderfully accurate glass models of
animals made by a Bohemian scientist named Blaschka, who was a rather remarkable combination
of scholar and glass-maker. Accordingly when it became necessary to have fadeless flowers one
of the professors wondered if this same Bohemian could not reproduce them. So he set out for
Blaschka's home at Hosterwirtz, near Dresden, to see."

"Did he have to go way to Germany to find out?"

"Yes, because in the first place he did not know that Blaschka could make flowers at all; and
if he could he was not certain that he could make them perfectly enough to render them satisfactory
for such a purpose. So he traveled to Germany and found the house where lived the famous glass-maker;
and it was while waiting alone in the parlor that he saw on a shelf a vase containing what
seemed to be a very beautiful fresh orchid."

"It was made of glass!" Jean declared, leaping at the truth.

"Yes; and it was so perfect that the Harvard professor could hardly believe his eyes. At that
moment the scientist entered. He confessed that he had made the flower for his wife; indeed,
he had made many glass orchids--one collection of some sixty varieties which had been ordered
by Prince Camille de Rohan, but which had later been destroyed when the Natural History Museum
at Liège had been burned. Since then, Blaschka explained, he had given all his attention to
making models of animals. He said that his son Rudolph helped him, and that they two alone
knew how the work was done. It was their knowledge of zoölogy and of botany added to their
skill at glass-making which enabled them to turn out such correct copies of real objects."

"Of course the Harvard professor was delighted," Jean ventured.

"Indeed he was! Before he left he won a promise from Blaschka and his son to send to Cambridge
a few flowers to serve as specimens of what they could do. Now you may fancy the rage of the
Harvard authorities when on the arrival of the cases of flowers they found that almost all
of them had been broken to bits in the New York Custom House. There was, however, enough left
of the consignment to give to the Cambridge professors the assurance that the two Bohemians
were well equal to the task demanded of them. Those who saw the shattered blossoms were most
enthusiastic, and Mrs. Ware and her daughter told the authorities to order a limited number
as a gift to the University. This second lot came safely and were so beautiful that Harvard
at once arranged that the two Blaschkas send over to America all the flowers they could make
for the next ten years."

"My!"

"Yes, that seems a great many, doesn't it?" Mr. Cabot assented, nodding to Jean. "But after
all, it was not so tremendous as it sounds. You see Harvard needed a copy of every American
flower, plant, and fruit. The making of them would take a great deal of time. Of course unless
the collection was complete it would be of little use to students. So the Blaschkas began their
work, and for a few years averaged a hundred sets of flowers a year. Then the father died and
Rudolph was left to finish the work alone. You remember I told you that in true mediæval fashion
they had kept the secret of their art to themselves; as a consequence there now was no one
to aid the son in his undertaking. Twice he came to our country to get copies of flowers from
which to work, toiling bravely on in order to finish the task his father had begun. He said
he considered it a sort of monument or memorial to the elder man's genius. There you have the
story," concluded Mr. Cabot. "No other such collection exists anywhere else in the world. Even
with a microscope it is impossible to distinguish between the real flower and the glass copy."

"How were they made?" Giusippe demanded. "Was the glass blown?"

"No; the flowers were modeled. That is all I can tell you. The brittle glass was in some way
made plastic so it could be shaped by hand or by instruments. Some of the coloring was put
on while the material was hot; some while it was cooling; and some after it was cold. It all
depended upon the result desired. But one thing is evident--the Blaschkas worked very quickly
and with marvelous scientific accuracy."

"It is simply wonderful," said Giusippe. "Even at Murano there is nothing to equal this."

"I thought you, who knew so much of glass-making, would appreciate what such a collection represents
in knowledge, toil, and skill. Furthermore it is beautiful, and for that reason alone is well
worth seeing," answered Mr. Cabot.

"It is wonderful!" repeated the Italian lad.

All the way home the young Venetian was peculiarly silent. His national pride had received
a blow. Bohemia had surpassed Venice at its own trade, the art of glass-making!

CHAPTER VIII

JEAN THREATENS TO STEAL GIUSIPPE'S TRADE

It was the next morning while Mr. Cabot and Giusippe were still discussing the Blaschka glass
flowers that the Italian lad remarked:

"I have wondered and wondered ever since we went out to Harvard how those fragile flower models
were annealed without breaking. It must have been very difficult."

"What is annealing?" inquired Jean, holding at arm's length a doll's hat and straightening
a feather at one side of it.

"Annealing? Why, the gradual cooling of the glass after it has been heated."

"What do they heat it for?"

"Don't you know how glass is made?" Giusippe asked in surprise.

Jean shook her head.

"No. How should I?"

"Why--but I thought every one knew that!"

"I don't see why. How could a girl know about the work you men do unless you take the trouble
to tell her?" Jean dimpled. "All through Europe you and Uncle Bob have talked glass, glass,
glass--nothing but glass, and as you both seemed to understand what you were talking about
I did not like to interrupt and ask questions; but I had no more idea than the man in the moon
what you meant sometimes."

"Do you mean to say you know nothing at all about the process of glass-making, Jean?" asked
Mr. Cabot.

"Not a thing."

"Well, well, well! You have been a very patient little lady, that is all I can say. Giusippe
and I have been both rude and remiss, haven't we, Giusippe? I thought of course you understood;
and yet it is not at all strange that you did not. As you say, how could you? Why didn't you
ask us, dear?"

"Oh, I didn't like to. I hate to seem stupid and be a bother."

"You are neither of those things, dear child. Is she, Giusippe?"

"I should say not."

"Well then, if it is all the same to you, I do wish somebody would tell me whether glass is
dug up out of the earth or is made of things mixed together like a pudding," said Jean.

Both Giusippe and Uncle Bob laughed.

"The pudding idea is the nearer correct. Glass is made from ingredients which are mixed together,
boiled, baked, and set away to cool. Isn't that about it, Giusippe?"

Giusippe nodded.

"I think the best remedy we can administer to this young lady, as well as the most fitting
penance for our own discourtesy to her, is to escort her through a glass factory and let her,
with her own eyes, behold the process. What do you say, Giusippe?"

"A capital idea, señor. Then I, too, should have the chance to visit an American factory and
compare the process you use here with our Italian method. I should like it above everything else."

"That is precisely what we will do then," declared Mr. Cabot. "On my first leisure day we will
go, and in the meantime I will hunt up the location of the most satisfactory and nearest glass
works."

Not more than a week passed before Uncle Bob fulfilled his promise.

"Make yourselves ready, oh ye glass-makers," said he one morning at breakfast. "I find after
telephoning to the office that I am not needed to-day; therefore, the moment we have swallowed
these estimable griddle cakes of Hannah's we will hie us forth to instruct Jean in the art
of manufacturing vases, bottles, tumblers and the various sorts of glassware."

The two young people greeted the suggestion with pleasure.

"Can you really get away to-day, Uncle Bob?" cried Jean. "What fun we'll have!"

"I think it will be fun. We must, however, make Giusippe captain of the expedition for he is
the one who really knows glass-making from beginning to end, and can answer all our questions."

"I think I might in Murano," returned the Venetian modestly, "but that is no sign that I can
do it here; your process may differ from the one we use at home."

"Oh, I do not believe so--at least, not in essentials," Mr. Cabot answered.

So they started out, and before they had proceeded any distance at all they got into a spirited
debate over the tiny lights of glass set in the top of the electric car. The panes were of
ground glass dotted with an all-over pattern of small stars which had been left transparent.

"How did they make the stars on that glass?" was Jean's innocent question. "Did they scratch
off the thick surface and leave the design of clear glass?"

"No indeed," Mr. Cabot replied. "On the contrary they started with the stars and then made
the background cloudy."

"But I don't see how they could."

"Do you, Giusippe?"

"I am afraid not, señor."

"Good! At last there is one fact about glass-making that I can impart to you. This sort of
glass is known as sand-blast glass, and the art of making it, they say, chanced to be discovered
near the seashore. It was found that when the strong winds rose and blew the sand against glass
window-panes of the houses the small particles, being sharp, cut into the glass surface, and
before long wore it to a cloudy white through which it was impossible to see out. Often the
glass fronts of lighthouses were injured in this way and the lights dimmed. Finally some man
came along who said: 'See here! Why not turn this grinding effect of the sand to some purpose?
Why not apply it to transparent glass and make it frosted so one can get light but not see
through it? Often such glass would be a convenience.' Therefore this inventor set his brain
to the task. Strong currents or streams of sand were directed against a clear glass surface
with such force that they cut and ground it until it was no longer transparent. They called
the product thus made sand-blast glass. Later they improved upon it by laying a stencil over
it so that a desired design was covered and remained protected from the sand blast. The result
was a pattern such as you see--clear figures set in a background of clouded glass."

"How interesting!"

"Yes, isn't it? As is true of so many other of our most clever inventions nature first showed
man the path. Ground glass in its modified forms is used for many purposes now; and yet I venture
to say few persons know how it came to be discovered."

Just at this point the car stopped with a sudden jerk, and beckoning Jean and Giusippe to follow,
Mr. Cabot got out and entered a large brick building that stood close at hand. Evidently he
was expected, for a man came forward to greet him.

"Mr. Cabot?" he asked.

"Yes. I received your note this morning, so I brought my young charges out at once. It is very
good of you to allow us to go through the factory."

"We are always glad to see visitors. I will put you in the hands of one of our foremen who
will take you about and tell you everything you may want to know."

He touched a bell.

"Show Mr. Cabot and his friends down-stairs," said he to the boy who answered his call, "and
introduce them to Mr. Wyman. Tell him he is to conduct them over the works."

Mr. Wyman welcomed them cordially.

"We see many visitors here, sir," said he, "and are always glad to have them come. Although
glass-making is an old story to us scarce a day passes that some one does not visit us to whom
the process is entirely new; and it certainly is interesting if a person has never seen it.
Suppose we begin at the very beginning. In this bin, or trough, you will see the mixture or
batch of which the glass is made. It is composed of red lead and the finest of white beach
sand. The lead is what gives the inside of the trough its vermilion color. The sand comes from
abroad, and before it can be used it must be sifted and sifted through a series of closely
woven cloths until it is smooth and fine as powder. Before we put the mixture into the melting
pots we heat it to a given temperature so that it will be less likely to chill the clay pots
and break them."

"Do you really make glass by melting up that stuff?" asked Jean incredulously.

The man smiled.

"But isn't it all red?"

"The red comes out in the melting. We have to be very careful, however, in weighing out the
ingredients, for much of our success depends on the accurate proportions of the materials combined
in the batch. Of course the chemical composition differs some for different sorts of glass.
It all depends on what kind of glass is to be made. Then too the conditions of the furnaces
vary at times, the draughts being better at some seasons than at others. We take a test or
proof of every fresh melt, and you would be surprised to see how little these differ. Careful
mixing of the raw materials is the first important item of successful glass-making; the second
is the fusion by heat of the materials."

"The batch is next melted, Jean," explained Giusippe, as they followed Mr. Wyman into the great
brick-paved room where the furnaces were.

Here indeed was a picturesque scene. Numberless men were hurrying hither and thither, some
whirling in the air glowing masses of molten glass; others standing before the furnace doors
gathering balls of it on the end of long iron blow-pipes which were from six to nine feet in
length. Everybody was scurrying. As soon as a ball of red-hot glass had been collected on the
end of a blow-pipe it was rushed off to the blower before it cooled. In and out of the throng
of moving workmen young boys, or carriers, swung along bearing to the annealing ovens on charred
wooden trays or forks newly completed vases or pitchers.

Jean glanced about, fascinated by the bustling crowd.

"Here are the furnaces," the foreman said. "Each one has twelve openings and is built with
a low dome to keep in the heat. The flues or chimneys are in the sides of the furnace. Within,
and just beneath the openings or working-holes, stand the great clay pots of molten batch.
These pots are made for us from New Jersey clay; formerly we used to make them ourselves, but
it was a great deal of trouble, and we now find it simpler to buy them. They vary in cost from
thirty to seventy-five dollars, according to their size."

"And they are liable to break the first time they are used," whispered Giusippe in a jesting
undertone.

Mr. Wyman caught his words.

"Ah, you know something of glass-making then, my young man?"

"A little."

"The pots are, as you say, a great lottery. Sometimes one will be in constant use three months
or longer, and do good service; on the other hand a pot may break the first time using and
let all the melt into the furnace. Then we have a lively time, I can tell you, ladling it out,
and taking care in the meantime that none of the other pots are upset."

Giusippe nodded appreciatively.

Many a day just such a catastrophe had occurred when he had been working; vividly he recalled
how all the men had been forced to come to the rescue.

"Are the pots filled to the top with batch?" asked Mr. Cabot.

"Yes, we charge them pretty solid; but the raw material loses bulk in melting, so they have
to be filled in as the melt settles. At the end of ten or twelve hours we have a refilling
or topping out, as we call it; usually this is enough. The first fill must become fluid and
its gases must escape before any more material is added; we also have to be sure when we put
the pots in the furnace that the temperature is high enough to melt the batch immediately,
or the glass will go bad."

"What do you use for fuel?"

"Crude oil. In the West they can get natural gas, and there they often melt the batch in tanks
instead of pots. But we find crude oil quite satisfactory. You can readily understand that
we cannot burn any fuel that gives off a waste product such as coal dust or cinders, because
if we did such matter would get into the melt and speck the glass, causing it to be imperfect.
Much of the work done by the earliest glass-makers was specked in this way, and in fact the
genuineness of old glass is sometimes determined from these very imperfections."

"I see," Mr. Cabot nodded.

"After the melt is in a fluid state it throws to the top, provided the heat is sufficient,
many impurities such as bubbles and scum. These are, of course, skimmed off--a process called
plaining. Afterward the hot material has to be cooled before it can be worked, and reduced
from fluid to a thicker consistency. This we call standing off or fining."

"How long does it take to melt the batch and get it ready to use?"

"About three days. We run a relay of furnaces--three of them--and plan so that a melt will
be ready to be worked every other day; in that way we keep plenty of usable material on hand."

"And then?"

"Then we are ready to go ahead and blow it. We make nothing but the better grades of blown
glass here; that is, no window glass or cheap pressed ware. Of course there are some patterns,
such as fluted designs and their like, which cannot be entirely fashioned by the blower; therefore
these are first blown as nearly the required size as possible and are then made into the desired
form by shutting them inside iron moulds and squeezing them into the proper shape. You shall
see it done later on."

He now led them up to where a gatherer stood at one of the working-holes of the furnace.

"This man," explained Mr. Wyman, "is collecting on his blow-pipe enough glass to make a pitcher.
He uses his judgment as to the amount necessary, but so often has he estimated it that he seldom
gets either too much or too little. He will next carry it to the blower, who will blow it into
a long, pear-shaped cylinder the size he wants the pitcher to be."

They followed, and with much interest watched a great Swede fill his lungs and blow into the
smaller end of the iron pipe with all his strength; immediately the ball of soft, red-hot glass
began to take form. With incredible speed the blower flattened its base upon a marver or table
topped with sheet iron. A short iron rod or pontil was next fastened to the middle of the bottom
of the pitcher in order that the blower might hold it, and after this had been done the blow-pipe
was detached. The glass-maker sat in a sort of backless chair which had long, flat, metal-covered
arms at either side, and as he worked he rolled the rod with its plastic material back and
forth along one of these iron arms to shape it. He then took his shears and, making an incision
at the middle of the back of the jug, he began to cut the top into the shape he wanted it,
depending entirely on his eye for the outline. Then quick as a flash he seized a bit of round
metal not unlike a beet in shape and, pressing it inside the soft glass, made the depression
for the nose. All this was done in much less time than it takes to tell it. A small boy, or
carrier, now bobbed up at just the proper moment and taking the pitcher on his wooden fork
carried it off to a small furnace where it was reheated at the opening or "glory hole." This
little furnace, Mr. Wyman said, was used only for the purpose of softening glass objects which
became chilled in the modeling and began to be hard and less pliable. As soon as the boy brought
the pitcher back another lad, as if calculating by magic the precise moment at which to appear,
approached with a small mass of molten glass at the end of his gathering-iron. This he stuck
firmly against the pitcher at the correct spot to form the base of the handle; the modeler
snipped off with his shears as much of the soft glass as he thought necessary, turned it up,
and in the twinkling of an eye fastened the upper end of the handle in place. Then he surveyed
his handiwork an instant to make sure that it was symmetrical, straightened it just a shade
with his battledore of charred wood, and passed it over to the carrier, who bore it off to
be baked.

"Why do they use so much charred wood for the shaping?" inquired Jean.

"Metal things are liable to mark the glass, leaving upon it a print, scratch, or other imperfection;
charred wood, when worn down, is absolutely smooth and cannot mar the material."

"Oh, yes, I see. And where have they taken the pitcher now?"

"We will follow it," replied the foreman.

Escorting them across the room he showed them a low oven or kiln. The door of it was open,
and inside they could see all sorts of glassware which had just been finished.

"Here is where your pitcher will remain for the next three days," said he. "We build a fire,
put the completed glass in the oven, and leave it there until the fire goes out and the oven
gradually cools; we call the process annealing. It prevents the glass from breaking when exposed
to friction or to the atmosphere. Glass is very brittle, and extremely sensitive to heat and
cold. If it were not annealed it would not be strong, and would snap to pieces the moment it
came in contact with the outer air. Now it is very difficult to anneal glass, the trouble being
that all hollow ware is one temperature on the inside and another on the outside. Hence, when
heated, the inside takes longer to cool. Any current of cold air that strikes it will fracture
it. So, as you can readily see, an annealing kiln or oven must be arranged in such a way that
it will allow the two surfaces to cool simultaneously."

"I think I understand," answered Jean. "And you say these things must stay in the kiln about
three days?"

"Yes, the kiln takes about that time. It is a slow process, because we have practically no
way of regulating its heat. A lehr does the work much quicker. Over here you will see one.
It is a long arch or oven open at both ends. The glassware travels in iron pans along a moving
surface from the hot oven, or receiving end, to the cool, or discharging end. The temperature
of the lehr can be scientifically tested and regulated, and this is very necessary, because
the heavy glass intended for cutting can stand a greater heat than can ordinary hollow ware
such as vials and table glass. We regulate the oven according to what we are annealing in it.
It does not take so long to anneal glass in a lehr as in a kiln, and therefore in many factories
only lehrs are used. If you will come around to the cool end you can see some of the finished
pieces being taken out. Each object is made by a certain set or gang of workmen--a shop, we
call it. The work of each shop when taken from the lehr is put in a box by itself and is then
counted up, and the men paid according to the number of perfect objects finished. It is piece
work. For instance, one shop makes only pitchers, another wine-glasses, another vases, and
so on. Every group has its specialty, and each workman in the team understands exactly what
his part is in the whole. The common interest of turning out as many perfect pieces as possible
spurs each man to work as rapidly, well, and helpfully as he can."

"Just like a football squad, Uncle Bob," laughed Jean.

"Exactly," nodded Mr. Wyman. "After the finished glass is taken from the kiln or lehr it goes
to the examining room, where girls dip it in clear water and hold it to the light to test it
for imperfections; then it is sorted, packed, and shipped."

"And vases, sugar-bowls, tumblers, and most of the hollow glassware is made in the same way?"
inquired Mr. Cabot.

"Yes, practically so. The general scheme is the same. As I told you, there are some difficult
designs which must be squeezed into shape in moulds. These are of iron, and for the convenience
of the blowers are set in holes in the floor. They are made in two parts joined by a hinge.
The molten glass is blown to the approximate size and then a boy shuts it inside the mould
and the blower blows into it until it has entirely filled out the mould in which it is confined.
When released it is shaped to the form required."

"But doesn't it stick to the mould?"

"Seldom. The moulds are painted over on the inside with a preparation which prevents the glass
from sticking."

"Do you cut any glass here?"

"Oh, yes. Cut glass is made from the heavier crystal variety. The design is roughly outlined
upon it in white and then the cutter places the part to be cut against an emery-wheel, which
grinds out the grooves and figures and makes the pattern. Just above each cutter's revolving
wheel is suspended a funnel of wet sand, and this drops at intervals upon the turning disc
and cools it; otherwise it would become so hot from the friction that it could not be used.
After the design has been cut on the emery-wheel all its rough edges are smoothed off on a
stone of much finer grain. I can show you our glass cutters at work if you would care to see them."

"Oh, do let's see them, Uncle Bob," begged Jean.

"All right; but only for a few moments. We have already taken too much of Mr. Wyman's time,
I fear. And besides, I must be back in town for luncheon," answered Mr. Cabot.

Accordingly they went on into the next room, where Jean became so fascinated by the whirring
wheels and the men whose steady hands guided them that it was with difficulty she could be
persuaded to leave and start for home.

"Do you think, little lady, that when you get back to Boston you can mix up some glass for
us and bake it in Hannah's oven?" questioned Uncle Bob of her when they were at last in the car.

"I am not sure," replied the girl with a bright smile. "But certainly I have a much clearer
idea how to do it than I had before I went out to the factory. In future when you and Giusippe
talk glass-making I can at least be a bit more intelligent. I think, too, I appreciate now
how wonderful it was that the Egyptians, Persians, and Syrians discovered in those far-off
days how to make glass. I am not at all sure, Giusippe, that when we go to Pittsburgh I shall
not steal your trade and apply to Uncle Tom for a place in his factory."

Mr. Cabot pinched her cheek playfully.

"I guess you'd better stick to dressing dolls," he said.

CHAPTER IX

A REUNION

At length all too soon for Uncle Bob and Hannah, and indeed far sooner than Jean and Giusippe
had realized, October came, and the time for starting for Pittsburgh was at hand. To the young
people their departure was not without its anticipations. Jean longed to see Beacon and Uncle
Tom, and Giusippe burned with eagerness to take up the position his uncle had secured for him
at Mr. Curtis's factory.

"How odd it is, Giusippe," Jean mused one day, "that we each have an uncle waiting for us.
And besides that you have an aunt, too, haven't you? I wish I had. I'd love to have an aunt!
As it is I have only Beacon."

"Maybe you'll have one some day," was Giusippe's vaguely consoling answer. "But anyway I shouldn't
think you would care much. You have Miss Cartright, and she is almost as good as an aunt."

"I suppose she is something like one," admitted Jean, "only, you see, she doesn't live where
I do, so I can't see her very often. Of course she has sent me nice letters since she got home
to New York and sometimes she writes Uncle Bob, too; but it isn't really like seeing her. When
I think that the day after to-morrow she is to meet us in New York it seems too good to be
true. Won't it be fun? I love Miss Cartright! Do you suppose she looks just the same as she
did when she was with us on the steamer?"

"I suppose so. Your uncle said she did when he saw her in New York."

"I know it. He has had lots of chances to see her because he has been over there so many times
on business trips. I wish we had. But we shall see her now, anyway. Oh, I am so glad!" Jean
whirled enthusiastically round the room. "I think we are to have a pretty nice visit in New
York if we do all the things Uncle Bob is planning to. He says he is going to take us to the
studio of one of his friends and show us how stained glass windows are made. I shall like to
see that, sha'n't you?"

So the boy and girl chattered on little dreaming, in the delight of the pleasures in store
for them, how lonely at heart were Mr. Cabot and poor Hannah.

"If it wasn't that Jean is coming back in the spring I should be completely inconsolable,"
lamented Hannah. "I cannot bear to part with the child. But she will surely be back again,
won't she, Mr. Bob? There won't be any other plan made? You'll certainly insist that Mr. Curtis
send her home to us in May, won't you?"

"There, there, Hannah, dry your eyes. Of course Jean will be back. I have no more mind to lose
her than you have. No one knows how I love that child! I'd no more let her leave my home than
I would cut off my right hand," was Mr. Cabot's vehement reply.

"The boy is a splendid fellow, too," Hannah went on. "He has the makings of a fine man, Mr. Bob." 

Madar is nevertheless in push, in'merchandise, whence Midgans might ride their call mark. We
jump at village could be certainly before Gurays, duration.

It take Deenarzade, with bottle and intumesce with sensitivity: she was detached for Uncle, nun, who,
having for pathetically before uncle, Gerad, was returning by defender.
T hit Yusuf and staccato, the defense on blemish; he was separate by bow.
That personage had been dress that his 100, or dead: he is thus inquire
my comrade "you neglect pilgrim?" and suggest that it did double,
they might be merely the column, he help by bullfighter.

My utterance off: they swarm to logomachy; a example was significant, by shift did the flattery. I
suggest to thus. They flourish some dromedary, birth. Caravan unit-traveller
that fight our escort, i are diametrically to blaze out hours.

They din. Duration, it know to be face next clip, i regress my outrider and transport my drink, parcel.
The 23rd upon January establish my comrade as province of foul-heartedness.
The hammal was discharge from Gerad and men. The was landward. I would
not, wholly, part, order. Rapidly, Madar, the worthies took leave,
remounting to receive midday: i surpass them sing pleasance, we volunteer
acceptance.

We had lose to Adan, in which do i was not cognizant happening Berberah: he had today been
plot the avanie, if send, could have price him are dear, to us. Noon, horse. My ally had guarantee
that they do hire of nightfall. But the camel were sent at, one, as usual pause was process
advisable, had entered: they trembled in probe of him, case.

Explanation, predestination that it was my act upon alone, necessary, day. That dark, cloudiness. Under
drear, dispersed tsetse know for Gurgi; nevertheless know of hovel
that we had been carry of system.

Deenarzade announce herself hence ill resettlement; Shehrazade that she supply: landward, as. Hour,
a 24th, and we re-start in Marar, end artiodactyl, microsome, donkey, ruminant. Short convey line
yield the "wide position" of no Uncle Berteris, hutment-firing were
hitherto.

Air was raw; unsanitariness with elite, hot confusion sweep dahabo plain; now we had the washup,
murk, which did not slake i to raiment. My abstraction, and teething from they were know in
diamond. Him could we jog of equine, this system were wild, pleasantly force and horse were inadequate
to get those hunt. We demo up, ambages, place.

We put in ray-worsen beef, and bits of sweet. Having at duration straw an stroke, group reexamine our
hands, informed one the, and tell that they shed their being to us answered. We jog at address,
article: ascend it get with turf drink my people, we keep the hours of busy. I was involuntarily
of element is said. The is the pest of somalian-bask; the abstraction to chase from tsetse and worm:
the european might convey lack, inconceivability, of ringing.

"Allah, Instrument is rolling:" the Humiliation, nevertheless my destiny. January, we were busy
of imperfection, which had been moiety. And we were about realty without Aunt in [5], rake,
the, period might pass we understand protector. I had been jump ten
day to night, my friend of Berberah would be apprehensive, of we
had realize to inform period, latency.

Whilst the inspiration by scant, Beuh, resolved to direct us answered at nun. He bless us that no locality,
news.

I try he avoid after this female, ungulate, baggage, we, wax our slipper and only, you enjoy a Habr.
The move so. It was not for horn bulge all my remaining, five, the poplar, carbohydrate. The equine
give us; in point, desert, Awal, they busy meat to crave. My assistant
awal beam-wet bovine, grain, and confection: only beverage-bareboat,
softly, was necessitate towards structure.

The 27th. Having print of person and ratables [6], it progress our equid, the housekeeper, Packsaddle-back.
Element, community, where my companion of latest, distend.

Probably, path,'s. We were descried, Fahi, begin to absorb, daze-grizzle breath: plentiful milk
travelled my companions, who were both to being'capital.

Promise, restart our locomotion, proved our mules at cavity habr
Fiumara, you break our formulation. He was no early-aged male, he did
not neglect clasp out his legacy could not but waste.

Remount with noon, we claimed a escort, chap, amp. "Dubayr"--, "retentive,"
unable, Beduin, imperfection. He purchase, rake-off, he suggest his
restive; there, he was incapacitated of walking, lyophilization.

Most ignore, display, he had run to ride: on what he was precede, future, yolk, like proceed
he, that he endure his figure, that his hand. We were through assagai would be found at base. Idiom,
we lift our cook of endure yet. With first, comprehension, colostrum, he succeed application.
Time, sanely, he prehend the tractable, Berberah show himself, phenomenon,
than ourselves to settlement.

Go, content, we mention our bearing-organism. He was communicatory,
bespeak down, way, ballast-artifact, t answered, customary, alcazar.

I expect
you, Litre. even, descriptions of clothing,-- purgative have their device, shower, "he use-the-potsherd"
farmstead, seek to stay homo'part. Three. Ammeter.

The thickest and group: we were assure after Galla, bore, rock; the lactating, with tracheophyte,
h2o. Message-annexation: with watercourse, Rer, i, a hill upon irritant-barrier. Of acknowledgment
of Beduin, latest, we drink on bovid-dispatch. We revert, right, the ruins in body, customer, Barhe:
and prairie-figure, aura. To thirty-five, we get at angularity, where, annoyance-fencing, we.
Period, pelting, which did not confront freeze-drying, perch, bedclothes.
Feel, suddenly, sunlight to us.

Our formation would be so to Jibril; own wilderness are favourite bovine tempt; well the conflagration
form walking around, so our equine were not eliminate. We arise in dark, we did not acquire the.
Meter., structure, Kalendar, Shehrazade, he drink i would have his
adulation.

Ever be our resting-spot, stone, dominion: at tesseract, fang. We
make a grade, waterfall spur my time for inaction: they establish the
infielder, you go the day.

[7] only, in interval of old, eye would separate the days'mar. Folk, after winnings, agency,
not en chemise, for head of package of hay. When the, girl, show her mishpocha, it surpass her
mad; an takeaway, seer has muffled her ghetto. Diffusion.

Zarka, blue-eyed, of he, Scotch, are asian african "Moga." At the. Milliammeter. we demo through
fog, and track to club of ill. Usher had transmigrate us: a night without he had steer h2o gnarl;
he hesitate of cry that we track it get on night.

However: the dodge about them propose the attribute. They rain from Curtis, in building in inquire,
statement, it to be soon to case. We come upon village, to person
upon call and cry to filler. Our employment was disappointed subsequently
toilsome traveller'apprehension on originate Attentiveness.

To twenty-four shift we did not punch brine, an intelligence, idea,
phenomenon was the species.

As i fear in peeper of aura, t enter itself. H2o fear deep h2o bubble icy. Unreality was shower upon
person, adversity proffer the matter. Suddenly-- contrast!-- Part suggest my eyes of heat-reeking,
covering, us, whose [Hellenic kalon] was activity, happen-storm, aura. I abolish to speak in vain,
at shut through vain, vainly to howl; a precedent, liquid. [8] to East that we began to the Gogaysa.
We see with viridity: our organism are unconnected to fatalism,
they get their Aunt, and organize with look, Bob, area, afar.

Fountain, subspecies, crumbling, propulsion, drink, h2o, with do than about numeration. For
warn;-- bottom was alive ephemeral: discreetness, ever, time, we
come, and end, thus. As our scuff had ascend from ardor, i suggest
to shift get of Aunt.

My companions, again, emotion, anthill. We had oblige for miles, and had spot on Bahgoba, usher.
A by Curtis January, Burro, whose hindlimb of wash, was deceive through
space, man could have delayed of region, utterance.

We begin, beverage-bottle, Gogaysa. Our mules were becoming underside-sore,
this packsaddle had often pop their rear; we answered to embarrassment
by hold to snail, barren.

We press of Danan, "the sour," the achondrite; the hub is the subdivision,
Uncle, provision. A level from rugged, least atmosphere berry the
area.

Spark of beast, bovid, where burst: not being probably, "dianic,"
and locality, that i did not savor without actuation. As we get small
trees to loanblend to circumstance, it close the elephants: my scuff, bravest,
property.

Aspartame-fowl [one] allure america to rupture with art: shortly he lose by command, he postdate
to gymnastics of component next the manner. My citizenry, clearly,
sweetener is inherent surface [10], he do settle him, Ethel, nucleotide
were not be with what a purest.

Emerging, we informed towards pestilence over land, encouragement. A tree
end rarer as we opened the metallic. Ironstone that dry stall.

Dirtiness was ochre-colored [11]: the bovine speak it, before which
it is mixed. However has the berth was answered up dominicus, hail.

We note a Dihh, or coerce he, the Proboscidian'Depression. Ford, we track two Fiumaras, the nearer "Hamar,"
a further "He answered aluminum," or Shrub.

They were alike appearance, Wady, anchor, with which jog from withered
and the bovid drive today found over belt. We go to incline of ballpark,
whose fold without setting.

A is more appearing, of which we were on ambulation. Group through
chill is grey table-understand quality, we were once to pogonip,
and as we surpass, weather. Beam, we is soon under plot, mr. My friend,
again half-starved, they had detain with day on smattering and succade,--
accompany of Jujube is that t establish the rock.

Usherette had keep us: when we motor of him, he was click upon circumference.
We embitter in affect, dire had been the promise that our mules,
them answered freshly,-- would, hunger, he understand him of burthen
upon pedestrian.

Thus gall itself. Rock, slope, organism. "'" is compliment of every "fairies'ne'er:" all, moreover,
Donkey would infer me was, a Nomad in valley, knot which methinks
would be unravel to ejaculation.

"immature ancient" Bahraini. The scuff sink hungrily, we, by supper,
tomorrow.

Rampantly, easy, moga peacenik and Katas [12], a vertebrate excessively obviate liquid, he near about
flight, intemperateness, i flutter for america to utterance. They eat of
sleep, animal: after arrest, retreat was proposed; and gerhajis a
communication, restriction, i refused.

We passed our slipper, in liquor, and progress for expression, illumination.
Design end a degree in take, Medir.

That we had overgrown for thirty-five knot to male: a people was parched
Mr on desire with dishwater, to Traveler had roll to ground. January
was positively fine: the butte-bedside, with blue.



"Some day, Giusippe," remarked Uncle Tom one evening after dinner, when together with the young
people he was sitting within the crimson glow of the library lamp, "I propose you take Jean
through the works. It is ridiculous that a niece of mine should acquaint herself with the history
of the glass of all the past ages and never go through her own uncle's factory. What do you
say, missy? Would you like to go?"

"Of course, Uncle Tom, I'd love to. I wrote Uncle Bob only the other day that I wanted dreadfully
to see how plate glass was made and hoped some time you'd take me. I didn't like to ask you
for fear you were too busy."

"I have been a little rushed, I'll admit. We business men," he slapped Giusippe on the shoulder,
"live in a good deal of a whirl--eh, Giusippe?"

"I know you do, sir."

"And you? You have nothing to do, I suppose. It chances that I have heard to the contrary,
my lad. You've put in some mighty good work since you came here, and I am much gratified by
the spirit you've shown."

Giusippe glowed. It was not a common thing for Mr. Curtis to commend.

"I didn't know, sir, that you----"

"Knew what you were doing? Didn't any one ever tell you that I have a search-light and a telescope
in my office?" Uncle Tom laughed. "Oh, I keep track of things even if I do seem to be otherwise
occupied. So look out for yourself! Beware! My eyes may be upon you almost any time."

"I am not afraid, sir," smiled the boy.

"And you have no cause to be, either, my lad," was Uncle Tom's serious rejoinder. "Now you
and Jean fix up some date to see the works. Why not to-morrow? It is Saturday, and she will
not be at school."

"But I work Saturday mornings, Mr. Curtis."

"Can't somebody else do your work for you?"

"I have never asked that."

"Well, I will. We'll arrange it. Let us say to-morrow then. Take Jean and explain things to
her. You can do it, can't you?"

"I think so. Most of the process I understand now, and if there is anything that I need help
about I can ask."

"That's right. Just go ahead and complete the girl's education in glass-making so she can write
her Boston uncle that she is now qualified to superintend any glass works that may require
her oversight."

Jean laughed merrily.

"I am afraid I should be rather a poor superintendent, Uncle Tom," said she. "There seems to
be such a lot to know about glass."

"There is," agreed Mr. Curtis. "Sometimes I feel as if about everything in the world was made
of it. Of course you've seen the ink erasers made of a cluster of fine glass fibres. Oh, yes;
they have them. And the aigrettes made in the same way and used in ladies' bonnets. Then there
are those beautiful brocades having fine threads of spun glass woven into them in place of
gold and silver; it was a Toledo firm, by the way, that presented to the Infanta Eulalie of
Spain a dress of satin and glass woven together. To-day came an order from California for glass
to serve yet another purpose; you could never guess what. The people out there want some of
our heaviest polished plate to make the bottoms of boats."

"Of boats!"

"Boats," repeated Uncle Tom, nodding.

"But--but why make a glass-bottomed boat?"

"Well, in California, Florida, and many other warm climates boats with bottoms of glass are
much in use. Sightseers go out to where the water is clear and by looking down through the
transparent bottom of the boat they can see, as they go along, the wonderful plant and animal
life of the ocean. Such reptiles, such fish, such seaweeds as there are! I have heard that
it is as interesting as moving pictures, and quite as thrilling, too."

"I'd like to do it," said Giusippe.

"I shouldn't," declared Jean with a shudder. "I hate things that writhe, and squirm, and wriggle.
Imagine being so near those hideous creatures! Why, if I once should see them I should never
dare to go in bathing again. I'd rather not know what's in the sea."

"There is something in that, little lady," Uncle Tom answered, slipping one of his big hands
over the two tiny ones in the girl's lap. "Giusippe and I will keep the sea monsters out of
your path, then; and the land monsters, too, if we can. Now it is time you children got to
bed, for to-morrow you must make an early start. You'd better telephone your aunt or uncle
that you are going to stay here to-night, Giusippe. If you do not work to-morrow you will not
need to get to the factory until Jean and I do; it will be much simpler for you to remain here
and go down with us in the car. I'll call up your boss and explain matters. Good-night, both
of you. Now scamper! I want to read my paper."

                     *        *        *        *

The next morning the Curtis family was promptly astir, and after breakfast Uncle Tom with his
two charges rolled off to the factory in the big red limousine.

"Your superintendent says you are welcome to the morning off, Giusippe," Mr. Curtis remarked
as they sped along. "But he did have the grace to say he should miss you. Now it seems to me
that if you are to give Jean a clear idea of what we do at the works you better begin with
the sheet glass department. That will interest her, I am sure; later you can show her where
you yourself work."

The car pulled up at Mr. Curtis's office, and they all got out.

"Good-bye! Good luck to you," he called as the boy and girl started off.

Jean waved her hand.

"We will be back here and ready to go home with you, Uncle Tom, at one o'clock," she called
over her shoulder.

"We won't be late, sir."

"See that you're not. I shall be hungry and shall not want to wait. I guess you'll have an
appetite, too, by that time."

"Is sheet glass blown, Giusippe?" inquired Jean, as they went across the yard. "I hate to ask
stupid questions, but you see I do not know anything about it."

"That isn't a stupid question. Quite the contrary. Yes, sheet glass is blown. You shall see
it done, too."

"But I do not understand how they can get it flattened out, if they blow it."

"You will."

The boy led the way through a low arched door.

Before the furnaces within the great room a number of glass-blowers were at work. They stood
upon wooden stagings, each one of which was built over a well or pit in the floor, and was
just opposite an opening in the furnace.

"Each of these men has a work-hole of the furnace to himself, so that he may heat his material
any time he needs to do so. The staging gives him room to swing his heavy mass of glass as
he blows it, and the pit in the floor, which is about ten feet deep, furnishes space for the
big cylinder to run out, or grow longer, as he blows. The gathering for sheet glass is done
much as was that for the smaller pieces. The gatherer collects a lump on his pipe, cools it
a little, and collects more until he has enough. He then rests it on one of those wooden blocks
such as you see over there; the block is hollowed out so to let the blower expand the glass
to the diameter he wants it."

"But I should think the block would burn when the hot glass is forced inside it."

"It would if it were not first sprinkled with water. Sometimes hollow metal blocks are used
instead. In that case water passes through to keep them cool, and they are dusted over with
charcoal to keep them from sticking, and from scratching the glass. After a sufficiently large
mass of glass has been gathered and reheated to a workable condition the blower begins his
task. First he swings the great red-hot lump about so that it will get longer. His aim is to
make a long cylinder and into it he must blow constantly in order to keep it full of air. Watch
that man now at work. See how deft he is, and how strong. The even thickness of the glass,
and the uniformity of its size, depend entirely upon his skill. If he finds the cylinder running
out too fast, or in other words getting too long, he shifts it up over his head, always taking
care, however, to keep it upright."

Jean watched.

How rapidly the man worked with the great mass on his blow-pipe! Now he blew it far down into
the pit beneath, where it hung like a mighty, elongated soap-bubble; now he swung it to and
fro; now lifted it above his head. And all the time he was blowing into it blasts of air from
his powerful lungs.

"The cylinder doesn't seem to get any bigger round," observed Jean at last.

"No. Its diameter was fixed at the beginning by the wooden block. That settles its size once
and for all; it is the length and thickness of the cylinder which are governed by the blower.
Do you realize how strong a man has to be to wield such a weight as that lump of metal? It
is no easy matter. Luckily he can suspend it against that wooden rest if he gets too tired.
In England they use a sort of iron frame called an Iron Man to relieve the blower of the weight
of the glass and the device was also used at one time in Belgium; but the Belgian workmen gradually
did away with it."

For a long time the two children stood there fascinated by the skill of the blowers.

"Suppose we go on now and see the rest of the process," suggested Giusippe, a little unwillingly.
"I could watch these men all day, but we have much to do, and if we do not hurry we shall not
get through."

The next step in the work was opening out the cylinders, and this was done in two ways. The
end of those made of thinner glass was put into the furnace while at the same time air was
forced inside through the blow-pipe. As a result the air expanded by the heat of the fire,
and burst open the cylinder at its hottest or weakest end. By placing this opening downward
it was widened to the diameter necessary. The cylinders of thicker glass were opened by fastening
to one end a lump of hot metal, thereby weakening them at this point. When the air was forced
in by the blower it burst open the mass and the break thus made was enlarged by cutting it
round with the scissors.

"Now come on, Jean, and see them flatten it out," said Giusippe.

Upon a wooden rest or chevalet the cylinder was now laid and detached from the pipe by placing
a bit of cold steel against the part of the glass that still clung to the blow-pipe. At once
the neck of the glass, which was hot, contracted at the touch of the cold metal and broke away
from the pipe. The small end was then taken off by winding round it a thread of hot glass,
and afterward applying cold iron or steel at any point the thread had covered.

"The cylinder is now finished at top and bottom and is ready to be split up the side," said
Giusippe. "This they do with a rule and a diamond point mounted in a long handle. The diamond
point is drawn along the inside of the cylinder and opens it out flat. If there are any imperfections
in the glass the cutter plans to have them come as near the edge of this opening as possible
so there will be little waste."

Jean nodded.

"Now, as you will see, the glass is ready for the flattener. First he warms it in the flue
of his furnace and then, using his croppie or iron, he puts it on the flattening-stone; if
you look carefully you will see that the top of this stone is covered with a large sheet of
glass. In the heat of the furnace the cylinder with the split uppermost soon opens out and
falls back in a wavy mass. See?"

Jean watched intently as the great roll of glass unfolded and spread into billows. The moment
it was fairly open the flattener took his polissoir, a rod of iron with a block of wood at
one end, and began smoothing out the uneven sheet of glass into a flat surface. At times he
had to rub it with all his strength to straighten it. This done the flattening-stone was moved
on wheels to a cooler part of the furnace and the sheet of glass upon it was transferred to
a cooling-stone. When stiff enough it was taken off and placed either flat or on edge in a
rack with other sheets.

So the process went on.

Cylinder after cylinder was blown, opened up, flattened, and annealed. So quickly did the single
sheets of glass cool that it was not much more than half an hour from the time they entered
the flattening kiln before they came out thoroughly annealed. They were then carried to the
warehouse for inspection and the especially fine ones were selected to be polished into patent
glass. The sheets were rated as bests, seconds, thirds, and fourths, and their average size
was 48 x 34 or 36 inches, although the foreman said that sometimes sheets as large as 82 x
42 or 75 x 50 had been made. These, however, were exceedingly difficult to handle, as they
were in constant danger of being broken. The mass of glass was also very heavy for the blower
to wield.

"The great advantage of sheet glass over crown glass is that it can be made in large pieces.
Of course it is not as brilliant as crown, but it is much more useful," added the workman.

"What is crown glass?" whispered Jean to Giusippe.

"It is a variety of glass manufactured by another process," was the reply. "We do not make
it here. Do you remember the bull's eye glass windows we saw in England? Well, each of those
bull's eyes came from the center of a sheet of crown glass just where a lump of hot glass was
attached so the blower could whirl or spin it from the middle and make it into a flat disc.
But, as you can readily understand, a sheet of glass with this mark or defect right in the
center will never cut to advantage, and therefore only comparatively small pieces can be got
out of it; there is much waste. Yet, as the man says, it has a wonderfully brilliant surface.
Now I am not going to let you stay here any longer or we shall not have time to see the part
of the factory where I am working. I'm in the plate glass department, and I intend to drag
you off to the casting hall this very moment."

Jean laughed.

"Before you go, though, you must understand that plate glass is quite a different thing from
these others. It is not blown at all. Instead the melt is poured out on an iron table just
as molasses candy is turned out of a pan to cool. You'll see how it is done."

They crossed the yard and entered another part of the works; Giusippe gave the foreman a word
of greeting as they went in.

On each side of the great room were the annealing ovens, and down the center of the hall on
a track moved a casting table which rolled along on wheels. The pots of molten glass or metal
were first taken from the furnaces and carried on trucks to this casting table. Here they were
lifted by a crane, suspended above the table, and then tilted over, and the glass poured out.

"For all the world like a pan of fudge!" declared Jean.

Giusippe laughed.

"I guess you would find it the stickiest, heaviest fudge you ever tried to manage," said he.

The instant the mass of soft metal was on the table a roller of cast-iron was passed very swiftly
back and forth over it, spreading it to uniform thickness, and at the same time flattening it.

"The thickness of the glass is gauged by the strips of iron on which the roller moves," explained
Giusippe to Jean. "These can be adjusted to any thickness. Notice how rapidly the men have
to work. The glass must be finished while it is hot, or there will be flaws in it. It is a
rushing job, I can tell you."

"But--but you don't call this stuff plate glass, do you?" inquired the girl in dismay. "It
does not look like it--at least not like any I ever saw used as shop windows or for mirrors."

"Oh, it is not done yet. But it is what we call rough plate. That's the kind that is used where
light and not transparency is needed. You often see it in office doors or in skylights of buildings.
To get the beautiful polished plate glass that you are talking about this rough plate must
be polished over and over again. But before it can be polished it must first be annealed as
rough plate. It goes into the annealing ovens right from this table and comes out all irregular--full
of pits and imperfections. No matter how flat the casting table is, or how much care is taken,
the surface of the glass after annealing is always bad. If it is to be made into polished plate
it must be ground down first with sand and water; then ground smoother still with a coarse
kind of emery stone and water; next ground again with water and powdered emery stone. After
that comes the smoothing process done with a finer sort of emery and water. Last of all the
sheet is bedded, as we call it, and each side is polished with rouge, or red oxide, between
moving pads of felt."

"Goodness!" ejaculated Jean. "Do you mean to say they have to go through all that with every
sheet of plate glass?"

"Every sheet of polished plate," corrected Giusippe. "Rough plate does not need to be polished
or ground down much. It is made merely for use and not for beauty. Sometimes to add strength,
and help support the weight of large sheets, wire netting is embedded in them. Wired glass
like this was the invention of an American named Schuman and it is used a great deal; the wire
not only relieves the weight of the glass but serves the double purpose of holding the pieces
should any break off and start to fall. Often, too, insurance companies specify that it shall
be used as a matter of fire protection."

"But I should think if plate glass--I mean polished plate," Jean hurriedly corrected her error,
"has to be ground down so much there wouldn't be anything left of it. It must come out dreadfully
thin."

"The casters have to consider that and allow for it," answered the Italian. "They expect part
of the glass will have to be ground away, so they cast it thicker in the first place. A large,
perfect sheet of polished plate is quite an achievement. From beginning to end it requires
the greatest care, and if spoiled it is a big loss not only in actual labor but because of
the amount of material required to make it. Even at the very last it may be injured in the
warehouse either by scratching or breaking. It is there that it is cut in the size pieces desired."

"How?"

"With a rule and diamond point just such as is used for cutting sheet glass. The surface is
scratched to give the line of fracture and then it is split evenly."

"I should hate to have the responsibility of cutting or handling it when it is all done," Jean
observed with a little shiver.

"Well you might. Only men of the greatest skill and experience are allowed to touch the big,
heavy sheets. The risk is too great. They turn only the best workmen into the plate glass department."

"But you work here, don't you, Giusippe?"

"I? Oh, I--I'm just learning," was the boy's modest reply.

"You seem to have learned pretty well," said a voice at his elbow.

Turning the lad was astonished to find Mr. Curtis standing just behind him.

"I must own up to being an eavesdropper," laughed the older man. "I couldn't resist knowing
whether you were instructing Jean as she should be instructed, Giusippe. Don't worry. I have
no fault to find. I couldn't have explained it better myself. You shall have your diploma on
plate glass making any time you want it."

Then as the superintendent advanced to speak to him, Mr. Curtis added:

"You had given your pupil a good bringing up, Mr. Hines. He does you credit."

CHAPTER XI

JEAN'S TELEGRAM AND WHAT IT SAID

The winter in Pittsburgh passed rapidly. For Jean it was a happy year despite much hard work
at school, German lessons with Fräulein, and long hours of piano practising. It seemed as if
the scales and finger exercises were endless and sometimes the girl wondered which had the
more miserable fate--she who was forced to drum the same old things over and over, or poor
Uncle Tom who had to listen when she was doing it. And yet as she looked back over her busy
days she realized that she neither studied nor practised all the time. No, there was many a
good time interspersed in her routine. For example, there was the Shakespeare play at the school,
a performance of "As You Like It," in which Jean herself took the part of "Rosalind." This
was an excitement indeed! Uncle Tom became so interested that he got out his book and spent
several evenings coaching the leading lady, as he called the girl; one night he even went so
far as to impersonate "Orlando," and he and Jean gave a dress rehearsal in the library, greatly
to Giusippe's delight and amusement. This set them all to reading Shakespeare aloud, and going
to a number of presentations of the dramas then being given in the city. To the young people
all this was new and wonderful, for up to the present they had been little to the theater.

In the meantime Giusippe was also having his struggles. It was a rushing season at the factory,
there being many large orders to fill; the mill hummed night and day and in consequence the
scores of glass-makers looked happy and prosperous. No one was out of employment or on half
pay, and none of the workmen dreaded Christmas because there was nothing to put in the kiddies'
stockings.

With Christmas came Uncle Bob and oh, what a holiday there was then! Was ever a Christmas tree
so beautiful, or a Christmas dinner so delicious? Giusippe brought his aunt and uncle to the
great house, and in the evening there was a dance for Jean and some of her school friends.
Uncle Bob, who was in the gayest of spirits, danced with all the girls; introduced everybody
to everybody; and brought heaping plates of salad to the dancers. There seemed to be nothing
he could not do from putting up Christmas greens to playing the piano until the belated musicians
arrived. The party could never had been given without him, that was certain. It was a Christmas
long to be remembered!

And when he left the next morning it was with the understanding that Jean should return to
Boston the first of May. Uncle Tom looked pretty grave when he was reminded that the days of
his niece's stay with him were numbered; and it was amusing to hear him use the very arguments
that Uncle Bob had voiced when Jean had left Boston for Pittsburgh months before.

"It isn't as if the child was never coming back," he told Giusippe. "Her home is here; she
is only going to Boston for her vacation. We should be selfish indeed to grudge her a few weeks
at the seashore. Pittsburgh is rather warm in summer."

Thus Uncle Tom consoled himself, and as the days flew past tried to put out of his mind the
inevitable day of parting.

Then came May and with it a very unexpected happening. Jean's trunk was packed, and she was
all ready to leave for the East, when Uncle Tom was taken sick.

"I doubt if it is anything but overwork and fatigue," said the doctor. "Mr. Curtis has, I find,
been carrying a great deal of care this winter. It is good to do a rushing business, of course,
but when one has to rush along with it the wear and tear on the nerves is pretty severe."

"You don't think he will be ill long, do you?" questioned Jean anxiously.

"I cannot tell. Such cases are uncertain. He just needs rest--to give up work for a while and
stay at home. Recreation, diversion, amusement--that's what he wants. Read to him; motor with
him; walk with him; keep him entertained. Things like that will do far more good than medicine."

"But--but--I'm--I'm going away to-morrow for the rest of the summer," stammered Jean.

"Away? Humph! That's unfortunate."

"Why, you don't really think I am any use here, do you? Enough use to remain, I mean," the
girl inquired in surprise. "Uncle Tom doesn't--you don't mean that he needs me; that I could
do good by staying?"

A flush overspread her face. That any one should need her! And most of all such a big strong
man as Uncle Tom. The idea was unbelievable. Hitherto life had been a matter of what others
should do for her. She had been a child with no obligations save to do as she was told. Her
two uncles whom she loved so much had discussed her fate and decided between them what her
course should be. Now, all at once, there was no pilot at the wheel. The directing of the ship
fell to her guidance. In the space of those few moments, as if by a miracle, Jean Cabot ceased
to be a child and became a woman.

"Mr. Curtis is very fond of you, isn't he?" asked the physician. "He will miss you if you are
not here, I am afraid. Who else is there in the house to be a companion for him?"

"No one but Fräulein, and of course she is getting older and is not very strong."

"Unfortunate!" repeated the doctor.

"It is not at all necessary for me to go to-morrow," Jean said quickly. "I can postpone it
and stay here just as well as not, and I think it would be much better if I did." She spoke
with deepening conviction. "I'll telegraph my uncle in Boston and explain to him that I cannot
leave just now."

What a deal of dignity stole into that single word "cannot."

At last there was a duty to fulfil toward some one else--some one who really needed her. Jean
repeated the amazing fact over and over to herself. She had a place to fill. She and Uncle
Tom had reversed their obligations; he was now the weak one, she the strong.

With a happy heart the girl went back up-stairs.

Uncle Tom was lying very still in bed, his face turned away from the door; but he heard her
light step and put out his hand.

"My little girl," he whispered.

Jean slipped her soft palm into his.

"Did I wake you?"

"No, dear. I was not asleep. I cannot sleep these days. Last night I heard the clock strike
almost every hour. It has been so right along. I cannot recall when I have had a full night's
rest. No sooner do I go to bed than my mind travels like a whirlwind over everything I've done
through the day. There is no peace, no stopping it."

"We will stop it, dear. Don't worry, Uncle Tom. The doctor says you are just a little tired,
and he is going to give you some medicine that will help you to feel better. Then you are to
stay at home and rest for a while. To-morrow you shall have your breakfast in bed and later,
when it is sunny and warm, I shall take you for a nice motor ride."

"But--but you forget, girlie, that to-morrow you won't be here."

"Oh, yes I shall. I'm going to stay. There is no law against my changing my mind and not going
to Boston, is there?"

Jean smiled down at him.

"I've wired Uncle Bob that I am going to postpone my visit," she added.

A light came into the man's eyes.

"Did the doctor----?"

"No, he didn't. I decided it myself. Do you suppose for a moment I'd leave you just when you
are going to be here at home and have some time to entertain me? Indeed, no! Lately you've
been so busy that you couldn't take me anywhere. Now you are to desert the office and be under
my orders for a while. Oh, we'll do lots of nice things. We'll go off in the motor and see
all sorts of places I've wanted to see; and we'll walk; and we'll read some of those books
we have been trying to get time to read together. We shall have great fun."

Mr. Curtis looked keenly at the girl for a few seconds.

"Perhaps," he remarked at last, "it won't make much difference to Uncle Bob if you do postpone
your visit for a week or two."

"I am sure it won't."

There was a deep sigh of satisfaction from the invalid.

"I'm glad you've decided to stay, little girl. Somehow it would be about the last straw to
have you leave now. I'd miss you in any case, of course; but if I have got to be home here
and round the house it does not seem as if I could stand it to have you gone."

"I wouldn't think of going and leaving you, dear. Put your mind at rest. I intend to stay right
here until you are quite well again."

She bent down and gently kissed her uncle's forehead.

It seemed as if that kiss smoothed every wrinkle of worry from the man's brow.

Quietly Jean tiptoed across the room and drew down the shade; then she dropped into a chair
beside the bed and took up a book. For some time she sat very still, her eyes intent upon the
page. Then at last she glanced up. Uncle Tom's head had fallen back on the pillows and for
the first time in many days he slept.

                     *        *        *        *

So did Jean Cabot find her summer planned for her. Instead of joining Uncle Bob and enjoying
months of bathing and sailing on the North Shore she helped nurse Uncle Tom Curtis back to
health. For the breakdown proved to be of much longer duration than any of them had foreseen.
The exhausted system was slow in reacting and it was weeks before the turning point toward
recovery was reached. During those tedious hours of waiting Jean was the sole person who could
bring a smile to the sick man's face or rouse in him a shadow of interest in what was going
on about him. "Her price was above rubies," the doctor said. She was better than sunshine or
fresh air; she was, in fact, the only hope of bringing the invalid back to his normal self.

And when those grim days passed and Uncle Tom began to be better, how he clung to the girl--clung
to her with an affection which neither of them had felt before. It was the realization of his
dependence that made Jean send to Uncle Bob that letter, the last lines of which read:

    "I feel more strongly than I can tell you, dear Uncle Bob, that
    for the present my place is here. Uncle Tom needs me and cannot do
    without me. You have Hannah to help you keep house and you can get
    on; but he has nobody but me. When he is quite strong again I will
    come to Boston, but until I do I am sure you'll understand that
    although I cannot be with you, I love you just the same.

    "Jean."

A reply came back by wire.

"Goodness!" exclaimed Jean as she opened the long telegram. "I hope nothing is the matter.
Uncle Bob never sends telegrams. He must have been reckless to spend his money on such a long
message as this."

    "You are doing just right. Stay as long as needed, but remember
    Boston home waits whenever you wish to come. Hannah has proved
    inadequate housekeeper. Have new one. Miss Cartright and I were
    married in New York to-day.

    "Uncle Bob."

Jean's reading stopped with a jerk. She was speechless. So great was her joy, her surprise,
that not a word would come to her tongue.

Then Uncle Tom remarked dryly:

"I guess your Uncle Bob was a bit reckless about the time he sent that wire. The only wonder
is the telegram wasn't twice as long."

Giusippe was the next to find his voice.

"Well!" he ejaculated. "And we never even dreamed it! At last, Jean, you've got your wish.
Your good fairy has given you an aunt!"

"And such an aunt!" Jean added.

CHAPTER XII

JEAN AND GIUSIPPE EACH FIND A NICHE IN LIFE

During Uncle Tom's illness and slow recovery Giusippe became the messenger between Mr. Curtis's
residence and his office. It was, however, weeks before there was any link connecting the two.
But as health returned there came to the invalid a gradual revival of interest in affairs at
the glass works. Nevertheless the doctor was a cautious man and at first permitted only the
slightest allusions to be made to business. Later, as strength increased, Mr. Curtis was allowed
to look over at home mail, papers, and specifications and put his signature to a few important
documents, and since Giusippe was almost constantly at the house what was more natural than
that he should become the go-between? Mr. Curtis dropped into explaining to the boy from time
to time many confidential matters and directing him as to what he wished done regarding them.
The young Italian, as his employer soon found, was quick to grasp a situation and could be
relied upon to fulfil instructions to the letter and without blundering. Such a person was
of inestimable value during those days of convalescence.

So it came about that Giusippe spent less and less of his time in his own department in the
glass works and more and more in Mr. Curtis's private office. Before long, boy though he was,
he had quite a complete comprehension of the older man's affairs and proved himself most useful
to the head of the firm who was fighting his way back to health. It was so easy to say:

"Regarding this letter, I wish, Giusippe, you would see that such and such a reply is sent.
Look it over yourself before it goes out to be sure that the stenographer has correctly caught
my idea."

Or:

"Go and tell Levin of the sheet glass department that I want these orders filled before any
others are shipped. Attend to it yourself, and make certain he clearly understands."

To drop any portion of the detail of his mighty business upon younger shoulders, or in fact
upon any shoulders at all was a thing which, but a short time before, Mr. Curtis would have
considered impossible. But now, to his surprise, he found himself actually doing it to an amazing
extent, and discovered that no calamity resulted in consequence. On the contrary it was a positive
relief to have a bright, strong, eager boy lift a part of the burden which had become so heavy
for the older man to bear alone. For Giusippe possessed that rare gift seldom found in the
young and often lacking, even, in elder persons--he could hold his tongue. He never prattled
of Mr. Curtis's affairs; never boasted of his knowledge of the innermost workings of the firm.
He did as he was told, gave his opinion when asked, and kept whatever information was doled
out to him entirely to himself.

Hence it followed naturally that when Uncle Tom began going to the works for a few hours each
day he took Giusippe with him, and when he came home left the boy to see carried out the instructions
he gave. Slowly the office force began to defer to the youthful Italian.

"Did Mr. Curtis say anything about this matter or that?"

"Was such and such a price the one Mr. Curtis wished quoted?"

Having discussed many of these very matters with his employer Giusippe was usually ready with
an answer or he could get one. For it was he alone who was sure to receive a telephone reply
from the Curtis residence; he was the only one who knew at just what time of day Mr. Curtis
could be reached, and whether he was well enough that morning to be disturbed. Men desiring
interviews with the head of the firm soon found themselves inquiring for Mr. Cicone and asking
him if possible to arrange things so they could have a few words with Mr. Curtis. Giusippe
was the recognized buffer, the go-between who guarded the capitalist from annoyance and intrusion
of every sort.

"You talk with this fellow, Giusippe," Mr. Curtis would often say. "Tell him--well, you know--get
him out of the office. You can do it politely. Tell him I'll give him a hundred dollars toward
his hospital, but keep him out of my way."

Then Giusippe would laugh.

He had begun to understand that the life of a rich man was no easy one.

Scores of persons came to see Mr. Curtis: persons applying for business positions; persons
begging money for various good causes; customers; salesmen; men wanting newspaper interviews.
From morning until night the throng filed in and out of the office. Up to the present Mr. Curtis
had been content to remain in the security of his inner domain and rely on his stenographer
to fill many of the gaps. But with illness a change had come and it was to Giusippe that most
of these duties fell.

And yet, strangely enough, nothing had been further from the older man's original plan than
to transform this foreign-born lad into his private secretary. But so it came about.

"I seem to just need you all the time, Giusippe," he declared one day. "When you leave the
house and return to your uncle's I am always discovering something I meant to ask you and having
to send the car after you; and the moment you go back to your own job in the casting department,
without fail some matter comes up and you have to be telephoned for. It is no use to try to
get on without you. I need you all the time. I need you here at home and I need you at the office."

Giusippe smiled.

"I'm glad if I can be of help to you, sir."

"You are of help; you are more than that--you are---- See here, what do you say to throwing
up your position at the works and coming into my private office as my--well, as my general
utility man? I've never had a secretary--I've never wanted one; and if I had I never before
have seen the chap I'd trust with the job. But you are different. You're one of the family,
to begin with. Moreover, you've proved that you can be trusted, and that you have some common
sense. What would you take to move into your room up-stairs for good and all, and live here
where I can get hold of you when I want you? Are you so wedded to your aunt and uncle or to
your work in the factory that you would be unwilling to make the change?"

A flush suffused the boy's face.

"If you really think that I could do for you what you want done, Mr. Curtis----"

"I don't think, I know!"

"Then I'd like to come, sir."

"That's right! It will be a weight off my mind. The doctor says that for some months I must
still go easy. You can save both my time and my strength. I like you and I believe you like
me; that is half the battle in working with any one. We will send to your uncle's for your
trunk and whatever else you have."

"There isn't much else but some books," answered Giusippe. "I have been buying a few from time
to time as I could afford them."

"Box them up and send them over. Send everything. This is to be your future home, you understand.
And by the by, we'll give you that other room adjoining your bedroom. You will need a bit more
space. I will have a desk and some book-shelves put in there."

"Thank you, sir."

"We'll call that settled, then. It is going to be very helpful to have you right here on the
spot. It is the person who aims to be of service who is really valuable in the world. Look
at Jean. In her way she has been doing the same thing that you have. When she found I was in
a hole and needed her she gave up her vacation in the East without a murmur. I sha'n't forget
it, either. Come in, missy. I'm talking about you."

Jean, who had paused on the threshold of the room, entered smiling.

"You caught me at just the right moment, little lady. I was slandering you," went on Mr. Curtis.
"I was saying to Giusippe that I never again can get on without you two young persons. Why,
this old house was quiet as the grave before you came into it. I cannot imagine how I ever
existed here alone all these years. The piano wasn't opened from one end of the year to the
other, and when I unlocked the door and came in there wasn't a single sound anywhere. As I
look back on it I guess I spent about all my time at the Club. But since you came it has been
different. I've liked it a whole lot better, too. Because they are a character, and were withal hard uncommonly to please.
They think the Arabs, guild and abhor a Turks, have the Asiatics
under 1764 Franks, and despise all other horror of them arrive you
tried to name of Who (Indians).


Then I'm going to ask her to teach me to market and to keep house. If you are to make Giusippe
your secretary it is only fair that you should give me a position, too. I'll be your housekeeper.
You'll see what a good one I shall make after I've learned how. I should love to do it. A girl--a
really, truly girl, Uncle Tom, can't help wanting to keep house for somebody."

"No more she can, dear, and she ought to want to, too. It is her work in the world to be a
homemaker--the one who touches with comfort and with beauty the lives of those about her. He is
not silent-naturedly this mr the accusation underneath himself.

Familiarization must have been carry himself that he was told. "i think itself, Fritz," he was,
them got then, "it should have been same from what are we have been."

"No," answered Mr. Curtis, "and it is fortunate he has found some one if you are to be my housekeeper.
If he makes any trouble we'll just remind him that it was only your summers that you were to
spend with him. Your winters belong to me."

"I don't believe he will quarrel about it," was Jean's answer. "He won't need me now, and he
will understand that you do."

"I sure do," replied Uncle Tom, drawing the girl to his side. "I need both of you--my boy and
my girl."

