In the year after he was Prætor--in the first of the two years between his Prætorship and Consulship,
B.C. 65--he made a speech in defence of one Caius Cornelius, as to which we hear that the pleadings
in the case occupied four days. This, with our interminable "causes célèbres," does not seem
much to us, but Cicero's own speech was so long that in publishing it he divided it into two
parts. This Cornelius had been Tribune in the year but one before, and was accused of having
misused his power when in office. He had incurred the enmity of the aristocracy by attempts
made on the popular side to restrain the Senate; especially by the stringency of a law proposed
for stopping bribery at elections. Cicero's speeches are not extant. We have only some hardly
intelligible fragments of them, which were preserved by Asconius,[145] a commentator on certain
of Cicero's orations; but there is ground for supposing that these Cornelian orations were
at the time matter of as great moment as those spoken against Verres, or almost as those spoken
against Catiline. Cicero defended Cornelius, who was attacked by the Senate--by the rich men
who desired office and the government of provinces. The law proposed for the restriction of
bribery at elections no doubt attempted to do more by the severity of its punishment than can
be achieved by such means: it was mitigated, but was still admitted by Cicero to be too rigorous.
The rancor of the Senate against Cornelius seems to have been due to this attempt; but the
illegality with which he was charged, and for which he was tried, had reference to another
law suggested by him--for restoring to the people the right of pardon which had been usurped
by the Senate. Caius Cornelius seems to have been a man honest and eager in his purpose to
save the Republic from the greed of the oligarchs, but--as had been the Gracchi--ready in his
eagerness to push his own authority too far in his attempt to restrain that of the Senate.
A second Tribune, in the interest of the Senate, attempted to exercise an authority which undoubtedly
belonged to him, by inhibiting the publication or reading of the proposed law. The person whose
duty it was to read it was stopped; then Cornelius pushed aside the inferior officer, and read
it himself. There was much violence, and the men who brought the accusation about Cornelius--two
brothers named Cominii--had to hide themselves, and saved their lives by escaping over the
roofs of the houses.

This took place when Cicero was standing for the Prætorship, and the confusion consequent upon
it was so great that it was for awhile impossible to carry on the election. In the year after
his Prætorship Cornelius was put upon his trial, and the two speeches were made.

The matter seems to have been one of vital interest in Rome. The contest on the part of the
Senate was for all that made public life dear to such a body. Not to bribe--not to be able
to lay out money in order that money might be returned ten-fold, a hundred-fold--would be to
them to cease to be aristocrats. The struggles made by the Gracchi, by Livius Drusus, by others
whose names would only encumber us here, by this Cornelius, were the expiring efforts of those
who really desired an honest Republic. Such were the struggles made by Cicero himself; though
there was present always to him an idea, with which, in truth, neither the demagogues nor the
aristocrats sympathized, that the reform could be effected, not by depriving the Senate of
its power, but by teaching the Senate to use it honestly. We can sympathize with the idea,
but we are driven to acknowledge that it was futile.

Though we know that this was so, the fragments of the speeches, though they have been made
intelligible to us by the "argument" or story of them prefixed by Asconius in his notes, cannot
be of interest to readers. They were extant in the time of Quintilian, who speaks of them with
the highest praise.[146] Cicero himself selects certain passages out of these speeches as examples
of eloquence or rhythm,[147] thus showing the labor with which he composed them, polishing
them by the exercise of his ear as well as by that of his intellect. We know from Asconius
that this trial was regarded at the time as one of vital interest.

We have two letters from Cicero written in the year after his Prætorship, both to Atticus,
the first of which tells us of his probable competition for the Consulship; the second informs
his friend that a son is born to him--he being then forty-two years old--and that he is thinking
to undertake the defence of Catiline, who was to be accused of peculation as Proprætor in Africa.
"Should he be acquitted," says Cicero, "I should hope to have him on my side in the matter
of my canvass. If he should be convicted, I shall be able to bear that too." There were to
be six or seven candidates, of whom two, of course, would be chosen. It would be much to Cicero
"to run," as our phrase goes, with the one who among his competitors would be the most likely
to succeed. Catiline, in spite of his then notorious character--in the teeth of the evils of
his government in Africa--was, from his birth, his connections, and from his ability, supposed
to have the best chance. It was open to Cicero to defend Catiline as he had defended Fonteius,
and we know from his own words that he thought of doing so. But he did not; nor did Cicero
join himself with Catiline in the canvassing. It is probable that the nature of Catiline's
character and intentions were now becoming clearer from day to day. Catiline was tried and
acquitted, having, it is said, bribed the judges.

CHAPTER VIII.

CICERO AS CONSUL.

Hitherto everything had succeeded with Cicero. His fortune and his fame had gone hand-in-hand.
The good-will of the citizens had been accorded to him on all possible occasions. He had risen
surely, if not quickly, to the top of his profession, and had so placed himself there as to
have torn the wreath from the brow of his predecessor and rival, Hortensius. On no memorable
occasion had he been beaten. If now and then he had failed to win a cause in which he was interested,
it was as to some matter in which, as he had said to Atticus in speaking of his contemplated
defence of Catiline, he was not called on to break his heart if he were beaten. We may imagine
that his life had been as happy up to this point as a man's life may be. He had married well.
Children had been born to him, who were the source of infinite delight. He had provided himself
with houses, marbles, books, and all the intellectual luxuries which well-used wealth could
produce. Friends were thick around him. His industry, his ability, and his honesty were acknowledged.
The citizens had given him all that it was in their power to give. Now at the earliest possible
day, with circumstances of much more than usual honor, he was put in the highest place which
his country had to offer, and knew himself to be the one man in whom his country at this moment
trusted. Then came the one twelve-month, the apex of his fortunes; and after that, for the
twenty years that followed, there fell upon him one misery after another--one trouble on the
head of another trouble--so cruelly that the reader, knowing the manner of the Romans, almost
wonders that he condescended to live.

[Sidenote: B.C. 64, ætat. 43.]

He was chosen Consul, we are told, not by the votes but by the unanimous acclamation of the
citizens. What was the exact manner of doing this we can hardly now understand. The Consuls
were elected by ballot, wooden tickets having been distributed to the people for the purpose;
but Cicero tells us that no voting tickets were used in his case, but that he was elected by
the combined voice of the whole people.[148]

He had stood with six competitors. Of these it is only necessary to mention two, as by them
only was Cicero's life affected, and as out of the six, only they seem to have come prominently
forward during the canvassing. These were Catiline the conspirator, as we shall have to call
him in dealing with his name in the next chapter, and Caius Antonius, one of the sons of Marc
Antony, the great orator of the preceding age, and uncle of the Marc Antony with whom we are
all so well acquainted, and with whom we shall have so much to do before we get to the end
of this work. Cicero was so easily the first that it may be said of him that he walked over
the course. Whether this was achieved by the Machiavellian arts which his brother Quintus taught
in his treatise De Petitione Consulatus, or was attributable to his general popularity, may
be a matter of doubt. As far as we can judge from the signs which remain to us of the public
feeling of the period, it seems that he was at this time regarded with singular affection by
his countrymen. He had robbed none, and had been cruel to no one. He had already abandoned
the profit of provincial government--to which he was by custom entitled after the lapse of
his year's duty as Prætor--in order that he might remain in Rome among the people. Though one
of the Senate himself--and full of the glory of the Senate, as he had declared plainly enough
in that passage from one of the Verrine orations which I have quoted--he had generally pleaded
on the popular side. Such was his cleverness, that even when on the unpopular side--as he may
be supposed to have been when defending Fonteius--he had given a popular aspect to the cause
in hand. We cannot doubt, judging from the loud expression of the people's joy at his election,
that he had made himself beloved But, nevertheless, he omitted none of those cares which it
was expected that a candidate should take. He made his electioneering speech "in toga candida"--in
a white robe, as candidates did, and were thence so called. It has not come down to us, nor
do we regret it, judging from the extracts which have been collected from the notes which Asconius
wrote upon it. It was full of personal abuse of Antony and Catiline, his competitors. Such
was the practice of Rome at this time, as it was also with us not very long since. We shall
have more than enough of such eloquence before we have done our task. When we come to the language
in which Cicero spoke of Clodius, his enemy, of Piso and Gabinius, the Consuls who allowed
him to be banished, and of Marc Antony, his last great opponent--the nephew of the man who
was now his colleague--we shall have very much of it. It must again be pleaded that the foul
abuse which fell from other lips has not been preserved and that Cicero, therefore, must not
be supposed to have been more foul mouthed than his rivals. We can easily imagine that he was
more bitter than others, because he had more power to throw into his words the meaning which
he intended them to convey.

Antony was chosen as Cicero's colleague. It seems, from such evidence as we are able to get
on the subject, that Cicero trusted Antony no better than he did Catiline, but, appreciating
the wisdom of the maxim, "divide et impera"--separate your enemies and you will get the better
of them, which was no doubt known as well then as now--he soon determined to use Antony as
his ally against Catiline, who was presumed to reckon Antony among his fellow-conspirators.
Sallust puts into the mouth of Catiline a declaration to this effect,[149] and Cicero did use
Antony for the purpose. The story of Catiline's conspiracy is so essentially the story of Cicero's
Consulship, that I may be justified in hurrying over the other events of his year's rule; but
still there is something that must be told. Though Catiline's conduct was under his eye during
the whole year, it was not till October that the affairs in which we shall have to interest
ourselves commenced.

Of what may have been the nature of the administrative work done by the great Roman officers
of State we know very little; perhaps I might better say that we know nothing. Men, in their
own diaries, when they keep them, or even in their private letters, are seldom apt to say much
of those daily doings which are matter of routine to themselves, and are by them supposed to
be as little interesting to others. A Prime-minister with us, were he as prone to reveal himself
in correspondence as was Cicero with his friend Atticus, would hardly say when he went to the
Treasury Chambers or what he did when he got there. We may imagine that to a Cabinet Minister
even a Cabinet Council would, after many sittings, become a matter of course. A leading barrister
would hardly leave behind him a record of his work in chambers. It has thus come to pass that,
though we can picture to ourselves a Cicero before the judges, or addressing the people from
the rostra, or uttering his opinion in the Senate, we know nothing of him as he sat in his
office and did his consular work. We cannot but suppose that there must have been an office
with many clerks. There must have been heavy daily work. The whole operation of government
was under the Consul's charge, and to Cicero, with a Catiline on his hands, this must have
been more than usually heavy. How he did it, with what assistance, sitting at what writing-table,
dressed in what robes, with what surroundings of archives and red tape, I cannot make manifest
to myself. I can imagine that there must have been much of dignity, as there was with all leading
Romans, but beyond that I cannot advance even in fancying what was the official life of a Consul.

In the old days the Consul used, as a matter of course, to go out and do the fighting. When
there was an enemy here, or an enemy there, the Consul was bound to hurry off with his army,
north or south, to different parts of Italy. But gradually this system became impracticable.
Distances became too great, as the Empire extended itself beyond the bounds of Italy, to admit
of the absence of the Consuls. Wars prolonged themselves through many campaigns, as notably
did that which was soon to take place in Gaul under Cæsar. The Consuls remained at home, and
Generals were sent out with proconsular authority. This had become so certainly the case, that
Cicero on becoming Consul had no fear of being called on to fight the enemies of his country.
There was much fighting then in course of being done by Pompey in the East; but this would
give but little trouble to the great officers at home, unless it might be in sending out necessary
supplies.

The Consul's work, however, was severe enough. We find from his own words, in a letter to Atticus
written in the year but one after his Consulship, 61 B.C., that as Consul he made twelve public
addresses. Each of them must have been a work of labor, requiring a full mastery over the subject
in hand, and an arrangement of words very different in their polished perfection from the generality
of parliamentary speeches to which we are accustomed. The getting up of his cases must have
taken great time. Letters went slowly and at a heavy cost. Writing must have been tedious when
that most common was done with a metal point on soft wax. An advocate who was earnest in a
case had to do much for himself. We have heard how Cicero made his way over to Sicily, creeping
in a little boat through the dangers prepared for him, in order that he might get up the evidence
against Verres. In defending Aulus Cluentius when he was Prætor, Cicero must have found the
work to have been immense. In preparing the attack upon Catiline it seems that every witness
was brought to himself. There were four Catiline speeches made in the year of his Consulship,
but in the same year many others were delivered by him. He mentions, as we shall see just now,
twelve various speeches made in the year of his Consulship.

I imagine that the words spoken can in no case have been identical with those which have come
to us--which were, as we may say, prepared for the press by Tiro, his slave and secretary.
We have evidence as to some of them, especially as to the second Catiline oration, that time
did not admit of its being written and learned by heart after the occurrence of the circumstances
to which it alludes. It needs must have been extemporary, with such mental preparation as one
night may have sufficed to give him. How the words may have been taken down in such a case
we do not quite know; but we are aware that short-hand writers were employed, though there
can hardly have been a science of stenography perfected as is that with us.[150] The words
which we read were probably much polished before they were published, but how far this was
done we do not know. What we do know is that the words which he spoke moved, convinced, and
charmed those who heard them, as do the words we read move, convince and charm us. Of these
twelve consular speeches Cicero gives a special account to his friend. "I will send you," he
says, "the speechlings[151] which you require, as well as some others, seeing that those which
I have written out at the request of a few young men please you also. It was an advantage to
me here to follow the example of that fellow-citizen of yours in those orations which he called
his Philippics. In these he brightened himself up, and discarded his 'nisi prius' way of speaking,
so that he might achieve something more dignified, something more statesman-like. So I have
done with these speeches of mine which may be called 'consulares,'" as having been made not
only in his consular year but also with something of consular dignity. "Of these, one, on the
new land laws proposed, was spoken in the Senate on the kalends of January. The second, on
the same subject, to the people. The third was respecting Otho's law.[152] The fourth was in
defence of Rabirius.[153] The fifth was in reference to the children of those who had lost
their property and their rank under Sulla's proscription.[154] The sixth was an address to
the people, and explained why I renounced my provincial government.[155] The seventh drove
Catiline out of the city. The eighth was addressed to the people the day after Catiline fled.
The ninth was again spoken to the people, on the day on which the Allobroges gave their evidence.
Then, again, the tenth was addressed to the Senate on the fifth of December"--also respecting
Catiline. "There are also two short supplementary speeches on the Agrarian war. You shall have
the whole body of them. As what I write and what I do are equally interesting to you, you will
gather from the same documents all my doings and all my sayings."

