The doctor soon had his sick removed to the Soldiers' Retreat, a place fitted up by the noble-hearted
people of Philadelphia for the entertainment of soldiers passing through their city. The upper
part of the building was arranged with exquisite taste and order for a hospital. Here were
many sick men left by the various regiments which had passed through the city. Our sick boys
were placed in beds, with expressions of gratitude that, notwithstanding their illness, their
lot had fallen in pleasant places.

Presently the men were marched into the long saloon, where all took their places at the well
spread tables. The repast being over, Colonel McKean called upon the men for three cheers for
the Philadelphians; remarking that there need be no fear of raising the roof, for even should
such an accident occur he doubted not these generous people would willingly replace it. Then
came the cheers; and such cheers! only to be surpassed by the three more and then three more
that followed.

The long years of our campaignings never diminished the lively feelings of gratitude we experienced
that morning, and to this day our veterans never speak of Philadelphia but with pleasing recollections
of the friendly reception given them by the goodly inhabitants of the Quaker city.

The sun was up when we resumed our journey, and again we were met with surprises. All along
the track of the railroad, men, women and children, filling the windows of the houses and thronging
the wayside, cheered us on our way, shouting and waving flags and handkerchiefs. Children in
the arms of their nurses waved little flags from the windows in great glee, while gray haired
old men in piping tones cried "God bless our soldiers." This unlooked for, and to us surprising
ovation continued until we had passed the limits of the city, and indeed did not cease till
we had left the station many miles behind. In the train, the men kept up a continuous cheering;
tears stood in the eyes of many, and the most enthusiastic expressions passed from lip to lip.

The experience of our regiment was only that of others who passed through this noble city,
and often during our long campaigns, the soldiers of different regiments would gather round
their camp fires, and relate to each other the kindnesses received by them in the City of Brotherly
Love.

We were cordially welcomed in Delaware, the people waving banners and handkerchiefs, and when
those were not at hand, newspapers or even articles from the clothes lines answered to show
their good will; and the negroes in the fields swung their hats and their hoes with great spirit.

We reached Baltimore in the evening, where we were kindly received, furnished with supper and
sent on our way. After many delays we reached Washington at four o'clock Sunday morning, and
were assigned to temporary quarters near the station. Who would have suspected that it was
the Sabbath? Now we began to see something of the circumstance of war. Horsemen were galloping
in every direction; long trains of army wagons rattled over the pavements at every turn of
the eye; squads of soldiers marched here and there; all was hurry, bustle and confusion.

It was night when we reached the ground for our encampment on Meridian Hill. The men had suffered
much from cold, and what at that time was hardship. Not less than a hundred of them were sick.
It was not long before tents were up, and for the first time the regiment was under canvas.

Our camp was pleasantly located, commanding a fine view of Washington, the Potomac, Alexandria
and other points of interest. We were surrounded by the camps of other regiments, some arriving
and some departing almost daily. We had not been two days here when we began to get a taste
of camp rumors. One rumor declared that we were to have barracks erected, and we were to go
into winter quarters, while another assured us that we were to have an immediate taste of actual
warfare. These proved quite as reliable as the thousands of rumors which during all our years
of service were afloat throughout the army, and acquired the expressive appellation of "Camp
Yarns."

We encamped on Meridian Hill December 1st, 1861, with 960 men.

Meridian Hill is the most delightful locality in the vicinity of Washington. The plain on which
the city stands, extends northward from the Potomac about two miles where it is abruptly terminated
by a line of hills. From the summit of these hills stretches back another plain, at an elevation
of one or two hundred feet above the first. Along the margin of these eminences were some fine
old suburban mansions. On our right towards Georgetown, was Kalorama, a charming spot, once
the residence of Joel Barlow, the author of the famous poems "Hasty Pudding" and "The Columbiad."
Now the building was converted by the government into a hospital. In close neighborhood to
us was Columbia College, also used as a hospital, and to the east was the fine mansion of Colonel
Stone, and other superb places, all of which, like Kalorama and the college, were full of sick men.

Meridian Hill was in the center of this line of once beautiful country residences, directly
north of the President's house. It had been the residence of Commodore Porter, and the house
still bore the name of "the Porter Mansion." The grounds had been elegantly laid out with box
and juniper, while the rich groves of oak and chestnut surrounding lent additional charms to
the locality. The hill was dotted with the white tents of a dozen regiments, but none were
so pleasantly located as our own, under the shadow of those grand old trees.

The mansion itself became our hospital, and for a time also served as our head-quarters. From
its broad piazza we could look upon the busy scenes of the city, and watch the vessels passing
up and down upon the river. A week had passed before we were fairly established in our quarters,
but we rapidly learned the mysteries of the soldier's life.

The weather was delightful; more like September than what we were accustomed to experience
in December. Although heavy mists hung over us until nine or ten o'clock in the morning, they
were dispelled by the warm sunshine, and then all was bright as midsummer. This lovely weather
continued until about the first of January.

The country in rear of our encampment was charming. Fine groves, traversed by streams of pure,
sweet water, and fields surrounded by hedges, stretched far to the northward. The dark green
leaves of the magnolia were to be seen here and there among trees of larger growth, and the
shining, ever-green laurel forming a dense undergrowth, gave the woods a lively and spring-like
appearance. On the open plain might any day be seen a regiment of Lancers, wheeling and charging
in their brilliant evolutions, their long lances with bright red pennons adding greatly to
the beauty of the display, and, as we at that time vainly believed, to the efficacy of the troop.

The first Sunday came, and we had religious services. The regiment was formed in front of the
mansion, every man being called out, unless on duty or excused on account of illness. This
became an established rule with us for all time; every man was required to attend divine service
unless especially excused. Chaplain Tully and the members of the staff occupied the piazza.
The chaplain offered a prayer for the loved ones at home, and then we all sung "Coronation,"
and after the sermon, we sung "Cambridge" and "Old Hundred." The men seemed deeply affected
by the simple service, and many a quivering lip betrayed the emotions of the heart.

Drills became the order of the day. Every morning the hill rang from one end to the other with
the sharp commands of the company officers to "Order arms!" "Shoulder arms!" as the men exercised
by squads. Besides the regular drill in the manual of arms, some of the companies delighted
in that system of military gymnastics called the bayonet exercise. In the afternoon Colonel
McKean usually trained the regiment in the more difficult exercises of the battalion drill.

But we began to feel the scourge of new regiments. Disease became almost universal. We had
but a single medical officer and he was tasked beyond his strength. One hundred and fifty or
two hundred men were prescribed for every morning, aside from those so ill as to be in the
hospital.

The large parlors of the old mansion were neatly fitted up for our hospital, for which they
were admirably adapted. The two principal wards were the large front parlors, which communicated
by folding doors; the ceilings were high, and the large open fire places in either apartment
served the double purpose of supplying heat and ventilation, so that while about fifty beds
were always occupied, the air was kept fresh and pure. Typhoid fevers, typhoid pneumonias,
diphtheria, and remittent fevers were prevalent, while now and then the malaria manifested
itself in the form of the terrible spotted fever. Besides, as usually occurs when the last
named disease prevails in camps, some died suddenly from unknown causes.

By the tenth of the month the majority of the men were unfit for duty. In one company the three
commissioned officers were in the hospital, and but twelve men could be mustered for evening
parade. The labors of the medical officer who undertakes single-handed to minister to the wants
of a regiment of recruits can only be known to those who have tried it. Our doctor was as much
worn out by the perplexities of organizing his department as by the actual attendance on the
sick. New demands came almost every hour of the day and night, and it was only when the violence
of disease had subsided, and another officer was added to the medical staff, that our weary
son of Galen found a degree of respite.

We were in the command of General Silas Casey, a noble specimen of a man and a soldier. His
manly dignity and kindly bearing impressed all with profound respect for him, and although
we were but a few weeks in his command we never ceased to remember him with pleasure. The provisional
brigade and division to which we were attached was frequently reviewed and drilled by the general,
and made a fine appearance.

Thus the time passed until the opening of the New Year. Our men, like most fresh soldiers,
were anxious for a fight, and were heartily tired of what they considered inglorious inactivity.
Many of them expressed great fears that they would be obliged to return home without ever hearing
the sound of battle. How greatly they were mistaken we shall see as we trace the bloody campaigns
of more than three years of hard fighting.

Our friends at home were not unmindful of us. Boxes of clothing and other comforts for the
sick were sent in goodly numbers; so our sick were well supplied with bedding and changes of
clothing, as well as jellies and other luxuries. Our friend, McMicheal, of Congress Hall, Saratoga,
thinking we could better celebrate the New Year with a good dinner, sent us one worthy of his
fame as a landlord. Could Mack have heard the cheers of the boys that made the ground tremble
as the four hundred pounds of cooked chickens and turkeys were distributed among them, his
glory as a caterer would have been complete. With the New Year came stormy weather; rain was
the rule, sunshine the exception. The mud became almost unfathomable and it was not uncommon
to see the six mules attached to an army wagon tugging and striving with all their power to
drag the empty wagon out of a mud hole. Boys who had plied the trade of bootblack gave up their
profession and with pail and sponge in hand called to the passer by, "Wash your boots, sir?"
During the lovely month of December we had been impatient for action; but now the oft repeated
question, "Why don't the Army of the Potomac move?" became ludicrous to our ears.

Thus passed another month in drills and camp duties. Some recruits came to us, while many of
the men who came out at first were found unfit for field duty and were discharged.

Distrust arose among officers and enlisted men of our army about the capital, in regard to
the manner in which the army was managed. A wilderness of men surrounded Washington, and yet
we were blockaded by the rebels on all sides except one.

Government was paying enormous prices for fuel consumed by the army, because the Potomac was
closed, and all wood had to be brought by rail from the sparsely wooded districts of Maryland.
Provisions sold at fabulous prices, and Washington was in fact a beleaguered city. Some rays
of light from the west penetrated the thick darkness; but it cannot be concealed that while
the Grand Army stationed about the capital panted for action and longed for the glory of the
battle-field, a gloom possessed the spirits of the men, and a feeling, that all this splendid
material was destined to a "masterly inactivity," prevailed. Our hopes were newly kindled when
the affairs of the War Department passed into the hands of a live man, and when Mr. Stanton's
practical energy began to be manifested both in the department and in the field. We heard from
Burnside; first sad news, and then of success; and our hearts burned to be with him. Fort Donelson
followed Roanoke; and Price's army was routed in Missouri. We envied the men who had been our
nearest neighbors, but who had followed Burnside to the South. Glorious fellows! What cared
they now for the fury of the waves or the hardships of short rations? We were afraid of being
left as idle spectators of great things in which we should not be allowed to participate.

On the 15th of February came an order for us to move in a few days, and join Smith's division.
This division lay upon the other side of the river, and although we had been anxious to move
we did not wish to get permanently fixed in the mud by moving there. We knew little of General
Smith or his division, only that the general had been trying very hard for some time past to
get the regiment, and we had little hopes of good from the new arrangement. How little did
we then suppose that the cross of that old division would be one of the proudest badges of
honor that men could wear!

Sunday night came, and the order to move at once, came also. What a scene of confusion! We
had never broken up camp before, and the excitement ran high. The pounding and tearing of boards,
the shouting of men and braying of mules, combined in a grand uproar. Bonfires blazed from
every part of the camp, and the whole night was spent in tearing down quarters and loading
the stuff into army wagons as they presented themselves in great numbers. It was a rare sight.
The camp glowing with a hundred fires, and the men and teams moving about among them like spectres.
Morning came, and the teams were loaded, and the men ready to march. The teams drove out and
formed a line reaching down 14th street from our camp nearly to the White House! One hundred
and five six-mule teams constituted the train for our regimental baggage; and so much dissatisfaction
prevailed among certain company officers that we were allowed twenty-five more teams next day!
Rain had fallen nearly all night, and the prospect looked dreary. As the day advanced the rain
came faster and faster, until it fairly poured. The men waded through mortar nearly to their knees.

It was three o'clock in the afternoon when we reached Smith's division and the ground on which
we were to make our camp. The prospect was not cheering, and as two or three of our staff officers
rode upon the ground, the place seemed forbidding enough. It had been recently the location
of a thicket of scrub pines, but the trees had been cut down for fuel, and the stumps and brush
remained, so that the mounted officers found much difficulty in reining their horses into the
midst. Snow covered the ground to the depth of several inches. Here our men, tired and wet,
cold and hungry, were to pitch their tents, cook their suppers, and make their beds.

The men fell to work heartily, and by dark they had cleared off the snow and brush enough to
make room for their tents, and many cook fires blazed over the camp.

The regiments of the division showed us much hospitality, and a very pleasant acquaintance
commenced on that day, which was destined to become earnest friendship. The next day was spent
in putting the camp in order. As rain continued to fall, the mud in the company streets became
knee-deep. Our sick, those unable to walk, had been left in our old hospital with a sufficient
number of faithful nurses, under charge of the surgeon of one of the regiments that remained.

Let us for a moment glance at the composition of the division of which we now formed a part.
We were assigned to the Third brigade. It comprised, beside our own, the Thirty-third New York,
Colonel Taylor, a regiment whose gallantry at Yorktown, Williamsburgh and Fredericksburgh fully
established its reputation as one of the best fighting regiments in the army. The Forty-ninth
New York, Colonel Bidwell, a noble regiment with a noble commander, a regiment which could
always be counted on to do all that men could do; the Seventh Maine, Colonel Mason, whose men
were patterned after the pines of their own forests, tall, straight and powerful fellows, who
never forgot their proclivities for hunting, and who were never so happy as when they could
pick off a few rebel pickets with their rifles. The brigade was commanded by General Davidson,
who afterwards made himself exceedingly disagreeable to the rebels, and famous at the north
by his daring cavalry raids in the west. The first brigade included the Forty-third New York,
Colonel Vinton; the Forty-ninth Pennsylvania, Colonel Irwin; the Sixth Maine, Colonel Knowles;
and the Fifth Wisconsin, Colonel Cobb; all of them excellent regiments, under command of General
Hancock, who has since placed his name high on the roll of fame as the commander of the old
Second corps.

The Second brigade was composed entirely of Vermont troops, including the Second, Third, Fourth,
Fifth and Sixth Vermont regiments, commanded respectively by Colonels Henry Whiting, B. N.
Hyde, E. H. Stoughton, L. A. Grant and N. M. Lord, and known as the "Vermont Brigade," and
nobly did they sustain the traditional reputation of the Green Mountain Boys, as stern patriots
and hard fighters. They were commanded by General Brooks, who afterward commanded the Tenth corps.

General William F. Smith, or, as he was familiarly known, "Baldy Smith," commanded the division.
He is too well known to all who admire a true soldier to require more than a mention here,
and his great fame has been well and faithfully earned.

No more splendid material, either for officers or men, ever entered into the composition of
a division, and how nobly it played its part in the great drama of the war, it shall be part
of our duty to record. Drills, regimental, brigade and division, were again in order, and picket
duty now became a part of our routine.

This would not be a faithful chronicle of the doings of the new regiment, were we to forget
to relate the history of our first expedition into the enemy's country.

An order came one evening in February for Colonel McKean to take his regiment and make a reconnoissance
towards Vienna. His instructions were to pass the picket line, advance towards Vienna, make
a thorough reconnoissance and return.

The news spread through the camp, and the regiment was ablaze with excitement. Some who had
been on the sick list, and were excused from camp duty, sought from the surgeon permission
to accompany the expedition, while a few who had been, up to this time, well, were earnest
in their applications to be excused from the march.

The regiment was formed at ten o'clock at night; thick darkness, darkness of the blackest and
most intense degree, prevailed. One could scarcely see his neighbor whose shoulder touched
his own. We were miles away from the enemy, but the men were to be instructed in performing
their movements in secrecy; so the commands were passed along the line, as the companies were
forming, in whisper. No lights were allowed, and we left our camp a column of blackness. We
were presently joined by a guide who carried a lantern. We passed a great many regiments, all
the while observing strict silence.

The mud was deep, very deep; some of the men lost their shoes in the depths of the mire, and
some even lost themselves, and were only discovered when they arrived in camp some hours earlier
than the regiment. Through the darkness we plodded until we reached our destination, at daylight
on the following morning. Here we found bough houses which had been used by rebel cavalry;
and the tracks of many horses imprinted only a little while before, whether by the horses of
our own cavalry, or by those of the enemy, we never knew. The battalion was halted and scouts
were sent to the front and on the flanks. Some of the boys who had lost their shoes in the
mud before we had advanced the first mile, had made the whole march in their stockings; while
others, who had been sick, looked as though they could never get back to camp. The companies
deployed and marched through the woods, but as the enemy was on the other side of Vienna we
saw no rebels. It was noon when we reached our camp, tired and covered with mud. Those who
went laughed at those who remained behind, and called them "dead beats!" The "beats" tauntingly
demanded of the others what all their demonstration had amounted to.

The New York papers heralded the exploit as a grand advance on the enemy, and we said little
about it.

The first week in March brought lovely weather: birds sang more sweetly, the sun shone more
brightly, and bands played more merrily than usual, and friends passed from regiment to regiment
seeking social pastime with friends.

We had known no such pleasant times in camp; still we were waiting for orders to advance. During
the night of Sunday, the 8th of March, the order came: "This division will move at four o'clock
in the morning with two days' rations in haversacks." Little rest we got that night; the hammer
and the axe were plied vigorously in tearing down quarters and packing stores, and as the sun
rose in the morning the whole army was in motion. It was a sublime spectacle: that immense
line of troops pouring along hour after hour, stretching over the hills as far as the eye could
reach; a hundred and twenty thousand troops on the move! Just beyond and above them, in the
gray sky of the morning, hung a beautiful rainbow. At six our division commenced to march.
Rain soon began to fall, and continued all day. We passed through Vienna and Lewinsville, each
a hamlet of a dozen houses, and reached our camping ground at five o'clock in the afternoon,
tired, and drenched, and hungry.

Great numbers of troops had already occupied the fields, and the whole country seemed alive
with men and horses, artillery and wagons. We were in the vicinity of Fairfax Court House,
about a mile to the northward, on what was called Flint Hill.

The army, for the first time, was under "tentes d'abri," or, as they are now called, shelter
tents. Until now the enlisted men had occupied the spacious Sibley, or the comfortable wedge
tents, and all officers were quartered in wall tents; now, line officers and enlisted men were
to occupy shelter tents, which they were to carry on their shoulders; and although a small
number of wall tents could be carried in the wagons for field and staff officers, yet so imperfect
was the understanding, in or out of the quartermaster's department, of what could or ought
to be done, that most regimental field and staff officers were left without any shelter at all.

The men proceeded to make themselves as comfortable as possible under their novel coverings,
and as evening approached, the hills were magnificently illuminated with thousands of camp
fires. Very few men occupied their new tents that night. They had not been accustomed to lie
upon wet ground, with only a single blanket wrapped about them, so during all the night groups
of soldiers stood about the camp fires, talking in low tones and wondering what was to happen
in the morning. The sky was clear and bright when the sun rose, and as we looked out upon the
hill tops, dotted with clean white tents, and bristling with stacks of shining muskets, we
exulted in the thought that we were part of the Grand Army that was now at work. Soon we knew
that we were not to fight here. The cavalry, and some of Porter's division, were returning
from Manassas and Centreville, both places burned and deserted. Were we to pursue the retreating
army, or were we to return to Washington to take a new start? Parties from the division rode
to Centreville and Manassas. The works were indeed formidable and the barracks extensive; and
the old chestnut logs with blackened ends, that were mounted in some of the embrasures, had,
at a distance, grim visages. The smoking ruins betokened the destructiveness of war. On the
old battle-field lay bleaching the bones of horses and men, and here and there might be seen
portions of human skeletons protruding from the shallow graves where some pretense had been
made at burial. Fragments of shells, broken muskets and solid shot strewed the ground.

Head-quarters of the army were established at Fairfax Court House, and thither repaired the
corps commanders to hold a council in regard to our future movements. The country about our
camp was rolling and sparsely settled. Nearly all the houses were deserted, and most of them
destroyed so far as any future usefulness was concerned. One house, the ruins of which stood
not far from our camp, and which had been the most comfortable place in the whole section of
country, had been the residence of a northern farmer. Although the house was completely stripped,
and nothing of the barns and outhouses remained but the frames, yet there were many evidences
of the thrift and comfort of the former occupant. A northern reaper, several horse rakes, ploughs
of improved patterns, and other modern implements of agriculture, betokened a genuine farmer.
We were told that he was driven from his home early in the war, and had now found refuge among
his friends in New Hampshire. But the houses of the southerners had not been exempt from the
general devastation, and some who had sought refuge in Richmond had left their homes to ruin.
The people were evidently strongly "secesh," although some of them professed to be glad to see us.

It cannot be said that the presence of our army afforded them great protection, for the men,
unused to the strict discipline which afterward prevailed, coolly appropriated whatever articles
seemed to them to be of use either for the present or the future. It was amusing to see the
soldiers of some of the divisions in which less than the usual discipline prevailed, peering
and creeping about wherever there seemed a prospect of plunder. Now one would pass with a pair
of chickens; next, one bringing a clothes line; then one with part of an old table, and still
another with half a dozen eggs. This system of plunder was at length checked, in a measure
at least. Fowls, eggs and potatoes could be purchased of the people at fair rates, while rebel
currency could be bought for silver at a very considerable discount. Twenty-five cent and one
cent shinplasters were brought into camp and laughed at by men who were afterward glad to get
shinplasters from another manufactory.

To Fairfax Court House was but a short distance; and a ride to the village afforded a pleasant
gallop of a morning. The place, and the country half a mile on each side, was occupied by McCall's
division. The village was pleasantly located on high ground, surrounded by fine groves. It
contained some pretty residences, which were occupied by officers as head-quarters: their horses,
in some instances, being picketed on the porticos, and in others in the kitchens. The village
was nearly deserted by its own people, not more than fifty of the original inhabitants being
left, though the population of the town before the war was nearly six hundred. Houses which
were deserted were generally stripped of everything. The court house was a solid old brick
building of very limited dimensions, with a little bell swinging in a comical looking steeple.
The court house was by no means an exception to the general rule of destruction; the seats
were torn out, and the judge's bench had been split in pieces, and nearly all carried away
by pockets full, as relics. At one of the houses where the family still remained, a party reined
up and made some inquiries of the pater familias, a hangdog looking specimen, with an old slouched
hat covered to the crown with rusty crape, a mark of second-hand gentility in these parts.
He said that "this yer war" had caused such a famine among the people, that nearly all of them
had been obliged to leave; some had gone to Washington and some to Richmond, "a right smart
lot of them had gone to Richmond." He had "reckoned onct or twict" that he would have to go
too, but he "had succeeded in hanging on so long."

Our division was reviewed by General McClellan, who was received with enthusiasm. Although
many of us were familiar with the appearance of the Commander-in-Chief, this was his first
appearance to us as a division. The General appeared a man below the medium height, with broad
shoulders, full chest and a round pleasing face relieved by a heavy moustache. He sat his horse
well and rode with great speed. While his appearance and address were pleasing, there seemed
in his smooth face and mild eye nothing to indicate a man of brilliant genius or great purpose.

At length the council of corps commanders had rendered its decision, and the grand campaign
of the Virginian Peninsula was planned. On the morning of the fourteenth of March, with buoyant
hopes and exulting anticipations of a "quick, sharp and decisive," and as we devoutly believed,
a successful campaign, we left our camp at Flint Hill. It had few charms for us, and we were
glad to leave it. How little we yet knew of real campaigning. Although we had notice several
hours beforehand that we were to move by daylight, yet many, indeed, the majority of us, marched
that morning without breakfast.

No morning sun cheered us as the day began, but the sky was hung with heavy clouds. A drizzling
rain, now diminishing almost to a heavy mist, and now coming in fresh showers, made the marching
heavy and unpleasant. Grandly appeared that majestic army as it filed down the turnpike to
Alexandria. At times the elevation of the road afforded a view of the mighty column for miles
to the front, and at other times we could see it pouring onward an endless stream of cavalry,
infantry, artillery and wagons, far from the rear.

So grand a spectacle had never been witnessed on this continent before. Our march was rapid
and we made no halt for dinner: those who went without breakfast had poor chance for coffee
that day.

Towards evening the rain increased, and as we drew off into a piece of woods five miles out
from Alexandria, the rain came down in sheets. Near our halting place were some deserted houses.
No sooner had we stopped than began the work of destruction, afterward so familiar to us, and
in less than an hour there was not a board or timber left of either building. The ground, although
quite uneven and sloping, soon became so flooded that tents, even when they could be pitched,
were untenable. The men attempted to build fires, but in most instances the floods of water
quenched the flames. Some, however, succeeded in starting huge fires, and around these stood
the men during the whole night, while the tempest poured in torrents upon them. A few of the
officers of the division, among whom was one who afterward became noted for looking out for
and providing good things for his regiment as quartermaster, sought refuge in a house not far
off, where, for the moderate sum of twenty-five cents each, they were allowed by the people
sleeping room upon the floor. Never since the times of Pharaoh was an army so thoroughly drenched.
During more than three years campaigning in the field our boys never forgot that night; and
to this day they frequently refer to the disagreeable experience in what they not inappropriately
term "Camp Misery." Here, in "Camp Misery," we remained several days, waiting to embark for
Fortress Monroe.

Without doubt, the rebels all this time knew of our destination; for the people among whom
we were encamped were by no means our friends or indifferent to the success of the rebels,
and the point of our destination was well known and freely spoken of among them.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ARMY TRANSFERRED TO THE PENINSULA.

    Embarking for the Peninsula--Mount Vernon--On the
    Potomac--Hampton--In camp--Orders to march--A night visit to
    Fortress Monroe--The advance--A sifting--A Quaker battery--At
    Newport News--Compliments of the Teaser.

On Sunday morning, March 23d, we marched to Alexandria. The whole of our division, and of the
other divisions of Keyes' corps, were there, besides part of Heintzelman's corps and other
troops. In the course of the afternoon, this great body of men was embarked upon the transports.
The vessels having received their lading, swung out upon the river and laid at anchor during
the night. Early in the morning the whole fleet was under way, steaming down the river. We
passed Mount Vernon--the bells of the fleet tolling. The tomb lies in the midst of a clump
of firs just south and a little below the house; the mansion and the grounds are nearly as
they were left by Washington, and the whole looks down upon the river, calling upon the passer-by
for a thought upon the great man whose dust lies beneath the fir trees. After passing Mount
Vernon, nothing of special interest was seen except the broad expanse of waters of this magnificent
stream. A few large mansions, a few inferior houses, and now and then a little hamlet, appeared
on the banks; and at Aquia creek could be seen the insignificant earthworks that had covered
the few field pieces which for so many months had kept up an efficient blockade of the Potomac.

How different was all this from our Hudson! The country bordering on the river is beautiful;
nature has done everything for it, but a cursed institution has blighted it. There is not a
country in the world where nature has been more lavish with its blessings, and yet it is forsaken,
worn out, almost a wilderness. The magnificent rivers and unsurpassed harbors of Virginia,
its natural fertility and the mildness of its climate, present natural advantages scarcely
equaled by any country. As we stood upon the deck of the steamer, watching and admiring the
ever-varying beauties of the noble stream, some one repeated these lines from Barlow's Columbiad:

