Here, too, and elsewhere, the humour gives us a certain impression of thinness. It is pressed
too far, and spun out too long. Compare De Quincey's mode of beating out his one joke through
pages of laboured facetiousness, with Swift's concentrated and pungent irony, as in the proposal
for eating babies, or the argument to prove that the abolition of Christianity may be attended
with some inconveniences. It is the difference between the stiffest of nautical grogs and the
negus provided by thoughtful parents for a child's evening party. In some parts of the essay
De Quincey sinks far lower. I do not believe that in any English author of reputation there
is a more feeble piece of forced fun, than in the description of the fight of the amateur in
murder with the baker at Munich. One knows by a process of reasoning that the man is joking;
but one feels inclined to blush, through sympathy with a very clear man so exposing himself.
A blemish of the same kind makes itself unpleasantly obvious at many points of his writings.
He seems to fear that we shall find his stately and elaborate style rather too much for our
nerves. He is conscious that, as a great master of language, he can play what tricks he pleases,
without danger of remonstrance. And therefore, he every now and then plunges into slang, not
irreverently, as a vulgar writer might do, but of malice prepense. The shock is almost as great
as if an organist performing a solemn tune should suddenly introduce an imitation of the mewing
of a cat. Now, he seems to say, you can't accuse me of being dull and pompous. Let me quote
an instance or two from his graver writings. He wishes to argue, in defence of Christianity,
that the ancients were insensible to ordinary duties of humanity. 'Our wicked friend Kikero,
for instance, who was so bad, but wrote so well, who did such naughty things, but said such
pretty things, has himself noticed in one of his letters, with petrifying coolness, that he
knew of destitute old women in Rome who went without tasting food for one, two, or even three
days. After making such a statement, did Kikero not tumble downstairs and break at least three
of his legs in his hurry to call a public meeting,' &c., &c. What delicate humour! The grave
apologist of Christianity actually calls Cicero, Kikero, and talks about 'three of his legs!'
Do we not all explode with laughter? A parallel case occurs in his argument about the Essenes;
where he grows so irrepressibly funny as to call Josephus 'Mr. Joe,' and addresses him as follows:--'Wicked
Joseph, listen to me: you've been telling us a fairy tale; and for my part, I've no objection
to a fairy tale in any situation, because if one can make no use of it oneself, always one
knows that a child will be thankful for it. But this tale, Mr. Joseph, happens also to be a
lie; secondly, a fraudulent lie; thirdly, a malicious lie.' I have seen this stuff described
as 'scholarlike badinage;' but the only effect of such exquisite foolery, within my mind, is
to persuade one that a writer assailed by such weapons, and those weapons used by a man who
has the whole resources of the English language at his command, must probably have been encountering
an inconvenient truth. I will simply refer to the story of Sir Isaac Newton sitting all day
with one stocking on and one off, in the Casuistry of Roman Meals, as an illustration of the
way in which a story ought not to be told. Its most conspicuous, though not its worst fault,
its extreme length, protects it from quotation.

It is strange to find that a writer, pre-eminently endowed with delicacy of ear, and boasting
of the complex harmonies of his style, should condescend to such an irritating defect. De Quincey
says of one of the greatest masters of the humorous:--'The gyration within which his (Lamb's)
sentiment wheels, no matter of what kind it may be, is always the shortest possible. It does
not prolong itself, it does not repeat itself, it does not propagate itself.' And he goes on
to connect the failing with Lamb's utter insensibility to music, and indifference to 'the rhythmical
in prose composition.' The criticism is a fine one in its way, but it may perhaps explain some
of De Quincey's shortcomings in Lamb's peculiar sphere. De Quincey's jokes are apt to repeat
and prolong and propagate themselves, till they become tiresome; and the delicate touch of
the true humorist, just indicating a half-comic, half-pathetic thought, is alien to De Quincey's
more elaborate style. Yet he had a true and peculiar sense of humour. That faculty may be predominant
or latent; it may form the substance of a whole book, as in the case of Sterne: or it may permeate
every sentence, as in Carlyle's writings; or it may simply give a faint tinge, rather perceived
by subsequent analysis than consciously felt at the time; and in this lowest degree it frequently
gives a certain charm to De Quincey's writing. When he tries overt acts of wit, he becomes
simply vulgar; when he directly aims at the humorous, we feel his hand to be rather heavy;
but he is occasionally very happy in that ironical method, of which the Essay on Murder is
the most notorious specimen. The best example, in my opinion, is the description of his elder
brother in the Autobiographical Sketches. The account of the rival kingdoms of Gombroon and
Tigrasylvania; of poor De Quincey's troubles in getting rid of his subjects' tails; of his
despair at the suggestion that by making them sit down for six hours a day they might rub them
off in the course of several centuries; of his ingenious plan of placing his unlucky island
at a distance of 75 degrees of latitude from his brother's capital; and of his dismay at hearing
of the 'vast horns and promontories' which run down from all parts of the hostile dominions
towards his unoffending little territory, are touched with admirable skill. The grave, elaborate
detail of the perplexities of his childish imagination is pleasant, and at the same time pathetic.
When, in short, by simply applying his usual stateliness of manner to a subject a little beneath
it in dignity, he can produce the desired effect, he is eminently successful. The same rhetoric
which would be appropriate (to use his favourite illustration) in treating the theme of 'Belshazzar
the King giving a great feast to a thousand of his lords,' has a certain piquancy, when for
Belshazzar we substitute a schoolboy playing at monarchy. He is indulging in a whimsical masquerade,
and the pomp is assumed in sport instead of in earnest. Nobody can do a little mock majesty
so well as he who on occasion can be seriously majestic. Yet when he altogether abandons his
strong ground, and chooses to tumble and make grimaces before us, like an ordinary clown, he
becomes simply offensive. The great tragedian is capable on due occasion of pleasant burlesque;
but sheer unadulterated comedy is beyond his powers. De Quincey, in short, can parody his own
serious writing better than anybody, and the capacity is a proof that he had the faculty of
humour; but for a genuine substantive joke--a joke which, resting on its own merits, instead
of being the shadow of his serious writing, is to be independently humorous--he seems, to me
at least, to be generally insufferable.

De Quincey's final claim to a unique position rests on the fact that his 'impassioned prose'
was applied to confessions. He compares himself, as I have said, to Rousseau and Augustine.
The analogy with the last of these two writers would, I should imagine, be rather difficult
to carry beyond the first part of resemblance; but it is possible to make out a somewhat closer
affinity to Rousseau. In both cases, at least, we have to deal with men of morbid temperament,
ruined or seriously injured by their utter incapacity for self-restraint. So far, however,
as their confessions derive an interest from the revelation of character, Rousseau is more
exciting almost in the same proportion as he confesses greater weaknesses. The record of such
errors by their chief actor, and that actor a man of such singular ability, presents us with
a strangely attractive problem. De Quincey has less to confess, and is less anxious to lay
bare his own morbid propensities. His story excites compassion; and, as in the famous episode
of 'Anne,' attracts us by the genuine tenderness and delicacy of feeling. He was free from
the errors which make some of Rousseau's confessions loathsome, but he was also not the man
to set fire, like Rousseau, to the hearts of a whole generation. His narrative is a delight
to literary students; not a volcanic outburst to shake the foundations of society. Nearly all
that he has to tell us is that he ran away from school, spent some time in London, for no very
assignable reason, in a semi-starving condition, and then, equally without reason, surrendered
at discretion to the respectabilities and went to Oxford like an ordinary human being. It is
no doubt a proof of extraordinary literary power that the facts told with De Quincey's comment
of rich meditative eloquence become so fascinating. Unfortunately, though he managed to write
recollections which are, in their way, unique, he never achieved anything at all comparable
to his autobiographic revelations. Vague thoughts passed through his mind of composing a great
work on Political Economy, or of writing a still more wonderful treatise on the Emendation
of the Human Intellect. But he never seems to have made any decided steps towards the fulfilment
of such dreams, and remained to the end of his days a melancholy specimen of wasted force.
There is nothing, unfortunately, very uncommon in the story, except so far as its hero was
a man of genius. The history of Coleridge exemplifies a still higher ambition, resulting, it
is true, in a much greater influence upon the thought of the age, but almost equally sad. Their
lives might be put into tracts for the use of opium-eaters; and whilst there was still hope
of redeeming them, it might have been worth while to condemn them with severity. Indignation
is now out of place, and we can only grieve and pass by. When thousands of men are drinking
themselves to death every year, there is nothing very strange or dramatic in the history of
one ruined by opium instead of by gin.

From De Quincey's writings we get the notion of a man amiable, but with an uncertain temper;
with fine emotions, but an utter want of moral strength; and, in short, of a nature of much
delicacy and tenderness retreating into opium and the Lake district, from a world which was
too rough for him. He uttered in many fragmentary ways his views of philosophy and politics.
Whatever their value, De Quincey has of course no claim to be an originator. He not only had
not strength to stand alone, but he belonged to a peculiar side-current of English thought.
He was the adjective of which Coleridge was the substantive; and if Coleridge himself was an
unsatisfactory and imperfect thinker, his imperfections are greatly increased in his friend
and disciple. He shared that belief which some people have not yet abandoned, that the answer
to all our perplexities is to be found in some of the mysteries of German metaphysics. If we
could only be taught to distinguish between the reason and the understanding, the scales would
fall from our eyes, and we should see that the Thirty-nine Articles contained the plan on which
the universe was framed. He had an acquaintance, which, if his own opinion were correct, was
accurate and profound with Kant's writings, and had studied Schelling, Fichte, and Hegel. He
could talk about concepts and categories and schematisms without losing his head amongst those
metaphysical heights. He knew how by the theoretic reason to destroy all proofs of the existence
of God, and then, by introducing the practical reason, to set the existence of God beyond a
doubt. He fancied that he was able to translate the technicalities of Kant into plain English;
and he believed that when so translated, they would prove to have a real and all important
meaning. If German metaphysics be a science, and not a mere edifice of moonshine; and if De
Quincey had really penetrated the secrets of that science, we have missed a chance of enlightenment.
As it is, we have little left except a collection of contemptuous prejudices. De Quincey thought
himself entitled to treat Locke as a shallow pretender. The whole eighteenth century was, with
one or two exceptions, a barren wilderness to him. He aspersed its reasoners, from Locke to
Paley; he scorned its poets with all the bitterness of the school which first broke loose from
the rule of Pope; and its prose-writers, with the exception of Burke, were miserable beings
in his eyes. He would have seen with little regret a holocaust of all the literature produced
in England between the death of Milton and the rise of Wordsworth. Naturally, he hated an infidel
with that kind of petulant bitterness which possesses an old lady in a country village, who
has just heard that some wicked people dispute the story of Balaam's ass. And, as a corollary,
he combined the whole French people in one sweeping censure, and utterly despised their morals,
manners, literature, and political principles. He was a John Bull, as far as a man can be who
is of weakly, nervous temperament, and believes in Kant.

One or two illustrations may be given of the force of these effeminate prejudices; and it is
to be remarked with regret that they are specially injurious in a department where he otherwise
had eminent merits, that, namely, of literary criticism. Any man who lived in the eighteenth
century was primâ facie a fool; if a free thinker, his case was all but hopeless; but if a
French free thinker, it was desperate indeed. He lets us into the secret of his prejudices,
which, indeed, is tolerably transparent in his statement that he found it hard to reverence
Coleridge when he supposed him to be a Socinian. Now, though a 'liberal man,' he could not
hold a Socinian to be a Christian; nor could he 'think that any man, though he make himself
a marvellously clever disputant, ever could tower upwards into a very great philosopher, unless
he should begin or end with Christianity.' The canon may be sound, but it at once destroys
the pretensions of such men as Hobbes, Spinoza, Hume, and even, though De Quincey considers
him 'a dubious exception,' Kant. Even heterodoxy is enough to alienate his sympathies. 'Think
of a man,' he exclaims about poor Whiston, 'who had brilliant preferment within his reach,
dragging his poor wife and daughter for half a century through the very mire of despondency
and destitution, because he disapproved of Athanasius, or because the "Shepherd of Hermas"
was not sufficiently esteemed by the Church of England.' To do him justice, De Quincey admits,
in another passage, that this ridicule of a poor man for sacrificing his interests to his principles
was not quite fair; but then Whiston was only an Arian. When Priestley, who was a far worse
heretic, had his house sacked by a mob and his life endangered, De Quincey can scarcely restrain
his exultation. He admits in terms that Priestley ought to be pitied, but adds that the fanaticism
of the mob was 'much more reasonable' than the fanaticism of Priestley; and that those who
play at bowls must look out for rubbers. Porson is to be detested for his letters to Travis,
though De Quincey does not dare to defend the disputed text. He has, however, a pleasant insinuation
at command. Political heretics fare little better. Fox's eloquence was 'ditch-water,' with
a shrill effervescence of 'imaginary gas.' Burnet was a 'gossiper, slanderer, and notorious
falsifier of facts.' That one of his sermons was burnt is 'the most consolatory fact in his
whole worldly career;' and he asks, 'would there have been much harm in tying his lordship
to the sermon?' Junius was not only a knave who ought to have been transported, but his literary
success rested upon an utter delusion. He had neither 'sentiment, imagination, nor generalisation.'
Johnson, though the best of Tories, lived in the wrong century, and unluckily criticised Milton
with foolish harshness. Therefore 'Johnson, viewed in relation to Milton, was a malicious,
mendacious, and dishonest man.'

Let us turn to greater names. Goethe's best work was 'Werther,' and De Quincey is convinced
that his reputation 'must decline for the next generation or two, until it reaches its just
level.' His merits have been exaggerated for three reasons--first, his great age; secondly,
'the splendour of his official rank at the court of Weimar;' thirdly, 'his enigmatical and
unintelligible writing.' But 'in Germany his works are little read, and in this country not
at all.' 'Wilhelm Meister' is morally detestable, and, artistically speaking, rubbish. Of the
author of the Philosophical Dictionary, of the 'Essai sur les Moeurs,' of 'Candide,' and certain
other trifles, his judgment is that Horace Walpole's reputation is the same in kind, as the
genuine reputation of Voltaire: 'Both are very splendid memoir writers, and of the two, Lord
Orford is the more brilliant.' In the same tone he compares Gibbon to Southey, giving the advantage
to the latter on the score of his poetical ability; and his view of another great infidel may
be inferred from the following phrase. One of Rousseau's opinions is only known to us through
Cowper, 'for in the unventilated pages of its originator it would have lurked undisturbed down
to this hour of June, 1819.'

Voltaire and Rousseau have the double title to hatred of being Frenchmen and freethinkers.
But even orthodox Frenchmen fare little better. 'The French Bossuets, Bourdaloues, Fénelons,
&c., whatever may be thought of their meagre and attenuated rhetoric, are one and all the most
commonplace of thinkers.' In fact, the mere mention of France acts upon him like a red rag
on a bull. The French, 'in whom the lower forms of passion are constantly bubbling up, from
the shallow and superficial character of their feelings,' are incapable of English earnestness.
Their taste is 'anything but good in all that department of wit and humour'--the department,
apparently, of anecdotes--'and the ground lies in their natural want of veracity;' whereas
England bases upon its truthfulness a well-founded claim to 'a moral pre-eminence among the
nations.' Belgians, French, and Italians attract the inconsiderate by 'facile obsequiousness,'
which, however, is a pendent of 'impudence and insincerity. Want of principle and want of moral
sensibility compose the original fundus of southern manners.' Our faults of style, such as
they are, proceed from our manliness. In France there are no unmarried women at the age which
amongst us gives the insulting name of old maid. 'What striking sacrifices of sexual honour
does this one fact argue!' The French style is remarkable for simplicity--'a strange pretension
for anything French;' but on the whole the intellectual merits of their style are small, 'chiefly
negative,' and 'founded on the accident of their colloquial necessities.' They are amply compensated,
too, by 'the prodigious defects of the French in all the higher qualities of prose composition.'
Even their handwriting is the 'very vilest form of scribbling which exists in Europe,' and
they and the Germans are 'the two most gormandising races in Europe.' They display a brutal
selfishness in satisfying their appetites, whereas Englishmen at all public meals are remarkably
conspicuous for 'a spirit of mutual attention and self-sacrifice.' It is enough to show the
real degradation of their habits, that they use the 'odious gesture' of shrugging their shoulders,
and are fond of the 'vile ejaculation "bah!"' which is as bad as to puff the smoke of a tobacco-pipe
into your companion's face. They have neither self-respect nor respect for others. French masters
are never dignified, though sometimes tyrannical; French servants are always, even without
meaning it, disrespectfully familiar. Many of their manners and usages are 'essentially vulgar,
and their apparent affability depends not on kindness of heart, but love of talking.'

The impudence of the assertions is really amusing, though one cannot but regret that the vulgar
prejudice of the old-fashioned John Bull should have been embodied in the pages of a master
of our language. They are worth notice because they were not special to De Quincey, but characteristic
of one very intelligible tendency of his generation. De Quincey's prejudices are chiefly the
reflection of those of the Coleridge school in general, though he added to them a few pet aversions
of his own. At times his genuine acuteness of mind raises him above the teaching of his masters,
or at least enables him to detect their weaknesses. He discovers Coleridge's plagiarisms, though
he believes and, indeed, speaks in the most exaggerated terms of his philosophical pretensions;
whilst, in treating of Wordsworth, he points out with great skill the fallacy of some of his
theories and the inconsistency of his practice. But whilst keenly observant of some of the
failings of his friends, he reproduces others in even an exaggerated type. He shows to the
full their narrow-minded hatred of the preceding century, of all forms of excellence which
did not correspond to their favourite types, and of all speculation which did not lead to,
or start from their characteristic doctrines. The error is fully pardonable. We must not look
to men who are leading a revolt against established modes of thought for a full appreciation
of the doctrines of their antagonists; and if De Quincey could recognise no merit in Voltaire
or Rousseau, in Locke, Paley, or Jeremy Bentham, their followers were quite prepared to retaliate
in kind. One feels, however, that such prejudices are more respectable when they are the foibles
of a strong mind engaged in active warfare. We can pardon the old campaigner, who has become
bitter in an internecine contest. It is not quite so pleasant to discover the same bitterness
in a gentleman who has looked on from a distance, and never quite made up his mind to buckle
on his armour. De Quincey had not earned the right of speaking evil of his enemies. If a man
chances to be a Hedonist, he should show the good temper which is the best virtue of the indolent.
To lie on a bed of roses, and snarl at everybody who contradicts your theories, seems to imply
rather testiness of temper than strength of conviction. De Quincey is a Christian on Epicurean
principles. He dislikes an infidel because his repose is disturbed by the arguments of freethinkers.
He fears that he will be forced to think conscientiously, and to polish his logical weapons
afresh. He mutters that the man is a fool, and could be easily thrashed if it were worth while,
and then turns back to his opium and his rhetoric and his beloved Church of England. There
is no pleasanter institution for a gentleman who likes magnificent historical associations,
and heartily hates the rude revolutionists who would turn the world upside down, and thereby
disturb the rest of dreamy metaphysicians.

