Mr. and Mrs. Weatherly, who were living in the Savoy, carefully packed a trunk of their most
valuable belongings, and he started up Post Street dragging the trunk, seeking a place of safety.
The porter of the Savoy called him back, and showed him an express wagon in front of the house,
and said he was about to start for Golden Gate Park, so he lifted his trunk on to the wagon.
About this time a soldier or policeman came along and said, "I want these horses," and without
ceremony unharnessed them, and took them away. In a few minutes the fire had got so near, that
it was impossible to get other horses, or move the wagon by hand and the wagon and contents
were burned.

Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Tharp tell a very interesting story of their experience on that April morning.
Their sleeping room was one fronting on the east side of Scott Street, between Sacramento and
California Streets. When the shock came it rolled their bed from one side of the room to the
other, quite across the room, and where the bed had stood was filled with the broken chimney,
to the amount of more than three tons. Mrs. Tharp remembers having oiled the castors on the
bedstead only a short time before, which she thinks saved their lives. Later in the day or
the beginning of the next, while the fire was still miles away, some friendly but excited neighbors,
came rushing into Mr. Tharp's chambers commanding him to flee as the house was in danger from
the conflagration. He was at that instant engaged in changing his undergarments, and had his
arms and head nearly through. They shouted for him to come quick and save himself. He begged
for a little more time, when one of them petulantly exclaimed: "Oh! let him burn up if he is
so slow!" The fire did not come within two miles of this place.

Shortly after the fire and as soon as people began to realize the extent of the calamity, I
listened to many discussions and prophecies concerning the future in reference to business
and rebuilding. It was the general opinion that the business of jewelry and other luxuries,
would be ruined for many years to come; that Fillmore Street and Van Ness Avenue would be only
used temporarily; that the down-town district would be restored in two years--many entertained
opinions exactly the reverse, and predicted all sorts of gloomy outlooks. Many theories and
predictions were made, none of which have been verified.

My daughter, Mrs. Oxnard, with her husband was on the way to New York. At about noon of the
18th they heard, at North Platte, that there had been a severe shock of earthquake in San Francisco,
and that the lower part of the city south of Market Street was on fire. They thought the report
exaggerated, and at first declined to give it much attention; but when they met friends at
Grand Island at about 3 o'clock they got information of such a character that it began to give
them fear. At every place until they reached Chicago additional news was obtained, which indicated
a very alarming condition of things here. They went to the offices of the Southern Pacific
and the Santa Fe Railroad companies, but could get nothing that they considered reliable. So
they started on their way to New York from Chicago in doubt as to whether they should continue
or turn back. On arrival in New York on the 20th there was much excitement. Newspapers issued
extras every hour, filled with fearful stories and of the progress of the fire. The limits
of the burned districts were reported with great accuracy, but the stories were alarmingly
exaggerated, and in many instances absurd. One telegram read that the dead were so numerous
that it was impossible to give burial, and the Government at Washington was asked to furnish
a ship that they might be carried out far into the ocean and thrown into the sea. Some were
fortunate enough to get a telegram, which was eagerly read and discussed. The number of people
killed was reported to be from one to thirty thousand.

I finally received a telegram from them asking whether I would advise them to return, which
I answered at once to come by all means. So they started back, arriving here on the 4th of May.

My sister was in Dresden, Germany, and was like others in an excited condition, until she could
hear by mail from San Francisco. She says the first knowledge of the disaster reaching her
was from a small evening newspaper printed in English, which in a very brief item said that
"San Francisco was destroyed by an earthquake this morning [April 18th]." This was all the
information which she could obtain that afternoon and evening. A neighbor, a German lady, came
in the next morning and told her that the German newspapers of that morning said that the city
of San Francisco was on fire, and that the loss of life was enormous. That day, the 19th, she
visited the bulletin boards of the different newspapers, and with her daughter endeavored to
translate the brief cable telegrams which were posted. The news came to London in English,
and there cut down as brief as possible and translated into German, so the information was
very brief. San Francisco people who were there sought one another for news. Within a week
the New York papers came, which gave more particulars. While waiting for authentic information,
such items as these were in circulation: "Golden Gate Park has been withered by the intense
heat, and people are crowded to the beach," and that "Typhoid fever has broken out"; that a
tidal-wave had swept over the city; that the earthquake shocks continued; that all communication
with the interior by rail or otherwise had been cut off; that thirty thousand people had been
killed. Whether her family and friends were alive she did not know.

In this state of mind, she found in a New York paper a picture of the Spreckels residence which
showed mine. This was the first information that she received in reference to her family or
their belongings. Mr. and Mrs. Dohrmann and his sister, Mrs. Paulsen, of San Francisco, were
in Dresden, and did much to allay the fears of the San Franciscans.

During the first few days the German people got over the excitement, but not so with those
whose homes were in this city. A letter which I mailed to her on April 22d reached her on May
8th, which was the first one she received, and which assured her of the safety of her family
and friends.

Charles Stetson Wheeler, Jr., who was in school at Belmont, sends me an interesting account
of his experiences. He says:

I was awakened by the violent shaking of my bed, which rolled across the room and struck the
one occupied by my roommate. The pictures and frames fell from the walls, the bowls and pitchers
from the washstands, the books from the shelves, and all were scattered over the floor. A piece
of plastering and a broken wash-bowl struck me on my head. I at first thought it was the playful
prank of the boys, but having got out of my bed, I was thrown headlong on the floor. I knew
it was something serious and realized that it was an earthquake. I in some way got down the
stairs; I hardly know how. In the yard I found my companions, badly frightened, all in pajamas,
gazing at the sagging walls, broken windows and chimneys. My roommate, who had got out ahead
of me, rushed up to me, and cried out: "By Jove, I am glad you're out safe; I didn't think
of you until I saw you zig-zagging out of the building." I thanked him and joined the crowd,
watching one of the teachers, who was climbing the flagpole, so as to be on top of the building
if it further collapsed. We were all silent for a few minutes, but when the shock was fully
over, we talked glibly and loud enough, and had many jokes.

No fires were started, as in San Francisco. We asked one another "if this was the end of the
world or only the beginning." "Do you think we will get a holiday?" etc. As the excitement
subsided, we began to shiver, so by common consent we sought in the ruins for our clothing.
I felt that another shock might follow, and possibly worse than the first, and got out of the
wrecked building as soon as possible.

A little later I found the Head Master of the school. "Good morning," said I. "Unfortunate
morning," he replied. "Brick structures do not hold together when acted upon by conflicting
motions caused by the vibrations due to earthquakes. This disturbance is purely local, and
I think that Belmont is the only place which has suffered." I thought of our home in the city,
which is built of brick, and that my mother, father, and sisters were in it. The more I thought
of it, the weaker I felt, until my knees were shaking. In about twenty minutes I was at the
Belmont Station determined to go to the city to learn the fate of my family.

I tried to telephone, but I was told that both telephone and wire connections between San Francisco
and Belmont were broken. This was the first proof that the earthquake was more than local,
and my fears were heightened. As I waited I was joined by other boys. All were curious to know
what had happened in other places, but few were worried. Soon the entire school was gathered
at the station. A teacher on a bicycle arrived and demanded in the name of  Mr. R--that we
return to school. The majority complied, but five of us refused. We were promised expulsion.

At last the train pulled in. We boarded it with difficulty, for it was packed with Stanford
students. They told us that their college was a wreck.

"The buildings are of stone, you know," said one, "and stone buildings can't stand up against,
an earthquake."

Hearing remarks like this made me so dizzy with dread that I began picturing to myself the
ruins of my home. I could almost hear the groans of those most dear to me buried under tons
of stone and beams, It was maddening, and I had to struggle some to keep from crying out like
a child.

Slowly the train pulled by the ruins of San Mateo, Burlingame, and Milbrae, but just outside
of San Bruno the long line of straining cars came to a sudden halt. We climbed out to find
out the cause of the stop. Ahead we saw several hundred yards of track buckled and humped like
much crumpled ribbon. We had gone as far as possible by rail.

We counted the money in the crowd and decided to rent a rig if possible and drive the twenty
miles to our homes. After walking three miles, we found no one willing to take us to the city
for the money we were able to offer; so at this point two of our party left us.

We must have gone about eight miles when the van of the thousands leaving the city met us.
They were principally hobos and riffraff, packing their blankets on their backs. We stopped
and anxiously inquired the plight of the city. Some said that the city was burned to the ground,
some that the whole town was submerged by a tidal wave, but all agreed in this particular:
that it was time to leave the city, for soon there would be nothing left of it.

The numbers of the retreat were increasing now. We could see mothers wheeling their babes in
buggies, limping, dusty, and tired. Men lashed and swore at horses straining at loads of household
furnishings. All were in desperate haste. This increased our speed in the opposite direction.
We began to see the dense black cloud of smoke hanging above the sky-line ahead of us. We almost
ran.

As we passed over each mile we heard more distressing tales from those leaving. Men called
us fools to be going toward the doomed town. Thousands were traveling away; we were the only
ones going toward San Francisco.

At last we came to the old Sutro Forest. We toiled up to the summit of the ridge and looked
down for the first time upon the city we were raised in. In my mind, it was a sight that shall
always be vivid. The lower part of the city was a hell-like furnace. Even from that distance
we could hear the roar of the flames and the crash of falling beams. We were paralyzed for
a moment with the wonder of it. Then we began to run, run hard, down the slope toward the city.
It was impossible for us to see our homes, for many hills intervened. Soon we reached the outskirts
of the town. Fear grew stronger and stronger in my heart as I saw that all the chimneys of
the houses were littering the streets through which we passed. They were of brick and so was
my father's house.

The trip across the city seemed endless, even though we strained every effort to hurry. I had
had no breakfast, and was almost sick with fear and hunger. We passed a brick church, and it
was in ruins, shaken to pieces by the shock. I almost reeled over when I saw it. The rest of
the way I ran.

As I came within four blocks of the house I looked anxiously over the roofs of other houses
for its high chimneys that had hitherto been visible from that point. I could not see them!
Then I was sure that all was over, and that my father, mother, and sisters were lost forever.

These last four blocks I fairly flew, in spite of my fatigue. I kept my eyes on the ground,
not daring to raise them as I ran. Then as I reached the curb before the door I never expected
to enter again I looked up. The house, though shorn of its chimneys, stood staunch and strong--they
were safe. For a second I stood still. Then, like a poor fool, I began to laugh and shout.
That was the most joyous home-coming of my life.

      *      *      *      *      *

During the day of Wednesday, April 18th, I saw some of the damage done by the earthquake. The
loss to the California-Street cable railroad was the upper portion of the chimney. I had my
lunch at the Pacific Union Club, corner of Post and Stockton Streets, and noted that building
was damaged but very little; only some few pieces of plastering fell. The Call Building gave
no evidence on the outside. The Commercial Block, in which my office was located, did not show
any damage. The door leading into my office would not open, but the next one did. My house
shows a few cracks. The tops of the chimneys on my house were thrown off, and the kitchen chimney
had to be rebuilt. But the great loss, the great calamity, was the fire. After that had raged
for three days the havoc was fearful to see. For miles and miles there was not a remnant of
anything inflammable remaining,--nothing but brick, stone, broken crockery, iron and telegraph
poles. In the general appearance it resembles the country where a forest fire has swept, the
chimneys and unburned telephone poles representing the standing trunks of trees. The loss of
life is probably nearly 450. Many earthquake shocks were felt during the three days of the
calamity, and for as much as two months we felt gentle reminders.

The soldiers lacked good sense and judgment, or perhaps it may have been that some incompetent
officers gave senseless orders,--for instance, the people occupying the stores on Polk Street,
between Clay and Pacific, and the apartments above, were driven out at 8 A. M. of Thursday,
and not permitted to re-enter. As the fire did not reach this locality until about 4 P. M.,
there was abundant time to save many valuable articles which were by this imbecile order lost.
Why this was done, I did not at the time, nor have I since been able to understand.

