 He is among others the essence of funny in a sensual viewed infinite foolishness,
and we lend our insight and view the same; This however, that j. p. called the comic first the vice
versa sublime, he put the bottom of the metaphysisch-aesthetic repercussions among others further sponsored
by Schelling, Hegel, Ruge, white. Most Eingehendsten treated by Fr. t. Vischer (Tübingen) [2]
this perspective our topic and provides a wealth of sound material is estimable
 

Let's return after this digression to our proper topic. You may contact us for any questions. The
second main form of the comic will continue.

*II The funny thng with two ideas agreeing came in the form of the
previously discussed simple comic.

Only, the idea in question was by their harmony with each other and disharmony with the two standards
that each antipathic feelings aroused. In the present form, the comic included ideas for generating
the pleasant feeling active and the unpleasant feeling in turn is
only one of the two representations given the cause. -[1] Cf. below in
the "irony' above. [2] From Lazarus Icp 206th [Page 51]. We have te so-called
*Righteous glee* to mention,the unpleasant feeling from the infringement
of a given series of ideas against any show of thee two standards.

The plesant feeling resulted from a second presentation given at
the same time with a consideration of the ethical standards of how
justice connects so easily.

The two performances show the relation of cause and effect of crime
and punishment.

On the one hand, it shows the stupidity of wickedness and is annoying,
however it leaves by entering punishment as our sense of justice is
satisfied. -We have already mentioned in the second preliminary example
above, that the educated corpulence a Falstaff laughter can cause
irritation.

These are similar objects of both sensual and ugly.

Laughter as the bald head and red nose, since we have seen this error
(though not always with the right) as a result of a somewhat exuberant
way of life is used.

Accordingly, instead of feeling sorry for the misleading words, but through the satisfaction
that our idea of justice has a pleasant feeling. In the same sense, an educated man who laughs at the stupidity,
not only the extent of his superior knowledge, but rather the assumption that the more stupid or less
based on his own fault, shows the stupid embarraassment or minor injury he has suffered when
earned as we watch him get it by right. -Note, however, this is a very important fact (who has
the best accuracy proves my statement): The penalty may not exceed the just shows us Maass, or else
hears the comic effect in the sense as discussed at this time. We laugh at clumsy people if they cause
as a result of their clumsiness a moderate amount of harm, such as his trousers falling or more
suitably at least [Page 52] tears. But as soon as we see that the
fall has broken his leg or anything more significant, we will not be laughing
because an injury as published Maass has gone to far. This has probably
anodunon Aristotle with his ou phthartikon saying as: Any pain or
damage present must not appear as deserves.

 

A closer study of reflex movements, urging especially an interesting fact of our observation: namely
that characterized almost all of these movements by a wonderful appropriateness, by contributing
to the initiating stimuli, in particular, seem reasonable and connect thought relations, while
yes but actually just reflection and will be excluded from them. The reflex action has either
the removal of the injured part of the body from the area of ​​harm or the distance of
the charming objects of our bodies for the purpose. By the continued contraction of the hand
we avoid the sharp needle through sneezing, we remove the body from the nose, tingling etc Excellent
was the decapitated frog, come on which in accordance with the above, the reflex movements much
more easily and more fully able than preservation of the brain, the appropriateness of his movements
so conspicuous and striking, that could weave to the physiologist, a dispute over whether only
the brain and the spinal cord of the frog is endowed with a soul. In particular, Professor bowed
Pflueger, who has made it to the study of reflex movements very deserving, the view from the soul
in the spinal cord was while Professor Goltz, to whom we owe no less valuable discoveries in this field,
be determined opponent.

I believe that Goltz completely with the rejection of the spinal cord
soul is in the right, if it is denied even suggesting that the defensive
movements of the decapitated frog quite deceptively resemble the product
of a rational deliberation, for the same are not only the place but
also its shape of stimulation changed: I Pinch the frog deprived of
the cerebrum with the forceps, he will strike with the paw of the instrument
to the side, I will rub his skin with acetic acid, immediately makes
the frog wiping movements etc and if, all these [Page 4] Finally,
efforts to no avail and the appeal is still practiced more, crawls
or jumps like the animal.

But even more! take the frog to amputation of that of the stimulated
body side of the leg or the fact that one set sew the same thing to
the body, the ability to run with it, the zuächst attempted movements,
we see how the animal for a few fruitless efforts, the other leg aid
increases.

Unfortunately
I can not continue on this interesting and involved many complicated
experiments and will give only that Goltz [1] an letztgeschilderten
modificirbaren movements (as so-called response movements) of the
same form always differs in extending simple reflex movements.

These latter, which interest us here preferably and for which the above examples, including
one a number of spasmodic movements, so-called reflex seizures, also known as coughing, sneezing,
laughing, crying (ie, screaming and sobbing) in general and yawning are. It is natural to take
from these movements that they follow a certain, reasonable purpose,
and so we have, in fact, the adequacy of sneezing recognize already
have, as we observed that the driven through the nose heavy air power
apparently the task fulfilled, the mucous membrane irritant hinauszuschleudern
the body.

Quite as we see in the violent spasmodic cough from Athemstösse the expulsion of mucus and
dust particles carried from the trachea. - There are these movements
not caused by our will (if the same is also a certain influence may
have on them), they are also in contrast to the so-called "response
movements"

(see above) not modificirbar and betrayed her on the idea independent
occurrence For example, in that we also sneeze if a spring beard tickles
your nose, although it is unlikely the air flow when sneezing force
would have enough [1] Contributions to the theory of functions of
the nerve centers of the frog.

Berlin 1869th [Page 5] to remove it. We also cough, even if inflammatory or other tumors arising
in the mucosa of the trachea itself, which not by the coughing can be removed. It based the reflex
spasms so to say on a blind-acting mechanism, by pre-formed organization of our nervous system and how
Lotze remarks [1] correctly, is conceived as simple and practical, that man with all his thinking he
would not invent, "You ask someone how he would tackle it," says Lotze,
a foreign body to remove from the air tube? He will probably advise
more on tracheotomy (opening of the windpipe), rather than coughing. "
 The pleasant feeling, however, comes back from the relationship of those ideas out
to our sense of self.

Our superior knowledge brings us joy. - We have found that is provisionally confirmed by the
recent examples of that in the comic, at least in the first form of it (the so-called folly or
farce), a content inserted, in accordance with the above detailed secondary legislation on the one
hand a comfortable, on the other hand, an unpleasant emotional causes. That in all sorts of examples
of the comic the same law is confirmed, we will soon see if we derive the shapes. We have
now further demonstrate that even for the joke has been said above
application.

I bring an example of the first [Page 36] the simplest and most primitive
kind of jokes, from the sound of jokes, as commonly used in the so-called
Frageräthseln of Children: What costume dress best? - Harmony. -
What are the rings are not round? - The herring, etc. - In question
and answer, the two ideas presented are included.

The same can be in terms of
logical rules do not unite with each other, costume and harmony - ring
and peg are back in terms of their importance not to create the least
with each other, and by the forced context in which they are brought,
creates an uncomfortable feeling .

On the other hand, those words go in virtue of their sound similarity
(after the third standard of the association of ideas) but easily connect
to each other, and thus arouse a feeling of pleasure. As 2nd Example
I refer to a good joke of Kant, who set once in a women's society,
the playful assertion that women do not come into heaven, because
standing in the Book of Revelation written, it had been in heaven
a silence of half an hour, and such silence was, however, where women
are present, not possible.

We have two series of ideas (the biblical passage and the conclusion drawn from that), which
can not follow the logical rules to unite with each other, for that scripture is with Kant's
assertion in fact no relation.
 While actually the clown could
laugh at us that we have let him swing by Dupire, we quickly to objectivity, laugh when we
are able to, about ourselves. Wherever this objectivity does not exist, easily outweigh the slight
of self-esteem, and there is laughter instead of anger. - A second
belonging to this form: * 2 * The strange anachronism we have already
mentioned in the preliminary examples.

If we, therefore, to have to give some other examples of Raphael's
pictures the father of Abraham with an iron Karst in hand, God Apollo
with a violin, in other paintings soldiers, under the cross of Christ,
playing cards and tobacco smoking, binoculars see the hand of Roman
generals, Christ on his way to Calvary by a praying Capuchin accompanied,
so all this seems odd because we were two ideas together offered,
which can be according to the standard of simultaneity does not unite
with each other and forced by their composition produce discomfort,
while the pleasant feeling is the feeling of our self-flattering picture
of our superior knowledge.

[Page 56] * 3 The funny presentation or the burlesque and mock-heroic
* guides his discomfort upon me from the disharmony between the poetic
presentation and content.

When burlesque are serious, important and noble things in an undignified and they argued disparaging
way. As an example of Offenbach's considered "Orpheus in the Underworld" The heroic-comic to be
quite insignificant items represented by the language as important, such as in Blumauer's Aeneid
-.. As long as the burlesque and mock-heroic is not also funny (but this is usually the case) is the opposite of
the above-mentioned source flowing pain, a feeling of pleasure, which increased as in the previous
form only from the self-consciousness of superior knowledge arises. We come now to the last major form
of comedy, which we called : * IV The funny thing with the contest
of ideas or the joke .* The joke is one of the most extensive forms
of the comic and just enjoys a great popularity among the educated
and yet he is the greater part of its contents to high at any level,
by with him a pleasant feeling (usually) without the participation
of moral approbation to a halt.

The logical standards and the standards of the association of ideas
it is mainly to play with him a role, while the relations mostly on
the ethical or aesthetic standards outside the wit, in addition to
this there are, and increase the comic effect only - it is therefore
something of its own when Vischer in his first work [1] the joke.
called the comic or the reflection of the mind and points out that
the examination of wit . partly with the doctrine of the laws of association
of ideas, the essential feature of the joke falls together all other
forms of comedy opposite is the following: [1] sublime and comic and
198th p. 196.

 

 They will prove themselves to be the same as they actually exist.

To a certain extent, it is indirectly in the evidence provided:
that our belief in the necessity of approximately equal strengths of
the two opposites was entirely justified.

We shall see, but can the four forms really hold? What further evidence
is necessary, such that they can all be examples of the comic place.

Now, consider the main forms in detail.