At the early age of twenty-two he became what is usually understood by the phrase "a man of
the world." Still his moral nature could not sink into the depths without many a bitter outcry
against its wrongs. It was with no slight effort that he drowned the memory of his early home
and its good influences. During the first two or three years he occasionally had periods of
passionate remorse, and made spasmodic efforts toward better things. But they were made in
human strength, and in view of the penalties of evil, rather than because he was enamored of
the right. Some special temptation would soon sweep him away into the old life, and thus, because
of his broken promises and repeated failures, he at last lost faith in himself also, and lacked
that self-respect without which no man can cope successfully with his evil nature and an evil
world.

Living in a boarding-house, with none of the restraints and purifying influences of a good
home, he formed intimacies with brilliant but unscrupulous young men. The theatre became his
church, and at last the code of his fast, fashionable set was that which governed his life.
He avoided gross, vulgar dissipation, both because his nature revolted at it, and also on account
of his purpose to permit nothing to interfere with his prospects of advancement in business.
He meant to show Miss Bently that she had made a bad business speculation after all. Thus ambition
became the controlling element in his character; and he might have had a worse one. Moreover,
in all his moral debasement he never lost a decided tendency toward truthfulness and honesty.
He would have starved rather than touch anything that did not belong to him, nor would he allow
himself to deceive in matters of business, and it was upon these points that he specially prided
himself.

Gregory's unusual business ability, coupled with his knowledge of French and German, led to
his being sent abroad as agent of his firm. Five years of life in the materialistic and sceptical
atmosphere of continental cities confirmed the evil tendencies which were only too well developed
before he left his own land. He became what so many appear to be in our day, a practical materialist
and atheist. Present life and surroundings, present profit and pleasure, were all in all. He
ceased to recognize the existence of a soul within himself having distinct needs and interests.
His thoughts centred wholly in the comfort and pleasures of the day and in that which would
advance his ambitious schemes. His scepticism was not intellectual and in reference to the
Bible and its teachings, but practical and in reference to humanity itself. He believed that
with few exceptions men and women lived for their own profit and pleasure, and that religion
and creeds were matters of custom and fashion, or an accident of birth. Only the reverence
in which religion had been held in his early home kept him from sharing fully in the contempt
which the gentlemen he met abroad seemed to have for it. He could not altogether despise his
mother's faith, but he regarded her as a gentle enthusiast haunted by sacred traditions. The
companionships which he had formed led him to believe that unless influenced by some interested
motive a liberal- minded man of the world must of necessity outgrow these things. With the
self-deception of his kind, he thought he was broad and liberal in his views, when in reality
he had lost all distinction between truth and error, and was narrowing his mind down to things
only. Jew or Gentile, Christian or Pagan, it was becoming all one to him. Men changed their
creeds and religions with other fashions, but all looked after what they believed to be the
main chance, and he proposed to do the same.

As time passed on, however, he began to admit to himself that it was strange that in making
all things bend to his pleasure he did not secure more. He wearied of certain things. Stronger
excitements were needed to spur his jaded senses. His bets, his stakes at cards grew heavier,
his pleasures more gross, till a delicate organization so revolted at its wrongs and so chastised
him for excess that he was deterred from self-gratification in that direction.

Some men's bodies are a "means of grace" to them. Coarse dissipation is a physical impossibility,
or swift suicide in a very painful form. Young Gregory found that only in the excitements of
the mind could he hope to find continued enjoyment. His ambition to accumulate wealth and become
a brilliant business man most accorded with his tastes and training, and on these objects he
gradually concentrated all his energies, seeking only in club-rooms and places of fashionable
resort recreation from the strain of business.

He recognized that the best way to advance his own interests was to serve his employers well;
and this he did so effectually that at last he was made a partner in the business, and, with
a sense of something more like pleasure than he had known for a long time, returned to New
York and entered upon his new duties.

As we have said, among those who warmly greeted and congratulated him, was Mr. Hunting. They
gradually came to spend much time together, and business and money-getting were their favorite
themes. Gregory saw that his friend was as keen on the track of fortune as himself, and that
he had apparently been much more successful. Mr. Hunting intimated that after one reached the
charmed inner circle Wall Street was a perfect Eldorado, and seemed to take pains to drop occasional
suggestions as to how an investment shrewdly made by one with his favored point of observation
often secured in a day a larger return than a year of plodding business.

These remarks were not lost on Gregory, and the wish became very strong that he might share
in some of the splendid "hits" by which his friend was accumulating so rapidly.

Usually Mr. Hunting was very quiet and self-possessed, but one evening in May he came into
Gregory's rooms in a manner indicating not a little excitement and elation.

"Gregory!" he exclaimed, "I am going to make my fortune."

"Make your fortune! You are as rich as Croesus now."

"The past will be as nothing. I've struck a mine rather than a vein."

"It's a pity some of your friends could not share in your luck."

"Well, a few can. This is so large, and such a good thing, that I have concluded to let a few
intimates go in with me. Only all must keep very quiet about it;" and he proposed an operation
that seemed certain of success as he explained it.

Gregory concluded to put into it nearly all he had independent of his investment in the firm,
and also obtained permission to interest his partners, and to procure an interview between
them and Mr. Hunting.

The scheme looked so very plausible that they were drawn into it also; but Mr. Burnett took
Gregory aside and said: "After all, we must place a great deal of confidence in Mr. Hunting's
word in this matter. Are you satisfied that we can safely do so?"

"I would stake my life on his word in this case," said Gregory, eagerly, "and I pledge all
I have put in the firm on his truth."

This was the last flicker of his old enthusiasm and trust in anybody or anything, including
himself. With almost the skill of genius Mr. Hunting adroitly, within the limits of the law,
swindled them all, and made a vast profit out of their losses. The transaction was not generally
known, but even some of the hardened gamblers of the street said "it was too bad."

But the bank-officers with whom Burnett & Co. did business knew about it, and if it had not
been for their lenience and aid the firm would have failed. As it was, it required a struggle
of months to regain the solid ground of safety.

At first the firm was suspicious of Gregory, and disposed to blame him very much. But when
he proved to them that he had lost his private means by Hunting's treachery, and insisted on
making over to them all his right and title to the property he had invested with them, they
saw that he was no confederate of the swindler, but that he had suffered more than any of them.

He had, indeed. He had lost his ambition. The large sum of money that was to be the basis of
the immense fortune he had hoped to amass was gone. He had greatly prided himself on his business
ability, but had signalized his entrance on his new and responsible position by being overreached
and swindled in a transaction that had impoverished himself and almost ruined his partners.
He grew very misanthropic, and was quite as bitter against himself as against others. In his
estimation people were either cloaking their evil or had not been tempted, and he felt after
Hunting dropped the mask that he would never trust any one again.

It may be said, all this is very unreasonable. Yes, it is; but then people will judge the world
by their own experience of it, and some natures are more easily warped by wrong than others.
No logic can cope with feeling and prejudice. Because of his own misguided life and the wrong
he had received from others, Walter Gregory was no more able to form a correct estimate of
society than one color-blind is to judge of the tints of flowers. And yet he belonged to that
class who claim pre- eminently to know the world. Because he thought he knew it so well he
hated and despised it, and himself as part of it.

The months that followed his great and sudden downfall dragged their slow length along. He
worked early and late, without thought of sparing himself. If he could only see what the firm
had lost through him made good, he did not care what became of himself. Why should he? There
was little in the present to interest him, and the future looked, in his depressed, morbid
state, as monotonous and barren as the sands of a desert. Seemingly, he had exhausted life,
and it had lost all zest for him.

But while his power to enjoy had gone, not so his power to suffer. His conscience was uneasy,
and told him in a vague way that something was wrong. Reason, or, more correctly speaking,
instinct, condemned his life as a wretched blunder. He had lived for his own enjoyment, and
now, when but half through life, what was there for him to enjoy?

As in increasing weakness he dragged himself to the office on a sultry September day, the thought
occurred to him that the end was nearer than he expected.

"Let it come," he said, bitterly. "Why should I live?"

The thought of his early home recurred to him with increasing frequency, and he had a growing
desire to visit it before his strength failed utterly. Therefore it was with a certain melancholy
pleasure that he found himself at liberty, through the kindness of his partners, to make this
visit, and at the season, too, when his boyish memories of the place, like the foliage, would
be most varied and vivid.

CHAPTER II

OPENING A CHESTNUT BURR

If the reader could imagine a man visiting his own grave, he might obtain some idea of Walter
Gregory's feelings as he took the boat which would land him not far from his early home. And
yet, so different was he from the boy who had left that home fifteen years before, that it
was almost the same as if he were visiting the grave of a brother who had died in youth.

Though the day was mild, a fresh bracing wind blew from the west. Shielding himself from this
on the after-deck, he half reclined, on account of his weakness, in a position from which he
could see the shores and passing vessels upon the river. The swift gliding motion, the beautiful
and familiar scenery, the sense of freedom from routine work, and the crisp, pure air, that
seemed like a delicate wine, all combined to form a mystic lever that began to lift his heart
out of the depths of despondency.

A storm had passed away, leaving not a trace. The October sun shone in undimmed splendor, and
all nature appeared to rejoice in its light. The waves with their silver crests seemed chasing
one another in mad glee. The sailing vessels, as they tacked to and fro across the river under
the stiff western breeze, made the water foam about their blunt prows, and the white-winged
gulls wheeled in graceful circles overhead. There was a sense of movement and life that was
contagious. Gregory's dull eyes kindled with something like interest, and then he thought:
"The storm lowered over these sunny shores yesterday. The gloom of night rested upon these
waters but a few hours since. Why is it that nature can smile and be glad the moment the shadow
passes and I cannot? Is there no sunlight for the soul? I seem as if entering a cave, that
grows colder and darker at every step, and no gleam shines at the further end, indicating that
I may pass through it and out into the light again."

Thus letting his fancy wander at will, at times half-dreaming and half-waking, he passed the
hours that elapsed before the boat touched at a point in the Highlands of the Hudson, his destination.
Making a better dinner than he had enjoyed for a long time, and feeling stronger than for weeks
before, he started for the place that now, of all the world, had for him the greatest attraction.

There was no marked change in the foliage as yet, but only a deepening of color, like a flush
on the cheek of beauty. As he was driving along the familiar road, farm-house and grove, and
even tree, rock, and thicket, began to greet him as with the faces of old friends. At last
he saw, nestling in a wild, picturesque valley, the quaint outline of his former home. His
heart yearned toward it, and he felt that next to his mother's face no other object could be
so welcome.

"Slower, please," he said to the driver.

Though his eyes were moist, and at times dim with tears, not a feature in the scene escaped
him. When near the gateway he sprung out with a lightness that he would not have believed possible
the day before, and said, "Come for me at five."

For a little time he stood leaning on the gate. Two children were playing on the lawn, and
it almost seemed to him that the elder, a boy of about ten years, might be himself, and he
a passing stranger, who had merely stopped to look at the pretty scene.

"Oh that I were a boy like that one there! Oh that I were here again as of old!" he sighed.
"How unchanged it all is, and I so changed! It seems as if the past were mocking me. That must
be I there playing with my little sister. Mother must be sewing in her cheery south room, and
father surely is taking his after-dinner nap in the library. Can it be that they are all dead
save me? and that this is but a beautiful mirage?"

He felt that he could not meet any one until he became more composed, and so passed on up the
valley. Before turning away he noticed that a lady come out at the front door. The children
joined her, and they started for a walk.

Looking wistfully on either side, Gregory soon came to a point where the orchard extended to
the road. A well-remembered fall pippin tree hung its laden boughs over the fence, and the
fruit looked so ripe and golden in the slanting rays of October sunlight that he determined
to try one of the apples and see if it tasted as of old. As he climbed upon the wall a loose
stone fell clattering down and rolled into the road. He did not notice this, but an old man
dozing in the porch of a little house opposite did. As Gregory reached up his cane to detach
from its spray a great, yellow-cheeked fellow, his hand was arrested, and he was almost startled
off his perch by such a volley of oaths as shocked even his hardened ears. Turning gingerly
around so as not to lose his footing, he faced this masked battery that had opened so unexpectedly
upon him, and saw a white-haired old man balancing himself on one crutch and brandishing the
other at him.

"Stop knockin' down that wall and fillin! the road with stuns, you--," shouted the venerable
man, in tones that indicated anything but the calmness of age. "Let John Walton's apples alone,
you--thief. What do you mean by robbin' in broad daylight, right under a man's nose?"

Gregory saw that he had a character to deal with, and, to divert his mind from thoughts that
were growing too painful, determined to draw the old man out; so he said, "Is not taking things
so openly a rather honest way of robbing?"

"Git down, I tell yer," cried the guardian of the orchard.

"Suppose 'tis, it's robbin' arter all. So now move on, and none of yer cussed impudence."

"But you call them John Walton's apples," said Gregory, eating one with provoking coolness.
"What have you got to do with them? and why should you care?"

"Now look here, stranger, you're an infernal mean cuss to ask such questions. Ain't John Walton
my neighbor? and a good neighbor, too? D'ye suppose a well-meanin' man like myself would stand
by and see a neighbor robbed? and of all others, John Walton? Don't you know that robbin' a
good man brings bad luck, you thunderin' fool?"

"But I've always had bad luck, so I needn't stop on that account," retorted Gregory, from the
fence.

"I believe it, and you allers will," vociferated the old man, "and I'll tell yer why. I know
from the cut of yer jib that yer've allers been eatin' forbidden fruit. If yer lived now a
good square life like 'Squire Walton and me, you'd have no reason to complain of yer luck.
If I could get a clip at yer with this crutch I'd give yer suthin' else to complain of. If
yer had any decency yer wouldn't stand there a jibin' at a lame old man."

Gregory took off his hat with a polite bow and said: "I beg your pardon; I was under the impression
that you were doing the 'cussing.' I shall come and see you soon, for somehow it does me good
to have you swear at me. I only wish I had as good a friend in the world as Mr. Walton has
in you." With these words he sprung from the fence on the orchard side, and made his way to
the hill behind the Walton residence, leaving the old man mumbling and muttering in a very
profane manner.

"Like enough it was somebody visitin' at the Walton's, and I've made a--fool of myself after
all. What's worse, that poor little Miss Eulie will hear I've been swearin' agin, and there'll
be another awful prayin' time. What a cussed old fool I be, to promise to quit swearin'! I
know I can't. What's the good o' stoppin'? It's inside, and might as well come out. The Lord
knows I don't mean no disrespect to Him. It's only one of my ways. He knows well enough that
I'm a good neighbor, and what's the harm in a little cussin'?" and so the strange old man talked
on to himself in the intervals between long pulls at his pipe.

By the time Gregory reached the top of the hill his strength was quite exhausted, and, panting,
he sat down on the sunny side of a thicket of cedars, for the late afternoon was growing chilly.
Beneath him lay the one oasis in a desert world.

With an indescribable blending of pleasure and pain, he found himself tracing with his eye
every well-remembered path, and marking every familiar object.

Not a breath of air was stirring, and it would seem that Nature was seeking to impart to his
perturbed spirit, full of the restless movement of city life and the inevitable disquiet of
sin, something of her own calmness and peace. The only sounds he heard seemed a part of nature's
silence,--the tinkle of cowbells, the slumberous monotone of water as it fell over the dam,
the grating notes of a katydid, rendered hoarse by recent cool nights, in a shady ravine near
by, and a black cricket chirping at the edge of the rock on which he sat-- these were all.
And yet the sounds, though not heard for years, seemed as familiar as the mother's lullaby
that puts a child to sleep, and a delicious sense of restfulness stole into his heart. The
world in which he had so greatly sinned and suffered might be another planet, it seemed so
far away. Could it be that in a few short hours he had escaped out of the hurry and grind of
New York into this sheltered nook? Why had he not come before? Here was the remedy for soul
and body, if any existed.

Not a person was visible on the place, and it seemed that it might thus have been awaiting
him in all his absence, and that now he had only to go and take possession.

"So our home in heaven awaits us, mother used to say," he thought, "while we are such willing
exiles from it. I would give all the world to believe as she did."

He found that the place so inseparably associated with his mother brought back her teachings,
which he had so often tried to forget.

"I wish I might bury myself here, away from the world," he muttered, "for it has only cheated
and lied to me from first to last. Everything deceived me, and turned out differently from
what I expected. These loved old scenes are true and unchanged, and smile upon me now as when
I was here a happy boy. Would to heaven I might never leave them again!"

He was startled out of his revery by the sharp bark of a squirrel that ran chattering and whisking
its tail in great excitement from limb to limb in a clump of chestnuts near. The crackling
of a twig betrayed to Gregory the cause of its alarm, for through an opening in the thicket
he saw the lady who had started out for a walk with the children while he was leaning on the
front gate.

Shrinking further behind the cedars he proposed to reconnoitre a little before making himself
known. He observed that she was attired in a dark, close-fitting costume suitable for rambling
among the hills. At first he thought that she was pretty, and then that she was not. His quick,
critical eye detected that her features were not regular, that her profile was not classic.
It was only the rich glow of exercise and the jaunty gypsy hat that had given the first impression
of something like beauty. In her right hand, which was ungloved, she daintily held, by its
short stem, a chestnut burr which the squirrel in its alarm had dropped, and now, in its own
shrill vernacular, was scolding about so vociferously. She was glancing around for some means
to break it open, and Gregory had scarcely time to notice her fine dark eyes, when, as if remembering
the rock on which he had been sitting, she advanced toward him with a step so quick and elastic
that he envied her vigor.

Further concealment was now impossible. Therefore with easy politeness he stepped forward and
said: "Let me open the burr for you, Miss Walton."

She started violently at the sound of his voice, and for a moment reminded him of a frightened
bird on the eve of flight.

"Pardon me for so alarming you," he hastened to say, "and also pardon a seeming stranger for
addressing you informally. My name may not be unknown to you, although I am in person. It is
Walter Gregory."

She had been so startled that she could not immediately recover herself, and still stood regarding
him doubtfully, although with manner more assured.

"Come," said he, smiling and advancing toward her with the quiet assurance of a society man.
"Let me open the burr for you, and you shall take its contents in confirmation of what I say.
If I find sound chestnuts in it, let them be a token that I am not misrepresenting myself.
If my test fails, then you may justly ask for better credentials."

Half smiling, and quite satisfied from his words and appearance in advance, she extended the
burr toward him. But as she did so it parted from the stem, and would have fallen to the ground
had he not, with his ungloved hand, caught the prickly thing. His hand was as white and soft
as hers, and the sharp spines stung him sorely, yet he permitted no sign of pain to appear
upon his face.

"Ah!" exclaimed Miss Walton, "I fear it hurt you."

He looked up humorously and said, "An augury is a solemn affair, and no disrespect must be
allowed to nature's oracle, which in this case is a chestnut burr;" and he speedily opened it.

"There!" he said, triumphantly, "what more could you ask? Here are two solid, plump chestnuts,
with only a false, empty form of shell between them. And here, like the solid nuts, are two
people entitled to each other's acquaintance, with only the false formality of an introduction,
like the empty shell, keeping them apart. Since no mutual friend is present to introduce us,
has not Nature taken upon herself the office through this chestnut burr? But perhaps I should
further Nature's efforts by giving you my card."

As Miss Walton regained composure, she soon proved to Gregory that she was not merely a shy
country girl. At the close of his rather long and fanciful speech she said, genially, extending
her hand: "My love for Nature is unbounded, Mr. Gregory, and the introduction you have so happily
obtained from her weighs more with me than any other that you could have had. Let me welcome
you to your own home, as it were. But see, your hand is bleeding, where the burr pricked you.
Is this an omen, also? If our first meeting brings bloody wounds, I fear you will shun further
acquaintance."

There was a spice of bitterness in Gregory's laugh, as he said: "People don't often die of
such wounds. But it is a little odd that in taking your hand I should stain it with my blood.
I am inclined to drop the burr after all, and base all my claims on my practical visiting card.
You may come to look upon the burr as a warning, rather than an introduction, and order me
off the premises."

"It was an omen of your choice," replied Miss Walton, laughing. "You have more to fear from
it than I. If you will venture to stay you shall be most welcome. Indeed, it almost seems that
you have a better right here than we, and your name has been so often heard that you are no
stranger. I know father will be very glad to see you, for he often speaks of you, and wonders
if you are like his old friend, the dearest one, I think, he ever had. How long have you been
here?"

"Well, I have been wandering about the place much of the afternoon."

"I need not ask you why you did not come in at once," she said, gently. "Seeing your old home
after so long an absence is like meeting some dear friend. One naturally wishes to be alone
for a time. But now I hope you will go home with me."

He was surprised at her delicate appreciation of his feelings, and gave her a quick pleased
look, saying: "Nature has taught you to be a good interpreter, Miss Walton. You are right.
The memories of the old place were a little too much for me at first, and I did not know that
those whom I met would appreciate my feelings so delicately."

The two children now appeared, running around the brow of the hill, the boy calling in great
excitement: "Aunt Annie, oh! Aunt Annie, we've found a squirrel-hole. We chased him into it.
Can't Susie sit by the hole and keep him in, while I go for a spade to dig him out?"

Then they saw the unlooked-for stranger, who at once rivalled the squirrel-hole in interest,
and with slower steps, and curious glances, they approached.

"These are my sister's children," said Miss Walton, simply.

Gregory kindly took the boy by the hand, and kissed the little girl, who looked half-frightened
and half-pleased, as a very little maiden should, while she rubbed the cheek that his mustache
had tickled.

"Do you think we can get the squirrel, Aunt Annie?" again asked the boy.

"Do you think it would be right, Johnny, if you could?" she asked. "Suppose you were the squirrel
in the hole, and one big monster, like Susie here, should sit by the door, and you heard another
big monster say, 'Wait till I get something to tear open his house with.' How would you feel?"

"I won't keep the poor little squirrel in his hole," said sympathetic Susie.

But the boy's brow contracted, and he said, sternly: "Squirrels are nothing but robbers, and
their holes are robbers' dens. They take half our nuts every year."

Miss Walton looked significantly at Gregory, and laughed, saying, "There it is, you see, man
and woman."

A momentary shadow crossed his face, and he said, abruptly, "I hope Susie will be as kindly
in coming years."

Miss Walton looked at him curiously as they began to descend the hill to the house. She evidently
did not understand his remark, coupled with his manner.

As they approached the barn there was great excitement among the poultry. Passing round its
angle, Walter saw coming toward them a quaint-looking old woman, in what appeared to be a white
scalloped nightcap. She had a pan of corn in her hand, and was attended by a retinue that would
have rejoiced an epicure's heart. Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, and Guinea fowls thronged
around and after her with an intentness on the grain and a disregard of one another's rights
and feelings that reminded one unpleasantly of political aspirants just after a Presidential
election. Johnny made a dive for an old gobbler, and the great red-wattled bird dropped his
wings and seemed inclined to show fight, but a reluctant armistice was brought about between
them by the old woman screaming: "Maister Johnny, an' ye let not the fowls alone ye'll ha'
na apples roast the night."

Susie clung timidly to her aunty's side as they passed through these clamorous candidates for
holiday honors, and the young lady said, kindly, "You have a large family to look after, Zibbie,
but I'm afraid we'll lessen it every day now."

"Indeed, an' ye will, and it goes agin the grain to wring the necks of them that I've nursed
from the shell," said the old woman, rather sharply.

"It must be a great trial to your feelings," said Miss Walton, laughing; "but what would you
have us do with them, Zibbie? You don't need them all for pets."

Before Zibbie could answer, an old gentleman in a low buggy drove into the large door-yard,
and the children bounded toward him, screaming, "Grandpa."

A colored man took the horse, and Mr. Walton, with a briskness that one would not expect at
his advanced age, came toward them.

He was a noble-looking old man, with hair and beard as white as snow, and with the stately
manners of the old school. When he learned who Gregory was he greeted him with a cordiality
that was so genuine as to compel the cynical man of the world to feel its truth.

Mr. Walton's eyes were turned so often and wistfully on his face that Gregory was embarrassed.

"I was looking for my friend," said the old gentleman, in a husky voice, turning hastily away
to hide his feeling. "You strongly remind me of him; and yet--" But he never finished the sentence.

Gregory well understood the "and yet," and in bitterness of soul remembered that his father
had been a good man, but that the impress of goodness could not rest on his face.

He had now grown very weary, and gave evidence of it.

"Mr. Gregory, you look ill," said Miss Walton, hastily.

"I am not well," he said, "and have not been for a long time. Perhaps I am going beyond my
strength to-day."

In a moment they were all solicitude. The driver, who then appeared according to his instructions,
was posted back to the hotel for Mr. Gregory's luggage, Mr. Walton saying, with hearty emphasis
that removed every scruple, "This must be your home, sir, as long as you can remain with us,
as truly as ever it was."

A little later he found himself in the "spare room," on whose state he had rarely intruded
when a boy. Jeff, the colored man, had kindled a cheery wood fire on the ample hearth, and,
too exhausted even to think, Gregory sank back in a great easy-chair with the blessed sense
of the storm-tossed on reaching a quiet haven.

CHAPTER III

MORBID BROODING

To the millions who are suffering in mind or body there certainly come in this world moments
of repose, when pain ceases; and the respite seems so delicious in contrast that it may well
suggest the "rest that remaineth." Thinking of neither the past nor the future, Gregory for
a little time gave himself up to the sense of present and luxurious comfort. With closed eyes
and mind almost as quiet as his motionless body, he let the moments pass, feeling dimly that
he would ask no better heaven than the eternal continuance of this painless, half- dreaming
lethargy.

He was soon aroused, however, by a knocking at the door, and a middle- aged servant placed
before him a tempting plate of Albert biscuit and a glass of home-made currant wine of indefinite
age. The quaint and dainty little lunch caught his appetite as exactly as if manna had fallen
adapted to his need; but it soon stimulated him out of his condition of partial non-existence.
With returning consciousness of the necessity of living and acting came the strong desire to
spend as much of his vacation as possible in his old home, and he determined to avail himself
of Mr. Walton's invitation to the utmost limit that etiquette would permit.

His awakened mind gave but little thought to his entertainers, and he did not anticipate much
pleasure from their society. He was satisfied that they were refined, cultivated people, with
whom he could be as much at ease as would be possible in any companionship, but he hoped and
proposed to spend the most of his time alone in wandering amid old scenes and brooding over
the past. The morbid mind is ever full of unnatural contradictions, and he found a melancholy
pleasure in shutting his eyes to the future and recalling the time when he had been happy and
hopeful. In his egotism he found more that interested him in his past and vanished self than
in the surrounding world. Evil and ill-health had so enfeebled his body, narrowed his mind,
and blurred the future, that his best solace seemed a vain and sentimental recalling of the
crude yet comparatively happy period of childhood.

This is sorry progress. A man must indeed have lived radically wrong when he looks backward
for the best of his life. Gray-haired Mr. Walton was looking forward. Gregory's habit of self-pleasing--of
acting according to his mood--was too deeply seated to permit even the thought of returning
the hospitality he hoped to enjoy by a cordial effort on his part to prove himself an agreeable
guest. Polite he ever would be, for he had the instincts and training of a gentleman, in society's
interpretation of the word, but he had lost the power to feel a generous solicitude for the
feelings and happiness of others. Indeed, he rather took a cynical pleasure in discovering
defects in the character of those around him, and in learning that their seeming enjoyment
of life was but hollow and partial. Conscious of being evil himself, he liked to think others
were not much better, or would not be if tempted. Therefore, with a gloomy scepticism, he questioned
all the seeming happiness and goodness he saw. "It is either unreal or untried," he was wont
to say bitterly.

About seven o'clock, Hannah, the waitress, again appeared, saying: "Supper is ready, but the
ladies beg you will not come down unless you feel able. I can bring up your tea if you wish."

Thinking first and only of self, he at once decided not to go down. He felt sufficiently rested
and revived, but was in no mood for commonplace talk to comparative strangers. His cosey chair,
glowing fire, and listless ease were much better than noisy children, inquisitive ladies, and
the unconscious reproach of Mr. Walton's face, as he would look in vain for the lineaments
of his lost friend. Therefore he said, suavely: "Please say to the ladies that I am so wearied
that I should make but a dull companion, and so for their sakes, as well as my own, had better
not leave my room this evening."

It is the perfection of art in selfishness to make it appear as if you were thinking only of
others. This was the design of Walter's polite message. Soon a bit of tender steak, a roast
potato, tea, and toast were smoking appetizingly beside him, and he congratulated himself that
he had escaped the bore of company for one evening.

Notwithstanding his misanthropy and cherished desolation the supper was so inviting that he
was tempted to partake of it heartily. Then incasing himself in his ample dressing-gown he
placed his slippered feet on the fender before a cheery fire, lighted a choice Havana, and
proceeded to be miserable after the fashion that indulged misery often affects.

Hannah quietly removed the tea-tray, and Mr. Walton came up and courteously inquired if there
was anything that would add to his guest's comfort.

"After a few hours of rest and quiet I hope I shall be able to make a better return for your
hospitality," Gregory rejoined, with equal politeness.

"Oh, do not feel under any obligation to exert yourself," said kind Mr. Walton. "In order to
derive full benefit from your vacation, you must simply rest and follow your moods."

This view of the case suited Gregory exactly, and the prospect of a visit at his old home grew
still more inviting. When he was left alone, he gave himself up wholly to the memories of the past.

At first it was with a pleasurable pain that he recalled his former life. With an imagination
naturally strong he lived it all over again, from the date of his first recollections. In the
curling flames and glowing coals on the hearth a panorama passed before him. He saw a joyous
child, a light-hearted boy, and a sanguine youth, with the shifting and familiar scenery of
well-remembered experience. Time softened the pictures, and the harsh, rough outlines which
exist in every truthful portraiture of life were lost in the haze of distance. The gentle but
steady light of mother love, and through her a pale, half-recognized reflection of the love
of God, illumined all those years; and his father's strong, quiet affection made a background
anything but dark. He had been naturally what is termed a very good boy, full of generous impulses.
There had been no lack of ordinary waywardness or of the faults of youth, but they showed a
tendency to yield readily to the correcting influence of love. Good impulses, however, are
not principles, and may give way to stronger impulses of evil. If the influences of his early
home had alone followed him, he would not now be moodily recalling the past as the exiled convict
might watch the shores of his native land recede.

And then, as in his prolonged revery the fire burned low, and the ruddy coals turned to ashes,
the past faded into distance, and his present life, dull and leaden, rose before him, and from
regretful memories that were not wholly painful he passed to that bitterness of feeling which
ever comes when hope is giving place to despair.

The fire flickered out and died, his head drooped lower and lower, while the brooding frown
upon his brow darkened almost into a scowl. Outwardly he made a sad picture for a young man
in the prime of life, but to Him who looks at the attitude of the soul, what but unutterable
love kept him from appearing absolutely revolting?

Suddenly, like light breaking into a vault a few notes of prelude were struck upon the piano
in the parlor below, and a sweet voice, softened by distance sung:

     "Rock of ages, cleft for me,
      let me hide myself in thee,"

How often he had heard the familiar words and music in that same home! They seemed to crown
and complete all the memories of the place, but they reminded him more clearly than ever before
that its most inseparable associations were holy, hopeful, and suggestive of a faith that he
seemed to have lost as utterly as if it had been a gem dropped into the ocean.

He had lived in foreign lands far from his birthplace, but the purpose to return ever dwelt
pleasurably in his mind. But how could he cross the gulf that yawned between him and the faith
of his childhood? Was there really anything beyond that gulf save what the credulous imagination
had created? Instinctively he felt that there was, for he was honest enough with himself to
remember that his scepticism was the result of an evil life and the influence of an unbelieving
world, rather than the outcome of patient investigation. The wish was father to the thought.

Yet sweet, unfaltering, and clear as the voice of faith ever should be, the hymn went forward
in the room below, his memory supplying the well-known words that were lost from remoteness:--

     "When mine eyelids close in death,
      When I soar to worlds unknown."

"Oh, when!" he exclaimed, bitterly. "What shall be my experience then? If I continue to fail
in health as I have of late I shall know cursedly soon. That must be Miss Walton singing. Though
she does not realize it, to me this is almost as cruel mockery as if an angel sang at the gates
of hell."

The music ceased, and the monotone of one reading followed.

"Family prayers as of old," he muttered. "How everything conspires to- day to bring my home-life
back again! and yet there is a fatal lack of something that is harder to endure than the absence
of my own kindred and vanished youth. I doubt whether I can stay here long after all. Will
not the mocking fable of Tantalus be repeated constantly, as I see others drinking daily at
a fountain which though apparently so near is ever beyond my reach?"

Shivering with the chill of the night and the deeper chill at heart, he retired to troubled sleep.

CHAPTER IV

HOW MISS WALTON MANAGED PEOPLE

Rest, and the sunny light and bracing air of the following morning, banished much of Gregory's
moodiness, and he descended the stairs proposing to dismiss painful thoughts and get what comfort
and semblance of enjoyment he could out of the passing hours. Mr. Walton met him cordially--indeed
with almost fatherly solicitude--and led him at once to the dining-room, where an inviting
breakfast awaited them. Miss Walton also was genial, and introduced Miss Eulalia Morton, a
maiden sister of her mother. Miss Eulie, as she was familiarly called, was a pale, delicate
little lady, with a face sweetened rather than hardened and imbittered by time. If, as some
believe, the flesh and the spirit, the soul and the body, are ever at variance, she gave the
impression at first glance that the body was getting the worst of the conflict. But in truth
the faintest thoughts of strife seemed to have no association with her whatever. She appeared
so light and aerial that one could imagine her flying over the rough places of life, and vanishing
when any one opposed her.

Miss Walton reversed all this, for she was decidedly substantial. She was of only medium height,
but a fine figure made her appear taller than she was. She immediately gave the impression
of power and reserve force. You felt this in her quick, elastic step, saw it in her decided
though not abrupt movements, and heard it in her tone. Even the nonchalant Mr. Gregory could
not ignore her in his customary polite manner, though quiet refinement and peculiar unobtrusiveness
seemed her characteristics. She won attention, not because she sought it, nor on the ground
of eccentricities, but because of her intense vitality. From her dark eyes a close observer
might catch glimpses of a quick, active mind, an eager spirit, and--well, perhaps a passionate
temper. Though chastened and subdued, she ever gave the impression of power to those who came
to know her well. In certain ways, as they interpreted her, people acknowledged this force
of character. Some spoke of her as very lively, others as exceedingly energetic and willing
to enter on any good work. Some thought her ambitious, else why was she so prominent in church
matters, and so ready to visit the sick and poor? They could explain this in but one way. And
some looked knowingly at each other and said: "I wonder if she is always as smiling and sweet
as when in society;" and then followed shaking of heads which intimated, "Look out for sudden
gusts."

Again, as in simple morning wrapper she turned to greet Gregory, she gave him the impression
of something like beauty. But his taste, rendered critical by much observation both at home
and abroad, at once told him that he was mistaken.

"The expression is well enough," he thought, "but she has not a single perfect feature--not
one that an artist would copy, except perhaps the eyes, and even they are not soft and Madonna-like."

He had a sybarite's eye for beauty, and an intense admiration for it. At the same time he was
too intellectual to be satisfied with the mere sensuous type. And yet, when he decided that
a woman was not pretty, she ceased to interest him. His exacting taste required no small degree
of outward perfection crowned by ready wit and society polish. With those so endowed he had
frequently amused himself in New York and Paris by a passing flirtation since the politic Miss
Bently had made him a sceptic in regard to women. All his intercourse with society had confirmed
his cynicism. The most beautiful and brilliant in the drawing-rooms were seldom the best. He
flattered them to their faces and sneered at them in his heart. Therefore his attentions were
merely of a nature to excite their vanity, stimulated by much incense from other sources. He
saw this plainly manifested trait, which he contributed to develop, and despised it. He also
saw that many were as eager for a good match as ever the adored Miss Bently had been, and that,
while they liked his compliments, they cared not for him. Why should they? Insincere and selfish
himself, why should he expect to awaken better feelings on the part of those who were anything
but unsophisticated, and from knowledge of the world could gauge him at his true worth? Not
even a sentimental girl would show her heart to such a man. And yet with the blind egotism
of selfishness he smiled grimly at their apparent heartlessness and said, "Such is woman."

At the same time it must in justice be said that he despised men in general quite as sincerely.
"Human nature is wretched stuff," had come to be the first article in his creed.

In regard to Miss Walton he concluded: "She is a goodish girl, more of a lady than the average,
pious and orthodox, an excellent housekeeper, and a great comfort to her father, no doubt.
She is safe from her very plainness, though confident, of course, that she could resist temptation
and be a saint under all circumstances;" and he dismissed her from his mind with a sort of
inward groan and protest against the necessity of making himself agreeable to her during his visit.

He did not think it worth while to disguise his face as he made these brief critical observations,
and quick-witted Annie gathered something of the drift of his thoughts, as she stole a few
glances at him from behind the coffee-urn. It piqued her pride a little, and she was disappointed
in him, for she had hoped for a pleasant addition to their society for a time. But she was
so supremely indifferent to him, and had so much to fill her thoughts and days, that his slight
promise to prove an agreeable visitor caused but momentary annoyance. Yet the glimmer of a
smile flitted across her face as she thought: "He may find himself slightly mistaken in me,
after all. His face seems to say, 'No doubt she is a good young woman, and well enough for
this slow country place, but she has no beauty, no style.' I think I can manage to disturb
the even current of his vanity, if his visit is long enough, and he shall learn at least that
I shall not gape admiringly at his artificial metropolitan airs."

Her manner toward Gregory remained full of kindness and grace, but she made no effort to secure
his attention and engage him in conversation, as he had feared she would do. She acted as if
she were accustomed to see such persons as himself at her father's breakfast-table every morning;
and, though habitually wrapped up in his own personality, he soon became dimly conscious that
her course toward him was not what he had expected.

Miss Eulie was all solicitude in view of his character of invalid; and the children looked
at him with curious eyes and growing disapprobation. There was nothing in him to secure their
instinctive friendship, and he made no effort to win their sympathies.

The morning meal began with a reverent looking to heaven for God's blessing on the gifts which
were acknowledged as coming from Him; and even Gregory was compelled to admit that the brief
rite did not appear like a careless signing of the cross, or a shrivelled form from which spirit
and meaning had departed, but a sincere expression of loving trust and gratitude.

During the greater part of the meal, Mr. Walton dwelt on the circumstances that had led to
his friendship with Gregory's father, but at last the conversation flagged a little, since
the young man made so slight effort to maintain it.

Suddenly Mr. Walton turned to his daughter and said, "By the way, Annie, you have not told
me where you found Mr. Gregory, for my impression is that you brought him down from the hills."

"I was about to say that I found him in a chestnut burr," replied Annie, with a twinkle in
her eye. "At least I found a stranger by the cedar thicket, and he proved from a chestnut burr
who he was, and his right to acquaintance, with a better logic than I supposed him capable of."

"Indeed?" asked Gregory, quickly, feeling the prick of her last words; "on what grounds were
you led to estimate my logic so slightingly?"

"On merely general grounds; but you see I am open to all evidence in your favor. City life
no doubt has great advantages, but it also has greater drawbacks."

"What are they?"

"I cannot think of them all now. Suffice it to say that if you had always lived in the city
you could not have interpreted a chestnut burr so gracefully. Many there seem to forget Nature's
lore."

"But may they not learn other things more valuable?"

Miss Walton shook her head, and said, with a laugh: "An ignorant exhorter once stated to his
little schoolhouse audience that Paul was brought up at the foot of the hill Gamaliel. I almost
wish he were right, for I should have had more confidence in the teachings of the hill than
in those of the narrow-minded Jewish Rabbi."

"And yet you regard Paul as the very chief of the apostles."

"He became such after he was taught of Him who teaches through the hills and nature generally."

"My daughter is an enthusiast for nature," remarked Mr. Walton.

"If the people are the same as when I was here a boy, the hills have not taught the majority
very much," said Gregory, with a French shrug.

"Many of them have a better wisdom than you think," answered Annie, quietly.

"In what does it consist?"

"Well, for one thing they know how to enjoy life and add to the enjoyment of others."

Gregory looked at her keenly for a moment, but saw nothing to lead him to think that she was
speaking on other than general principles; but he said, a little moodily, as they rose from
the table, "That certainly is a better wisdom than is usually attained in either city or country."

"It is not our custom to make company of our friends," said Mr. Walton, cordially. "We hope
you will feel completely at home, and come and go as you like, and do just what you find agreeable.
We dine at two, and have an early supper on account of the children. There are one or two fair
saddle horses on the place, but if you do not feel strong enough to ride, Annie can drive you
out, and I assure you she is at home in the management of a horse."

"Yes, indeed," echoed the little boy. "Aunt Annie can manage anything or anybody."

"That is a remarkable power," said Gregory, with an amused look and a side glance at the young
girl. "How does she do it?"

"Oh, I don't know," replied the boy; "she makes them love her, and then they want to do as
she says."

A momentary wrathful gleam shot from Annie's eyes at her indiscreet little champion, but with
heightened color she joined in the laugh that followed.

Gregory had the ill grace to say with a sort of mocking gallantry, as he bowed himself out,
"It must be delightful to be managed on such terms."

CHAPTER V

WAS IT AN ACCIDENT?

Putting on a light overcoat, for the morning air was sharp and bracing, Gregory soon found
himself in the old square garden. Though its glory was decidedly on the wane, it was as yet
unnipped by the frost It had a neatness and an order of its own that were quite unlike those
where nature is in entire subordination to art. Indeed it looked very much as he remembered
it in the past, and he welcomed its unchanged aspect. He strolled to many other remembered
boyish haunts, and it seemed that the very lichens and mosses grew in the same places as of
old, and that nature had stood still and awaited his return.

And yet every familiar object chided him for being so changed, and he began to find more of
pain than pleasure as this contrast between what he had been and what he might have been was
constantly forced upon him.

"Oh that I had never left this place!" he exclaimed, bitterly: "It would have been better to
stay here and drudge as a day laborer. What has that career out in the world to which I looked
forward so ardently amounted to? The present is disappointment and self-disgust, the future
an indefinite region of fears and forebodings, and even the happy past is becoming a bitter
mockery by reminding me of what can never be again."

Wearied and despondent, he moodily returned to the house and threw himself on a lounge in the
parlor. A smouldering wood fire upon the hearth softened the air to summer temperature. The
heat was grateful to his chilled, bloodless body, and gave him a luxurious sense of physical
comfort, and he muttered: "I had about resolved to leave this place with its memories that
are growing into torment, but I suppose it would be the same anywhere else. I am too weak and
ill to face new scenes and discomfort. A little animal enjoyment and bodily respite from pain
seem about all that is left to me of existence, and I think I can find these here better than
elsewhere. If I am expected, however, to fall under the management of the daughter of the house
on the terms blurted out by that fidgety nephew of hers, I will fly for my life. A plague on
him! His restlessness makes me nervous! If I could endure a child at all, the blue-eyed little
girl would make a pretty toy."

Sounds from the sitting-room behind the parlor now caught his attention, and listening he soon
became aware that Miss Walton was teaching the children. "She has just the voice for a 'schoolmarm,'"
he thought--"quick, clear-cut, and decided."

If he had not given way to unreasonable prejudice he might also have noted that there was nothing
harsh or querulous in it.

"With her management and love of nature, she doubtless thinks herself the personification of
goodness. I suppose I shall be well lectured before I get away. I had a foretaste of it this
morning. 'Drawbacks of city life,' forsooth! She no doubt regards me as a result of these disadvantages.
But if she should come to deem it her mission to convert or reform me, then will be lost my
small remnant of peace and comfort."

But weakness and weariness soon inclined him to sleep. Miss Walton's voice sounded far away.
Then it passed into his dream as that of Miss Bently chiding him affectedly for his wayward
tendencies; again it was explaining that conscientious young lady's "sense of duty" in view
of Mr. Grobb's offer, and even in his sleep his face darkened with pain and wrath.

Just then, school hours being over, Miss Walton came into the parlor. For a moment, as she
stood by the fire, she did not notice its unconscious occupant. Then, seeing him, she was about
to leave the room noiselessly, when the expression of his face arrested her steps.

If Annie Walton's eyes suggested the probability of "sudden gusts," they also at times announced
a warm, kind heart, for as she looked at him now her face instantly softened to pity.

"Good he is not," she thought, "but he evidently suffers in his evil. Something is blighting
his life, and what can blight a life save evil? Perhaps I had better change my proposed crusade
against his vanity and cynicism to a kind, sisterly effort toward making him a better and therefore
a happier man. It will soon come out in conversation that I have long been the same as engaged
to another, and this will relieve me of absurd suspicions of designs upon him. If I could win
a friendly confidence on his part, I'm sure I could tell him some wholesome truths, for even
an enemy could scarcely look on that face without relenting."

There was nothing slow or cumbrous about Annie. These thoughts had flashed through her mind
during the brief moment in which her eyes softened from surprise into sympathy as they caught
the expression of Gregory's face. Then, fearing to disturb him, with silent tread she passed
out to her wonted morning duties.

How seemingly accidental was that visit to the parlor! Its motive indefinite and forgotten.
Apparently it was but a trivial episode of an uneventful day, involving no greater catastrophe
than the momentary rousing of a sleeper who would doze again. But what day can we with certainty
call uneventful? and what episode trivial? Those half- aimless, purposeless steps of Annie
Walton into the quiet parlor might lead to results that would radically change the endless
future of several lives.

In her womanly, pitying nature, had not God sent His angel? If a viewless "ministering spirit,"
as the sinful man's appointed guardian, was present, as many believe is the case with every
one, how truly he must have welcomed this unselfish human companionship in his loving labor
to save life; for only they who rescue from sin truly save life.

And yet the sleeper, even in his dreams, was evidently at war with himself, the world, and
God. He was an example of the truth that good comes from without and not from within us. It
is heaven stooping to men; heaven's messengers sent to us; truth quickened in our minds by
heavenly influence, even as sunlight and rain awaken into beautiful life the seeds hidden in
the soil; and, above all, impulses direct from God, that steal into our hearts as the south
wind penetrates ice- bound gardens in spring.

But, alas! multitudes like Walter Gregory blind their eyes and steel their hearts against such
influences. God and those allied to Him longed to bring the healing of faith and love to his
wounded spirit. He scowled back his answer, and, as he then felt, would shrink with morbid
sensitiveness and dislike from the kindest and most delicate presentation of the transforming
truth. But the divine love is ever seeking to win our attention by messengers innumerable;
now by the appalling storm, again by a summer sunset; now by an awful providence, again by
a great joy; at times by stern prophets and teachers, but more often by the gentle human agencies
of which Annie was the type, as with pitying face she bent over the worn and jaded man of the
world and hoped and prayed that she might be able to act the part of a true sister toward him.
Thorny and guarded was every avenue to his heart; and yet her feminine tact, combined with
the softening and purifying influence of his old home, might gain her words acceptance, where
the wisest and most eloquent would plead in vain.

After dinner he again hastened forth for a walk, his purpose being to avoid company, for he
was so moody and morbid, so weak, nervous, and irritable, that the thought of meeting and decorously
conversing with those whose lives and character were a continual reproach to him was intolerable.
Then he had the impression that the "keen-eyed, plain- featured Miss Walton," as he characterized
her in his mind, would surely commence discoursing on moral and religious subjects if he gave
her a chance; and he feared that if she did, he would say or do something very rude, and confirm
the bad impression that he was sure of having already made. If he could have strolled into
his club, and among groups engaged with cards, papers, and city gossip, he would have felt
quite at home. Ties formed at such a place are not very strong as a usual thing, and the manner
of the world can isolate the members and their real life completely, even when the rooms are
thronged. As Gregory grew worn and thin and his pallor increased, as he smoked and brooded
more and more apart, his companions would shrug their shoulders significantly and whisper,
"It looks as if Gregory would go under soon. Something's the matter with him."

At first good-natured men would say, "Come, Gregory, take a hand with us," but when he complied
it was with such a listless manner that they were sorry they had asked him. At last, beyond
mere passing courtesies, they had come to leave him very much alone; and in his unnatural and
perverted state this was just what he most desired. His whole being had become a diseased,
sensitive nerve, shrinking most from any effort toward his improvement, even as a finger pointed
at a festering wound causes anticipatory agonies.

At the club he would be let alone, but these good people would "take an interest in him," and
might even "talk religion," and probe with questions and surmises. If they did, he knew, from
what he had already seen of them, that they would try to do it delicately and kindly, but he
felt that the most considerate efforts would be like the surgical instruments of the dark ages.
He needed good, decisive, heroic treatment. But who would have the courage and skill to give
it? Who cared enough for him to take the trouble?

Not merely had Annie Walton looked with eyes of human pity upon his sin-marred visage that
morning. The Divine personality, enthroned in the depths of her soul and permeating her life,
looked commiseratingly forth also. Could demons glare from human eyes and God not smile from them?

As Annie thought much of him after her stolen glance in the morning, she longed to do that
which he dreaded she would try to do--attempt his reformation. Not that she cared for him personally,
or that she had grown sentimentally interested in his Byronic style of wretchedness. So far
from it, her happy and healthful nature was repelled by his diseased and morbid one. She found
him what girls call a "disagreeable man." But she yearned toward a sinning, suffering soul,
found in any guise. It was not in her woman's heart to pass by on the other side.

CHAPTER VI

UNEXPECTED CHESTNUT BURRS

Gregory's afternoon walk was not very prolonged, for a shivering sense of discomfort soon drove
him back to the house. Although the morning had been cool, the sun had shone bright and warm,
but now the fore- shadowing of a storm was evident. A haze had spread over the sky, increasing
in leaden hue toward the west. The chilly wind moaned fitfully through the trees, and the landscape
darkened like a face shadowed by coming trouble.

Walter dreaded a storm, fearing it would shut him up with the family without escape; but at
last the sun so enshrouded itself in gloom that he was compelled to return. He went to his
room, for a book, hoping that when they saw him engaged they would leave him more to himself.
But to his agreeable surprise he found a cheerful fire blazing on the hearth, and an ample
supply of wood in a box near. The easy-chair was wheeled forward, and a plate of grapes and
the latest magazine were placed invitingly on the table. Even his cynicism was not proof against
this, delicate thoughtfulness, and he exclaimed, "Ah, this is better than I expected, and a
hundred-fold better than I deserve. I make but poor return for their kindness. This cosey room
seems to say, 'We won't force ourselves on you. You can be alone as much as you like,' for
I suppose they must have noticed my disinclination for society. But they are wise after all,
for I am cursed poor company for myself and worse than none at all for others."

Eating from time to time a purple grape, he so lost himself in the fresh thoughts of the magazine
that the tea-bell rang ere he was aware.

"In the name of decency I must try to make myself agreeable for a little while this evening,"
he muttered, as he descended to the cheerful supper-room.

To their solicitude for his health and their regret that the approaching storm had driven him
so early to the house, he replied, "I found in my room a better substitute for the sunlight
I had lost; though as a votary of nature, Miss Walton, I suppose you will regard this assertion
as rank heresy."

"Not at all, for your firelight is the result of sunlight." answered Annie, smiling.

"How is that?"

"It required many summers to ripen the wood that blazed on your hearth. Indeed, good dry wood
is but concentrated sunshine put by for cold, gloomy days and chilly nights."

"That is an odd fancy. I wish there were other ways of storing up sunshine for future use."

"There are," said Miss Walton, cheerfully; and she looked up as if she would like to say more,
but he instantly changed the subject in his instinctive wish to avoid the faintest approach
to moralizing. Still, conversation continued brisk till Mr. Walton asked suddenly, "By the
way, Mr. Gregory, have you ever met Mr. Hunting of Wall Street?"

There was no immediate answer, and they all looked inquiringly at him. To their surprise his
face was darkened by the heaviest frown. After a moment he said, with peculiar emphasis, "Yes;
I know him well."

A chill seemed to fall on them after that; and he, glancing up, saw that Annie looked flushed
and indignant, Miss Eulie pained, and Mr. Walton very grave. Even the little boy shot vindictive
glances at him. He at once surmised that Hunting was related to the family, and was oppressed
with the thought that he was fast losing the welcome given him on his father's account. But
in a few moments Annie rallied and made unwonted efforts to banish the general embarrassment,
and with partial success, for Gregory had tact and good conversational powers if he chose to
exert them. When, soon after, they adjourned to the parlor, outward serenity reigned.

On either side of the ample hearth, on which blazed a hickory fire, a table was drawn up. An
easy-chair stood invitingly by each, with a little carpet bench on which to rest the feet.

"Take one of these," said Mr. Walton, cordially, "and join me with a cigar. The ladies of my
household are indulgent to my small vices."

"And I will send for your magazine," said Annie, "and then you can read and chat according
to your mood. You gee that we do not intend to make a stranger of you."

"For which I am very glad. You treat me far better than I deserve."

Instead of some deprecatory remark, Annie gave him a quick, half- comical look which he did
not fully understand.

"There is more in her than I at first imagined," he thought.

Seated with the magazine, Gregory found himself in the enjoyment of every element of comfort.
That he might be under no constraint to talk, Annie commenced speaking to her father and Miss
Eulie of some neighborhood affairs, of which he knew nothing. The children and a large greyhound
were dividing the rug between them. The former were chatting in low tones and roasting the
first chestnuts of the season on a broad shovel that was placed on the glowing coals. The dog
was sleepily watching them lest in their quick movements his tail should come to grief.

Gregory had something of an artist's eye, and he could not help glancing up from his reading
occasionally, and thinking what a pretty picture the roomy parlor made.

"Annie," said Mr. Walton, after a little while, "I can't get through this article with my old
eyes. Won't you finish it for me? Shall we disturb you, Mr. Gregory?"

"Not at all."

Gregory soon forgot to read himself in listening to her. Not that he heard the subject-matter
with any interest, but her sweet, natural tones and simplicity arrested and retained his attention.
Even the statistics and the prose of political economy seemed to fall from her lips in musical
cadence, and yet there was no apparent effort and not a thought of effect. Walter mused as
he listened.

"I should like to hear some quiet, genial book read in that style, though it is evident that
Miss Walton is no tragedy queen."

Having finished the reading, Annie started briskly up and said, "Come, little people, your
chestnuts are roasted and eaten. It's bedtime. The turkeys and squirrels will be at the nut-trees
long before you to- morrow unless you scamper off at once."

"O, Aunt Annie," chimed their voices, "you must sing us the chestnut song first; you promised to."

"With your permission, Mr. Gregory, I suppose I must make my promise good," said Annie.

"I join the children in asking for the song," he replied, glad to get them out of the way on
such easy conditions, though he expected a nursery ditty or a juvenile hymn from some Sabbath-school
collection, wherein healthy, growing boys are made to sing, "I want to be an angel." "Moreover,"
he added, "I have read that one must always keep one's word to a child."

"Which is a very important truth: do you not think so?"

"Since you are using the word 'truth' so prominently, Miss Walton, I must say that I have not
thought much about it. But I certainly would have you keep your word on this occasion."

"Aunt Annie always keeps her word," said Johnny, rather bluntly. By some childish instinct
he divined that Gregory did not appreciate Aunt Annie sufficiently, and this added to his prejudice.

"You have a stout little champion there," Gregory remarked.

"I cannot complain of his zeal," she answered significantly, at the same time giving the boy
a caress. "Mr. Gregory, this is a rude country ballad, and we are going to sing it in our accustomed
way, even though it shock your city ears. Johnny and Susie, you can join in the chorus;" and
she sang the following simple October glee:

    Katydid, your throat is sore,
    You can chirp this fall no more;
    Robin red-breast, summer's past,
    Did you think 'twould always last?
    Fly away to sunny climes,
    Lands of oranges and limes;
    With the squirrels we shall stay
    And put our store of nuts away.
O the spiny chestnut burrs! O the prickly chestnut burrs!
    Harsh without, but lined with down,
    And full of chestnuts, plump and brown.

    Sorry are we for the flowers;
    We shall miss our summer bowers;
    Still we welcome frosty Jack,
    Stealing now from Greenland back.
    And the burrs will welcome him;
    When he knocks, they'll let him in.
    They don't know what Jack's about;
    Soon he'll turn the chestnuts out.
O the spiny, etc.-

    Turkey gobbler, with your train,
    You shall scratch the leaves in vain;
    Squirrel, with your whisking tail,
    Your sharp eyes shall not avail;
    In the crisp and early dawn,
    Scampering across the lawn.
    We will beat you to the trees,
    Come you then whene'er you please.
O the spiny, etc.--

Gregory's expression as she played a simple prelude was one of endurance, but when she began
to sing the changes of his face were rapid. First he turned toward her with a look of interest,
then of surprise. Miss Eulie could not help watching him, for, though she was well on in life,
just such a character had never risen above her horizon. Too gentle to censure, she felt that
she had much cause for regret.

At first she was pleased to see that he found the ditty far more to his taste than he had expected.
But the rapid alternation from pleased surprise and enjoyment to something like a scowl of
despair and almost hate she could not understand. Following his eyes she saw them resting on
the boy, who was now eagerly joining in the chorus of the last verse. She was not sufficiently
skilled to know that to Gregory's diseased moral nature things most simple and wholesome in
themselves were most repugnant. She could not understand that the tripping little song, with
its wild-wood life and movement--that the boy singing with the delight of a pure, fresh heart--told
him, beyond the power of labored language, how hackneyed and blase he had become, how far and
hopelessly he had drifted from the same true childhood.

And Miss Walton, turning suddenly toward him, saw the same dark expression, full of suffering
and impotent revolt at his destiny, as he regarded it, and she too was puzzled.

"You do not like our foolish little song," she said.

"I envy that boy, Miss Walton," was his reply.

Then she began to understand him, and said, gently, "You have no occasion to."

"I wish you, or any one, could find the logic to prove that."

"The proof is not in logic but in nature, that is ever young. They who draw their life from
nature do not fall into the only age we need dread."

"Do you not expect to grow old?"

She shook her head half humorously and said, "But these children will before I get them to bed."

He ostensibly resumed his magazine, but did not turn any leaves.

His first mental query was, "Have I rightly gauged Miss Walton? I half believe she understands
me better than I do her. I estimated her as a goodish, fairly educated country girl, of the
church-going sort, one that would be dreadfully shocked at finding me out, and deem it at once
her mission to pluck me as a brand from the burning. I know all about the goodness of such
girls. They are ignorant of the world; they have never been tempted, and they have a brood
of little feminine weaknesses that of course are not paraded in public.

"And no doubt all this is true of Miss Walton, and yet, for some reason, she interests me a
little this evening. She is refined, but nowhere in the world will you meet drearier monotony
and barrenness than among refined people. Having no real originality, their little oddities
are polished away. In Miss Walton I'm beginning to catch glimpses of vistas unexplored, though
perhaps I am a fool for thinking so.

"What a peculiar voice she has! She would make a poor figure, no doubt, in an opera; and yet
she might render a simple aria very well. But for songs of nature and ballads I have never
heard so sympathetic a voice. It suggests a power of making music a sweet home language instead
of a difficult, high art, attainable by few. Really Miss Walton is worth investigation, for
no one with such a voice can be utterly commonplace. Strange as it is, I cannot ignore her.
Though she makes no effort to attract my attention, I am ever conscious of her presence."

CHAPTER VII

A CONSPIRACY

When Miss Walton returned to the parlor her father said, "Annie, I am going to trespass on
your patience again."

She answered with a little piquant gesture, and was soon reading in natural, easy tones, without
much stumbling, what must have been Greek to her.

Gregory watched her with increasing interest, and another question than the one of finance
involved in the article was rising in his mind.

"Is this real? Is this seeming goodness a fact?" It was the very essence of his perverted nature
to doubt it. Now that his eyes were opened, and he closely observed Miss Walton, he saw that
his prejudices against her were groundless. Although not a stylish, pretty woman, she was evidently
far removed from the goodish, commonplace character that he could regard as part of the furniture
of the house, useful in its place, but of no more interest than a needful piece of cabinet
work. Nor did she assert herself as do those aggressive, lecturing females who deem it their
mission to set everybody right within their sphere.

And yet she did assert herself; but he was compelled to admit that it was like the summer breeze
or the perfume of a rose. He had resolved that very day to avoid and ignore her as far as possible,
and yet, before the first evening in her presence was half over, he had left a magazine story
unfinished; he was watching her, thinking and surmising about her, and listening, as she read,
to what he did not care a straw about. Although she had not made the slightest effort, some
influence from her had stolen upon him like a cool breeze on a sultry day, and wooed him as
gently as the perfume of a flower that is sweet to all. He said to himself, "She is not pretty,"
and yet found pleasure in watching her red lips drop figures and financial terms as musically
as a little rill murmurs over a mossy rock.

From behind his magazine he studied the group at the opposite table, but it was with the pain
which a despairing swimmer, swept seaward by a resistless current, might feel in seeing the
safe and happy on the shore.

Gray Mr. Walton leaned back in his chair, the embodiment of peace and placid content.

The subject to which he was listening and kindred topics had so far receded that his interest
was that of a calm, philosophic observer, and Gregory thought, with a glimmer of a smile, "He
is not dabbling in stocks or he could not maintain that quiet mien."

His habits of thought as a business man merely made it a pleasure to keep up with the times.
In fact he was in that serene border-land between the two worlds where the questions of earth
are growing vague and distant and those of the "better country" more real and engrossing, for
Gregory observed, later in the evening, that he took the family Bible with more zest than he
had bestowed on the motive power of the world. It was evident where his most valued treasures
were stored. With a bitter sigh, Gregory thought, "I would take his gray hairs if I could have
his peace and faith."

Miss Eulie, to whom he gave a passing glance, seemed even less earthly in her nature. Indeed,
it appeared as if she had never more than half belonged to the material creation. Slight, ethereal,
with untroubled blue eyes, and little puff curls too light to show their change to gray, she
struck Gregory unpleasantly, as if she were a connecting link between gross humanity and spiritual
existence, and his eyes reverted to Miss Walton, and dwelt with increasing interest on her.
There at least were youth, health, and something else--what was it in the girl that had so
strongly and suddenly gained his attention? At any rate there was nothing about her uncanny
and spirit-like.

He did not understand her. Was it possible that a young girl, not much beyond twenty, was happy
in the care of orphan children, in the quiet humdrum duties of housekeeping, and in reading
stupid articles through the long, quiet evenings, with few excitements beyond church-going,
rural tea-drinkings, and country walks and rides? With a grim smile he thought how soon the
belles he had admired would expire under such a regimen. Could this be good acting because
a guest was present? If so it was perfect, for it seemed, her daily life.

"I will watch her," he thought. "I will solve this little feminine enigma. It will divert my
mind, and I've nothing else to do."

"My daughter spoils me, you see, Mr. Gregory," said Mr. Walton, starting up as Annie finished
a theory that would make every one rich by the printing-press process,

"Don't plume yourself, papa," replied Annie, archly; "I shall make you do something for me
to pay for all this."

With a humorous look he replied, "No matter, I have the best of the bargain, for I should have
to do the 'something' anyway. But what do you think of this theory, sir?" And he explained,
not knowing that Walter had been listening.

The gentlemen were soon deep in the mysteries of currency and finance, topics on which both
could talk well. Annie listened with polite attention for a short time--indeed Gregory was
exerting himself more for her sake than for Mr. Walton's--and she was satisfied from her father's
face that his guest was interesting him; but as the subject was mainly unintelligible to her
she soon turned with real zest to Miss Eulie's fancy-work, and there was an earnest whispered
discussion in regard to the right number of stitches. Walter noted this and sneeringly thought,
with a masculine phase of justice often seen, "That's like a woman. She drops one of the deepest
and most important subjects of the day" (and he might have added, "As explained by me")-- "and
gives her whole soul to a bit of thread lace;" and he soon let Mr. Walton have the discussion
all his own way.

In furtherance of his purpose to draw Annie out he said, rather banteringly, "Miss Walton,
I am astonished that so good a man as your father should have as an ardent friend the profane
and disreputable character that I found living in the cottage opposite on the day of my arrival."

"Profane, I admit he is," she replied, "but not disreputable. Indeed, as the world goes, I
think old Daddy Tuggar, as he is called in this vicinity, is a good man."

"O, Annie!" said Miss Eulie. "How can you think so? You have broader charity than I. He is
breaking his poor wife's heart."

"Indeed?" said Annie, dryly; "I was not aware of it."

"I too am astonished," said Walter, in mock solemnity. "How is it that a refined and orthodox
young lady, a pillar of the church, too, I gather, can regard with other than unmixed disapprobation
a man who breaks the third commandment and all the rules of Lindley Murray at every breath?"

"I imagine the latter offence is the more heinous sin in your eyes, Mr. Gregory," she said,
scanning his face with a quick look.

"Oh, you become aggressive. I was under the impression that I was making the attack and that
you were on the defensive. But I can readily explain the opinion which you, perhaps not unjustly,
impute to me. You and I judge this venerable sinner from different standpoints."

"You explain your judgment, but do not justify it," replied Annie, quietly.

"Annie, I don't see on what grounds you call Daddy Tuggar a good man," said Miss Eulie, emphatically.

"Please understand me, aunty," said Annie, earnestly. "I did not say he was a Christian man,
but merely a good man as the world goes; and I know I shall shock you when I say that I have
more faith in him than in his praying and Scripture-quoting wife. There, I knew I should,"
she added, as she saw Miss Eulie's look of pained surprise.

Mr. Walton was listening with an amused smile. He evidently understood his quaint old friend
and shared Annie's opinion of him.

Gregory was growing decidedly interested, and said, "Really, Miss Walton, I must side with
your aunt in this matter. I shall overwhelm you with an awful word. I think you are latitudinarian
in your tendencies."

"Which Daddy Tuggar would call a new-fangled way of swearing at me," retorted Annie, with her
frank laugh that was so genuinely mirthful that even Aunt Eulie joined in it.

"I half think," continued Annie, "that the churchmen in the ages of controversy did a good
deal of worse swearing than our old neighbor is guilty of when they hurled at each other with
such bitter zest the epithets Antinomian, Socinian, Pelagian, Calvinistic, etc."

"Those terms have an awful sound. They smite my ear with all the power that vagueness imparts,
and surely must have caused stout hearts to tremble in their day," he remarked.

"We are no longer on the ground of currency and finance," said Annie, archly, "and I shall
leave you to imagine that I know all about the ideas represented by the polysyllabic terms
of churchmen's warfare."

He looked at her a moment in comic dismay. Really this country girl was growing too much for
him in his game of banter.

"Miss Walton, I shall not dispute or question your knowledge of the Socin--cin--(you know the
rest) heresy--"

"Alas!" put in Annie, quietly, "I do know all about the 'sin heresy.' I can say that honestly."

"I am somewhat inclined to doubt that," he said, quickly; then added, in sudden and mock severity,
"Miss Walton, if I were a judge upon the bench I should charge that you were evading the question
and befogging the case. The point at issue is, How can you regard Daddy Tuggar as a good man?
As evidence against him I can affirm that I do not remember to have had such a good square
cursing in my life, and I have received several."

This last expression caused Miss Eulie to open her eyes at him.

"Not for your sake, sir," said Annie, with a keen yet humorous glance at him, "who as judge
on the bench have in your pocket a written verdict, I fear, but for Aunt Eulie's I will give
the reasons for my estimate. I regard her in the light of an honest jury. In the first place
the term you used, 'square,' applies to him. I do not think he could be tempted to do a dishonest
thing; and that, as the world goes, is certainly a good point."

"And as the church goes, too," he added, cynically.

"He is a good neighbor, and considerate of the rights of others. He can feel, and is not afraid
to show a sincere indignation when seeing a wrong done to another."

"I can vouch for that. I shall steal no more of your apples, Mr. Walton."

"There is not a particle of hypocrisy about him. I wish I could think the same of his wife.
For some reason she always gives me the impression of insincerity. If I were as good as you
are, aunty, perhaps I should not be so suspicious. One thing more, and my eulogy of Daddy--the
only one he will ever receive, I fear--is over. He is capable of sincere friendship, and that
is more than you can say of a great many."

"It is indeed," said Gregory, with bitter emphasis. "I should be willing to take my chances
with Daddy Tuggar in this or any other world."

"You had better not," she answered, now thoroughly in earnest.

"Why so?"

"I should think memories of this place would make my meaning clear," she replied, gently.

Gregory's face darkened, and he admitted to himself that most unexpectedly she had sent an
arrow home, and yet he could take no exception.

His indifference toward her had vanished now. So far from regarding her as a dull, good, country
girl with a narrow horizon of little feminine and commonplace interests, he began to doubt
whether he should be able to cope with her in the tilt of thought. He saw that she was quick,
original, and did her own thinking, that in repartee she hit back unexpectedly, in flashes,
as the lightning strikes from the clouds. He could not keep pace with her quick intuition.

Moreover, in her delicate reference to his parents' faith she had suggested an argument for
Christianity that he had never been able to answer. For a little time she had caused him to
forget his wretched self, but her last remark had thrown him back on his old doubts, fears,
and memories. As we have said, his cynical, despondent expression returned, and he silently
lowered at the fire.

Annie had too much tact to add a word. "He must be hurt--well probed indeed--before he can
be well," she thought.

Country bedtime had now come, and Mr. Walton said, "Mr. Gregory, I trust you will not find
our custom of family prayers distasteful."

"The absence of such a custom would seem strange to me in this place," he replied, but he did
not say whether it would be agreeable or distasteful.

Annie went to the piano as if it were a habit, and after a moment chose the tender hymn--

    "Come, ye disconsolate."

At first, in his morbid sensitiveness, he was inclined to resent this selection as aimed at
him, but soon he was under the spell of the music and the sentiment, which he thought had never
before been so exquisitely blended.

Miss Walton was not very finished or artistic in anything. She would not be regarded as a scholar,
even among the girls of her own age and station, and her knowledge of classical music was limited.
But she was gifted in a peculiar degree with tact, a quick perception, and the power of interpreting
the language of nature and of the heart. She read and estimated character rapidly. Almost intuitively
she saw people's needs and weaknesses, but so far was she from making them the ground of satire
and contempt that they awakened her pity and desire to help. In other words, she was one of
those Christians who in some degree catch the very essence of Christ's character, who lived
and died to save. She did not think of condemning the guilty and disconsolate man that brooded
at her fireside, but she did long to help him.

"I may never be able to say such words to him directly," she thought, "but I can sing them,
and if he leaves our home to-morrow he shall hear the truth once more."

And she did sing with tenderness and feeling. In rendering something that required simplicity,
nature, and pathos, no prima donna could surpass her, for while her voice was not powerful,
and had no unusual compass, it was as sweet as that of a thrush in May.

Only deaf ears and a stony heart could have remained insensible, and Gregory was touched. A
reviving breath from Paradise seemed to blow upon him and gently urge, "Arise, struggle, make
one more effort, and you may yet cross the burning sands of the desert. It is not a mirage
that is mocking you now."

As the last words trembled from the singer's lips he shaded his eyes with the hand on which
his head was leaning, but Miss Eulie saw a tear fall with momentary glitter, and she exulted
over it as his good angel might have done.

If penitent tears could be crystallized they would be the only gems of earth that angels would
covet, and perhaps God's co-workers here will find those that they caused to flow on earth,
set as gems in their "crown of glory that fadeth not away."

Mr. Walton, in reverential tones, read the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah, which, with greater
beauty and tenderness, carried forward the thought of the hymn; and then he knelt and offered
a prayer that was so simple and child-like, so free from form and cant, and so direct from
the heart, that Gregory was deeply moved. The associations of his early home were now most
vividly revealed and crowned by the sacred hour of family worship, the memory of which, like
a reproachful face, had followed him in all his evil life.

When he arose from his knees he again shaded his face with his hand to hide his wet eyes and
twitching muscles. After a few moments he bade the family an abrupt goodnight, and retired
to his room.

At first they merely exchanged significant glances. Then Miss Eulie told of the tear as if
it were a bit of dust from a mine that might enrich them all. For a while Annie sat thoughtfully
gazing into the fire, but at last she said, "It must be plain to us that Mr. Gregory has wandered
further from his old home in spirit than he has in body; but it seems equally evident that
he is not happy and content. He seems suffering and out of health in soul and body. Perhaps
God has sent him to us and to his childhood's home for healing. Let us, therefore, be very
careful, very tender and considerate. He is naturally proud and sensitive, and is morbidly so now."

"I think he is near the Kingdom," said Miss Eulie, with a little sigh of satisfaction.

"Perhaps all are nearer than we think," said Annie, in a musing tone. "God is not far from
any one of us. But it is the curse of sin to blind. He has, no doubt, been long in reaching
his present unhappy condition, and he may be long in escaping from it."

"Well, the Lord reigns," said Mr. Walton, sententiously, as if that settled the question.

"Dear old father!" said Annie, smiling fondly at him, "that's your favorite saying. You have
a comfortable habit of putting all perplexing questions into the Lord's hand and borrowing
no further trouble. Perhaps that is the wisest way after all, only one is a long time learning it."

"I've been a long time learning it, my child," said her father. "Let us agree to carry his
case often to the throne of mercy, and in His good time and way our prayers will be answered."

Thus in quaint old scriptural style they conspired for the life of their unconscious guest.
This was in truth a "holy alliance." How many dark conspiracies there have been, resulting
in blood, wrong, and outrage, that some unworthy brow might wear for a little time a petty,
perishing crown of earth! Oh, that there were more conspiracies like that in Mr. Walton's parlor
for the purpose of rendering the unworthy fit to wear the crown immortal!

CHAPTER VIII

WITCHCRAFT

Miss Eulie was doomed to disappointment, for Gregory came down late to breakfast the following
morning with not a trace of his softened feelings. Indeed, because of pride, or for some reason,
he chose to seem the very reverse of all she had hoped. The winter of his unbelief could not
pass away so easily.

Even in January there are days of sudden relenting, when the frost's icy grasp upon nature
seems to relax. Days that rightfully belong to spring drop down upon us with birds that have
come before their time. But such days may end in a northeast snowstorm and the birds perish.

The simile appeared true of Gregory. As far as he took part in the table-talk he was a cold,
finished man of the world, and the gloom of the early morning rested on his face. But Annie
noticed that he made an indifferent breakfast and did not appear well.

After he had retired to his room to write some letters, as he said, she remarked to her father
when alone with him:

"I suppose you remember Mr. Gregory's manner when you spoke of Mr. Hunting. They evidently
are acquainted and not on good terms. What could have occurred between them?"

"Some quarrel resulting from business, perhaps," said Mr. Walton, musingly.

"I believe Charles has been trying to restrain Mr. Gregory in some of his fast ways," Annie
continued, emphatically, "and they have had hot words. Men have so little discretion in their
zeal."

"Business men are not apt to interfere with each other's foibles unless they threaten their
pockets," her father replied. "It is more probable that Gregory has borrowed money of Hunting,
and been compelled to pay it against his will; and yet I have no right to surmise anything
of the kind."

"But Mr. Hunting is not a mere business man, father. He is bent on doing good wherever he can
find opportunity. I incline to my solution. But it is clear that we must be silent in regard
to him while Mr. Gregory is with us, for I never saw such bitter enmity expressed in any face.
It is well that Charles is to be absent for some time, and that we have no prospect of a visit
from him while our guest is here. Oh, dear! I wish Charles could come and make us a visit instead
of this moody, wayward stranger."

"I can echo that wish heartily, Annie, for in the son I find little of my old friend, his father.
But remember what you said last night. It may be that he was sent to us in order that we should
help him become what his father was."

"I will do my best; but I do not look forward to his society with much pleasure. Still, if
there should be any such result as we hope for, I should feel repaid a thousand-fold."

Gregory finished his letters and then paced restlessly up and down his room.

"That this country girl should have so moved me!" he muttered. "What does it mean? What is
there about her that takes hold of my attention and awakens my interest? I wish to go downstairs
now, and talk to her, and have her read to me, and am provoked with myself that I do. Yesterday
at this time I wished to avoid her.

"Why should I wish to avoid her? If she amuses me, diverts my mind, beguiles my pain, or more
dreary apathy, why not let her exert her power to the utmost and make herself useful? Yes,
but she will try to do more than amuse. Well, suppose she does; one can coolly foil such efforts.
Not so sure of that. If I were dealing with a man I could, but one must be worse than a clod
to hear her sing and not feel. I suppose I made a weak fool of myself before them all last
night, and they thought I was on the eve of conversion. I half wish I were, or on the eve of
anything else. Any change from my present state would seem a relief. But a man cannot go into
these things like an impulsive girl, even if he believes in them, which is more than I do.
I seem to have fallen into a state of moral and physical imbecility, in which I can only doubt,
suffer, and chafe.

"I won't avoid her. I will study and analyze her character. I doubt whether she is as good,
fresh, and original as she seems. Such girls exist only in moral stories, and I've met but
few even there. I will solve her mystery. Probably it is not a very deep one, and after a day
or two she will become an old story and life resume its normal monotony;" and he at once descended
the stairs to carry out his purpose.

The children were just coming from the sitting-room where they had their school, exclaiming,
"Oh, aunty, what shall we do this awful rainy day?"

"Wait till I have given some directions to Zibbie, and I will read you a fairy story, and then
you can go up into the garret until dinner- time."

"May I listen to the fairy story also?" asked Walter.

Miss Walton looked up with a smile and said, "You must be half- desperate from your imprisonment
to accept of such solace. But if you can wait till I have kept my word to the children I will
read something more to your taste."

"I think I should like to hear how a fairy story sounds once again after all these years."

"As Shakespeare may sound to us some time in the future," she replied, smiling.

"I can't believe we shall ever outgrow Shakespeare," he said.

"I can believe it, but cannot understand how it is possible. As yet I am only growing up to
Shakespeare."

"You seem very ready to believe what you cannot understand."

"And that is woman's way, I suppose you would like to add," she answered, smiling over her
shoulder, as she turned to the kitchen department. "You men have a general faith that there
will be dinner at two o'clock, though you understand very little how it comes to pass, and
if you are disappointed the best of your sex have not fortitude enough to wait patiently, so
I must delay no longer to propitiate the kitchen divinity."

"There!" he said, "I have but crossed her steps in the hall, and she has stirred me and set
my nerves tingling like an October breeze. She is a witch."

After a few minutes Miss Walton entered. Each of the children called for a story, and both
clamored for their favorites.

"Johnny," said Miss Walton, "it is manly to yield to the least and weakest, especially if she
be a little woman."

The boy thought a moment, and then with an amusing assumption of dignity said, "You may read
Susie's story first, aunty."

"Susie, promise Johnny that his story shall be read first next time;" which Susie promptly
did with a touch of the womanly grace which accompanies favors bestowed after the feminine
will has triumphed.

"Now, little miniature man and woman, listen!" and their round eyes were ready for the world
of wonders.

And this child of nature was at the same time showing Gregory a world as new and strange--a
world that he had caught glimpses of when a boy, but since had lost hopelessly. She carried
the children away into fairy-land. She suggested to him a life in which simplicity, truth,
and genuine goodness might bring peace and hope to the heart.

"Well, what do you think of the fairy story?" she asked after she had finished and the children
had drawn sighs of intense relief at the happy denouement, in which the ugly ogre was slain
and the prince and princess were married:

"I did not hear it," he said.

"That's complimentary. But you appeared listening very closely."

"You have heard of people reading a different meaning between the lines, and I suppose one
can listen to a different meaning."

"And what could you find between the lines of this fairy tale?" she asked with interest.

"It would be difficult for me to explain--something too vague and indefinite for words, I fear.
But if you will read me something else I will listen to the text itself."

"Come, children, scamper off to the garret," said Annie, "and remember you are nearer heaven
up there, and so must be very kind and gentle to each other."

"You will fill those youngsters' heads with beautiful superstitions."

"Superstition and faith are not so very far apart, though so unlike."

"Yes, it is hard to tell where one leaves off and the other begins."

"Is it?"

"Isn't it?"

"I don't like to contradict you, sir."

"You have contradicted me, and I suppose it is manly to yield to a lady.'"

"Not in matters of principle and honest conviction."

"Alas! if one has not very much of either!"

"It is a very great misfortune, and, I suppose I ought to add, fault."

"I have no doubt it is a misfortune, Miss Walton, but you are not reading."

"Well, make your choice."

"I leave it entirely to you."

"You don't look very well to-day. I will select something light and cheerful from Dickens."

"Excuse me, please. I am in no mood for his deliberate purpose to make one laugh."

"Then here is Irving. His style flows like a meadowbrook."

"No, he is too sentimental."

"Walter Scott, then, will form a happy medium."

"No, he wearies one with explanations and history."

"Some of Tennyson's dainty idylls will suit your fastidious taste."

"I couldn't abide his affected, stilted language to-day."

"Shakespeare, then; you regard him as perfect."

"No, he makes me think, and I do not wish to."

"Well, here are newspapers, the latest magazine, and some new novels."

"Modern rubbish--a mushroom growth. They will soon kindle kitchen fires instead of thought."

"Then I must make an expedition to the library. What shall I bring? There is Mosheim's 'Ecclesiastical
Ancient History'; that has a solid, venerable sound. Or, if you prefer poetry, I will get Gray's
'Elegy.' That cannot be a literary mushroom, for he was twenty years writing it. But perhaps
it is Tupper you would like. That would suit your mood exactly, Tupper's 'Proverbial Philosophy.'"

"You are growing satirical, Miss Walton. Why don't you assert plainly that I am as full of
whims as a--"

"Woman, would you like to say?"

"Present company excepted. The fact is, I am two-thirds ill to-day, and the most faultless
style and theme in our language would weary me. I am possessed by the evil spirits of ennui,
unrest, and disgust at myself and all the world, present company always excepted. Do you know
of any spell that can exorcise these demons?"

"Yes, a very simple one. Will you put yourself absolutely in my power and obey?"

"I am your slave."

Miss Walton left the room and soon returned with a large afghan. "You must take a horizontal
position in order that my spell may work."

"Pshaw! you are prescribing an ordinary nap."

"I am glad to say the best things in this world are ordinary. But permit me to suggest that
in view of your pledged word you have nothing to do in this matter but to obey."

"Very well;" and he threw himself on the sofa.

"The day is chilly, sir, and I must throw this afghan over you;" and she did so with a little
touch of delicacy which is so grateful when one is indisposed.

Her manner both soothed and pleased him.

He was more lonely than he realized, for it had been years since he had experienced woman's
gentle care and ministry; and Annie Walton had a power possessed by few to put jangling nerves
at rest. Suddenly he said, "I wish I had a sister like you."

"My creed, you know," she replied, "makes all mankind kindred."

"Nonsense!" said Gregory, irritably; "deliver me from your church sisters."

"Take care!" she answered, with a warning nod, "I'm a church sister; so don't drive me away,
for I am going to sing you to sleep."

"I'm half inclined to join your church that I may call you sister."

"You would be disciplined and excommunicated within a month. But hush; you must not talk."

"How would you treat me after I had been anathematized?"

"If you were as ill as you are to-day I would make you sleep. Hush; not another word. I am
going to sing."

A luxurious sense of comfort stole over him, and he composed himself to listen and criticise,
little imagining, though, that he would fall asleep. He saw through the window a lowering sky
with leaden clouds driven wildly across it. The wind moaned and soughed around the angles of
the house, and the rain beat against the glass. All without seemed emblematic of himself. But
now he had a brief but blessed sense of shelter from both the storm and himself. The fire blazed
cheerily on the hearth. The afghan seemed to envelop him like a genial atmosphere. Had Miss
Walton bewitched it by her touch? And now she has found something to suit her, or rather him,
and is singing.

"What an unusual voice she has!" he thought "Truly the spirit of David's harp, that could banish
the demon from Saul, dwells in it. I wonder if she is as good and real as she seems, or whether,
under the stress of temptation or the poison of flattery, she would not show herself a true
daughter of Eve? I must find out, for it is about the only remaining question that interests
me. If she is like the rest of us--if she is a female Hunting--then good-by to all hope. I
shall not live to find anybody or anything to trust. If she is what she seems, it's barely
possible that she might help me out of this horrible 'slough of despond,' if she would take
the trouble. I wish that she were my sister, or that my sister had lived and had been just
like her."

CHAPTER IX

MISS WALTON RECOMMENDS A HOBBY

To Gregory's surprise he waked and then admitted to himself that, contrary to his expectation
and purpose, he had been asleep. His last remembered consciousness was that of sweet, low music;
and how long ago was that? He looked at his watch; it was nearly two, and he must have slept
several hours. He glanced around and saw that he was alone, but the fire still blazed on the
hearth, and the afghan infolded him with its genial warmth as before, and it seemed that although
by himself he was still cared for.

"She is a witch," he muttered. "Her spells are no jokes. But I will investigate her case like
an old-time Salem inquisitor. With more than Yankee curiosity, which was at the bottom of their
superstitious questionings, I will pry into her power. But she will find that she has a wary
sceptic to convince. I have seen too many saints and sinners to be again deceived by fair seeming."

A broad ray of sunlight shot across the room. "By my soul! it's clearing off. Is this her work
also? Has she swept away the clouds with her broomstick? And there goes the dinner-bell, too;"
and he went to his room two steps at a time, as he had done when a boy.

Annie coming out of the sitting-room at that moment, smiled and said: "He must be better."

At the table she asked, "How do you find yourself now?"

"Much given to appetite." Then, turning to Mr. Walton, he said, abruptly, "Do you believe in
witchcraft?"

"Well, no, sir," said Mr. Walton, a little taken aback.

"I do!" continued he, emphatically.

"When and where have you had experience of the black art?"

"This morning, and in your house, sir."

"You seem none the worse for it," said his host, smiling.

"Indeed, I have not felt so well in months. Your larder will suffer if I am practiced upon
any more."

"Well, of all modern and prosaic results of witchery this exceeds," said Annie, laughing, "since
only a good appetite comes of it."

"It yet remains to be seen whether this is the only result," replied Gregory. "What possessed
the old Puritans to persecute the Salem witches is a mystery to me, if their experience was
anything like mine."

"You must remember that the question of what was agreeable or otherwise scarcely entered into
a Puritan's motives."

"I am not so sure of that," he answered, quickly. "It has ever seemed to me that the good people
of other days went into persecution with a zeal that abstract right can hardly account for.
People will have their excitements, and a good rousing persecution used to stir things like
the burning of Chicago or a Presidential election in our day."

"Granting," said Annie, "the bigotry and cruelty of the persecutor-- and these must be mainly
charged to the age--still you must admit that among them were earnest men who did from good
motives what appears very wrong to us. What seemed to them evil and destructive principles
were embodied in men and women, and they meant to destroy the evil through the suffering and
death of these poor creatures."

"And then consider the simplicity and ease of the persecutor's method," continued Gregory,
mockingly. "A man's head has become full of supposed doctrinal errors. To refute and banish
these would require much study and argument on the part of the opponent. It was so much easier
to take an obstinate heretic's head off than to argue with him! I think it was the simplicity
of the persecutor's method that kept it in favor so long."

"But it never convinced any one," said Annie, "and the man killed merely goes into another
world of the same opinion still."

"And there probably learns, poor fellow, that both were wrong, and that he had better have
been content with good dinners and a quiet life, and let theology alone."

"The world would move but slowly, if all men were content with 'good dinners and a quiet life,'"
said Annie, satirically. "But you have not answered my question. Could not good, earnest men
have been very cruel, believing that everything depended on their uprooting some evil of their
day?"

"To tell the truth, Miss Walton," he replied, a little nettled, "I have no sympathy with that
style of men. To me they are very repulsive and ridiculous. They remind me of the breathless,
perspiring politicians of our time, who button-hole you and assert that the world will come
to an end unless John Smith is elected. To me, the desperate earnestness of people who imagine
it their mission to set the world right is excessively tiresome. For one man or a thousand
to proclaim that they speak for God and embody truth, and that the race should listen and obey,
is the absurdity of arrogance."

"If we were to agree with you, should we not have to say that the prophets should have kept
their visions to themselves, and that Luther should have remained in his cell, and Columbus
have coasted alongshore and not insisted on what was to all the world an absurdity?"

"Come, Miss Walton," said Gregory, with a vexed laugh as they rose from the table, "you are
a witch. I am willing to argue with flesh and blood, but I would rather hear you sing. Still,
since you have swept away these clouds so I can have my ramble, I will forgive you for unhorsing
me in our recent tilt."

"If you would mount some good honest hobby and ride it hard, I doubt whether any one could
unhorse you," she replied in a low tone, as she accompanied him to the parlor.

"Men with hobbies are my detestation, Miss Walton."

"Nevertheless, they are the true knights-errant of our age. Of course it depends upon what
kind of hobbies they ride, or whether they can manage their steeds."

"Miss Walton, your figure suggests a half-idiot, with a narrow forehead and one idea, banging
back and forth on a wooden horse, but making no progress--in other words, a fussy, bustling
man who can do and talk but one thing."

"Your understanding of the popular phrase is narrow and literal, and while it may have such
a meaning, it can also have a very different one. Suppose that, instead of looking with languid
eyes alike upon all things, a man finds some question of vital import, or a pursuit that promises
good to himself and to others and that enlists his interest. He comes at last to give it his
best energies and thought. The whole current of his life is setting in that direction. Of course
he must ever be under the restraints of good sense and refinement. A man's life without a hobby
is a weak and wavering line of battle indefinitely long. One's life with a hobby is a concentrated
charge."

There was in Miss Walton's face and manner, as she uttered these words, that which caused him
to regard her with involuntary admiration. Suddenly he asked, "Have you a hobby?"

Her manner changed instantly, and with an arch look she said, "If you detest a man with a hobby,
what a monster a woman with one would be in your eyes!"

"I have admitted that you are a witch."

"Oh, I am a monster already, and so have no character to lose. But where is your penetration?
If a man with a hobby is idiotic, narrow- browed, fussy and bustling, excessively obtrusive
with his one idea, a woman must be like him with all these things exaggerated. Has it not occurred
to you that I have a hobby of the most wooden and clumsy order?"

"But that was my idea of a hobby. You have spiritualized my wooden block into a Pegasus--the
symbol of inspiration. Have you such a hobby?"

"I have."

"What is it?"

She went out of the room, saying smilingly over her shoulder, "You must find that out for yourself."

CHAPTER X

A PLOT AGAINST MISS WALTON

Gregory was soon off for his ramble. The storm had cleared away, leaving the air so warm and
genial as to suggest spring rather than fall; but he was quite oblivious of the outer world,
and familiar scenes had not the power to awaken either pleasant or painful associations. He
was trying to account for the influence that Annie Walton had suddenly gained over him, but
it was beyond his philosophy. This provoked him. His cool, worldly nature doubted everything
and especially everybody. He believed in the inherent weakness of humanity, and that if people
were exceptionally good it was because they had been exceptionally fortunate in escaping temptation.
He also had a cynical pleasure in seeing such people tripping and stumbling, so that he might
say in self-excusing, "We are all alike."

And yet he was compelled to admit that if Annie's goodness was seeming it was higher art than
he had known before. There was also an unconscious assertion of superiority in her manner that
he did not like. True, things had turned out far better than he had expected. There was no
cant about her. She did not lecture him or "talk religion" in what he regarded as the stereotyped
way, and he was sure she would not, even if they became better acquainted. But there is that
in genuine goodness and nobility of character that always humiliates the bad and makes them
feel their degradation. A real pity and sympathy for him tinged her manner, but these qualities
are not agreeable to pride. And it must be admitted that she had a little self-righteous satisfaction
that she was so much better than this sadly robbed and wounded man suddenly appearing at the
wayside of her life. In human strength there is generally a trace of arrogance. Only divine
strength and purity can say with perfect love and full allowance for all weakness and adverse
influences, "Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more."

Gregory had now reached a rustic bridge across a little stream that, swollen from the recent
rain, came gurgling and clamoring down from the hills. Leaning upon the rail he seemed to watch
the foaming water glide under his feet; but the outward vision made no impression on his mind.

At last in the consciousness of solitude he said: "She told me I must find her out. I will.
I will know whether she is as free from human frailty as she seems. I have little doubt that
before many days I can cause her to show all the inherent weaknesses of her sex; and I should
think New York and Paris had taught me what they are. She has never been tempted. She has never
been subjected to the delicate flattery of an accomplished man of the world. I am no gross
libertine. I could not be in this place. I could not so wrong hospitality and the household
of my father's friend. But I should like to prove to that girl her delusion, and show her that
she is a weak woman like the rest; that she is a pretty painted ship that has never been in
a storm, and therefore need not sail so confidently. We all start on the voyage of life as
little skiffs and pleasure boats might cross the ocean. If any get safely over, it is because
they were lucky enough not to meet dangerous currents or rough weather. I should like her better
with her piquant ways if she were more like myself. Saints and Madonnas are well enough in
pictures, but such as I would find them very uncomfortable society."

With sudden power the thought flashed upon him, "Why not let her make you as she is?" Where
did the thought come from? Tell me not that the Divine Father forgets His children. He is speaking
to them continually, only they will not hear. There was a brief passionate wish on the part
of this bad man that she might be what she seemed and that he could become like her. As the
turbulent, muddy Jordan divided that God's people might pass through, so this thought from
heaven found passage through his heart, and then the current of sinful impulse and habit flowed
on as before. With the stupidity of evil he was breaking the clew that God had dropped into
his hand even when desperately weary of his lost state. He is wrecked and helpless on the wide
ocean; a ship is coming to his rescue; and his first effort is that this vessel also may be
wrecked or greatly injured in the attempt.

There is no insanity like that of a perverted heart. The adversary of souls has so many human
victims doing his work that he can fold his hands in idleness. And yet according to the world's
practice, and we might almost say its code, Gregory purposed nothing that would be severely
condemned--nothing more than an ordinary flirtation, as common in society as idleness, love
of excitement, and that power over others which ministers to vanity. He had no wish to be able
to say anything worse of her than that under temptation she would be as vain and heartless
a coquette as many others that he knew in what is regarded as good society. He would have cut
off his right hand, as he then felt, rather than have sought to lead her into gross sin.

And yet what did Gregory purpose in regard to Annie but to take the heavenly bloom and beauty
from her character? As if they can be lovely to either God or man of whom it can be said only,
They commit no overt crime. What is the form of a rose without its beauty and fragrance? They
who tempt to evil are the real iconoclasts. They destroy God's image.

But the supreme question of the selfish heart is, "What do I want now?"

Gregory wished to satisfy himself and Miss Walton that she had no grounds for claiming any
special superiority over him, and he turned on his heel and went back to the house to carry
out his purpose. Nature, purified and beautiful by reason of its recent baptism from heaven,
had no attractions for him. Gems of moisture sparkled unseen. He was planning and scheming
to turn her head with vanity, make her quiet life of ministry to others odious, and draw her
into a fashionable flirtation.

Annie did not appear until the supper-bell summoned her, and then said, "Mr. Gregory, I hope
you will not think it rude if father and I leave you to your books and Aunt Eulie's care this
evening. It is our church prayer-meeting night, and father never likes to be absent."

"I shall miss you beyond measure. The evening will seem an age."

Something in his tone caused her to give him a quick glance, but she only said, with a smile,
"You are very polite to say so, but I imagine the last magazine will be a good substitute."

"I doubt whether there is a substitute for you, Miss Walton. I am coming to believe that your
absence would make that vacuum which nature so dreads. You shall see how good I will be this
evening, and you shall read me everything you please, even to that 'Ancient Ecclesiastical
History.' If you will only stay I will be your slave; and you shall rule me with a rod of iron
or draw me with the silken cords of kindness, according to your mood."

"It is not well to have too many moods, Mr. Gregory," said Annie, quietly. "In reply to all
your alluring reasons for staying at home I have only to say that I have promised father to
go with him; besides, I think it is my duty to go."

"'Duty' is a harsh, troublesome word to be always quoting. It is a kind of strait-jacket which
we poor moral lunatics are compelled to wear."

"'Duty' seems to me a good solid road on which one may travel safely. One never knows where
the side paths lead: into the brambles or a morass like enough."

"Indeed, Miss Walton, such austerity is not becoming to your youth and beauty."

"What am I to think of your sincerity when you speak of my beauty, Mr. Gregory?"

"Beauty is a question of taste," answered Gregory, gallantly. "It is settled by no rigid rules
or principles, but by the eyes of the observer."

"Oh! I understand now. My beauty this evening is the result of your bad taste."

"Calling it 'bad' does not make it so. Well, since you will not remain at home with me, will
you not let me go with you to the prayer- meeting? If I'm ever to join your church, it is time
I entered on the initiating mysteries."

"I think a book will do you more good in your present mood."

"What a low estimate you make of the 'means of grace'! Why, certain of your own poets have
said, 'And fools who came to scoff remained to pray.'"

"The quotation does not apply to you, Mr. Gregory. For, even if you can doubt the power and
truth of Christianity, the memory of your childhood will prevent you from scoffing at it."

A sudden shadow came across his face, but after a moment he said, in his old tones:

"Will you not let me go to the prayer-meeting?"

"Father will be glad to have you go with us, if you think it prudent to venture out in the
night air."

"Prudence to the dogs! What is the use of living if we cannot do as we please? But will you
be glad to have me go?"

"That depends upon your motives."

"If I should confess you wouldn't let me go," he replied with a bow. "But I will try to be
as good as possible, just to reward your kindness."

The rest of the family now joined them in the supper-room, and during the meal Walter exerted
himself to show how entertaining he could be if he chose. Anecdotes, incidents of travel, graphic
sketches of society, and sallies of wit, made an hour pass before any one was aware.

Even the children listened with wondering eyes, and Mr. Walton and Miss Eulie were delighted
with the vivacity of their guest. Annie apparently had no reason to complain of him, for his
whole manner toward her during the hour was that of delicately sustained compliment. When she
spoke he listened with deference, and her words usually had point and meaning. He also gave
to her remarks the best interpretation of which they were capable, and by skilfully drawing
her out made her surpass even herself, so that Miss Eulie said, "Why, Annie, there surely is
some witchcraft about. You and Mr. Gregory are as brilliant as fireworks."

"It's all Miss Walton's work, I assure you," said Gregory. "As Pat declared, 'I'm not meself
any more,' and shall surprise you, sir, by asking if I may go to the prayer-meeting. Miss Walton
says I can if I will behave myself. The last time I went to the old place I made faces at the
girls. I suppose that would be wrong."

"That is the sin of our age--making faces," said Annie. "Many have two, and some can make for
themselves even more."

"Now that was a barbed arrow," said Gregory, looking at her keenly. "Did you let it fly at
a venture?"

"Bless me!" said Mr. Walton, rising hastily, "we should have been on the road a quarter of
an hour ago. You mustn't be so entertaining another prayer-meeting night, Mr. Gregory. Of course
we shall be glad to have you accompany us if you feel well enough. I give you both but five
minutes before joining me at the wagon."

Walter again mounted the stairs with something of his old buoyancy, and Annie followed, looking
curiously after him.

It was not in human nature to be indifferent to that most skilful flattery which can be addressed
to woman--the recognition of her cleverness, and the enhancing of it by adroit and suggestive
questions--and yet all his manner was tinged by a certain insincere gallantry, rather than
by a manly, honest respect. She vaguely felt this, though she could not distinctly point it
out. He puzzled her. What did he mean, and at what was he aiming?

CHAPTER XI

A DRINKING-SONG AT A PRAYER-MEETING

Having failed in his attempt to induce Annie to remain at home, Gregory resolved that the prayer-meeting
should not be one of quiet devotion. Mr. Walton made him, as an invalid, take the back seat
with Annie, while he sat with the driver, and Gregory, after a faint show of resistance, gladly
complied.

"It's chilly. Won't you give me half of your shawl?" he said to her.

"You may have it all," she replied, about to take it off.

"No, I'll freeze first. Do the brethren and sisters sit together?"

"No," she answered, laughing, "we have got in the queer way of dividing the room between us,
and the few men who attend sit on one side and we on the other."

"Oh, it's almost a female prayer-meeting then. Do the sisters pray?"

"Mr. Gregory, you are not a stranger here that you need pretend to such ignorance. I think
the meeting is conducted very much as when you were a boy."

"With this most interesting difference, that you will be there and will sing, I hope. Miss
Walton, where did you learn to sing?"

"Mainly at home."

"I should think so. Your voice is as unlike that of a public singer as you are unlike the singer
herself."

"It must seem very tame to you."

"It seems very different. We have an artificial-flower department in our store. There is no
lack of color and form there, I assure you, but after all I would prefer your rose garden in June."

"But you would probably prefer your artificial-flower department the rest of the year," said
Annie, laughing.

"Why so?"

"Our roses are annuals and are only prosaic briers after their bloom."

"Imagine them hybrid perpetuals and monthlies and you have my meaning. But your resemblance
to a rose extends even to its thorns. Your words are a little sharp sometimes."

"In the thorns the resemblance begins and ends, Mr. Gregory. I assure you I am a veritable
Scotch brier. But here we are at our destination. I wonder if you will see many old, remembered
faces."

"I shall be content in seeing yours," he replied in a low tone, pressing her hand as he assisted
her to alight.

If he could have seen the expression of her face in the darkness it would have satisfied him
that she did not receive that style of compliment like many of the belles of his acquaintance,
who would take the small change of flattery with the smiling complacency of a public door-keeper.

They were late. The good old pastor was absent, and one of the brethren was reading a chapter
in the Bible. Gregory took a seat where he could see Annie plainly, and she sat with her side
face toward him.

He watched her keenly, in order to see if she showed any consciousness of his presence. The
only evidence in his favor was a slight flush and a firmness about the lips, as if her will
was asserting itself. But soon her face had the peaceful and serious expression becoming the
place and hour, and he saw that she had no thoughts for him whatever. He was determined to
distract her attention, and by restlessness, by looking fixedly at her, sought her eye, but
only secured the notice of some young girls who thought him "badly smitten with Miss Walton."

The long chapter having been read, a hymn was given out. The gentleman who usually led the
music was also absent, and there was an ominous pause, in which the good brother's eye wandered
appealingly around the room and at last rested hopefully on Annie. She did not fail him, but,
with heightened color and voice that trembled slightly at first, "started the tune." It was
a sweet, familiar air, and she soon had the support of other voices. One after another they
joined her in widely varying degrees of melody, even as the example of a noble life will gradually
secure a number of more or less successful imitators.

Gregory had seen the appeal to her with an amused, half-comical look, but her sincere and ready
performance of the duty that had unexpectedly revealed itself rapidly changed the expression
of his face to one of respect and admiration. Distinct, and yet blending with the others, her
voice seemed both to key up and hide the little roughnesses and discords of some who perhaps
had more melody in their hearts than in their tones.

Again a divine impulse, like a flower-laden breeze sweeping into a dark and grated vault at
Greenwood, stirred Gregory's evil nature.

"Let her teach you the harmony of noble, unselfish living. Follow her in thought, feeling,
and action, as those stammering, untuned tongues do in melody, and the blight of evil will
pass from your life. Seek not to muddy and poison this clear little rill that is watering a
bit of God's world. Grant that her goodness is not real, established, and thoroughly tested--that
it is only a pretty surface picture. Seek not to blur that picture."

But the evil heart is like Sodom. Good angel-thoughts may come to it, but they are treated
with violence and driven out. His habit of cynical doubt soon returned, and his purpose to
show Miss Walton that she was a weak, vain woman after all became stronger than ever.

It seemed to have come to this, that his salvation depended on, not what Miss Walton could
say or do directly in his behalf, but upon her maintenance of a character that even a sceptical
world must acknowledge as inspired by heaven, and this, too, against a tempter of unusual skill
and tact. She might sing with resistless pathos, and argue and plead with Paul's logic and
eloquence. His nature might be stirred for a moment as a stagnant pool is agitated by the winds
of heaven, and, like the pool, he would soon settle back into his old apathy. But if she could
be made to show weakness, to stumble and fall, it would confirm him in his belief that goodness,
if it really existed, was accidental; that those whose lives were apparently free from stain
deserved no credit, because untempted; and that those who fell should be pitied rather than
blamed, since they were unfortunate rather than guilty. Anything that would quiet and satisfy
his conscience in its stern arraignment of his evil life would be welcome. The more he saw
of Miss Walton the more he felt that she would be a fair subject upon whom to test his favorite
theory. Therefore, by the time one of the brethren present had finished his homely exhortation
he was wholly bent upon carrying out his plan.

But Miss Walton sat near, as innocently oblivious of this plot against her as Eve of the serpent's
guile before the tempter and temptation came into fatal conjunction.

What thoughts for and against each other may dwell utterly hidden and unknown in the hearts
of those so near that their hands may touch! Conspiracies to compass the death that is remediless
may lurk just behind eyes that smile upon us. Of course Gregory desired no such fatal result
to follow his little experiment. Few who for their own pleasure, profit, or caprice tempt others
wish the evil to work on to the bitter end. They merely want a sufficient letting down of principle
and virtue for the accomplishment of their purpose, and then would prefer that the downward
tendency should cease or be reversed. The merchant who requires dishonorable practices of his
clerk wishes him to stop at a point which, in the world's estimation, is safe. And those who,
like Gregory, would take the bloom from woman's purity and holiness in thought and action,
that they may enjoy a questionable flirtation, would be horrified to see that woman drop into
the foul gulf of vice. With the blind egotism of selfishness, they wish merely to gratify their
present inclinations, ignoring the consequences. They are like children who think it would
be sport to see a little cataract falling over a Holland dike. Therefore, when the tide is
in they open a small channel, but are soon aghast to find that the deep sea is overwhelming
the land.

Gregory, as is usual with his kind, thought only of his own desires. When he had accomplished
these Miss Walton must take care of herself. When from seeming a sweet, pure woman she had,
by a little temptation, proved to be capable of becoming a vain flirt, he would go back to
business and dismiss her from his thoughts with the grim chuckle, "She is like the rest of us."

And thus Annie was destined to meet her mother Eve's experience; and with the energy and promptness
of evil Gregory was keenly on the alert for anything to further his purpose.

It would seem that the satanic ally in such schemes does not permit opportunity to be wanting
long. The leader of the meeting again selected a hymn, but of a peculiar metre. He read only
two lines, and then looked expectantly toward Annie, who could not at the moment think of a
tune that would answer; and while with knit brows she was bending over her book, to her unbounded
surprise she heard the hymn started by a clear, mellow tenor voice. Looking up she saw Gregory
singing as gravely as a deacon. She was sufficiently a musician to know that the air did not
belong to sacred music, though she had never heard it before.

In his watchfulness he had noted her hesitation, and glancing at the metre saw instantly that
the measure of a drinking-song he knew well would fit the words. This fell out better than
he had hoped, and with the thought, "I will jostle her out of her dignity now," he began singing
without any embarrassment, though every eye was upon him. He had been out in the world long
enough for that.

As Annie turned with a shocked and half-frightened expression toward him his eyes met hers
with a sudden gleam of drollery which was irresistible, and he had the satisfaction of seeing
her drop her head to conceal a smile. But he noticed, a moment later, that her face became
grave with disapprobation.

Having sung a stanza he looked around with an injured air, as if reproaching the others for
not joining in with him.

"The tune is not exactly familiar to us," said the good man leading the meeting, "but if the
brother will continue singing we will soon catch the air; or perhaps the brother or some one
else (with a glance at Annie) will start one better known."

Annie had a keen sense of the ludicrous, and the transition from what he had been singing to
the funereal and most inappropriate words was almost too much for her. To her impotent anger
and self-disgust she felt a hysterical desire to laugh, and only controlled herself by keeping
her head down and her lips firmly pressed together during the remainder of the brief service.

Even others who did not know Gregory could not prevent a broad smile at the incongruous hymn
he had chosen, but they unitedly wailed it through, for he persisted in singing it all in the
most dirge-like manner. They gave him credit for doing the best he could, and supposed his
unhappy choice resulted from haste and embarrassment. In the spontaneity of social meetings
people become accustomed to much that is not harmonious.

Mr. Walton was puzzled. His guest was certainly appearing in an unexpected role, and he feared
that all was not right.

After the meeting the brethren gathered round Gregory and thanked him for his assistance, and
he shook hands with them and the elderly ladies present with the manner of one who might have
been a "pillar in the temple." Many of them remembered his father and mother and supposed their
mantle had fallen on him.

An ancient "mother in Israel" thanked him that he had "started a tune that they all could sing,
instead of the new-fangled ones the young people are always getting up nowadays. But," said
she, "I wish you could learn us that pretty one you first sang, for it took my fancy amazingly.
I think I must have heard it before somewhere."

Gregory gave Annie another of his suggestive glances, that sent her out hastily into the darkness,
and a moment later he joined her at the carriage steps.

CHAPTER XII

FOILED IN ONE DIRECTION

Gregory lifted Miss Walton very tenderly into the carriage and took his place by her side,
while her father was detained by some little matter of business.

"I am not an invalid," said Annie, rather curtly.

"Indeed you are not, Miss Walton; from your super-abundance you are even giving life to me."

"I thought from your manner you feared I was about to faint," she answered, dryly.

Mr. Walton joined them and they started homeward.

"Come, Miss Annie," said Gregory (addressing her thus for the first time); "why so distant?
Was I not called a brother in the meeting? If I am a brother you are a sister. I told you I
would secure this relationship."

She did not answer him.

"I think it was too bad," he continued, "that you did not second my efforts better. You would
not help me sing either of the tunes I started."

"Mr. Gregory," said Annie, emphatically, "I will never go to a prayer- meeting with you again."

"What a rash resolve! But I confess that I preferred to have you stay at home with me."

"You have spoiled the whole evening for me."

"And you spoiled mine. So we are quits," he replied, laughingly.

"No, we are not. How can you turn sacred things into a jest?"

"I was possessed to see a smile light up the awful gravity of your face, and I feel amply repaid
in that I succeeded. It was a delicious bit of sunshine on a cloudy day."

"And I am provoked at myself beyond measure, that I could have laughed like a silly child."

"But did you not like the first tune I sang? 'Old Hundred' was selected in deference to the
wishes of the meeting."

"No, I did not like it. It was not suitable to the place and words. Though I never heard it
before, its somewhat slow movement did not prevent it from smacking of something very foreign
to a prayer- meeting."

"A most happy and inspired expression. Many a time I have smacked my lips when it was being
sung over the best of wine."

"Was it a drinking-song, then?" she asked, quickly.

"What will you do with me if I say it was?"

"Mr. Gregory, I would not have thought this even of you."

"Even of me! That is complimentary. I now learn what a low estimate you have of me. But see
how unjust you are. The musical commissaries of the church militant are ever saying, 'It's
a pity the devil should have all the good music,' and so half the Sunday-school tunes, and
many sung in churches, have had a lower origin than my drinking-song. I assure you that the
words are as fine as the air. Why have I not as good a right to steal a tune from the devil
as the rest of them?"

"It's the motive that makes all the difference," said Annie. "But I fear that in this case
the devil suffered no loss."

"I'm sure my motive was not bad. I only wished to see a bonny smile light up your face."

Before she could reply the carriage stopped at Mr. Walton's door, and with Mr. Gregory she
passed into the cosey parlor. Her father did not immediately join them.

As Gregory looked at her while she took off her wraps, he thought, "By Jove! she's handsome
if she is not pretty."

In fact Annie's face at that time would have attracted attention anywhere. The crisp air had
given her a fine color. Her eyes glowed with suppressed excitement and anger, while the firm
lines about the mouth indicated that when she spoke it would be decidedly. In spite of herself
the audacity, cleverness, and wickedness of this stranger had affected her greatly. As he threw
off his moodiness, as he revealed himself by word and action, she saw that he was no ordinary
character, but a thorough man of the world, and with some strange caprices. The suspicion crossed
her mind that he might be not only in peril himself but also a source of danger. She had determined
during the ride home that even though he meant no slur upon sacred things he should carry his
mocking spirit no more into them. Therefore, after a moment's thought, she turned toward him
with a manner of mingled frankness and dignity, and said, "Mr. Gregory, I regret what has occurred
this evening. I have a painful sense of the ludicrous, and you have taken unfair advantage
of it. I am usually better and happier for going to our simple little meeting, but now I can
think of the whole hour only with pain. I think I am as mirth-loving as the majority of my
age, and perhaps more so. I say truly that my heart is very light and happy. But, Mr. Gregory,
we look at certain things very differently from you. While I would not for a moment have you
think that religion brings into my life gloom and restraint--quite the reverse--still it gives
me great pain when anything connected with my faith is made a matter of jest. These things
are sacred to us, and I know my father would feel deeply grieved if he understood you this
evening. Do you not see? It appears to us differently from what it does to you and perhaps
to the world at large. These things are to us what your mother's memory is to you. I would
sooner cut off my right hand than trifle with that."

Gregory had been able to maintain his quizzical look of mischief till she named his mother;
then his face changed instantly. A flush of shame crossed it, and after a moment, with an expression
something like true manhood, he stepped forward and took Annie's hand, saying, "Miss Walton,
I sincerely ask your pardon. I did not know--I could not believe that you felt as you do. I
will give you no further reason to complain of me on this ground. I hope you will forgive me."

She at once relented, and said:

     "'Who by repentance is not satisfied
      Is not of heaven nor earth.'

There is an apt quotation from your favorite Shakespeare."

"You seem a delightful mixture of both, Miss Walton."

"If you were a better judge, sir, you would know that the earthly ingredient is too great.
But that is in your favor, for I am sufficiently human to make allowance for human folly."

"I shall tax your charity to the utmost."

As Gregory sat in his arm-chair recalling the events of the day before retiring, he thought:
"Well, my attempt has failed signally. While by her involuntary smile she showed that she was
human, she has also managed this evening to prove that she is perfectly sincere in her religion,
and to render it impossible for me to assail her in that direction again. As the old hymn goes,
I must 'let her religious hours alone.' But how far her religion or superstition will control
her action is another question. I have learned both at home and abroad that people can be very
religious and very sincere in matters of faith and ceremony, and jealous of any hand stretched
out to touch their sacred ark, but when through with the holy business they can live the life
of very ordinary mortals. This may be true of Miss Walton. At any rate I have made a mistake
in showing my hand somewhat at a prayer- meeting, for women are so tenacious on religious matters.
Deference, personal attention, and compliments--these are the irresistible weapons. These inflate
pride and vanity to such a degree that a miserable collapse is necessary. And yet I must be
careful, for she is not like some belles I know, who have the swallow of a whale for flattery.
She is too intelligent, too refined, to take compliments as large and glaring as a sunflower.
Something in the way of a moss-rose bud will accomplish more. I will appear as if falling under
her power; as if bewitched by her charms. Nothing pleases your plain girls more than to be
thought beautiful. I shall have her head turned in a week. I am more bent than ever on teaching
this little Puritan that she and I live upon the same level."

Saturday morning dawned clear and bracing, and the grass was white with hoar-frost. The children
came in to breakfast with glowing cheeks and hair awry, crying excitedly in the same breath
that they "had been to the chestnut trees and that Jack had opened the burrs all night."

In answer to their clamorous petitions a one-o'clock dinner was promised, and Aunt Annie was
to accompany them on a nutting expedition with Jeff as pioneer to thresh and club the trees.

"Can I go too?" Gregory asked of the children.

"I suppose so," said Johnny, rather coldly; "if Aunt Annie is willing."

"You can go with me," said kind-hearted little Susie.

"Now I can go whether Aunt Annie is willing or not," said Gregory, with mock defiance at the boy.

He glanced at his aunt's face to gather how he should take this, but she settled the matter
satisfactorily to him by saying, "You shall be my beau, and Mr. Gregory will be Susie's."

"Good, good!" exclaimed Susie. "I've got a beau already;" and she beamed upon Gregory in a
way that made them all laugh.

"'Coming events cast their shadows before,' you perceive, Miss Walton," said he, meaningly.

"Sometimes the events themselves are but shadows," she replied, dryly.

"Now that is severe upon the beaux. How about the belles?" he asked, quickly.

"I have nothing to say against my own sex, sir."

"That is not fair. Of course I can say nothing adverse."

"If you should say what you think, I fear we should be little inclined to cry with Shylock,
'A Daniel come to judgment!'"

"You have a dreadful opinion of me, Miss Walton. I wish you would teach me how I can change it."

"You discovered so much in a chestnut burr the day you came I should not be surprised if you
could find anything else there that you wish to know."

"I shall not look in burrs for chestnuts this afternoon, but for something else far more important."

Gregory spent the forenoon quietly in his own room reading, in order that he might have all
the vigor possible for the ramble. And to Annie, as housekeeper, Saturday morning brought many
duties.

By two o'clock the nutting expedition was organized, and with Jeff in advance, carrying a short
ladder and a long limber pole, the party started for the hills. At first Johnny, oppressed
with his dignity as Aunt Annie's "beau," stalked soberly at her side, and Susie also claimed
Gregory according to agreement, and insisted on keeping hold of his hand.

He submitted with such grace as he could muster, for children were tiresome to him, and he
wanted to talk to Miss Walton, without "little pitchers with large ears" around.

Annie smiled to herself at his half-concealed annoyance and his wooden gallantry to Susie,
but she understood child life well enough to know that the present arrangement would not last
very long. And she was right. They had hardly entered the shady lane leading to the trees before
a chipmonk, with its shrill note of exclamation at unexpected company, started out from some
leaves near and ran for its hole.

Away went Aunt Annie's beau after it, and Susie also, quite oblivious of her first possession
in that line, joined in the pursuit. There was an excited consultation above the squirrel's
retreat, and then Johnny took out his knife and cut a flexible rod with which to investigate
the "robber's den."

Gregory at once joined Annie, saying, "Since the beau of your choice has deserted you, will
you accept of another?"

"Yes, till he proves alike inconstant."

"I will see to that. A burr shall be my emblem."

"Or I do," she added, laughing.

"Now the future is beyond my power."

"Perhaps it is anyway. Johnny was bent upon being a true knight. You may see something that
will be to you what the chipmonk was to him."

"And such is your opinion of man's constancy? Miss Walton, you are more of a cynic than I am."

"Indeed! Do women dwell in your fancy as fixed stars?"

"Fixed stars are all suns, are they not? I know of one with wonderful powers of attraction,"
said he, with a significant glance.

"Does she live in New York?" quietly asked Annie.

"You know well she does not. She is a votaress of nature, and, as I said, I shall search in
every burr for the hidden clew to her favor."

"You had better look for chestnuts, sir."

"Chestnuts! Fit food for children and chipmonks. I am in quest of the only manna that ever
fell from heaven. Have you read Longfellow's 'Golden Legend,' Miss Walton?"

"Yes," she replied, with a slight contraction of the brow as if the suggestion were not pleasing.

The children now came running toward them and wished to resume their old places. "No, sir,"
said Walter, decisively. "You deserted your lady's side and your place is filled; and Susie--

     "'Thou fair, false one,'

--you renounced me for a chipmonk. My wounded heart has found solace in another."

Johnny received this charge against his gallantry with a red face and eyes that began to dilate
with anger, while Susie looked at Gregory poutingly and said, "I don't like big beaux. I think
chipmonks are ever so much nicer."

The laugh that followed broke the force of the storm that was brewing; and Annie, by saying,
"See, children, Jeff is climbing the tree on top of the hill; I wonder who will get the first
nuts," caused the wind to veer round from the threatening quarter, and away they scampered
with grievances all forgotten.

"If grown-up children could only forget their troubles as easily!" sighed Gregory. "Miss Walton,
you are gifted with admirable tact. Your witchery has cleared up another storm."

"They have not forgotten," said Annie, ignoring the compliment--"they have only been diverted
from their trouble. Children can do by nature what we should from intelligent choice--turn
away the mind from painful subjects to those that are pleasing. You don't catch me brooding
over trouble when there are a thousand pleasant things to think of."

"That is easier said than done, Miss Walton. I read on your smooth brow that you have had few
serious troubles, and, as you say, 'you have a thousand pleasant things to think of.' But with
others it may be very different. Some troubles have a terrible magnetism that draws the mind
back to them as if by a malign spell, and there are no 'pleasant things to think of.'"

"No 'pleasant things'? Why, Mr. Gregory! The universe is very wide."

"Present company excepted," replied he gallantly. "But what do I care for the universe? As
you say, it is 'very wide'--a big, uncomfortable place, in which one is afraid of getting lost."

"I am not," said Annie, gently.

"How so?"

"It's all my Father's house. I am never for a moment lost sight of. Wherever I am, I am like
a little child playing outside the door while its mother, unseen, is watching it from the window."

He looked at her keenly to see if she were perfectly sincere. Her face had the expression of
a child, and the thought flashed across him, "If she is so watched and guarded, how vain are
my attempts!"

But he only said with a shrug, "It would be a pity to dissipate your happy superstition, Miss
Walton, but after what I have seen and experienced in the world it would seem more generally
true that the mother forgot her charge, left the window, and the child was run over by the
butcher's cart."

"Do you think it vain confidence," said Annie, earnestly, "when I say that you could not dissipate
what you term my 'superstition,' any more than you could argue me out of my belief in my good
old father's love?"

CHAPTER XIII

INTERPRETING CHESTNUT BURRS

The conversation had taken a turn that Gregory wished to avoid, so he said: "Miss Walton, you
regard me as wretched authority on theology, and therefore my opinions will go for nothing.
Suppose we join the children on the hill, for I am most anxious to commence the search for
the clew to your favor. Give me your hand, that as your attendant I may at least appear to
assist you in climbing, though I suppose you justly think you could help me more than I can you."

"And if I can, why should I not?" asked Annie, kindly.

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I would crawl up first. But thanks to your reviving influences, I am
not so far gone as that."

"Then you would not permit a woman to reach out a helping hand to you? Talk not against Turks
and Arabs. How do Christian men regard us?"

"But you look upon me as a 'heathen.'"

"Beg your pardon, I do not."

"Miss Walton, give your honest opinion of me--just what you think."

"Will you do the same of me?"

"Oh, certainly!"

"No, do not answer in that tone. On your honor."

Gregory was now caught. If he agreed he must state his doubts of her real goodness; his low
estimate of women in general which led to his purpose to tempt her. This would not only arm
her against his efforts, but place him in a very unpleasant light. "I beat a retreat, Miss
Walton. I am satisfied that your opinion would discourage me utterly."

"You need have no fears of that kind," she said; "although my opinion would not be flattering
it would be most encouraging."

"No, Miss Walton, I am not to be caught. My every glance and word reveal my opinion of you,
while yours of me amounts to what I used to hear years ago: 'You are a bad boy now, but may
become a good one.' Come, give me your hand."

As she complied she gave him a quick, keen look. Her intuition told her of something hidden,
and he puzzled her.

Her hand was ungloved, and he thought, "When have I clasped such a hand before? It could help
a Hercules. At any rate he would like to hold it, for it is alive."

There is as much diversity of character in hands as in faces. Some are very white and shapely,
and a diamond flashes prettily upon them, but having said this you have said all. Others suggest
honest work and plenty of it, and for such the sensible will ever have a genuine respect. There
are some hands that make you think of creatures whose blood is cold. A lady's hand in society
often suggests feebleness, lack of vitality. It is a thing to touch decorously, and if feeling
betray you into giving a hearty grasp and pressure, you find that you are only causing pain
and reducing the member to a confused jumble of bones and sinews. There are hands that suggest
fancy-work, light crochet needles, and neuralgia.

Annie's hand was not one that a sculptor would care to copy, though he would find no great
fault with it; but a sculptor would certainly take pleasure in shaking hands with her--the
pleasure that is the opposite of our shrinking from taking the hand of the dead. It was soft
and delicate to the pressure, and yet firm. It reminded one of silk drawn over steel, and was
all electric and throbbing with life. You felt that it could give you the true grasp of friendship--that
it had power to do more than barely cling to something--that it could both help and sustain,
yet its touch would be gentleness itself beside the couch of suffering.

When they had reached the brow of the hill he was much more exhausted than she, and sat down
panting.

"Miss Walton," he asked, "do you not despise a feeble man?"

"What kind of feebleness do you mean?"

"The weakness that makes me sit pale and panting here, while you stand there glowing with life
and vigor, a veritable Hebe."

"All your compliments cannot balance that imputation against me. Such weakness awakens my pity,
sympathy, and wish to help."

"Ah! the emotions you would bestow on a beggar--very agreeable to a man. Well, what kind of
feebleness do you despise?"

"I think I should despise a feeble, vacillating Hercules most of all-- a burly, assuming sort
of person, who could be made a tool of, and led to do what he knew to be mean and wrong."

"You must despise a great many people then."

"No, I do not. Honestly, Mr. Gregory, I have no right to despise any one. I was only giving
the reverse of my ideal man. But I assure you I share too deeply in humanity's faults to be
very critical."

"I am delighted to hear, Miss Walton, that you share in our fallen humanity, for I was beginning
to doubt it, and you can well understand that I should be dreadfully uncomfortable in the presence
of perfection."

"If you could escape all other sources of discomfort as surely as this one, you would be most
happy," replied Annie, with heightened color. "I shall ever think you are satirical when you
speak in such style."

"A truce, Miss Walton; only, in mercy to my poor mortality, be as human as you can. Though
you seem to suspect me of a low estimate of your sex, I much prefer women to saints and Madonnas.
I am going to look for the burr."

This was adroitness itself on the part of Gregory, for, of all things, sensible Annie, conscious
of faults and many struggles, did not wish to give the impression that she thought herself
approaching perfection. And yet he had managed to make her sensitive on that point, and given
her a strong motive to relax strict rules of duty, and act "like other people," as he would say.

Jeff's limber pole was now doing effective service. With many a soft thud upon the sward and
leaves the burrs rained around, while the detached chestnuts rattled down like hail. The children
were careering about this little tempest of Jeff's manufacture in a state of wild glee, dodging
the random burrs, and snatching what nuts they could in safety on the outskirts of the prickly
shower. At last the tree was well thrashed, and bad the appearance of a school-boy bully who,
after bristling with threats and boasts for a long time, suddenly meets his master and is left
in a very meek and plucked condition.

But the moment Jeff's pole ceased its sturdy strokes there was a rush for the spoils, the children
awakening the echoes with their exclamations of delight as they found the ground covered with
what was more precious to them than gold. Even Gregory's sluggish pulses tingled and quickened
at the well-remembered scene, and he felt a little of their excitement. For the moment he determined
to be a boy again, and running into the charmed circle, picked away as fast as any of them
till his physical weakness painfully reminded him that his old tireless activity had passed
away, perhaps forever.

He leaned against the trunk of the tree and noted with something of an artist's eye the pretty
picture. The valley beneath was beginning to glow with the richest October tints, in the midst
of which was his old home, that to his affection seemed like a gem set in gold, ruby, and emerald.
The stream appeared white and silvery as seen through openings of the bordering trees, and
in the distance the purple haze and mountains blended together, leaving it uncertain where
the granite began, as in Gregory's mind fact and fancy were confusedly mingling in regard to
Miss Walton.

And he soon turned from even that loved and beautiful landscape to her as an object of piquant
interest, and the pleasure of analyzing and testing her character, and--well, some hidden fascination
of her own, caused a faint stir of excitement at his heart, even as the October air and exercise
had just tinged his pale cheeks.

But Miss Walton reminded him of a young sugar maple that he had noticed, all aflame, from his
window that morning, so rich and high was her color, as, still intent upon the thickly scattered
nuts, she followed the old unspent childish impulse to gather now as she had done when of Susie's
age. With a half-wondering smile Gregory watched her intent expression, so like that of the
other children, and thought, "Well, she is the freshest and most unhackneyed girl I have ever
met for one who knows so much. It seems true, as she said, that she draws her life from nature
and will never grow old. Now she is a child with those children, looking and acting like them.
A moment later she will be a self-possessed young lady, with a quick, trained intellect that
I can scarcely cope with. And yet in each and every character she seems so real and vital that
even I, in spite of myself, feel compelled to admit her truth. Her life is like a glad, musical
mountain stream, while I am a stagnant pool that she passes and leaves behind. I wonder if
it is possible for one life to be awakened and quickened by another. I wonder if her vital
force would be strong enough to drag another on who had almost lost the power to follow. It
is said that young fresh blood can be infused directly into the veins of the old and feeble.
Can the same be true of moral forces, and a glad zest and interest in life be breathed into
the jaded, cloyed, ennui-cursed spirit of one who regards existence with dull eye, sluggish
pulse, and heart of lead? It seems to me that if any one could have such power it would be
that girl there with her intense vitality and subtle connection with nature, which, as she
says, is ever young and vigorous. And yet I propose to reveal her to herself as a weak, vain
creature, whose fair seeming like a pasteboard castle falls before the breath of flattery.
By Jove, I half hope I shan't succeed, and yet to satisfy myself I shall carry the test to
the utmost limit."

In her absorbed search for nuts, Annie had approached the trunk of the tree, and was stooping
almost at Gregory's feet without noticing him. Suddenly she turned up a burr whose appearance
so interested her that she stood up to examine it, and then became conscious of his intent gaze.

"There you stand," she said, "cool and superior, criticising and laughing at me as a great
overgrown child."

"If you had looked more closely you would have seen anything rather than cool criticism in
my face. I wish you could tell me your secret, Miss Walton. What is your hidden connection
with Nature, that her strong, beautiful life flows so freely into yours?"

"You would not believe me if I told you."

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I should be inclined to believe anything you told me, you seem so real.
But, pardon me, you have in your hand the very burr I have been looking vainly for. Perhaps
in it I may find the coveted clew to your favor. It may winningly suggest to you my meaning,
while plain, bald words would only repel. If I could only interpret Nature as you breathe her
spirit I might find that the autumn leaves were like illuminated pages, and every object--even
such an insignificant one as this burr--an inspired illustration. When men come to read Nature's
open book, publishers may despair. If I wished to tell you how I would dwell in your thoughts,
what poet has written anything equal to this half-open burr? It portrays our past, it gives
our present relations, and suggests the future; only, like all parables, it must not be pressed
too far, and too much prominence must not be given to some mere detail. These prickly outward
pointing spines represent the reserve and formality which keep comparative strangers apart.
But now the burr is half-open, revealing its heart of silk and down. So if one could get past
the barriers which you, alike with all, turn toward an indifferent or unfriendly world, a kindliness
would be found that would surround a cherished friend as these silken sides envelop this sole
and favored chestnut. Again, note that the burr is half-open, indicating, I hope, the progress
we have made toward such friendship. I have no true friend in the wide world that I can trust,
and I would like to believe that your regard, like this burr, is opening toward me. The final
suggestion that I should draw may seem selfish, and yet is it not natural? This chestnut dwells
alone in the very centre of the burr. We do not like to share a supreme friendship. There are
some in whose esteem we would be first."

When Gregory finished he was half-frightened at his words, for in developing his fanciful parallel
in the bold style of gallantry he had learned to employ toward the belles of the ball-room,
and from a certain unaccountable fascination that Annie herself had for him, he had said more
than he meant.

"Good heavens!" he thought, "if she should take this for a declaration and accept me on the
spot, I should then be in the worst scrape of my sorry life."

Miss Walton's manner rather puzzled him. Her heightened color and quickened breathing were
alarming, while the contraction of her brow and the firmness of her lips, together with an
intent look on the chestnut in the centre of the burr, rather than a languishing look at him
or at nothing, were more assuring. She perplexed him still more when, as her only response
to all this sentiment, she asked, "Mr. Gregory, will you lend me your penknife?"

Without a word he handed it to her, and she at the same time took the burr from his hand, and
daintily plucking out the chestnut tossed the burr rather contemptuously away. "Mr. Gregory,
if I understand your rather far-fetched and forced interpretation of this little 'parable of
nature,' you chose to represent yourself by this great lonely chestnut occupying the space
where three might have grown. On observing this emblematic nut closely I detect something that
may also have a place in your 'parable';" and she pushed aside the little quirl at the small
end of the nut, which partially concealed a worm-hole, and cutting through the shell showed
the destroyer in the very heart of the kernel.

There was nothing far-fetched in this suggestion of nature, and he saw--and he understood that
Miss Walton saw--evil enthroned in the very depths of his soul. The revelation of the hateful
truth was so sudden and sharp that his face darkened with involuntary pain and anger. It seemed
to him that, by the simple act of showing him the worm-infested chestnut, she had rejected
anything approaching even friendship, and had also given him a good but humiliating reason
why. He lost his self-possession and forgot that he deserved a stinging rebuke for his insincerity.
He would have turned away in coldness and resentment. His visit might have come to an abrupt
termination, had not Annie, with that delicate, womanly tact which was one of her most marked
characteristics, interrupted him as he was about to say something to the effect, "Miss Walton,
since you are so much holier than I, it were better that I should contaminate the air you breathe
no longer."

She looked into his clouded face with an open smile, and said, "Mr. Gregory, you have been
unfortunate in the choice of a burr. Now let me choose for you;" and she began looking around
for one suited to her taste and purpose.

This gave him time to recover himself and to realize the folly of quarrelling or showing any
special feeling in the matter. After a moment he was only desirous of some pretext for laughing
it off, but how to manage it he did not know, and was inwardly cursing himself as a blundering
fool, and no match for this child of nature.

Annie soon came toward him, saying, "Perhaps this burr will suggest better meanings. You see
it is wide open. That means perfect frankness. There are three chestnuts here instead of one.
We must be willing to share the regard of others. One of these nuts has the central place.
As we come to know people well, we usually find some one occupying the supreme place in their
esteem, and though we may approach closely we should not wish to usurp what belongs to another.
Under Jeff's vigorous blows the burr and its contents have had a tremendous downfall, but they
have not parted company. True friends should stick together in adversity. What do you think
of my interpretation?"

"I think you are a witch, beyond doubt, and if you had lived a few centuries ago, you would
have been sent to heaven in a chariot of fire."

"Really, Mr. Gregory, you give me a hot answer, but it is with such a smiling face that I will
take no exception. Let us slowly follow Jeff and the children along the brow of the hill to
the next tree. The fact is I am a little tired."

What controversy could a man have with a pretty and wearied girl? Gregory felt like a boy who
had received a deserved whipping and yet was compelled and somewhat inclined to act very amiably
toward the donor. But he was fast coming to the conclusion that this unassuming country girl
was a difficult subject on which to perform his experiment. He was learning to have a wholesome
respect for her that was slightly tinged with fear, and doubts of success in his plot against
her grew stronger every moment. And yet the element of persistence was large in his character,
and he could not readily give over his purpose, though his cynical confidence had vanished.
He now determined to observe her closely and discover if possible her weak points. He still
held to the theory that flattery was the most available weapon, though he saw he could employ
it no longer in the form of fulsome and outspoken compliment. The innate refinement and truthfulness
of Annie's nature revolted at broad gallantry and adulation. He believed that he must reverse
the tactics he usually employed in society, but not the principles. Therefore he resolved that
his flattery should be delicate, subtle, manifested in manner rather than in words. He would
seem submissive; he would humbly wear the air of a conquered one. He would delicately maintain
the "I-am-at- your-mercy" attitude.

These thoughts flashed through his mind as they passed along the brow of the hill, which at
every turn gave them a new and beautiful landscape. But vales in Eden would not have held his
attention then. To his perplexity this new acquaintance had secured his undivided interest.
He felt that he ought to be angry at her and yet was not. He felt that a man who had seen as
much of the world as he should be able to play with this little country girl as with a child;
but he was becoming convinced that, with all his art, he was no match for her artlessness.

In the interpretation of the burr of her own choice, Annie had suggested that the central and
supreme place in her heart was already occupied, and his thoughts recurred frequently to that
fact with uneasiness. The slightest trace of jealousy, even as the merest twinge of pain is
often precursor of serious disease, indicated the power Miss Walton might gain over one who
thought himself proof against all such influence. But he tried to satisfy himself by thinking,
"It is her father who occupies the first place in her affections."

Then a moment later with a mental protest at his folly, "What do I care who has the first place?
It's well I do not, for she would not permit such a reprobate as I, with evil in my heart like
that cursed worm in the chestnut, to have any place worth naming--unless I can introduce a
little canker of evil in her heart also. I wish I could. That would bring us nearer together
and upon the same level." Annie saw the landscapes. She looked away from the man by her side
and for a few moments forgot him. The scenes upon which she was gazing were associated with
another, and she ardently wished that that other and more favored one could exchange places
with Gregory. Her eyes grew dreamy and tender as she recalled words spoken in days gone by,
when, her heart thrilling with a young girl's first dream of love, she had leaned upon Charles
Hunting's arm, and listened to that sweetest music of earth, all the more enchanting when broken
and incoherent; and Hunting, with all his coolness and precision in Wall Street, had been excessively
nervous and unhappy in his phraseology upon one occasion, and tremblingly glad to get any terms
from the girl who seemed a child beside him. Annie would not permit an engagement to take place.
Hunting was a distant relative. She had always liked him very much, but was not sure she loved
him. She was extremely reluctant to leave her father, and was not ready for a speedy marriage;
so she frankly told him that he had no rival, nor was there a prospect of any, but she would
not bind him, or permit herself to be bound at that time. If they were fated for each other
the way would eventually be made perfectly clear.

He was quite content, especially as Mr. Walton gave his hearty approval to the match, and he
regarded the understanding as a virtual engagement. He wanted Annie to wear the significant
ring, saying that it should not be regarded as binding, but she declined to do so.

Nearly two years had passed, and, while she put him off, she satisfied him that he was steadily
gaining the place that he wished to possess in her affections. He was gifted with much tact
and did not press his suit, but quietly acted as if the matter were really settled, and it
were only a question of time. Annie had also come to feel in the same way. She did not see
a very great deal of him, though he wrote regularly, and his letters were admirable. He became
her ideal man and dwelt in her imagination as a demi-god. To the practical mind of this American
girl his successes in the vast and complicated transactions of business were as grand as the
achievements of any hero. Her father had been a merchant, and she inherited a respect for the
calling. Her father also often assured her that her lover bade fair to lead in commercial circles.

"Hunting has both nerve and prudence," he was wont to say; and to impetuous Annie these qualities,
combined with Christian principles, formed her very ideal man.

Her lover took great pains not to undeceive her as to his character, and indeed, with the infatuation
of his class, hoped that, when he had amassed the fortune that glittered ever just before him,
he could assume, in some princely mansion, the princely, knightly soul with which she had endowed
him.

So he did not press matters. Indeed in his rapid accumulation of money he scarcely wished any
interruption, and Annie thought all the more of him that he was not dawdling around making
love half the time. There was also less danger of disenchanting her by his presence, for woman's
perception is quick.

But now she inwardly contrasted her strong, masterful knight, "sans peur et sans reproche,"
as she believed, with the enfeebled, shrunken man at her side. Gregory suffered dreadfully
by the comparison. The worm-eaten chestnut seemed truly emblematic, and in spite of herself
her face lighted up with exultation and joy that the man of her choice was a man, and not one
upon whom she could not lean for even physical support.

Gregory caught her expression and said, quickly: "Your face is full of sudden gleams. Tell
me what you are thinking about."

She blushed deeply in the consciousness of her thoughts, but after a moment said, "I do not
believe in the confessional."

He looked at her keenly, saying, "I wish you did and that I were your father confessor."

She replied, laughing, "You are neither old nor good enough. If I were of that faith I should
require one a great deal older and better than myself. But here we are at our second tree,
which Jeff has just finished. I am going to be a child again and gather nuts as before. I hope
you will follow suit, and not stand leaning against the tree laughing at me."

CHAPTER XIV

"A WELL-MEANIN' MAN"

The western horizon vied with the autumn foliage as at last they turned homeward. Their path
led out upon the main road some distance above the house, and, laden with the spoils that would
greatly diminish the squirrels' hoard for the coming winter, they sauntered along slowly, from
a sense of both weariness and leisure.

They soon reached the cottage of the lame old man who had fired such a broadside of lurid words
at Gregory, as he stood on the fence opposite. With a crutch under one arm and leaning on his
gate, Daddy Tuggar seemed awaiting them, and secured their attention by the laconic salutation,
"Evenin'!"

"Why, Daddy," exclaimed Annie, coming quickly toward him. "I am real glad to see you so spry
and well. It seems to me that you are getting young again;" and she shook the old man's hand
heartily.

"Now don't praise my old graveyard of a body, Miss Annie. My sperit is pert enough, but it's
all buried up in this old clumsy, half-dead carcass. The worms will close their mortgage on
it purty soon."

"But they haven't a mortgage on your soul," said Annie, in a low tone. "You remember what I
said to you a few days ago."

"Now bless you, Miss Annie, but it takes you to put in a 'word in season.' The Lord knows I'm
a well-meanin' man, but I can't seem to get much furder. I've had an awful 'fall from grace,'
my wife says. I did try to stop swearin', but that chap there--"

"Oh, excuse me," interrupted Annie. "Mr. Gregory, this is our friend and neighbor Mr. Tuggar.
I was under the impression that you were acquainted," she added, with a mischievous look at
her companion.

"We are. I have met this gentleman before," he replied, with a wry face. "Pardon the interruption,
Mr. Tuggar, and please go on with your explanation."

"Mr. Gregory, I owe you a 'pology. I'm a well-meanin' man, and if I do any one a wrong I'm
willin' to own it up and do the square thing. But I meant right by you and I meant right by
John Walton when I thought you was stealin' his apples. I couldn't hit yer with a stun and
knock yer off the fence, as I might a dozen years ago, so I took the next hardest thing I could
lay hands on. If I'd known that you was kinder one of the family my words would have been rolls
of butter."

"Well, Mr. Tuggar, it has turned out very well, for I would rather you had fired what you did
than either stones or butter."

"Now my wife would say that that speech showed you was 'totally depraved.' And this brings
me back to my 'fall from grace.' Now, yer see, to please my wife some and Miss Eulie more,
I was tryin' cussed hard to stop swearin'--"

"Didn't you try a little for my sake, too?" interrupted Annie.

"Lord bless you, child; I don't have to try when you're around, for I don't think swearin'.
Most folks rile me, and I get a-thinkin' swearin', and then 'fore I know it busts right out.
You could take the wickedest cuss livin' to heaven in spite of himself if you would stay right
by him all the time."

"I should 'rile' you, too, if I were with you long, for I get 'riled' myself sometimes."

"Do you, now?" asked Mr. Tuggar, looking at her admiringly. "Well, I'm mighty glad to hear it."

"O Daddy! glad to hear that I do wrong?"

"Can't help it, Miss Annie. I kinder like to know you're a little bit of a sinner. 'Tain't
often I meet with a sinner, and I kind o' like 'em. My wife says she's a 'great sinner,' but
she means she's a great saint. 'Twouldn't do for me to tell her she's a 'sinner.' Then Miss
Eulie says she's a 'great sinner,' and between you and me that's the only fib I ever caught
Miss Eulie in. Good Lord! there's no more sin in Miss Eulie's heart than there is specks of
dirt on the little white ruff she wears about her neck that looks like the snow we had last
April around the white hyacinths. She's kind of a half-sperit anyhow. Now your goodness, Miss
Annie, is another kind. Your cheeks are so red, and eyes so black, and arms so round and fat--I've
seen 'em when you was over here a-beatin' up good things for the old man--that you make me
think of red and pink posies. I kinder think you might be a little bit of a sinner--just enough,
you know, to make you understand how I and him there can be mighty big ones, and not be too
hard on us for it."

"Mr. Tuggar, you are the man of all others to plead my cause."

"Now look here, young gentleman, you must do yer own pleadin'. It would be a 'sinful waste
of time' though, as my wife would say--eh, Miss Annie? I never had no luck at pleadin' but
once, and that was the worst luck of all."

Annie's face might well suggest "red posies" during the last remarks, and its expression was
divided between a frown and a laugh.

"But I want you to understand," continued Daddy Tuggar, straightening himself up with dignity,
and addressing Gregory, "that I'm not a mean cuss. All who know me know I'm a well-meanin'
man. I try to do as I'd be done by. If I'm going through a man's field and find his bars down,
so the cattle would get in the corn, I'd put 'em up--"

"Yes, Daddy, that is what you always say," interrupted Annie; "but you can't go through the
fields any more and put up bars. You should try to do the duties that belong to your present
state."

"But I've got the sperit to put up a man's bars, and it's all the same as if I did put 'em
up," answered the old man, with some irritation. "Miss Eulie and the rest of yer is allers
sayin' we must have the sperit of willingness to give up the hull world and suffer martyrdom
on what looks in the picture like a big gridiron. She says we must have the sperit of them
who was cold and hungry and the lions eat up and was sawn in two pieces and had an awful time
generally for the sake of the Lord, and that's the way the Christians manage it nowadays. My
wife gets all the money she can and keeps it, but she says she has the sperit to give up the
hull world. I wish she'd give up enough of it to keep me in good terbacker. Mighty few nice
bits would the old man git wasn't it for you and Miss Eulie. Then I watch the good people goin'
to church. 'Mazin' few out wet Sundays. But no doubt they've all got the 'sperit' to go. They
would jist as lief be sawn in two pieces 'in sperit' as not, if they can only sleep late in
the mornin' and have a good dinner and save their Sunday-go-to-meetin' clothes from gettin'
wet. It must be so, for the Lord gets mighty little worship out of the church on rainy Sundays.
If it wasn't for you and Miss Eulie I don't know what would become of the old man and all the
rest of the sick and feeble foiks around here. I ask my wife why she doesn't go to see 'em
sometimes. She says she has the 'sperit to go,' but she hasn't time and strength. So I have
the 'sperit' to put up a man's bars while I sit here and smoke, and what's more, Miss Annie,
I did it as long as I was able."

"You did indeed, Daddy, and, though unintentionally, you have given me a good lesson. We little
deserve to be mentioned with those Christians who in olden times suffered the loss of all things,
and life itself."

"Lord bless you, child, I didn't mean you. Whether you've got the sperit to do a thing or not
yer allers do it, and in a sweet, natteral way, as if you couldn't help it. When my wife enters
on a good work it makes me think of a funeral. I'm 'mazin' glad you didn't live in old times,
'cause the lions would have got you sure 'nuff. Though, if it had to be, I would kinder liked
to have been the lion:" and the old man's eyes twinkled humorously, while Gregory laughed heartily.

"Oh, Daddy Tuggar!" exclaimed Annie, "that is the most awful compliment I ever received. If
you, with your spirit, were the only lion I had to deal with, I should never become a martyr.
You shall have some jelly instead, and now I must go home in order to have it made before Sunday."

"Wait a moment," said Gregory. "You were about to tell us how I caused you to 'fall from grace.'"

"So I was, so I was, and I've been goin' round Robin Hood's barn ever since. Well, I'd been
holdin' in on my swearin' a long time, 'cause I promised Miss Eulie I'd stop if I could. My
wife said I was in quite a 'hopeful state,' while I felt all the time as if I was sort of bottled
up and the cork might fly out any minute. Miss Eulie, she came and rejoiced over me that mornin',
and my wife she looked so solemn (she allers does when she says she feels glad) that somehow
I got nervous, and then my wife went to the store and didn't get the kind of terbacker I sent
for, and I knew the cork was going to fly out. I was smokin' and in a sort of a doze, when
the first thing I knowed a big stun rolled into the road, and there I saw a strange chap, as
I thought, a stealin' John Walton's apples and knockin' down the fence. If they'd a been my
apples I might have held in a little longer, but John Walton's--it was like a dam givin' way."

"It was, indeed," said Gregory, significantly. "It was like several."

"I knowed my wife heard me, and if she'd come right out and said, 'You've made a cussed old
fool of yourself,' I think I would have felt better. I knowed she was goin' to speak about
it and lament over it, and I wanted her to do it right away; but she put it off, and kept me
on pins and needles for ever so long. At last she said with solemn joy, 'Thomas Tuggar, I told
Miss Eulie I feared you was still in a state of natur, and, alas! I am right; but how she'll
mourn, how great will be her disappointment, when she hears'; and then I fell into a 'state
of natur' agin. Now, Miss Annie, if the Lord, Miss Eulie, and you all could only see I'm a
well-meanin' man, and that I don't mean no disrespect to anybody; that it's only one of my
old, rough ways that I learned from my father--and mother too, for that matter, I'm sorry to
say--and have followed so long that it's bred in the bone, it would save a heap of worry. One
must have some way of lettin' off steam. Now my wife she purses up her mouth so tight you couldn't
stick a pin in it when she's riled. I often say to her, 'Do explode. Open your mouth and let
it all out at once.' But she says it is not becoming for such as her ter 'explode.' But it
will come out all the same, only it's like one of yer cold northeast, drizzlin', fizzlin' rain-storms.
And now I've made a clean breast of it, I hope you'll kinder smooth matters over with Miss
Eulie; and I hope you, sir, will just think of what I said as spoken to a stranger and not
a friend of the family."

"Give me your hand, Mr. Tuggar. I hope we shall be the best of friends. I am coming over to
have a smoke with you, and see if I can't fill your pipe with some tobacco that is like us
both, 'in a state of natur.'"

A white-faced woman appeared at the door, and courtesying low to Miss Walton, called, "Husband,
it's too late for you to be out; I fear your health will suffer."

"She's bound up in me, you see," said the old man, with a curious grimace. "Nothing but the
reading of my will will ever comfort her when I die."

"Daddy, Daddy," said Annie, reproachfully, "have charity. Good-night; I will send you something
nice for to-morrow."

An amused smile lingered on Gregory's face as they pursued their way homeward, now in the early
twilight; but Annie's aspect was almost one of sadness. After a little he said, "Well, he is
one of the oddest specimens of humanity I ever met."

She did not immediately reply, and he, looking at her, caught her expression.

"Why is your face so clouded, Miss Annie?" he asked. "You are not given to Mrs. Tuggar's style
of 'solemn joy'?"

"What a perplexing mystery life is after all!" she replied, absently. "I really think poor
old Daddy Tuggar speaks truly. He is a 'well- meaning' man, but he and many others remind me
of one not having the slightest ear for music trying to catch a difficult harmony."

"Why is the harmony so difficult?" asked Gregory, bitterly.

"Perhaps it were better to ask, Why has humanity so disabled itself?"

"I do not think it matters much how you put the case. It amounts to the same thing. Something
is required of us beyond our strength. The idea of punishing that old man for being what he
is, when in the first place he inherited evil from his parents, and then was taught it by precept
and example. I think he deserves more credit than blame."

"The trouble is, Mr. Gregory, evil carries its own punishment along with it every day. But
I admit that we are surrounded by mystery on every side. Humanity, left to itself, is a hopeless
problem. But one thing is certain: we are not responsible for questions beyond our ken. Moreover,
many things that were complete mysteries to me as a child are now plain, and I ever hope to
be taught something new every day. You and I at least have much to be grateful for in the fact
that we neither inherited evil nor were taught it in any such degree as our poor neighbor."

"And you quietly prove, Miss Walton, by your last remark, that I am much more worthy of blame
than your poor old neighbor."

"Then I said more than I meant," she answered, eagerly. "It is not for me to judge or condemn
any one. The thought in my mind was how favored we have been in our parentage--our start in
existence, as it were."

"But suppose one loses that vantage-ground?"

"I do not wish to suppose anything of the kind."

"But one can lose it utterly."

"I fear some can and do. But why dwell on a subject so unutterably sad and painful? You have
not lost it, and, as I said before to-day, I will not dwell upon the disagreeable any more
than I can help."

"Your opinion of me is poor enough already, Miss Walton, so I, too, will drop the subject."

They had now reached the house, and did ample justice to the supper awaiting them.

Between meals people can be very sentimental, morbid, and tragical. They can stare at life's
deep mysteries and shudder or scoff, sigh or rejoice, according to their moral conditions.
They can even grow cold with dread, as did Gregory, realizing that he had "lost his vantage-
ground," his good start in the endless career. "She is steering across unknown seas to a peaceful,
happy shore. I am drifting on those same mysterious waters I know not whither," he thought.
But a few minutes after entering the cheerfully lighted dining-room he was giving his whole
soul to muffins.

These homely and ever-recurring duties and pleasures of life have no doubt saved multitudes
from madness. It would almost seem that they have also been the innocent cause of the destruction
of many. There are times when the mind is almost evenly balanced between good and evil. Some
powerful appeal or startling providence has aroused the sleeping spirit, or some vivifying
truth has pierced the armor of indifference or prejudice, and quivered like an arrow in the
soul, and the man remembers that he is a man, and not a brute that perishes. But just then
the dinner-bell sounds. After the several courses, any physician can predict how the powers
of that human organization must of necessity be employed the next few hours, and the partially
awakened soul is like one who starts out of a doze and sleeps again. If the spiritual nature
had only become sufficiently aroused to realize the situation, life might have been secured.
Thought and feeling in some emergencies will do more than the grandest pulpit eloquence quenched
by a Sunday dinner.

CHAPTER XV

MISS WALTON'S DREAM

The hickory fire burned cheerily in the parlor after tea, and all drew gladly around its welcome
blaze. But even the delights of roasting chestnuts from the abundant spoils of the afternoon
could not keep the heads of the children from drooping early.

Gregory was greatly fatigued, and soon went to his room also.

Sabbath morning dawned dim and uncertain, and by the time they had gathered at the breakfast-table,
a northeast rain-storm had set in with a driving gale.

"I suppose you will go to church 'in sperit' this morning, as Mr. Tuggar would say," said Gregory,
addressing Annie.

"If I were on the sick list I should, but I have no such excuse."

"You seriously do not mean to ride two miles in such a storm as this?"

"No, not seriously, but very cheerfully and gladly."

"I do not think it is required of you, Miss Walton. Even your Bible states, 'I will have mercy
and not sacrifice.'"

"The 'sacrifice' in my case would be in staying at home. I like to be out in a storm, and have
plenty of warm blood to resist its chilling effects. But even were it otherwise, what hardship
is there in my wrapping myself up in a waterproof and riding a few miles to a comfortable church?
I shall come back with a grand appetite and a double zest for the wood fire."

"But it is not fair on the poor horses. They have no waterproofs or wood fires."

"I think I am not indifferent to the comfort of dumb animals, and though I drive a good deal,
father can tell you I am not a 'whip.' Of all shams the most transparent is this tenderness
for one's self and the horses on Sunday. I am often out in stormy weather during the week,
and meet plenty of people on the road. The farmers drive to the village on rainy days because
they can neither plow, sow, nor reap. But on even a cloudy Sabbath, with the faintest prospect
of rain, there is but one text in the Bible for them: 'A righteous man regardeth the life of
his beast.' People attend parties, the opera, and places of amusement no matter how bad the
night. It is a miserable pretence to say that the weather keeps the majority at home from church.
It is only an excuse. I should have a great deal more respect for them if they would say frankly,
'We would rather sleep, read a novel, dawdle around en deshabille, and gossip.' Half the time
when they say it's too stormy to venture out (oh, the heroism of our Christian age!), they
should go and thank God for the rain that is providing food for them and theirs.

"And granting that our Christian duties do involve some risk and hardship, does not the Bible
ever speak of life as a warfare, a struggle, an agonizing for success? Do not armies often
fight and march in the rain, and dumb beasts share their exposure? There is more at stake in
this battle. In ancient times God commanded the bloody sacrifice of innumerable animals for
the sake of moral and religious effect. Moral and religious effect is worth just as much now.
Nothing can excuse wanton cruelty; but the soldier who spurs his horse against the enemy, and
the sentinel who keeps his out in a winter storm, are not cruel. But many farmers about here
will overwork and underfeed all the week, and on Sunday talk about being 'merciful to their
beasts.' There won't be over twenty-five out to-day, and the Christian heroes, the sturdy yeomanry
of the church, will be dozing and grumbling in chimney-corners. The languid half-heartedness
of the church discourages me more than all the evil in the world."

Miss Walton stated her views in a quiet undertone of indignation, and not so much in answer
to Gregory as in protest against a style of action utterly repugnant to her earnest, whole-souled
nature. As he saw the young girl's face light up with the will and purpose to be loyal to a
noble cause, his own aimless, self-pleasing life seemed petty and contemptible indeed, and
again he had that painful sense of humiliation which Miss Walton unwittingly caused him; but,
as was often his way, he laughed the matter off by saying, "There is no need of my going to-day,
for I have had my sermon, and a better one than you will hear. Still, such is the effect of
your homily that I am inclined to ask you to take me with you."

Annie's manner changed instantly, and she smilingly answered, "You will find an arm-chair before
a blazing fire in your room upstairs, and an arm-chair before a blazing fire in the parlor,
and you can vacillate between them at your pleasure."

"As a vacillating man should, perhaps you might add."

"I add nothing of the kind."

"Will you never let me go to church with you again?"

"Certainly, after what you said, any pleasant day."

"Why can't I have the privilege of being a martyr as well as yourself?"

"I am not a martyr. I would far rather go out to-day than stay at home."

"It will be very lonely without you."

"Oh, you are the martyr then, after all. I hope you will have sufficient fortitude to endure,
and doze comfortably during the two hours of my absence."

"Now you are satirical on Sunday, Miss Walton. Let that burden your conscience. I'm going to
ask your father if I may go."

"Of course you will act at your pleasure," said Mr. Walton, "but I think, in your present state
of health, Annie has suggested the wiser and safer thing to do."

"I should probably be ill on your hands if I went, so I submit; but I wish you to take note,
Miss Walton, that I have the 'sperit to go.'"

The arm-chairs were cosey and comfortable, and the hickory wood turned, as is its wont, into
glowing and fragrant coals, but the house grew chill and empty the moment that Annie left.
Though Mr. Walton and Miss Eulie accompanied her, their absence was rather welcome, but he
felt sure that Annie could have beguiled the heavy-footed hours.

"She has some unexplained power of making me forget my miserable self," he muttered.

And yet, left to himself, he had now nothing to do but think, and a fearful time he had of
it, lowering at the fire, in the arm-chair, from which he scarcely stirred.

"I have lost my vantage-ground," he groaned--"lost it utterly. I am not even a 'well-meaning
man.' I purpose evil against this freshest, purest spirit I have ever known since in this house
I looked into my mother's eyes. I am worse than the wild Arab of the desert. I have eaten salt
with them; I have partaken of their generous hospitality, given so cordially for the sake of
one that is dead, and in return have wounded their most sacred feelings, and now propose to
prove the daughter a creature that I can go away and despise. Instead of being glad that there
is one in the world noble and good, even though by accident--instead of noting with pleasure
that every sweet flower has not become a weed--I wish to drag her down to my own wretched level,
or else I would have her exhibit sufficient weakness to show that she would go as far as she
was tempted to go. A decent devil could hardly wish her worse. I would like to see her show
the same spirit that animates Miss Belle St. Glair of New York, or Mrs. Grobb, my former adored
Miss Bently--creatures that I despise as I do myself, and what more could I say? If I could
only cause her to show some of their characteristics the reproach of her life would pass away,
and I should be confirmed in my belief that humanity's unutterable degradation is its misfortune,
and the blame should rest elsewhere than on us. How absurd to blame water for running down
hill! Give man or woman half a chance, that is, before habits are fixed, and they plunge faster
down the inclined moral plane. And the plague of it is, this seeming axiom does not satisfy
me. What business has my conscience, with a lash of scorpion stings, to punish me this and
every day that I permit myself to think? Did I not try for years to be better? Did I not resist
the infernal gravitation? and yet I am falling still. I never did anything so mean and low
before as I am doing now. If it is my nature to do evil, why should I not do it without compunction?
And as I look downward--there is no looking forward for me--there seems no evil thing that
I could not do if so inclined. Here in this home of my childhood, this sacred atmosphere that
my mother breathed, I would besmirch the character of one who as yet is pure and good, with
a nature like a white hyacinth in spring. I see the vileness of the act, I loathe it, and yet
it fascinates me, and I have no power to resist. Why should a stern, condemning voice declare
in recesses of my soul, 'You could and should resist'? For years I have been daily yielding
to temptation, and conscience as often pronounces sentence against me. When will the hateful
farce cease? Multitudes appear to sin without thought or remorse. Why cannot I? It's my mother's
doings, I suppose. A plague upon the early memories of this place. Will they keep me upon the
rack forever?"

He rose, strode up and down the parlor, and clenched his hands in passionate protest against
himself, his destiny, and the God who made him.

A chillness, resulting partly from dread and partly from the wild storm raging without, caused
him to heap up the hearth with wood. It speedily leaped into flame, and, covering his face
with his hands, he sat cowering before it. A vain but frequent thought recurred to him with
double power.

"Oh that I could cease to exist, and lose this miserable consciousness! Oh that, like this
wood, I could be aflame with intense, passionate life, and then lose identity, memory, and
everything that makes me, and pass into other forms. Nay, more, if I had my wish, I would become
nothing here and now."

The crackling of flames and the rush of wind and rain against the windows had caused the sound
of wheels, and a light step in the room, to be unheard.

He was aroused by Miss Walton, who asked, "Mr. Gregory, are you ill?"

He raised his woe-begone face to hers, and said, almost irritably, "Yes--no--or at least I
am as well as I ever expect to be, and perhaps better." Then with a sudden impulse he asked,
"Does annihilation seem such a dreadful thing to you?"

"What! the losing of an eternity of keen enjoyment? Could anything be more dreadful! Really,
Mr. Gregory, brooding here alone has not been good for you. Why do you not think of pleasant
things?"

"For the same reason that a man with a raging toothache does not have pleasant sensations,"
he answered, with a grim smile.

"I admit the force of your reply, though I do not think the case exactly parallel. The mind
is not as helpless as the body. Still, I believe it is true that when the body is suffering
the mind is apt to become the prey of all sorts of morbid fancies, and you do look really ill.
I wish I could give you some of my rampant health and spirits to- day. Facing the October storm
has done me good every way, and I am ravenous for dinner."

He looked at her enviously as she stood before him, with her waterproof, still covered with
rain-drops, partially thrown back and revealing the outline of a form which, though not stout,
was suggestive of health and strength. She seemed, with her warm, high color, like a hardy
flower covered with spray. Instead of shrinking feebly and delicately from the harsher moods
of nature, and coming in pinched and shivering, she had felt the blood in her veins and all
the wheels of life quickened by the gale.

"Miss Walton," he said, with a glimmer of a smile, "do you know that you are very different
from most young ladies? You and nature evidently have some deep secrets between you. I half
believe you never will grow old, but are one of the perennials. I am glad you have come home,
for you seem to bring a little of yesterday's sunshine into the dreary house."

As they returned to the parlor after dinner, Gregory remarked, "Miss Walton, what can you do
to interest me this afternoon, for I am devoured with ennui?"

She turned upon him rather quickly and said, "A young man like you has no business to be 'devoured
with ennui.' Why not engage in some pursuit, or take up some subject that will interest you
and stir your pulse?"

With a touch of his old mock gallantry he bowed and said, "In you I see just the subject, and
am delighted to think I'm going to have you all to myself this rainy afternoon."

With a half-vexed laugh and somewhat heightened color she answered, "I imagine you won't have
me all to yourself long."

She had hardly spoken the words before the children bounded in, exclaiming, "Now, Aunt Annie,
for our stories."

"You see, Mr. Gregory, here are previous and counter-claims already."

"I wish I knew of some way of successfully disputing them."

"It would be difficult to find. Well, come, little people, we will go into the sitting-room
and not disturb Mr. Gregory."

"Now, I protest against that," he said. "You might at least let me be one of the children."

"But the trouble is, you won't be one, but will sit by criticising and laughing at our infantile
talk."

"Now you do me wrong. I will be as good as I can, and if you knew how long and dreary the day
has been you would not refuse."

She looked at him keenly for a moment, and then said, a little doubtfully, "Well, I will try
for once. Run and get your favorite Sunday books, children."

When they were alone he asked, "How can you permit these youngsters to be such a burden?"

"They are not a burden," she answered.

"But a nurse could take care of them and keep them quiet."

"If their father and mother were living they would not think 'keeping them quiet' all their
duty toward them, nor do I, to whom they were left as a sacred trust."

"That awful word 'duty' rules you, Miss Walton, with a rod of iron."

"Do I seem like a harshly driven slave?" she asked, smilingly.

"No, and I cannot understand you."

"That is because your philosophy of life is wrong. You still belong to that old school who
would have it that sun, moon, and stars revolve around the earth. But here are the books, and
if you are to be one of the children you must do as I bid you--be still and listen."

It was strange to Gregory how content he was to obey. He was surprised at his interest in the
old Bible stories told in childish language, and as Annie stopped to explain a point or answer
a question, he found himself listening as did the eager little boy sitting on the floor at
her feet. The hackneyed man of the world could not understand how the true, simple language
of nature, like the little brown blossoms of lichens, has a beauty of its own.

At the same time he had a growing consciousness that perhaps there was something in the reader
also which mainly held his interest. It was pleasant to listen to the low, musical voice. It
was pleasant to see the red lips drop the words so easily yet so distinctly, and chief of all
was the consciousness of a vitalized presence that made the room seem full when she was in
it, and empty when she was absent, though all others remained.

He truly shared the children's regret when at last she said, "Now I am tired, and must go upstairs
and rest awhile before supper, after which we will have some music. You can go into the sitting-room
and look at the pictures till the tea-bell rings. Mr. Gregory, will my excuse to the children
answer for you also?"

"I suppose it must, though I have no pictures to look at."

She suddenly appeared to change her mind, and said, briskly, "Come, sir, what you need is work
for others. I have read to you, and you ought to be willing to read to me. If you please, I
will rest in the arm-chair here instead of in my room."

"I will take your medicine," he said, eagerly, "without a wry face, though an indifferent reader,
while I think you are a remarkably good one; and let me tell you it is one of the rarest accomplishments
we find. You shall also choose the book."

"What unaccountable amiableness!" she replied, laughing. "I fear I shall reward you by going
to sleep."

"Very well, anything so I am not left alone again. I am wretched company for myself."

"Oh, it is not for my sake you are so good, after all!"

"You think me a selfish wretch, Miss Walton."

"I think you are like myself, capable of much improvement. But I wish to rest, and you must
not talk, but read. There is the 'Schonberg- Cotta Family.' I have been over it two or three
times, so if I lose the thread of the story it does not matter."

He wheeled the arm-chair up to the fire for her, and for a while she listened with interest;
but at last her lids drooped and soon closed, and her regular breathing showed that she was
sleeping. His voice sank in lower and lower monotone lest his sudden stopping should awaken
her, then he laid down his book and read a different story in the pure young face turned toward
him.

"It is not beautiful," he thought, "but it is a real, good face. I should not be attracted
toward it in a thronged and brilliant drawing- room. I might not notice it on Fifth Avenue,
but if I were ill and in deep trouble, it is just such a face as I should like to see bending
over me. Am I not ill and in deep trouble? I have lost my health and lost my manhood. What
worse disasters this side death can I experience? Be careful, Walter Gregory, you may be breaking
the one clew that can lead you out of the labyrinth. You may be seeking to palsy the one hand
that can help you. Mother believed in a special Providence. Is it her suggestion that now flashes
in my mind that God in mercy has brought me to this place of sacred memories, and given me
the companionship of this good woman, that the bitter waters of my life may be sweetened? I
do not know from whom else it can come.

"And yet the infernal fascination of evil! I cannot--I will not give up my purpose toward her.
Vain dreams! Miss Walton or an angel of light could not reclaim me. My impetus downward is
too great.

"Oh, the rest and peace of that face! Physical rest and a quiet, happy spirit dwell in every
line. She sleeps there like a child, little dreaming that a demon is watching her. But she
says that she is guarded. Perhaps she is. A strong viewless one with a flaming sword may stand
between her and me.

"Weak fool! Enough of this. I shall carry out my experiment fully, and when I have succeeded
or failed, I can come to some conclusion on matters now in doubt.

"I should like to kiss those red parted lips. I wonder what she would do if I did?" Annie's
brow darkened into a frown. Suddenly she started up and looked at him, but seemed satisfied
from his distance and motionless aspect.

"What is the matter?" he asked.

"Oh, nothing. I had a dream," she said, with a slight flush.

"Please tell it," he said, though he feared her answer.

"You will not like it. Besides, it's too absurd."

"You pique my curiosity. Tell it by all means."

"Well, then, you mustn't be angry; and remember, I have no faith in sleeping vagaries. I dreamed
that you were transformed into a large tiger, and came stealthily to bite me."

He was startled as he recalled his thought at the moment of her awaking, but had the presence
of mind to say, "Let me interpret the dream."

"Well."

"You know, I suppose, that dreams go by contraries. Suppose a true friend wished to steal a
kiss in your unconsciousness."

"True friends do not steal from us," she replied, laughing. "I don't know whether it was safe
to let you read me to sleep?"

"It's not wrong to be tempted, is it? One can't help that. As Mr. Tuggar says, I might have
the 'sperit to do it,' and yet remain quietly in my chair, as I have."

"You make an admission in your explanation. Well, it was queer," she added, absently.

Gregory thought so too, and was annoyed at her unexpected clairvoyant powers. But he said,
as if a little piqued, "If you think me a tiger you had better not sleep within my reach, or
you may find your face sadly mutilated on awaking."

"Nonsense," she said. "Mr. Gregory, you are a gentleman. We are talking like foolish children."

The tea-bell now rang, and Gregory obeyed its summons in a very perplexed state. His manner
was rather absent during the meal, but Annie seemed to take pains to be kind and reassuring.
The day, so far from being a restraint, appeared one of habitual cheerfulness, which even the
dreary storm without could not dampen.

"We shall have a grand sing to-night with the assistance of your voice, I hope, Mr. Gregory,"
said Mr. Walton, as they all adjourned to the parlor.

"I do not sing by note," he replied. "When I can I will join you, though I much prefer listening
to Miss Walton."

"Miss Walton prefers nothing of the kind, and we shall sing only what you know," she said,
with a smiling glance at him over her shoulder, as she was making selections from the music-stand.

Soon they were all standing round the piano, save Mr. Walton, who sat near in his arm-chair,
his face the picture of placid enjoyment as he looked on the little group so dear to him. They
began with the children's favorites from the Sabbath-school books, the little boy dutifully
finding the place for his grandfather. Many of them were the same that Gregory had sung long
years before, standing in the same place, a child like Johnny, and the vivid memories thus
recalled made his voice a little husky occasionally. Annie once gave him a quick look of sympathy,
not curious but appreciative.

"She seems to know what is passing in my soul," he thought; "I never knew a woman with such
intuitions."

The combined result of their voices was true home music, in which were blended the tones of
childhood and age. Annie, with her sweet soprano, led, and gave time and key to them all, very
much as by the force and loveliness of her character she influenced the daily harmony of their
lives. The children, with their imitative faculty, seemed to gather from her lips how to follow
with fair correctness, and they chirped through the tunes like two intelligent robins. Miss
Eulie sang a sweet though rather faint alto that was like a low minor key in a happy life.
Mr. Walton's melody was rather that of the heart, for his voice was returning to the weakness
of childhood, and his ear was scarcely quick enough for the rapid changes of the air, and yet,
unless "grandpa" joined with them, all felt that the circle was incomplete.

Gregory was a foreign element in the little group, almost a stranger to its personnel, and
more estranged from the sacred meanings and feeling of the hour; yet such was the power of
example, so strong were the sweet home-spells of this Christian family, that to his surprise
he found himself entering with zest into a scene that on the Sabbath before he would have regarded
as an unmitigated bore. The thought flashed across him, "How some of my club acquaintances
would laugh to see me standing between two children singing Sabbath-school hymns!"

It was also a sad truth that he could go away from all present influences to spend the next
Sabbath at his club in the ordinary style.

When the children's hour had passed and they had been tucked away to peaceful spring-time dreams,
though a storm, the precursor of winter, raged without, Annie returned to the parlor and said,
"Now, Mr. Gregory, we can have some singing more to your taste."

"I have been one of the children to-day," he replied, "so you must let me off with them from
any further singing myself."

"If you insist on playing the children's role you must go to bed. I have some grand old hymns
that I've been wishing to try with you."

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I am but half a man. At the risk of your contempt I must say in frankness
that my whole physical nature yearns for my arm-chair. But please do not call my weakness laziness.
If you will sing to me just what you please, according to your mood, I for one will be grateful."

"Even a dragon could not resist such an appeal," said Annie, laughing. She sat down to her
piano and soon partially forgot her audience, in an old Sabbath evening habit, well known to
natural musicians, of expressing her deeper and more sacred feelings in words and notes that
harmonized with them. Gregory sat and listened as the young girl unwittingly revealed a new
element in her nature.

In her every-day life she appeared to him full of force and power, practical and resolute.
To one of his sporting tastes she suggested a mettled steed whose high spirit was kept in check
by thorough training. Her conversation was piquant, at times a little brusque, and utterly
devoid of sentimentality. But now her choice of poetic thought and her tones revealed a wealth
of womanly tenderness, and he was compelled to feel that her religion was not legal and cold,
a system of duties, beliefs, and restraints, but something that seemed to stir the depths of
her soul with mystic longings, and overflow her heart with love. She was not adoring the Creator,
nor paying homage to a king; but, as the perfume rises from a flower, so her voice and manner
seemed the natural expression of a true, strong affection for God Himself, not afar off, but
known as a near and dear friend. In her sweet tones there was not the faintest suggestion of
the effect or style that a professional singer would aim at. She thought no more of these than
would a thrush swaying on its spray in the twilight of a June evening. As unaffectedly as the
bird she sang according to the inward promptings of a nature purified and made lovely by the
grace of God.

No one not utterly given over to evil could have listened unmoved, still less Gregory, with
his sensitive, beauty-loving, though perverted nature. The spirit of David's harp again breathed
its divine peace on his sin-disquieted soul. The words of old Daddy Tuggar flashed across him,
and he muttered:

"Yes, she could take even me to heaven, 'if she stayed right by me.'"

When finally, with heartfelt sincerity, she sang the following simple words to an air that
seemed a part of them, he envied her from the depths of his soul, and felt that he would readily
barter away any earthly possession and life itself for a like faith:

  Nearer, nearer, ever nearer,
    Come I gladly unto Thee;
  And the days are growing brighter
    With Thy presence nearer me.

  Though a pilgrim, not a stranger;
    This Thy land, and I Thine own;
  At Thy side, thus free from danger,
    Find I paths with flowers strown.

  Voices varied, nature speaking,
    Call to me on every side;
  Friends and kindred give their greeting,
    In Thy sunshine I abide.

  Though my way were flinty, thorny,
    Were I sure it led to Thee,
  Could I pass one day forlornly,
    Home and rest so near to me?

Then she brought the old family Bible, indicating that after that hour she was in no mood for
commonplace conversation. In the hush that followed, the good old man reverently read a favorite
passage, which seemed not to consist of cold, printed words, but to be a part of a loving letter
sent by the Divine Father to His absent children.

As such it was received by all save Gregory. He sat among them as a stranger and an alien,
cut off by his own acts from those ties which make one household of earth and heaven. But such
was the influence of the evening upon him that he realized as never before his loss and loneliness.
He longed intensely to share in their feelings, and to appropriate the words of love and promise
that Mr. Walton read.

The prayer that followed was so tender, so full of heart-felt interest in his guest, that Gregory's
feelings were deeply touched. He arose from his knees, and again shaded his face to hide the
traces of his emotion.

When at last he looked up, Mr. Walton was quietly reading, and the ladies had retired. He rose
and bade Mr. Walton good-night with a strong but silent grasp of the hand.

The thought flashed across him as he went to his room, that after this evening and the grasp
as of friendship he had just given the father, he could not in the faintest degree meditate
evil against the daughter. But so conscious was he of moral weakness, so self- distrustful
in view of many broken resolutions, that he dared resolve on nothing. He at last fell into
a troubled sleep with the vain, regretful thought, "Oh that I had not lost my vantage-ground!
Oh that I could live my life over again!"

CHAPTER XVI

AN ACCIDENT IN THE MOUNTAINS

In view of her recent stormy mood, Nature seemed full of regretful relentings on Monday, and,
as if to make amends for her harshness, assumed something of a summer softness. The sun had
not the glaring brightness that dazzles, and the atmosphere, purified by the recent rain, revealed
through its crystal depths objects with unusual distinctness.

"It is a splendid day for a mountain ramble," said Annie, with vivacity, at the breakfast-table.

"Why don't you take old Dolly and the mountain wagon, and show Mr. Gregory some of our fine
views this afternoon?" asked Mr. Walton.

"Nothing would please me more," said his daughter, cordially; "that is, if Mr. Gregory feels
equal to the fatigue."

"I'd be at my last gasp if I refused such an offer," said Gregory, eagerly. "It would do me
good, for I feel much stronger than when I first came, and Miss Walton's society is the best
tonic I know of."

"Very well," said she, laughing. "You shall take me this afternoon as a continuation of the
tonic treatment under which you say you are improving."

"To carry on the medical figure," he replied, "I fear that I am to you the embodiment of the
depletive system."

"From my feelings this bright morning you have very little effect. I prescribe for you a quiet
forenoon, as our mountain roads will give you an awful jolting. You, if not your medicine,
will be well shaken to-day."

"You are my medicine, as I understand it, so I shall take it according to the old orthodox
couplet."

"No, the mountain is your medicine, and I anticipate no earthquakes."

"It is settled then," said Mr. Walton, smiling, "that you adopt Mahomet's compromise and go
to the mountain. I will tell Jeff to fit you out in suitable style."

Gregory, in excellent spirits, retired to his room for a quiet morning. The prospect for the
afternoon pleased him greatly, and a long tete-a-tete with Annie among the grand and beautiful
solitudes of nature had for him an attraction that he could scarcely understand.

"She is just the one for a companion on such an expedition," he said to himself. "She seems
a part of the scenes we shall look upon. The free, strong mountain spirit breathes in her every
word and act. Old Greek mythology would certainly make her a nymph of the hills."

After dinner they started, Gregory's interest centring mainly in his companion, but Annie regarding
him as a mere accessory to a sort of half-holiday in her busy life, and expecting more enjoyment
from the scenery and the exhilarating air than from his best efforts to entertain her. And
yet in this respect she was agreeably disappointed. Gregory was in a mood that he scarcely
understood himself. If Annie had been somewhat vain and shallow, though possessing many other
good traits, with the practiced skill of a society man he would have made the most of these
weaknesses, amused himself with a piquant flirtation, and soon have been ready for his departure
for New York with a contemptuous French shrug at the whole affair. But her weaknesses did not
lie in that direction. Her naturally truthful and earnest nature, deepened and strengthened
by Christian principle, from the first had foiled his unworthy purposes, and disturbed his
contemptuous cynicism. Then as he was compelled to believe in her reality, her truth and nobleness,
all that was in his own nature responsive to these traits began to assert itself. Even while
he clung to it and felt that he had no power to escape it, the evil of his life grew more hateful
to him, and he condemned himself with increasing bitterness. When good influences are felt
in a man's soul, evil seems to become specially active. The kingdom of darkness disputes every
inch of its ill-gotten power. Winter passes away in March storms. It is the still cold of indifference
that is nearest akin to death.

The visit to his old home, and the influence of Annie Walton, were creating March weather in
Walter Gregory's soul. There were a few genial moods like gleams of early spring sunshine.
There were sudden relentings and passionate longings for better life, as at times gentle, frost-relaxing
showers soften the flinty ground. There were fierce spiritual conflicts, wild questionings,
doubts, fears, and forebodings, and sometimes despair, as in this gusty month nature often
seems resolving itself back to primeval chaos. But too often his mood was that of cold hard
scepticism, the frost of midwinter. The impetus of his evil life would evidently be long in
spending itself.

And yet the quiet influence of the hallowed Sabbath evening, and Annie Walton's hymns of faith
and love, could not readily be lost. The father's prayer still echoed in his soul, and even
to him it seemed that the heavens could not be deaf to such entreaty. These things affected
him as no direct appeals possibly could. They were like the gentle but irresistible south wind.

He was now simply drifting. He had not definitely abandoned his purpose of tempting Annie,
nor did he consciously thrust it from him. Quite convinced that she was what she seemed, and
doubting greatly whether during his brief visit there would be time to affect her mind seriously
by any evil influences he could bring to bear, and won unwittingly by her pure spirit to better
things himself, he let the new and unexpected influence have full play.

He was like a man who finds himself in the current above Niagara, and gives up in despair,
allowing his boat to glide onward to the fatal plunge. A breeze springs up and blows against
the current. He spreads a sail and finds his downward progress checked. If the wind increases
and blows steadily, he may stem the rushing tide and reach smooth, safe waters.

A faint glimmering of hope began to dawn in his heart. An unexpected gale from heaven, blowing
against the current of evil, made it seem possible that he too might gain the still waters
of a peaceful faith. But the hope dwelt in his mind more as a passing thought, a possibility,
than an expectation.

In his wavering state the turn of the scales would depend mainly upon the mood of his companion.
If she had been trifling and inclined to flirt, full of frivolous nonsense, bent upon having
a good time in the frequent acceptation of the phrase, little recking the consequences of words
or acts, as is often the case with girls in the main good- hearted and well-meaning, Gregory
would have fallen in with such a mood and pushed it to the extreme.

But Annie was simply herself, bright and exhilarating as the October sunshine, but as pure
and strong. She was ready for jest and repartee. She showed almost a childish delight in every
odd and pretty thing that met her eye, but never for a moment permitted her companion to lose
respect for her.

Her cheeks were like the crimson maple-leaves which overhung them. Her eyes were like the dark
sparkle of the little brook as it emerged from the causeway over which they drove. Her brown
hair, tossed by the wind, escaped somewhat from its restraints and enhanced the whiteness of
her neck, and the thought occurred to Gregory more than once, "If she is not pretty, I never
saw a face more pleasant to look at."

The wish to gain her esteem and friendship grew stronger every moment, and he exerted himself
to the utmost to please her. Abandoning utterly his gallantry, his morbid cynicism, he came
out into the honest sunlight of truth, where Annie's mind dwelt, and directed the conversation
to subjects concerning which, as an educated and travelled man, he could speak frankly and
intelligently. Annie had strong social tastes and the fondness for companionship natural to
the young, and she was surprised to find how he stimulated and interested her mind, and how
much they had in common. He appeared to understand her immediately, and to lead her thoughts
to new and exciting flights.

It was their purpose to cross a spur of the main mountain range. After a long and toilsome
climb, stopping to give Dolly many a breathing spell, they at last reached the brow of the
wooded height, and turned to look at the autumn landscape glimmering in the bright October
sunshine. It is impossible by either pen or brush to give a true picture of wide reaches of
broken and beautiful country, as seen from some of the more favored points of outlook among
the Highlands on the Hudson. The loveliness of a pretty bit of scenery or of a landscape may
be enhanced by art, but the impressive grandeur of nature, when the feature of vast and varied
expanse predominates, cannot be adequately expressed. The mind itself is oppressed by the extensiveness
of the scene, and tends to select some definite object, as a village, hamlet, or tree-embowered
farmhouse, on which to dwell. These accord more with the finite nature of the beholder. Spires
and curling wreaths of smoke suggested to Annie and Gregory many a simple altar and quiet hearth,
around which gathered the homely, contented life, spiritual and domestic, of those who occupied
their own little niche in the great world, and were all unburdened with thought or care for
the indefinite regions that stretched away beyond their narrow circle of daily acquaintance.
Only God can give to the whole of His creation the all-seeing gaze that we bestow upon some
familiar scene. His glance around the globe is like that of a mother around her nursery, with
her little children grouped at her feet.

The laden orchards, with men climbing long ladders, and boys in the topmost branches looking
in the distance like huge squirrels, were pleasant objects to the mountain ramblers. Huskers
could be discerned in the nearer cornfields, and the great yellow ears glistened momentarily
in the light, as they were tossed into golden heaps. There was no hum of industry as from a
manufacturing village, or roar of turbulent life as from a city, but only the quiet evidence
to the eye of a life kindred to that which nature so silently and beautifully elaborates.

"How insignificant we are!" said Gregory, gloomily; "how the great world goes right on without
us! It is the same when one dies and leaves it, as we left it by climbing this mountain. In
the main we are unknown and uncared for, and even to those who know us it is soon the same
as if we had never been."

"But the world cannot go on without God. Though forgotten, He never forgets! His friends need
never have the sense of being lost or lonely--any more than a child travelling with his father
in a foreign land among indifferent strangers. God does not look at us, His creatures, as we
do at the foliage of these forests, seeing only the general effect. He sees each one as directly
as I now look at you."

"I wish I could believe He looked as kindly."

"I wish you could, Mr. Gregory. It is sad to me that people can't believe what is so true.
The fondest look your mother ever gave you was cold compared with the yearning, loving face
God turns toward every one of us, even as we go away from Him."

He looked at her earnestly for a moment and saw that sincerity was written on her face. He
shook his head sadly, and then said, rather abruptly, "Those lengthening shadows remind us
that we must be on our way"; and then their thoughts dwelt on lighter subjects as they ascended
another lofty mountain terrace, and paused again to scan the wider prospect that made the sense
of daily life in the valleys below as remote as the world seems to the hermit in his devotional
seclusion. Then they began to descend the sloping plateau which inclined toward the brow of
the hill overlooking the region of the Walton residence.

After one or two hours of broken but very agreeable conversation Annie suddenly sighed deeply.

"Now, Miss Walton," said Gregory, "that sigh came from the depths. What hidden sorrow could
have caused it?"

With a slight flush and laugh, she said, "It was caused by a mere passing thought, like that
cloud there sailing over the mountain slope."

"Your simile is so pretty that I should like to know the thought."

"I hardly know whether to tell it to you. It might have the same effect as if that cloud should
expand and cover the sky."

"Might not the telling also have the same effect as if the cloud were dissipated altogether?"

She looked at him quickly and said, "How apt your answer is! Yes, it might if you would be
sensible. I do not know you so very well yet. Are you not a little ready to take offence?"

"You do not look as if about to say anything I should resent very deeply. But I promise that
the cloud shall vanish."

"I am not so sure about that. The cloud represents my thought; and yet I hope it may eventually
vanish utterly. The thought occurred to me after the pleasant hours of this afternoon what
congenial friends we might be."

"And that caused you to sigh so deeply?"

"I laid emphasis on the word might."

"And why should you, Miss Annie? Why need you?" he asked, eagerly.

"You have shown a great deal of tact and consideration this afternoon, Mr. Gregory, in choosing
topics on which we could agree, or about which it is as nice to differ a little. I wish it
were the same in regard to those things that make up one's life, as it were;" and she looked
at him closely to see how he would take this.

After a moment he said, a little bitterly, "In order to be your friend, must one look at everything
through the same colored glass that you employ?"

"Oh, no," she replied, earnestly; "it is not fair to say that. But you seem almost hostile
to all that I love best and think most of, and my sigh was rather an earnest and oft-recurring
wish that it were otherwise."

Again he was silent for a short time, then said, with sudden vehemence, "And I also wish it
were otherwise"; adding more quietly, "but it is not, Miss Walton. You know me too well, even
if I wished to deceive you. And yet I would give a great deal for such a friendship as you
could bestow. Why can you not give it as it is? The Founder of your faith was a friend of publicans
and sinners."

"He was indeed their friend, and has been ever since," she answered. "But was it not natural
that He found more that was attractive and congenial in that little group of disciples who
were learning to know and believe in Him?"

"I understand you, Miss Walton. I was unfortunate in my illustration, and you have turned it
against me. You can be my friend, as the missionary is the friend of the heathen."

"You go to extremes, Mr. Gregory, and are hardly fair. I am not a missionary, nor are you a
heathen. I make my meaning clear when I echo your thought of a moment ago, and wish that just
such a friendship might exist between us as that between your father and mine."

"I am what I am," he said, with genuine sadness.

"I wish you had my faith in the possibilities of the future," she replied, turning brightly
toward him.

But he shook his head, saying, "I have about lost all faith in everything as far as I am concerned.
Still I feel that if any one could do me any good, you might, but I fear it is a hopeless task."
Then he changed the subject in such a way as to show that it was painful, and that he preferred
it should be dropped.

After all, the cloud had overcast the sky. The inevitable separation between those guided by
divine principles and those controlled by earthly influences began to dawn upon him. He caught
a glimpse of the "great gulf," that is ever "fixed" between the good and evil in their deepest
consciousness. The "loneliness of guilt" chilled and oppressed him, even with the cheery, sympathetic
companion at his side. But he hid his feelings under a forced gayety, in which Annie joined
somewhat, though it gave her a vague shiver of pain. She felt they had been en rapport for
a little while, but now a change had come, even as the damp and chill of approaching night
were taking the place of genial sunshine.

Suddenly she said, as they were riding along on the comparatively level plateau among thick
copse-wood and overshadowing trees that already created a premature twilight, "It is strange
we do not come out on the brow of the mountain overlooking our home. This road does not seem
familiar either, though it is two or three years since I have been over it, and then Jeff drove.
I thought I knew the way well. Can it be possible we have taken the wrong turning?"

"I ought to be familiar with these roads, Miss Walton, but I am sorry to say I too am confused.
I hunted over these hills to some extent when a boy, but did not pay much heed to the roads,
as I took my own courses through the woods."

"I think I must be right," said Annie, after a little time; "the brow of the hill must be near;"
and they hastened the old horse along as fast as possible under the circumstances. But the
road continually grew rougher and gave evidence of very little travel, and the evening deepened
rapidly. At last they resolved to turn round at the first place that would permit of it, but
this was not readily found, there being only a single wheel-track, which now stretched away
before them like a narrow cut between banks of foliage, that looked solid in the increasing
darkness; the road also was full of rocks, loose stones, and deep ruts, over which the wagon
jolted painfully. With a less sure-footed horse than Dolly they would soon have come to grief.
Gregory was becoming greatly fatigued, though he strove to hide it, and both were filled with
genuine uneasiness at the prospect before them. To make matters seemingly desperate, as they
were descending a little hill a fore-wheel caught between two stones and was wrenched sharply
off. Quick, agile Annie sprang as she felt the wagon giving, but Walter was thrown out among
the brushwood by the roadside. Though scratched and bruised, he was not seriously hurt, and
as quickly as possible came to the assistance of his companion. He found her standing by Dolly's
head, holding and soothing the startled beast. Apparently she was unhurt. They looked searchingly
at the dusky forest, their broken vehicle, and then at each other. Words were unnecessary to
explain the awkwardness of their situation.

CHAPTER XVII

"PROMISE OR DIE"

While they were thus standing irresolute after the accident, suddenly a light glimmered upon
them. It appeared to come from a house standing a little off from the road. "Shall I leave
you here and go for assistance?" asked Walter.

"I think I would rather go with you. Dolly will stand, and I do not wish to be left alone."

They soon found a grassy path leading to a small house, from which the light shone but faintly
through closely curtained windows. They met no one, nor were their footsteps heard till they
knocked at the door. A gruff voice said, "Come in," and a huge bull-dog started up from near
the fire with a savage growl.

They entered. A middle-aged man with his coat off sat at work with his back toward them. He
rose hastily and stared at them with a strangely blended look of consternation and anger.

"Call off your dog," said Gregory, sharply.

"Down, Bull," said the man, harshly, and the dog slunk growling into a corner, but with a watchful,
ugly gleam in his eyes.

The man's expression was quite as sinister and threatening.

"Who are you, and what do you want?" he asked, sternly.

"We want help," said Gregory, with a quickened and apprehensive glance around, which at once
revealed to him why their visit was so unwelcome. The man had been counterfeiting money, and
the evidences of his guilt were only too apparent. "We have lost our way, and our wagon is
broken. I hope you have sufficient humanity to act the part of a neighbor."

"Humanity to the devil!" said the man, brutally, "I am neighbor to no one. You have come here
to pry into what is none of your business."

"We have not," said Gregory, eagerly. "You will find our broken wagon in the road but a little
way from here."

The man's eye was cold, hard, and now had a snake-like glitter as he looked at them askance
with a gloomy scowl. He seemed thinking over the situation in which he found himself.

Gregory, in his weak, exhausted state, and shaken somewhat by his fall, was nervous and apprehensive.
Annie, though pale, stood firmly and quietly by.

Slowly and hesitatingly, as if deliberating as to the best course, the man reached up to the
shelf and took down a revolver, saying, with an evil-boding look at them, "If I thought you
had come as detectives, you would have no chance to use your knowledge. You, sir, I do not
know, but I think this lady is Squire Walton's daughter. As it is, you must both solemnly promise
me before God that you will never reveal what you have seen here. Otherwise I have but one
method of self- protection," and he cocked his pistol. "Let me tell you," he added, in a blood-curdling
tone, "you are not the first ones I have silenced. And mark this--if you go away and break
this promise, I have confederates who will take vengeance on you and yours."

"No need of any further threats," said Gregory, with a shrug. "I promise. As you say, it is
none of my business how much of the 'queer' you make."

Though naturally not a coward, Gregory, in his habit of self-pleasing and of shunning all sources
of annoyance, would not have gone out of his way under any circumstances to bring a criminal
to justice, and the thought of risking anything in this case did not occur to him. Why should
they peril their lives for the good of the commonwealth? If he had been alone and escaped without
further trouble, he would have thought of the matter afterward as of a crime recorded in the
morning paper, with which he had no concern, except perhaps to scrutinize more sharply the
currency he received.

But with conscientious Annie it was very different. Her father was a magistrate of the right
kind, who sincerely sought to do justice and protect the people in their rights. From almost
daily conversation her mind had been impressed with the sacredness of the law. When she was
inclined to induce her father to give a lighter sentence than he believed right he had explained
how the well-being and indeed the very existence of society depended upon the righteous enforcement
of the law, and how true mercy lay in such enforcement. She had been made to feel that the
responsibility for good order and morals rested on every one, and that to conceal a known crime
was to share deeply in the guilt. She also was not skilled in that casuistry which would enable
her to promise anything with mental reservations. The shock of their savage and threatening
reception had been severe, but she was not at all inclined to be hysterical; and though her
heart seemed to stand still with a chill of dread which deepened every moment as she realized
what would be exacted of her, she seemed more self-possessed than Gregory. Indeed, in the sudden
and awful emergencies of life, woman's fortitude is often superior to man's, and Annie's faith
was no decorous and conventional profession for Sabbath uses, but a constant and living reality.
She was like the maidens of martyr days, who tremblingly but unhesitatingly died for conscience'
sake. While there was no wavering of purpose, there was an agony of fear and sorrow, as, after
the momentary confusion of mind caused by the suddenness of the occurrence, the terrible nature
of the ordeal before her became evident.

Through her father she had heard a vague rumor of this man before. Though he lived so secluded
and was so reticent, his somewhat mysterious movements had awakened suspicion. But his fierce
dog and his own manner had kept all obtrusive curiosity at a distance. Now she saw her father's
worst fears and surmises realized.

But the counterfeiter at first gave all his attention to her companion, thinking that he would
have little trouble with a timid girl; and after Gregory's ready promise, looked searchingly
at him for a moment, and then said, with a coarse, scornful laugh, "No fear of you. You will
keep your skin whole. You are a city chap, and know enough of me and my tribe to be sure I
can strike you there as well as here. I can trust to your fears, and don't wish to shed blood
when it is unnecessary. And now this girl must make the same promise. Her father is a magistrate,
and I intend to have no posse of men up here after me to-morrow."

"I can make no such promise," said Annie, in a low tone.

"What?" exclaimed the man, harshly, and a savage growl from the dog made a kindred echo to
his tone.

Deathly pale, but with firm bearing, Annie said, "I cannot promise to shield crime by silence.
I should be a partaker in your guilty secrets."

"Oh, for God's sake, promise!" cried Gregory, in an agony of fear, but in justice it must be
said that it was more for her than for himself.

"For God's sake I cannot promise."

The man stepped menacingly toward her, and the great dog also advanced unchecked out of his corner.

"Young woman," he hissed in her ear, "you must promise or die. I have sworn never to go to
prison again if I wade knee-deep in blood."

There came a rush of tears to Annie's eyes. Her bosom heaved convulsively a moment, and then
she said, in a tone of agony, "It is dreadful to die in such a way, but I cannot make the promise
you ask. It would burden my conscience and blight my life. I will trust to God's mercy and
do right. But think twice before you shed my innocent blood."

Gregory covered his face with his hands and groaned aloud.

The man hesitated. He had evidently hoped by his threats to frighten her into compliance, and
her unexpected refusal, while it half frenzied him with fear and anger, made his course difficult
to determine upon. He was not quite hardened enough to slay the defenceless girl as she stood
so bravely before him, and the killing of her would also involve the putting of Gregory out
of the way, making a double murder that would be hard to conceal. He looked at the dog, and
the thought occurred that by turning them out of doors and leaving them to the brute's tender
mercies their silence might be effectually secured.

It is hard to say what he would have done, left to his own fears and evil passions; but a moment
after Annie had spoken, the doors opened and a woman entered with a pail of water, which she
had just brought from a spring at some little distance from the house.

"What does this mean?" she asked, with a quick, startled glance around.

"It means mischief to all concerned," said the man, sullenly.

"This is Miss Walton," said the woman, advancing.

"Yes," exclaimed Annie, and she rushed forward and sobbed out, "save me from your husband;
he threatened to take my life."

"'My husband!'" said the woman, with intense bitterness, turning toward the man. "Do you hear
that, Vight? Quiet your fears, young lady. Do you remember the sick, weary woman that you found
one hot day last summer by the roadside? I was faint, and it seemed to me that I was dying.
I often wish to, but when it comes to the point and I look over into the black gulf, I'm afraid--"

"But, woman--" interrupted the man, harshly.

"Be still," she said, imperiously waving her hand.

"Don't rouse a devil you can't control." Then turning to Annie, she continued, "I was afraid
then; I was in an agony of terror. I was so weak that I could scarcely do more than look appealingly
to you and stretch out my hands. Most ladies would have said, 'She's drunk,' and passed contemptuously
on. But you got out of your wagon and took my cold hand. I whispered, 'I'm sick; for God's
sake help me.' And you believed me and said, 'I will help you, for God's sake and your own.'
Then you went to the carriage, and got some cordial which you said was for another sick person,
and gave me some; and when I revived, you half carried me and half lifted me into your nice
covered little wagon, that kept the burning sun off my head, and you took me miles out of your
way to a little house which I falsely told you was my home. I heard that you afterward came
to see me. You spoke kindly. When I could speak I said that I was not fit for you to touch,
and you answered that Jesus Christ was glad to help touch any human creature, and that you
were not better than He! Then you told me a little about Him, but I was too sick to listen
much. God knows I've got down about as low as any woman can. I dare not pray for myself, but
since that day I've prayed for you. And mark what I say, Vight," she added, her sad, weird
manner changing to sudden fierceness, "not a hair of this lady's head shall be hurt."

"But these two will go and blab on us," said the man, angrily. "At least the girl will. She
won't promise to keep her secret. I have no fears for the man; I can keep him quiet."

"Why won't you promise?" asked the woman, gently, but with surprise.

"Because I cannot," said Annie, earnestly, though her voice was still broken by sobs. "When
we hide crime, we take part in it."

"And would you rather die than do what you thought wrong?"

"It were better," said Annie.

"Oh that I had had such a spirit in the fatal past!" groaned the woman.

"But won't you protect me still?" exclaimed Annie, seizing her hand. "It would kill my poor
old father too, if I should die. I cannot burden my soul with your secrets, but save me--oh,
save me, from so dreadful a death!"

"I have said it, Miss Walton. Not a hair of your head shall be hurt."

"What do you advise then, madam?" asked the man, satirically. "Shall we invite Mr. Walton and
the sheriff up to-morrow to take a look at the room as it now stands?"

"I advise nothing," said the woman, harshly. "I only say, in a way you understand, not a hair
of this girl's head shall be hurt."

"Thank God, oh, thank God," murmured Annie, with a feeling of confidence and inexpressible
relief, for there was that in the woman's bearing and tone which gave evidence of unusual power
over her associate in crime.

Then Annie added, still clinging to a hand unsanctified by the significant plain ring, "I hope
you will keep my companion safe from harm also."

During the scene between Annie and her strange protector, who was evidently a sad wreck of
a beautiful and gifted woman, Gregory had sunk into a chair through weakness and shame, and
covered his face with his hands.

The woman turned toward him with instinctive antipathy, and asked, "How is it, sir, you have
left a young girl to meet this danger alone?"

Gregory's white, drawn face turned scarlet as he answered, "Because I am like you and this
man here, and not like Miss Walton, who is an angel of truth and goodness."

"'Like us,' indeed!" said she, disdainfully. "I don't know that you have proved us cowards
yet. And could you be bad and mean enough to see this brave maiden slain before your eyes,
and go away in silence to save your own miserable self?"

"For aught I know I could," answered he, savagely. "I would like to see what mean, horrible,
loathsome thing, this hateful, hated thing I call myself could not do."

Gregory showed, in a way fearful to witness, what intense hostility and loathing a spirit naturally
noble can feel toward itself when action and conscience are at war.

"Ah," said the woman, bitterly, "now you speak a language I know well. Why should I fear the
judgment-day?" she added, with a gloomy light in her eyes, as if communing with herself. "Nothing
worse can be said of me than I will say now. But," she sneered, turning sharply to Gregory,
"I do not think I have fallen so low as you."

"Probably not," he replied, with a grim laugh, and a significant shrug which he had learned
abroad. "I will not dispute my bad pre-eminence. Come, Vight, or whatever your name is," he
continued, rising, "make up your mind quickly what you are going to do. I am a weak man, morally
and physically. If you intend to shoot me, or let your dog make a meal of me, let us have it
over as soon as possible. Since Miss Walton is safe, I am as well prepared now as I ever shall be."

"I entreat you," pleaded Annie, still clinging to the woman, "don't let any harm come to him."

"What is the use of touching him?" said the man, gruffly. Then turning to Gregory he asked,
"Do you still promise not to use your knowledge against me? You might do me more harm in New
York than here."

"I have promised once, and that is enough," said Gregory, irritably. "I keep my word for good
or evil, though you can't know that, and are fools for trusting me."

"I'll trust neither of you," said the man, with an oath. "Here, Dencie, I must talk with you
alone. I'm willing to do anything that's reasonable, but I'm not going to prison again alive,
mark" that (with a still more fearful imprecation). "Don't leave this room or I won't answer
for the consequences," he said, sternly to Gregory and Annie, at the same time looking significantly
at the dog.

Then he and the woman went into the back room, and there was an earnest and somewhat angry
consultation.

Gregory sat down and leaned his head on the table in a manner that showed he had passed beyond
despondency and fear into despairing indifference as to what became of him. He felt that henceforth
he must be simply odious to Miss Walton, that she would only tolerate his presence as long
as it was necessary, veiling her contempt by more politeness. In his shame and weakness he
would almost rather die than meet her true, honest eyes again.

Annie had the courage of principle and firm resolve, rather than that which is natural and
physical. The thought of sudden and violent death appalled her. If her impulsive nature were
excited, like that of a soldier in battle, she could forget danger. If in her bed at home she
were wasting with disease, she would soon submit to the Divine will with childlike trust. But
her whole being shrunk inexpressibly from violent and unnatural death. Never before did life
seem so sweet. Never before was there so much to live for. She could have been a martyr in
any age and in any horrible form for conscience' sake, but she would have met her fate tremblingly,
shrinkingly, and with intense longings for life. And yet with all this instinctive dread, her
trust in God and His promises would not fail. But instead of standing calmly erect on her faith,
and confronting destiny, it was her nature, in such terrible emergencies, to cling in loving
and utter dependence, and obey.

She therefore in no respect shared Gregory's indifference, but was keenly alive to the situation.

