As human consciousness intensifies through use, man finds himself passing on through his surface
zones to the concealed states of mind within himself, "the narrow way," and slowly, almost
unconsciously at first, he begins manifesting the law of these zones. In these states of mind
we find the philosopher, the idealist, the emotionalist, the psychist, the sensitive, the intuitionist,
the revelator, the transcendentalist and the seer.

Watching race evolution we see that the day of surface consciousness and its power is waning
only as it is controlled and manipulated through the subjective states of man's mind. The hour
for subjective research and subjective introspection is at hand,--men have mastered the external
world and its laws, and are now following the cosmic urge which is pushing them toward the
center and away from the apparent to the absolute laws of life.

The external evolution of form is complete for this hour; men go down into the bowels of the
earth, they sail the seas, they mount the air on wings, and the external world has seen "the
son of man coming in clouds of glory" and now the eternal man must have his hour, and come
in "trailing robes of power and brightness," to pour new revelation through the external world
and its laws.

Books, paintings, pictures, science, music have all had their day in external exaltation, and
now the attention of man is mounting higher and turning inward; the study of the surface and
sub-consciousness has been transferred, and while part of the world's eyes are yet peering
through the microscope at the sub-life and plenty are looking at the laws of life around them,
the transcendentalist with these truths locked fast in his mind, is turning to the undiscovered
states within himself, and is everywhere launching out into the unfathomed states of the supra-mind
of man.

Man has evolved like a planet through the stone age of mind and today with the planet in the
vibratory zone of water and air he has risen with it into the transcendent states of his own being.

Many transcendentalists are living so naturally in the beginning manifestations of the supra-mind
that they hardly recognize them as uncommon and the world is becoming peopled with a race of
supra-men and supra-women who are using the subtle laws of the transcendentalists of the past,
but not using them alone, or in hidden cloisters, or through separate states of living, but
using them as simple human attributes of their own mind, and using them in the common marts
of the surface life with more real understanding than did the olden transcendentalist in his
specialized separated environment, assisted by secluded study and special opportunities.

The modern transcendentalist is a post graduate of the surface consciousness, and uses it as
simply a wireless machine with which he registers his deeper perceptions, and with it links
himself and his revelation naturally to the natural world. He stands in natural communion with
both zones, and in this communion with deeper laws he attains a supra-power, he walks his human
pathway in human form, but he manipulates his surface life with the power born of his supra-wisdom.

The modern transcendentalists form the corner-stones of the new civilization. "For the new
age will come quickly to its birth when this His world, will know itself divine" and in this
new civilization the mass man will have for his surface consciousness, the deep subtle union
of both zones, and the specialized teacher, leader and messenger of this new age, will forge
ahead on the great white way of prophecy and seership which is born from the union of the finite
and infinite mind.

To the mind of the old civilization this will not seem true, for it is still in the swaddling
clothes of its old inheritance; in the thoughts of the past, man and God, matter and spirit,
finite and infinite have been so long divorced and separated that it will be found difficult
to accept the union of incense and worship and reverence in the same breath with the real,
the apparent and the formed, but this is the hour for higher prophecy, and that hour when the
"lion and the lamb shall lie down together."

To those who are really able to read the signs of the times, human consciousness everywhere
offers the greatest proof of this truth, for looking with eyes that can see, we find that every
individual is in possession of eight distinct states of consciousness with which he can operate
in the subjective and objective zones.

There may be still greater stretches of the human mind into union with the universal which
the oncoming races will discover, but that there are eight distinct levels of mind activity
many know because they have touched them and know them within themselves.

Some minds are active in one, some in two, some in three, and some in four, and some are more
or less distinct in all.

The mass man of the new civilization is awake in the third and fourth dimensions of his mind,
and those in higher reaches are awake in the fifth and sixth, a few are in the seventh and
eighth, but the rank and file are familiar to some degree with all these states.

The first or surface mind of man is in itself only cell consciousness, touched by man's own
intellect, and it is known as instinct, his second expression of mind is known as reason, the
third is emotion or feeling, and the fourth is instinct, reason and emotion blended into one,
and called intuition. The fifth and sixth are above the plane of thought and feeling and includes
them in a still higher intensification; here thinking ceases and registration is the law, and
here is where revelation is born. The seventh and eighth are still supra reaches of man's mind,
and include the union or surface consciousness with the higher states, in which the brain becomes
the wireless machine, through which flashes of divine wisdom comes; this is called Prophecy
and Seership and this is the product of the "mirror-mind."

There are bodies and atmospheres to fit each transcendent state of mind, and the transcendentalist
can suspend any, or all of his states of mind, one after another, and pass into direct atonement
with any level with which he wishes to function; he can at will live in a new world, and speak
with a new tongue, and fill his surface mind with a glory not its own, "but which it had with
Him before the world was."

These new states of mind in action extends man's world into the wider reaches of the universal
and adds to him new levels of wisdom and power.

There are reaches of intelligence far below and beyond the common intelligence as the microscope
and the telescope have shown, and at the fourth and fifth dimension of consciousness man dispenses
with all material aids and uses the adjustments of his own being. He has found the eyes, the
cars, and the understanding of the supra-self, and by suspending his surface mind through concentration
and meditation he can enter any sphere of thought at will and be in the land of clairvoyance,
clairaudience, and in the astral and atmospherian, or pass farther out and register in his
surface brain the wonders and laws of etherian, and celestial worlds. He is at one with the
world of the sensitive, the impressionist and the medium, and in the deeper states of vision
he can see and read the memory tablets of the universe. In the higher registrations he becomes
cosmo-voyant and cosmo-audient, he can see and hear through space and through ethers as the
common eye looks through air. These are not special gifts from God, but simply the gifts man
gives himself through the conscious use of what is already in his possession.

The power to extend sight and hearing far above and below the so-called senses is latent within
every individual and when the point of transcendental development is reached he uses it naturally.

There are some people who can see birds in the air, ships at sea, stars in the sky, while others
standing beside them see only empty space. Just so there are many everywhere on life's pathway
who can extend their normal vision and hearing to such an intensified vibratory rate that it
not only includes all the things of the physical plane but the things of the finer ethers.

The transcendentalist standing on the streets of New York can extend his vision and look at
a street or building in Chicago or Cairo or London, while the surface man alongside of him
can scarcely read the signs on the other side of the street.

The modern transcendentalist does only what the surface man does--he looks to see and brings
one hundred percent of his vision to bear upon his desire, while the surface man has less than
ten percent of himself in action and that only on one plane.

There are enough people on the planet today who can use these deep states of mind, and induce
the extended vision and hearing at will to make it more than a mere hypothetical conclusion;
there are X-ray beings among us who have come into contact with a great fundamental principle
both within and without themselves.

The time will come in the near future, when the operator with the Roentgen ray will stand beside
his machine and look with wide open eyes and find the X-ray in his own vision, and will work
unlimited by the bondage of his material machine.

Comparing the modern transcendentalist and his pathway with that of the olden transcendentalist
with his ascent of travail and pain, we find a profound satisfaction in the picture of power,
peace and love of the modern supra-man.

The pathway of the elder supra-man was one of crucifixion, self-denial, renunciation, affliction,
poverty, disease and self-mortification. He found the steps to the higher consciousness and
its power only through slow self-conquest and comradeship with pain, and this was the inheritance
he handed down through the centuries. To think in terms of mystical wisdom meant human denial
of all sentient life. Unification was bought through total consecration to the subjective and
the absolute, in which the diverse could have no part.

Today "we are free where our sires were serfs, we can see where He left them blind," and we
know that God-consciousness is man's immortal birthright and that the son of man must somewhere
on his pathway become the son of God, and as he passes on in his unfoldment he will contact
every atom of God-mind in all lines of expression, and from the world of matter he will turn
in time naturally to those levels of mind which lead him into reverence, illumination and worship,
and through this he finds the whole of life.

Man in his immersion into cosmic consciousness puts forth profound tests of his oneness and
faces life in larger and larger proportions, and as he ascends he carries all with him, so
that he can give back to all a profound and heroic response.

Every man is transcendent when the hour dawns for his transcendent self to tremble into action.

With these wider reaches of consciousness the modern transcendentalist finds the larger LIFE
and the true way of living, and in this brings the new message of the "One life in all and
through all" into the mass mind, and the new song of joy and thanksgiving into their hearts.
He is never sad, never agonizing, never renouncing; he has made contact with all life and through
this with the universal joy; there is no denial, no separateness,--there is "no more crying,"
he conquers and ascends not through separateness but through increasing degrees of union. He
lives in glad comradeship with God, in joy and perfected self-expression, both in the objective
and in the subjective world.

The ancient transcendentalist was always sad, always separate, always worshipping in beatific
loneliness, in seclusion and renunciation of the world; the modern supra-man passes from end
to end of the pole of being and stops at any point and functions normally. "He stands and works,
then kneels and prays." He is lord of the outside external world and partaker of all its divine
joys and pleasures, and he is lord of all the deeper reaches of subjective consciousness within
himself and the absolute in which he lives, and he brings out from these deeper levels all
the intensified power of illumination and revelation, and pours it over his daily pathway illumining
it with a glory not its own.

Many olden transcendentalists lived on in entranced states of divine wisdom with diseased flesh
and bodies that shrieked with pain, while they mortified and rejected that divine wisdom. The
modern transcendentalist brings all his God-consciousness to bear upon his flesh and raises
it to the transcendent heights of his own mind and heals it until bone and muscle and tissues
gleam and scintillate with a new found beauty and youth.

The olden transcendentalist dragged on in barren cells and dreary poverty in order not to divert
his glorified vision of the formless by the beauty of the ever present form; the modern transcendentalist
brings his higher laws into play, conquers his poverty and commands around himself the beauty
and luxury and freedom of the world of form, and it speaks to him in matchless raiment, luxuriant
flowers, gems, material comforts and soft ease. He lives in rapturous companionship with the
glory and beauty and majesty of God in the world He has projected from Himself, and with this
beneath him, he can rise to the very pinnacle of infinite selfhood.

The olden transcendentalist, ascending into the transcendental heights of his own mind, ascended
alone, and from these obscure heights he shed his wisdom back upon the evolving race; he was
pioneer in the lands of cosmic consciousness and the first revelator of the path; he showed
the race that the path was there to tread, and his messages have fallen as a benediction on
the race mind even while he himself bought his wisdom with pain, renunciation and suffering
built from the limited recognition of his own mind.

The path winds onward and upward still, but the feet of those climbing it today are led by
still waters and in the paths of righteousness. They are no longer in the part but are in the
middle of the Divine Channel of God-consciousness. To know one part was the mission of the
past; to know all parts and join them in a divine unity is the mission of the present.

The modern transcendentalist does not love life less, he loves it more! The world is alive
with a new majesty; the passing multitude, the passing face, every human attribute of life
calls forth from him a deeper interpretation; he walks out into the race mind, and with the
power of a new word, and a new touch heals it from its infirmity. He does in truth give "absent
treatments," and his word is accomplished; the old diseased flesh transmutes in answer to his
command. He speaks to the barren walls of poverty and they stretch away into stately halls,
for he knows that wherever man posits his consciousness, substance must gather round it; his
new words of power and majesty fall like a benediction on the heart of the listening multitudes,
and they turn round to face a new tomorrow with a new hope born of a larger understanding.

The transcendentalist walks often in our midst; sometimes he assumes the simplicity of a child
to disguise the larger stretches of power within him, but he is out upon the pathway strong
and beautiful, wholly replete with promises of perfection, doing the work of the human.

There is a royal road from appearance to reality, from objective to subjective, from the limited
to the absolute.

Difference is merging into one great white way through which the new civilization is thronging,
led by the intensified vision of the supra-minds.

Unity has carried man above all things of human law, and he has found that Mighty Force of
which all is a part, and he is out into the land of "naked visions" and knows.

He dwells securely upon the height and has ceased the long fight with the objective half of
himself; he is one with matter because he has transcended and absorbed it; he is centralized
in the formless and spiritualized in the formed, and can say from the level of his own Christ
consciousness:

  "I and my Father are one."

  "All that my Father hath is mine."

The Psychology of Insanity

With the ever present increase of insanity, it is not only interesting but important that the
subject of insanity should be studied from all view-points, and anything which can be contributed
that will help in controlling or curing it, should be accepted as good material.

It is an apparent fact that the multitude knows very little about the cause of insanity and
less about the cure. Investigation has in the past been directed to the physical side of the
disease, and many of the insane hospitals are examples of physical comfort and perfect physical
attention, but they are also living examples of the fact that to house, feed and clothe the
demented does not necessarily mean a cure, and a call for deeper understanding is imperative.

Civilization needs each individual as a unit in the great working force of life, and those
who need to be taken care of by a State take away a legitimate support and add just that much
more to the burden of the State.

A civilization which can increase the independence of the individual and lessen the responsibility
of the State is one to be directly desired.

Insanity calls for a closer study than has ever been given and only through a deeper realization
of its cause, can a cure be brought about and individuals rendered of value to themselves and
the country.

Insanity is nothing more or less than disassociated states of mind and need not in reality
be any more serious than errors of refraction of vision, faulty locomotion or lack of coordination.
It comes because individuals know nothing of the psychology of themselves or their own minds
and is the result of over-intensified mental and physical activity and loss of poise, physically,
mentally and psychically. The insane are not capable of understanding themselves, and up to
the present day there are very few who are able to understand them.

The nurses, matrons and physicians of a great asylum are powerless to assist them because of
their own ignorance of the true laws of psychology. The cases which simple, natural, physical
methods will assist, are cured, but thousands of others are allowed to drag along with the
dreadful stigmata of "hopelessly insane."

Insanity is increasing because civilization is changing, and conditions are changing. As conditions
change the minds of men change and today subjective states of mind in the individual are becoming
intensified. Instinct, reason, emotion, intuition, revelation and prophecy are all struggling
for expression; unrelated and misunderstood they become disease; related and understood they
can be made to bring forth a new race with new extensive reaches of intelligence.

There are few people so stupid but that they can testify to the conflicting states of emotions
within themselves and there are many people who are perfectly familiar with states of consciousness
with which many other people are entirely unfamiliar.

Wherever we go we are continually confronted with what the world calls "freaky" or "eccentric"
people, and these people are found in all degrees from the slightly odd folks to those filling
the asylums, and strange as it may seem, no matter how queer they may appear to other people,
they never seem so to themselves.

There are many families with members whom the rest call irrational, irresponsible or "black
sheep." Again, there are many families who have one child who, from the time of its birth,
has called for methods of management entirely different from those used for the other children.
There are many little sensitive creatures who are afraid of the dark and who have queer ideas
and odd ways, and there are delicate little people who have bodies so finely organized that
they are nearly broke into pieces with the natural things which the other members never notice.
They are born sensitives and remain sensitives to the end of their lives, and only as they
can be taught the truth about themselves can they be rescued from some form of mental disturbances.

These people as they grow older, become what is termed "psychics"; they are over-intensified
in some of their deeper states of mind. They are not alone the product of civilization, but
the product of race evolution. Many of them pass on in semi-normal states of self-support,
but they are a well known class, and they are more or less unsuccessful in supporting themselves
along natural lines of labor, and if they inherit wealth they run into vagaries and often degenerate
lines of living; they squander their all and die in charity.

The common business world is full of psychics and it is correspondingly full of failures for
this is not a faculty that makes for success or power with material things.

Psychics who are only slightly disassociated are always a source of annoyance to their friends,
and often looked upon as irresponsible, and have to be looked after by some one who has patience
enough to be with them, and often they are passed along as having an artistic temperament.

As long as their peculiar development does not interfere with normal action they are unmolested
by the public. It is only when deeper states of mind become so over-intensified that they lose
their normal relationship to normal things of the world that they are put under control. They
are called paranoics, melancholics, demented and insane. A correct mental training would teach
them to re-associate their mind and to live a moderately normal life, at least. All drunkards
and drug fiends are psychics; degenerates are also psychics. These conditions are simply the
result of loss of polarity of normal mind centers, resulting in the conflict of states of consciousness
within themselves.

There are also many psychics in the ignorant and undeveloped classes. The witch women and seers,
and many of the colored races are psychic. In the past, these people were looked upon as witches
and their words and works were known as "witchcraft."

There are many psychics who are also great geniuses. Lord Byron and the "Mad Painter" of Belgium
were psychics. History is rife and galleries of art and temples of literature stand as testimonials
to some of the constructive productions of their minds, but beside them run dark stories born
of their psychic uncertainty.

Criminals of certain types are psychics with no power of physical control and they pass into
subjective control and live and do the things that are given them to do from the psychical
mind and are often ignorant of their own condition.

Those whom the medical profession call paranoics are simply psychics, over-developed in the
subjective faculties--a prey to all the disembodied forces of the subjective plane, and also
to every floating thought on the physical plane; they are obsessed by ideas from within and
without and their actions bear witness to this statement. Some very meddlesome women, and those
who are the terror of a quiet community, are nearly always those who are in the control of
the slower psychic forces and unable to conciously direct their own normal states of mind.

In science the psychics are called diseased. Science gives all actions a physical basis, but
it is time to know that abnormal states of consciousness, that are only changes in the functional
side of the mind and which have no apparent physical basis, are found in thousands.

Neurasthenics and psychasthenics present the mildest picture of disordered states of mind.
All neurasthenics and psychasthenics are psychics and their diseases can only be fully understood
by the psychologist. The scientist has long ago exhausted his knowledge of the cause and cure
of these diseases and this is why all branches of metaphysical healing are overcrowded.

To understand this abnormal thing called "insanity," one must fully understand the normal,
called "sanity." There are four distinct states of consciousness in every individual; these
must be kept co-related and all of them manifest through the common everyday mind. These four
states of consciousness are instinct, reason, emotion and intuition. These four states of consciousness
are functions of the normal mind. When a patient becomes over-intensified in either one of
these parts of the mind, mental disease results. The psychic is over-intensified in the emotional
and intuitional functions of his mind, thus rendering his common sense states uncommon, and
according to the degree of over-activity, he is either a "freak," a creature of "temperament,"
a "genius" or a "dementia."

The ordinarily insane individual has lost all relationship with his natural, instinctive and
reasoning mind. He is disassociated. Reason, instinct, emotion and intuition are all in conflict
within him. The emotional and intuitional faculties overfunctioning distort his common understanding.
His idea centers are not able to distinguish between the real and the unreal in thoughts. He
becomes possessed and obsessed by ideas born of emotion and intuition that have no foundation
in fact, and as time goes on, he loses complete control of his idea centers.

Every individual has definite idea centers within his own brain, and it is through these centers
that ideas are coordinated, received or rejected. As over-intensification of feeling and emotion
goes on, the normal action of the idea centers is interfered with and the individual has superinduced
emotional and intuitional states which are no longer guarded by reason and thought. The emotion
senses a purely imaginary condition and the idea centers have no power to reduce it to truth.
As time goes on, all power of association is lost and the individual passes along, the plaything
of his subjective states of mind. As he becomes more and more intensified subjectively, he
opens the deep psychic currents both within and without himself, and loses his connection with
his common mind and his physical body, and becomes a prey to all the psychic currents.

There are lives everywhere open to subjective thought currents, and all unknown to themselves
they are allowing themselves to become disintegrated by the daily and hourly response they
are giving to the stimulus of a plane they should master instead of allowing it to master them.

The psychic plane may become a pathway to power, or it may become the open doorway to a body
and mind full of disease, insanity and absolute loss of power and poise.

There are many patients confined in the asylums today, who would never have been there, and
who would be released and cured, if those in charge fully understood the truth of this unnaturally
natural development and directed their attention to its control.

The first truth is, people are born into what is to them natural relationship with this psychic
plane and go on for years misunderstood, pained and repressed, unable to rescue themselves
from what they do not understand, and in the end the physical body does become diseased by
the continual inroads of strain and repression; functional disorder and anatomical changes
result. The farmer's wife loses her mental balance through repression of the fine emotional,
intuitional side of her mind which finds no expression in the dull environment of the farm.
The over-worked mother loses her mental poise; disassociation follows over-stimulation of the
practical and repression of the artistic; and in emotional patients exaggerated states of feeling
go on into greater disassociation for lack of strong sensible thought control.

And the second truth is, that many are born so close in relationship to the unseen plane and
in such psychical correspondence, that some slight thing which weakens the will-power--sorrow,
a disease that devitalizes the physical, some shock, or some prolonged or strained mental condition,
breaks down the remaining law of separation, and the life is astray in the psychical world,
manifesting abnormal, physical laws.

There is one great connecting link between the physical and the psychical through which all
abnormal conditions can be corrected, and this is will power. When this power of will is broken,
the life must become a manifestation of error, according to the generally accepted idea of
normal relationship.

The will-power of an individual is dependent upon his ideation. Weaken his power to carry an
idea, and his will grows correspondingly weak; the will must follow the idea; it is not a separate
entity-- will only exists in partnership with the idea.

Ideation, willing and motion are the great human trinity from which everything else originates.
When we inspect our minds, we find that a voluntary motion is always preceded by the idea of
that motion. The idea is first and the will follows the idea. Ideas have definite sensory centers
in the cortex of the brain and conscious ideation may be induced to produce a particular form
of willing. All voluntary action depends, first, upon the ideas of action, then the willing
to do, then the doing. The will-power, in its accelerating and restraining impulses, is modified
by the degree of the intensity of the idea. Grief, fear, worry, anger, despondency, anxiety,
hate, resistance are all negative ideas that weaken the idea centers and produce weakness of
willing. These ideas persisted in at first produce indecision and after a while absolute inaction
because the patient has lost the perfect co-relation of his idea centers, which associate instinct,
reason, emotion and intuition.

In order to get complete control of the will we must get complete control of the idea centers
and induce strong, positive ideas which the will cannot refuse to follow.

When we associate all states of consciousness--instinct, reason, emotion, and intuition, in
one strong, centralized idea, it is impossible for physical expression to do anything else
than follow this idea.

When one has come into certain conditions of negativeness in any part of his mind, and continues
in it for any length of time, it takes more than his own power to modify these intensified
conditions and bring about an inhibiting power of mind which will crowd them out, and allow
the idea centers to receive a new thought-form and intensify it so that the will can pass it
into action.

The abnormal individual is always weak in obeying his ideas and carrying out his impulse because
there is a dissociation of idea centers and his mind becomes mixed in its responses and he
cannot make for a true, harmonious expression on all of the planes of mind within himself--this
is the condition of the neurasthenic and psychasthenic, and he needs some mind stronger than
his own to hold his ideas true to what he knows to be true.

The first lesson for the diseased mental patient to learn is that if he wants to keep his mental
balance or restore it, he must first inhibit all negative ideation and refuse to allow himself
to be driven into wild bursts of psychical or mental energy along any one line. He must force
himself to interest his mind in other things and to inhibit the over-active states of thinking.
This is best done by a complete change of environment, and often a change of friends. Friends
and environment, more than any other things, have the greatest power of keeping the mind intensified
in its old thought ruts.

There is little hope of receiving a new ideation and acting upon it, when one allows himself
day after day to drag through the same central sensations and receive the same nerve impulses,
and register the same responses. By removing to a new environment, and substituting new mental
and psychical vibrations the old states of consciousness are allowed to rest while a new unworked
state of mind begins.

Psychical development is not a disease; it is an attribute of individual growth; no one is
to blame if he has it or has it not; all that anyone needs to know is the truth about it and
just how to control it and direct it. Subjective hearing and vision come just as naturally
to us as life and death--they are a part of the great plan of unfoldment.

In teaching man to co-relate his many states of developing consciousness into one powerful
state of mind, we use our everyday common sense. We give him a place of mental power and after
such training he opens or shuts his mind to suit himself; he can live in either extension of
consciousness at will and extending his understanding into the transcendent side of his own
mind, he can become the modern mystic or seer. He can function in the purely material side
of himself or he can become an intensified psychic or mystic by simply suspending and intensifying
different centers within himself.

Concentration, centralization in ideas, conscious mental substitution, creation of strong mental
ideas, and psychic displacement of the negative with the positive, both by the patient within
himself and from the attendant or physician without, will bring insanity under control.

When men fully understand their own mind's scope, they will find that what the world calls
un-natural states of consciousness, are only cerebral and psychic disassociation.

The greater freedom of the race, and the cure and control of insanity will be found in the
deeper study of all levels of mind rather than the one or the few. Only as physical science
unites with metaphysical, and these both unite with scientific psychical investigation, will
humanity pass toward a solution of its insanity problems. Insanity, delusions, hallucinations,
the so-called mental diseases will pass just because they have been naturally displaced by
our higher scientific preventive psycho-therapy.

The asylum doors will only open as a place of refuge where men and women will be taught the
psychology of the self; there will be schools not cells. Outside the asylum doors there will
be an ever increasing crowd of intelligent men and women psychologists, who will be awake to
the first hint of psychic disassociation in an individual. With keen insight and scientific
direction, they will teach the beginning paranoic, melancholic, neurasthenic, clairvoyant and
psychasthenic the truth about themselves and the first hint of disassociation will be replaced
by association, and rest homes, asylums and sanitarium doors will close forever!

The Law Eternal

"For since the fathers fell asleep all things continue as they were from the Creation."

Whenever we read the stories in the Bible, our minds are held with a deep interest, for through
all its pages and in all its words, there breathes out the history of the hopes, dreams and
aspirations of human hearts, and above every other story or hope or dream, there stands first
in absorbing interest the history of the man Jesus, with his wonderfully inspired life. This
wonderful Christ life as given in history is a benediction to the world, and his teachings
have given us a great inextinguishable hope. In all his history there is one profound principle
that never becomes obscured, and that is his eternal adherence to the Law of Life. He never
forgot to speak the word that should show the true laws of Cause and Effect.

Nearly all the people of his day followed the letter of his word and not the spirit. When he
spoke in parables they interpreted in fact, and even when he said: "I go to prepare a place
for you, and if I go and prepare a place, I will come again and receive ye unto myself, that
where I am, there ye may be also," they believed and interpreted it to mean really material
facts, and began to build up their finite hope for a future kingdom, totally blind to the deep
subjective law of his spoken word.

They really believed that if they waited a few years, at most, Jesus would return unto them,
and in triumph and power gather them together and raise up a community of peace and love in
this earth plane. They believed that through this they would become monarchs of a new world.
Nothing in their minds revealed the impossibility of material form without fundamental facts
beneath them.

The sick and suffering and discouraged of every class, knowing nothing of the higher laws,
laid this hope to their hearts, and filled with a courage built on this belief, they taught
themselves to stand silent beneath scorn and persecution, feeling inwardly, that when the hour
of Christ's return came, their life would suddenly become powerful through some new dispensation.

The years came and went, one after another the apostles died with their hope still in their
hearts; at last, only the lengthened life of John was left on which to hang expectancy, then
he, too, died and the Jesus of their hope had not returned. Even then the church was reluctant
to give up its teaching of the letter and it still held, that even while a few followers remained
whose term reached back to Christ's time, it was not too late for his return, and the son of
man might yet be sustained in his earthly kingdom.

Time went on until even the oldest memories of the promises passed; change after change came,
and man could no longer find a finite place for his faith and trust, and then, as human life
was pushed on by the great resistless ebb-tide of the Infinite, those who were still clinging
to this false hope, broke forth in a wail of despair, and they cried, "Where is the promise
of His coming?" "For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the
creation."

We who read their history today and know the truth of Life's finer relationships, cannot but
feel a pity for their failure, and the lingering death of their expectancy, even while we see
that it was built on superficial human understanding.

In the great unrelated, ignorant hope of these people, we can read in letters of fire, the
proof of the certainty of disappointment of every human hope that has not its conscious union
with the great universal Laws of Life.

We can see now with the calm vision of those who have no part in their superstition that their
hope was never built on the understanding and wisdom of creation, but upon weak, human desires
and narrow personal expectation.

It can easily be seen that under the great Law Eternal it was not possible, that after training
only a small part of the human race-thought there could be a return, a king of any sort, or
that there could follow the perfecting of the race in any such a narrow, limited, personal way.

When Truth has become revealed to the minds of men, they at once see that laws remain, and
that the human race is bound to fit itself to these, and looking back over the centuries, and
on into the future, we find that Jesus taught us when he said, "I come not to destroy the Law,
but to fulfill it."

