They soon began to take a surprisingly agreeable form, for the quick warm sympathies of the
Southern people were touched. Here was a young girl, the representative of one of the oldest
and best families, seeking quietly and unostentatiously to support herself and her aged aunt.
There had been scores of people who would gladly have offered her assistance, but they had
respected her reticence in regard to her affairs as jealously as they guarded the condition
of their own. Frank in the extreme with each other in most respects, there was an impoverished
class in the city who would suffer much rather than reveal pecuniary need or accept the slightest
approach to charity. Poverty was no reproach among these families that had once enjoyed wealth
in abundance. Indeed it was rather like a badge of honor, for it indicated sacrifice for the
"lost cause" and an unreadiness for thrifty compacts and dealings with those hostile to that
cause. In the class to which Mara belonged, therefore, she gained rather than lost in social
consideration, and especial pains were taken to assure her of this fact.

Those in whose veins, even in Mrs. Hunter's estimation, flowed the oldest and bluest blood,
called more frequently and spoke words of cheer and encouragement. That good lady, in a rich
but antiquated gown, received the guests and was voluble in Mara's praises and in lamentation
over the wrongs of the past. The majority were sympathetic listeners, but all were glad that
the girl could do and was willing to do something more than complain. To their credit it should
be said that they were ready to do more than sympathize, for even the most straitened found
that they could spare something for Mara's cake, and Aun' Sheba's basket began to be emptied
more than once every day. Orders were given also, and the young girl had all she could do to
keep up with the growing demand.

It was well for her that each day brought its regular work, and its close found her too weary
for the brooding so often the bane of idleness. Yet, in spite of all that was encouraging,
the cheering words spoken to her, the elation of Aun' Sheba and the excitement resulting from
her humble prosperity, she was ever conscious of a dull ache at heart. Clancy had gone North
for an indefinite absence, and it looked as if their separation were final. In vain she assured
herself that it was best that they should not meet again until both were satisfied that their
paths led apart. She knew that she had hoped his path would come back to hers--that in secret
she hoped this still, with a pathetic persistence which defied all effort. She believed, however,
that such effort was her best resource, for he was again under the influences she most feared
and detested. At times she reproached herself for having been too reserved, too proud and passionate
in her resentment at his course. He had asked her to convince him of his error if she could,
and she had not only failed to make such effort, but also had denied him the hope that would
have been more than all argument. Thus, at variance with her heart, she alternated between
the two extremes of anger at his course and regret and compunction at her own. As a rule, though,
her resolute will enabled her to concentrate her thoughts on daily occupations and immediate
interests, and it became her chief aim to so occupy herself with these interests that no time
should be left for thoughts which now only tended to distress and discourage.

Mara was a girl who consciously would be controlled by a few simple motives rather than by
impulses, circumstances or the influence of others. We have seen that loyalty, as she understood
it, was her chief motive. Her love for parents she had never seen was profound, and all relating
to them was sacred. To do what she believed would be pleasing to them, what would now reflect
honor upon their memory, was her supreme duty. All other motives would be dominated by this
pre-eminent one and all action guided by it. She felt that the effort to provide for her aunt,
the one remaining member of her family, and to enable her to spend her remaining days in the
congenial atmosphere of the past, would certainly be in accord with her parents' wishes. Then
by natural sequence her sympathies went out to those whose fortunes, like her own, had been
wrecked by the changes against which they could interpose only a helpless protest. In various
ways she learned of those of her own class who had been disabled and impoverished, whose lives
were stripped of the embroidery of pleasant little gratifications only permitted by a surplus
of income. It gradually came to be a cherished solace after the labors of the morning, to carry
to the sick and afflicted, dwelling in homes of faded gentility like her own, some delicacy
made by her own hands. While these were received in the spirit in which they were brought,
the girl's lovely, sympathetic face was far more welcome, and the orphan began to embody to
those of the old regime the cause for which they all had suffered so much. Within this limited
circle Mara was kindness and gentleness itself, beyond it cold and unapproachable. Occasionally
some, with whom she had no sympathy, sought to patronize her. They intimated that they were
willing to buy lavishily, but it was also evident that they wished their good-will appreciated
and reciprocated in ways that excited the girl's scorn. In spite of her poverty and homely
work, it was known that she was a favorite in the most aristocratic circle in the city, and
there are always those ready to seek social recognition in many and devious ways. These pushing
people represented to Mara the Northern element and leaven in the city, and she soon made it
clear that there was an invisible line beyond which they could not pass. Their orders were
either declined or scrupulously filled, if her time permitted, but with a quiet tact which
was inflexible she warded off every approach which was not purely commercial.

CHAPTER X

MISS AINSLEY

While in New York, Owen Clancy had been kept informed of the drift of those events in which
he was especially interested. While Mara's effort had increased his admiration for her, its
success had still further discouraged his hope. In his way he was as proud as she was. He had
committed himself to a totally different line of action, for in his business relations he had
been led into friendly relations with many Northern people in both cities. He had accepted
and returned their hospitalities in kind as far as it was possible for a young bachelor of
modest means. This courtesy had been expected and accepted as a matter of course, and to exchange
it for cold, freezing politeness limited only to matters of trade, would not only subject him
to ridicule but cut short his business career. Considerations supreme in Mara's circle were
ignored by the great world, and, having once felt the impulses of the large currents of life,
it would be impossible for Clancy to withdraw into the little side eddy wherein thought was
ever turning back to no purpose. Having clasped hands and broken bread with the men and women
of the North, he felt that he could not, and would not stultify himself, even for the sake
of his love, by any change toward them. They would despise him not only as a miracle of narrowness
but also as an insincere man, whose courtesy had been but business policy, easily dropped at
the bidding of some more pressing interest.

His last interview with Mara had depressed him exceedingly, for while it had increased his
love it had also revealed to him the radical divergence in their views and made it more clear
that he could only hope to win her love by the sacrifice of self-respect. He must cease to
be a thinking, independent man, a part of his own day and generation, and fix his thoughts
upon the dead issues of the past. "The idea," he would mutter, "of sitting down and listening
to Mrs. Hunter's inane and endless lament." He could not conform to Mara's views without being
guilty of hypocrisy also, and she proved her narrowness by not recognizing this truth.

After all, the point of view was chiefly the cause of the trouble between them. She had ever
dwelt in the shaded valley; he had been on the mountain-top, and so had secured a broad range
of vision. He had come into contact with the great forces which were making the future and
the men of the future, and he recognized that his own State and his own people must be vitalized
by these forces or else be left far behind. And he represented a large and increasing class
in his native city. In birth and breeding he was the peer of Mara or any of her aristocratic
circle. He had admission to the best society in the State, and, if looked upon coldly by some,
it was for the same reasons which actuated the girl for whom he would gladly yield everything
except his principles and right of private judgment.

While he had many warm, sympathetic friends he felt that the old should give way to the new,
he yet ran against the prejudices which Mara embodied so often that he began to feel ill at
ease in Charleston.

He thought of removing permanently to cosmopolitan New York more than once during his absence
North. If he should be fully convinced after his return that Mara was lost to him, unless he
became a part of her implacable and reactionary coterie, it might be better for his peace of
mind that he were far away.

One evening, before his departure home, he was invited to dine with a gentleman who had large
railroad interests in the South. Mr. Ainsley was a widower, a man of wealth, and absorbed in
the pleasure of its increase. He had made a business acquaintance with Clancy, and, finding
him unusually intelligent and well informed in regard to Southern matters, naturally wished
to converse more at length with him. The cordial invitation, the hearty welcome of the Northern
capitalist could scarcely fail in gratifying the young Southerner, who keenly felt the importance
of interesting just such men as his host in the enterprises under consideration. During the
preliminary talk in the library of his palatial home, Mr. Ainsley soon discovered that his
guest was not only well informed but frank and honest in statements, giving the cons as well
as the pros, in spite of an evident desire to secure for the South all the advantages possible.

Before going to the dining-room, Miss Caroline, his host's only daughter, entered the library
and was presented. Clancy was fairly dazzled by her remarkable beauty. She was a blonde of
the unusual type characterized by dark eyes and golden hair. Naturally, therefore, the first
impression of beauty was vivid, nor was it banished by closer observation. As she presided
with ease and grace at her father's table, Clancy found himself fascinated as he had never
been before by a stranger.

Although their table-talk lost its distinctively business and statistical character, Mr. Ainsley
still pursued his inquiries in a broad, general way, and the daughter also asked questions
in regard to life and society at the South which indicated a personal interest on her part.

At last she said, "Papa thinks it quite possible that we may spend some time in your region,
and in that case we should probably make Charleston our headquarters. I have a friend, Mrs.
Willoughby--do you know her?"

"Yes, indeed; a charming lady. She resides on the Battery."

"I'm glad you know her. I met her abroad, and we became very fond of each other. She has often
asked me to visit her, but as I rarely leave Papa, the way has never opened."

"My daughter is very good in accompanying me in my various business expeditions," her father
explained, "and you know they do not often lead to fashionable watering-places, nor can they
always be adjusted to such seasons as I could desire. I wish I could go to Charleston at an
early date, but in view of other interests, I cannot tell when I can get away."

"When I do come, I shall make the most of my name and insist on being regarded as a Carolinian,"
said Miss Ainsley, laughing.

Clancy was pleased with the conceit and the delicate compliment implied, but he was already
impressed with the idea that his hostess was the most cosmopolitan girl that he had ever met.
She piqued his curiosity, and he led her to talk of her experiences abroad. Apparently she
had been as much at home in Europe as in America, and had been received in the highest social
circles everywhere. When after dinner she played for him some brilliant, difficult classical
music, he began to regard her a perfect flower of metropolitan culture. Yet she perplexed him.
She revealed so much about herself without the slightest hesitation, yet at the same time seemed
to veil herself completely. He and her father could broach no topic of conversation in which
she could not take an intelligent part. Matters of European policy were touched upon, and she
was at home in regard to them. She smiled broadly when he tried to explain to her father that
patience would still be required with the South, but that in time the two parts of the country
would be more firmly welded together than ever. "Such antipathies amuse me," she said. "It
is one side keeping up a quarrel which the other has forgotten all about."

"The circumstances are different, Miss Ainsley," Clancy replied. "The war cost me my father,
my property, and impoverished my State."

He could not tell whether her eyes expressed sympathy or not, for they had beamed on him with
a soft alluring fire from the first, but her father spoke up warmly: "The North has not forgotten,
especially the older generation. We have not suffered materially and have become absorbed in
new interests, but the heart of the North was wounded as truly as that of the South. I wish
to assure you, Mr. Clancy, how deeply I sympathize with and honor your spirit of conciliation.
What is there for us all but to be Americans? Believe me, sir, such men as yourself are the
strength and hope of your section."

"I believe with you, Mr. Ainsley, that it has been settled that we are to have but one destiny
as a nation, but in justice to my people I must say that our wounds were so deep and the changes
involved so vast that it is but reasonable we should recover slowly. You may say that we committed
errors during the reconstruction period, yet they were errors natural to a conquered people.
In the censure we have received from many quarters we have been almost denied the right to
our common human nature. Possibly the North, in our position would not have acted very differently.
But the past is past, and the question is now, what is right and wise? I know that I represent
a strong and growing sentiment which desires the unity and prosperity of the entire country.
I in turn, sir, can say that men like yourself, in coming among us and investing their money
do more than all politicians in increasing this sentiment. It proves that you trust us; and
trust begets trust and good feeling. The North, however, will always be mistaken if it expects
us to denounce our fathers or cease to honor the men who fought and prayed for what they believed
was right."

"Suppose, Mr. Clancy," Miss Ainsley asked, with mirthful eyes, "that a party in the South had
the power to array your section against the North again, would you go with your section?"

"Oh, come, Carrie, it is scarcely fair to ask tests on utterly improbable suppositions," said
her father laughing, yet he awaited Clancy's answer with interest.

"No," he said quietly, "not with the light I now possess. I would have done so five years ago.
Are Northern young men so intrinsically wise and good that they are not influenced by their
traditions and immediate associations?"

"Mr. Clancy, where are your eyes? Go to the Delmonico cafe at noon to-morrow, and observe the
flower of our patrician youth taking their breakfast. You will see beings who are intrinsically
what they are."

"I fear we are rather even in this respect," said Clancy, laughing. "You have your metropolitan
dudes and manikins, and we our rural ruffians, slaves of prejudice, who hate progress, schools
and immigration, as they do soap and water. There is some consideration for our fellows, however,
for they scarcely know any better, and many of their characteristics are bred in the bone.
It would almost seem that the class you refer to are fools and nonentities from choice."

"I fear not," she said, lifting her eyebrows, "if I were a medical student I should be tempted
to kill one of them--it wouldn't be murder--to see if he had a brain."

"You think brain, then, is absolutely essential?'

"Yes, indeed. I could endure a man without a heart, but not if he were a fool. If a man is
not capable of thinking himself into what is sensible he is a poor creature."

Clancy shrugged his shoulders in slight protest and soon after took his leave, having first
acquiesced in an appointment with Mr. Ainsley at his office in the morning.

On the way to his hotel and until late into the night, he thought over his experiences of the
evening. Did Miss Ainsley intend to compliment him by suggesting that he was thinking himself
into what was sensible? It was difficult to tell what she intended as far as he was concerned.
"She could only have the most transient interest in such a stranger as I am," he reasoned,
"yet her eyes were like magnets. They both fascinate and awaken misgivings. Perhaps they are
the means by which she discovers whether a man is a fool or not; if he speedily loses his head
under their spells, she mentally concludes, weighs and finds wanting. Probably, however, like
hosts of pretty women, she simply enjoys using her powers and seeing men succumb; and men not
forearmed and steeled as I am, might well hesitate to see her often, for my impression is right
strong that she has more brain than heart. Yet she is a dazzling creature. Jove, what a contrast
to Mara! Yet there is a nobility and womanly sincerity in Mara's expression than I cannot discover
in Miss Ainsley's face. However wrong Mara may be, you are sure she is sincere and that she
would be true to her conscience even if she put the whole North to the sword; but this brilliant
girl--how much conscience and heart has she? Back of all her culture and accomplishments there
is a woman; yet what kind of a woman? Well, the prospects are that I may have a chance to find
out when she comes South. One thing is certain, she will not discover that I am a fool by speedily
kindling a vain sentiment. Yet I would like to find her out, to discover the moral texture
of her being. A girl like Miss Ainsley could more than fulfil a man's ideal or else make his
life a terror."

He called again just before his departure, and saw her alone. As at first, she appeared to
veil the woman in her nature completely, while, at the same time, the mild lightning of her
eyes played about him.

