When matrimony occurred, divorce was its natural consequence. Incompatibility was sufficient
cause. Cicero, who has given it to history that the best women counted the years not numerically,
but by their different husbands, obtained a divorce on the ground that his wife did not idolize
him.

Divorce was not obligatory. Matrimony was. 

In the confusion, they forgot the monastic rule of silence, whispering the most incredible stories in Fruehlicht
about the day in the forgotten tower, which should have happened and brought about the reverend
mother's death. The masked prince of exaggeration has been there for years, and was kidnapped in the night,
though others have said he was strangled.

One thing is certain, old Mirabili, who can was alone in the dungeon before sunlight could creep
in, was loaded with heavy chains and a dying face at the monastery gates. If it is any consolation,
sister, I saw the wailing old man with my own eyes, charged with more iron than anyone can hope to
drag.

"Ho sempre amato la solitaria vita," Petrarch, referring to himself, declared, and Tiberius
might have said the same thing. He was in love with solitude; ill with efforts for the unattained;
sick with the ingratitude of man. Presently it was decided that he had lived long enough. He
was suffocated--beneath a mattress at that. Caesar had dreamed of a universal monarchy of which
he should be king; he was murdered. That dream was also Antony's; he killed himself. Cato had
sought the restoration of the republic, and Brutus the attainment of virtue; both committed
suicide. Under the empire dreamers fared ill. Tiberius was a dreamer.

In a palace where a curious conception of the love of Atalanta and Meleager was said to figure
on the walls, there was a door on which was a sign, imitated from one that overhung the Theban
library of Osymandias--Pharmacy of the Soul. It was there Tiberius dreamed.

On the ivory shelves were the philtres of Parthenius, labelled De Amatoriis Affectionibus,
the Sybaris of Clitonymus, the Erotopaegnia of Laevius, the maxims and instructions of Elephantis,
the nine books of Sappho. There also were the pathetic adventures of Odatis and Zariadres,
which Chares of Mitylene had given to the world; the astonishing tales of that early Cinderella,
Rhodopis; and with them those romances of Ionian nights by Aristides of Milet, which Crassus
took with him when he set out to subdue the Parthians, and which; found in the booty, were
read aloud to the people that they might judge the morals of a nation that pretended to rule
the world.

Whether such medicaments are serviceable to the soul is problematic. Tiberius had other drugs
on the ivory shelves--magic preparations that transported him to fabulous fields. There was
a work by Hecataesus, with which he could visit Hyperborea, that land where happiness was a
birthright, inalienable at that; yet a happiness so sweet that it must have been cloying; for
the people who enjoyed it, and with it the appanage of limitless life, killed themselves from
sheer ennui. Theopompus disclosed to him a stranger vista--a continent beyond the ocean--one
where there were immense cities, and where two rivers flowed--the River of Pleasure and the
River of Pain. There was a deep Schmerzenston and also a sigh of relief and Entbuerdung. And
then came the blood gushing from a wound, a broken actions a desperate indulgence, a naked
confession of what they have always been for Caesar sinned and suffered from it.

Don Alfonso learned nothing new. But Angela, whose presence in the superiority of Lucretia forgot
about her feelings for anything or stayed, changed color and endured for the all other horror
of the violence and all the agony of shame.

Now embraced Lucretia, niederstuerzend before the Duke, his knees, seized his hands and covered
it with kisses. "I am the Maria Magdalena," she sobbed. "My Lord has me forgiven, and now is
not a particle of my being more, not his own would be ... I have life forfeited, stepping over
your bid, but you give it to me!

And now it may not mine, but it should be is yours! ...

Lord, "she said suddenly with a flattering gesture," I have a concern
to you.

"

The Duke thought they wanted him to speak of Strozzi and frowned.

"Permit me," she asked, "that I wear from now on Bussguertel!"

Don Alfonso smiled. "I expected a different suggestion," he said.

"And what?" she asked.

"For your language, Madonna," replied the duke, "for a culprit who
has his head put at risk and it has lost.

"

"Whom do you mean?" Lucretia asked, honestly puzzled.

Herkules Strozzi had slipped her mind entirely, since he was by the death of her brother became
expendable and was indifferent, and the Duke felt the satisfaction
that the Roemer proud head is not in the memory of his wife, still
less exemplary in her heart, yes, that Strozzi was impossible ever
to have had the lowest value for Lucretia.

It was true he gracious, so strict he usually was to punish every disobedience. He considered his wife,
whom he now owned as a secured property, with a kind of emotion. Still He had never seen her
more beautiful.

The gold hair that has broken during their passionate commitment curled, be spent to complete their
shoulders, and the soft blue eyes fiery.

He raised one of her blonde hair snakes to his lips and kissed it with fervor. Then said he, as
the man of order, it was:

"Rest a little before the meal, Duchess, and call your women to dress you. Because if you are so, I'll
be on the light and air that surround you, jealous. "

Angela trembled with indignation, that Lucretia incredible selfishness in their accomplice forgot, and in their
inner grief she accused that they, too, their unfortunate blind forget
in his dungeon.

It was an unjust accusation that she made herself, as she pressed, metaphorically speaking,
her forehead, and their thoughts without ceasing and to pain the
Eisenstaebe his prison window.

When she candlelight next to the Duchess was sitting on Spaetmahl, they overpower this Jammergefuehl,
and since they Lucretia food, which they presented to the Duke tenderly, and cost him the red
Neapolitan, sipping it first saw proffer, it seemed to her as Lucretia drink human blood.
"Base" she whispered to her, "You forget the forfeited head?"

Lucretia
was terrified and remembered. The Duke's shoulder with the delicate
fingers touching she asked casually, "you give me the Strozzi, Alfonso?"

The
Duke, who was kneading bread very soft a little weaponry, threw it
away, leaned back in his chair and pondered a little. Then he said:
"Lady, I Strozzi to justly can not be jealous, and his adoration of
your person is a debt that he all men share, so I can only be disobedience
against my express command to punishment .-- In the other pan is your
word, Madonna, and the unusual Fachtuechtigkeit of the man.

In truth,
I am reluctant to clear it away from a world which so much vermin
useless and trivial people nourished.

Considers the case, my Kluge.
It is impossible to pardon the people, without I judge him beforehand.
I teach him but, I can not justify, such a wicked disobedience to
forgive my first magistrate. But one thing I can - forget it. Send
for him, Duchess, today! at once! "He called a servant and gave him
the command. "Speak to him, Lucretia, Prove it, Bring him to Ferrara
that he made before the next! Sun disappear. Caligula was haunted by the intangible.
His sleep was a communion with Nature, with whom he believed himself one. At times the Ocean
talked to him; at others the Earth had secrets which it wished to tell. Again there was some
matter of moment which he must mention to the day, and he would wander out in the vast galleries
of the palace and invoke the Dawn, bidding it come and listen to his speech. The day was deaf,
but there was the moon, and he prayed her to descend and share his couch. Luna declined to
be the mistress of a mortal; to seduce her Caligula determined to become a god.

Nothing was easier. An emperor had but to open his veins, and in an hour he was a divinity.
But the divinity which Caligula desired was not of that kind. He wished to be a god, not on
Olympus alone, but on earth as well. He wished to be a palpable, tangible, living god; one
that mortals could see, which was more, he knew, than could be said of the others. The mere
wish was sufficient--Rome fell at his feet. The patent of divinity was in the genuflections
of a nation. At once he had a temple, priests and flamens. Inexhaustible Greece was sacked
again. The statues of her gods, disembarked at Rome, were decapitated, and on them the head
of Caius shone.

Heretofore his dress had not been Roman, nor, for that matter, the dress of a man. On his wrists
were bracelets; about his shoulders was a mantle sewn with gems; beneath was a tunic, and on
his feet were the high white slippers that women wore. But when the god came the costume changed.
One day he was Apollo, the nimbus on his curls, the Graces at his side; the next he was Mercury,
wings at his heels, the caduceus in his hand; again he was Venus. But it was as Jupiter Latialis,
armed with the thunderbolt and decorated with a great gold beard, that he appeared at his best.

The role was very real to him. After the fashion of Olympians he became frankly incestuous,
seducing vestals, his sisters too, and gaining in boldness with each metamorphosis, he menaced
the Capitoline Jove. "Prove your power," he cried to him, "or fear my own!" He thundered at
him with machine-made thunder, with lightning that flashed from a pan. "Kill me," he shouted,
"or I will kill you!" Jove, unmoved, must have moved his assailant, for presently Caligula
lowered his voice, whispered in the old god's ear, questioned him, meditated on his answer,
grew perplexed, violent again, and threatened to send him home.

These interviews humanized him. He forgot the moon and mingled with men, inviting them to die.
The invitation being invariably accepted, he became a connoisseur in death, an artist in blood,
a ruler to whom cruelty was not merely an aid to government but an individual pleasure, and
therewith such a perfect lover, such a charming host!

"Dear heart," he murmured to his mistress Pryallis, as she lay one night in his arms, "I think
I will have you tortured that you may tell me why I love you so." But of that the girl saw
no need. She either knew the reason or invented one, for presently he added: "And to think
that I have but a sign to make and that beautiful head of yours is off!" Musings of this description
were so humorous that one evening he explained to guests whom he had startled with his laughter,
that it was amusing to reflect how easily he could have all of them killed.

But even to a god life is not an unmixed delight. Caligula had his troubles. About him there
had settled a disturbing quiet. Rome was hushed, the world was very still. There was not so
much as an earthquake. The reign of Augustus had been marked by the defeat of Varus. Under
Tiberius a falling amphitheatre had killed a multitude. Caligula felt that through sheer felicity
his own reign might be forgot. A famine, a pest, an absolute defeat, a terrific conflagration--any
prodigious calamity that should sweep millions away and stamp his own memory immutably on the
chronicles of time, how desirable it were! But there was nothing. The crops had never been
more abundant; apart from the arenas and the prisons, the health of the empire was excellent;
on the frontiers not so much as the rumor of an insurrection could be heard, and Nero was yet
to come.

Perplexed, Caligula reflected, and presently from Baiae to Puzzoli, over the waters of the
bay, he galloped on horseback, the cuirass of Alexander glittering on his breast. The intervening
miles had been spanned by a bridge of ships and on them a road had been built, one of those
roads for which the Romans were famous, a road like the Appian Way, in earth and stone, bordered
by inns, by pink arcades, green retreats, forest reaches, the murmur of trickling streams.
So many ships were anchored there that through the unrepleted granaries the fear of famine
stalked. Caligula, meanwhile, his guests behind him, made cavalry charges across the sea, or
in a circus-chariot held the ribbons, while four white horses, maddened by swaying lights,
bore him to the other shore. At night the entire coast was illuminated; the bridge was one
great festival, brilliant but brief. Caligula had wearied of it all. At a signal the multitude
of guests he had assembled there were tossed into the sea.

By way of a souvenir, Tiberius, whom he murdered, had left him the immensity of his treasure.
"I must be economical or Caesar," Caligula reflected, and tipped a coachman a million, rained
on the people a hail of coin, bathed in essences, set before his guests loaves of silver, gold
omelettes, sausages of gems; sailed to the hum of harps on a ship that had porticoes, gardens,
baths, bowers, spangled sails and a jewelled prow; removed a mountain, and put a palace where
it had been; filled in a valley and erected a temple on the top; supplied a horse with a marble
home, with ivory stalls, with furniture and slaves; contemplated making him consul; made him
a host instead, one that in his own equine name invited the fashion of Rome to sup with Incitatus.

In one year Tiberius' legacy, a sum that amounted to four hundred million of our money, was
spent. Caligula had achieved the impossible; he was a bankrupt god, an emperor without a copper.
But the very splendor of that triumph demanded a climax. If Caligula hesitated, no one knew
it. On the morrow the palace of the Caesars was turned into a lupanar, a little larger, a little
handsomer than the others, but still a brothel, one of which the inmates were matrons of Rome
and the keeper Jupiter Latialis.

After that, seemingly, there was nothing save apotheosis. But Caligula, in the nick of time,
remembered the ocean. At the head of an army he crossed Gaul, attacked it, and returned refreshed.
Decidedly he had not exhausted everything yet. He recalled Tiberius' policy, and abruptly the
world was filled again with accusers and accused. Gold poured in on him, the earth paid him
tribute. In a vast hall he danced naked on the wealth of nations. Once more he was rich, richer
than ever; there were still illusions to be looted, other dreams to be pierced; yet, even as
he mused, conspirators were abroad. He loosed his pretorians. "Had Rome but one head!" he muttered.
"Let them FEEL themselves die," he cried to his officers. "Let me be hated, but let me be feared."

One day, as he was returning from the theatre, the dagger did its usual work. Rome had lost
a genius; in his place there came an ass.

There is a verse in Greek to the effect that the blessed have children in three months. Livia
and Augustus were blessed in this pleasant fashion. Three months after their marriage a child
was born--a miracle which surprised no one aware of their previous intimacy. The child became
a man, and the father of Claud, an imbecile whom the pretorians, after Caligula's death, found
in a closet, shaking with fright, and whom for their own protection they made emperor in his stead.

Caligula had been frankly adored; there was in him an originality, and with it a grandeur and
a mad magnificence that enthralled. Then, too, he was young, and at his hours what the French
call charmeur. If at times he frightened, always he dazzled. Of course he was adored; the prodigal
emperors always were; so were their successors, the wicked popes. Man was still too near to
nature to be aware of shame, and infantile enough to care to be surprised. In that was Caligula's
charm; he petted his people and surprised them too. Claud wearied. Between them they assimilate
every contradiction, and in their incoherences explain that incomprehensible chaos which was
Rome. Caligula jeered at everybody; everybody jeered at Claud.

The latter was a fantastic, vacillating, abstracted, cowardly tyrant, issuing edicts in regard
to the proper tarring of barrels, and rendering absurd decrees; declaring himself to be of
the opinion of those who were right; falling asleep on the bench, and on awakening announcing
that he gave judgment in favor of those whose reasons were the best; slapped in the face by
an irritable plaintiff; held down by main force when he wanted to leave; inviting to supper
those whom he had killed before breakfast; answering the mournful salute of the gladiators
with a grotesque Avete vos--"Be it well too with you," a response, parenthetically, which the
gladiators construed as a pardon and refused to fight; dowering the alphabet with three new
letters which lasted no longer than he did; asserting that he would give centennial games as
often as he saw fit; an emperor whom no one obeyed, whose eunuchs ruled in his stead, whose
lackeys dispensed exiles, death, consulates and crucifixions; whose valets insulted the senate,
insulted Rome, insulted the sovereign that ruled the world, whose people shared his consort's
couch; a slipshod drunkard in a tattered gown--such was the imbecile that succeeded Caligula
and had Messalina for wife. 

Soon put the young, protesting in the black garb of Venice dressed man's hand on the heart,
sometimes he looked at the still figure in the sunken Lukrezias how
to turn it to remember forever.

"As for you, Go, Bembo," she said, "and I do not think that your order be fulfilled, what I
asked you, without saying so. You go, and how long will it be before
You forget me!"

"Donna Lucrezia," said the Venetians moved, "how long I'll remember you and love you, truly, this is
hidden from me, because I do not know my days are done."

He said it with such a sad tenderness in his voice that stirred the Duchess replied: "To have
my memory in you, you shall take some of me with you, my friend," and she waved a slim, dark
Maedchengestalt that at the forest edge and down step, take good care to the mistress of herself,
or to the unwelcome approach of a witness to tell.

"Sit next to me, Angela," she said, "and I cut a lock of hair from
the head!"

She opened her Gurttaeschchen, drew out a small, sharp knife with a golden handle and offered it
to Angela, who, running the command, robbed her of an abundance flooding
Locke.

The princess was looking for a shell to enter the ring down, but found nothing but tape pockets in
the same one in gold and pressed leather-bound edition of the seven Penitential Psalms, a
popular Handbuechlein the then Hofwelt.

They also freely laid her in her curls and gave the pledge of love Bembo. This put it to his
chest, then to her lips and thanked for the sweet core of tart shell with a soulful expression,
through which a faint, ironic smile crept.

"I write," she said then, "through safe opportunity, every time your guesses that I am threatened danger
and I need your council. Tarry for me, even in the distance, I know
you do not forsake after your me have helped to erect the building of my
new happiness in Ferrara.

" "It was a joy," said Bembo, "to see build your
wise hands. Your work is impeccable and hard to shake. Rome governed unarmed, or perhaps it might be more exact to say she did not govern
at all; she was the mistress of a federation of realms and republics that governed themselves,
in whose government she was content, and from whom she exacted little, tribute merely, and
obeisance to herself. Her strength was not in the sword; the lioness roared rarely, often slept;
it was the fear smaller beasts had of her awakening that made them docile; once aroused those
indolent paws could do terrible work, and it was well not to excite them. When the Jews threatened
to revolt, Agrippa warned them: "Look at Rome; look at her well; her arms are invisible, her
troops are afar; she rules, not by them, but by the certainty of her power. If you rebel, the
invisible sword will flash, and what can you do against Rome armed, when Rome unarmed frightens
the world?"

The argument was pertinent and suggestive, but the secret of Rome's ascendency consisted in
the fact that where she conquered she dwelt. Wherever the eagles pounced, Rome multiplied herself
in miniature. In the army was the nation, in the legion the city. Where it camped, presto!
a judgment seat and an altar. On the morrow there was a forum; in a week there were paved avenues;
in a fortnight, temples, porticoes; in a month you felt yourself at home. Rome built with a
magic that startled as surely as the glint of her sword. Time and again the nations whom Caesar
encountered planned to eliminate his camp. When they reached it the camp had vanished; in its
place was a walled, impregnable town.

As the standards lowered before that town, the pomoerium was traced. Within it the veteran
found a home, without it a wife; and the family established, the legion that had conquered
the soil with the sword, subsisted on it with the plow. Presently there were priests there,
aqueducts, baths, theatres and games, all the marvel of imperial elegance and vice. When the
aborigine wandered that way, his seduction was swift.

The enemy that submitted became a subject, not a slave. Rome commanded only the free. If his
goods were taxed, his goods remained his own, his personal liberty untrammelled. His land had
become part of a new province, it is true, but provided he did not interest himself in such
matters as peace and war, not only was he free to manage his own affairs, but that land, were
it at the uttermost end of the earth, might, in recompense of his fidelity, come to be regarded
as within the Italian territory; as such, sacred, inviolate, free from taxes, and he a citizen
of Rome, senator even, emperor!

Conquest once solidified, the rest was easy. Tattered furs were replaced by the tunic and uncouth
idioms by the niceties of Latin speech. I do not know him. If a God crucified? ... I know only by the by
the church to heaven elevated Koenig, of the jobs created by the theology second God of the Trinity.
Being of the sky! Our Earth!