LOUIS AGASSIZ.

ILLUSTRATIVE EXTRACTS ON HIS METHOD OF INSTRUCTION

WITH AN INTRODUCTORY NOTE

BY

LANE COOPER

PROFESSOR OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE IN CORNELL UNIVERSITY.

  The beauty of his better self lives on
  In minds he touched with fire, in many an eye
  He trained to Truth's exact severity;
  He was a Teacher: why be grieved for him
  Whose living word still stimulates the air?
  In endless file shall loving scholars come
  The glow of his transmitted touch to share.

--Lowell, Agassiz.

PREFACE

If it be asked why a teacher of English should be moved to issue this book on Agassiz, my reply
might be: 'Read the Introductory Note'-for the answer is there. But doubtless the primary reason
is that I have been taught, and I try to teach others, after a method in essence identical
with that employed by the great naturalist. And I might go on to show in some detail that a
doctoral investigation in the humanities, when the subject is well chosen, serves the same
purpose in the education of a student of language and literature as the independent, intensive
study of a living or a fossil animal, when prescribed by Agassiz to a beginner in natural science.
But there is no need to elaborate the point. Of those who are likely to examine the book, some
already know the underlying truth involved, others will grasp it when it is first presented
to them (and for these my slight and pleasant labors are designed), and the rest will find
a stumbling-block and foolishness--save for the entertainment to be had in the reading of biography.

I have naturally kept in mind the needs of my own students, past and present, yet I believe
these pages may be useful to students of natural science as well as to those who concern themselves
with the humanities. We live in an age of narrow specialization--at all events in America.
Agassiz was a specialist, but not a 'narrow' one. His example should therefore be salutary
to those persons, on the one hand, who think that a man can have general culture without knowing
some one thing from the bottom up, and, on the other, to those who immerse themselves and their
pupils blindly in special investigation, without thought of the prima philosophia that gives
life and meaning to all particular knowledge. There can be no doubt that science and scholarship
in this country are suffering from a lack of sympathy and contact between the devotees of the
several branches, and for want of definite efforts to bridge the gaps between various disciplines
wherever this is possible. It may not often be possible until men of science generally again
take up the study of Plato and Aristotle, or at least busy themselves, as did Agassiz, with
some comprehensive modern philosopher like Schelling. But it should not be very hard for those
who are engaged in the biological sciences and those who are given to literary pursuits to
realize that they are alike interested in the manifestations of one and the same thing, the
principle of life. In Agassiz himself the vitality of his studies and the vitality of the man
are easily identified.

In conclusion I must thank the publishers, Houghton Mifflin Company, for the use of selections
from the copyright books of Mrs. Agassiz and Professor Shaler; these and all other obligations
are, I trust, indicated in the proper places by footnotes. I owe a special debt of gratitude
to Professor Burt G. Wilder for his interest and help throughout.

LANE COOPER

CORNELL UNIVERSITY,

April 7, 1917.

CONTENTS

I.    INTRODUCTORY NOTE

II. The awe with which everyone will look, taste that all you hear, makes looks
funny, but it is not. But it is, and no doubt it is. I, for example, I heard from a man very
rich all over rude and dirty beads referring the farmhands of my land, and that not even the lure
of novelty for me or should have for anyone, and yet I laughed like a fool, I have done very
much, and I have found attic full in the mouth of the Lord. I also believe that indeed they were, because
I did not move to reírlos or celebrate with false laughter, or by interest. Security superiority,
quiet magnetism that having money brings, produced this phenomenon.

Not surprising, then, that the rich are loved and admired. On the day of love more disinterested
than before. Never, for example, fewer men have been held by women at this time, the exception under
the legal form, though awkward, the coburguismo. In other ages it was common, almost universal,
and not bad watched the illegitimate coburguismo male, from Cyrus the Younger to Epiaxa, Queen
of Cilicia, woman is to believe and buxom, that hero who drew a lot of money, to the gallant knights
of the court of Louis XIV and Louis XV.

What is the female coburguismo, legitimate or illegitimate, is still at an early age as the world
from Raab and Delilah to the graceful and elegant Cora. This is more excusable coburguismo than the male.
Lope de Vega he apologized saying

      
    There was fierce poor Lucretia That, to
    give Don Tarquin thousand reais She was softer and less silly.

And Ariosto, with the caption precious dog, inserted in Orlando, I apologize more. I do not
apologize, but I apologize, but not only by the selfless love and
admiration sincere infuses the rich man, and not a beast, even in
the choicest souls and nobles.

The rich man then makes a great connoisseur of fine arts and literature,
and protects, mimicking Lorenzo the Magnificent and Maecenas, and
beautifies your home decorating with superb monuments, as Herodes
Atticus, and does, finally, a hundred thousand other benefits. Most persons do not, in fact, discern the close, though not obvious,
relation between investigation in biology or zoology and the observation and comparison of
those organic forms which we call forms of literature and works of art. Yet the notion that
a poem or a speech should possess the organic structure, as it were, of a living creature is
basic in the thought of the great literary critics of all time. So Aristotle, a zoologist as
well as a systematic student of literature, compares the essential structure of a tragedy to
the form of an animal. And so Plato, in the Phaedrus, makes Socrates say: 'At any rate, you
will allow that every discourse ought to be a living creature, having a body of its own, and
a head and feet; there should be a middle, beginning, and end, adapted to one another and to
the whole.' It would seem that to Plato an oration represents an organic idea in the mind of
the human creator, the orator, just as a living animal represents a constructive idea in the
mind of God. Now it happens that Agassiz, considered in his philosophical relations, was a
Platonist, since he clearly believed that the forms of nature expressed the eternal ideas of
a divine intelligence.

Accordingly, his method of teaching cannot fail to be illuminating to the teacher of literature--or
to the teacher of language, either, since each language as a whole, and also the component
parts of language, words, for instance, are living and growing forms, and must be studied as
organisms. We have perhaps heard too much of 'laboratory' methods in the teaching of English
and the like; but none of us has heard too much about the fundamental operations of observation
and comparison in the study of living forms, or of the way in which great teachers have developed
the original powers of the student. It is simply the fact that, reduced to the simplest terms,
there is but a single method of investigating the objects of natural science and the productions
of human genius. We study a poem, the work of man's art, in the same way that Agassiz made
Shaler study a fish, the work of God's art; the object in either case is to discover the relation
between form or structure and function or essential effect. It was no chance utterance of Agassiz
when he said that a year or two of natural history, studied as he understood it, would give
the best kind of training for any other sort of mental work.

The following passages will illustrate Agassiz's ideals and practice in teaching, the emphasis
being laid upon his dealings with special students. A few biographical details are introduced
in order to round out our conception of the personality of the teacher himself. Toward the
close, certain of his opinions are given in his own words.

I would call special attention to an extract from Boeckh's Encyclopadie, and another from the
Symposium of Plato, on pp. 69-74, and to the similarity between the method of study there enjoined
upon the student of the humanities, or indeed of all art and nature, and the method imposed
by Agassiz upon the would-be entomologist who was compelled first of all to observe a fish.
In reforming the mind it is well to begin by contemplating some structure we never have seen
before, concerning which we have no, or the fewest possible, preconceptions.

II

AGASSIZ AT NEUCHATEL

[Footnote: From E. C. Agassiz, Louis Agassiz, his Life and Correspondence, pp. 206 ff. Boston,
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1885.]

[In the autumn of the year 1832] Agassiz assumed the duties of his professorship at Neuchatel.
His opening lecture, upon the relations between the different branches of natural history and
the then prevailing tendencies of all the sciences, was given on the 12th of November ... at
the Hotel de Ville. Judged by the impression made upon the listeners as recorded at the time,
this introductory discourse must have been characterized by the same broad spirit of generalization
which marked Agassiz's later teaching. Facts in his hands fell into their orderly relation
as parts of a connected whole, and were never presented merely as special or isolated phenomena.
From the beginning his success as an instructor was undoubted. He had, indeed, now entered
upon the occupation which was to be from youth to old age the delight of his life. Teaching
was a passion with him, and his power over his pupils might be measured by his own enthusiasm.
He was intellectually, as well as socially, a democrat, in the best sense. He delighted to
scatter broadcast the highest results of thought and research, and to adapt them even to the
youngest and most uninformed minds. In his later American travels he would talk of glacial
phenomena to the driver of a country stagecoach among the mountains, or to some workman, splitting
rock at the road-side, with as much earnestness as if he had been discussing problems with
a brother geologist; he would take the common fisherman into his scientific confidence, telling
him the intimate secrets of fish-structure or fish-embryology, till the man in his turn became
enthusiastic, and began to pour out information from the stores of his own rough and untaught
habits of observation. Agassiz's general faith in the susceptibility of the popular intelligence,
however untrained, to the highest truths of nature, was contagious, and he created or developed
that in which he believed....

Beside his classes at the gymnasium, Agassiz collected about him, by invitation, a small audience
of friends and neighbors, to whom he lectured during the winter on botany, on zoology, on the
philosophy of nature. The instruction was of the most familiar and informal character, and
was continued in later years for his own children and the children of his friends. In the latter
case the subjects were chiefly geology and geography in connection with botany, and in favorable
weather the lessons were usually given in the open air.... From some high ground affording
a wide panoramic view Agassiz would explain to them the formation of lakes, islands, rivers,
springs, water -sheds, hills, and valleys....

When it was impossible to give the lessons out of doors, the children were gathered around
a large table, where each one had before him or her the specimens of the day, sometimes stones
and fossils, sometimes flowers, fruits, or dried plants. To each child in succession was explained
separately what had first been told to all collectively.... The children took their own share
in the instruction, and were themselves made to point out and describe that which had just
been explained to them. They took home their collections, and as a preparation for the next
lesson were often called upon to classify and describe some unusual specimen by their own unaided
efforts.

III

AGASSIZ AT HARVARD

[Footnote: From E. C. Agassiz, Louis Agassiz, his Life and Correspondence, pp. 564 ff. Boston,
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1885.]

On his return to Cambridge at the end of September [1859], Agassiz found the Museum building
well advanced. It was completed in the course of the next year, and the dedication took place
on the 13th of November, 1860. The transfer of the collections to their new and safe abode
was made as rapidly as possible, and the work of developing the institution under these more
favorable conditions moved steadily on. The lecture-rooms were at once opened, not only to
students, but to other persons not connected with the University. Especially welcome were teachers
of schools, for whom admittance was free. It was a great pleasure to Agassiz thus to renew
and strengthen his connection with the teachers of the State, with whom, from the time of his
arrival in this country, he had held most cordial relations, attending the Teachers' Institutes,
visiting the normal schools, and associating himself actively, as far as he could, with the
interests of public education in Massachusetts. From this time forward his college lectures
were open to women as well as to men. He had great sympathy with the desire of women for larger
and more various fields of study and work, and a certain number of women have always been employed
as assistants at the Museum.

The story of the next three years was one of unceasing but seemingly uneventful work. The daylight
hours from nine or ten o'clock in the morning were spent, with the exception of the hour devoted
to the school, at the Museum, not only in personal researches and in lecturing, but in organizing,
distributing, and superintending the work of the laboratories, all of which was directed by
him. Passing from bench to bench, from table to table, with a suggestion here, a kindly but
scrutinizing glance there, he made his sympathetic presence felt by the whole establishment.
No man ever exercised a more genial personal influence over his students and assistants.

His initiatory steps in teaching special students of natural history were not a little discouraging.
Observation and comparison being in his opinion the intellectual tools most indispensable to
the naturalist, his first lesson was one in looking. He gave no assistance; he simply left
his student with the specimen, telling him to use his eyes diligently, and report upon what
he saw. He returned from time to time to inquire after the beginner's progress, but he never
asked him a leading question, never pointed out a single feature of the structure, never prompted
an inference or a conclusion. This process lasted sometimes for days, the professor requiring
the pupil not only to distinguish the various parts of the animal, but to detect also the relation
of these details to more general typical features. His students still retain amusing reminiscences
of their despair when thus confronted with their single specimen; no aid to be had from outside
until they had wrung from it the secret of its structure. But all of them have recognized the
fact that this one lesson in looking, which forced them to such careful scrutiny of the object
before them, influenced all their subsequent habits of observation, whatever field they might
choose for their special subject of study....

But if Agassiz, in order to develop independence and accuracy of observation, threw his students
on their own resources at first, there was never a more generous teacher in the end than he.
All his intellectual capital was thrown open to his pupils. His original material, his unpublished
investigations, his most precious specimens, his drawings and illustrations were at their command.
This liberality led in itself to a serviceable training, for he taught them to use with respect
the valuable, often unique, objects entrusted to their care. Out of the intellectual good-fellowship
which he established and encouraged in the laboratory grew the warmest relations between his
students and himself. Many of them were deeply attached to him, and he was extremely dependent
upon their sympathy and affection. By some among them he will never be forgotten. He is still
their teacher and their friend, scarcely more absent from their work now than when the glow
of his enthusiasm made itself felt in his personal presence.

IV

HOW AGASSIZ TAUGHT PROFESSOR SHALER

[Footnote: From The Autobiography of Nathaniel Southgate Shaler, pp. 93-100. Boston, Houghton
Mifflin Company, 1907.]

At the time of my secession from the humanities, Agassiz was in Europe; he did not return,
I think, until the autumn of 1859. I had, however, picked up several acquaintances among his
pupils, learned what they were about, and gained some notion of his methods. After about a
month he returned, and I had my first contact with the man who was to have the most influence
on my life of any of the teachers to whom I am indebted. I shall never forget even the lesser
incidents of this meeting, for this great master by his presence gave an importance to his
surroundings, so that the room where you met him, and the furniture, stayed with the memory
of him. When I first met Louis Agassiz, he was still in the prime of his admirable manhood;
though he was then fifty-two years old, and had passed his constructive period, he still had
the look of a young man. His face was the most genial and engaging that I had ever seen, and
his manner captivated me altogether. But as I had been among men who had a free swing, and
for a year among people who seemed to me to be cold and super-rational, hungry as I doubtless
was for human sympathy, Agassiz's welcome went to my heart--I was at once his captive. It has
been my good chance to see many men of engaging presence and ways, but I have never known his
equal.

As the personal quality of Agassiz was the greatest of his powers, and as my life was greatly
influenced by my immediate and enduring affection for him, I am tempted to set forth some incidents
which show that my swift devotion to my new-found master was not due to the accidents of the
situation, or to any boyish fancy. I will content myself with one of those stories, which will
of itself show how easily he captivated men, even those of the ruder sort. Some years after
we came together, when indeed I was formally his assistant,--I believe it was in 1866,--he
became much interested in the task of comparing the skeletons of thoroughbred horses with those
of common stock. I had at his request tried, but without success, to obtain the bones of certain
famous stallions from my acquaintances among the racing men in Kentucky. Early one morning
there was a fire, supposed to be incendiary, in the stables in the Beacon Park track, a mile
from the College, in which a number of horses had been killed, and many badly scorched. I had
just returned from the place, where I had left a mob of irate owners and jockeys in a violent
state of mind, intent on finding some one to hang. I had seen the chance of getting a valuable
lot of stallions for the Museum, but it was evident that the time was most inopportune for
suggesting such a disposition of the remains. Had I done so, the results would have been, to
say the least, unpleasant.

As I came away from the profane lot of horsemen gathered about the rums of their fortunes or
their hopes, I met Agassiz almost running to seize the chance of specimens. I told him to come
back with me, that we must wait until the mob had spent its rage; but he kept on. I told him
further that he risked spoiling his good chance, and finally that he would have his head punched;
but he trotted on. I went with him, in the hope that I might protect him from the consequences
of his curiosity. When we reached the spot, there came about a marvel; in a moment he had all
those raging men at his command. He went at once to work with the horses which had been hurt,
but were savable. His intense sympathy with the creatures, his knowledge of the remedies to
be applied, his immediate appropriation of the whole situation, of which he was at once the
master, made those rude folk at once his friends. Nobody asked who he was, for the good reason
that he was heart and soul of them. When the task of helping was done, then Agassiz skilfully
came to the point of his business--the skeletons--and this so dexterously and sympathetically,
that the men were, it seemed, ready to turn over the living as well as the dead beasts for
his service. I have seen a lot of human doing, much of it critically as actor or near observer,
but this was in many ways the greatest. The supreme art of it was in the use of a perfectly
spontaneous and most actually sympathetic motive to gain an end. With others, this state of
mind would lead to affectation; with him, it in no wise diminished the quality of the emotion.
He could measure the value of the motive, but do it without lessening its moral import.

As my account of Agassiz's quality should rest upon my experiences with him, I shall now go
on to tell how and to what effect he trained me. In that day there were no written examinations
on any subjects to which candidates for the Lawrence Scientific School had to pass. The professors
in charge of the several departments questioned the candidates, and determined their fitness
to pursue the course of study they desired to undertake. Few or none who had any semblance
of an education were denied admission to Agassiz's laboratory. At that time, the instructors
had, in addition to their meagre salaries--his was then $2,500 per annum,--the regular fees
paid in by the students under his charge. So I was promptly assured that I was admitted. Be
it said, however, that he did give me an effective oral examination, which, as he told me,
was intended to show whether I could expect to go forward to a degree at the end of four years
of study. On this matter of the degree he was obdurate, refusing to recommend some who had
been with him for many years, and had succeeded in their special work, giving as reason for
his denial that they were 'too ignorant.'

The examination Agassiz gave me was directed first to find that I knew enough Latin and Greek
to make use of those languages; that I could patter a little of them evidently pleased him.
He didn't care for those detestable rules for scanning. Then came German and French, which
were also approved: I could read both, and spoke the former fairly well. He did not probe me
in my weakest place, mathematics, for the good reason that, badly as I was off in that subject,
he was in a worse plight. Then asking me concerning my reading, he found that I had read the
Essay on Classification, and had noted in it the influence of Schelling's views. Most of his
questioning related to this field, and the more than fair beginning of our relations then made
was due to the fact that I had some enlargement on that side. So, too, he was pleased to find
that I had managed a lot of Latin, Greek, and German poetry, and had been trained with the
sword. He completed this inquiry by requiring that I bring my foils and masks for a bout. In
this test he did not fare well, for, though not untrained, he evidently knew more of the Schlager
than of the rapier. He was heavy-handed, and lacked finesse. This, with my previous experience,
led me to the conclusion that I had struck upon a kind of tutor in Cambridge not known in Kentucky.

While Agassiz questioned me carefully as to what I had read and what I had seen, he seemed
in this preliminary going over in no wise concerned to find what I knew about fossils, rocks,
animals, and plants; he put aside the offerings of my scanty lore. This offended me a bit,
as I recall, for the reason that I thought I knew, and for a self-taught lad really did know,
a good deal about such matters, especially as to the habits of insects, particularly spiders.
It seemed hard to be denied the chance to make my parade; but I afterward saw what this meant--that
he did not intend to let me begin my tasks by posing as a naturalist. The beginning was indeed
quite different, and, as will be seen, in a manner that quickly evaporated my conceit. It was
made and continued in a way I will now recount.

Agassiz's laboratory was then in a rather small two-storied building, looking much like a square
dwelling-house, which stood where the College Gymnasium now stands.... Agassiz had recently
moved into it from a shed on the marsh near Brighton bridge, the original tenants, the engineers,
having come to riches in the shape of the brick structure now known as the Lawrence Building.
In this primitive establishment Agassiz's laboratory, as distinguished from the storerooms
where the collections were crammed, occupied one room about thirty feet long and fifteen feet
wide--what is now the west room on the lower floor of the edifice. In this place, already packed,
I had assigned to me a small pine table with a rusty tin pan upon it....

When I sat me down before my tin pan, Agassiz brought me a small fish, placing it before me
with the rather stern requirement that I should study it, but should on no account talk to
any one concerning it, nor read anything relating to fishes, until I had his permission so
to do. To my inquiry, 'What shall I do?' he said in effect: 'Find out what you can without
damaging the specimen; when I think that you have done the work I will question you.' In the
course of an hour I thought I had compassed that fish; it was rather an unsavory object, giving
forth the stench of old alcohol, then loathsome to me, though in time I came to like it. Many
of the scales were loosened so that they fell off. It appeared to me to be a case for a summary
report, which I was anxious to make and get on to the next stage of the business. But Agassiz,
though always within call, concerned himself no further with me that day, nor the next, nor
for a week. At first, this neglect was distressing; but I saw that it was a game, for he was,
as I discerned rather than saw, covertly watching me. So I set my wits to work upon the thing,
and in the course of a hundred hours or so thought I had done much--a hundred times as much
as seemed possible at the start. I got interested in finding out how the scales went in series,
their shape, the form and placement of the teeth, etc. Finally, I felt full of the subject,
and probably expressed it in my bearing; as for words about it then, there were none from my
master except his cheery 'Good morning.' At length, on the seventh day, came the question,
'Well?' and my disgorge of learning to him as he sat on the edge of my table puffing his cigar.
At the end of the hour's telling, he swung off and away, saying: 'That is not right.' Here
I began to think that, after all, perhaps the rules for scanning Latin verse were not the worst
infliction in the world. Moreover, it was clear that he was playing a game with me to find
if I were capable of doing hard, continuous work without the support of a teacher, and this
stimulated me to labor. The glory is almost always late for this race of men. Few similar a loss to understand
his worth. So will his fame spreads and to accrue by authority, contested and often contradicted,
and so slowly and deliberately, the sage and The poet often die without the benefit of that
respect and even worship taxed later to his memory.

The same wise, and especially the poet, critic excellent as it is, may console themselves with
awareness and security of your worth, other men unknown or denied. Do not know fixed point
if the trial that are about themselves is distorted by self-love.

A work of genius is very difficult to judge, and the good reputation that must be acquired a few
subjects understood that manage to impose their opinion, sometimes after many years when not
centuries. The other men undergo this review out of laziness, or because having already dead
author of the work, they care little to be celebrated and praised. The idea that the reputation
of that author is in honor of the nation or humanity as a whole contributes to that contained
by certain selfishness, are few men to throw to destroy it. Moreover, the glory of the great
writers often posthumously and extremely vain. Of every thousand people mentioning, for example,
Homer as the first epic poet, ten at best, in civilized countries, I have read, and of these
ten, nine were bored or asleep reading to him: one was useful perhaps
of those beauties and excellences.

Poetry, then, in its highest sense and virtue in its highest sense, has only reward in itself,
in creating the ideal, the determination and debugging of beauty, which is low, mixed with foreign
elements and fleeting in the world and whom the poet away and subtracted
from the ugly, and gives immortal life, in order to enjoy her the
few souls who by his own beauty are able to understand.

Understood, however, that unless the sublime arch-mentioned exceptions, nothing is more false in
a sense that this honor and profit that do not fit in a bag. By contrast, when the public does
not honor it if not rich, and always enriched when honor. The more or less of enrichment depends
on the circumstances that have nothing to do with honor. In countries rich and prosperous, good
poet, the condition of his genius, is popular and famous, is also rich. And beyond the respect
due to him, Adam Smith was wrong to assume the comedians, singers and dancers, they earned a lot
of money in compensation of decorum they lost in their office, which, if more honest, more people
would be exercised by business, and this competition would lower the price. The above artists
are much better regarded in the day time of Adam Smith, not so many good, or sell cheap services.
They sell expensive, because there are few that are suitable for them, and because way to pay is
given to the shortage persists, load sharing among many people.

It follows from the above and still be clearer if I extend the size as requested the case that
the very nature of things, and without any one complaining about it, or do you blame a chapter
of our century, or the past, and now men, or of that time, the most universally respected,
loved and revered is money, and therefore, the one he owns. Even the same heavenly souls, pure
love of love, glory and all the good and holy love of money also
go as a means excellent success with other crushes those ethereal.

The average man loves money more than life. Any person, almost sympathetic that is, secure account
with a few friends who venture for her life, which would sacrifice his life. Many take the field
in a duel to the death to defend Tell a friend! Almost nobody, however,
would sacrifice his wealth by a friend, or the twenty or hundredth
of its volume.

In my own case, he questioned me closely as to what I had previously done and learned. He found
I had made collections of birds, mammals, plants, etc., and had mounted and identified them
for several years, and in that way was not a beginner exactly. I remember that before I had
been with him six months he told me I knew more zoology than most students did when they graduated.
Therefore my case was not like some others. He had an idea, of course, that though I had collected
and mounted birds, and knew their names and habits, I probably knew little about their anatomy.
At any rate the first thing he did was to give me a badly mutilated old loon, from old alcohol,
telling me to prepare the skeleton. This I did so well and so quickly that he expressed regret
that he had not given me some better bird with unbroken bones. He gave me next a blue heron,
but it being spring, I 'went collecting' in the vicinity, following my usual inclination, before
breakfast and after laboratory hours, and brought in a number of incubated birds'-eggs. When
Agassiz came into the laboratory, I was extracting and preserving the embryos, being interested
in embryology. He at once exclaimed that he was delighted, and told me to put aside the skeletons
and go right on with collecting and preparing embryo birds, and making drawings, etc. This
I did all that season, obtaining about 2,000 embryos, mostly of sea birds, for he sent me to
Grand Manan Island, etc., for that purpose. Before the end of the first year he gave me entire
charge of the birds and mammals in the Museum, as well as the coral collection, which was large
even then.

In the case of Hyatt, who went there just before I did, I think he was kept working over a
lot of mixed fish skeletons, more or less broken, to 'see what he could make of them.' A little
later he put Hyatt at work on the Unionidae, studying the anatomy as well as the shells. Within
two years he put him on the Ammonites, a big collection having been received from Europe at
that time. Hyatt, however, had never done anything in zoology or botany before he went to Agassiz
and he found it hard to get a beginning, and so lost time. I mention these cases to show how
different his methods were in different cases.

VI

HOW AGASSIZ TAUGHT PROFESSOR WILDER

[Footnote: From an article by Professor Burt G. Wilder, of Cornell University, in The Harvard
Graduates' Magazine, June, 1907. The extract is taken from a reprint with slight changes by
the author, and is given with slight omissions by the present writer.]

The phrase adopted as the title of this article ['Louis Agassiz, Teacher'] begins his simple
will, Agassiz was likewise an investigator, a director of research, and the founder of a great
museum. He really was four men in one. Without detracting from the extent and value of the
three other elements of his intense and composite American life-- from his first course of
lectures before the Lowell Institute in 1846 to the inauguration of the Anderson Summer School
of Natural History at Penikese Island, July 8, 1873, and his address before the Massachusetts
State Board of Agriculture, twelve days before his untimely death on December 14, 1873,--Agassiz
was pre-eminently a teacher. He taught his assistants; he taught the teachers in the public
schools; he taught college students; he taught the public, and the common people heard him
gladly. His unparalleled achievements as an instructor are thus chronicled by his wife:

'A teacher in the widest sense, he sought and found his pupils in every class. But in America
for the first time did he come into contact with the general mass of the people on this common
ground, and it influenced strongly his final resolve to remain in this country. Indeed the
secret of his greatest power was to be found in the sympathetic, human side of his character.
Out of his broad humanity grew the genial personal influence by which he awakened the enthusiasm
of his audiences for unwonted themes, inspired his students to disinterested services like
his own, delighted children in the school-room, and won the cordial interest, as well as the
co-operation in the higher aims of science, of all classes, whether rich or poor.'

As a general statement the foregoing could not be improved. But the invitation to prepare this
article contained a suggestion of particularity with which it is possible for me to comply.[Footnote:
Not only have I preserved all the letters from Agassiz, the first dated Sept. 4, 1866, and
the last Nov. 25, 1873, but also my diaries in which are recorded all significant incidents
and conversations from my first introduction in 1856 to the last interview, Sept. 5, 1873.
[Note by Professor Wilder.]] The courses given by Agassiz on zoology and geology were attended
by me during the three years (1859-62) of my pupilage with Jeffries Wyman, and the two years
(1866-68) in which I was the assistant of Agassiz himself. Naturally, and also for special
reasons, the deepest impression was made by the first and the last of these courses. With the
former the charm of novelty intensified the great, indeed indescribable, charm of the speaker.
No topic was to me so important as the general problem of animal life, and no expositor could
compare with Agassiz. As an outlet for my enthusiasm each discourse was repeated, to the best
of my ability, for the benefit of my companion, James Herbert Morse, '63, on the daily four-mile
walk between Cambridge and our Brookline home. So sure was I that all the statements of Agassiz
were correct and all his conclusions sound, that any doubts or criticisms upon the part of
my acute and unprejudiced friend shocked me as a reprehensible compound of heresy and lese-majesty.

The last course that I heard from Agassiz in Cambridge began on October 23, 1867, and closed
on January 11, 1868. It was memorable for him and for me. At the outset he announced that some
progress had been made in the University toward the adoption of an elective system for the
students, and that he proposed to apply the principle to his own instruction, and should devote
the entire course of twenty-one lectures to the Selachians (sharks and rays), a group in which
he had been deeply interested for many years, and upon which he was then preparing a volume.
This limitation to a favorite topic inspired him to unusual energy and eloquence. My notes
are quite full, but I now wish the lectures had been reported verbatim. This course was signalized
also by two special innovations, viz.: the exhibition of living fish, and the free use of museum
specimens. That, so far as possible, all biologic instruction should be objective was with
Agassiz an educational dogma, and upon several notable occasions its validity had been demonstrated
under very unfavorable conditions. Yet, during the five years of my attendance upon his lectures,
they were seldom illustrated otherwise than by his ready and graphic blackboard drawings. The
simple fact was that the intervals between his lectures were so crowded with multifarious,
pressing, and never-ending demands upon his time and strength that he could seldom determine
upon the precise subject long enough in advance for him, or any one else, to bring together
the desirable specimens or even charts. The second lecture of the course already mentioned
is characterized in my diary as 'splendid,' and as 'for the first time illustrated with many
specimens.' At one of the later lectures, after speaking about fifteen minutes, he invited
his hearers to examine living salmon embryos under his direction at one table, and living shark
embryos under mine at another.

Like those of Wyman, the courses given by Agassiz were Senior electives. I never heard of any
examination upon them; nor is it easy to imagine Agassiz as preparing a syllabus, or formulating
or correcting an examination-paper. His personality and the invariable attendance of teachers
and other adults precluded the necessity of disciplinary measures. But his attitude toward
student misconduct was clearly shown in an incident recorded by me elsewhere.[Footnote: 'Agassiz
at Penikese,' American Naturalist, March, 1898, p. 194. [Note by Professor Wilder.]] The method
pursued by Agassiz with his laboratory students has been described by Scudder.[Footnote: See
below, p. 40.] Although I was to prepare specimens at his personal expense, a somewhat similar
test was applied. He placed before me a dozen young 'acanths' (dog-fish sharks), telling me
to find out what I could about them. After three days he gave me other specimens, saying: 'When
you go back to the little sharks you will know more about them than if you kept on with them
now'--meaning, I suppose, that I should then have gained a better perspective.

Although, as I recall upon several occasions, Agassiz could express his views delightfully
and impressively to a single auditor, his eminently social nature and his lifelong habit rendered
it easier for him to address a group of interested listeners. The following incident does not
seem to have been recorded in my diary, but it is distinctly remembered. During the publication
of the Journey in Brazil, a French translation was made by M. Felix Vogeli. With this the publishers
desired to incorporate a chapter giving the latest views of Agassiz upon classification and
evolution. In vain was he besought to write it. He hated writing, and was too busy. At last,
in desperation, M. Vogeli came to the Museum with Mrs. Agassiz, and together they persuaded
the Professor to dictate the required matter in the form of a lecture. For this, however, an
audience was indispensable. The exigency was explained to the Museum staff; we assembled in
the lecture-room, and the discourse began. To the dismay of some of us it proved to be in French,
but we tried to look as if we comprehended it all.

Agassiz handled all specimens with the greatest care, and naturally had little patience with
clumsiness; the following incident illustrates both his kindly spirit and his self-restraint.
At one of the lectures he had handed down for inspection a very rare and costly fossil, from
the coal-measures, I think; including the matrix, it had about the size and shape of the palm
of the hand. He cautioned us not to drop it. When it had reached about the middle of the audience
a crash was heard. The precious thing had been dropped by a new and somewhat uncouth assistant
whom we will call Dr. X. He hastily gathered up the pieces and rushed out of the room. For
a few seconds Agassiz stood as if himself petrified; then, without even an 'Excuse me,' he
vanished by the same door. Presently he returned, flushed, gazing ruefully at the fragments
in his hand, covered with mucilage or liquid glue. After a pause, during which those who knew
him not awaited an explosive denunciation of gaucherie, Agassiz said quietly: 'In Natural History
it is not enough to know how to study specimens; it is also necessary to know how to handle
them'--and then proceeded with his lecture.

His helpful attitude toward prospective teachers was exhibited in the following incidents.
After my appointment to Cornell University in October, 1867, he arranged for me to give a course
of six 'University Lectures,' and warned me to prepare for them carefully, because he should
give me a 'raking down.' He attended them all (at what interruption of his own work I realize
better now), and discussed them and my methods very frankly with me. Omitting the commendations,
the following comments may be useful to other professorial tyros: 1. The main question or thesis
should be stated clearly and concisely at the outset, without compelling the hearer to perform
all the mental operations that have led the speaker to his own standpoint. 2. In dealing with
the history of a subject, the value of each successive contribution should be estimated in
the light of the knowledge at the period, not of that at the present time.

VII

HOW AGASSIZ TAUGHT PROFESSOR SCUDDER

[Footnote: 'In the Laboratory with Agassiz,' by Samuel H. Scudder, from Every Saturday (April
4, 1874) 16, 369-370.]

It was more than fifteen years ago [from 1874] that I entered the laboratory of Professor Agassiz,
and told him I had enrolled my name in the Scientific School as a student of natural history.
He asked me a few questions about my object in coming, my antecedents generally, the mode in
which I afterwards proposed to use the knowledge I might acquire, and, finally, whether I wished
to study any special branch. To the latter I replied that, while I wished to be well grounded
in all departments of zoology, I purposed to devote myself specially to insects.

'When do you wish to begin?' he asked.

'Now,' I replied.

This seemed to please him, and with an energetic 'Very well!' he reached from a shelf a huge
jar of specimens in yellow alcohol.

'Take this fish,' said he, 'and look at it; we call it a haemulon; by and by I will ask what
you have seen.'

With that he left me, but in a moment returned with explicit instructions as to the care of
the object entrusted to me.

'No man is fit to be a naturalist,' said he, 'who does not know how to take care of specimens.'

I was to keep the fish before me in a tin tray, and occasionally moisten the surface with alcohol
from the jar, always taking care to replace the stopper tightly. Those were not the days of
ground-glass stoppers and elegantly shaped exhibition jars; all the old students will recall
the huge neckless glass bottles with their leaky, wax -besmeared corks, half eaten by insects,
and begrimed with cellar dust. Entomology was a cleaner science than ichthyology, but the example
of the Professor, who had unhesitatingly plunged to the bottom of the jar to produce the fish,
was infectious; and though this alcohol had 'a very ancient and fishlike smell,' I really dared
not show any aversion within these sacred precincts, and treated the alcohol as though it were
pure water. Most of the men who appear to despise or neglect the money, made out of spite and envy,
mimic the fox, saying they are not mature. Those who love to sincerity poverty, those who believe
and call it holy gift ungrateful, or are crazy, or are saints are Diogenes or San Francisco
de Asis, unless certain that they understand poverty magnanimous virtue which consists in possessing
and enjoying all things with disdain and detachment, as if they were possessed or might enjoy.
 I dashed the
fluid over the fish as if to resuscitate the beast from a fainting -fit, and looked with anxiety
for a return of the normal sloppy appearance. This little excitement over, nothing was to be
done but to return to a steadfast gaze at my mute companion. Half an hour passed --an hour--another
hour; the fish began to look loathsome. I turned it over and around; looked it in the face--ghastly,
from behind, beneath, above, sideways, at a three-quarters' view--just as ghastly. I was in
despair; at an early hour I concluded that lunch was necessary; so, with infinite relief, the
fish was carefully replaced in the jar, and for an hour I was free.

On my return, I learned that Professor Agassiz had been at the Museum, but had gone, and would
not return for several hours. My fellow-students were too busy to be disturbed by continued
conversation. Slowly I drew forth that hideous fish, and with a feeling of desperation again
looked at it. I might not use a magnifying-glass; instruments of all kinds were interdicted.
My two hands, my two eyes, and the fish: it seemed a most limited field. I pushed my finger
down its throat to feel how sharp the teeth were. I began to count the scales in the different
rows, until I was convinced that that was nonsense. At last a happy thought struck me --I would
draw the fish; and now with surprise I began to discover new features in the creature. Just
then the Professor returned.

'That is right,' said he; 'a pencil is one of the best of eyes. I am glad to notice, too, that
you keep your specimen wet, and your bottle corked.'

With these encouraging words, he added:

'Well, what is it like?'

He listened attentively to my brief rehearsal of the structure of parts whose names were still
unknown to me: the fringed gill-arches and movable operculum; the pores of the head, fleshy
lips and lidless eyes; the lateral line, the spinous fins and forked tail; the compressed and
arched body. When I had finished, he waited as if expecting more, and then, with an air of
disappointment:

'You have not looked very carefully; why,' he continued more earnestly,' you haven't even seen
one of the most conspicuous features of the animal, which is as plainly before your eyes as
the fish itself; look again, look again!' and he left me to my misery.

I was piqued; I was mortified. Still more of that wretched fish! But now I set myself to my
task with a will, and discovered one new thing after another, until I saw how just the Professor's
criticism had been. The afternoon passed quickly; and when, toward its close, the Professor
inquired:

'Do you see it yet?'

'No,' I replied, 'I am certain I do not, but I see how little I saw before.'

'That is next best,' said he, earnestly, 'but I won't hear you now; put away your fish and
go home; perhaps you will be ready with a better answer in the morning. There is no doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was
named a fraction Manila lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who
spoke the same language. This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples
Pasig, therefore, some ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation
of the word as a contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but this is not possible, because
if so there would be missing the point t, and even if this had happened, it could not have been
as pronounced tagalog in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of the word with
similar origins.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composite of alog which means "ford" where Tagalog mean
"men or people of the ford." Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical to
accept that from the root alog, in Pangasinan, means "land low water is full of rain ", precisely
because the indigenous people to the arrival of Tagalog called the Spanish in the Manila region,
inhabited, as now, land and low-lying. Probably in those days were called alog those lands,
and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the mountains
taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain"). In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by
the name of taga-Doong, so people also called of the plain. Doong
means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats.

"

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.

I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed
between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys. Undoubtedly wanted
once say 'mountain', and that meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there
is still Malay. Looking for references to this voice, I found the
following in the vocabulary of Br

The fourth day, a second fish of the same group was placed beside the first, and I was bidden
to point out the resemblances and differences between the two; another and another followed,
until the entire family lay before me, and a whole legion of jars covered the table and surrounding
shelves; the odor had become a pleasant perfume; and even now, the sight of an old, six-inch,
worm-eaten cork brings fragrant memories.

The whole group of haemulons was thus brought in review; and, whether engaged upon the dissection
of the internal organs, the preparation and examination of the bony frame-work, or the description
of the various parts, Agassiz's training in the method of observing facts and their orderly
arrangement was ever accompanied by the urgent exhortation not to be content with them.

'Facts are stupid things,' he would say, 'until brought into connection with some general law.'

At the end of eight months, it was almost with reluctance that I left these friends and turned
to insects; but what I had gained by this outside experience has been of greater value than
years of later investigation in my favorite groups.

[Footnote: Professor Edward S. Morse writes: 'As I remember Mr. Scudder's article, ... he has
stated clearly the method of Agassiz's teaching--simply to let the student study intimately
one object at a time. Day after day he would come to your table and ask you what you had learned,
and thus keep you at it for a week. My first object put before me was a common clam, Mya arenaria.']

VIII

THE DEATH OF AGASSIZ--HIS PERSONALITY

[Footnote: The materials for this sketch are drawn from several sources--chiefly the Life by
Marcou (which I have used with some caution) and the Life by Mrs. Agassiz. I had wished to
preserve the words of Marcou throughout (with judicious omissions), but this wish was defeated
by certain persons who, for reasons unknown to me, have the power to prevent the use of adequate
quotations from him. I have followed him where I had no other guide, and no ground for suspecting
him of bias. The composition, and to some extent the interpretation of the facts, are my own.]

In later years the robust constitution and herculean frame of Agassiz showed the effects of
his extraordinary and multifarious labors, for it must be confessed that he was not careful
of his bodily welfare. In the year 1869 he suffered a temporary breakdown of a very threatening
sort, and for months was in seclusion, forbidden by his medical advisers even to think. His
own wise efforts, and a quiet spring passed in the village of Deerfield, Connecticut, brought
about his recovery, so that three years of activity were yet to be vouchsafed him. But the
strain of his lectures, of his correspondence, of his labors at and for the Museum, was perilous.
On the second of December, 1873, he gave a lecture, his last, on 'The Structural Growth of
Domestic Animals,' before the Massachusetts Board of Agriculture at Fitchburg. On the third
he dined with friends; on the fifth he was present at a family gathering--and smoked cigars,
defying the orders of his physician. But the end was not far off. He spoke of a dimness of
sight; he complained of feeling 'strangely asleep.' On the morning of the sixth he went as
usual to the Museum, but with a sense of great weariness he shortly returned to his room, where
he lay down, never to depart from it alive. The disease was a paralysis of the organs of respiration,
beginning with the larynx. He had every care from his friends Dr. Brown-Sequard, who immediately
came from New York, and Dr. Morrill Wyman; and the last few days of his life were passed, not
in great suffering, with his loving family around him. Nothing, however, could arrest the progress
of the malady.

Agassiz, it is said, had been afraid of softening of the brain, and of a long and painful illness
like that which preceded the death of his friend Professor Bache; it had been his hope that
he might rather go quickly. Yet it was not easy for him to think of dying, when his imagination
teemed with projects, and when the two main visions of his life were on the point of being
fully accomplished, in the great Museum and the Anderson School of Natural History on the island
of Penikese. Stricken though he was, he clung to life, nor did he give up all hope of recovery
until the last day. Still there was a change of demeanor, for the aims of his career as a scientist
were now less obtrusive in his mind than thoughts of his family. And with the arrival of Dr.
Brown -Sequard he resumed the language of his youth, so that his last words were uttered in
French. In the closing hours, when at length all hope was abandoned, he was more than once
heard to say: 'Tout est fini.' On the eighth day, when death itself was approaching, his family
and friends--among these, Pourtales--withdrew to an adjoining room, keeping watch over the
patient through the open door. While Pourtales was standing there in his turn, not long after
ten o'clock at night, Agassiz lifted himself up in bed, and said with emphasis: 'Le jeu est
fini.' Then, sinking back, he passed away.

'The play is done. Plaudite.' For Agassiz life was a game, full of motion, crowded with incident.
He could not understand the complaint of those who found time hanging heavily upon their hands,
and who sought ways of killing it. He, who had 'no time for making money,' would gladly have
borrowed an extra life or two for study and teaching. From the outset he had unwavering confidence
in himself. He would be 'the first naturalist of his time, a good citizen, a good son, beloved
of those who knew him.' He was not to follow others; he would lead in his own path, which should
be the right path, and others should follow him.

Agassiz was somewhat above the average in height. His body was well formed, his shoulders broad
and square, his figure powerful, firmly set upon rather small feet that served him well in
walking and climbing. With a quick, elastic step, he was an excellent pedestrian, and quite
at home in the mountains. As a boy he became proficient in swimming and in the management of
boats. To bodily fear he was a stranger. His hands were large and shapely, and very skilful.
Never a finished draughtsman, he was none the less expert in representing, with swift, sure
strokes, the essential structure of the object he wished to recall or explain. He was deft,
too, with the dissecting-knife and the microscope, and with the geologist's hammer. His neck
(the weak part, as his fatal illness showed) was rather short; his head was fine and large.
In later years his hair, of a chestnut color, deserted his brow, but he wore it full at the
sides and back, and this, with the side-whiskers of the day, tended to conceal his ears. The
head itself was admirable, the forehead high and broad, the chin shapely, the countenance frank
and open. The mouth was wide, the lips full and smiling, the expression as a whole altogether
amiable and intelligent. His aquiline nose, with well-developed nostrils, sharply set off by
the oblique lines on either side, helped to give him an air of sagacity. But it was the magnificent,
fascinating eyes, young, kindly, and searching, that above all gave life to that animated countenance.
To those eyes nothing was commonplace. [Footnote: Compare Clara Conant Gilson, 'Agassiz at
Cambridge,' in Frank Leslie's Popular Monthly, December, 1891: 'He was a man of fine figure
and striking appearance, not too much of the embonpoint, not too tall, but just tall enough
to constitute a finely developed physique. His head was grand, of perfect intellectual shape,
and commanded your admiration as you gazed. He was but slightly bald, his hair was of a beautiful
brown, soft and fine, and fell lovingly over the collar of his coat. His face was of well-rounded
contour, with a large, expressive mouth, and features indicative of great character and decision.
His eyes were the feature of his face, par excellence. They were of a beautiful bright brown,
full of tenderness, of meaning and earnestness--a liquid brown eye, that would moisten with
tears of emotion as thoughts of his Creator came rushing to mind, while he traced His footsteps
in the sciences he studied. His eyes mirrored his soul. I think there was never but one pair
of eyes such as Professor Louis Agassiz's.']

Agassiz spoke French with a slight drawl characteristic of the section of Switzerland in which
he was born. When he came to America in 1846, he rapidly acquired a command of English, and
he eventually wrote and spoke the language with great facility, though his speech never ceased
to betray his foreign origin. [Footnote: See Clara Conant Gilson, in the article just cited:
He had a few striking peculiarities of pronunciation, one or two of which cling to me with
great pertinacity even now. One, in particular, is fresh in my memory. For example, the words
respiratory and perspiratory he would accent on the third syllable--rat; and, bless me, if
to this day I don't have to think twice before I am sure which is right! This shows what indelible
impressions his words left upon his pupils.]

With his superabundant physical, mental, and emotional energy, he was a natural orator; he
was fond of an audience, and gratified by applause. No one ever possessed a greater talent
for making natural science popular; even when his discourse became highly technical, his auditors
hung upon his words. His method of exposition was very clear and simple. He studiously avoided
the error of dragging the listener through all the processes by which the speaker has arrived
at a particular truth, and quickly came to the point. In lecturing, his personal magnetism
counted for much; he readily communicated his enthusiasm to others.

He was easily moved to tears or to laughter. In his earlier life he was seldom angry, or seldom
showed it, but otherwise made no attempt to hide his feelings, being a perfect child of nature.
Later he became less demonstrative, save when he was angry. In the last twenty years of his
life he not infrequently lost his temper, though he would not utterly forget what he was saying;
and, however heated the discussion might become, he never ceased to be a gentleman. Neither
indecency nor aught approaching thereto ever issued from his lips. As a youth in Switzerland,
during his life as a student, and even when he was a teacher at Neuchatel, he was fond of singing,
and he liked to yodel after the fashion of the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, but he gave
this up when he came to America.

Here his recreations were mostly social. He was the friend of Longfellow, Lowell, and Whittier;
he was the friend of laborers and fishermen. In society he liked to encounter men of wealth
and influence, for he had by nature, and also learned from Alexander von Humboldt, some of
the arts of the courtier. 'It would be difficult,' says Dr. Charles D. Walcott, [Footnote:
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 50. 217 (1908).] 'to measure his influence in the way
of causing men of political and commercial power to realize that the support of scientific
research, and the diffusion of knowledge thereby gained, depend largely on them.' In other
natural scientists he was prone to discover too much self-satisfaction, and too much personal
curiosity, against which he hardly knew how to protect himself. But with the group of younger
scientists he himself developed, though now and then one or another grew mutinous, he was,
during most of the time, on the best of terms. His own early schooling in the classics gave
him a relish for scholars, and he was pleased with the company of historians and lawyers. For
military men he did not care, but he liked naval officers and sea-captains. He paid little
attention to matters of dress, certainly as regards his own person. He was gratified by the
marks of distinction conferred upon him at home and abroad, but took little subsequent thought
of the ribbons, badges, and diplomas, keeping them, but not very carefully, and never making
a parade of them.

Eloquent as a lecturer, he was also brilliant and persuasive in conversation, being, in appearance
at least, quite unreserved, and open in his attempt to capture the good will of his auditor.
However, if there was no covert artifice, there was at all events the native shrewdness of
the Swiss peasant to reckon with, and doubtless the subtlety of genius--which will not, or
cannot, always reveal itself in full. In his later years, accordingly, though his winning manners
and his desire that you should completely display your thought to him might lead you to suppose
him utterly open with you, you might in the end discover that you had not fathomed his soul,
that there was that in him which could not be taken captive, and that there might be a silent
invincible rejection on his part of something within you which was foreign to him.

In Agassiz the theoretical and the practical life were well balanced. He was both a visionary
and a man capable of bringing his visions to pass. No philosophical conception was too general
for him, and no detail of observation or inference too small. No fact could appear too slight
for his intense and comprehensive scrutiny, and his memory for minute resemblances and differences
was vast; yet the enduring quality of his work arose from his sense of order, and from the
soundness and rigor of his principles. He possessed not only physical, but intellectual and
moral courage. In the face of hardship or difficulty he was undaunted, ever energetic at the
moment, ever hoping for better times. His power of working was enormous, for he made virtually
no false motions, but proceeded silently, swiftly, with no apparent effort, and for long periods
without interruption.

Much has been said by his friends of the depth and sincerity of his sentiments in point of
religion. But he had little sympathy with clergymen, or with the definite forms in which the
religious experience of man has expressed itself--though these forms are in their essence and
development not unlike the natural forms which he so reverently studied. One who knew him well
affirms that in early manhood Agassiz, if not precisely a materialist, was at all events a
sceptic; but his later studies, with mature reflection, led him to believe in a Divine Creator.
The external universe became to him the language in which the Divine Being conveys his ideas
to man, and natural history the discipline by which men interpret that language. Thus he says,
in the Essay on Classification: 'To me it appears indisputable that this order and arrangement
of our studies are based upon the natural, primitive relations of animal life--those systems,
to which we have given the names of the great leaders of our science who first proposed them,
being in truth but translations into human language of the thoughts of the Creator. And if
this is indeed so, do we not find in this adaptability of the human intellect to the facts
of creation, by which we become instinctively, and, as I have said, unconsciously, the translators
of the thoughts of God, the most conclusive proof of our affinity with the Divine mind? And
is not this intellectual and spiritual connection with the Almighty worthy of our deepest consideration?
If there is any truth in the belief that man is made in the image of God, it is surely not
amiss for the philosopher to endeavor, by the study of his own mental operations, to approximate
the workings of the Divine Reason, learning from the nature of his own mind better to understand
the Infinite Intellect from which it is derived. Such a suggestion may, at first sight, appear
irreverent. But who is the truly humble? He who, penetrating into the secrets of creation,
arranges them under a formula, which he proudly calls his scientific system? or he who in the
same pursuit recognizes his glorious affinity with the Creator, and in deepest gratitude for
so sublime a birthright strives to be the faithful interpreter of that Divine Intellect with
whom he is permitted, nay, with whom he is intended, according to the laws of his being, to
enter into communion? [Footnote: Essay on Classification (1859), pp. 9-10.] Herein we may discern
the secret of his power as a teacher. Pp. 9, 10. Cambridge, 1897.]

IX

OBITER DICTA BY AGASSIZ

[Footnote: The first nine of these utterances were taken down by Dr. David Stair Jordan at
Penikese, in the summer of 1873, from Agassiz's talks to teachers; see Popular Science Monthly
40. It's a drowning man, is another burning alive a burning house,
and this is in honor of humanity, who seldom lack for saving ventures, be thrown into the raging
waves or flames. However, the saving hero perhaps a few days earlier had refused to give alms
to the real two-person saved now so generously. Conversely, the most graceful ever consider the
sacrifice that is made for them a small sum of money, that of life itself. And this for a
thousand reasons very fair. Life is sacrificed or exposed to anything, the money does not. No
ragamuffin not have a life exposed as any other life, but not everyone has money display or sacrifice.
The tightrope walker, the tamer of beasts, the bricklayer standing on a scaffold, the miner
who enters a mine unsafe, in short, almost all men risk their lives for anything, for a miserable
wage, for a paltry amount of money. What did Edgardo more by Lucia di Lammermoor, which became
more D. Suero de Quinones by the lady of your thoughts that he can do and makes every moment,
with less noise, the last lost, to earn a few pesetas? Therefore, a considerable amount of
pesetas worth more than the courage of Edgardo and the gallantry of D. Serum.

It is clear that the poor, but can love, can not express your love
so clearly and as bright as the rich.

 Those who have succeeded
best have followed for years some slim thread which has once in a while broadened out and disclosed
some treasure worth a life-long search.

A man cannot be a professor of zoology on one day, and of chemistry on the next, and do good
work in both. As in a concert all are musicians --one plays one instrument, and one another,
but none all in perfection.

You cannot do without one specialty; you must have some base-line to measure the work and attainments
of others. For a general view of the subject, study the history of the sciences. Broad knowledge
of all nature has been the possession of no naturalist except Humboldt, and general relations
constituted his specialty.

Select such subjects that your pupils cannot walk without seeing them. Train your pupils to
be observers, and have them provided with the specimens about which you speak. If you can find
nothing better, take a house-fly or a cricket, and let each hold a specimen and examine it
as you talk.

In 1847 I gave an address at Newton, Massachusetts, before a Teachers' Institute conducted
by Horace Mann. My subject was grasshoppers. I passed around a large jar of these insects,
and made every teacher take one and hold it while I was speaking. If any one dropped the insect,
I stopped till he picked it up. This was at that time a great innovation, and excited much
laughter and derision. There can be no true progress in the teaching of natural science until
such methods become general.

There is no part of the country where, in the summer, you cannot get a sufficient supply of
the best specimens. Teach your children to bring them in themselves. Take your text from the
brooks, not from the book -sellers. It is better to have a few forms well known than to teach
a little about many hundred species. Better a dozen specimens thoroughly studied as the result
of the first year's work, than to have two thousand dollars' worth of shells and corals bought
from a curiosity -shop. The dozen animals would be your own.

The study of nature is an intercourse with the highest mind. You should never trifle with nature.
At the lowest her works are the works of the highest powers--the highest something, in whatever
way we may look at it.

It is much more important for a naturalist to understand the structure of a few animals than
to command the whole field of scientific nomenclature.

Methods may determine the result.

The only true scientific system must be one in which the thought, the intellectual structure,
rises out of, and is based upon, facts.

He is lost, as an observer, who believes that he can, with impunity, affirm that for which
he can adduce no evidence.

Have the courage to say: 'I do not know.'

Since the ability of combining facts is a much rarer gift than that of discerning them, many
students lost sight of the unity of structural design in the multiplicity of structural detail.
[Footnote: Atlantic Monthly 33. 93.]

It cannot be too soon understood that science is one, and that whether we investigate language,
philosophy, theology, history, or physics, we are dealing with the same problem, culminating
in the knowledge of ourselves. Speech is known only in connection with the organs of man, thought
in connection with his brain, religion as the expression of his aspirations, history as the
record of his deeds, and physical sciences as the laws under which he lives. [Footnote: Atlantic
Monthly 33. 95.]

The most advanced Darwinians seem reluctant to acknowledge the intervention of an intellectual
power in the diversity which obtains in nature, under the plea that such an admission implies
distinct creative acts for every species. What of it, if it were true? Have those who object
to repeated acts of creation ever considered that no progress can be made in knowledge without
repeated acts of thinking? And what are thoughts but specific acts of the mind? Why should
it then be unscientific to infer that the facts of nature are the result of a similar process,
since there is no evidence of any other cause? The world has arisen in some way or other. How
it originated is the great question, and Darwin's theory, like all other attempts to explain
the origin of life, is thus far merely conjectural. At first it was very beautiful and had a hair magnificent,
but, having offended the goddess Minerva, it irritated her hair changed in frightening snakes.
(N. of E.)

[30] The relationship that follows we almost verbatim from a weekly
to be published in Havana in 1830, titled Fashion.

(N. A.)
[31] Juan Bautista Vermay (1784-1833), French painter who came to
Cuba to restore some pictures of the Cathedral of Havana.
[Footnote: Atlantic Monthly 33. 101.]

X

PASSAGES FOR COMPARISON WITH THE METHOD OF AGASSIZ

BOECKH ON THE STUDY OF HISTORY AND LITERATURE

[Footnote: August Boeckh; Encyclopadie und Methodobgie der Philologischen Wissenschaften, pp.
46-47.]

The person who first seeks to acquire a general survey of a science, and then gradually to
descend to details, will never attain to sound and exact knowledge, but will for ever dissipate
his energies, and, knowing many things, will yet know nothing. In his lectures on the Method
of Academical Study, Schelling remarks with great justice that, in history, to begin with a
survey of the entire past is in the highest degree useless and injurious, since it gives one
mere compartments for knowledge, without anything to fill them. In history, his advice is,
first study one period in detail, and from this broaden out in all directions. For the study
of language and literature (which corresponds with history in its most general sense) a similar
procedure is the only right one. (N. of E.)

[32] Christmas little girl, and many called the night of December 7, the day before the feast
of the Conception of the Holy Catholic Church, celebrated quite animation
by the people. Let the student
place himself where he will--so long as he selects something significant and worth while,--and
he will be compelled to broaden out from this point of departure in every direction in order
to reach a complete understanding of his subject. From each and every detail one is driven
to consider the whole; the only thing that matters is that one go to work in the right way,
with strength, intelligence, and avidity. Let one choose several different points of departure,
working through from each of them to the whole, and one will grasp the whole all the more surely,
and comprehend the wealth of detail all the more fully. Accordingly, by sinking deep into the
particular, one most easily avoids the danger of becoming narrow.

PASSAGES FOR COMPARISON

FROM THE SYMPOSIUM OF PLATO

