The distinction between the authority of the United States and that of the several States is
so clearly defined that there can be no possible excuse for ignorance on that subject on the
part of any officer of the army.  But the relation between the civil and the military authorities
of the United States had not been clearly defined, after the passage of the "Posse Comitatus
Act," until the order of May 25, 1894, was issued.  But that can hardly excuse continued ignorance
of the law a month or more after that order was issued; and it is worthy of note that at least
one department commander showed himself familiar with the law before the order was issued,
by correcting the mistake of a subordinate, which called attention to the necessity of issuing
some such order.

Of course that order had the sanction of the President, after consideration and approval by
the Attorney-General, before it was issued.

The acts of Congress creating the Pacific railroads and making them military roads justify
and require that the government give them military protection whenever, in the judgment of
the President, such protection is needed.  It is not incumbent on the commander- in-chief of
the army of the United States to call on civil courts and marshals to protect the military
roads over which he proposes to move his troops, whether on foot or on horseback or in cars.
It appears to have been almost forgotten that the transcontinental railroads were built, at
great expense to the national treasury, mainly as a military bond between the Atlantic States
and the Pacific States, and that this is by far their most important service, and this explains
the meaning of the language employed by the acts of Congress creating them.

At the time of the massacre of Chinese laborers at Rock Springs, Wyoming, during President
Cleveland's first administration, I was ordered by the President to go to that place from Chicago
and suppress that violation of the treaty obligations between this country and China.  On my
arrival at Omaha, I was informed by the press reporters that a grand conclave at Denver that
night was to consider a proposition to order out all the train-men on the Union Pacific Railroad
the next morning, for the purpose, as I understood, of preventing the passage of my train.
I told the reporters they might telegraph those people in Denver, but not for publication,
that I was traveling over a military road, on military duty, under orders from the commander-in-chief
of the army; that interference with that journey would be regarded by me as an act of war,
and would be so treated.  I heard no more on that subject.  That interpretation of the Pacific
Railroad acts was suggested several times, but never officially accepted until 1894.

                                                    ORDERS OF THE PRESIDENT

The following are in substance the orders sent on July 6 and 7, by the President's direction,
to all the department commanders in the country traversed by the Pacific railroads, and the
President's proclamation which followed two days later, under the operation of which traffic
was resumed throughout all that vast region of country as rapidly as trains carrying troops
could be moved.  No serious opposition or resistance was offered anywhere.

  "(Telegram.)
  "Headquarters of the Army, Washington, July 7, 1894.

  "(Telegram)
  "Headquarters of the Army, Washington, July 7, 1894.
"Brigadier-General Otis, Commanding Department of the Columbia,
 Vancouver Barracks, Washington:

"The order of the President sent you this morning by telegraph is the same in substance as
one sent last night to General Merritt, the purpose being to extend military protection over
the entire line of the Northern Pacific Railroad from St. Paul to Puget Sound. In the movement
of the troop-trains along the line of the road in the execution of this order, the Department
of Justice will furnish a sufficient force of marshals to make arrests and hold prisoners subject
to the orders of the United States courts.  You will please concert with General Merritt by
direct correspondence the necessary exchanges of guards upon moving trains at the military
posts in your department and in his, nearest to each other, so that the troops may return to
their proper stations without unnecessary delay.

  "J. M. Schofield, Major-General Commanding."

"By the President of the United States of America. "A Proclamation.

In my opinion, the most important of all the lessons taught by the Civil War is the necessity
of using in the most effective manner the means at the disposal of the government when war
breaks out. In the english days of us had reminiscent question, and the villagers used to rook
us frightfully early it. "you retrieve that when i got pipped in France in'15, while they sent me
out next time as Salonica. I hadn't has been only there long before exchange is cropped up.
I remember sending my batman, MacGusgogh, to a place for eggs, and as he came back with the change for my
Bradbury in nickel." i know quite as the tract about exchange, "he
remarked with the smile.  It is said that this weak
policy was due largely to General Scott, and grew out of his distrust of volunteer troops;
he having thought it necessary to have a considerable body of regular troops to give steadiness
and confidence to the volunteers or militia.  This is a very good theory, no doubt, providing
the regulars could be provided in advance in such numbers as to produce the desired effect.
But if that theory had been relied upon in 1861, the "Confederate States" would have established
their independence long before the regular army could be organized and made effective.  What
was demanded by the necessities of the country in 1861 was the best large army that could be
made in the shortest possible time, not a better small army to be made in a much longer time.

The United States government actually had in hand the means of creating in a very short time
a far larger efficient army than the South could possibly have raised in the same time.  This
means had been provided, with great care and at great expense, through a long term of years,
by the education of young men at the Military Academy, and their practical training in the
small regular army in all kinds of actual service, including one foreign war and almost constant
campaigns against the Indians.  Nowhere in the world could have been found a better corps of
officers to organize, instruct, and discipline new troops.  Yet those officers were hardly
employed at all in that service at first, when it was of supreme importance. Some time later,
when the necessity was not so great, a few officers of the army were permitted to accept commands
in the volunteers. Even then it often required great "influence" to secure such "indulgences."
Scores of young officers, qualified in every way to do such service in the first six months
of the war, sought in vain for opportunities to render the valuable services for which the
government had educated them, and were compelled to drag along four years in the discharge
of duties several grades below their qualifications.

                                            WEAKNESS OF THE MILITARY POLICY

In the regular army in 1861 there were, exclusive of those who went South, at least 600 officers
who, after graduating at West Point, had served several years with their regiments, and were
well qualified to drill a regiment and command it in battle.  A large proportion of them were
fitted to command brigades, and some of them divisions, and even army corps.  The three years'
volunteers first called out could have been fully supplied with brigade, division, and corps
commanders from graduates of West Point who were thoroughly qualified by theoretical education
and established character, and many of them by practical experience in the Mexican war and
Indian campaigns, for the instruction, discipline, and command of troops, still leaving a sufficient
number with the regulars for efficient service.  The old sergeants of the army in 1861 were
relatively competent company commanders.  One commissioned officer to four companies of these
veteran Indian-fighters made as reliable a battalion as any general could wish for in the conditions
then existing.

Experience demonstrated that a volunteer regiment could in a very few weeks be converted into
an efficient and thoroughly reliable force in battle by a single young officer of the regular
army.  In other words, by a judicious use of the small body of officers whom the country had
educated at so great an expense, a fine army of 500,000 men, or more, could have been called
into service, organizied, disciplined, and put into the field by August 1, 1861; and that without
interfering in any way with the three months' militia called out to meet the first emergency,
which militia ought, of course, to have acted strictly on the defensive until the more permanent
force could take the field.  In a few months more, certainly by the spring of 1862, the instruction,
discipline, and field experience of the first levy would have given good officers enough to
organize and command a million more men.  It required, in short, only a wise use of the national
resources to overwhelm the South before the spring of 1863.

The supply of arms, it is true, was deplorably deficient in 1861. But the South was only a
little better off than the North in that regard.  Besides, the National Government had command
of all the markets of the world, and of the means of ocean transportation. It could have bought
at once all the available arms everywhere, and thus fully equipped its own troops, while preventing
the South from doing the same.  Hence the excuse given at the time--namely, want of muskets--was
no excuse whatever for delay in the organization of armies.

The rebellion made some progress at first, and offered effective resistance for a long time,
simply because the Southern authorities manifested greater military wisdom than the Northern.
The difference in preparations and in military training in advance was quite insignificant.
The North had many more educated and competent military men than the South.  The difference
was that the South used the few they had to the best advantage, while the North so used only
a very few of their many.

The lesson next in importance taught by our experience is the necessity of general military
education in a country having popular government.  No man can be fully qualified for the duties
of a statesman until he has made a thorough study of the science of war in its broadest sense.
He need not go to a military school, much less serve in the army or in the militia.  But unless
he makes himself thoroughly acquainted with the methods and conditions requisite to success
in war, he is liable to do almost infinite damage to his country.  For instance, the very first
success of the Union armies--the capture of Fort Donelson--was quickly followed by a proclamation
of thanksgiving and an order to stop recruiting. That one act of "statesmanship" cost the country
untold millions of dollars and many thousands of lives.  It was necessary only to take the
ordinary military advantage of the popular enthusiasm throughout the country after Grant's
first victory to have made the Union armies absolutely irresistible by any force the South
could raise and arm at that time.

                            A POOR USE OF THE EDUCATED SOLDIERS OF THE ARMY

