About seven o'clock one blistering hot morning--for it was now dead summer time--Higbie and
I took the boat and started on a voyage of discovery to the two islands.  We had often longed
to do this, but had been deterred by the fear of storms; for they were frequent, and severe
enough to capsize an ordinary row-boat like ours without great difficulty--and once capsized,
death would ensue in spite of the bravest swimming, for that venomous water would eat a man's
eyes out like fire, and burn him out inside, too, if he shipped a sea.  It was called twelve
miles, straight out to the islands--a long pull and a warm one--but the morning was so quiet
and sunny, and the lake so smooth and glassy and dead, that we could not resist the temptation.
So we filled two large tin canteens with water (since we were not acquainted with the locality
of the spring said to exist on the large island), and started. 

On the afternoon of that day we returned to Mexico and all the way, I could not distract from
my mind the incident that had impressed me so much. Upon reaching the city, sent say masses
for the soul of this "old master", who was denied Christian burial, but found it poetry, sheltered
by mangrove and palms, near the spout of the "Garden of the Sultana."

It was a few months. One day I said to Antonio:

- You know I've written to San Javier, which this year ordered Herrera
Goya painted black?

- Man, do not do that!

Take care.

- Hello! Are you superstitious?

Three days later, the society of Mexico was dismayed to learn that
the rebel hordes had entered the bag in the main hacienda of Sandoval
Hernández, who had set heat to ingenuity, and blown up with dynamite
the old building.

       

San Javier, and it was just a huge pile of rubble.

THE CHEST

JESUS ​​REYES FERREIRA

The flickering flames, the fire in the fireplace gave off, did a fantastic range, on the walls of
the room, the shadow of the old Don Alejandro.

He huddled in a chair wide near the home, tried to warm your body, numb, not so much by bad weather
at that time was, the punishment for years and weighed about him. But despite its proximity to
the fire, felt cold.

Many nights spent long hours in the same spot, staring at the red light! Sometimes the forms
assumed burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings
real, and so became that home on stage, in which often represented
the grim drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother
saw his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen
and withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture.

On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only being loved, and next, standing contemplábala
a severe man, almost revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious,
thus embittered his character more and more.

When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain, saw how they turned
out the existence of the author of his life. The doctor indicated that no further action ...
Came the priest, but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty,
the words:

- The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques. Among them, in a corner of
the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with brass nails and rivets. This
was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended to, but the key had been found
and the secret if it was secret, has been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner of the room, and trembled to see
that the hood was open. The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated
mechanism of a lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making
a supreme effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense of terror, he went to the
chest. At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a yellow rectangle lying
on the bottom. Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the
object.

It was an envelope, stained over time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw
that the cover trunk had fallen into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope,
but their hands were so trembling, unable to verify. After a few moments,
he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with eyes of terror,
extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and
had to rely on the chair to keep from falling to the ground. Set of
New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly the dreadful scene of his
death mother. Stunned, looked the old man around furtively, afraid
of being observed, and decided make an effort to read the statement,
but the paper ran away from his trembling hands and fell the flames
that consumed it voraciously.

Don Alejandro looked toward the corner
where there was a closed casket and even closer to chimney, but, despite
its proximity to the fire was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend
and I, of indifferent and trivial. The sun about to disappear, cast
light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming through
the open window seemed to spread throughout the room. We were drenched by the sprays constantly, and the boat occasionally shipped water.
By and by, powerful as my comrade was, his great exertions began to tell on him, and he was
anxious that I should change places with him till he could rest a little.  But I told him this
was impossible; for if the steering oar were dropped a moment while we changed, the boat would
slue around into the trough of the sea, capsize, and in less than five minutes we would have
a hundred gallons of soap-suds in us and be eaten up so quickly that we could not even be present
at our own inquest. What could he do there? ... Repugnábanle these diversions, where their presence a stranger
seemed to cause some discomfort among the peasants. These people preferred be alone. Was he
dancing with a atlota at his age and appearance who instilled grumpy respect and coolness? ... Would
have to stay with Pep and other, breathing in the smell of snuff of drinking, talking about
the kernel and the fear of being helase, striving to bring down his thoughts the level of these people.

At
last he decided to go to town.

I was afraid of being alone. Before passing only the rest of afternoon, he preferred the slow
and monotonous conversations of people simple conversation refreshing, as he said, that forced
him to reflect and let in fresh your thinking quiet animal.

Near San Jose saw the Spanish flag floating above the roof of the hall, and reached their hearing
thuds of the drum patch, the bucolic chirping flute and peal of castañolas.

The ball was opposite the church. Young people formed groups, standing near the musicians, occupied
by low saddles. The drummer, with his round instrument lying on one knee, beat rhythmically patch,
while his companion was blowing in the long wooden flute, adorned with carvings of primitive rudeness
made knife. The Chaplain rang the castañolas, enormous as the shells on the beach grabbed the guy
Guster.

The atlotas, clutching the waist or shoulders supported each other, looked virtuous hostility
to the waiters, who strutted in the center of the square, his hands in the belt, the width
beaver pushed back to expose the curls of her forehead, neck wrapped in embroidered handkerchief
or tie ribbons, and the immaculate white sandals almost hidden by
the mouth of corduroy pants in the form of elephant foot.  A neighbor of ours hid six cans of rifle powder in the bake-oven of an old
discarded cooking stove which stood on the open ground near a frame out-house or shed, and
from and after that day never thought of it again.  We hired a half-tamed Indian to do some
washing for us, and he took up quarters under the shed with his tub.  The ancient stove reposed
within six feet of him, and before his face.  Finally it occurred to him that hot water would
be better than cold, and he went out and fired up under that forgotten powder magazine and
set on a kettle of water.  Then he returned to his tub. With the utmost caution, I a
thick stick used to accompany me on my travels, and holding his breath and going steps, has dealt
a tremendous blow on the left wing, that sounded dry and mournful against the iron railing. The
bird fell to the street and I, for one, did not dare peek, fearing that a passerby was witness
to my nefarious action. A shiver ran down my body, I felt guilty and ashamed, as it must feel
like the Ancient Mariner in the poem when killed the albatross with his crossbow.

At last I looked. Or the bird lay in the almost deserted street and noticed traces of blood
on the railing of the window. Soon I had all that for a hallucination and I was puzzled. Would it
be a prelude to madness?

       

* * * * *

I could not find in the Archive of Protocols in Alcalá del Río Duke documents Ayamonte needed, and the
manager of that office told me that maybe they would act in the the Cathedral. Equipped with
a cover letter to the Dean, I went to the famous building and from the moment I entered it, I completely
forgot about the mission I had been there. Of Presbytery of the choir, and chapel to chapel, I was
visiting the temple and admire the many their beauty. As always happens
in historical sites, several guidelines are offered to accompany me,
but I refused them all, wanting to enjoy themselves so much work of
art.  There was a shaft sixty or seventy feet deep on the under side of the croppings,
and everybody was acquainted with the rock that came from it--and tolerably rich rock it was,
too, but nothing extraordinary. Why do case? Should
go back to bed ... There was a long pause, as if the enemy, to hear crujimientos the mattress,
it is expected that the inhabitant of the tower was out of a time to another. But it was some
time, and the hoarse voice and offensive was played again in the quiet night. I called him coward
again, invited to leave the Spaniard. "Go, son of ...

Febrer, to this insult, trembled, keeping the gun in his belt.

