The Kimball brothers, Warren and Frank, who came from New Hampshire twenty-five years ago and
devoted their energies to planting orchards of oranges, lemons, and olives, have made the desert
bloom, and found the business most profitable. You will like to watch the processes of pickling
olives and pressing out the clear amber oil, which is now used by consumptives in preference
to the cod-liver oil. Many are rubbed with it daily for increasing flesh. It is delicious for
the table, but the profits are small, as cotton-seed oil is much cheaper. Lemons pay better
than oranges, Mr. Kimball tells me. Mrs. Flora Kimball has worked side by side with her husband,
who is an enthusiast for the rights of woman. She is progressive, and ready to help in every
good work, with great executive ability and a hearty appreciation of any good quality in others.

It does not pay to take the trip to Mexico if time is limited, there is so little of Mexico
in it. After leaving the train and getting into an omnibus, the voluble darkey in charge soon
shouts out, "We are now crossing the line," but as no difference of scene is observed, it is
not deeply impressive. One young fellow got out and jumped back and forth over the line, so
that if asked on his return if he had been to Mexico he could conscientiously answer, "Oh yes,
many times." We were then taken to the custom-house, where we mailed some hastily scribbled
letters for the sake of using a Mexican stamp,--some preferred it stamped on a handkerchief.
And near by is the curio store, where you find the same things which are seen everywhere, and
where you will doubtless buy a lot of stuff and be sorry for it. But whatever other folly you
may be led into, let me implore you to wholly abstain from that deadly concoction, the Mexican
tamale. Ugh! I can taste mine now.

A tamale is a curious and dubious combination of chicken hash, meal, olives, red pepper, and
I know not what, enclosed in a corn-husk, steamed until furiously hot, and then offered for
sale by Mexicans in such a sweet, appealing way that few can resist the novelty. It has a more
uncertain pedigree than the sausage, and its effects are serious.

A friend of mine tasted a small portion of one late at night. It was later before she could
sleep, and then terrible nightmares intruded upon her slumber. Next morning she looked so ill
and enfeebled, so unlike her rosy self, that we begged to know the cause. The tale was thrilling.
She thought a civil war had broken out and she could not telegraph to her distant spouse. The
agony was intense. She must go to him with her five children, and at once. They climbed mountains,
tumbled into cañons, were arrested in their progress by cataracts and wild storms, and even
the hostile Indian appeared in full war-paint at a point above. This awoke her, only to fall
into another horrible situation. An old lover suddenly returned, tried to approach her; she
screamed, "I am now a married woman!"--he lifted his revolver, and once again she returned
to consciousness and the tamale, and brandy, and Brown's Jamaica ginger. If she had eaten half
the tamale the pistol would doubtless have completed its deadly work. A kind old gentleman
of our party bought a dozen to treat us all. We were obliged to refuse, and it was amusing
to watch him in his endeavor to get rid of them. At last he made several journeys to the car
door, throwing out a few each trip in a solemn way. He didn't want to hurt the feelings of
the natives by casting them all out at once.

Sweet Water Dam is a triumph of engineering, one of the largest dams in the world, holding
six million gallons of water, used for irrigating ranches in Sweet Water Valley; and at La
Jolla you will find pretty shells and clamber down to the caves. There the stones are slippery,
and an absorbing flirtation should be resisted, as the tide often intrudes most unexpectedly,
and in dangerous haste. Besides the caves the attractions are the fishing and the kelp beds.
These kelp beds form a submarine garden, and the water is so clear that one can see beautiful
plants, fish, etc., at forty or fifty feet below the sea surface--not unlike the famous sea-gardens
at Nassau in the Bahamas. There is a good hotel, open the year round.

Lakeside is a quiet inland retreat twenty-two miles from San Diego, where many go for a little
excursion and change of air. The Lakeside Hotel has seventy large rooms and complete appointments.
The table is supplied with plenty of milk and real cream from their own cows, vegetables and
fruit from the neighboring ranches, game in its season, shot on the lake near by, and, in the
valleys, meats from homegrown stock. The guests who are not too invalidish often go out for
long drives, never forgetting the lunch-baskets. One day we try the Alpine stage. Winding across
the mesa at the rear of the hotel, we have a lovely view of the little lake half hidden in
the trees, reflecting in its quiet surface the mountains that rise up beyond it. Gradually
climbing upward, we come to a tract of land that is watered by the Flume. To our surprise we
learn that this is practically frostless, and that since this has been discovered many young
orchards of oranges and lemons have been planted. The red mesa land on the side-hills will
not be touched by the frosts of a cold night when the valley at its foot will have enough frost
to kill all tender growth. This is a new discovery, and has placed thousands of acres on the
market as suitable for the culture of citrus fruits. Do you notice how the appearance of the
landscape is changing? The nearer hills are much sharper and steeper, and their sides are studded
by great boulders. There are stone walls, and here and there are great flocks of sheep. The
horses stop of their own accord at a lovely spot where they are used to getting a drink of
cool spring water. Did any ever taste quite so good as that drunk from an old dipper after
a long warm drive? The live-oaks and sycamores look too inviting to be resisted, and we get
out to explore while the horses are resting. Underneath the evergreen shade we pick up some
of the large pointed acorns and carry them away as souvenirs. This would be a delightful spot
for a picnic, but we have many miles before us and must go on. In a few more miles we reach
a little town known as "Alpine." In the distance looms the Viejas, and if any of the party
wish to travel over a grade, now is the opportunity. The top of the grade brings us to a lovely
view. Eastward is an unbroken chain of mountain-peaks, from whose summits may be seen the broad
Pacific on one side and the Colorado Desert on the other.

One of the favorite drives is into the Monte. This is a large park or tract of a thousand acres.
On each side the hills rise, and in front El Cajon shows new beauties with every step of the
way. Great live-oaks with enormous trunks, ancient sycamores, elders, and willows make in some
spots a dense shade. On the edge of the hillsides the Flume may be seen, which furnishes many
ranches as well as the city of San Diego with the purest mountain water. Underneath the trees
and up on the rocks the lover of flowers and ferns will scramble. There are the dainty forget-me-nots,
tiny flowers of starry white, flowers of pale orange with centres of deep maroon, the wild
galliardia, and the wild peony with its variegated leaves. Many other delicate blossoms which
we cannot stop to describe are there too. And the ferns! All kinds may be found by the initiated,
and many are close at hand. The fern lined with gold or with silver, the running ferns, the
ferns of lace-like fineness, the ferns as soft as velvet, all growing in the greatest profusion.
And each day of the week a different drive and new delights.

There is the valley of El Cajon ("the box"), which should be visited in grape-picking time.
The great Boston ranch alone employs three hundred and twenty-five pickers. Men, women, children,
all busy, and the grapes when just turned are sweet, spicy, and delicious, making the air fragrant.
This valley is dotted with handsome villas and prosperous ranches. The range of mountains which
looms up before us from the veranda of the hotel is not yet dignified by a name, yet it is
more imposing than the White Mountains, and in the distance we see old Cuyamaca, nearly seven
thousand feet high. But we must take the next train for San Diego, or this chapter will be
a volume in itself. And I have not even alluded to the "Great Back Country."

The founder of San Diego is still living, still hopeful, still young at heart. "Father" Horton,
the typical pioneer, deserves more honors than he has yet received. Coming from Connecticut
to California in 1851, he soon made a small fortune in mining, buying and selling gold-dust,
and providing the diggers with ice and water for their work. He rode over the country in those
lawless times selling the precious dust disguised as a poverty-stricken good-for-naught, with
trusty revolver always in his right hand on the pommel of the saddle--the handsome green saddle
covered with an old potato sack. In this way he evaded the very men who had been on his track
for weeks. Once he came near capture. He passed a bad-looking lot of horsemen, one of whom
had a deep red scar the whole length of his cheek. He got by safely, but one, looking round,
exclaimed, "My God! That's Horton! I see the green saddle." And back they dashed to kill him
and gain his treasure, but he escaped into a cañon, and they lost their one chance.

At another time he had $3500 in gold in his belt, and at a tavern of poor repute he could hear
through cracks in the floor of his bedroom the gamblers below laughing about the old greenhorn
above who had his supper of mush and milk and had asked for a lock on his door.

Returning East via Panama in 1856, he proved himself a hero and a soldier during the terrible
riot there. The natives, angry because they had lost the money they used to make in transporting
passengers, attacked the foreigners, killing and plundering all who came in their way, the
police turning traitors and aiding them. The hotel was attacked, and among all the passengers
only three were armed. Mr. Horton and these two young men stood at the top of the stairs and
shot all who tried to get nearer. When they fell back eight rioters were dead and others wounded.
Then Mr. Horton formed the two hundred passengers in order and marched them off to a lighter,
and put them aboard the steamer. About half this number wanted to go on to San Francisco, but
had lost all their money and baggage. Mr. Ralston and Mr. Horton helped many to pay their passage,
but not one person was ever heard of again, not one cent was returned, not even one word of
gratitude or good intentions.

Up to the period which is known as the boom of 1870-71, the history of San Diego was so interwoven
and closely connected with the life of Mr. Horton that the story of one is inseparable from
that of the other.

When Mr. Horton came from San Francisco to see the wonderful harbor described by friends, there
was nothing there but two old buildings, the barren hillsides, and the sheep pastures.

His gifts to the city and to individuals amount to a present valuation of over a million of
dollars. Of the nine hundred acres of land which he originally bought (a part of the Mexican
grant) at twenty-seven cents an acre, he owns but little.

But it is to his common sense, foresight, and business ability that the present city owes much
of its success; and it is interesting to hear him tell of exciting adventures in "Poker Flat,"
and other places which Bret Harte has worked up so successfully.

Lieut. George H. Derby is amusingly associated with "Old Town," the former San Diego, three
miles from the present city. He had offended Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War, by his
irreverent wit, and was punished by exile to this then almost unknown region, which he called
"Sandy Ague," chiefly inhabited by the flea, the horned toad, and the rattlesnake. Mr. Ames,
of the Herald, a democratic paper, asked Derby, a stanch whig, to occupy the editorial chair
during a brief absence. He did so, changing its politics at once, and furnishing funny articles
which later appeared as "Phoenixiana," and ranked him with Artemus Ward as a genuine American
humorist. Here is his closing paragraph after those preposterous somersaults and daring pranks
as editor pro tem:

"Very little news will be found in the Herald this week; the fact is, there never is much news
in it, and it is very well that it is so; the climate here is so delightful that residents
in the enjoyment of their dolce far niente care very little about what is going on elsewhere,
and residents of other places care very little about what is going on in San Diego, so all
parties are likely to be gratified with the little paper, 'and long may it wave.'"

The present city has eighteen thousand inhabitants, twenty-three church organizations, remarkably
fine schools, a handsome opera-house, broad asphalt pavements, electric lights, electric and
cable cars,--a compact, well-built city, from the fine homes on the Heights to the business
portion near the water.

In regard to society, I find that the "best society" is much the same all over the civilized
world. Accomplished, cultured, well-bred men and women are found in every town and city in
California. And distance from metropolitan privileges makes people more independent, better
able to entertain themselves and their guests, more eagerly appreciative of the best in every
direction.

    "O city reflecting thy might from the sea,
     There is grandeur and power in the future for thee,
     Whose flower-broidered garments the soft billows lave,
     Thy brow on the hillside, thy feet in the wave."

Many of San Diego's guests have no idea of her at her best. The majority of winter tourists
leave California just as Mother Nature braces up to do her best with wild-flowers, blossoming
orchards, and waving grain-fields. The summers are really more enjoyable than the winters.
When the Nicaragua Canal is completed it will be a pleasant trip to San Diego from any Atlantic
seaport. A railroad to Phoenix, Arizona, via Yuma, will allow the melting, panting, gasping
inhabitants of New Mexico and Arizona an opportunity to get into a delightfully cool climate.

THE INDIANS AND THE MISSION FATHERS.

As for Indians, I have never seen such Indians as Helen Hunt Jackson depicts so lovingly. I
have never seen any one who has seen one. They existed in her imagination only, as did Fenimore
Cooper's noble redmen of the forest solely in his fancy. Both have given us delightful novels,
and we are grateful.

The repulsive stolid creatures I have seen at stations, with sullen stare, long be-vermined
locks, and filthy blankets full of fleas, are possibly not a fair representation of the remnants
of the race. They have been unfairly dealt with. I am glad they can be educated and improved.
They seem to need it. After reading "Ramona" and Mrs. Jackson's touching article on the "Mission
Indians in California," and then looking over the opinions of honest writers of a previous
generation regarding the Indians, it is more puzzling than ever. The following criticisms apply
exclusively to the Southern Californian tribes.

Mr. Robinson, after a twenty years' residence among them, said: "The Indian of California is
a species of monkey; he imitates and copies white men, but selects vice in preference to virtue.
He is hypocritical and treacherous, never looks at any one in conversation, but has a wandering,
malicious gaze. Truth is not in him."

And the next testimony is from an Indian curate: "The Indians lead a life of indolence rather
than devote themselves to the enlightening of their souls with ideas of civilization and cultivation;
it is repugnant to their feelings, which have become vitiated by the unrestricted customs among
them. Their inclination to possess themselves of the property of others is unbounded. Their
hypocrisy when they pray is as much to be feared as their insolence when in tumultuous disorder.
They are never grateful for any benefit, nor do they pardon an injury, and they never proffer
civilities, unless to accomplish some interested motive. They are ready to expose themselves
to the greatest danger to satisfy their predominant passions. The future from them is ever
veiled by the present. Their inconstancy and want of confidence deprives them of friends, and
he who by deception holds them in subjection may reduce them to almost abject slavery."

Dana, speaking of the language of the Californian Indians, described it as "brutish" and "a
complete slabber."

The missionary Fathers did their best to teach and convert them, and the missions must be spoken
of. So we will go back a little.

No one knows how California was so named. St. Diego was the patron saint of Spain. St. Francis,
who founded the Franciscan order, was a gay young Italian, who after conversion led a life
of mortification and extreme self-denial, tramped about like a beggar, scourged himself, slept
on ground, rolled in snow to subdue the flesh, fasted, wept until he was almost blind, saw
visions, like all other great religious leaders, received messages directly from Christ, and
was at last rewarded with the stigmata (the marks of the crucifix on his body), and commemoration
after death.

Father Junipero, of this order, was appointed presiding missionary of California, and arrived
July, 1769, erected a great cross on the coast, celebrated mass, and commenced his work. Like
St. Francis, he was earnest, devout, pure, and self-sacrificing, blessed with wonderful magnetism.
Once, while exhorting his hearers to repent, he scourged his own shoulders so unmercifully
with a chain that his audience shuddered and wept; and one man, overcome by emotion, rushed
to the pulpit, secured the chain, and, disrobing, flogged himself to death. This holy Father
believed that he was especially protected by Heaven, and that once, when journeying on a desolate
road, he was hospitably entertained by the Holy Family.

He said, "I have placed my faith in God, and trust in His goodness to plant the standard of
the holy cross not only at San Diego, but even as far as Monterey."

And this was done in less than ten years, but with many discouragements.

The first Indian who was induced to bring his baby for baptism got frightened, and dashed away,
taking, however, the handsome piece of cloth which had been wrapped around the child for the
ceremony.

Next there was an attack with arrows; in less than a month serious fighting followed; and later
more than one thousand Indians joined in the attack. One priest was killed and all inhabitants
of the mission more or less wounded, and the mission itself was burned. The present ruins are
the "new" buildings on the site of the old, completed in 1784, the walls of adobe four feet
thick, the doorways and windows of burnt tiles. These half-cylindrical plates of hard-burnt
clay were used to protect the inmates from the sun and the burning arrows of the Indians, and
are now greatly valued as relics.

In front is the orchard of three hundred olive trees, more than a century old, still bearing
a full crop, and likely to do so for centuries to come. As the Indians disliked work much,
and church services more, they were encouraged in both matters by rather forcible means, as
the Irishman "enticed" the pig into his pen with a pitchfork. We "tourists" who, dismounting
from our carriages, view with sentimental reverence the picturesque ruins, the crumbling arches,
the heavy bells now silent but mutely telling a wondrous story of the past, and tiptoe quietly
through the damp interiors, gazing at pictures of saints and of hell and paradise, dropping
our coins into the box at the door, and going out duly impressed to admire the architecture
or the carving, or the general fine effect against the sky of fleckless blue--we picture these
sable neophytes coming gladly, bowing in devout homage, delighted to learn of God and Duty,
and cheerfully coöperating with the good priests who had come so far to teach them. In 1827
the San Diego mission had within its boundaries an Indian population of 1500, 10,000 head of
cattle, 17,000 sheep, and more than 1000 horses. But Mr. Robinson tells us that the Indians
were dragged to service, were punished and chained if they tried to escape, and that it was
not unusual to see numbers of them driven along by a leader and forced with a whip-lash into
the doors of the sanctuary.

It is said that they were literally enslaved and scared into submission by dreadful pictures
of hell and fear of everlasting torment. After church they would gamble, and they often lost
everything, even wives and children. They were low, brutal, unintelligent, with an exceedingly
limited vocabulary and an unbounded appetite. A man is as he eats, and, as some one says, "If
a man eats peanuts he will think peanuts."

"There was nothing that could be swallowed and digested which the San Diego Indian would not
eat. Snakes, half roasted and even raw, were toothsome dainties. The horned toad and the lizard
had favorite places at each repast. Human parasites were not refused, and mice, gophers, bats,
caterpillars, worms, entrails, and even carrion, were consumed with a greed that did not stop
at pounds. Hittel says that twenty-four pounds of meat in a day was not too much for a Californian
Indian, and Baegart mentions the case of one native who ate seventeen watermelons at a sitting.
The smoking of wild tobacco was carried on to equal excess."

The saintly Fathers deserve unlimited praise for making them accomplish so much and behave
as well as they did. Those New Englanders who criticise them as severe in discipline must remember
that at the same period our ancestors were persecuting Quakers and burning witches. The beautiful
hospitality of these early priests should also be mentioned.

Alfred Robinson described a miracle play which he saw performed at San Diego at Christmas,
in 1830, as akin to the miracle plays of mediæval Europe. The actors took the part of Gabriel,
Lucifer, shepherds, a hermit, and Bartolo, a lazy vagabond who was the clown and furnished
the element of comedy: the whole interspersed with songs and incidents better adapted to the
stage than to the church.

CHAPTER IV.

EN ROUTE TO LOS ANGELES.

    "Bless me, this is pleasant,
     Riding on the rail!"

On the Surf Line from San Diego to Los Angeles, a seventy-mile run along the coast, there is
so much to see, admire, and think about, that the time passes rapidly without napping or nodding.
Take a chair seat on the left of car--the ocean side--and enjoy the panoramic view from the
window: the broad expanse of the Pacific, its long curling breakers, the seals and porpoises
tumbling about in clumsy frolics, the graceful gulls circling above them, the picturesque cañons,
and the flocks of birds starting from the ground, frightened by our approach. This we watch
for more than an hour; then the scene changes, and, leaving the water, we have glimpses of
wondrous carpets of wild-flowers, the golden poppy predominant, miles of brilliant green on
either hand, peeps at the three missions, the groves at Orange, the town of Santa Ana, and
Anaheim, the parent colony, the first of all the irrigated settlements of Southern California,
now a wealthy city.

The missions are always interesting. San Juan Capistrano was seriously injured by an earthquake
in 1812; the tower was shaken so severely that it toppled over during morning mass, killing
thirty of the worshippers, the priests escaping through the sacristy. It was the latest and
costliest of the missions. "Its broken olive mill and crumbling dove-cote, and the spacious
weed-grown courts and corridors, are pathetic witnesses to the grandeur of the plans and purposes
of the founders, and also of the rapidity with which nature effaces the noblest works of human
hands."

But San Luis Rey is in good condition, having been restored to something of its original beauty,
and recently re-dedicated. The walled enclosures once contained fifty-six acres, six being
covered by the sacred edifice, its arched colonnades, and the cloisters, in which the Fathers
lived, surrounded by three thousand baptized savages. Mrs. Jeanne C. Carr quotes a stage-driver
with whom she talked on the box as saying: "Ye see, ma'am, what them old padders didn't know
'bout findin' work for their subjicks and pervidin' for the saints 'n' angels, not to say therselves,
wa'n't wuth knowin'. They carried on all kinds o' bizness. Meat was plenty, keepin' an' vittles
was to be had at all the missions an' ranches too, jes' by settin' round. The pastures and
hills was alive with horses and cattle, an' hides an' taller was their coin. They cured and
stacked the hides, dug holes in stiff ground, an' run the taller into 'em; it kep' sweet until
a ship laid up to Capistrano, then that taller turned into gold. They could load up a big ship
in a single day, they had so many Indians to help." And he proceeded to tell of his own lucky
find: "A lot of that holy taller was lost 'n' fergot, nobuddy knows how many years. One night
I went up into the grass beyant the mission to stake out my hosses; an' when I druv the fust
stake it went way deawn, like 'twas in soft mud. I jes' yanked it up: half on 't was kivered
with grease. The evening was cool, but the day had been brilin', an' now mebbe ye kin guess
how I found my taller mine. 'Twas a leetle mouldy on top, but the heft on 't was hard,--a reg'lar
bonanzy fer a stage-driver."

It may seem irreverent to introduce this droll fellow in sharp contrast with the beautiful
ruin, full of the most cherished memories of old Spain, but reality often gives romance a hard
jar. It is pleasant to know that the expelled Franciscan order has just returned to California,
and that San Luis Rey is now occupied. It is worth making the trip to San Juan to see the old
bells struck, as in former times, by a rope attached to the clapper. They have different tones,
and how eloquently they speak to us. These missions along the coast and a line farther inland
are the only real ruins that we have in America, and must be preserved, whether as a matter
of sentiment or money, and in some way protected from the vandals who think it jolly fun to
lug off the old red tiles, or even the stone bowl for holy water--anything they can steal.
At San Juan the plaster statues have been disgracefully mutilated by relic-hunters and thoughtless
visitors. Eyes have been picked out, noses cut off, fingers carried away, and the altar-cloths
everywhere have been slashed at the corners.

A society has been formed to try to save them, and one learned and enthusiastic mission lover
proposes to revive the old Camino del Rey, or King's Highway. "What could not the drive from
San Diego to Sonoma be made if the State once roused herself to make it? Planted and watered
and owned as an illustration of forestry, why should it not also as a route of pilgrimage rank
with that to Canterbury or Cologne on the Rhine? The Franciscans have given to California a
nomenclature which connects them and us permanently with what was great in their contemporary
history, while we preserve daily upon our lips the names of the great chiefs of their own order."

But where am I? Those mouldering walls led me into a reverie. Speaking of "ruins" reminds me
of a Frenchman who called on the poet Longfellow in his old age and explained his visit in
this way: "Sare, you 'ave no ruins in dis country, so I 'ave come to see you."

The cactus hedge around each mission to keep the cattle in, and possibly the hostile Indians
out, must have been effective. We see now and then a little that has survived. This makes me
think of a curious bird I noticed in my drives at San Diego, the roadrunner, classed with the
cuckoo. It has various names, the chaparral-cock, the ground-cuckoo, the prairie-cock, paisano,
and worst of all, in classic nomenclature, the Geococcyx californianus.

It keeps on the ground most of the time, and can run with such swiftness that it cannot be
easily overtaken by horse and hounds. It has a tail longer than its body, which it bears erect.
It kills beetles, toads, birds, and mice, but has a special dislike for the rattlesnake, and
often meets him and beats him in fair combat. When it finds one sleeping or torpid it makes
a circle of cactus thorns around him so he cannot escape--for "future reference," as my driver
said.

This thorny circle is akin to the lariat made of horsehair, the ends sticking out roughly all
around, with which the Indian used to encircle himself before going to sleep, as a protection
from the rattlesnake, who could not cross it. But here we are at Los Angeles. Hear the bawling
cabbies: "This way for The Westminster!" "Hollenbeck Hotel!"

CHAPTER V.

LOS ANGELES AND ROUND ABOUT.

    "O southland! O dreamland! with cycles of green;
      O moonlight enchanted by mocking-bird's song;
    Cool sea winds, fair mountains, the fruit-lands between,
      The pepper tree's shade, and the sunny days long."

Los Angeles is the chief city of Southern California, and truly venerable in comparison with
most places in the State--founded in 1781, now one hundred and twelve years old. Its full name,
"Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles," "musical as a chime of bells," would hardly do in
these days, and "The City of the Angels," as it is sometimes called, scarcely suits the present
big business-y place, which was started by those shrewd old padres when everything west of
the Alleghanies was an almost unknown region, and Chicago and St. Louis were not thought of.
These Fathers were far-sighted fellows, with a keen eye for the beautiful, sure to secure good
soil, plenty of water, and fine scenery for a settlement. Next came the Hispano-American era
of adobe, stage-coaches, and mule teams, now replaced by the purely American possessions, with
brick, stone, vestibule trains, and all the wonders of electricity. It is now a commercial
centre, a railroad terminal, with one hundred miles of street-car track within the city limits,
carrying twelve million passengers yearly. It has outgrown the original grant of six miles
square, and has a city limit, and the first street traversed this square diagonally. It lies
on the west bank of the Los Angeles River, one of those peculiar streams which hides itself
half the year only to burst forth in the spring in a most assertive manner. There are fine
public buildings, fifty-seven churches, to suit all shades of religious belief, two handsome
theatres, several parks, and long streets showing homes and grounds comparing favorably with
the best environs of Eastern cities. It is well to drive through Adams and Figueroa streets
before you leave. There are no attractive hotels at present; but one is so greatly needed and
desired that it will soon be designed and realized.

Madame de Staël was right when she said she greatly preferred meeting interesting men and women
to admiring places or scenery. Among my pleasantest memories of Los Angeles are my visits to
Madame Fremont in her pretty red cottage, presented by loving friends. It is a privilege to
meet such a clever, versatile woman. Her conversation flashes with epigrams and pithy sayings,
and her heart is almost as young as when it was captured by the dashing "Pathfinder."

I believe there are men still existing who keep up the old absurd fallacy that women are deficient
in wit and humor! She would easily convert all such.

The Coronels, to whom Mrs. Jackson was so indebted and of whom she wrote so appreciatively,
are still in the same home, cherishing her memory most fondly, her photograph being placed
in a shrine where the sweet-faced madame kneels daily, and her books and knick-knacks are preserved
as precious souvenirs.

Don Antonio Coronel is truly a most interesting personage, the last specimen of the grand old
Spanish régime. His father was the first schoolmaster in California, and the son has in his
possession the first schoolbook printed on this coast, at Monterey in 1835, a small catechism;
also the first book printed in California, a tiny volume dated 1833, the father having brought
the type from Spain.

I was taken to the basement to see a rare collection of antiquities. In one corner is a cannon
made in 1710, and brought by Junipero Serra. Ranged on shelves is a collection such as can
be found nowhere else, of great value: strange stone idols, a few specimens of the famous iridescent
pottery, queer ornaments, toys, and relics. In another corner see the firearms and weapons
of long ago: old flintlocks, muskets, Spanish bayonets, crossbows, and spears. There are coins,
laces, baskets, toys, skulls, scalps, and a sombrero with two long red pennons, on which each
feather represents a human scalp. Upstairs there are early specimens of Mexican art; one of
the oldest pictures of Junipero Serra; groups in clay modelled by the Dona Mariana of Mexican
scenes; feather pictures made from the plumage of gorgeous birds--too much to remember or describe
here. But I do believe that if asked to say what they valued most, they would point to the
little wooden table where their dear friend sat when she wrote the first pages of "Ramona."

For the stranger Los Angeles is the place to go to to see a new play, or marvel at the display
of fruits seen at a citrus fair--forts made of thousands of oranges, and railroad stations
and crowns of lemons, etc.--and admire a carnival of flowers, or for a day's shopping; but
there are better spots in which to remain. I found the night air extremely unpleasant last
winter, and after hearing from a veracious druggist, to whom I applied for a gargle, that there
was an epidemic of grip in the city, and that many died of pneumonia and that a small majority
of the invalids got well, I packed my trunk hastily and started for Pasadena.

Those who live in the city and those who do not dislike raw, bracing winds from the ocean pronounce
Los Angeles to be the only place worth living in in all Southern California. Each place has
its supporters ignoring all other attractions, and absolutely opposite accounts of the weather
have been seriously given me by visitors to each. For those who must be "high and dry" to improve,
the rainy season is certainly unsafe.

