When the Snow Moon came he moved with Graytail to the Castle Frank woods, where food was plenty
as well as grand old trees. There was in particular, on the east slope among the creeping hemlocks,
a splendid pine. It was six feet through, and its first branches began at the tops of the other
trees. Its top in summer-time was a famous resort for the bluejay and his bride. Here, far
beyond the reach of shot, in warm spring days the jay would sing and dance before his mate,
spread his bright blue plumes and warble the sweetest fairyland music, so sweet and soft that
few hear it but the one for whom it is meant, and books know nothing at all about it.

This great pine had an especial interest for Redruff, now living near with his remaining young
one, but its base, not its far-away crown, concerned him. All around were low, creeping hemlocks,
and among them the partridge-vine and the wintergreen grew, and the sweet black acorns could
be scratched from under the snow. There was no better feeding-ground, for when that insatiable
gunner came on them there it was easy to run low among the hemlock to the great pine, then
rise with a derisive whirr behind its bulk, and keeping the huge trunk in line with the deadly
gun, skim off in safety. A dozen times at least the pine had saved them during the lawful murder
season, and here it was that Cuddy, knowing their feeding habits, laid a new trap. Under the
bank he sneaked and watched in ambush while an accomplice went around the Sugar Loaf to drive
the birds. He came trampling through the low thicket where Redruff and Graytail were feeding,
and long before the gunner was dangerously near Redruff gave a low warning 'rrr-rrr' (danger)
and walked quickly toward the great pine in case they had to rise.

Graytail was some distance up the hill, and suddenly caught sight of a new foe close at hand,
the yellow cur, coming right on. Redruff, much farther off, could not see him for the bushes,
and Graytail became greatly alarmed.

'Kwit, kwit' (Fly, fly), she cried, running down the hill for a start. 'Kreet, k-r-r-r' (This
way, hide), cried the cooler Redruff, for he saw that now the man with the gun was getting
in range. He gained the great trunk, and behind it, as he paused a moment to call earnestly
to Graytail, 'This way, this way,' he heard a slight noise under the bank before him that betrayed
the ambush, then there was a terrified cry from Graytail as the dog sprang at her, she rose
in air and skimmed behind the shielding trunk, away from the gunner in the open, right into
the power of the miserable wretch under the bank.

Whirr, and up she went, a beautiful, sentient, noble being.

Bang, and down she fell--battered and bleeding, to gasp her life out and to lie a rumpled mass
of carrion in the snow.

It was a perilous place for Redruff. There was no chance for a safe rise, so he squatted low.
The dog came within ten feet of him, and the stranger, coming across to Cuddy, passed at five
feet, but he never moved till a chance came to slip behind the great trunk away from both.
Then he safely rose and flew to the lonely glen by Taylor's Hill.

One by one the deadly cruel gun had stricken his near ones down, till now, once more, he was
alone. The Snow Moon slowly passed with many a narrow escape, and Redruff, now known to be
the only survivor of his kind, was relentlessly pursued, and grew wilder every day.

It seemed, at length, a waste of time to follow him with a gun, so when the snow was deepest,
and food scarcest, Cuddy hatched a new plot. Right across the feeding-ground, almost the only
good one now in the Stormy Moon, he set a row of snares. A cottontail rabbit, an old friend,
cut several of these with his sharp teeth, but some remained, and Redruff, watching a far-off
speck that might turn out a hawk, trod right in one of them, and in an instant was jerked into
the air to dangle by one foot.

Have the wild things no moral or legal rights? What right has man to inflict such long and
fearful agony on a fellow-creature, simply because that creature does not speak his language?
All that day, with growing, racking pains, poor Redruff hung and beat his great, strong wings
in helpless struggles to be free. All day, all night, with growing torture, until he only longed
for death. But no one came. The morning broke, the day wore on, and still he hung there, slowly
dying; his very strength a curse. The second night crawled slowly down, and when, in the dawdling
hours of darkness, a great Horned Owl, drawn by the feeble flutter of a dying wing, cut short
the pain, the deed was wholly kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wind blew down the valley from the north. The snow-horses went racing over the wrinkled
ice, over the Don Flats, and over the marsh toward the lake, white, for they were driven snow,
but on them, scattered dark, were riding plumy fragments of partridge ruffs--the famous rainbow
ruffs. And they rode on the wind that night, away, away to the south, over the dark lake, as
they rode in the gloom of his Mad Moon flight, riding and riding on till they were engulfed,
the last trace of the last of the Don Valley race.

For no partridge is heard in Castle Frank now--and in Mud Creek Ravine the old pine drum-log,
unused, has rotted in silence away.

RAGGYLUG

THE STORY OF A COTTONTAIL RABBIT

Raggylug, or Rag, was the name of a young cottontail rabbit. It was given him from his torn
and ragged ear, a life-mark that he got in his first adventure. He lived with his mother in
Olifant's swamp, where I made their acquaintance and gathered, in a hundred different ways,
the little bits of proof and scraps of truth that at length enabled me to write this history.

Those who do not know the animals well may think I have humanized them, but those who have
lived so near them as to know somewhat of their ways and their minds will not think so.

Truly rabbits have no speech as we understand it, but they have a way of conveying ideas by
a system of sounds, signs, scents, whisker-touches, movements, and example that answers the
purpose of speech; and it must be remembered that though in telling this story I freely translate
from rabbit into English, I repeat nothing that they did not say.

I

The rank swamp grass bent over and concealed the snug nest where Raggylug's mother had hidden
him. She had partly covered him with some of the bedding, and, as always, her last warning
was to 'lay low and say nothing, whatever happens.' Though tucked in bed, he was wide awake
and his bright eyes were taking in that part of his little green world that was straight above.
A bluejay and a red-squirrel, two notorious thieves, were loudly berating each other for stealing,
and at one time Rag's home bush was the centre of their fight; a yellow warbler caught a blue
butterfly but six inches from his nose, and a scarlet and black ladybug, serenely waving her
knobbed feelers, took a long walk up one grassblade, down another, and across the nest and
over Rag's face--and yet he never moved nor even winked.

After awhile he heard a strange rustling of the leaves in the near thicket. It was an odd,
continuous sound, and though it went this way and that way and came ever nearer, there was
no patter of feet with it. Rag had lived his whole life in the swamp (he was three weeks old)
and yet had never heard anything like this. Of course his curiosity was greatly aroused. His
mother had cautioned him to lay low, but that was understood to be in case of danger, and this
strange sound without footfalls could not be any to fear.

