The blood rushed to Claire's face.  How much did Mrs Fanshawe know? Had Erskine told her of
that hurried interview upon the station?  Had he by any possibility told what he had asked?
The blazing cheeks asked the question as plainly as any words, and Mrs Fanshawe replied to
it without delay.

"Oh, yes, my dear, I know all about it.  It was because I guessed that was coming that I wanted
to clear the coast; but it appears that I was too late.  Shall we sit down and talk this out,
and for pity's sake see that that woman doesn't come blundering in.  It's such an anti-climax
to have to deal with a tea-tray in the midst of personal explanations.  I'm not accustomed
to eating humble pie, and if I am obliged to do it at all, I prefer to do it in private."

"She won't come.  I don't have tea for another hour," Claire assured her.  "And please don't
eat humble pie for me.  I was angry at the time, but you had been very kind to me before. 
I--I enjoyed that first week very much."

"And so did I!"  Mrs Fanshawe gave one of her dry, humorous, little laughs.  "You are a charming
companion, my dear.  I was a little in love with you myself, but-- Well! to be honest, it did
not please me that my son should follow my example.  He is my only child, and I am proud and
ambitious for him, as any mother would be.  I did not wish him to marry a--a--"

"A gentlewoman who was honourably working at an honourable profession!" concluded Claire for
her, with a general stiffening of pose, voice and manner; but Mrs Fanshawe only laughed once
more, totally unaffected by the pose.

"No, my dear, I did not!  It's very praiseworthy, no doubt, to train the next generation, but
it doesn't appeal to me in the present connection. I was thinking of my son, and I wanted him
to have a wife of position and fortune, who would be able to help his career.  If you had been
a girl of fortune and position, I should have been quite ready to welcome you.  You are a pretty
creature, and much more intelligent than most girls of your age, but, you see, you are not--"

"I have no money but what I earn, but I belong to a good family.  I object to your saying that
I have no position, Mrs Fanshawe, simply because I live in lodgings and work for my living!"

Mrs Fanshawe shrugged with a touch of impatience.

"Oh, well, my dear, why bandy words?  I have told you that I am beaten, so it's useless to
argue the point.  Erskine has decided for himself, and, as I told you before, one might as
well try to bend a granite wall as move him when he has once made up his mind.  I've planned,
and schemed, and hoped, and prayed for the last dozen years, and at the first sight of that
pretty face of yours all my plans went to the wall. If I'd been a wise woman I would have recognised
the inevitable, and given in with a good grace, but I never was wise, never shall be, so I
ran my head up against the wall.  I've been through a bad time since you left me, my dear,
and I was forgiven only on the understanding that I came here and made my peace with you. 
Have I made peace?  Do you understand what I mean?  That I withdraw my opposition, and if you
accept my boy, you shall have nothing to fear.  I'll make you welcome; and I'll be as good
to you as it's in my nature to be.  I'll treat you with every courtesy.  Upon my word, my dear,
as mothers-in-law go, I think you would come off pretty well!"

"I--I--I'm sure--You're very kind..."  Claire stammered in helpless embarrassment; and Mrs
Fanshawe, watching her, first smiled, then sighed, and said in a quick low voice--

"Ah, my dear, you can afford to be generous!  If you live to be my age, and have a son of your
own, whom you have loved, and cherished, and mothered for over thirty years, and at the end
he speaks harshly to you for the sake of a girl whom he has known a few short months, puts
her before you, finds it hard to forgive you because you have wounded her pride--ah, well,
it's hard to bear!  I don't want to whine, but--don't make it more difficult for me than you
can help!  I have apologised. Now it's for you--"

Claire put both arms round the erect figure, and rested her head on the folds of the black
satin cloak.  Neither spoke, but Mrs Fanshawe lifted a little lace-edged handkerchief to her
eyes, and her shoulders heaved once and again.  Then suddenly she arose and walked towards
the door.

"The car is waiting.  Don't come with me, my dear.  I'll see you again."

She waived Claire back in the old imperious way against which there was no appeal.  Evidently
she wished to be alone, and Claire re-seated herself on the sofa, flushed, trembling, so shaken
out of her bearings that it was difficult to keep hold of connected thought.  The impossible
had happened.  In the course of a few short minutes difficulties which had seemed insurmountable
had been swept from her path.  Within her grasp was happiness so great, so dazzling that the
very thought of it took away her breath.

Her eyes fell on the watch at her wrist.  Ten minutes to four!  Twenty minutes ago--barely
twenty minutes--at the end of the field path she had looked at that little gold face with a
dreamy indifference, wondering only how many minutes remained to be whiled away before it was
time for tea.  Even a solitary tea-drinking had seemed an epoch in the uneventful day.  Uneventful!
Claire mentally repeated the word, the while her eyes glowed, and her heart beat in joyful
exultation.  Surely, surely in after-remembrance this day would stand out as one all-important,
epoch- making.

And then suddenly came a breathless question.  How had Mrs Fanshawe discovered her retreat?
No address had been left at Laburnum Crescent; no address had been given to Janet Willoughby.
Cecil was in her mother's home; Sophie in hospital.  In the name of all that was mysterious
and inexplicable, how had she been tracked?

Claire sat bolt upright on her sofa, her grey eyes widened in amaze, her breath coming sharply
through her parted lips.  She thrilled at the realisation that Erskine's will had overcome
all difficulties.  Had not Mrs Fanshawe declared that she came at his instigation?  And where
the mother had come, would not the son follow?

At that moment a shadow fell across the floor; against the open space of the window a tall
figure stood, blocking the light.  Erskine's eager eyes met her own.  Before the first gasp
of surprise had left her lips, his strong hands had gripped the sill, he had vaulted over and
stood by her side.

"I sent on my advance guard, and waited till her return.  Did you think you had hidden yourself
where I could not find you?  I should have found you wherever you had gone; but as it happens
it was easy enough.  You forgot that you had forwarded flowers to your friend in hospital!
She was ready enough to give me your address.  And now--Claire"--he held out his hands, gazing
down into her face--"what have you to say to me now?"

Instinctively Claire's hands stretched out to meet his, but on the following impulse she drew
back, clasping them nervously behind her back.

"Oh, are you sure?" she cried breathlessly.  "Are you sure you are sure?  Think what it means!
Think of the difference it might make!  I have no money, no influence; I'd be an expense to
you, and a drag when another girl might help.  Think!  Think!  Oh, do be quite sure!"

Erskine's stern eyes melted into a beautiful tenderness as he looked at her troubled face.
He waited no longer, but came a step nearer, and took forcible possession of the hidden hands.

"It is not my feelings which are in question; it is yours.  There has been no doubt in my mind
for months past.  I think you know that, Claire!"

"But--your career?"

"I can look after my own career.  Do you think it is the straight thing to suggest to a soldier
that he needs a woman to help him in his work? It's not as a soldier I need you, but as a man.
I need you there, Claire.  I need you badly!  No one else could help me as you can!"

Claire's lips quivered, but still she hung back, standing away from him at the length of her
stretched arms.

"I've no money.  I'm a--a school-mistress.  Your friends will think--"

"I am not considering what my friends will think."

"Your mother thought--"

"I am not asking you to marry my mother.  Mothers of only sons are hard to please, but you
know as well as I can tell you that the mater is fond of you at heart, and that she will grow
fonder still.  She had her own ideas, and she fought for them, but she won't fight any more.
You mustn't be hard on the mater, Claire.  She has done her best for me to- day."

"I know!  I know!  I was sorry for her.  Sorrier than I was for myself. It's so hard that I
should have come between you two!"

At that Erskine laughed, a short, impatient laugh.

"Oh, Claire, Claire, how long are you going to waste time in discussing other people's feelings,
before you tell me about your own?  Darling, I'm in love with you!--I'm in love for the first
time in my life.  I'm impatient.  I'm waiting.  There's no one in the world for me at this
moment but just yourself; I'm waiting for you to forget every one but me.  Do you love me, Claire?"

"You know I do!  You know I do!  Oh!" cried Claire, yielding to the strength of the strong
arms, and resting her head on the broad shoulder with an unspeakable rush of joy and rest.
"Oh, but you don't know how much!  I can't tell you--I can't put it into words, but it's my
whole heart, my whole life!  Oh, every thought has been with you for such a long, long time."

"My darling!  My own sweet, brave little girl!  And my thoughts with you!  Thank God, we shall
be together now.  We have had enough of separation and chance meetings.  There must be an end
of that.  You'll have to marry me at once!"

This was rushing ahead with a vengeance!  Claire shook her head, with a little laugh sweet
as a chime of joy bells.

"You ridiculous--boy!  I can't.  It's impossible.  You forget my work. There's all next term.
I couldn't possibly leave without giving notice."

"Couldn't you!  We'll see to that.  Do you seriously believe that I'm going to let you go back
to that drudgery, and kick my heels waiting for four months?  You don't understand the kind
of man you are marrying, my lass!"

Claire loved the sound of that "my lass," loved the close grip of the arms, the feel of the
rough cheek against her own.  For a few minutes neither spoke, too utterly, completely absorbed
in each other's presence.  To Claire, as to Erskine, a four months' delay seemed an aeon of
time through which to wade before the consummation of a perfect happiness, but it seemed impossible
that it could be avoided.

"Miss Farnborough would never let me off.  She would be indignant with me for asking."

"I'll tackle Miss Farnborough.  Leave Miss Farnborough to me!" returned Erskine with so confident
an air that Claire shook with amusement, seeing before her a picture of her lover seated tete-a-tete
with the formidable "Head," breaking to her the news that one of her staff intended to play truant.

"It's very easy to say that.  You don't know her.  She thinks everything in the world comes
second to education."

"What if she does?  I'll agree with her.  You're the most precious darling in all the world,
but you can't honestly believe that there aren't a thousand other mistresses who could teach
those flappers as well, or better!  Whereas for me--well! it's Claire, or no one.  I'll throw
myself on the good lady's tender mercies, and ask for your release as a favour to myself, and
I bet you anything you like that I succeed. Miss Farnborough was a woman before she was a school-mistress.
She'll set you free all right!"

"Perhaps--perhaps possibly at the half term."

"Rubbish--the half term!  We'll be married and settled down before we get near then...  Where
will you go for our marriage, Claire?  To Mrs Willoughby?  I'm sure she'd be willing."

"No!--no!"  Claire marvelled at the obtuseness of men; at the utter unconsciousness of this
particular man of the reason why Mrs Willoughby's house should be the last one on earth from
which his marriage should take place.  And then in the midst of these questionings, to her
own surprise a sudden pricking of tears came to her eyes, and she cried sharply, "I want mother!
I must have mother.  She must come home.  She'll come at once, when she hears--"

"We'll cable to-day.  That will be best of all.  I'm longing to meet your mother, and you ought
to have her with you, little lass!  Poor, little, lonely lass!  Please God, you shall never
be lonely any more."

"Ah, Erskine darling, but the other women!"  Claire cried, and there was the sharpness of pain
in her voice.

From within the shelter of her lover's arms her heart went out in a wave of tenderness towards
her sisters who stood apart from the royal feast; towards Cecil with her blighted love, Sophie
with her blighted health, with the thousand others for whom they stood as types; the countless
hordes of women workers for whom life was a monotonous round of grey- hued days, shadowed by
the prospect of age and want.  From the shelter of her lover's arms, Claire Gifford vowed herself
to the service of her working sisters.  From the bottom of her heart she thanked God for the
year of work which had taught her to understand.

THE END.