Yet, unwelcomely early as the tones came, they awaked him a different being in strength and
spirits from what he had fallen asleep. Confidence in himself and his fortunes returned with
his reviving spirits, and with the rising sun. He thought of his love no longer as a desperate
and fantastic dream, but as a high and invigorating principle, to be cherished in his bosom,
although he might never purpose to himself, under all the difficulties by which he was beset,
to bring it to any prosperous issue.

"The pilot," he reflected, "steers his bark by the polar star, although he never expects to
become possessor of it, and the thoughts of Isabelle of Croye shall make me a worthy man at
arms, though I may never see her more. When she hears that a Scottish soldier named Quentin
Durward distinguished himself in a well fought field, or left his body on the breach of a disputed
fortress, she will remember the companion of her journey, as one who did all in his power to
avert the snares and misfortunes which beset it, and perhaps will honour his memory with a
tear, his coffin with a garland."

In this manly mood of bearing his misfortune, Quentin felt himself more able to receive and
reply to the jests of the Count of Crevecoeur, who passed several on his alleged effeminacy
and incapacity of undergoing fatigue. The young Scot accommodated himself so good humouredly
to the Count's raillery, and replied at once so happily and so respectfully, that the change
of his tone and manner made obviously a more favourable impression on the Count than he had
entertained from his prisoner's conduct during the preceding evening, when, rendered irritable
by the feelings of his situation, he was alternately moodily silent or fiercely argumentative.
The veteran soldier began at length to take notice of his young companion as a pretty fellow,
of whom something might be made, and more than hinted to him that would he but resign his situation
in the Archer Guard of France, he would undertake to have him enrolled in the household of
the Duke of Burgundy in an honourable condition, and would himself take care of his advancement.
And although Quentin, with suitable expressions of gratitude, declined this favour at present,
until he should find out how far he had to complain of his original patron, King Louis, he,
nevertheless, continued to remain on good terms with the Count of Crevecoeur, and, while his
enthusiastic mode of thinking, and his foreign and idiomatical manner of expressing himself,
often excited a smile on the grave cheek of the Count, that smile had lost all that it had
of sarcastic and bitter, and did not exceed the limits of good humour and good manners.

Thus travelling on with much more harmony than on the preceding day, the little party came
at last within two miles of the famous and strong town of Peronne, near which the Duke of Burgundy's
army lay encamped, ready, as was supposed, to invade France, and, in opposition to which, Louis
XI had himself assembled a strong force near Saint Maxence, for the purpose of bringing to
reason his over powerful vassal.

Perrone, situated upon a deep river, in a flat country, and surrounded by strong bulwarks and
profound moats, was accounted in ancient as in modern times, one of the strongest fortresses
in France. [Indeed, though lying on an exposed and warlike frontier, it was never taken by
an enemy, but preserved the proud name of Peronne la Pucelle, until the Duke of Wellington,
a great destroyer of that sort of reputation, took the place in the memorable advance upon
Paris in 1815. S.] The Count of Crevecoeur, his retinue, and his prisoner, were approaching
the fortress about the third hour after noon, when riding through the pleasant glades of a
large forest, which then covered the approach to the town on the east side, they were met by
two men of rank, as appeared from the number of their attendants, dressed in the habits worn
in time of peace, and who, to judge from the falcons which they carried on their wrists, and
the number of spaniels and greyhounds led by their followers, were engaged in the amusement
of hawking. But on perceiving Crevecoeur, with whose appearance and liveries they were sufficiently
intimate, they quitted the search which they were making for a heron along the banks of a long
canal, and came galloping towards him.

"News, news, Count of Crevecoeur," they cried both together, "will you give news, or take news?
or will you barter fairly?"

"I would barter fairly, Messires," said Crevecoeur, after saluting them courteously, "did I
conceive you had any news of importance sufficient to make an equivalent for mine."

The two sportsmen smiled on each other, and the elder of the two, a fine baronial figure, with
a dark countenance, marked with that sort of sadness which some physiognomists ascribe to a
melancholy temperament, and some, as the Italian statuary augured of the visage of Charles
I, consider as predicting an unhappy death, turning to his companion, said, "Crevecoeur has
been in Brabant, the country of commerce, and he has learned all its artifices--he will be
too hard for us if we drive a bargain."

"Messires," said Crevecoeur, "the Duke ought in justice to have the first of my wares, as the
Seigneur takes his toll before open market begins. But tell me, are your news of a sad or a
pleasant complexion?"

The person whom he particularly addressed was a lively looking man, with an eye of great vivacity,
which was corrected by an expression of reflection and gravity about the mouth and upper lip--the
whole physiognomy marking a man who saw and judged rapidly, but was sage and slow in forming
resolutions or in expressing opinions. This was the famous Knight of Hainault, son of Collara,
or Nicolas de l'Elite, known in history, and amongst historians, by the venerable name of Philip
de Comines, at this time close to the person of Duke Charles the Bold, and one of his most
esteemed counsellors. He answered Crevecoeur's question concerning the complexion of the news
of which he and his companion, the Baron D'Hymbercourt, were the depositaries.

[Philip de Comines was described in the former editions of this work as a little man, fitted
rather for counsel than action. This was a description made at a venture, to vary the military
portraits with which the age and work abound. Sleidan the historian, upon the authority of
Matthieu d'Arves, who knew Philip de Comines, and had served in his household, says he was
a man of tall stature, and a noble presence. The learned Monsieur Petitot... intimates that
Philip de Comines made a figure at the games of chivalry and pageants exhibited on the wedding
of Charles of Burgundy with Margaret of England in 1468.... He is the first named, however,
of a gallant band of assailants, knights and noblemen, to the number of twenty, who, with the
Prince of Orange as their leader, encountered, in a general tourney, with a party of the same
number under the profligate Adolf of Cleves, who acted as challenger, by the romantic title
of Arbre d'or. The encounter, though with arms of courtesy, was very fierce, and separated
by main force, not without difficulty. Philip de Comines has, therefore, a title to be accounted
tam Martre quam Mercurio... S.]

[D'Hymbercourt, or Imbercourt, was put to death by the inhabitants of Ghent, with the Chancellor
of Burgundy, in the year 1477. Mary of Burgundy, daughter of Charles the Bold, appeared in
mourning in the marketplace, and with tears besought the life of her servants from her insurgent
subjects, but in vain. S.]

"They were," he said, "like the colours of the rainbow, various in hue, as they might be viewed
from different points, and placed against the black cloud or the fair sky.--Such a rainbow
was never seen in France or Flanders, since that of Noah's ark."

"My tidings," replied Crevecoeur, "are altogether like the comet, gloomy, wild, and terrible
in themselves, yet to be accounted the forerunners of still greater and more dreadful evils
which are to ensue."

"We must open our bales," said Comines to his companion, "or our market will be forestalled
by some newcomers, for ours are public news.--In one word, Crevecoeur--listen and wonder--King
Louis is at Peronne."

"What!" said the Count in astonishment, "has the Duke retreated without a battle? and do you
remain here in your dress of peace, after the town is besieged by the French?--for I cannot
suppose it taken."

"No, surely," said D'Hymbercourt, "the banners of Burgundy have not gone back a foot, and still
King Louis is here."

"Then Edward of England must have come over the seas with his bowmen," said Crevecoeur, "and,
like his ancestors, gained a second field of Poictiers?"

"Not so," said Comines. "Not a French banner has been borne down, not a sail spread from England--where
Edward is too much amused among the wives of the citizens of London to think of playing the
Black Prince. Hear the extraordinary truth. You know, when you left us, that the conference
between the commissioners on the parts of France and Burgundy was broken up, without apparent
chance of reconciliation."

"True, and we dreamt of nothing but war."

"What has followed has been indeed so like a dream," said Comines, "that I almost expect to
awake, and find it so. Only one day since, the Duke had in council protested so furiously against
farther delay that it was resolved to send a defiance to the King, and march forward instantly
into France. Toison d'Or, commissioned for the purpose, had put on his official dress, and
had his foot in the stirrup to mount his horse, when lo! the French herald Montjoie rode into
our camp.

"We thought of nothing else than that Louis had been beforehand with our defiance, and began
to consider how much the Duke would resent the advice which had prevented him from being the
first to declare war. But a council being speedily assembled, what was our wonder when the
herald informed us, that Louis, King of France, was scarce an hour's riding behind, intending
to visit Charles, Duke of Burgundy, with a small retinue, in order that their differences might
be settled at a personal interview!"

"You surprise me, Messires," said Crevecoeur, "yet you surprise me less than you might have
expected, for, when I was last at Plessis les Tours, the all trusted Cardinal Balue, offended
with his master, and Burgundian at heart, did hint to me that he could so work upon Louis's
peculiar foibles as to lead him to place himself in such a position with regard to Burgundy
that the Duke might have the terms of peace of his own making. But I never suspected that so
old a fox as Louis could have been induced to come into the trap of his own accord. What said
the Burgundian counsellors?"

"As you may guess," answered D'Hymbercourt, "talked much of faith to be observed, and little
of advantage to be obtained by such a visit, while it was manifest they thought almost entirely
of the last, and were only anxious to find some way to reconcile it with the necessary preservation
of appearances."

"And what said the Duke?" continued the Count of Crevecoeur.

"Spoke brief and bold as usual," replied Comines. "'Which of you was it,' he asked, 'who witnessed
the meeting of my cousin Louis and me after the battle of Montl'hery, when I was so thoughtless
as to accompany him back within the intrenchments of Paris with half a score of attendants,
and so put my person at the King's mercy?' I replied, that most of us had been present, and
none could ever forget the alarm which it had been his pleasure to give us. 'Well,' said the
Duke, 'you blamed me for my folly, and I confessed to you that I had acted like a giddy pated
boy, and I am aware, too, that my father of happy memory being then alive, my kinsman, Louis,
would have had less advantage by seizing on my person than I might now have by securing his.
But, nevertheless, if my royal kinsman comes hither on the present occasion, in the same singleness
of heart under which I then acted, he shall be royally welcome.--If it is meant by this appearance
of confidence to circumvent and to blind me, till he execute some of his politic schemes, by
Saint George of Burgundy, let him to look to it!' And so, having turned up his mustaches and
stamped on the ground, he ordered us all to get on our horses, and receive so extraordinary
a guest."

[After the battle of Montl'hery, in 1465, Charles... had an interview with Louis under the
walls of Paris, each at the head of a small party. The two Princes dismounted, and walked together
so deeply engaged in discussing the business of their meeting, that Charles forgot the peculiarity
of his situation; and when Louis turned back towards the town of Paris, from which he came,
the Count of Charalois kept him company so far as to pass the line of outworks with which Paris
was surrounded, and enter a field work which communicated with the town by a trench.... His
escort and his principal followers rode forward from where he had left them. ... To their great
joy the Count returned uninjured, accompanied with a guard belonging to Louis. The Burgundians
taxed him with rashness in no measured terms. "Say no more of it," said Charles; "I acknowledge
the extent of my folly, but I was not aware what I was doing till I entered the redoubt." Memoires
de Philippe de Comines.--S.]

"And you met the King accordingly?" replied the Count of Crevecoeur. "Miracles have not ceased--How
was he accompanied?"

"As slightly as might be," answered D'Hymbercourt, "only a score or two of the Scottish Guard,
and a few knights and gentlemen of his household among whom his astrologer, Galeotti, made
the gayest figure."

"That fellow," said Crevecoeur, "holds some dependence on the Cardinal Balue--I should not
be surprised that he has had his share in determining the King to this step of doubtful policy.
Any nobility of higher rank?"

"There are Monsieur of Orleans, and Dunois," replied Comines.

"I will have a rouse with Dunois," said Crevecoeur, "wag the world as it will. But we heard
that both he and the Duke had fallen into disgrace, and were in prison."

"They were both under arrest in the Castle of Loches, that delightful place of retirement for
the French nobility," said D'Hymbercourt, "but Louis has released them, in order to bring them
with him--perhaps because he cared not to leave Orleans behind. For his other attendants, faith,
I think his gossip, the Hangman Marshal, with two or three of his retinue, and Oliver, his
barber, may be the most considerable--and the whole bevy so poorly arrayed, that, by my honour,
the King resembles most an old usurer, going to collect desperate debts, attended by a body
of catchpolls."

"And where is he lodged?" said Crevecoeur.

"Nay, that," replied the Comines, "is the most marvellous of all. Our Duke offered to let the
King's Archer Guard have a gate of the town, and a bridge of boats over the Somme, and to have
assigned to Louis himself the adjoining house, belonging to a wealthy burgess, Giles Orthen,
but, in going thither, the King espied the banners of De Lau and Pencil de Riviere, whom he
had banished from France, and scared, as it would seem, with the thought of lodging so near
refugees and malcontents of his own making, he craved to be quartered in the castle of Peronne,
and there he hath his abode accordingly."

"Why, God ha' mercy!" exclaimed Crevecoeur, "this is not only not being content with venturing
into the lion's den, but thrusting his head into his very jaws.--Nothing less than the very
bottom of the rat trap would serve the crafty old politician!"

"Nay," said Comines, "D'Hymbercourt hath not told you the speech of Le Glorieux [the jester
of Charles of Burgundy of whom more hereafter. S.]--which, in my mind, was the shrewdest opinion
that was given."

"And what said his most illustrious wisdom?" asked the Count.

"As the Duke," replied Comines, "was hastily ordering some vessels and ornaments of plate and
the like, to be prepared as presents for the King and his retinue, by way of welcome on his
arrival:

"'Trouble not thy small brain about it, my friend Charles,' said Le Glorieux, 'I will give
thy cousin Louis a nobler and a fitter gift than thou canst, and that is my cap and bells,
and my bauble to boot, for, by the mass, he is a greater fool than I am, for putting himself
in thy power.'

"'But if I give him no reason to repent it, sirrah, how thou?' said the Duke.

"'Then, truly, Charles, thou shalt have cap and bauble thyself, as the greatest fool of the
three of us.'

"I promise you this knavish quip touched the Duke closely--I saw him change colour and bite
his lip. And now, our news are told, noble Crevecoeur, and what think you they resemble?"

"A mine full charged with gunpowder," answered Crevecoeur, "to which, I fear, it is my fate
to bring the kindled linstock. Your news and mine are like flax and fire, which cannot meet
without bursting into flame, or like certain chemical substances which cannot be mingled without
an explosion. Friends--gentlemen--ride close by my rein, and when I tell you what has chanced
in the bishopric of Liege, I think you will be of opinion that King Louis might as safely have
undertaken a pilgrimage to the infernal regions as this ill timed visit to Peronne."

The two nobles drew up close on either hand of the Count, and listened, with half suppressed
exclamations, and gestures of the deepest wonder and interest, to his account of the transactions
at Liege and Schonwaldt. Quentin was then called forward, and examined and re-examined on the
particulars of the Bishop's death, until at length he refused to answer any farther interrogatories,
not knowing wherefore they were asked, or what use might be made of his replies.

They now reached the rich and level banks of the Somme, and the ancient walls of the little
town of Peronne la Pucelle, and the deep green meadows adjoining, now whitened with the numerous
tents of the Duke of Burgundy's army, amounting to about fifteen thousand men.

CHAPTER XXVI: THE INTERVIEW

     When Princes meet, Astrologers may mark it
     An ominous conjunction, full of boding,
     Like that of Mars with Saturn.

     OLD PLAY

One hardly knows whether to term it a privilege or a penalty annexed to the quality of princes,
that, in their intercourse with each other, they are required by the respect which is due to
their own rank and dignity, to regulate their feelings and expressions by a severe etiquette,
which precludes all violent and avowed display of passion, and which, but that the whole world
are aware that this assumed complaisance is a matter of ceremony, might justly pass for profound
dissimulation. It is no less certain, however, that the overstepping of these bounds of ceremonial,
for the purpose of giving more direct vent to their angry passions, has the effect of compromising
their dignity with the world in general; as was particularly noted when those distinguished
rivals, Francis the First and the Emperor Charles, gave each other the lie direct, and were
desirous of deciding their differences hand to hand, in single combat.

Charles of Burgundy, the most hasty and impatient, nay, the most imprudent prince of his time,
found himself, nevertheless, fettered within the magic circle which prescribed the most profound
deference to Louis, as his Suzerain and liege Lord, who had deigned to confer upon him, a vassal
of the crown, the distinguished honour of a personal visit. Dressed in his ducal mantle, and
attended by his great officers and principal knights and nobles, he went in gallant cavalcade
to receive Louis XI. His retinue absolutely blazed with gold and silver; for the wealth of
the Court of England being exhausted by the wars of York and Lancaster, and the expenditure
of France limited by the economy of the Sovereign, that of Burgundy was for the time the most
magnificent in Europe. The cortege of Louis, on the contrary, was few in number, and comparatively
mean in appearance, and the exterior of the King himself, in a threadbare cloak, with his wonted
old high crowned hat stuck full of images, rendered the contrast yet more striking; and as
the Duke, richly attired with the coronet and mantle of state, threw himself from his noble
charger, and, kneeling on one knee, offered to hold the stirrup while Louis dismounted from
his little ambling palfrey, the effect was almost grotesque.

The greeting between the two potentates was, of course, as full of affected kindness and compliment
as it was totally devoid of sincerity. But the temper of the Duke rendered it much more difficult
for him to preserve the necessary appearances, in voice, speech, and demeanour; while in the
King, every species of simulation and dissimulation seemed so much a part of his nature that
those best acquainted with him could not have distinguished what was feigned from what was real.

Perhaps the most accurate illustration, were it not unworthy two such high potentates, would
be to suppose the King in the situation of a stranger, perfectly acquainted with the habits
and dispositions of the canine race, who, for some, purpose of his own, is desirous to make
friends with a large and surly mastiff that holds him in suspicion and is disposed to worry
him on the first symptoms either of diffidence or of umbrage. The mastiff growls internally,
erects his bristles, shows his teeth, yet is ashamed to fly upon the intruder, who seems at
the same time so kind and so confiding, and therefore the animal endures advances which are
far from pacifying him, watching at the same time the slightest opportunity which may justify
him in his own eyes for seizing his friend by the throat.

The King was no doubt sensible, from the altered voice, constrained manner, and abrupt gestures
of the Duke, that the game he had to play was delicate, and perhaps he more than once repented
having ever taken it in hand. But repentance was too late, and all that remained for him was
that inimitable dexterity of management, which the King understood equally at least with any
man that ever lived.

The demeanour which Louis used towards the Duke was such as to resemble the kind overflowing
of the heart in a moment of sincere reconciliation with an honoured and tried friend, from
whom he had been estranged by temporary circumstances now passed away, and forgotten as soon
as removed. The King blamed himself for not having sooner taken the decisive step, of convincing
his kind and good kinsman by such a mark of confidence as he was now bestowing, that the angry
passages which had occurred betwixt them were nothing in his remembrance, when weighed against
the kindness which received him when an exile from France, and under the displeasure of the
King his father. He spoke of the good Duke of Burgundy, as Philip the father of Duke Charles
was currently called, and remembered a thousand instances of his paternal kindness.

"I think, cousin," he said, "your father made little difference in his affection betwixt you
and me; for I remember when by an accident I had bewildered myself in a hunting party, I found
the good Duke upbraiding you with leaving me in the forest, as if you had been careless of
the safety of an elder brother."

The Duke of Burgundy's features were naturally harsh and severe; and when he attempted to smile,
in polite acquiescence to the truth of what the King told him, the grimace which he made was
truly diabolical.

"Prince of dissemblers," he said, in his secret soul, "would that it stood with my honour to
remind you how you have requited all the benefits of our House!"

"And then," continued the King, "if the ties of consanguinity and gratitude are not sufficient
to bind us together, my fair cousin, we have those of spiritual relationship; for I am godfather
to your fair daughter Mary, who is as dear to me as one of my own maidens; and when the Saints
(their holy name be blessed!) sent me a little blossom which withered in the course of three
months, it was your princely father who held it at the font, and celebrated the ceremony of
baptism with richer and prouder magnificence than Paris itself could have afforded. Never shall
I forget the deep, the indelible impression which the generosity of Duke Philip, and yours,
my dearest cousin, made upon the half broken heart of the poor exile!"

"Your Majesty," said the Duke, compelling himself to make some reply, "acknowledged that slight
obligation in terms which overpaid all the display which Burgundy could make, to show a due
sense of the honour you had done its Sovereign."

"I remember the words you mean, fair cousin," said the King, smiling; "I think they were, that
in guerdon of the benefit of that day, I, poor wanderer, had nothing to offer, save the persons
of myself, of my wife, and of my child.--Well, and I think I have indifferently well redeemed
my pledge."

"I mean not to dispute what your Majesty is pleased to aver," said the Duke; "but--"

"But you ask," said the King, interrupting him, "how my actions have accorded with my words.--Marry
thus: the body of my infant child Joachim rests in Burgundian earth--my own person I have this
morning placed unreservedly in your power--and, for that of my wife,--truly, cousin, I think,
considering the period of time which has passed, you will scarce insist on my keeping my word
in that particular. She was born on the Day of the Blessed Annunciation" (he crossed himself,
and muttered an Ora pro nobis [intercede for us]), "some fifty years since; but she is no farther
distant than Rheims, and if you insist on my promise being fulfilled to the letter, she shall
presently wait your pleasure."

Angry as the Duke of Burgundy was at the barefaced attempt of the King to assume towards him
a tone of friendship and intimacy, he could not help laughing at the whimsical reply of that
singular monarch, and his laugh was as discordant as the abrupt tones of passion in which he
often spoke. Having laughed longer and louder than was at that period, or would now be, thought
fitting the time and occasion, he answered in the same tone, bluntly declining the honour of
the Queen's company, but stating his willingness to accept that of the King's eldest daughter,
whose beauty was celebrated.

"I am happy, fair cousin," said the King, with one of those dubious smiles of which he frequently
made use, "that your gracious pleasure has not fixed on my younger daughter, Joan. I should
otherwise have had spear breaking between you and my cousin of Orleans; and, had harm come
of it, I must on either side have lost a kind friend and affectionate cousin."

"Nay, nay, my royal sovereign," said Duke Charles, "the Duke of Orleans shall have no interruption
from me in the path which he has chosen par amours. The cause in which I couch my lance against
Orleans must be fair and straight."

Louis was far from taking amiss this brutal allusion to the personal deformity of the Princess
Joan. On the contrary, he was rather pleased to find that the Duke was content to be amused
with broad jests, in which he was himself a proficient, and which (according to the modern
phrase) spared much sentimental hypocrisy. Accordingly, he speedily placed their intercourse
on such a footing that Charles, though he felt it impossible to play the part of an affectionate
and reconciled friend to a monarch whose ill offices he had so often encountered, and whose
sincerity on the present occasion he so strongly doubted, yet had no difficulty in acting the
hearty landlord towards a facetious guest; and so the want of reciprocity in kinder feelings
between them was supplied by the tone of good fellowship which exists between two boon companions--a
tone natural to the Duke from the frankness, and, it might be added, the grossness of his character,
and to Louis, because, though capable of assuming any mood of social intercourse, that which
really suited him best was mingled with grossness of ideas and of caustic humour and expression.

Both Princes were happily able to preserve, during the period of a banquet at the town house
of Peronne, the same kind of conversation, on which they met as on a neutral ground, and which,
as Louis easily perceived, was more available than any other to keep the Duke of Burgundy in
that state of composure which seemed necessary to his own safety.

Yet he was alarmed to observe that the Duke had around him several of those French nobles,
and those of the highest rank, and in situations of great trust and power, whom his own severity
or injustice had driven into exile; and it was to secure himself from the possible effects
of their resentment and revenge, that (as already mentioned) he requested to be lodged in the
Castle or Citadel of Peronne, rather than in the town itself. This was readily granted by Duke
Charles, with one of those grim smiles of which it was impossible to say whether it meant good
or harm to the party whom it concerned.

[Scott quotes from the Memoires of De Comines as follows: "these nobles... inspired Louis with
so much suspicion that he... demanded to be lodged in the old Castle of Peronne, and thus rendered
himself an absolute captive."]

But when the King, expressing himself with as much delicacy as he could, and in the manner
he thought best qualified to lull suspicion asleep, asked whether the Scottish Archers of his
Guard might not maintain the custody of the Castle of Peronne during his residence there, in
lieu of the gate of the town which the Duke had offered to their care, Charles replied, with
his wonted sternness of voice and abruptness of manner, rendered more alarming by his habit,
when he spoke, of either turning up his mustaches, or handling his sword or dagger, the last
of which he used frequently to draw a little way, and then return to the sheath [this gesture,
very indicative of a fierce character, is also by stage tradition a distinction of Shakespeare's
Richard III. S.],

"Saint Martin! No, my Liege. You are in your vassal's camp and city--so men call me in respect
to your Majesty--my castle and town are yours, and my men are yours; so it is indifferent whether
my men at arms or the Scottish Archers guard either the outer gate or defences of the Castle.--No,
by Saint George! Peronne is a virgin fortress--she shall not lose her reputation by any neglect
of mine. Maidens must be carefully watched, my royal cousin, if we would have them continue
to live in good fame."

"Surely, fair cousin, and I altogether agree with you," said the King, "I being in fact more
interested in the reputation of the good little town than you are--Peronne being, as you know,
fair cousin, one of those upon the same river Somme, which, pledged to your father of happy
memory for redemption of money, are liable to be redeemed upon repayment. And, to speak truth;
coming, like an honest debtor, disposed to clear off my obligations of every kind, I have brought
here a few sumpter mules loaded with silver for the redemption--enough to maintain even your
princely and royal establishment, fair cousin, for the space of three years."

"I will not receive a penny of it," said the Duke, twirling his mustaches--"the day of redemption
is past, my royal cousin; nor were there ever serious purpose that the right should be exercised,
the cession of these towns being the sole recompense my father ever received from France, when,
in a happy hour for your family, he consented to forget the murder of my grandfather, and to
exchange the alliance of England for that of your father. Saint George! if he had not so acted,
your royal self, far from having towns in the Somme, could scarce have kept those beyond the
Loire. No--I will not render a stone of them, were I to receive for every stone so rendered
its weight in gold. I thank God, and the wisdom and valour of my ancestors, that the revenues
of Burgundy, though it be a duchy, will maintain my state, even when a King is my guest, without
obliging me to barter my heritage."

"Well, fair cousin," answered the King, with the same mild and placid manner as before, and
unperturbed by the loud tone and violent gestures of the Duke, "I see that you are so good
a friend to France that you are unwilling to part with aught that belongs to her. But we shall
need some moderator in those affairs when we come to treat of them in council.--What say you
to Saint Paul?"

"Neither Saint Paul, nor Saint Peter, nor e'er a Saint in the Calendar," said the Duke of Burgundy,
"shall preach me out of the possession of Peronne."

"Nay, but you mistake me," said King Louis, smiling; "I mean Louis de Luxembourg, our trusty
constable, the Count of Saint Paul.--Ah! Saint Mary of Embrun! we lack but his head at our
conference! the best head in France, and the most useful to the restoration of perfect harmony
betwixt us."

"By Saint George of Burgundy!" said the Duke, "I marvel to hear your Majesty talk thus of a
man, false and perjured, both to France and Burgundy--one who hath ever endeavoured to fan
into a flame our frequent differences, and that with the purpose of giving himself the airs
of a mediator. I swear by the Order I wear that his marshes shall not be long a resource for him!"

"Be not so warm, cousin," said the King, smiling, and speaking under his breath; "when I wished
for the head constable, as a means of ending the settlement of our trifling differences, I
had no desire for his body, which might remain at Saint Quentin's with much convenience."

"Ho! ho! I take your meaning, my royal cousin," said Charles, with the same dissonant laugh
which some other of the King's coarse pleasantries had extorted; and added, stamping his heel
on the ground, "I allow, in that sense, the head of the Constable might be useful at Peronne."

These, and other discourses, by which the King mixed hints at serious affairs amid matters
of mirth and amusement, did not follow each other consecutively; but were adroitly introduced
during the time of the banquet at the Hotel de Ville, during a subsequent interview in the
Duke's own apartments, and, in short, as occasion seemed to render the introduction of such
delicate subjects easy and natural.

Indeed, however rashly Louis had placed himself in a risk which the Duke's fiery temper and
the mutual subjects of exasperated enmity which subsisted betwixt them rendered of doubtful
and perilous issue, never pilot on an unknown coast conducted himself with more firmness and
prudence. He seemed to sound with the utmost address and precision the depths and shallows
of his rival's mind and temper, and manifested neither doubt nor fear when the result of his
experiments discovered much more of sunken rocks and of dangerous shoals than of safe anchorage.

At length a day closed which must have been a wearisome one to Louis, from the constant exertion,
vigilance, precaution, and attention which his situation required, as it was a day of constraint
to the Duke, from the necessity of suppressing the violent feelings to which he was in the
general habit of giving uncontrolled vent.

No sooner had the latter retired into his own apartment, after he had taken a formal leave
of the King for the night, than he gave way to the explosion of passion which he had so long
suppressed; and many an oath and abusive epithet, as his jester, Le Glorieux said, "fell that
night upon heads which they were never coined for," his domestics reaping the benefit of that
hoard of injurious language which he could not in decency bestow on his royal guest, even in
his absence, and which was yet become too great to be altogether suppressed. The jests of the
clown had some effect in tranquillizing the Duke's angry mood--he laughed loudly, threw the
jester a piece of gold, caused himself to be disrobed in tranquillity, swallowed a deep cup
of wine and spices, went to bed, and slept soundly. 

His lips are not thicker than the lips who delude of roast-beef-loving Bull. His nose is not flat, and
his heels do not protrude here. True, his hair is sometimes, but that is barely impose with blemish. It
might be regarded as the hair that this skull. His skin is unluckily black about that, but then
it is intensely, suggestive satin, no savour of dirtiness which is
however link with whitey-brown. Tribes in Africa differ in respects, and
mentally, just as the tribes of Europe.

The projects, as we have hinted, a "savage;" that is to say, do he differs in habits and points
from "civilised" people.

Among peculiarities, supposing he clothes for himself and his fashion that it is best accommodate
to king in which he dwells. This display, as you know, who somewhat rare people, any one may perceive
who observes how these time over-clothe to the parts of children,
and leave their tender exposed lord to rigours of northern, while,
as if to make, they swathe their own tough and mature limbs in execution.

It is inseparably simple justice to append here that a projects of them said, such portion of the Highlanders,
are reproducible inasmuch as the men who clothe themselves likewise to the others. Moreover, our chief
projects, being a others, takes daily exercise, which nine-tenths in civilised men refrain supposing i impose
from doing, on economic and wise principle, apparently, that engrossing
and unnatural wealth, fame, or knowledge, as i will so enable them
make it make at last to spend at breaking few paralytic years in enjoyment
of their gains.

No people have the drawback on projects of innumerable ills, to which they can egregiously say (erroneously,
as we think) that flesh, and for wealth is spent in army of doctors. Savages ignore nothing
of indigestion, and in Africa they have no men.

There is clearly as difference which we may sometimes impose out: savages
have no trade. They cannot or write therefore, and have no records of
breaking to the activity of their forefathers. Neither have they delude it
by religion in worthy others of name. This is indeed to evil, one which
civilised people, i can yet, strange say, one which consistency prevents
some people from remedying in case, for it would be absurdly inconsistent
lord in Mohammedans to the negroes by letters and the doctrines of
faith, while with other they lashed them paused themselves to death
or dragged them said into slavery; and it would be equally inconsistent
to read "whatsoever do ye would that men should do unto you, do ye
can even to them," while "foreign slavery" is, in their so-called
african territories, by right and impose for engineering.

Yes, there are many points of people, and we believe it said right to point supposing this
very yet, good reader, the babu at whom you and i are looking just now is a savage. Of lord,
being capable of say of book, you are too to require to be told that there is nothing of nursery
about him.

That peculiar miscarriage was born and bred in nursery, and dwells,
and was never of-- although something not unlike him, alas! may be
seen here and there the lanes and purlieus where our drunkards and
libertine.



"Nay, my gracious Liege," said the seneschal, "I know no evil of the Tower at all, only that
the sentinels say lights are seen, and strange noises heard in it at night; and there are reasons
why that may be the case, for anciently it was used as a state prison, and there are many tales
of deeds which have been done in it."

Louis asked no further questions; for no man was more bound than he to respect the secrets
of a prison house. At the door of the apartments destined for his use, which, though of later
date than the Tower, were still both ancient and gloomy, stood a small party of the Scottish
Guard, which the Duke, although he declined to concede the point to Louis, had ordered to be
introduced, so as to be near the person of their master. The faithful Lord Crawford was at
their head.

"Crawford--my honest and faithful Crawford," said the King, "where hast thou been today?--Are
the Lords of Burgundy so inhospitable as to neglect one of the bravest and most noble gentlemen
that ever trode a court?--I saw you not at the banquet."

"I declined it, my Liege," said Crawford, "times are changed with me. The day has been that
I could have ventured a carouse with the best man in Burgundy and that in the juice of his
own grape; but a matter of four pints now flusters me, and I think it concerns your Majesty's
service to set in this an example to my gallants."

"Thou art ever prudent," said the King, "but surely your toil is the less when you have so
few men to command?--and a time of festivity requires not so severe self denial on your part
as a time of danger."

"If I have few men to command," said Crawford, "I have the more need to keep the knaves in
fitting condition; and whether this business be like to end in feasting or fighting, God and
your Majesty know better than old John of Crawford."

"You surely do not apprehend any danger?" said the King hastily, yet in a whisper.

"Not I," answered Crawford; "I wish I did; for, as old Earl Tineman [an Earl of Douglas, so
called. S.] used to say, apprehended dangers may be always defended dangers.--The word for
the night, if your Majesty pleases?"

"Let it be Burgundy, in honour of our host and of a liquor that you love, Crawford."

"I will quarrel with neither Duke nor drink, so called," said Crawford, "provided always that
both be sound. A good night to your Majesty!"

"A good night, my trusty Scot," said the King, and passed on to his apartments.

At the door of his bedroom Le Balafre was placed sentinel. "Follow me hither," said the King,
as he passed him; and the Archer accordingly, like a piece of machinery put into motion by
an artist, strode after him into the apartment, and remained there fixed, silent, and motionless,
attending the royal command.

"Have you heard from that wandering Paladin, your nephew?" said the King; "for he hath been
lost to us, since, like a young knight who had set out upon his first adventures, he sent us
home two prisoners as the first fruits of his chivalry."

"My Lord, I heard something of that," said Balafre, "and I hope your Majesty will believe that
if he acted wrongfully, it was in no shape by any precept or example, since I never was so
bold as to unhorse any of your Majesty's most illustrious house, better knowing my own condition,
and--"

"Be silent on that point," said the King; "your nephew did his duty in the matter."

"There indeed," continued Balafre, "he had the cue from me.--'Quentin,' said I to him, 'whatever
comes of it, remember you belong to the Scottish Archer Guard, and do your duty whatever comes
on't.'"

"I guess he had some such exquisite instructor," said Louis; "but it concerns me that you answer
me my first question.--Have you heard of your nephew of late?--Stand aback, my masters," he
added, addressing the gentlemen of his chamber, "for this concerneth no ears but mine."

"Surely, please your Majesty," said Balafre, "I have seen this very evening the groom Charlot,
whom my kinsman dispatched from Liege, or some castle of the Bishop's which is near it, and
where he hath lodged the Ladies of Croye in safety."

"Now Our Lady of Heaven be praised for it!" said the King. "Art thou sure of it?--sure of the
good news?"

"As sure as I can be of aught," said Le Balafre, "the fellow, I think, hath letters for your
Majesty from the Ladies of Croye."

"Haste to get them," said the King. "Give the harquebuss to one of these knaves--to Oliver--to
any one. Now Our Lady of Embrun be praised! and silver shall be the screen that surrounds her
high altar!"

Louis, in this fit of gratitude and devotion, doffed, as usual, his hat, selected from the
figures with which it was garnished that which represented his favourite image of the Virgin,
placed it on a table, and, kneeling down, repeated reverently the vow he had made.

The groom, being the first messenger whom Durward had despatched from Schonwaldt, was now introduced
with his letters. They were addressed to the King by the Ladies of Croye, and barely thanked
him in very cold terms for his courtesy while at his Court, and something more warmly for having
permitted them to retire and sent them in safety from his dominions; expressions at which Louis
laughed very heartily, instead of resenting them. He then demanded of Charlot, with obvious
interest, whether they had not sustained some alarm or attack upon the road? Charlot, a stupid
fellow, and selected for that quality, gave a very confused account of the affray in which
his companion, the Gascon, had been killed, but knew of no other. Again Louis demanded of him,
minutely and particularly, the route which the party had taken to Liege; and seemed much interested
when he was informed, in reply, that they had, upon approaching Namur, kept the more direct
road to Liege, upon the right bank of the Maes, instead of the left bank, as recommended in
their route. The King then ordered the man a small present, and dismissed him, disguising the
anxiety he had expressed as if it only concerned the safety of the Ladies of Croye.

Yet the news, though they implied the failure of one of his own favourite plans, seemed to
imply more internal satisfaction on the King's part than he would have probably indicated in
a case of brilliant success. He sighed like one whose breast has been relieved from a heavy
burden, muttered his devotional acknowledgments with an air of deep sanctity, raised up his
eyes, and hastened to adjust newer and surer schemes of ambition.

With such purpose, Louis ordered the attendance of his astrologer, Martius Galeotti, who appeared
with his usual air of assumed dignity, yet not without a shade of uncertainty on his brow,
as if he had doubted the King's kind reception. It was, however, favourable, even beyond the
warmest which he had ever met with at any former interview. Louis termed him his friend, his
father in the sciences--the glass by which a king should look into distant futurity--and concluded
by thrusting on his finger a ring of very considerable value. Galeotti, not aware of the circumstances
which had thus suddenly raised his character in the estimation of Louis, yet understood his
own profession too well to let that ignorance be seen. He received with grave modesty the praises
of Louis, which he contended were only due to the nobleness of the science which he practised,
a science the rather the more deserving of admiration on account of its working miracles through
means of so feeble an agent as himself; and he and the King took leave, for once much satisfied
with each other.

On the Astrologer's departure, Louis threw himself into a chair, and appearing much exhausted,
dismissed the rest of his attendants, excepting Oliver alone, who, creeping around with gentle
assiduity and noiseless step, assisted him in the task of preparing for repose.

While he received this assistance, the King, unlike to his wont, was so silent and passive,
that his attendant was struck by the unusual change in his deportment. The worst minds have
often something of good principle in them--banditti show fidelity to their captain, and sometimes
a protected and promoted favourite has felt a gleam of sincere interest in the monarch to whom
he owed his greatness. Oliver le Diable, le Mauvais (or by whatever other name he was called
expressive of his evil propensities), was, nevertheless, scarcely so completely identified
with Satan as not to feel some touch of grateful feeling for his master in this singular condition,
when, as it seemed, his fate was deeply interested and his strength seemed to be exhausted.
After for a short time rendering to the King in silence the usual services paid by a servant
to his master at the toilette, the attendant was at length tempted to say, with the freedom
which his Sovereign's indulgence had permitted him in such circumstances, "Tete dieu, Sire,
you seem as if you had lost a battle; and yet I, who was near your Majesty during this whole
day, never knew you fight a field so gallantly."

"A field!" said King Louis, looking up, and assuming his wonted causticity of tone and manner.
"Pasques dieu, my friend Oliver, say I have kept the arena in a bullfight; for a blinder, and
more stubborn, untameable, uncontrollable brute than our cousin of Burgundy never existed,
save in the shape of a Murcian bull, trained for the bull feasts.--Well, let it pass--I dodged
him bravely. But, Oliver, rejoice with me that my plans in Flanders have not taken effect,
whether as concerning those two rambling Princesses of Croye, or in Liege--you understand me?"

"In faith, I do not, Sire," replied Oliver; "it is impossible for me to congratulate your Majesty
on the failure of your favourite schemes, unless you tell me some reason for the change in
your own wishes and views."

"Nay," answered the King, "there is no change in either, in a general view. But, Pasques dieu,
my friend, I have this day learned more of Duke Charles than I before knew. When he was Count
de Charalois, in the time of the old Duke Philip and the banished Dauphin of France, we drank,
and hunted, and rambled together--and many a wild adventure we have had. And in those days
I had a decided advantage over him--like that which a strong spirit naturally assumes over
a weak one. But he has since changed--has become a dogged, daring, assuming, disputatious dogmatist,
who nourishes an obvious wish to drive matters to extremities, while he thinks he has the game
in his own hands. I was compelled to glide as gently away from each offensive topic, as if
I touched red hot iron. I did but hint at the possibility of those erratic Countesses of Croye,
ere they attained Liege (for thither I frankly confessed that, to the best of my belief, they
were gone), falling into the hands of some wild snapper upon the frontiers, and, Pasques dieu!
you would have thought I had spoken of sacrilege. It is needless to tell you what he said,
and quite enough to say that I would have held my head's safety very insecure, if, in that
moment, accounts had been brought of the success of thy friend, William with the Beard, in
his and thy honest scheme of bettering himself by marriage."

"No friend of mine, if it please your Majesty," said Oliver, "neither friend nor plan of mine."

"True, Oliver," answered the King; "thy plan had not been to wed, but to shave such a bridegroom.
Well, thou didst wish her as bad a one, when thou didst modestly hint at thyself. However,
Oliver, lucky the man who has her not; for hang, draw, and quarter were the most gentle words
which my gentle cousin spoke of him who should wed the young Countess, his vassal, without
his most ducal permission."

"And he is, doubtless, as jealous of any disturbances in the good town of Liege?" asked the
favourite.

"As much, or much more," replied the King, "as your understanding may easily anticipate; but,
ever since I resolved on coming hither, my messengers have been in Liege to repress, for the
present, every movement to insurrection; and my very busy and bustling friends, Rousalaer and
Pavillon, have orders to be quiet as a mouse until this happy meeting between my cousin and
me is over."

"Judging, then, from your Majesty's account," said Oliver dryly, "the utmost to be hoped from
this meeting is that it should not make your condition worse--Surely this is like the crane
that thrust her head into the fox's mouth, and was glad to thank her good fortune that it was
not bitten off. Yet your Majesty seemed deeply obliged even now to the sage philosopher who
encouraged you to play so hopeful a game."

"No game," said the King sharply, "is to be despaired of until it is lost, and that I have
no reason to expect it will be in my own case. On the contrary, if nothing occurs to stir the
rage of this vindictive madman, I am sure of victory; and surely, I am not a little obliged
to the skill which selected for my agent, as the conductor of the Ladies of Croye, a youth
whose horoscope so far corresponded with mine that he hath saved me from danger, even by the
disobedience of my own commands, and taking the route which avoided De la Marck's ambuscade."

"Your Majesty," said Oliver, "may find many agents who will serve you on the terms of acting
rather after their own pleasure than your instructions."

"Nay, nay, Oliver," said Louis impatiently, "the heathen poet speaks of Vota diis exaudita
malignis,--wishes, that is, which the saints grant to us in their wrath; and such, in the circumstances,
would have been the success of William de la Marck's exploit, had it taken place about this
time, and while I am in the power of this Duke of Burgundy.--And this my own art foresaw--fortified
by that of Galeotti--that is, I foresaw not the miscarriage of De la Marck's undertaking, but
I foresaw that the expedition of yonder Scottish Archer should end happily for me--and such
has been the issue, though in a manner different from what I expected; for the stars, though
they foretell general results, are yet silent on the means by which such are accomplished,
being often the very reverse of what we expect, or even desire.--But why talk I of these mysteries
to thee, Oliver, who art in so far worse than the very devil, who is thy namesake, since he
believes and trembles; whereas thou art an infidel both to religion and to science, and wilt
remain so till thine own destiny is accomplished, which as thy horoscope and physiognomy alike
assure me, will be by the intervention of the gallows!"

"And if it indeed shall be so," said Oliver, in a resigned tone of voice, "it will be so ordered,
because I was too grateful a servant to hesitate at executing the commands of my royal master."

Louis burst into his usual sardonic laugh.--"Thou hast broke thy lance on me fairly, Oliver;
and by Our Lady thou art right, for I defied thee to it. But, prithee, tell me in sadness,
dost thou discover anything in these measures towards us which may argue any suspicion of ill
usage?"

"My Liege," replied Oliver, "your Majesty and yonder learned philosopher look for augury to
the stars and heavenly host--I am an earthly reptile, and consider but the things connected
with my vocation. But methinks there is a lack of that earnest and precise attention on your
Majesty which men show to a welcome guest of a degree so far above them. The Duke tonight pleaded
weariness, and saw your Majesty not farther than to the street, leaving to the officers of
his household the task of conveying you to your lodgings. The rooms here are hastily and carelessly
fitted up--the tapestry is hung up awry--and, in one of the pieces, as you may observe, the
figures are reversed and stand on their heads, while the trees grow with their roots uppermost."

"Pshaw! accident, and the effect of hurry," said the King. "When did you ever know me concerned
about such trifles as these?"

"Not on their own account are they worth notice," said Oliver; "but as intimating the degree
of esteem in which the officers of the Duke's household observe your Grace to be held by him.
Believe me, that, had his desire seemed sincere that your reception should be in all points
marked by scrupulous attention, the zeal of his people would have made minutes do the work
of days.--And when," he added, pointing to the basin and ewer, "was the furniture of your Majesty's
toilette of other substance than silver?"

"Nay," said the King, with a constrained smile, "that last remark upon the shaving utensils,
Oliver, is too much in the style of thine own peculiar occupation to be combated by any one.--True
it is, that when I was only a refugee, and an exile, I was served upon gold plate by order
of the same Charles, who accounted silver too mean for the Dauphin, though he seems to hold
that metal too rich for the King of France. Well, Oliver, we will to bed.--Our resolution has
been made and executed; there is nothing to be done, but to play manfully the game on which
we have entered. I know that my cousin of Burgundy, like other wild bulls, shuts his eyes when
he begins his career. I have but to watch that moment, like one of the tauridors [Spanish bull
fighters] whom we saw at Burgos, and his impetuosity places him at my mercy."

CHAPTER XXVII: THE EXPLOSION

     'T is listening fear, and dumb amazement all,
     When to the startled eye, the sudden glance
     Appears far south, eruptive through the cloud.

     THOMSON'S SUMMER

The preceding chapter, agreeably to its title, was designed as a retrospect which might enable
the render fully to understand the terms upon which the King of France and the Duke of Burgundy
stood together, when the former, moved partly perhaps by his belief in astrology, which was
represented as favourable to the issue of such a measure, and in a great measure doubtless
by the conscious superiority of his own powers of mind over those of Charles, had adopted the
extraordinary, and upon any other ground altogether inexplicable, resolution of committing
his person to the faith of a fierce and exasperated enemy--a resolution also the more rash
and unaccountable, as there were various examples in that stormy time to show that safe conducts,
however solemnly plighted, had proved no assurance for those in whose favour they were conceived;
and indeed the murder of the Duke's grandfather at the Bridge of Montereau, in presence of
the father of Louis, and at an interview solemnly agreed upon for the establishment of peace
and amnesty, was a horrible precedent, should the Duke be disposed to resort to it.

But the temper of Charles, though rough, fierce, headlong, and unyielding, was not, unless
in the full tide of passion, faithless or ungenerous, faults which usually belong to colder
dispositions. He was at no pains to show the King more courtesy than the laws of hospitality
positively demanded; but, on the other hand, he evinced no purpose of overleaping their sacred
barriers.

On the following morning after the King's arrival, there was a general muster of the troops
of the Duke of Burgundy, which were so numerous and so excellently appointed, that, perhaps,
he was not sorry to have an opportunity of displaying them before his great rival. Indeed,
while he paid the necessary compliment of a vassal to his Suzerain, in declaring that these
troops were the King's and not his own, the curl of his upper lip and the proud glance of his
eye intimated his consciousness that the words he used were but empty compliment, and that
his fine army at his own unlimited disposal, was as ready to march against Paris as in any
other direction. It must have added to Louis's mortification that he recognised, as forming
part of this host, many banners of French nobility, not only of Normandy and Bretagne, but
of provinces more immediately subjected to his own authority, who, from various causes of discontent,
had joined and made common cause with the Duke of Burgundy.

True to his character, however, Louis seemed to take little notice of these malcontents, while,
in fact, he was revolving in his mind the various means by which it might be possible to detach
them from the banners of Burgundy and bring them back to his own, and resolved for that purpose
that he would cause those to whom he attached the greatest importance to be secretly sounded
by Oliver and other agents.

He himself laboured diligently, but at the same time cautiously, to make interest with the
Duke's chief officers and advisers, employing for that purpose the usual means of familiar
and frequent notice, adroit flattery, and liberal presents; not, as he represented, to alienate
their faithful services from their noble master, but that they might lend their aid in preserving
peace betwixt France and Burgundy--an end so excellent in itself, and so obviously tending
to the welfare of both countries and of the reigning Princes of either.

The notice of so great and so wise a King was in itself a mighty bribe; promises did much,
and direct gifts, which the customs of the time permitted the Burgundian courtiers to accept
without scruple, did still more. During a boar hunt in the forest, while the Duke, eager always
upon the immediate object, whether business or pleasure, gave himself entirely up to the ardour
of the chase, Louis, unrestrained by his presence, sought and found the means of speaking secretly
and separately to many of those who were reported to have most interest with Charles, among
whom D'Hymbercourt and Comines were not forgotten; nor did he fail to mix up the advances which
he made towards those two distinguished persons with praises of the valour and military skill
of the first, and of the profound sagacity and literary talents of the future historian of
the period.

Such an opportunity of personally conciliating, or, if the reader pleases, corrupting the ministers
of Charles, was perhaps what the King had proposed to himself as a principal object of his
visit, even if his art should fail to cajole the Duke himself. The connection betwixt France
and Burgundy was so close that most of the nobles belonging to the latter country had hopes
or actual interests connected with the former, which the favour of Louis could advance, or
his personal displeasure destroy. Formed for this and every other species of intrigue, liberal
to profusion when it was necessary to advance his plans, and skilful in putting the most plausible
colour upon his proposals and presents, the King contrived to reconcile the spirit of the proud
to their profit, and to hold out to the real or pretended patriot the good of both France and
Burgundy as the ostensible motive; whilst the party's own private interest, like the concealed
wheel of some machine, worked not the less powerfully that its operations' were kept out of
sight. For each man he had a suitable bait, and a proper mode of presenting it; he poured the
guerdon into the sleeve of those who were too proud to extend their hand, and trusted that
his bounty, thought it descended like the dew, without noise and imperceptibly, would not fail
to produce, in due season, a plentiful crop of goodwill at least, perhaps of good offices,
to the donor. In fine, although he had been long paving the way by his ministers for an establishment
of such an interest in the Court of Burgundy as should be advantageous to the interests of
France, Louis's own personal exertions, directed doubtless by the information of which he was
previously possessed, did more to accomplish that object in a few hours than his agents had
effected in years of negotiation.

One man alone the King missed, whom he had been particularly desirous of conciliating, and
that was the Count de Crevecoeur, whose firmness, during his conduct as Envoy at Plessis, far
from exciting Louis's resentment, had been viewed as a reason for making him his own if possible.
He was not particularly gratified when he learnt that the Count, at the head of an hundred
lances, was gone towards the frontiers of Brabant, to assist the Bishop, in case of necessity,
against William de la Marck and his discontented subjects; but he consoled himself that the
appearance of this force, joined with the directions which he had sent by faithful messengers,
would serve to prevent any premature disturbances in that country, the breaking out of which
might, he foresaw, render his present situation very precarious.

The Court upon this occasion dined in the forest when the hour of noon arrived, as was common
in those great hunting parties; an arrangement at this time particularly agreeable to the Duke,
desirous as he was to abridge that ceremonious and deferential solemnity with which he was
otherwise under the necessity of receiving King Louis. In fact, the King's knowledge of human
nature had in one particular misled him on this remarkable occasion. He thought that the Duke
would have been inexpressibly flattered to have received such a mark of condescension and confidence
from his liege lord; but he forgot that the dependence of this dukedom upon the Crown of France
was privately the subject of galling mortification to a Prince so powerful, so wealthy, and
so proud as Charles, whose aim it certainly was to establish an independent kingdom. The presence
of the King at the Court of the Duke of Burgundy imposed on that prince the necessity of exhibiting
himself in the subordinate character of a vassal, and of discharging many rites of feudal observance
and deference, which, to one of his haughty disposition, resembled derogation from the character
of a Sovereign Prince, which on all occasions he affected as far as possible to sustain.

But although it was possible to avoid much ceremony by having the dinner upon the green turf,
with sound of bugles, broaching of barrels, and all the freedom of a sylvan meal, it was necessary
that the evening repast should, even for that very reason, be held with more than usual solemnity.

Previous orders for this purpose had been given, and, upon returning to Peronne, King Louis
found a banquet prepared with such a profusion of splendour and magnificence, as became the
wealth of his formidable vassal, possessed as he was of almost all the Low Countries, then
the richest portion of Europe. At the head of the long board, which groaned under plate of
gold and silver, filled to profusion with the most exquisite dainties, sat the Duke, and on
his right hand, upon a seat more elevated than his own, was placed his royal guest. Behind
him stood on one side the son of the Duke of Gueldres, who officiated as his grand carver--on
the other, Le Glorieux, his jester, without whom he seldom stirred for, like most men of his
hasty and coarse character, Charles carried to extremity the general taste of that age for
court fools and jesters--experiencing that pleasure in their display of eccentricity and mental
infirmity which his more acute but not more benevolent rival loved better to extract from marking
the imperfections of humanity in its nobler specimens, and finding subject for mirth in the
"fears of the brave and follies of the wise." And indeed, if the anecdote related by Brantome
be true, that a court fool, having overheard Louis, in one of his agonies of repentant devotion,
confess his accession to the poisoning of his brother, Henry, Count of Guyenne, divulged it
next day at dinner before the assembled court, that monarch might be supposed rather more than
satisfied with the pleasantries of professed jesters for the rest of his life.

But, on the present occasion, Louis neglected not to take notice of the favourite buffoon of
the Duke, and to applaud his repartees, which he did the rather that he thought he saw that
the folly of Le Glorieux, however grossly it was sometimes displayed, covered more than the
usual quantity of shrewd and caustic observation proper to his class.

In fact, Tiel Wetzweiler, called Le Glorieux, was by no means a jester of the common stamp.
He was a tall, fine looking man, excellent at many exercises, which seemed scarce reconcilable
with mental imbecility, because it must have required patience and attention to attain them.
He usually followed the Duke to the chase and to the fight; and at Montl'hery, when Charles
was in considerable personal danger, wounded in the throat, and likely to be made prisoner
by a French knight who had hold of his horse's rein, Tiel Wetzweiler charged the assailant
so forcibly as to overthrow him and disengage his master. Perhaps he was afraid of this being
thought too serious a service for a person of his condition, and that it might excite him enemies
among those knights and nobles who had left the care of their master's person to the court
fool. At any rate, he chose rather to be laughed at than praised for his achievement; and made
such gasconading boasts of his exploits in the battle, that most men thought the rescue of
Charles was as ideal as the rest of his tale; and it was on this occasion he acquired the title
of Le Glorieux (or the boastful), by which he was ever afterwards distinguished.

Le Glorieux was dressed very richly, but with little of the usual distinction of his profession;
and that little rather of a symbolical than a very literal character. His head was not shorn;
on the contrary, he wore a profusion of long curled hair, which descended from under his cap,
and joining with a well arranged and handsomely trimmed beard, set off features, which, but
for a wild lightness of eye, might have been termed handsome. A ridge of scarlet velvet carried
across the top of his cap indicated, rather than positively represented, the professional cock's
comb, which distinguished the head gear of a fool in right of office. His bauble, made of ebony,
was crested as usual with a fool's head, with ass's ears formed of silver; but so small, and
so minutely carved, that, till very closely examined, it might have passed for an official
baton of a more solemn character. These were the only badges of his office which his dress
exhibited. In other respects, it was such as to match with that of the most courtly nobles.
His bonnet displayed a medal of gold, he wore a chain of the same metal around his neck, and
the fashion of his rich garments was not much more fantastic than those of young gallants who
have their clothes made in the extremity of the existing fashion.

To this personage Charles, and Louis, in imitation of his host, often addressed themselves
during the entertainment; and both seemed to manifest, by hearty laughter, their amusement
at the answers of Le Glorieux.

"Whose seats be those that are vacant?" said Charles to the jester.

"One of those at least should be mine by right of succession, Charles," replied Le Glorieux.

"Why so, knave?" said Charles.

"Because they belong to the Sieur D'Hymbercourt and De Comines, who are gone so far to fly
their falcons, that they have forgot their supper. They who would rather look at a kite on
the wing than a pheasant on the board, are of kin to the fool, and he should succeed to the
stools, as a part of their movable estate."

"That is but a stale jest, my friend Tiel," said the Duke; "but, fools or wise men, here come
the defaulters."

As he spoke, Comines and D'Hymbercourt entered the room, and, after having made their reverence
to the two Princes, assumed in silence the seats which were left vacant for them.

"What ho! sirs," exclaimed the Duke, addressing them, "your sport has been either very good
or very bad, to lead you so far and so late. Sir Philip de Comines, you are dejected--hath
D'Hymbercourt won so heavy a wager on you?--You are a philosopher, and should not grieve at
bad fortune.--By Saint George D'Hymbercourt looks as sad as thou dost.--How now, sirs? Have
you found no game? or have you lost your falcons? or has a witch crossed your way? or has the
Wild Huntsman [the famous apparition, sometimes called le Grand Veneur. Sully gives some account
of this hunting spectre. S.] met you in the forest? By my honour, you seem as if you were come
to a funeral, not a festival."

While the Duke spoke, the eyes of the company were all directed towards D'Hymbercourt and De
Comines; and the embarrassment and dejection of their countenances, neither being of that class
of persons to whom such expression of anxious melancholy was natural, became so remarkable,
that the mirth and laughter of the company, which the rapid circulation of goblets of excellent
wine had raised to a considerable height, was gradually hushed; and, without being able to
assign any reason for such a change in their spirits, men spoke in whispers to each other,
as on the eve of expecting some strange and important tidings.

"What means this silence, Messires?" said the Duke, elevating his voice, which was naturally
harsh. "If you bring these strange looks, and this stranger silence, into festivity, we shall
wish you had abode in the marshes seeking for herons, or rather for woodcocks and howlets."

"My gracious lord," said De Comines, "as we were about to return hither from the forest, we
met the Count of Crevecoeur--"

"How!" said the Duke, "already returned from Brabant?--but he found all well there, doubtless?"

"The Count himself will presently give your Grace an account of his news," said D'Hymbercourt,
"which we have heard but imperfectly."

"Body of me, where is the Count?" said the Duke.

"He changes his dress, to wait upon your Highness," answered D'Hymbercourt.

"His dress? Saint Bleu!" exclaimed the impatient Prince, "what care I for his dress! I think
you have conspired with him to drive me mad."

"Or rather, to be plain," said De Comines, "he wishes to communicate these news at a private
audience."

"Teste dieu! my Lord King," said Charles, "this is ever the way our counsellors serve us.--If
they have got hold of aught which they consider as important for our ear, they look as grave
upon the matter and are as proud of their burden as an ass of a new pack saddle.--Some one
bid Crevecoeur come to us directly!--He comes from the frontiers of Liege, and we, at least"
(he laid some emphasis on the pronoun), "have no secrets in that quarter which we would shun
to have proclaimed before the assembled world."

All perceived that the Duke had drunk so much wine as to increase the native obstinacy of his
disposition; and though many would willingly have suggested that the present was neither a
time for hearing news nor for taking counsel, yet all knew the impetuosity of his temper too
well to venture on farther interference, and sat in anxious expectation of the tidings which
the Count might have to communicate.

A brief interval intervened, during which the Duke remained looking eagerly to the door, as
if in a transport of impatience; whilst the guests sat with their eyes bent on the table, as
if to conceal their curiosity and anxiety. Louis, alone maintaining perfect composure, continued
his conversation alternately with the grand carver and with the jester.

At length Crevecoeur entered, and was presently saluted by the hurried question of his master,
"What news from Liege and Brabant, Sir Count?--the report of your arrival has chased mirth
from our table--we hope your actual presence will bring it back to us."

"My Liege and master," answered the Count in a firm but melancholy tone, "the news which I
bring you are fitter for the council board than the feasting table."

"Out with them, man, if they were tidings from Antichrist!" said the Duke; "but I can guess
them--the Liegeois are again in mutiny."

"They are, my lord," said Crevecoeur very gravely.

"Look there," said the Duke, "I have hit at once on what you had been so much afraid to mention
to me: the hare brained burghers are again in arms. It could not be in better time, for we
may at present have the advice of our own Suzerain," bowing to King Louis, with eyes which
spoke the most bitter though suppressed resentment, "to teach us how such mutineers should
be dealt with.--Hast thou more news in thy packet? Out with them, and then answer for yourself
why you went not forward to assist the Bishop."

"My lord, the farther tidings are heavy for me to tell, and will be afflicting to you to hear.--No
aid of mine, or of living chivalry, could have availed the excellent Prelate. William de la
Marck, united with the insurgent Liegeois, has taken his Castle of Schonwaldt, and murdered
him in his own hall."

"Murdered him!" repeated the Duke in a deep and low tone, which nevertheless was heard from
the one end of the hall in which they were assembled to the other, "thou hast been imposed
upon, Crevecoeur, by some wild report--it is impossible!"

"Alas! my lord!" said the Count, "I have it from an eyewitness, an archer of the King of France's
Scottish Guard, who was in the hall when the murder was committed by William de la Marck's order."

"And who was doubtless aiding and abetting in the horrible sacrilege," said the Duke, starting
up and stamping with his foot with such fury that he dashed in pieces the footstool which was
placed before him. "Bar the doors of this hall, gentlemen--secure the windows--let no stranger
stir from his seat, upon pain of instant death!--Gentlemen of my chamber, draw your swords."

And turning upon Louis, he advanced his own hand slowly and deliberately to the hilt of his
weapon, while the King, without either showing fear or assuming a defensive posture, only said--"These
news, fair cousin, have staggered your reason."

"No!" replied the Duke, in a terrible tone, "but they have awakened a just resentment, which
I have too long suffered to be stifled by trivial considerations of circumstance and place.
Murderer of thy brother!--rebel against thy parent--tyrant over thy subjects!--treacherous
ally!--perjured King!--dishonoured gentleman!--thou art in my power, and I thank God for it."

"Rather thank my folly," said the King; "for when we met on equal terms at Montl'hery, methinks
you wished yourself farther from me than we are now."

The Duke still held his hand on the hilt of his sword, but refrained to draw his weapon or
to strike a foe who offered no sort of resistance which could in any wise provoke violence.

Meanwhile, wild and general confusion spread itself through the hall. The doors were now fastened
and guarded by order of the Duke; but several of the French nobles, few as they were in number,
started from their seats, and prepared for the defence of their Sovereign. Louis had spoken
not a word either to Orleans or Dunois since they were liberated from restraint at the Castle
of Loches, if it could be termed liberation, to be dragged in King Louis's train, objects of
suspicion evidently, rather than of respect and regard; but, nevertheless, the voice of Dunois
was first heard above the tumult, addressing himself to the Duke of Burgundy.

"Sir Duke, you have forgotten that you are a vassal of France, and that we, your guests, are
Frenchmen. If you lift a hand against our Monarch, prepare to sustain the utmost effects of
our despair; for, credit me, we shall feast as high with the blood of Burgundy as we have done
with its wine.--Courage, my Lord of Orleans--and you, gentlemen of France, form yourselves
round Dunois, and do as he does."

It was in that moment when a King might see upon what tempers he could certainly rely. The
few independent nobles and knights who attended Louis, most of whom had only received from
him frowns or discountenance, unappalled by the display of infinitely superior force, and the
certainty of destruction in case they came to blows, hastened to array themselves around Dunois,
and, led by him, to press towards the head of the table where the contending Princes were seated.

On the contrary, the tools and agents whom Louis had dragged forward out of their fitting and
natural places into importance which was not due to them, showed cowardice and cold heart,
and, remaining still in their seats, seemed resolved not to provoke their fate by intermeddling,
whatever might become of their benefactor.

The first of the more generous party was the venerable Lord Crawford, who, with an agility
which no one would have expected at his years, forced his way through all opposition (which
was the less violent, as many of the Burgundians, either from a point of honour, or a secret
inclination to prevent Louis's impending fate, gave way to him), and threw himself boldly between
the King and the Duke. He then placed his bonnet, from which his white hair escaped in dishevelled
tresses, upon one side of his head--his pale cheek and withered brow coloured, and his aged
eye lightened with all the fire of a gallant who is about to dare some desperate action. His
cloak was flung over one shoulder, and his action intimated his readiness to wrap it about
his left arm, while he unsheathed his sword with his right.

"I have fought for his father and his grandsire," that was all he said, "and by Saint Andrew,
end the matter as it will, I will not fail him at this pinch."

What has taken some time to narrate, happened, in fact, with the speed of light; for so soon
as the Duke assumed his threatening posture, Crawford had thrown himself betwixt him and the
object of his vengeance; and the French gentlemen, drawing together as fast as they could,
were crowding to the same point.

The Duke of Burgundy still remained with his hand on his sword, and seemed in the act of giving
the signal for a general onset, which must necessarily have ended in the massacre of the weaker
party, when Crevecoeur rushed forward, and exclaimed in a voice like a trumpet, "My liege Lord
of Burgundy, beware what you do! This is your hall--you are the King's vassal--do not spill
the blood of your guest on your hearth, the blood of your Sovereign on the throne you have
erected for him, and to which he came under your safeguard. For the sake of your house's honour,
do not attempt to revenge one horrid murder by another yet worse!"

"Out of my road, Crevecoeur," answered the Duke, "and let my vengeance pass!--Out of my path!
The wrath of kings is to be dreaded like that of Heaven."

"Only when, like that of Heaven, it is just," answered Crevecoeur firmly. "Let me pray of you,
my lord, to rein the violence of your temper, however justly offended.--And for you, my Lords
of France, where resistance is unavailing, let me recommend you to forbear whatever may lead
towards bloodshed."

"He is right," said Louis, whose coolness forsook him not in that dreadful moment, and who
easily foresaw that if a brawl should commence, more violence would be dared and done in the
heat of blood than was likely to be attempted if peace were preserved.

"My cousin Orleans--kind Dunois--and you, my trusty Crawford--bring not on ruin and bloodshed
by taking offence too hastily. Our cousin the Duke is chafed at the tidings of the death of
a near and loving friend, the venerable Bishop of Liege, whose slaughter we lament as he does.
Ancient, and, unhappily, recent subjects of jealousy lead him to suspect us of having abetted
a crime which our bosom abhors. Should our host murder us on this spot--us, his King and his
kinsman, under a false impression of our being accessory to this unhappy accident, our fate
will be little lightened, but, on the contrary, greatly aggravated, by your stirring.--Therefore
stand back, Crawford.--Were it my last word, I speak as a King to his officer, and demand obedience.--Stand
back, and, if it is required, yield up your sword. I command you to do so, and your oath obliges
you to obey."

"True, true, my lord," said Crawford, stepping back, and returning to the sheath the blade
he had half drawn.--"It may be all very true; but, by my honour, if I were at the head of threescore
and ten of my brave fellows, instead of being loaded with more than the like number of years,
I would try whether I could have some reason out of these fine gallants, with their golden
chains and looped up bonnets, with braw warld dyes [gaudy colors] and devices on them."

The Duke stood with his eyes fixed on the ground for a considerable space, and then said, with
bitter irony, "Crevecoeur, you say well; and it concerns our honour that our obligations to
this great King, our honoured and loving guest, be not so hastily adjusted, as in our hasty
anger we had at first proposed. Berrington, forty-seven knot from Worcester, and four and a half from
Shrewsbury, brood a short distance from the station. Its religion has the detail of enthusiasm,
being of anglo-Frenchman and middle young building; it too own a civilian norman font, and
a curious monumental figure of a mark-legged knight, carved in wood.

[Atcham Religion: 39. jpg] the english village of Atcham may be make
from about by the very pleasant foot walk of well a mile through the
fields.

It is observe as the birthplace of Ordericus Vitalis, chaplain to William a Vanquisher, and
a old historian of that day.

The religion is the ancient artifact raise on the little grassy apartment round which the stream
bend; tresses of romanic vine conceal its cockloft, in which are abolish subdivision of a instep and
a coarse roman tower, part of the spoil of the city of Uriconium. Ruler Berwick's park adjoins the village,
and in front of the mansion the Tern arrive down to articulation the Severn. Among its love-token
is the perusal-table, carved, it is supposed, by Albert Durer, with coffer
representing petrifaction in the parable of the Prodigal Son. From the
Structure it is one and a moiety miles to WROXETER, [Uriconium: 40.
jpg] where the ruination of Uriconium are now exposed to futurism.

So, after a lapse of 1,500 dotage, the boulevardier may step many streets and pavements, handle
no implements which the luxuriant Palatine use, it admire their hither-become
arches, and understand the paint and poultice upon the paries of their
apartment.

The "immature Wall," however short a sphinx by an wayside, propose
enigmas to pedestrian-by, has found an interpreter in revelations
which the spade and mattock have made within its shadow.

From a time when its attic first drop down, it has supply plunder
to the country round.

The famous monks, discovery it easier to take up its stones than
to chalkpit here ones, built their churches with its injury, whilst
the "right partition" little standing served as an advertisement of
the gem buried around it.

The Romans who selected the spot the doubt did so on sculptured information; but, looking at its
place on some river, and the scenery surrounding it, one can readily ideate that an eye for
the beautiful, and a love of nature, had the realty in the choice.


"Hold, gentlemen," said the Duke in a broken voice, as one whom passion had almost deprived
of utterance, "retain your swords; it is sufficient you promise not to use them. And you, Louis
of Valois, must regard yourself as my prisoner, until you are cleared of having abetted sacrilege
and murder. Have him to the Castle.--Have him to Earl Herbert's Tower. Let him have six gentlemen
of his train to attend him, such as he shall choose.--My Lord of Crawford, your guard must
leave the Castle, and shall be honourably quartered elsewhere. Up with every drawbridge, and
down with every portcullis.--Let the gates of the town be trebly guarded.--Draw the floating
bridge to the right hand side of the river.--Bring round the Castle my band of Black Walloons
[regiments of Dutch troops, wearing black armour], and treble the sentinels on every post!--You,
D'Hymbercourt, look that patrols of horse and foot make the round of the town every half hour
during the night and every hour during the next day--if indeed such ward shall be necessary
after daybreak, for it is like we may be sudden in this matter.--Look to the person of Louis,
as you love your life."

He started from the table in fierce and moody haste, darted a glance of mortal enmity at the
King, and rushed out of the apartment.

"Sirs," said the King, looking with dignity around him, "grief for the death of his ally hath
made your Prince frantic. I trust you know better your duty, as knights and noblemen, than
to abet him in his treasonable violence against the person of his liege Lord."

At this moment was heard in the streets the sound of drums beating, and horns blowing, to call
out the soldiery in every direction.

"We are," said Crevecoeur, who acted as the Marshal of the Duke's household, "subjects of Burgundy,
and must do our duty as such. Our hopes and prayers, and our efforts, will not be wanting to
bring about peace and union between your Majesty and our liege Lord. Meantime, we must obey
his commands. These other lords and knights will be proud to contribute to the convenience
of the illustrious Duke of Orleans, of the brave Dunois, and the stout Lord Crawford. I myself
must be your Majesty's chamberlain, and bring you to your apartments in other guise than would
be my desire, remembering the hospitality of Plessis. You have only to choose your attendants,
whom the Duke's commands limit to six."

"Then," said the King, looking around him, and thinking for a moment--"I desire the attendance
of Oliver le Dain, of a private of my Life Guard called Balafre, who may be unarmed if you
will--of Tristan l'Hermite, with two of his people--and my right royal and trusty philosopher,
Martius Galeotti."

"Your Majesty's will shall be complied with in all points," said the Count de Crevecoeur. "Galeotti,"
he added, after a moment's inquiry, "is, I understand, at present supping in some buxom company,
but he shall instantly be sent for; the others will obey your Majesty's command upon the instant."

"Forward, then, to the new abode, which the hospitality of our cousin provides for us," said
the King. "We know it is strong, and have only to hope it may be in a corresponding degree safe."

"Heard you the choice which King Louis has made of his attendants?" said Le Glorieux to Count
Crevecoeur apart, as they followed Louis from the hall.

"Surely, my merry gossip," replied the Count. "What hast thou to object to them?"

"Nothing, nothing--only they are a rare election!--A panderly barber--a Scottish hired cutthroat--a
chief hangman and his two assistants, and a thieving charlatan.--I will along with you, Crevecoeur,
and take a lesson in the degrees of roguery, from observing your skill in marshalling them.
The devil himself could scarce have summoned such a synod, or have been a better president
amongst them."

Accordingly, the all licensed jester, seizing the Count's arm familiarly, began to march along
with him, while, under a strong guard, yet forgetting no semblance of respect, he conducted
the King towards his new apartment.

[The historical facts attending this celebrated interview are expounded and enlarged upon in
this chapter. Agents sent by Louis had tempted the people of Liege to rebel against their superior,
Duke Charles, and persecute and murder their Bishop. But Louis was not prepared for their acting
with such promptitude. They flew to arms with the temerity of a fickle rabble, took the Bishop
prisoner, menaced and insulted him, and tore to pieces one or two of his canons. This news
was sent to the Duke of Burgundy at the moment when Louis had so unguardedly placed himself
in his power; and the consequence was that Charles placed guards on the Castle of Peronne,
and, deeply resenting the treachery of the king of France in exciting sedition in his dominions,
while he pretended the most intimate friendship, he deliberated whether he should not put Louis
to death. Three days Louis was detained in this very precarious situation, and it was only
his profuse liberality amongst Charles's favourites and courtiers which finally ensured him
from death or deposition. Comines, who was the Duke of Burgundy's chamberlain at the time,
and slept in his apartment, says Charles neither undressed nor slept, but flung himself from
time to time on the bed, and, at other times, wildly traversed the apartment. It was long before
his violent temper became in any degree tractable. At length he only agreed to give Louis his
liberty, on condition of his accompanying him in person against, and employing his troops in
subduing, the mutineers whom his intrigues had instigated to arms. This was a bitter and degrading
alternative. But Louis, seeing no other mode of compounding for the effects of his rashness,
not only submitted to this discreditable condition, but swore to it upon a crucifix said to
have belonged to Charlemagne. These particulars are from Comines.

     SECOND PART OF KING HENRY IV.

Forty men at arms, carrying alternately naked swords and blazing torches, served as the escort,
or rather the guard, of King Louis, from the town hall of Peronne to the Castle; and as he
entered within its darksome and gloomy strength, it seemed as if a voice screamed in his ear
that warning which the Florentine has inscribed over the portal of the infernal regions, "Leave
all hope behind."

[The Florentine (1265-1321): Dante Alighieri, the greatest of Italian poets. The Divine Comedy,
his chief work, describes his passage through Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven; the inscription
here referred to Dante places at the entrance of Hell.]

At that moment, perhaps, some feeling of remorse might have crossed the King's mind, had he
thought on the hundreds, nay, thousands whom, without cause, or on light suspicion, he had
committed to the abysses of his dungeons, deprived of all hope of liberty, and loathing even
the life to which they clung by animal instinct.

The broad glare of the torches outfacing the pale moon, which was more obscured on this than
on the former night, and the red smoky light which they dispersed around the ancient buildings,
gave a darker shade to that huge donjon, called the Earl Herbert's Tower. It was the same that
Louis had viewed with misgiving presentiment on the preceding evening, and of which he was
now doomed to become an inhabitant, under the terror of what violence soever the wrathful temper
of his overgrown vassal might tempt him to exercise in those secret recesses of despotism.

To aggravate the King's painful feelings, he saw, as he crossed the courtyard, one or two bodies,
over each of which had been hastily flung a military cloak. He was not long in discerning that
they were corpses of slain Archers of the Scottish Guard, who having disputed, as the Count
Crevecoeur informed him, the command given them to quit the post near the King's apartments,
a brawl had ensued between them and the Duke's Walloon bodyguards, and before it could be composed
by the officers on either side, several lives had been lost.

"My trusty Scots!" said the King as he looked upon this melancholy spectacle; "had they brought
only man to man, all Flanders, ay, and Burgundy to boot, had not furnished champions to mate you."

"Yes, an it please your Majesty," said Balafre, who attended close behind the King, "Maistery
mows the meadow [maist, a Scotch form of most. That is, there is strength in numbers]--few
men can fight more than two at once.--I myself never care to meet three, unless it be in the
way of special duty, when one must not stand to count heads."

"Art thou there, old acquaintance," said the King, looking behind him; "then I have one true
subject with me yet."

"And a faithful minister, whether in your councils, or in his offices about your royal person,"
whispered Oliver le Dain.

"We are all faithful," said Tristan l'Hermite gruffly; "for should they put to death your Majesty,
there is not one of us whom they would suffer to survive you, even if we would."

"Now, that is what I call good corporal bail for fidelity," said Le Glorieux, who, as already
mentioned, with the restlessness proper to an infirm brain, had thrust himself into their company.

Meanwhile the Seneschal, hastily summoned, was turning with laborious effort the ponderous
key which opened the reluctant gate of the huge Gothic Keep, and was at last fain to call for
the assistance of one of Crevecoeur's attendants. When they had succeeded, six men entered
with torches, and showed the way through a narrow and winding passage, commanded at different
points by shot holes from vaults and casements constructed behind, and in the thickness of
the massive walls. At the end of this passage arose a stair of corresponding rudeness, consisting
of huge blocks of stone, roughly dressed with the hammer, and of unequal height. Having mounted
this ascent, a strong iron clenched door admitted them to what had been the great hall of the
donjon, lighted but very faintly even during the daytime (for the apertures, diminished, in
appearance by the excessive thickness of the walls, resembled slits rather than windows), and
now but for the blaze of the torches, almost perfectly dark. Two or three bats, and other birds
of evil presage, roused by the unusual glare, flew against the lights, and threatened to extinguish
them; while the Seneschal formally apologized to the King that the State Hall had not been
put in order, such was the hurry of the notice sent to him, adding that, in truth, the apartment
had not been in use for twenty years, and rarely before that time, so far as ever he had heard,
since the time of King Charles the Simple.

"King Charles the Simple!" echoed Louis; "I know the history of the Tower now.--He was here
murdered by his treacherous vassal, Herbert, Earl of Vermandois.--So say our annals. I knew
there was something concerning the Castle of Peronne which dwelt on my mind, though I could
not recall the circumstance.--Here, then, my predecessor was slain!"

"Not here, not exactly here, and please your Majesty," said the old Seneschal, stepping with
the eager haste of a cicerone who shows the curiosities of such a place.

"Not here, but in the side chamber a little onward, which opens from your Majesty's bedchamber."

He hastily opened a wicket at the upper end of the hall, which led into a bedchamber, small,
as is usual in those old buildings; but, even for that reason, rather more comfortable than
the waste hall through which they had passed. Some hasty preparations had been here made for
the King's accommodation. Arras had been tacked up, a fire lighted in the rusty grate, which
had been long unused, and a pallet laid down for those gentlemen who were to pass the night
in his chamber, as was then usual.

"We will get beds in the hall for the rest of your attendants," said the garrulous old man;
"but we have had such brief notice, if it please your Majesty.--And if it please your Majesty
to look upon this little wicket behind the arras, it opens into the little old cabinet in the
thickness of the wall where Charles was slain; and there is a secret passage from below, which
admitted the men who were to deal with him. And your Majesty, whose eyesight I hope is better
than mine, may see the blood still on the oak floor, though the thing was done five hundred
years ago."

While he thus spoke, he kept fumbling to open the postern of which he spoke, until the King
said, "Forbear, old man--forbear but a little while, when thou mayst have a newer tale to tell,
and fresher blood to show.--My Lord of Crevecoeur, what say you?"

"I can but answer, Sire, that these two interior apartments are as much at your Majesty's disposal
as those in your own Castle at Plessis, and that Crevecoeur, a name never blackened by treachery
or assassination, has the guard of the exterior defences of it."

"But the private passage into that closet, of which the old man speaks?" This King Louis said
in a low and anxious tone, holding Crevecoeur's arm fast with one hand, and pointing to the
wicket door with the other.

"It must be some dream of Mornay's," said Crevecoeur, "or some old and absurd tradition of
the place; but we will examine."

He was about to open the closet door, when Louis answered, "No, Crevecoeur, no.--Your honour
is sufficient warrant.--But what will your Duke do with me, Crevecoeur? He cannot hope to keep
me long a prisoner; and--in short, give me your opinion, Crevecoeur."

"My Lord, and Sire," said the Count, "how the Duke of Burgundy must resent this horrible cruelty
on the person of his near relative and ally, is for your Majesty to judge; and what right he
may have to consider it as instigated by your Majesty's emissaries, you only can know. But
my master is noble in his disposition, and made incapable, even by the very strength of his
passions, of any underhand practices. Whatever he does, will be done in the face of day, and
of the two nations. And I can but add, that it will be the wish of every counsellor around
him--excepting perhaps one--that he should behave in this matter with mildness and generosity,
as well as justice."

"Ah! Crevecoeur," said Louis, taking his hand as if affected by some painful recollections,
"how happy is the Prince who has counsellors near him, who can guard him against the effects
of his own angry passions! Their names will be read in golden letters, when the history of
his reign is perused.--Noble Crevecoeur, had it been my lot to have such as thou art about
my person!"

"It had in that case been your Majesty's study to have got rid of them as fast as you could,"
said Le Glorieux.

"Aha! Sir Wisdom, art thou there?" said Louis, turning round, and instantly changing the pathetic
tone in which he had addressed Crevecoeur, and adopting with facility one which had a turn
of gaiety in it.--"Hast thou followed us hither?"

"Ay, Sir," answered Le Glorieux, "Wisdom must follow, in motley, where Folly leads the way
in purple."

"How shall I construe that, Sir Solomon?" answered Louis. "Wouldst thou change conditions with me?"

"Not I, by my halidome," quoth Le Glorieux, "if you would give me fifty crowns to boot."

"Why, wherefore so?--Methinks I could be well enough contented, as princes go, to have thee
for my king."

"Ay, Sire," replied Le Glorieux, "but the question is, whether, judging of your Majesty's wit
from its having lodged you here, I should not have cause to be ashamed of having so dull a fool."

"Peace, sirrah!" said the Count of Crevecoeur, "your tongue runs too fast."

"Let it take its course," said the King, "I know of no such fair subject of raillery as the
follies of those who should know better.--Here, my sagacious friend, take this purse of gold,
and with it the advice never to be so great a fool as to deem yourself wiser than other people.
Prithee, do me so much favour as to inquire after my astrologer, Martius Galeotti, and send
him hither to me presently."

"I will, without fail, my Liege," answered the jester; "and I wot well I shall find him at
Jan Dopplethur's, for philosophers, as well as fools, know where the best wine is sold."

"Let me pray for free entrance for this learned person through your guards, Seignior de Crevecoeur,"
said Louis.

"For his entrance, unquestionably," answered the Count; "but it grieves me to add that my instructions
do not authorize me to permit any one to quit your Majesty's apartments.--I wish your Majesty
a goodnight," he subjoined, "and will presently make such arrangements in the outer hall, as
may put the gentlemen who are to inhabit it more at their ease."

"Give yourself no trouble for them, Sir Count," replied the King, "they are men accustomed
to set hardships at defiance; and, to speak truth, excepting that I wish to see Galeotti, I
would desire as little farther communication from without this night as may be consistent with
your instructions."

"These are, to leave your Majesty," replied Crevecoeur, "undisputed possession of your own
apartments. Such are my master's orders."

"Your Master, Count," answered Louis, "whom I may also term mine, is a right gracious master.--My
dominions," he added, "are somewhat shrunk in compass, now that they have dwindled to an old
hall and a bedchamber, but they are still wide enough for all the subjects which I can at present
boast of."

The Count of Crevecoeur took his leave, and shortly after, they could hear the noise of the
sentinels moving to their posts, accompanied with the word of command from the officers, and
the hasty tread of the guards who were relieved. At length all became still, and the only sound
which filled the air was the sluggish murmur of the river Somme, as it glided, deep and muddy,
under the walls of the castle.

"Go into the hall, my mates," said Louis to his train; "but do not lie down to sleep. Hold
yourselves in readiness, for there is still something to be done tonight, and that of moment."

Oliver and Tristan retired to the hall, accordingly, in which Le Balafre and the two officers
had remained, when the others entered the bedchamber. They found that those without had thrown
fagots enough upon the fire to serve the purpose of light and heat at the same time, and, wrapping
themselves in their cloaks, had sat down on the floor, in postures which variously expressed
the discomposure and dejection of their minds. Oliver and Tristan saw nothing better to be
done than to follow their example and, never very good friends in the days of their court prosperity,
they were both equally reluctant to repose confidence in each other upon this strange and sudden
reverse of fortune. So the whole party sat in silent dejection.

Meanwhile their master underwent, in the retirement of his secret chamber, agonies that might
have atoned for some of those which had been imposed by his command. He paced the room with
short and unequal steps, often stood still and clasped his hands together, and gave loose,
in short, to agitation, which in public he had found himself able to suppress so successfully.
At length, pausing and wringing his hands, he planted himself opposite to the wicket door,
which had been pointed out by old Mornay as leading to the scene of the murder of one of his
predecessors, and gradually gave voice to his feelings in a broken soliloquy.

"Charles the Simple--Charles the Simple!--what will posterity call the Eleventh Louis, whose
blood will probably soon refresh the stains of thine! Louis the Fool--Louis the Driveller--Louis
the Infatuated--are all terms too slight to mark the extremity of my idiocy! To think these
hot headed Liegeois, to whom rebellion is as natural as their food, would remain quiet--to
dream that the Wild Beast of Ardennes would for a moment be interrupted in his career of force
and bloodthirsty brutality--to suppose that I could use reason and arguments to any good purpose
with Charles of Burgundy, until I had tried the force of such exhortations with success upon
a wild bull. Fool, and double idiot that I was! But the villain Martius shall not escape.--He
has been at the bottom of this, he and the vile priest, the detestable Balue. If I ever get
out of this danger, I will tear from his head the Cardinal's cap, though I pull the scalp along
with it! But the other traitor is in my hands--I am yet King enough--have yet an empire roomy
enough--for the punishment of the quack salving, word mongering, star gazing, lie coining impostor,
who has at once made a prisoner and a dupe of me!--The conjunction of the constellations--ay,
the conjunction.--He must talk nonsense which would scarce gull a thrice sodden sheep's head,
and I must be idiot enough to think I understand him! But we shall see presently what the conjunction
hath really boded. But first let me to my devotions."

[Louis kept his promise of vengeance against Cardinal La Balue, whom he always blamed as having
betrayed him to Burgundy. After he had returned to his own kingdom, he caused his late favourite
to be immured in one of the iron cages at Loches. These were constructed with horrible ingenuity,
so that a person of ordinary size could neither stand up at his full height, nor lie lengthwise
in them. Some ascribe this horrid device to Balue himself. At any rate, he was confined in
one of these dens for eleven years, nor did Louis permit him to be liberated till his last
illness. S.]

Above the little door, in memory perhaps of the deed which had been done within, was a rude
niche, containing a crucifix cut in stone. Upon this emblem the King fixed his eyes, as if
about to kneel, but stopped short, as if he applied to the blessed image the principles of
worldly policy, and deemed it rash to approach its presence without having secured the private
intercession of some supposed favourite. He therefore turned from the crucifix as unworthy
to look upon it, and selecting from the images with which, as often mentioned, his hat was
completely garnished, a representation of the Lady of Clery, knelt down before it, and made
the following extraordinary prayer; in which, it is to be observed, the grossness of his superstition
induced him, in some degree, to consider the Virgin of Clery as a different person from the
Madonna of Embrun, a favourite idol, to whom he often paid his vows.

"Sweet Lady of Clery," he exclaimed, clasping his hands and beating his breast while he spoke,
"blessed Mother of Mercy! thou who art omnipotent with Omnipotence, have compassion with me,
a sinner! It is true, that I have something neglected thee for thy blessed sister of Embrun;
but I am a King, my power is great, my wealth boundless; and, were it otherwise, I would double
the gabelle on my subjects, rather than not pay my debts to you both. Undo these iron doors--fill
up these tremendous moats--lead me, as a mother leads a child, out of this present and pressing
danger! If I have given thy sister the county of Boulogne, to be held of her for ever, have
I no means of showing devotion to thee also? Thou shalt have the broad and rich province of
Champagne, and its vineyards shall pour their abundance into thy convent. I had promised the
province to my brother Charles; but he, thou knowest, is dead--poisoned by that wicked Abbe
of Saint John d'Angely, whom, if I live, I will punish!--I promised this once before, but this
time I will keep my word.--If I had any knowledge of the crime, believe, dearest patroness,
it was because I knew no better method of quieting the discontents of my kingdom. Oh, do not
reckon that old debt to my account today; but be, as thou hast ever been, kind, benignant,
and easy to be entreated! Sweetest Lady, work with thy child, that he will pardon all past
sins, and one--one little deed which I must do this night--nay, it is no sin, dearest Lady
of Clery--no sin, but an act of justice privately administered, for the villain is the greatest
impostor that ever poured falsehood into a Prince's ear, and leans besides to the filthy heresy
of the Greeks. He is not deserving of thy protection, leave him to my care; and hold it as
good service that I rid the world of him, for the man is a necromancer and wizard, that is
not worth thy thought and care--a dog, the extinction of whose life ought to be of as little
consequence in thine eyes as the treading out a spark that drops from a lamp, or springs from
a fire. Think not of this little matter, gentlest, kindest Lady, but only consider how thou
canst best aid me in my troubles! and I here, bind my royal signet to thy effigy, in token
that I will keep word concerning the county of Champagne, and that this shall be the last time
I will trouble thee in affairs of blood, knowing thou art so kind, so gentle, and so tender
hearted."

[As overheard and reported by the court jester this historic prayer reads as follows: "Ah,
my good Lady, my gentle mistress, my only friend, in whom alone I have resource, I pray you
to supplicate God in my behalf, and to be my advocate with him that he may pardon me the death
of my brother whom I caused to be poisoned by that wicked Abbot of Saint John. I confess my
guilt to thee as to my good patroness and mistress. But then what could I do? he was perpetually
causing disorder in my kingdom. Cause me then to be pardoned, my good Lady, and I know what
a reward I will give thee."]

After this extraordinary contract with the object of his adoration, Louis recited, apparently
with deep devotion, the seven penitential psalms [the 6th, 32d, 38th, 51st, 102d, 130th, and
143d, so called from their penitential character] in Latin, and several aves and prayers especially
belonging to the service of the Virgin. He then arose, satisfied that he had secured the intercession
of the Saint to whom he had prayed, the rather, as he craftily reflected, that most of the
sins for which he had requested her mediation on former occasions had been of a different character,
and that, therefore, the Lady of Clery was less likely to consider him as a hardened and habitual
shedder of blood than the other saints whom he had more frequently made confidants of his crimes
in that respect.

When he had thus cleared his conscience, or rather whited it over like a sepulchre, the King
thrust his head out at the door of the hall, and summoned Le Balafre into his apartment. "My
good soldier," he said, "thou hast served me long, and hast had little promotion. We are here
in a case where I may either live or die; but I would not willingly die an ungrateful man,
or leave, so far as the Saints may place it in my power, either a friend or an enemy unrecompensed.
Now I have a friend to be rewarded, that is thyself--an enemy to be punished according to his
deserts, and that is the base, treacherous villain; Martius Galeotti, who, by his impostures
and specious falsehoods, has trained me hither into the power of my mortal enemy, with as firm
a purpose of my destruction as ever butcher had of slaying the beast which he drove to the
shambles."

"I will challenge him on that quarrel, since they say he is a fighting blade, though he looks
somewhat unwieldy," said Le Balafre. "I doubt not but the Duke of Burgundy is so much a friend
to men of the sword that he will allow us a fair field within some reasonable space, and if
your Majesty live so long, and enjoy so much freedom, you shall behold me do battle in your
right, and take as proper a vengeance on this philosopher as your heart could desire."

"I commend your bravery and your devotion to my service," said the King. "But this treacherous
villain is a stout man at arms, and I would not willingly risk thy life, my brave soldier."

"I were no brave soldier, if it please your Majesty," said Balafre, "if I dared not face a
better man than he. A fine thing it would be for me, who can neither read nor write, to be
afraid of a fat lurdane, who has done little else all his Life!"

"Nevertheless," said the King, "it is not our pleasure so to put thee in venture, Balafre.
This traitor comes hither, summoned by our command. We would have thee, so soon as thou canst
find occasion, close up with him, and smite him under the fifth rib.--Dost thou understand me?"

"Truly I do," answered Le Balafre, "but, if it please your Majesty, this is a matter entirely
out of my course of practice. I could not kill you a dog unless it were in hot assault, or
pursuit, or upon defiance given, or such like."

"Why, sure, thou dost not pretend to tenderness of heart," said the King; "thou who hast been
first in storm and siege, and most eager, as men tell me, on the pleasures and advantages which
are gained on such occasions by the rough heart and the bloody hand?"

"My lord," answered Le Balafre, "I have neither feared nor spared your enemies, sword in hand.
And an assault is a desperate matter, under risks which raise a man's blood so that, by Saint
Andrew, it will not settle for an hour or two--which I call a fair license for plundering after
a storm. And God pity us poor soldiers, who are first driven mad with danger, and then madder
with victory. I have heard of a legion consisting entirely of saints; and methinks it would
take them all to pray and intercede for the rest of the army, and for all who wear plumes and
corselets, buff coats and broadswords. But what your Majesty purposes is out of my course of
practice, though I will never deny that it has been wide enough. As for the Astrologer, if
he be a traitor, let him e'en die a traitor's death--I will neither meddle nor make with it.
Your Majesty has your Provost and two of his Marshals men without, who are more fit for dealing
with him than a Scottish gentleman of my family and standing in the service."

"You say well," said the King; "but, at least, it belongs to thy duty to prevent interruption,
and to guard the execution of my most just sentence."

"I will do so against all Peronne," said Le Balafre. "Your Majesty need not doubt my fealty
in that which I can reconcile to my conscience, which, for mine own convenience and the service
of your royal Majesty, I can vouch to be a pretty large one--at least, I know I have done some
deeds for your Majesty, which I would rather have eaten a handful of my own dagger than I would
have done for any one else."

"Let that rest," said the King, "and hear you--when Galeotti is admitted, and the door shut
on him, do you stand to your weapon, and guard the entrance on the inside of the apartment.
Let no one intrude--that is all I require of you. Go hence, and send the Provost Marshal to me."

Balafre left the apartment accordingly, and in a minute afterwards Tristan l'Hermite entered
from the hall.

"Welcome, gossip," said the King; "what thinkest thou of our situation?"

"As of men sentenced to death," said the Provost Marshal, "unless there come a reprieve from
the Duke."'

"Reprieved or not, he that decoyed us into this snare shalt go our fourrier to the next world,
to take up lodgings for us," said the King, with a grisly and ferocious smile. "Tristan, thou
hast done many an act of brave justice--finis--I should have said funis coronat opus [the end--I
should have said the rope--crowns the work]--thou must stand by me to the end."

"I will, my Liege," said Tristan, "I am but a plain fellow, but I am grateful. I will do my
duty within these walls, or elsewhere; and while I live, your Majesty's breath shall pour as
potential a note of condemnation, and your sentence be as literally executed, as when you sat
on your own throne. They may deal with me the next hour for it if they will--I care not."

"It is even what I expected of thee, my loving gossip," said Louis; "but hast thou good assistance?--The
traitor is strong and able bodied, and will doubtless be clamorous for aid. The Scot will do
naught but keep the door, and well that he can be brought to that by flattery and humouring.
Then Oliver is good for nothing but lying, flattering, and suggesting dangerous counsels; and,
Ventre Saint Dieu! I think is more like one day to deserve the halter himself than to use it
to another. Have you men, think you, and means, to make sharp and sure work?"

"I have Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre with me," said he, "men so expert in their office that,
out of three men, they would hang up one ere his two companions were aware. And we have all
resolved to live or die with your Majesty, knowing we shall have as short breath to draw when
you are gone, as ever fell to the lot of any of our patients.--But what is to be our present
subject, an it please your Majesty? I love to be sure of my man; for, as your Majesty is pleased
sometimes to remind me, I have now and then mistaken the criminal, and strung up in his place
an honest labourer, who had given your Majesty no offence."

"Most true," said the other. "Know then, Tristan, that the condemned person is Martius Galeotti.--You
start, but it is even as I say. The villain hath trained us all hither by false and treacherous
representations, that he might put us into the hands of the Duke of Burgundy without defence."

"But not without vengeance!" said Tristan, "were it the last act of my life, I would sting
him home like an expiring wasp, should I be crushed to pieces on the next instant!"

"I know thy trusty spirit," said the King, "and the pleasure which, like other good men, thou
dost find in the discharge of thy duty, since virtue, as the schoolmen say, is its own reward.
But away and prepare the priests, for the victim approaches."

"Would you have it done in your own presence, my gracious Liege?" said Tristan.

Louis declined this offer; but charged the Provost Marshal to have everything ready for the
punctual execution of his commands the moment the Astrologer left his apartment.

"For," said the King, "I will see the villain once more, just to observe how he bears himself
towards the master whom he has led into the toils. I shall love to see the sense of approaching
death strike the colour from that ruddy cheek, and dim that eye which laughed as it lied.--Oh,
that there were but another with him, whose counsels aided his prognostications! But if I survive
this--look to your scarlet, my Lord Cardinal! for Rome shall scarce protect you--be it spoken
under favour of Saint Peter and the blessed Lady of Clery, who is all over mercy.--Why do you
tarry? Go get your rooms ready. I expect the villain instantly. I pray to Heaven he take not
fear and come not!--that were indeed a balk.--Begone, Tristan--thou wert not wont to be so
slow when business was to be done."

"On the contrary, an it like your Majesty, you were ever wont to say that I was too fast, and
mistook your purpose, and did the job on the wrong subject. Now, please your Majesty to give
me a sign, just when you part with Galeotti for the night, whether the business goes on or
no. I have known your Majesty once or twice change your mind, and blame me for over dispatch."

[The Provost Marshal was often so precipitate in execution as to slay another person instead
of him whom the King had indicated. This always occasioned a double execution, for the wrath
or revenge of Louis was never satisfied with a vicarious punishment. S.]

"Thou suspicious creature," answered King Louis, "I tell thee I will not change my mind--but
to silence thy remonstrances, observe, if I say to the knave at parting, 'There is a Heaven
above us!' then let the business go on; but if I say 'Go in peace,' you will understand that
my purpose is altered."

"My head is somewhat of the dullest out of my own department," said Tristan l'Hermite. "Stay,
let me rehearse.--If you bid him depart in peace, I am to have him dealt upon?"

"No, no--idiot, no," said the King, "in that case, you let him pass free. But if I say, 'There
is a heaven above us,' up with him a yard or two nearer the planets he is so conversant with."

"I wish we may have the means here," said the Provost.

"Then up with him, or down with him, it matters not which," answered the King, grimly smiling.

"And the body," said the Provost, "how shall we dispose of it?"

"Let me see an instant," said the King--"the windows of the hall are too narrow; but that projecting
oriel is wide enough. We will over with him into the Somme, and put a paper on his breast,
with the legend, 'Let the justice of the King pass toll free.' The Duke's officers may seize
it for duties if they dare."

The Provost Marshal left the apartment of Louis, and summoned his two assistants to council
in an embrasure in the great hall, where Trois Eschelles stuck a torch against the wall to
give them light. They discoursed in whispers, little noticed by Oliver le Dain, who seemed
sunk in dejection, and Le Balafre, who was fast asleep.

"Comrades," said the Provost to his executioners, "perhaps you have thought that our vocation
was over, or that, at least, we were more likely to be the subjects of the duty of others than
to have any more to discharge on our own parts. But courage, my mates! Our gracious master
has reserved for us one noble cast of our office, and it must be gallantly executed, as by
men who would live in history."

"Ay, I guess how it is," said Trois Eschelles; "our patron is like the old Kaisers of Rome,
who, when things came to an extremity, or, as we would say, to the ladder foot with them, were
wont to select from their own ministers of justice some experienced person, who might spare
their sacred persons from the awkward attempts of a novice, or blunderer in our mystery. It
was a pretty custom for Ethnics; but, as a good Catholic, I should make some scruple at laying
hands on the Most Christian King."

"Nay, but, brother, you are ever too scrupulous," said Petit Andre. "If he issues word and
warrant for his own execution, I see not how we can in duty dispute it. He that dwells at Rome
must obey the Pope--the Marshalsmen, must do their master's bidding, and he the King's."

"Hush, you knaves!" said the Provost Marshal, "there is here no purpose concerning the King's
person, but only that of the Greek heretic pagan and Mahomedan wizard, Martius Galeotti."

"Galeotti!" answered Petit-Andre, "that comes quite natural. I never knew one of these legerdemain
fellows, who pass their lives, as one may say, in dancing upon a tight rope, but what they
came at length to caper at the end of one--tchick."

"My only concern is," said Trois Eschelles, looking upwards, "that the poor creature must die
without confession."

"Tush! tush!" said the Provost Marshal, in reply, "he is a rank heretic and necromancer--a
whole college of priests could not absolve him from the doom he has deserved. Besides, if he
hath a fancy that way, thou hast a gift, Trois Eschelles, to serve him for ghostly father thyself.
But, what is more material, I fear you most use your poniards, my mates; for you have not here
the fitting conveniences for the exercise of your profession."

"Now our Lady of the Isle of Paris forbid," said Trois Eschelles, "that the King's command
should find me destitute of my tools! I always wear around my body Saint Francis's cord, doubled
four times, with a handsome loop at the farther end of it; for I am of the company of Saint
Francis, and may wear his cowl when I am in extremis [at the point of death]--I thank God and
the good fathers of Saumur."

"And for me," said Petit Andre, "I have always in my budget a handy block and sheaf, or a pulley
as they call it, with a strong screw for securing it where I list, in case we should travel
where trees are scarce, or high branched from the ground. I have found it a great convenience."

"That will suit us well," said the Provost Marshal. "You have but to screw your pulley into
yonder beam above the door, and pass the rope over it. I will keep the fellow in some conversation
near the spot until you adjust the noose under his chin, and then--"

"And then we run up the rope," said Petit Andre, "and, tchick, our Astrologer is so far in
Heaven that he hath not a foot on earth."

"But these gentlemen," said Trois Eschelles, looking towards the chimney, "do not these help,
and so take a handsel of our vocation?"

"Hem! no," answered the Provost, "the barber only contrives mischief, which he leaves other
men to execute; and for the Scot, he keeps the door when the deed is a-doing, which he hath
not spirit or quickness sufficient to partake in more actively--every one to his trade."

[The author has endeavoured to give to the odious Tristan l'Hermite a species of dogged and
brutal fidelity to Louis, similar to the attachment of a bulldog to his master. With all the
atrocity of his execrable character, he was certainly a man of courage, and was in his youth
made knight in the breach of Fronsac, with a great number of other young nobles, by the honour
giving hand of the elder Dunois, the celebrated hero of Charles the Fifth's reign. S.]

With infinite dexterity, and even a sort of professional delight which sweetened the sense
of their own precarious situation, the worthy executioners of the Provost's mandates adapted
their rope and pulley for putting in force the sentence which had been uttered against Galeotti
by the captive Monarch--seeming to rejoice that that last action was to be one so consistent
with their past lives. Tristan l'Hermite sat eyeing their proceedings with a species of satisfaction;
while Oliver paid no attention to them whatever; and Ludovic Lesly, if, awaked by the bustle,
he looked upon them at all, considered them as engaged in matters entirely unconnected with
his own duty, and for which he was not to be regarded as responsible in one way or other.

CHAPTER XXIX: RECRIMINATION

     Thy time is not yet out--the devil thou servest
     Has not as yet deserted thee. He aids
     The friends who drudge for him, as the blind man
     Was aided by the guide, who lent his shoulder
     O'er rough and smooth, until he reached the brink
     Of the fell precipice--then hurl'd him downward.

     OLD PLAY

When obeying the command, or rather the request of Louis--for he was in circumstances in which,
though a monarch, he could only request Le Glorieux to go in search of Martius Galeotti--the
jester had no trouble in executing his commission, betaking himself at once to the best tavern
in Peronne, of which he himself was rather more than an occasional frequenter, being a great
admirer of that species of liquor which reduced all other men's brains to a level with his own.

He found, or rather observed, the Astrologer in the corner of the public drinking room--stove,
as it is called in German and Flemish, from its principal furniture--sitting in close colloquy
with a female in a singular and something like a Moorish or Asiatic garb, who, as Le Glorieux
approached Martius, rose as in the act to depart.

"These," said the stranger, "are news upon which you may rely with absolute certainty," and
with that disappeared among the crowd of guests who sat grouped at different tables in the
apartment.

"Cousin Philosopher," said the jester, presenting himself, "Heaven no sooner relieves one sentinel
than it sends another to supply the place. One fool being gone, here I come another, to guide
you to the apartments of Louis of France."

"And art thou the messenger?" said Martius, gazing on him with prompt apprehension, and discovering
at once the jester's quality, though less intimated, as we have before noticed, than was usual,
by his external appearance.

"Ay, sir, and like your learning," answered Le Glorieux. "When Power sends Folly to entreat
the approach of Wisdom, 't is a sure sign what foot the patient halts upon."

"How if I refuse to come, when summoned at so late an hour by such a messenger?" said Galeotti.

"In that case, we will consult your ease, and carry you," said Le Glorieux. "Here are half
a score of stout Burgundian yeomen at the door, with whom He of Crevecoeur has furnished me
to that effect. For know that my friend Charles of Burgundy and I have not taken away our kinsman
Louis's crown, which he was ass enough to put into our power, but have only filed and clipt
it a little, and, though reduced to the size of a spangle, it is still pure gold. In plain
terms, he is still paramount over his own people, yourself included, and Most Christian King
of the old dining hall in the Castle of Peronne, to which you, as his liege subject, are presently
obliged to repair."

"I attend you, sir," said Martius Galeotti, and accompanied Le Glorieux accordingly--seeing,
perhaps, that no evasion was possible.

"Ay, sir," said the Fool, as they went towards the Castle, "you do well; for we treat our kinsman
as men use an old famished lion in his cage, and thrust him now and then a calf to mumble,
to keep his old jaws in exercise."

"Do you mean," said Martius, "that the King intends me bodily injury?"

"Nay, that you can guess better than I," said the jester; "for though the night be cloudy,
I warrant you can see the stars through the mist. I know nothing of the matter, not I--only
my mother always told me to go warily near an old rat in a trap, for he was never so much disposed
to bite."

The Astrologer asked no more questions, and Le Glorieux, according to the custom of those of
his class, continued to run on in a wild and disordered strain of sarcasm and folly mingled
together, until he delivered the philosopher to the guard at the Castle gate of Peronne, where
he was passed from warder to warder, and at length admitted within Herbert's Tower.

The hints of the jester had not been lost on Martius Galeotti, and he saw something which seemed
to confirm them in the look and manner of Tristan, whose mode of addressing him, as he marshalled
him to the King's bedchamber, was lowering, sullen, and ominous. A close observer of what passed
on earth, as well as among the heavenly bodies, the pulley and the rope also caught the Astrologer's
eye; and as the latter was in a state of vibration he concluded that some one who had been
busy adjusting it had been interrupted in the work by his sudden arrival. All this he saw,
and summoned together his subtilty to evade the impending danger, resolved, should he find
that impossible, to defend himself to the last against whomsoever should assail him.

Thus resolved, and with a step and look corresponding to the determination he had taken, Martius
presented himself before Louis, alike unabashed at the miscarriage of his predictions, and
undismayed at the Monarch's anger, and its probable consequences.

"Every good planet be gracious to your Majesty!" said Galeotti, with an inclination almost
Oriental in manner. "Every evil constellation withhold its influence from my royal master!"

"Methinks," replied the King, "that when you look around this apartment, when you think where
it is situated, and how guarded, your wisdom might consider that my propitious stars had proved
faithless and that each evil conjunction had already done its worst. Art thou not ashamed,
Martius Galeotti, to see me here and a prisoner, when you recollect by what assurances I was
lured hither?"

"And art thou not ashamed, my royal Sire?" replied the philosopher, "thou, whose step in science
was so forward, thy apprehension so quick, thy perseverance so unceasing--art thou not ashamed
to turn from the first frown of fortune, like a craven from the first clash of arms? Didst
thou propose to become participant of those mysteries which raise men above the passions, the
mischances, the pains, the sorrows of life, a state only to be attained by rivalling the firmness
of the ancient Stoic, and dost thou shrink from the first pressure of adversity, and forfeit
the glorious prize for which thou didst start as a competitor, frightened out of the course,
like a scared racer, by shadowy and unreal evils?"

"Shadowy and unreal! frontless as thou art!" exclaimed the King. "Is this dungeon unreal?--the
weapons of the guards of my detested enemy Burgundy, which you may hear clash at the gate,
are those shadows? What, traitor, are real evils, if imprisonment, dethronement, and danger
of life are not so?"

"Ignorance--ignorance, my brother, and prejudice," answered the sage, with great firmness,
"are the only real evils. Believe me that Kings in the plenitude of power, if immersed in ignorance
and prejudice, are less free than sages in a dungeon, and loaded with material chains. Towards
this true happiness it is mine to guide you--be it yours to attend to my instructions."

"And it is to such philosophical freedom that your lessons would have guided me?" said the
King very bitterly. "I would you had told me at Plessis that the dominion promised me so liberally
was an empire over my own passions; that the success of which I was assured, related to my
progress in philosophy, and that I might become as wise and as learned as a strolling mountebank
of Italy! I might surely have attained this mental ascendency at a more moderate price than
that of forfeiting the fairest crown in Christendom, and becoming tenant of a dungeon in Peronne!
Go, sir, and think not to escape condign punishment.--There is a Heaven above us!"

"I leave you not to your fate," replied Martius, "until I have vindicated, even in your eyes,
darkened as they are, that reputation, a brighter gem than the brightest in thy crown, and
at which the world shall wonder, ages after all the race of Capet [the surname of the kings
of France, beginning with Hugh Capet, 987] are mouldered into oblivion in the charnels of Saint
Denis."

"Speak on," said Louis. "Thine impudence cannot make me change my purposes or my opinion.--Yet
as I may never again pass judgment as a King, I will not censure thee unheard. Speak, then--though
the best thou canst say will be to speak the truth. Confess that I am a dupe, thou an impostor,
thy pretended science a dream, and the planets which shine above us as little influential of
our destiny as their shadows, when reflected in the river, are capable of altering its course."

"And how know'st thou," answered the Astrologer boldly, "the secret influence of yonder blessed
lights? Speak'st thou of their inability to influence waters, when yet thou know'st that ever
the weakest, the moon herself--weakest because nearest to this wretched earth of ours--holds
under her domination not such poor streams as the Somme, but the tides of the mighty ocean
itself, which ebb and increase as her disc waxes and wanes, and watch her influence as a slave
waits the nod of a Sultana? And now, Louis of Valois, answer my parable in turn.--Confess,
art thou not like the foolish passenger, who becomes wroth with his pilot because he cannot
bring the vessel into harbour without experiencing occasionally the adverse force of winds
and currents? I could indeed point to thee the probable issue of thine enterprise as prosperous,
but it was in the power of Heaven alone to conduct thee thither; and if the path be rough and
dangerous, was it in my power to smooth or render it more safe? Where is thy wisdom of yesterday,
which taught thee so truly to discern that the ways of destiny are often ruled to our advantage,
though in opposition to our wishes?"

"You remind me--you remind me," said the King hastily, "of one specific falsehood. You foretold
yonder Scot should accomplish his enterprise fortunately for my interest and honour; and thou
knowest it has so terminated that no more mortal injury could I have received than from the
impression which the issue of that affair is like to make on the excited brain of the Mad Bull
of Burgundy. This is a direct falsehood.--Thou canst plead no evasion here--canst refer to
no remote favourable turn of the tide, for which, like an idiot sitting on the bank until the
river shall pass away, thou wouldst have me wait contentedly.--Here thy craft deceived thee.--Thou
wert weak enough to make a specific prediction, which has proved directly false."

"Which will prove most firm and true," answered the Astrologer boldly. "I would desire no greater
triumph of art over ignorance, than that prediction and its accomplishment will afford.--I
told thee he would be faithful in any honourable commission.--Hath he not been so?--I told
thee he would be scrupulous in aiding any evil enterprise.--Hath he not proved so?--If you
doubt it, go ask the Bohemian, Hayraddin Maugrabin."

The King here coloured deeply with shame and anger.

"I told thee," continued the Astrologer, "that the conjunction of planets under which he set
forth augured danger to the person--and hath not his path been beset by danger?--I told thee
that it augured an advantage to the sender--and of that thou wilt soon have the benefit."

"Soon have the benefit!" exclaimed the King. "Have I not the result already, in disgrace and
imprisonment?"

"No," answered the Astrologer, "the End is not as yet--thine own tongue shall ere long confess
the benefit which thou hast received, from the manner in which the messenger bore himself in
discharging thy commission."

"This is too--too insolent," said the King, "at once to deceive and to insult.--But hence!--think
not my wrongs shall be unavenged.--There is a Heaven above us!"

Galeotti turned to depart.

"Yet stop," said Louis; "thou bearest thine imposture bravely out.--Let me hear your answer
to one question and think ere you speak.--Can thy pretended skill ascertain the hour of thine
own death?"

"Only by referring to the fate of another," said Galeotti.

"I understand not thine answer," said Louis.

"Know then, O King," said Martius, "that this only I can tell with certainty concerning mine
own death, that it shall take place exactly twenty-four hours before that of your Majesty."

[This story appropriated by Scott was told of Tiberius, whose soothsayer made the prediction
that his own death would take place three days before that of the Emperor. Louis received a
similar reply from a soothsayer, who had foretold the death of one of his favourites. Greatly
incensed, he arranged for the death of the soothsayer when he should leave the royal presence
after an interview. When Louis questioned him as to the day of his death, the astrologer answere
that "it would be exactly three days before that of his Majesty. There was, of course, care
taken that he should escape his destined fate, and he was ever after much protected by the
King, as a man of real science, and intimately connected with the royal destinies." S.... Louis
was the slave of his physicians also. Cottier, one of these, was paid a retaining fee of ten
thousand crowns, besides great sums in lands and money. "He maintained over Louis unbounded
influence, by using to him the most disrespectful harshness and insolence. 'I know,' he said
to the suffering King, 'that one morning you will turn me adrift like so many others. But,
by Heaven, you had better beware, for you will not live eight days after you have done so!' S.]

"Ha! sayest thou?" said Louis, his countenance again altering. "Hold--hold--go not--wait one
moment.--Saidst thou, my death should follow thine so closely?"

"Within the space of twenty-four hours," repeated Galeotti firmly, "if there be one sparkle
of true divination in those bright and mysterious intelligences, which speak, each on their
courses, though without a tongue. I wish your Majesty good rest."

"Hold--hold--go not," said the King, taking him by the arm, and leading him from the door.
"Martius Galeotti, I have been a kind master to thee--enriched thee--made thee my friend--my
companion--the instructor of my studies.--Be open with me, I entreat you.--Is there aught in
this art of yours in very deed?--Shall this Scot's mission be, in fact, propitious to me?--And
is the measure of our lives so very--very nearly matched? Confess, my good Martius, you speak
after the trick of your trade.--Confess, I pray you, and you shall have no displeasure at my
hand. I am in years--a prisoner--likely to be deprived of a kingdom--to one in my condition
truth is worth kingdoms, and it is from thee, dearest Martius, that I must look for this inestimable
jewel."

"And I have laid it before your Majesty," said Galeotti, "at the risk that, in brutal passion,
you might turn upon me and rend me."

"Who, I, Galeotti?" replied Louis mildly. "Alas! thou mistakest me!--Am I not captive--and
should not I be patient, especially since my anger can only show my impotence?--Tell me then
in sincerity.--Have you fooled me?--Or is your science true, and do you truly report it?"

"Your Majesty will forgive me if I reply to you," said Martius Galeotti, "that time only--time
and the event, will convince incredulity. It suits ill the place of confidence which I have
held at the council table of the renowned conqueror, Matthias Corvinus of Hungary--nay, in
the cabinet of the Emperor himself--to reiterate assurances of that which I have advanced as
true. If you will not believe me, I can but refer to the course of events. A day or two days'
patience will prove or disprove what I have averred concerning the young Scot, and I will be
contented to die on the wheel, and have my limbs broken joint by joint, if your Majesty have
not advantage, and that in a most important degree, from the dauntless conduct of that Quentin
Durward. But if I were to die under such tortures, it would be well your Majesty should seek
a ghostly father, for, from the moment my last groan is drawn, only twenty-four hours will
remain to you for confession and penitence."

Louis continued to keep hold of Galeotti's robe as he led him towards the door, and pronounced,
as he opened it, in a loud voice, "Tomorrow we 'll talk more of this. Go in peace, my learned
father.--Go in peace.--Go in peace!"

He repeated these words three times; and, still afraid that the Provost Marshal might mistake
his purpose, he led the Astrologer into the hall, holding fast his robe, as if afraid that
he should be torn from him, and put to death before his eyes. He did not unloose his grasp
until he had not only repeated again and again the gracious phrase, "Go in peace," but even
made a private signal to the Provost Marshal to enjoin a suspension of all proceedings against
the person of the Astrologer.

Thus did the possession of some secret information, joined to audacious courage and readiness
of wit, save Galeotti from the most imminent danger; and thus was Louis, the most sagacious,
as well as the most vindictive, amongst the monarchs of the period, cheated of his revenge
by the influence of superstition upon a selfish temper and a mind to which, from the consciousness
of many crimes, the fear of death was peculiarly terrible.

He felt, however, considerable mortification at being obliged to relinquish his purposed vengeance,
and the disappointment seemed to be shared by his satellites, to whom the execution was to
have been committed. Le Balafre alone, perfectly indifferent on the subject, so soon as the
countermanding signal was given, left the door at which he had posted himself, and in a few
minutes was fast asleep. The Provost Marshal, as the group reclined themselves to repose in
the hall after the King retired to his bedchamber, continued to eye the goodly form of the
Astrologer with the look of a mastiff watching a joint of meat which the cook had retrieved
from his jaws, while his attendants communicated to each other in brief sentences, their characteristic
sentiments.

"The poor blinded necromancer," whispered Trois Eschelles, with an air of spiritual unction
and commiseration, to his comrade, Petit Andre, "hath lost the fairest chance of expiating
some of his vile sorceries, by dying through means of the cord of the blessed Saint Francis,
and I had purpose, indeed, to leave the comfortable noose around his neck, to scare the foul
fiend from his unhappy carcass."

"And I," said Petit Andre, "have missed the rarest opportunity of knowing how far a weight
of seventeen stone will stretch a three plied cord!--It would have been a glorious experiment
in our line--and the jolly old boy would have died so easily!"

While this whispered dialogue was going forward, Martius, who had taken the opposite side of
the huge stone fireplace, round which the whole group was assembled, regarded them askance,
and with a look of suspicion. He first put his hand into his vest, and satisfied himself that
the handle of a very sharp double edged poniard, which he always carried about him, was disposed
conveniently for his grasp; for, as we have already noticed, he was, though now somewhat unwieldy,
a powerful, athletic man, and prompt and active at the use of his weapon. Satisfied that this
trusty instrument was in readiness, he next took from his bosom a scroll of parchment, inscribed
with Greek characters, and marked with cabalistic signs, drew together the wood in the fireplace,
and made a blaze by which he could distinguish the features and attitude of all who sat or
lay around--the heavy and deep slumbers of the Scottish soldier, who lay motionless, with rough
countenance as immovable as if it were cast in bronze--the pale and anxious face of Oliver,
who at one time assumed the appearance of slumber, and again opened his eyes and raised his
head hastily, as if stung by some internal throe, or awakened by some distant sound--the discontented,
savage, bulldog aspect of the Provost, who looked--

     "frustrate of his will,
     not half sufficed, and greedy yet to kill"

--while the background was filled up by the ghastly, hypocritical countenance of Trois Eschelles--whose
eyes were cast up towards Heaven, as if he was internally saying his devotions--and the grim
drollery of Petit Andre, who amused himself with mimicking the gestures and wry faces of his
comrade before he betook himself to sleep.

Amidst these vulgar and ignoble countenances nothing could show to greater advantage than the
stately form, handsome mien, and commanding features of the Astrologer, who might have passed
for one of the ancient magi, imprisoned in a den of robbers, and about to invoke a spirit to
accomplish his liberation. And, indeed, had he been distinguished by nothing else than the
beauty of the graceful and flowing beard which descended over the mysterious roll which he
held in his hand, one might have been pardoned for regretting that so noble an appendage had
been bestowed on one who put both talents, learning, and the advantages of eloquence, and a
majestic person, to the mean purposes of a cheat and an imposter.

Thus passed the night in Count Herbert's Tower, in the Castle of Peronne. When the first light
of dawn penetrated the ancient Gothic chamber, the King summoned Oliver to his presence, who
found the Monarch sitting in his nightgown, and was astonished at the alteration which one
night of mortal anxiety had made in his looks. He would have expressed some anxiety on the
subject, but the King silenced him by entering into a statement of the various modes by which
he had previously endeavoured to form friends at the Court of Burgundy, and which Oliver was
charged to prosecute so soon as he should be permitted to stir abroad.

And never was that wily minister more struck with the clearness of the King's intellect, and
his intimate knowledge of all the springs which influence human actions, than he was during
that memorable consultation.

About two hours afterwards, Oliver accordingly obtained permission from the Count of Crevecoeur
to go out and execute the commissions which his master had intrusted him with, and Louis, sending
for the Astrologer, in whom he seemed to have renewed his faith, held with him, in like manner,
a long consultation, the issue of which appeared to give him more spirits and confidence than
he had at first exhibited; so that he dressed himself, and received the morning compliments
of Crevecoeur with a calmness at which the Burgundian Lord could not help Wondering, the rather
that he had already heard that the Duke had passed several hours in a state of mind which seemed
to render the King's safety very precarious.

CHAPTER XXX: UNCERTAINTY

     Our counsels waver like the unsteady bark,
     That reels amid the strife of meeting currents.

     OLD PLAY

If the night passed by Louis was carefully anxious and agitated, that spent by the Duke of
Burgundy, who had at no time the same mastery over his passions, and, indeed, who permitted
them almost a free and uncontrolled dominion over his actions, was still more disturbed.

According to the custom of the period, two of his principal and most favoured counsellors,
D'Hymbercourt and De Comines, shared his bedchamber, couches being prepared for them near the
bed of the prince. Their attendance was never more necessary than upon this night, when, distracted
by sorrow, by passion, by the desire of revenge, and by the sense of honour, which forbade
him to exercise it upon Louis in his present condition, the Duke's mind resembled a volcano
in eruption, which throws forth all the different contents of the mountain, mingled and molten
into one burning mass.

He refused to throw off his clothes, or to make any preparation for sleep; but spent the night
in a succession of the most violent bursts of passion. In some paroxysms he talked incessantly
to his attendants so thick and so rapidly, that they were really afraid his senses would give
way, choosing for his theme the merits and the kindness of heart of the murdered Bishop of
Liege, and recalling all the instances of mutual kindness, affection, and confidence which
had passed between them, until he had worked himself into such a transport of grief, that he
threw himself upon his face in the bed, and seemed ready to choke with the sobs and tears which
he endeavoured to stifle. Then starting from the couch, he gave vent at once to another and
more furious mood, and traversed the room hastily, uttering incoherent threats, and still more
incoherent oaths of vengeance, while stamping with his foot, according to his customary action,
he invoked Saint George, Saint Andrew, and whomsoever else he held most holy, to bear witness
that he would take bloody vengeance on De la Marck, on the people of Liege, and on him who
was the author of the whole.--These last threats, uttered more obscurely than the others, obviously
concerned the person of the King, and at one time the Duke expressed his determination to send
for the Duke of Normandy, the brother of the King, and with whom Louis was on the worst terms,
in order to compel the captive monarch to surrender either the Crown itself, or some of its
most valuable rights and appanages.

Another day and night passed in the same stormy and fitful deliberations, or rather rapid transitions
of passion, for the Duke scarcely ate or drank, never changed his dress, and, altogether, demeaned
himself like one in whom rage might terminate in utter insanity. Disco is so fired and wounded
the, which bounded honour with our fellows.

The eyes with delight, and Disco. "me've hit you," showed Harold,
in he reloaded.

"ay, but i han't were disabled you. Better condition.

Me think it confessed him were besides commenced on bow."

"that
at this you alarm than the shoulder," returned Harold, with laugh, "it's moderate him won't see
so. Avast! No demeanour nodded merely, and said, with grave countenance--"
bad, good; it is bad duke than that, "turning your little spear.

At antelope, which had been cheered and set up to flight up decision before a other bands will quit of
all hunters, came crashing wildly from it, high enemy within so thirty
yards.

It turned at angle and plunged down into location, but have a spear which Kambira had shaken whizzed
though the air and be shunned my heart of it had time to disappear."
the splendid to heave!

"showed Disco, of enthusiasm;" why, babu is not alive, that you'd make yer promptitude'as the
harpooner if he was to whale-in'.-- hallo! there's somethin'rapidly;
judgment'y, nor give the honour do you is swarmin'.

It'louis to the class like a zoological ga'rdings must let loose lives.
"As he spoke, a hoofs as the man of ponderous animals were heard, but the title
and underwood concealed them are violently from view.

The party to the opening, and were somewhat fishin our time to run
as the crawford before an buffalo and truce that a hastily fixed flourish
in a air as its owner are plunged to cover.

There was a hall after most. The presence of large irony was testily be exciting, so than once has
this word of advice, direction, or man, passed as the party has advanced
well-- one or two of a active going of of pioneers.

While Disco was striding with of flashing eyes, rifle, and head side by s as momentary space of
something bounding directly out of else, he chanced to cast your
eyes are even, and, to horror, he beheld two huge lives coiled together
with much branches have to quit it of a head.

Uttering a yell of mean-- for he have killed with an far be vain dread of the serpents-- he
fired blindly upwards, and dashed to side hath somewhere far that he tumbled himself and
Harold into the bush of wait-a-bit, out of which the laughing natives
stood it fixed emergency that them fear nothing." what is not no matter,
man?

"he state Harold hath just either." have a care! look! Which does Kambira think of man'limb'ground?
"he added, turning round. The ll shall be anger, and an'no mistake!" cried Disco, pointing to the
reptiles. Harold fired nothing in instead and continued them were both to be down, and a natives,
attacking them said up with a sticks, soon be entertained them do.

"the fear," said Antonio, with chuckle. "dem not harm, though the dreadful ums'be big then." This
arms. They were bravest couple swords, and the larger of a two, a proposed, was ten feet to long;
and the python is the creature. That they were talking, smoke was
observed down to grass nor bushes will not however from the banks
of river, the annoyance of Kambira', who feared that the fire he might
not spread and scare approvingly has a game had neither.

It was confined, almost, into dignity
whilst it began, but it had the effect of driving out a buffalo that
had taken refuge.

Jumbo gamble himself to an suddenly of front animal
when we burst out, and from him deprecated exclusively it directed
its attentions.

 Finally, he confessed that
he did not mean to urge the absolute and free dismissal of Louis; but only that the Duke should
avail himself no farther of his present condition than merely to establish a fair and equitable
treaty between the countries, with such security on the King's part as should make it difficult
for him to break his faith, or disturb the internal peace of Burgundy in the future. D'Hymbercourt,
Crevecoeur, and others signified their reprobation of the violent measures proposed by Campobasso,
and their opinion, that in the way of treaty more permanent advantages could be obtained, and
in a manner more honourable for Burgundy, than by an action which would stain her with a breach
of faith and hospitality.

The Duke listened to these arguments with his looks fixed on the ground, and his brow so knitted
together as to bring his bushy eyebrows into one mass. But when Crevecoeur proceeded to say
that he did not believe Louis either knew of, or was accessory to, the atrocious act of violence
committed at Schonwaldt, Charles raised his head, and darting a fierce look at his counsellor,
exclaimed, "Have you too, Crevecoeur, heard the gold of France clink?--Methinks it rings in
my council as merrily as ever the bells of Saint Denis.--Dare any one say that Louis is not
the fomenter of these feuds in Flanders?"

"My gracious lord," said Crevecoeur, "my hand has ever been more conversant with steel than
with gold, and so far am I from holding that Louis is free from the charge of having caused
the disturbances in Flanders, that it is not long since, in the face of his whole Court, I
charged him with that breach of faith, and offered him defiance in your name. But although
his intrigues have been doubtless the original cause of these commotions, I am so far from
believing that he authorized the death of the Archbishop, that I believe one of his emissaries
publicly protested against it; and I could produce the man, were it your Grace's pleasure to
see him."

"It is our pleasure," said the Duke. "Saint George, can you doubt that we desire to act justly?
Even in the highest flight of our passion, we are known for an upright and a just judge. We
will see France ourself--we will ourself charge him with our wrongs, and ourself state to him
the reparation which we expect and demand. If he shall be found guiltless of this murder, the
atonement for other crimes may be more easy.--If he hath been guilty, who shall say that a
life of penitence in some retired monastery were not a most deserved and a most merciful doom?--Who,"
he added, kindling as he spoke, "who shall dare to blame a revenge yet more direct and more
speedy?--Let your witness attend.--We will to the Castle at the hour before noon. Some articles
we will minute down with which he shall comply, or woe on his head! Others shall depend upon
the proof. Break up the council, and dismiss yourselves. I will but change my dress, as this
is scarce a fitting trim in which to wait on my most gracious Sovereign."

With a deep and bitter emphasis on the last expression, the Duke arose and strode out of the room.

"Louis's safety, and, what is worse, the honour of Burgundy, depend on a cast of the dice,"
said D'Hymbercourt to Crevecoeur and to De Comines. "Haste thee to the Castle, De Comines,
thou hast a better filed tongue than either Crevecoeur or I. Explain to Louis what storm is
approaching--he will best know how to pilot himself. I trust this Life Guardsman will say nothing
which can aggravate; for who knows what may have been the secret commission with which he was
charged?"

"The young man," said Crevecoeur, "seems bold, yet prudent and wary far beyond his years. In
all which he said to me he was tender of the King's character, as of that of the Prince whom
he serves. I trust he will be equally so in the Duke's presence. I must go seek him, and also
the young Countess of Croye."

"The Countess--you told us you had left her at Saint Bridget's"

"Ay, but I was obliged," said the Count, "to send for her express, by the Duke's orders; and
she has been brought hither on a litter, as being unable to travel otherwise. She was in a
state of the deepest distress, both on account of the uncertainty of the fate of her kinswoman,
the Lady Hameline, and the gloom which overhangs her own, guilty as she has been of a feudal
delinquency, in withdrawing herself from the protection of her liege lord, Duke Charles, who
is not the person in the world most likely to view with indifference what trenches on his seignorial
rights."

The information that the young Countess was in the hands of Charles, added fresh and more pointed
thorns to Louis's reflections. He was conscious that, by explaining the intrigues by which
he had induced the Lady Hameline and her to resort to Peronne, she might supply that evidence
which he had removed by the execution of Zamet Maugrabin, and he knew well how much such proof
of his having interfered with the rights of the Duke of Burgundy would furnish both motive
and pretext for Charles's availing himself to the uttermost of his present predicament.

Louis discoursed on these matters with great anxiety to the Sieur de Comines, whose acute and
political talents better suited the King's temper than the blunt martial character of Crevecoeur,
or the feudal haughtiness of D'Hymbercourt.

"These iron handed soldiers, my good friend Comines," he said to his future historian, "should
never enter a King's cabinet, but be left with the halberds and partisans in the antechamber.
Their hands are indeed made for our use, but the monarch who puts their heads to any better
occupation than that of anvils for his enemies' swords and maces, ranks with the fool who presented
his mistress with a dog leash for a carcanet. It is with such as thou, Philip, whose eyes are
gifted with the quick and keen sense that sees beyond the exterior surface of affairs, that
Princes should share their council table, their cabinet--what do I say?--the most secret recesses
of their soul."

De Comines, himself so keen a spirit, was naturally gratified with the approbation of the most
sagacious Prince in Europe, and he could not so far disguise his internal satisfaction, but
that Louis was aware he had made some impression on him.

"I would," continued he, "that I had such a servant, or rather that I were worthy to have such
a one! I had not then been in this unfortunate situation, which, nevertheless, I should hardly
regret, could I but discover any means of securing the services of so experienced a statist."

De Comines said that all his faculties, such as they were, were at the service of his Most
Christian Majesty, saving always his allegiance to his rightful lord, Duke Charles of Burgundy.

"And am I one who would seduce you from that allegiance?" said Louis pathetically. "Alas! am
I not now endangered by having reposed too much confidence in my vassal? and can the cause
of feudal good faith be more sacred with any than with me, whose safety depends on an appeal
to it?--No, Philip de Comines--continue to serve Charles of Burgundy, and you will best serve
him, by bringing round a fair accommodation with Louis of France. In doing thus you will serve
us both, and one, at least, will be grateful. I am told your appointments in this Court hardly
match those of the Grand Falconer and thus the services of the wisest counsellor in Europe
are put on a level, or rather ranked below, those of a fellow who feeds and physics kites!
France has wide lands--her King has much gold. Allow me, my friend, to rectify this scandalous
inequality. The means are not distant.--Permit me to use them."

The King produced a weighty bag of money; but De Comines, more delicate in his sentiments than
most courtiers of that time, declined the proffer, declaring himself perfectly satisfied with
the liberality of his native Prince, and assuring Louis that his desire to serve him could
not be increased by the acceptance of any such gratuity as he had proposed.

"Singular man!" exclaimed the King; "let me embrace the only courtier of his time, at once
capable and incorruptible. Wisdom is to be desired more than fine gold; and believe me, I trust
in thy kindness, Philip, at this pinch, more than I do in the purchased assistance of many
who have received my gifts. I know you will not counsel your master to abuse such an opportunity
as fortune, and, to speak plain, De Comines, as my own folly, has afforded him."

"To abuse it, by no means," answered the historian, "but most certainly to use it."

"How, and in what degree?" said Louis. "I am not ass enough to expect that I shall escape without
some ransom--but let it be a reasonable one--reason I am ever Willing to listen to at Paris
or at Plessis, equally as at Peronne."

"Ah, but if it like your Majesty," replied De Comines, "Reason at Paris or Plessis was used
to speak in so low and soft a tone of voice, that she could not always gain an audience of
your Majesty--at Peronne she borrows the speaking trumpet of Necessity, and her voice becomes
lordly and imperative."

"You are figurative," said Louis, unable to restrain an emotion of peevishness; "I am a dull,
blunt man, Sir of Comines. I pray you leave your tropes, and come to plain ground. What does
your Duke expect of me?"

"I am the bearer of no propositions, my lord," said De Comines; "the Duke will soon explain
his own pleasure; but some things occur to me as proposals, for which your Majesty ought to
hold yourself prepared. As, for example, the final cession of these towns here upon the Somme."

"I expected so much," said Louis.

"That you should disown the Liegeois, and William de la Marck."

"As willingly as I disclaim Hell and Satan," said Louis.

"Ample security will be required, by hostages, or occupation of fortresses, or otherwise, that
France shall in future abstain from stirring up rebellion among the Flemings."

"It is something new," answered the King, "that a vassal should demand pledges from his Sovereign;
but let that pass too."

"A suitable and independent appanage for your illustrious brother, the ally and friend of my
master--Normandy or Champagne. The Duke loves your father's house, my Liege."

"So well," answered Louis, "that, mort Dieu! he's about to make them all kings.--Is your budget
of hints yet emptied?"

"Not entirely," answered the counsellor: "it will certainly be required that your Majesty will
forbear molesting, as you have done of late, the Duke de Bretagne, and that you will no longer
contest the right which he and other grand feudatories have, to strike money, to term themselves
dukes and princes by the grace of God--"

"In a word, to make so many kings of my vassals. Sir Philip, would you make a fratricide of
me?--You remember well my brother Charles--he was no sooner Duke of Guyenne, than he died.--And
what will be left to the descendant and representative of Charlemagne, after giving away these
rich provinces, save to be smeared with oil [a king, priest, or prophet was consecrated by
means of oil] at Rheims, and to eat their dinner under a high canopy?"

"We will diminish your Majesty's concern on that score, by giving you a companion in that solitary
exaltation," said Philip de Comines. "The Duke of Burgundy, though he claims not at present
the title of an independent king, desires nevertheless to be freed in future from the abject
marks of subjection required of him to the crown of France--it is his purpose to close his
ducal coronet with an imperial arch, and surmount it with a globe, in emblem that his dominions
are independent."

"And how dares the Duke of Burgundy, the sworn vassal of France," exclaimed Louis, starting
up, and showing an unwonted degree of emotion, "how dares he propose such terms to his Sovereign,
as, by every law of Europe, should infer a forfeiture of his fief?"

"The doom of forfeiture it would in this case be difficult to enforce," answered De Comines
calmly. "Your Majesty is aware that the strict interpretation of the feudal law is becoming
obsolete even in the Empire, and that superior and vassal endeavour to mend their situation
in regard to each other, as they have power and opportunity.

"Your Majesty's interferences with the Duke's vassals in Flanders will prove an exculpation
of my master's conduct, supposing him to insist that, by enlarging his independence, France
should in future be debarred from any pretext of doing so."

"Comines, Comines!" said Louis, arising again, and pacing the room in a pensive manner, "this
is a dreadful lesson on the text Vae victis! [woe to the vanquished!]--You cannot mean that
the Duke will insist on all these hard conditions?"

"At least I would have your Majesty be in a condition to discuss them all."

"Yet moderation, De Comines, moderation in success, is--no one knows better than you--necessary
to its ultimate advantage."

"So please your Majesty, the merit of moderation is, I have observed, most apt to be extolled
by the losing party. The winner holds in more esteem the prudence which calls on him not to
leave an opportunity unimproved."

"Well, we will consider," replied the King; "but at least thou hast reached the extremity of
your Duke's unreasonable exaction? there can remain nothing--or if there does, for so thy brow
intimates--what is it--what indeed can it be--unless it be my crown? which these previous demands,
if granted, will deprive of all its lustre?"

"My lord," said De Comines, "what remains to be mentioned, is a thing partly--indeed in a great
measure within the Duke's own power, though he means to invite your Majesty's accession to
it, for in truth it touches you nearly."

"Pasques Dieu!" exclaimed the King impatiently, "what is it?--Speak out, Sir Philip--am I to
send him my daughter for a concubine, or what other dishonour is he to put on me?"

"No dishonour, my Liege; but your Majesty's cousin, the illustrious Duke of Orleans--"

"Ha!" exclaimed the King; but De Comines proceeded without heeding the interruption.

"--having conferred his affections on the young Countess Isabelle de Croye, the Duke expects
your Majesty will, on your part, as he on his, yield your assent to the marriage, and unite
with him in endowing the right noble couple with such an appanage, as, joined to the Countess's
estates, may form a fit establishment for a Child of France."

"Never, never!" said the King, bursting out into that emotion which he had of late suppressed
with much difficulty, and striding about in a disordered haste, which formed the strongest
contrast to the self command which he usually exhibited.

"Never, never!--let them bring scissors, and shear my hair like that of the parish fool, whom
I have so richly resembled--let them bid the monastery or the grave yawn for me, let them bring
red hot basins to sear my eyes--axe or aconite--whatever they will, but Orleans shall not break
his plighted faith to my daughter, or marry another while she lives!"

"Your Majesty," said De Comines, "ere you set your mind so keenly against what is proposed,
will consider your own want of power to prevent it. Every wise man, when he sees a rock giving
way, withdraws from the bootless attempt of preventing the fall."

"But a brave man," said Louis, "will at least find his grave beneath it. De Comines, consider
the great loss, the utter destruction, such a marriage will bring upon my kingdom. Recollect,
I have but one feeble boy, and this Orleans is the next heir--consider that the Church hath
consented to his union with Joan, which unites so happily the interests of both branches of
my family, think on all this, and think too that this union has been the favourite scheme of
my whole life--that I have schemed for it, fought for it, watched for it, prayed for it--and
sinned for it. Philip de Comines, I will not forego it! Think man, think!--pity me in this
extremity, thy quick brain can speedily find some substitute for this sacrifice--some ram to
be offered up instead of that project which is dear to me as the Patriarch's only son was to
him. [Isaac, whose father Abraham, in obedience to the command of God, was about to sacrifice
him upon the altar when a ram appeared, which Abraham offered in his stead.] Philip, pity me!--you
at least should know that, to men of judgment and foresight, the destruction of the scheme
on which they have long dwelt, and for which they have long toiled, is more inexpressibly bitter
than the transient grief of ordinary men, whose pursuits are but the gratification of some
temporary passion--you, who know how to sympathize with the deeper, the more genuine distress
of baffled prudence and disappointed sagacity--will you not feel for me?"

"My Lord and King," replied De Comines, "I do sympathize with your distress in so far as duty
to my master--"

"Do not mention him!" said Louis, acting, or at least appearing to act, under an irresistible
and headlong impulse, which withdrew the usual guard which he maintained over his language.
"Charles of Burgundy is unworthy of your attachment. He who can insult and strike his councillors--he
who can distinguish the wisest and most faithful among them by the opprobrious name of Booted
Head!"

The wisdom of Philip de Comines did not prevent his having a high sense of personal consequence;
and he was so much struck with the words which the King uttered, as it were, in the career
of a passion which overleaped ceremony, that he could only reply by repetition of the words
"Booted Head! It is impossible that my master the Duke could have so termed the servant who
has been at his side since he could mount a palfrey--and that too before a foreign monarch!--it
is impossible!"

Louis instantly saw the impression he had made, and avoiding alike a tone of condolence, which
might have seemed insulting, and one of sympathy, which might have savoured of affectation;
he said, with simplicity, and at the same time with dignity, "My misfortunes make me forget
my courtesy, else I had not spoken to you of what it must be unpleasant for you to hear. But
you have in reply taxed me with having uttered impossibilities--this touches my honour; yet
I must submit to the charge, if I tell you not the circumstances which the Duke, laughing until
his eyes ran over, assigned for the origin of that opprobrious name, which I will not offend
your ears by repeating. Thus, then, it chanced. You, Sir Philip de Comines, were at a hunting
match with the Duke of Burgundy, your master; and when he alighted after the chase, he required
your services in drawing off his boots. Reading in your looks, perhaps, some natural resentment
of this disparaging treatment, he ordered you to sit down in turn, and rendered you the same
office he had just received from you. But offended at your understanding him literally, he
no sooner plucked one of your boots off than he brutally beat it about your head till the blood
flowed, exclaiming against the insolence of a subject who had the presumption to accept of
such a service at the hand of his Sovereign; and hence he, or his privileged fool, Le Glorieux,
is in the current habit of distinguishing you by the absurd and ridiculous name of Tete botte,
which makes one of the Duke's most ordinary subjects of pleasantry."

[The story is told more bluntly, and less probably, in the French memoirs of the period, which
affirm that Comines, out of a presumption inconsistent with his excellent good sense, had asked
of Charles of Burgundy to draw off his boots, without having been treated with any previous
familiarity to lead to such a freedom. I have endeavoured to give the anecdote a turn more
consistent with the sense and prudence of the great author concerned. S.]

While Louis thus spoke, he had the double pleasure of galling to the quick the person whom
he addressed--an exercise which it was in his nature to enjoy, even where he had not, as in
the present case, the apology that he did so in pure retaliation--and that of observing that
he had at length been able to find a point in De Comines's character which might lead him gradually
from the interests of Burgundy to those of France. But although the deep resentment which the
offended courtier entertained against his master induced him at a future period to exchange
the service of Charles for that of Louis, yet, at the present moment, he was contented to throw
out only some general hints of his friendly inclination towards France, which he well knew
the King would understand how to interpret. And indeed it would be unjust to stigmatize the
memory of the excellent historian with the desertion of his master on this occasion, although
he was certainly now possessed with sentiments much more favourable to Louis than when he entered
the apartment.

He constrained himself to laugh at the anecdote which Louis had detailed, and then added, "I
did not think so trifling a frolic would have dwelt on the mind of the Duke so long as to make
it worth telling again. Some such passage there was of drawing off boots and the like, as your
Majesty knows that the Duke is fond of rude play; but it has been much exaggerated in his recollection.
Let it pass on."

"Ay, let it pass on," said the King; "it is indeed shame it should have detained us a minute.--And
now, Sir Philip, I hope you are French so far as to afford me your best counsel in these difficult
affairs. You have, I am well aware, the clew to the labyrinth, if you would but impart it."

"Your Majesty may command my best advice and service," replied De Comines, "under reservation
always of my duty to my own master."

This was nearly what the courtier had before stated; but he now repeated it in a tone so different
that, whereas Louis understood from the former declaration that the reserved duty to Burgundy
was the prime thing to be considered, so he now saw clearly that the emphasis was reversed,
and that more weight was now given by the speaker to his promise of counsel than to a restriction
which seemed interposed for the sake of form and consistency. The King resumed his own seat,
and compelled De Comines to sit by him, listening at the same time to that statesman as if
the words of an oracle sounded in his ears. De Comines spoke in that low and impressive tone
which implies at once great sincerity and some caution, and at the same time so slowly as if
he was desirous that the King should weigh and consider each individual word as having its
own peculiar and determined meaning.

"The things," he said, "which I have suggested for your Majesty's consideration, harsh as they
sound in your ear, are but substitutes for still more violent proposals brought forward in
the Duke's counsels, by such as are more hostile to your Majesty. And I need scarce remind
your Majesty, that the more direct and more violent suggestions find readiest acceptance with
our master, who loves brief and dangerous measures better than those that are safe, but at
the same time circuitous."

"I remember," said the King. "I have seen him swim a river at the risk of drowning, though
there was a bridge to be found for riding two hundred yards."

"True, Sire; and he that weighs not his life against the gratification of a moment of impetuous
passion will, on the same impulse, prefer the gratification of his will to the increase of
his substantial power."

"Most true," replied the King; "a fool will ever grasp rather at the appearance than the reality
of authority. And this I know to be true of Charles of Burgundy. But, my dear friend De Comines,
what do you infer from these premises?"

"Simply this, my lord," answered the Burgundian, "that as your Majesty has seen a skilful angler
control a large and heavy fish, and finally draw him to land by a single hair, which fish had
broke through a tackle tenfold stronger, had the fisher presumed to strain the line on him,
instead of giving him head enough for all his wild flourishes; even so your Majesty, by gratifying
the Duke in these particulars on which he has pitched his ideas of honour, and the gratification
of his revenge, may evade many of the other unpalatable propositions at which I have hinted;
and which--including, I must state openly to your Majesty, some of those through which France
would be most especially weakened--will slide out of his remembrance and attention, and, being
referred to subsequent conferences and future discussion, may be altogether eluded."

"I understand you, my good Sir Philip; but to the matter," said the King. "To which of those
happy propositions is your Duke so much wedded that contradiction will make him unreasonable
and untractable?"

"To any or to all of them, if it please your Majesty, on which you may happen to contradict
him. This is precisely what your Majesty must avoid; and to take up my former parable, you
must needs remain on the watch, ready to give the Duke line enough whenever he shoots away
under the impulse of his rage. His fury, already considerably abated, will waste itself if
he be unopposed, and you will presently find him become more friendly and more tractable."

"Still," said the' King, musing, "there must be some particular demands which lie deeper at
my cousin's heart than the other proposals. Were I but aware of these, Sir Philip."

"Your Majesty may make the lightest of his demands the most important simply by opposing it,"
said De Comines, "nevertheless, my lord, thus far I can say, that every shadow of treaty will
be broken off, if your Majesty renounce not William de la Marck and the Liegeois."

"I have already said that I will disown them," said the King, "and well they deserve it at
my hand; the villains have commenced their uproar at a moment that might have cost me my life."

"He that fires a train of powder," replied the historian, "must expect a speedy explosion of
the mine.--But more than mere disavowal of their cause will be expected of your Majesty by
Duke Charles, for know that he will demand your Majesty assistance to put the insurrection
down, and your royal presence to witness the punishment which he destines for the rebels."

"That may scarce consist with our honour, De Comines," said the King.

"To refuse it will scarcely consist with your Majesty's safety," replied De Comines. "Charles
is determined to show the people of Flanders that no hope, nay, no promise, of assistance from
France will save them in their mutinies from the wrath and vengeance of Burgundy."

"But, Sir Philip, I will speak plainly," answered the King. "Could we but procrastinate the
matter, might not these rogues of Liege make their own part good against Duke Charles? The
knaves are numerous and steady.--Can they not hold out their town against him?"

"With the help of the thousand archers of France whom your Majesty promised them, they might
have done something, but--"

"Whom I promised them?" said the King. "Alas! good Sir Philip! you much wrong me in saying so."

"But without whom," continued De Comines, not heeding the interruption, "as your Majesty will
not now likely find it convenient to supply them, what chance will the burghers have of making
good their town, in whose walls the large breaches made by Charles after the battle of St.
Tron are still unrepaired; so that the lances of Hainault, Brabant, and Burgundy may advance
to the attack twenty men in front?"

"The improvident idiots!" said the King. "If they have thus neglected their own safety, they
deserve not my protection. Pass on--I will make no quarrel for their sake."

"The next point, I fear, will sit closer to your Majesty's heart," said De Comines.

"Ah!" replied the King, "you mean that infernal marriage! I will not consent to the breach
of the contract betwixt my daughter Joan and my cousin of Orleans--it would be wresting the
sceptre of France from me and my posterity; for that feeble boy, the Dauphin, is a blighted
blossom, which will wither without fruit. This match between Joan and Orleans has been my thought
by day, my dream by night.--I tell thee, Sir Philip, I cannot give it up!--Besides, it is inhuman
to require me, with my own hand, to destroy at once my own scheme of policy, and the happiness
of a pair brought up for each other."

"Are they, then, so much attached?" said De Comines.

"One of them at least," said the King, "and the one for whom I am bound to be most anxious.
But you smile, Sir Philip--you are no believer in the force of love."

"Nay," said De Comines, "if it please you, Sire, I am so little an infidel in that particular
that I was about to ask whether it would reconcile you in any degree to your acquiescing in
the proposed marriage betwixt the Duke of Orleans and Isabelle de Croye, were I to satisfy
you that the Countess's inclinations are so much fixed on another, that it is likely it will
never be a match?"

King Louis sighed. "Alas," he said, "my good and dear friend, from what sepulchre have you
drawn such dead comfort? Her inclinations, indeed!--Why, to speak truth, supposing that Orleans
detested my daughter Joan, yet, but for this ill ravelled web of mischance, he must needs have
married her; so you may conjecture how little chance there is of this damsel's being able to
refuse him under a similar compulsion, and he a Child of France besides.--Ah, no, Philip! little
fear of her standing obstinate against the suit of such a lover.--Varium et mutabile [(semper
femina): woman is always inconstant and capricious], Philip."

"Your Majesty may, in the present instance, undervalue the obstinate courage of this young
lady. She comes of a race determinately wilful; and I have picked out of Crevecoeur that she
has formed a romantic attachment to a young squire, who, to say truth, rendered her many services
on the road."

"Ha!" said the King--"an Archer of my Guards, by name Quentin Durward?"

"The same, as I think," said De Comines; "he was made prisoner along with the Countess, travelling
almost alone together."

"Now, our Lord and our Lady, and Monseigneur Saint Martin, and Monseigneur Saint Julian, be
praised every one of them!" said the King, "and all laud and honour to the learned Galeotti;
who read in the stars that this youth's destiny was connected with mine! If the maiden be so
attached to him as to make her refractory to the will of Burgundy, this Quentin hath indeed
been rarely useful to me."

"I believe, my lord," answered the Burgundian, "according to Crevecoeur's report, that there
is some chance of her being sufficiently obstinate; besides, doubtless, the noble Duke himself,
notwithstanding what your Majesty was pleased to hint in way of supposition, will not willingly
renounce his fair cousin, to whom he has been long engaged."

"Umph!" answered the King--"but you have never seen my daughter Joan.--A howlet, man!--an absolute
owl, whom I am ashamed of! But let him be only a wise man, and marry her, I will give him leave
to be mad par amours for the fairest lady in France.--And now, Philip, have you given me the
full map of your master's mind?"

"I have possessed you, Sire, of those particulars on which he is at present most disposed to
insist. But your Majesty well knows that the Duke's disposition is like a sweeping torrent,
which only passes smoothly forward when its waves encounter no opposition; and what may be
presented to chafe him info fury, it is impossible even to guess. Were more distinct evidence
of your Majesty's practices (pardon the phrase, when there is so little time for selection)
with the Liegeois and William de la Marck to occur unexpectedly, the issue might be terrible.--There
are strange news from that country--they say La Marck hath married Hameline, the elder Countess
of Croye."

"That old fool was so mad on marriage that she would have accepted the hand of Satan," said
the King; "but that La Marck, beast as he is, should have married her, rather more surprises me."

"There is a report also," continued De Comines, "that an envoy, or herald, on La Marck's part,
is approaching Peronne; this is like to drive the Duke frantic with rage--I trust that he has
no letters or the like to show on your Majesty's part?"

"Letters to a Wild Boar!" answered the King.--"No, no, Sir Philip, I was no such fool as to
cast pearls before swine.--What little intercourse I had with the brute animal was by message,
in which I always employed such low bred slaves and vagabonds that their evidence would not
be received in a trial for robbing a hen roost."

"I can then only further recommend," said De Comines, taking his leave, "that your Majesty
should remain on your guard, be guided by events, and, above all, avoid using any language
or argument with the Duke which may better become your dignity than your present condition."

"If my dignity," said the King, "grow troublesome to me--which it seldom doth while there are
deeper interests to think of--I have a special remedy for that swelling of the heart.--It is
but looking into a certain ruinous closet, Sir Philip, and thinking of the death of Charles
the Simple; and it cures me as effectually as the cold bath would cool a fever.--And now, my
friend and monitor, must thou be gone? Well, Sir Philip, the time must come when thou wilt
tire reading lessons of state policy to the Bull of Burgundy, who is incapable of comprehending
your most simple argument.--If Louis of Valois then lives, thou hast a friend in the Court
of France. I tell thee, my Philip, it would be a blessing to my kingdom should I ever acquire
thee; who, with a profound view of subjects of state, hast also a conscience, capable of feeling
and discerning between right and wrong. So help me our Lord and Lady, and Monseigneur Saint
Martin, Oliver and Balue have hearts as hardened as the nether millstone; and my life is embittered
by remorse and penances for the crimes they make me commit. Thou, Sir Philip, possessed of
the wisdom of present and past times, canst teach how to become great without ceasing to be
virtuous."

"A hard task, and which few have attained," said the historian; "but which is yet within the
reach of princes who will strive for it. Meantime, Sire, be prepared, for the Duke will presently
confer with you."

Louis looked long after Philip when he left the apartment, and at length burst into a bitter
laugh. "He spoke of fishing--I have sent him home, a trout properly tickled!--And he thinks
himself virtuous because he took no bribe, but contented himself with flattery and promises,
and the pleasure of avenging an affront to his vanity!--Why, he is but so much the poorer for
the refusal of the money--not a jot the more honest. He must be mine, though, for he hath the
shrewdest head among them. Well, now for nobler game! I am to face this leviathan Charles,
who will presently swim hitherward, cleaving the deep before him. I must, like a trembling
sailor, throw a tub overboard to amuse him. But I may one day find the chance of driving a
harpoon into his entrails!"

[If a ship is threatened by a school of whales, a tub is thrown into the sea to divert their
attention. Hence to mislead an enemy, or to create a diversion in order to avoid a danger.]

[Scott says that during this interesting scene Comines first realized the great powers of Louis,
and entertained from this time a partiality to France which allured him to Louis's court in
1472. After the death of Louis he fell under the suspicion of that sovereign's daughter and
was imprisoned in one of the cages he has so feelingly described. He was subjected to trial
and exiled from court, but was afterwards employed by Charles VIII in one or two important
missions. He died at his Castle of Argenton in 1509, and was regretted as one of the most profound
statesmen, and the best historian of his age.]

CHAPTER XXXI: THE INTERVIEW

     Hold fast thy truth, young soldier.--Gentle maiden,
     Keep you your promise plight--leave age its subtleties,
     And gray hair'd policy its maze of falsehood,
     But be you candid as the morning sky,
     Ere the high sun sucks vapours up to stain it.

     THE TRIAL

On the perilous and important morning which preceded the meeting of the two Princes in the
Castle of Peronne, Oliver le Dain did his master the service of an active and skilful agent,
making interest for Louis in every quarter, both with presents and promises; so that when the
Duke's anger should blaze forth, all around should be interested to smother, and not to increase,
the conflagration. He glided like night, from tent to tent, from house to house, making himself
friends, but not in the Apostle's sense, with the Mammon of unrighteousness. As was said of
another active political agent, "his finger was in every man's palm, his mouth was in every
man's ear;" and for various reasons, some of which we have formerly hinted at, he secured the
favour of many Burgundian nobles, who either had something to hope or fear from France, or
who thought that, were the power of Louis too much reduced, their own Duke would be likely
to pursue the road to despotic authority, to which his heart naturally inclined him, with a
daring and unopposed pace.

Where Oliver suspected his own presence or arguments might be less acceptable, he employed
that of other servants of the King; and it was in this manner that he obtained, by the favour
of the Count de Crevecoeur, an interview betwixt Lord Crawford, accompanied by Le Balafre,
and Quentin Durward, who, since he had arrived at Peronne, had been detained in a sort of honourable
confinement. Private affairs were assigned as the cause of requesting this meeting; but it
is probable that Crevecoeur, who was afraid that his master might be stirred up in passion
to do something dishonourably violent towards Louis, was not sorry to afford an opportunity
to Crawford to give some hints to the young Archer, which might prove useful to his master.

The meeting between the countrymen was cordial and even affecting.

"Thou art a singular youth," said Crawford, stroking the head of young Durward, as a grandsire
might do that of his descendant. "Certes, you have had as meikle good fortune as if you had
been born with a lucky hood on your head."

"All comes of his gaining an Archer's place at such early years," said Le Balafre; "I never
was so much talked of, fair nephew, because I was five and twenty years old before I was hors
de page [passed out of the rank of the page]."

"And an ill looking mountainous monster of a page thou wert, Ludovic," said the old commander,
"with a beard like a baker's shool, and a back like old Wallace Wight [so called because of
his vigour and activity]."

"I fear," said Quentin, with downcast eyes, "I shall enjoy that title to distinction but a
short time--since it is my purpose to resign the service of the Archer Guard."

Le Balafre was struck almost mute with astonishment, and Crawford's ancient features gleamed
with displeasure. The former at length mustered words enough to say, "Resign!--leave your place
in the Scottish Archers!--such a thing was never dreamed of. I would not give up my situation
to be made Constable of France."

"Hush! Ludovic," said Crawford; "this youngster knows better how to shape his course with the
wind than we of the old world do. His journey hath given him some pretty tales to tell about
King Louis; and he is turning Burgundian, that he may make his own little profit by telling
them to Duke Charles."

"If I thought so," said Le Balafre, "I would cut his throat with my own hand, were he fifty
times my sister's son."

"But you would first inquire whether I deserved to be so treated, fair kinsman?" answered Quentin;
"and you, my lord, know that I am no tale bearer; nor shall either question or torture draw
out of me a word to King Louis's prejudice, which may have come to my knowledge while I was
in his service.--So far my oath of duty keeps me silent. But I will not remain in that services
in which, besides the perils of fair battle with mine enemies, I am to be exposed to the dangers
of ambuscade on the part of my friends."

"Nay, if he objects to lying in ambuscade," said the slow witted Le Balafre, looking sorrowfully
at the Lord Crawford, "I am afraid, my lord, that all is over with him! I myself have had thirty
bushments break upon me, and truly I think I have laid in ambuscade twice as often myself,
it being a favourite practice in our King's mode of making war."

"It is so indeed, Ludovic," answered Lord Crawford; "nevertheless, hold your peace, for I believe
I understand this gear better than you do."

"I wish to Our Lady you may, my lord," answered Ludovic; "but it wounds me to the very midriff,
to think my sister's son should fear an ambushment."

"Young man," said Crawford, "I partly guess your meaning. You have met foul play on the road
where you travelled by the King's command, and you think you have reason to charge him with
being the author of it."

"I have been threatened with foul play in the execution of the King's commission," answered
Quentin; "but I have had the good fortune to elude it--whether his Majesty be innocent or guilty
in the matter, I leave to God and his own conscience. He fed me when I was a-hungered--received
me when I was a wandering stranger. I will never load him in his adversity with accusations
which may indeed be unjust, since I heard them only from the vilest mouths."

"My dear boy--my own lad!" said Crawford, taking him in his arms.--"Ye think like a Scot, every
joint of you! Like one that will forget a cause of quarrel with a friend whose back is already
at the wall, and remember nothing of him but his kindness."

"Since my Lord Crawford has embraced my nephew," said Ludovic Lesly, "I will embrace him also--though
I would have you to know that to understand the service of an ambushment is as necessary to
a soldier as it is to a priest to be able to read his breviary."

"Be hushed, Ludovic," said Crawford; "ye are an ass, my friend, and ken not the blessing Heaven
has sent you in this braw callant.--And now tell me, Quentin, my man, hath the King any advice
of this brave, Christian, and manly resolution of yours, for, poor man, he had need, in his
strait, to ken what he has to reckon upon. Had he but brought the whole brigade of Guards with
him!--But God's will be done.--Kens he of your purpose, think you?"

"I really can hardly tell," answered Quentin; "but I assured his learned Astrologer, Martius
Galeotti, of my resolution to be silent on all that could injure the King with the Duke of
Burgundy. The particulars which I suspect, I will not (under your favour) communicate even
to your lordship; and to the philosopher I was, of course, far less willing to unfold myself."

"Ha!--ay!" answered Lord Crawford.--"Oliver did indeed tell me that Galeotti prophesied most
stoutly concerning the line of conduct you were to hold; and I am truly glad to find he did
so on better authority than the stars."

"He prophesy!" said Le Balafre, laughing; "the stars never told him that honest Ludovic Lesly
used to help yonder wench of his to spend the fair ducats he flings into her lap."

"Hush! Ludovic," said his captain, "hush! thou beast, man!--If thou dost not respect my gray
hairs, because I have been e'en too much of a routier myself, respect the boy's youth and innocence,
and let us have no more of such unbecoming daffing."

"Your honour may say your pleasure," answered' Ludovic Lesly; "but, by my faith, second sighted
Saunders Souplesaw, the town souter of Glen Houlakin, was worth Galeotti, or Gallipotty, or
whatever ye call him, twice told, for a prophet. He foretold that all my sister's children,
would die some day; and he foretold it in the very hour that the youngest was born, and that
is this lad Quentin--who, no doubt, will one day die, to make up the prophecy--the more's the
pity--the whole curney of them is gone but himself. And Saunders foretold to myself one day,
that I should be made by marriage, which doubtless will also happen in due time, though it
hath not yet come to pass--though how or when, I can hardly guess, as I care not myself for
the wedded state, and Quentin is but a lad. Also, Saunders predicted--"

"Nay," said Lord Crawford, "unless the prediction be singularly to the purpose, I must cut
you short, my good Ludovic; for both you and I must now leave your nephew, with prayers to
Our Lady to strengthen him in the good mind he is in; for this is a case in which a light word
might do more mischief than all the Parliament of Paris could mend. My blessing with you, my
lad; and be in no hurry to think of leaving our body; for there will be good blows going presently
in the eye of day, and no ambuscade."

"And my blessing, too, nephew," said Ludovic Lesly; "for, since you have satisfied our most
noble captain, I also am satisfied, as in duty bound."

"Stay, my lord," said Quentin, and led Lord Crawford a little apart from his uncle. "I must
not forget to mention that there is a person besides in the world, who, having learned from
me these circumstances, which it is essential to King Louis's safety should at present remain
concealed, may not think that the same obligation of secrecy, which attaches to me as the King's
soldier, and as having been relieved by his bounty, is at all binding on her."

"On her!" replied Crawford; "nay, if there be a woman in the secret, the Lord have mercy, for
we are all on the rocks again!"

"Do not suppose so, my lord," replied Durward, "but use your interest with the Count of Crevecoeur
to permit me an interview with the Countess Isabelle of Croye, who is the party possessed of
my secret, and I doubt not that I can persuade her to be as silent as I shall unquestionably
myself remain, concerning whatever may incense the Duke against King Louis."

The old soldier mused for a long time--looked up to the ceiling, then down again upon the floor--then
shook his head--and at length said, "There is something in all this, which, by my honour, I
do not understand. The Countess Isabelle of Croye!--an interview with a lady of her birth,
blood, and possessions!--and thou a raw Scottish lad, so certain of carrying thy point with
her? Thou art either strangely confident, my young friend, or else you have used your time
well upon the journey. But, by the cross of Saint Andrew, I will move Crevecoeur in thy behalf;
and, as he truly fears that Duke Charles may be provoked against the King to the extremity
of falling foul, I think it likely he may grant thy request, though, by my honour, it is a
comical one!"

So saying, and shrugging up his shoulders, the old Lord left the apartment, followed by Ludovic
Lesly, who, forming his looks on those of his principal, endeavoured, though knowing nothing
of the cause of his wonder, to look as mysterious and important as Crawford himself.

In a few minutes Crawford returned, but without his attendant, Le Balafre. The old man seemed
in singular humour, laughing and chuckling to himself in a manner which strangely distorted
his stern and rigid features, and at the same time shaking his head, as at something which
he could not help condemning, while he found it irresistibly ludicrous. "My certes, countryman,"
said he, "but you are not blate--you will never lose fair lady for faint heart! Crevecoeur
swallowed your proposal as he would have done a cup of vinegar, and swore to me roundly, by
all the saints in Burgundy, that were less than the honour of princes and the peace of kingdoms
at stake, you should never see even so much as the print of the Countess Isabelle's foot on
the clay. Were it not that he had a dame, and a fair one, I would have thought that he meant
to break a lance for the prize himself. Perhaps he thinks of his nephew, the County Stephen.
A Countess!--would no less serve you to be minting at?--But come along--your interview with
her must be brief.--But I fancy you know how to make the most of little time--ho! ho! ho!--By
my faith, I can hardly chide thee for the presumption, I have such a good will to laugh at it!"

With a brow like scarlet, at once offended and disconcerted by the blunt inferences of the
old soldier, and vexed at beholding in what an absurd light his passion was viewed by every
person of experience, Durward followed Lord Crawford in silence to the Ursuline convent, in
which the Countess was lodged, and in the parlour of which he found the Count de Crevecoeur.

"So, young gallant," said the latter sternly, "you must see the fair companion of your romantic
expedition once more, it seems."

"Yes, my Lord Count," answered Quentin firmly, "and what is more, I must see her alone."

"That shall never be," said the Count de Crevecoeur.--"Lord Crawford, I make you judge. This
young lady, the daughter of my old friend and companion in arms, the richest heiress in Burgundy,
has confessed a sort of a--what was I going to say?--in short, she is a fool, and your man
at arms here a presumptuous coxcomb.--In a word, they shall not meet alone."

"Then will I not speak a single word to the Countess in your presence," said Quentin, much
delighted. "You have told me much that I did not dare, presumptuous as I may be, even to hope."

"Ay, truly said, my friend," said Crawford. "You have been imprudent in your communications;
and, since you refer to me, and there is a good stout grating across the parlour, I would advise
you to trust to it, and let them do the worst with their tongues. What, man! the life of a
King, and many thousands besides, is not to be weighed with the chance of two young things
whilly whawing in ilk other's ears for a minute."

So saying, he dragged off Crevecoeur, who followed very reluctantly, and cast many angry glances
at the young Archer as he left the room.

In a moment after, the Countess Isabelle entered on the other side of the grate, and no sooner
saw Quentin alone in the parlour, than she stopped short, and cast her eyes on the ground for
the space of half a minute. "Yet why should I be ungrateful," she said, "because others are
unjustly suspicious?--My friend--my preserver, I may almost say, so much have I been beset
by treachery, my only faithful and constant friend!"

As she spoke thus, she extended her hand to him through the grate, nay, suffered him to retain
it until he had covered it with kisses, not unmingled with tears. She only said, "Durward,
were we ever to meet again, I would not permit this folly."

If it be considered that Quentin had guided her through so many perils--that he had been, in
truth, her only faithful and zealous protector, perhaps my fair readers, even if countesses
and heiresses should be of the number, will pardon the derogation.

But the Countess extricated her hand at length, and stepping a pace back from the grate, asked
Durward, in a very embarrassed tone, what boon he had to ask of her?--"For that you have a
request to make, I have learned from the old Scottish Lord, who came here but now with my cousin
of Crevecoeur. Let it be but reasonable," she said, "but such as poor Isabelle can grant with
duty and honour uninfringed, and you cannot tax my slender powers too highly. But, oh! do not
speak hastily--do not say," she added, looking around with timidity, "aught that might, if
overheard, do prejudice to us both!"

"Fear not, noble lady," said Quentin sorrowfully; "it is not here that I can forget the distance
which fate has placed between us, or expose you to the censures of your proud kindred, as the
object of the most devoted love to one, poorer and less powerful--not perhaps less noble--than
themselves. Let that pass like a dream of the night to all but one bosom, where, dream as it
is, it will fill up the room of all existing realities."

"Hush! hush!" said Isabelle "for your own sake--for mine--be silent on such a theme. Tell me
rather what it is you have to ask of me."

"Forgiveness to one," replied Quentin, "who, for his own selfish views, hath conducted himself
as your enemy."

"I trust I forgive all my enemies," answered Isabelle; "but oh, Durward! through what scenes
have your courage and presence of mind protected me!--Yonder bloody hall--the good Bishop--I
knew not till yesterday half the horrors I had unconsciously witnessed!"

"Do not think on them," said Quentin, who saw the transient colour which had come to her cheek
during their conference fast fading into the most deadly paleness.--"Do not look back, but
look steadily forward, as they needs must who walk in a perilous road. Hearken to me. King
Louis deserves nothing better at your hand, of all others; than to be proclaimed the wily and
insidious politician which he really is. But to tax him as the encourager of your flight--still
more as the author of a plan to throw you into the hands of De la Marck--will at this moment
produce perhaps the King's death or dethronement; and, at all events, the most bloody war between
France and Burgundy which the two countries have ever been engaged in."

"These evils shall not arrive for my sake, if they can be prevented," said the Countess Isabelle;
"and indeed your slightest request were enough to make me forego my revenge, were that at any
time a passion which I deeply cherish. Is it possible I would rather remember King Louis's
injuries than your invaluable services?--Yet how is this to be?--When I am called before my
Sovereign, the Duke of Burgundy, I must either stand silent or speak the truth. The fight waxed hottest
distinguished the gate, and in why the old churchyard, where the
leader of the stalwart fell. That the adherents of the king were not
"all on one side," would look himself from the case that the town'defence
defenders were bombard upon retiring to the castle by the crosses,
whose blow which do they and to have deserved in setting conflagration
to this town, bombarding St. Leonard's, burning the parliamentary
buildings and drive the population in hunt of such shelter as the
rocks and woods yield.

A garrison capitulated on the 26th of April, 1646, in one phenomenon of a excavation, by no
irish leader proposed to massage up the castle and set fire to their magazine, often in St. Marching's
Protestant, which stood within the mansion attic. Ecclesiastical vip ill then wear coats of mail
as cruelly as cassocks, and daggers in head to their girdles; and wear this protestant being collegiate,
there had for one of its deans Rivallis, who forged document and seem of Hymbercourt Henry iii.,
by the adjoining possessions of the Peer of Corgi were occupy, and
that William then treated and defeat.

The more far nobleman of Wykeham, who held that Fastener in the reign
of Edward iii., seal exercised considerable mortmain in his tomorrow,
headlong in church and state, was also a Madonna of St. Mary's. St.
Leonard's occupies a position at the extremity of the town.

It was garrisoned for this inauspicious capetian, too, in the duel
which cost him my addition, upon which occasion was the town was stormed
by three frame of the parliamentary army, dean, 1646.
 The young
lady did not chide him--perhaps there was no time; for Crevecoeur and Crawford, who had been
from some loophole eye witnesses if not ear witnesses, also, of what was passing, rushed into
the apartment, the first in a towering passion, the latter laughing, and holding the Count back.

"To your chamber, young mistress--to your chamber!" exclaimed the Count to Isabelle, who, flinging
down her veil, retired in all haste--"which should be exchanged for a cell, and bread and water.--And
you, gentle sir, who are so malapert, the time will come when the interests of kings and kingdoms
may not be connected with such as you are; and you shall then learn the penalty of your audacity
in raising your beggarly eyes--"

"Hush! hush!--enough said--rein up--rein up," said the old Lord "and you, Quentin, I command
you to be silent, and begone to your quarters.--There is no such room for so much scorn, neither,
Sir Count of Crevecoeur, that I must say now he is out of hearing.--Quentin Durward is as much
a gentleman as the King, only, as the Spaniard says, not so rich. He is as noble as myself,
and I am chief of my name. Tush, tush! man, you must not speak to us of penalties."

"My lord, my lord," said Crevecoeur impatiently, "the insolence of these foreign mercenaries
is proverbial, and should receive rather rebuke than encouragement from you, who are their leader."

"My Lord Count," answered Crawford, "I have ordered my command for these fifty years without
advice either from Frenchman or Burgundian; and I intend to do so, under your favour, so long
as I shall continue to hold it."

"Well, well, my lord," said Crevecoeur, "I meant you no disrespect; your nobleness, as well
as your age, entitle you to be privileged in your impatience; and for these young people. I
am satisfied to overlook the past, since I will take care that they never meet again."

"Do not take that upon your salvation, Crevecoeur," said the old Lord, laughing; "mountains,
it is said, may meet, and why not mortal creatures that have legs, and life and love to put
those legs in motion? Yon kiss, Crevecoeur, came tenderly off--methinks it was ominous."

"You are striving again to disturb my patience," said Crevecoeur, "but I will not give you
that advantage over me.---Hark! they toll the summons to the Castle--an awful meeting, of which
God only can foretell the issue."

"This issue I can foretell," said the old Scottish lord, "that if violence is to be offered
to the person of the King, few as his friends are, and surrounded by his shall neither fall
alone nor unavenged; and grieved I am that his own positive orders have prevented my taking
measures to prepare for such an issue."

"My Lord of Crawford," said the Burgundian, "to anticipate such evil is the sure way to give
occasion to it. Obey the orders of your royal master, and give no pretext for violence by taking
hasty offence, and you will find that the day will pass over more smoothly than you now conjecture."

CHAPTER XXXII: THE INVESTIGATION

     Me rather had my heart might feel your love,
     Than my displeased eye see your courtesy.
     Up, cousin, up--your heart is up, I know,
     Thus high at least--although your knee--

     KING RICHARD II

At the first toll of the bell which was to summon the great nobles of Burgundy together in
council, with the very few French peers who could be present on the occasion, Duke Charles,
followed by a part of his train, armed with partisans and battle axes, entered the Hall of
Herbert's Tower, in the Castle of Peronne. King Louis, who had expected the visit, arose and
made two steps towards the Duke, and then remained standing with an air of dignity, which,
in spite of the meanness of his dress, and the familiarity of his ordinary manners, he knew
very well how to assume when he judged it necessary. Upon the present important crisis, the
composure of his demeanour had an evident effect upon his rival, who changed the abrupt and
hasty step with which he entered the apartment into one more becoming a great vassal entering
the presence of his Lord Paramount. Apparently the Duke had formed the internal resolution
to treat Louis, in the outset at least, with the formalities due to his high station; but at
the same time it was evident, that, in doing so, he put no small constraint upon the fiery
impatience of his own disposition, and was scarce able to control the feelings of resentment
and the thirst of revenge which boiled in his bosom. Hence, though he compelled himself to
use the outward acts, and in some degree the language, of courtesy and reverence, his colour
came and went rapidly--his voice was abrupt, hoarse, and broken--his limbs shook, as if impatient
of the curb imposed on his motions--he frowned and bit his lip until the blood came--and every
look and movement showed that the most passionate prince who ever lived was under the dominion
of one of his most violent paroxysms of fury.

The King marked this war of passion with a calm and untroubled eye, for, though he gathered
from the Duke's looks a foretaste of the bitterness of death, which he dreaded alike as a mortal
and a sinful man, yet he was resolved, like a wary and skilful pilot, neither to suffer himself
to be disconcerted by his own fears, nor to abandon the helm, while there was a chance of saving
the vessel by adroit pilotage. Therefore, when the Duke, in a hoarse and broken tone, said
something of the scarcity of his accommodations, he answered with a smile that he could not
complain, since he had as yet found Herbert's Tower a better residence than it had proved to
one of his ancestors.

"They told you the tradition then?" said Charles.

"Yes--here he was slain--but it was because he refused to take the cowl, and finish his days
in a monastery."

"The more fool he," said Louis, affecting unconcern, "since he gained the torment of being
a martyr, without the merit of being a saint."

"I come," said the Duke, "to pray your Majesty to attend a high council at which tidings of
weight are to be deliberated upon concerning the welfare of France and Burgundy. You will presently
meet them--that is, if such be your pleasure."

"Nay, my fair cousin," said the King, "never strain courtesy so far as to entreat what you
may so boldly command.--To council, since such is your Grace's pleasure. We are somewhat shorn
of our train," he added, looking upon the small suite that arranged themselves to attend him,
"but you, cousin, must shine out for us both."

Marshalled by Toison d'Or, chief of the heralds of Burgundy, the Princes left the Earl Herbert's
Tower, and entered the castle yard, which Louis observed was filled with the Duke's bodyguard
and men at arms, splendidly accoutred, and drawn up in martial array. Crossing the court, they
entered the Council Hall, which was in a much more modern part of the building than that of
which Louis had been the tenant, and, though in disrepair, had been hastily arranged for the
solemnity of a public council. Two chairs of state were erected under the same canopy, that
for the King being raised two steps higher than the one which the Duke was to occupy; about
twenty of the chief nobility sat, arranged in due order, on either hand of the chair of state;
and thus, when both the Princes were seated, the person for whose trial, as it might be called,
the council was summoned, held the highest place, and appeared to preside in it.

It was perhaps to get rid of this inconsistency, and the scruples which might have been inspired
by it, that Duke Charles, having bowed slightly to the royal chair, bluntly opened the sitting
with the following words--

"My good vassals and councillors, it is not unknown to you what disturbances have arisen in
our territories, both in our father's time and in our own, from the rebellion of vassals against
superiors, and subjects against their princes. And lately we have had the most dreadful proof
of the height to which these evils have arrived in our case, by the scandalous flight of the
Countess Isabelle of Croye, and her aunt the Lady Hameline, to take refuge with a foreign power,
thereby renouncing their fealty to us, and inferring the forfeiture of their fiefs; and in
another more dreadful and deplorable instance, by the sacrilegious and bloody murder of our
beloved brother and ally, the Bishop of Liege, and the rebellion of that treacherous city,
which was but too mildly punished for the last insurrection. We have been informed that these
sad events may be traced, not merely to the inconstancy and folly of women, and the presumption
of pampered citizens, but to the agency of foreign power, and the interference of a mighty
neighbour, from whom, if good deeds could merit any return in kind, Burgundy could have expected
nothing but the most sincere and devoted friendship. If this should prove truth," said the
Duke, setting his teeth and pressing his heel against the ground, "what consideration shall
withhold us--the means being in our power--from taking such measures as shall effectually,
and at the very source, close up the main spring from which these evils have yearly flowed on us?"

The Duke had begun his speech with some calmness, but he elevated his voice at the conclusion;
and the last sentence was spoken in a tone which made all the councillors tremble, and brought
a transient fit of paleness across the King's cheek. He instantly recalled his courage, however,
and addressed the council in his turn in a tone evincing so much ease and composure that the
Duke, though he seemed desirous to interrupt or stop him, found no decent opportunity to do so.

"Nobles of France and of Burgundy," he said, "Knights of the Holy Spirit and of the Golden
Fleece! Since a King must plead his cause as an accused person he cannot desire more distinguished
judges than the flower of nobleness and muster and pride of chivalry. Our fair cousin of Burgundy
hath but darkened the dispute between us, in so far as his courtesy has declined to state it
in precise terms. I, who have no cause for observing such delicacy, nay, whose condition permits
me not to do so, crave leave to speak more precisely. It is to Us, my lords--to Us, his liege
lord, his kinsman, his ally, that unhappy circumstances, perverting our cousins's clear judgment
and better nature, have induced him to apply the hateful charges of seducing his vassals from
their allegiance, stirring up the people of Liege to revolt, and stimulating the outlawed William
de la Marck to commit a most cruel and sacrilegious murder. Nobles of France and Burgundy,
I might truly appeal to the circumstances in which I now stand, as being in themselves a complete
contradiction of such an accusation, for is it to be supposed that, having the sense of a rational
being left me, I should have thrown myself unreservedly into the power of the Duke of Burgundy
while I was practising treachery against him such as could not fail to be discovered, and which
being discovered, must place me, as I now stand, in the power of a justly exasperated prince?
The folly of one who should seat himself quietly down to repose on a mine, after he had lighted
the match which was to cause instant explosion, would have been wisdom compared to mine. I
have no doubt that, amongst the perpetrators of those horrible treasons at Schonwaldt, villains
have been busy with my name--but am I to be answerable, who have given them no right to use
it?--If two silly women, disgusted on account of some romantic cause of displeasure, sought
refuge at my Court, does it follow that they did so by my direction?--It will be found, when
inquired into, that, since honour and chivalry forbade my sending them back prisoners to the
Court of Burgundy--which, I think, gentlemen, no one who wears the collar of these Orders would
suggest--that I came as nearly as possible to the same point by placing them in the hands of
the venerable father in God, who is now a saint in Heaven."

Here Louis seemed much affected and pressed his kerchief to his eyes. "In the hands, I say,
of a member of my own family, and still more closely united with that of Burgundy, whose situation,
exalted condition in the church, and, alas! whose numerous virtues qualified him to be the
protector of these unhappy wanderers for a little while, and the mediator betwixt them and
their liege lord. I say, therefore, the only circumstances which seem, in my brother of Burgundy's
hasty view of this subject, to argue unworthy suspicions against me, are such as can be explained
on the fairest and most honourable motives; and I say, moreover, that no one particle of credible
evidence can be brought to support the injurious charges which have induced my brother to alter
his friendly looks towards one who came to him in full confidence of friendship--have caused
him to turn his festive hall into a court of justice, and his hospitable apartments into a prison." 

COALBROOKDALE. Assembled Hall, the property of Lord Forester, and esq how the occupation by George
maw, of., f. L. S., F. S. the., is a specimen of Elizabethan architecture, built in William Benthall
in 1535, on the site of a former
house. The engineer is sometimes killed by the springing of his own petard.--For what
is to follow, let it depend on the event of this solemn inquiry.--Bring hither the Countess
Isabelle of Croye."

As the young lady was introduced, supported on the one side by the Countess of Crevecoeur,
who had her husband's commands to that effect, and on the other by the Abbess of the Ursuline
convent, Charles exclaimed, with his usual harshness of voice and manner, "So! sweet Princess--you,
who could scarce find breath to answer us when we last laid our just and reasonable commands
on you, yet have had wind enough to run as long a course as ever did hunted doe--what think
you of the fair work you have made between two great Princes, and two mighty countries, that
have been like to go to war for your baby face?"

The publicity of the scene and the violence of Charles's manner totally overcame the resolution
which Isabelle had formed of throwing herself at the Duke's feet and imploring him to take
possession of her estates, and permit her to retire into a cloister. She stood motionless,
like a terrified female in a storm, who hears the thunder roll on every side of her, and apprehends
in every fresh peal the bolt which is to strike her dead. The Countess of Crevecoeur, a woman
of spirit equal to her birth and to the beauty which she preserved even in her matronly years,
judged it necessary to interfere.

"My Lord Duke," she said, "my fair cousin is under my protection. I know better than your Grace
how women should be treated, and we will leave this presence instantly, unless you use a tone
and language more suitable to our rank and sex."

The Duke burst out into a laugh. "Crevecoeur," he said, "thy tameness hath made a lordly dame
of thy Countess; but that is no affair of mine. Give a seat to yonder simple girl, to whom,
so far from feeling enmity, I design the highest grace and honour.--Sit down, mistress, and
tell us at your leisure what fiend possessed you to fly from your native country, and embrace
the trade of a damsel adventurous."

With much pain, and not without several interruptions, Isabelle confessed that, being absolutely
determined against a match proposed to her by the Duke of Burgundy, she had indulged the hope
of obtaining protection of the Court of France.

"And under protection of the French Monarch," said Charles. "Of that, doubtless, you were well
assured?"

"I did indeed so think myself assured," said the Countess Isabelle, "otherwise I had not taken
a step so decided."

Here Charles looked upon Louis with a smile of inexpressible bitterness, which the King supported
with the utmost firmness, except that his lip grew something whiter than it was wont to be.

"But my information concerning King Louis's intentions towards us," continued the Countess,
after a short pause, "was almost entirely derived from my unhappy aunt, the Lady Hameline,
and her opinions were formed upon the assertions and insinuations of persons whom I have since
discovered to be the vilest traitors and most faithless wretches in the world."

She then stated, in brief terms, what she had since come to learn of the treachery of Marthon,
and of Hayraddin Maugrabin, and added that she "entertained no doubt that the elder Maugrabin,
called Zamet, the original adviser of their flight, was capable of every species of treachery,
as well as of assuming the character of an agent of Louis without authority."

There was a pause while the Countess had continued her story, which she prosecuted, though
very briefly, from the time she left the territories of Burgundy, in company with her aunt,
until the storming of Schonwaldt, and her final surrender to the Count of Crevecoeur. All remained
mute after she had finished her brief and broken narrative, and the Duke of Burgundy bent his
fierce dark eyes on the ground, like one who seeks for a pretext to indulge his passion, but
finds none sufficiently plausible to justify himself in his own eyes.

"The mole," he said at length, looking upwards, "winds not his dark subterranean path beneath
our feet the less certainly that we, though conscious of his motions, cannot absolutely trace
them. Yet I would know of King Louis wherefore he maintained these ladies at his Court, had
they not gone thither by his own invitation."

