Annals and Reminiscences of Jamaica Plain

By Harriet Manning Whitcomb

Cambridge

1897

This sketch was prepared by request to be read before the Jamaica Plain Ladies' Tuesday Club.
Subsequently a desire was expressed to have it put in a more permanent form and offered for
sale at a Fair for the Jamaica Plain Indian Association. Although personally reluctant to appear
before the public in this way, I have allowed my desire to aid a good cause and give pleasure
to my friends who have kindly received my paper to influence me in its publication.

I am indebted to "The Memorial History of Boston" to Drake's "Town of Roxbury," to Dr. Thomas
Gray's "Half-Century Sermon," and to the memory of a few of the older residents for some dates
and incidents given.

If any of these should prove to be inaccurate, I must rely upon the charity and courtesy of
my readers for only indulgent criticism.H.M.W.

ANNALS AND REMINISCENCES OF JAMAICA PLAINTo collect and review the circumstances and events
which have made our homes and those of our ancestors for many generations is more than a pleasant
service. We find an interest and fascination in every step of the way, leading us, as it does,
into one of the most delightful portions of our country, and introducing us to not a few of
the most refined and cultivated, as well as distinguished people of New England.

There is ever a charm about old-fashioned people and places, as about old books and pictures,
antique furniture and china; they affect us by the very contrast they afford with ourselves
and our surroundings, even though it is with a touch of pathos and sadness.

Long years ago a much-traveled man, who knew the country well, said, "Jamaica Plain is the
Eden of America." He was not a Bostonian, and our village was still a part of Roxbury, so that
the suggestion of conceit and boasting over this small portion of "the Hub" could not be imputed
to him.

It has often seemed to us that the loving, favoring smile of heaven rested peculiarly upon
our plain, environed as it is by gently rising hills, which, with their robes of verdure and
noble trees, shelter it from harsh winds, and hold it in the warmth and freedom of a pure health-giving
atmosphere. Our charming lake, covering more than sixty-five acres, nestles like a gem in its
western borders, mirroring forms and colors, all of beauty, and holds upon its banks some of
the most delightful of our homes.

In early days it gave of its clear, soft waters for the needs of the neighboring city;  while
through the eastern portion of our village the quiet Stony River made glad the farms and yielded
power for mill and factory.

We find that the name originally given to out village was Pond Plain, but as early as 1667,
it is referred to in an official paper as the "Jamaica End of the Town of Roxbury."

There are differing opinions as to the origin of the present name; some have so far reflected
upon our colonial ancestors as to intimate that a decided fondness for Jamaica rum suggested
it, and it is doubtless true that the punch bowl had other uses than to be simply ornamental
on the sideboards of our grandsires. Others, however, believe that it was given to commemorate
Cromwell's acquisition of the island of Jamaica, in 1670, which secured to Boston numerous
very valuable products. There seems, to us, to be a peculiar appropriateness to the name, as
it signified in Indian "Isle of Springs," because if the brooks and springs which abound here,
making the land verdant and fertile. If we cannot to-day boast of grand and stately castles,
reared in the olden time, as in the mother country, with guarding moats and bastions, loopholes
for crossbows and guns, -- silent testimonials of opulence and power, -- we yet can bring to
view pictures of many a dwelling, gray and brown with weather stains and lichens and folds
of ivy, which have held within their walls of oak and cedar people and events whose records
thrill our hearts with patriotic pride or affectionate reverence.

In early times our village was chiefly an agricultural community, and the cultivation of fruits
and vegetables for the city supply was the specialty; but here and there were elegant countryseats
occupied by government officials, professional and literary men, and city merchants. Some of
these homes and people we hope to see, by favoring records and memory's aid, this afternoon.

Until within a short time, near the Boylston Station, stood a very ancient building, with a
pitched roof in the rear sloping nearly to the ground, known as the "Curtis Homestead." It
is claimed that this was one of the oldest houses in our country, and that, in 1639,  William
Curtis made a clearing in the forest for it, using timbers in its construction from his felled
trees. The record is that William Curtis marries Sarah Eliot, sister of Rev. John Eliot, in
Nazing, England, in 1618, and that, in 1632, they came with their four children to Boston,
and it is believed that most of those who bear the name of Curtis in our country are direct
descendants of this William and Sarah. For about two hundred and fifty years this house was
the home of the Curtises, the last occupants being the widow and children of Isaac, seventh
in descent from William.

During the siege of Boston, troops were quartered here and added their record of strife and
suffering to that of domestic peace and happiness, in which the "Apostle Eliot" and his estimable
wife often shared; and possibly Winthrop, Pynchon, and the Dudleys, and others whose names
stand as pioneers of religious liberty in New England.

Emerson aptly said, "There has never been a clearing made in a forest, that did not let in
the light on heroes and heroines."

A few years since, the march of improvement, so called, obliterated this genuine relic of colonial
days, with the fine old elm, which for more that a century had shaded it and wafted kindly
breezes over it.

Although we have no knowledge that the Apostle Eliot ever lived in the "Jamaica End of Roxbury,"
he is closely identified with our early history and development, and deserves more than a passing
notice. In 1689 he gave some seventy-five acres of land, including the tract lying from Orchard
to Thomas, and from Centre to Pond streets, "the income from which was to be used for the support
of a school and a schoolmaster." The street, hall, and schoolhouse, which bear his name, commemorate
his generous gift. This noble man stands out in those early days as a beacon of godliness,
for education, and for trust in philanthropy. Perhaps, in no sphere of his remarkable life
does he more command our admiration and reverence that as the friend of the Indian and the
Negro. His untiring zeal and self-denying labors on their behalf entitle him to be called "the
Apostle."

In a letter to a friend in 1659, he writes: "Pity for the poor Indian, and desire to make the
name of Christ chief in these dark ends of the earth, and not the rewards of men, were the
very first and chief movers in my heart." Nor can we question that these were the all controlling
motives, when we consider that after acquiring their language, by the aid of a young Pequot,
he translated the entire Bible into their tongue, besides a Psalter, primers, grammars, a and
other useful books; and all this in addition to faithfully fulfilling the duties of minister
of the First Church in Roxbury for fifty-eight years, a record of devotion, diligence, and
scholarship almost unequaled.

One has beautifully summed up his life in these words:  "His missionary zeal was not less that
Saint Paul's, his charity was as sweet as that of Saint Francis d'Assisi, and his whole life
a testimony that the call to saintliness has not ceased and the possibility of it has not died
out." Eliot lived to see the fruits of his devoted work in the changed character and life of
many Indians. More than two centuries have elapsed since this leader on the Indian cause went
to his reward, but his mantle rests to-day on some here who deeply feel the need and love that
work in behalf of the poor Indian.

In 1663 our Centre Street was laid out and called the Dedham road or highway, being a direct
route from Boston, by way of "the Neck" and Roxbury Street, to Dedham. At that time and for
more than one hundred and fifty years after traveling was by horseback, by private carriage,
and by the stagecoach. Those who were unable to own horses or pay stage fares walked to and
from Boston, often heavily laden.

The accommodation stages would stop for passengers along the route, blowing a horn as they
approached the dwelling, wherever a signal had been placed for them. The express stages, used
chiefly by business men, running from Providence and the New York boat, took no heavy baggage,
required double pay, and made stops only as they needed relays of horses. Four such changes
were made from Providence to Boston, and the journey was completed in about four hours. In
1826 the first Jamaica Plain hourlies   began to run; the fare was twenty-five cents. They
started from Mr. Joshua Seaver's store, and would call for passengers in any part of the village
as requested in the order-box.

Mr. Seaver's store, established in 1796, stood on slightly elevated ground farther back from
the street than the one now occupied by his grandsons, and connected with his dwelling.

Here, also, was the village post-office for many years, and the favorite meeting-place of the
townspeople to discuss local interests, indulge in pleasantries, as well as exchange their
coins for fine groceries, small wares, and farming utensils. Our grandparents of that day folded
their quarto sheets, sealed, stamped, and addressed them, and paid twelve and one-half cents
for the privilege of sending then on their mission.  The advent of the two-cent postage stand
and the one-cent card was not then dreamed of.

Entering Centre Street at the Railroad bridge, frequently confounded with the historic Hog's
Bridge, which formerly spanned Stony Brook near Heath Street, we see on the right all that
remains of the once extensive and very beautiful estate of the Lowells, a family among the
most honored in our State for character, learning, and culture. The original house, built of
stone in the latter part of the last century, was modeled from an old castle in Europe, and
became the property of Judge John Lowell in 1785, who resided here until his death in 1802.
He was President of the Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture, and his extensive
grounds were largely devoted to the cultivation of a variety of the finest fruits and plants.
His son, Hon. John Lowell, inherited this estate and the talent and fondness for horticulture
and agriculture, and added several fine glass houses, which he filled with rare and beautiful
plants, many of them imported from Europe and other foreign lands. He erected the present commodious
mansion. The aged lady who occupied the house until recently was a sister of Dr. Charles Lowell,
once minister of the West Church, Boston, and father of Hon. James Russell Lowell. The Lowell
Institute for free lectures on scientific, literary, and religious theses was founded by John
Lowell, Jr.

In 1834, the Boston and Providence Railroad cut through this estate, and from time to time
other innovations have despoiled it of its grandeur and beauty.

We pass several ancient houses, with associations doubtless dear to the descendants of their
first owners, but unknown to use, and come to Hyde's Square, and the intersection of Centre,
Perkins, and Day streets. The triangle in the center, bordered with shade trees, had a valuable
landmark on it, not a dwelling, but an old pump, which, if it could voice its memories, would
tell is interesting tales of weary, dusty travelers, in vehicles, on horseback, and on foot,
of state-coach horses, and those heavy-laden teams from far away, to which it had given its
cooling, refreshing waters, through nearly every day and hour of bygone years.

And now, after a few rods, we come to the well-preserved old farmhouse, the Joseph Curtis homestead,
built in 1722 by Samuel Curtis, grandson of the first William, for his son Joseph. A descendant
with the same name, and fifth in line from William, now resides here, while the broad acres
adjoining, bordering the street with graceful elms, smile with the fruits of careful husbandry,
and afford ample space for the beautiful homes of four generations of the same family. During
the war of the Revolution troops, from Rhode Island, under General Greene, used this house
for barracks, the family willingly giving up its space and comforts for their accommodation.

On the corner of Centre and Boylston streets one is attracted by a quaint and picturesque dwelling,
in style and setting one is the most interesting of the older houses in our town, which tells
the story of its age on one of its chimneys, 1738 being the date. It was erected by Captain
Benjamin Hallowell, who married a Miss Boylston, of Boston, whose family was prominent in its
early history. He was a hot-headed, active loyalist, and commissioner of His Majesty's customs,
as well as mandamus councilor, which facts made him obnoxious to the public, and in 1775, during
the siege of Boston, he found it wise hastily to vacate his house and seek refuge in the city.
The house was then appropriated by the patriotic troops doe a hospital, and some of the soldiers
who died were buried in the lot in the rear of the house. Later the property was confiscated
by the State, and, in 1791, bought by Dr. Leprilete, who resided here until his death. He also
was buried in the garden, and a memorial tablet marked the grave until the remains were removed
to a cemetery. Upon the death of Captain Hallowell in England, his widow reclaimed the estate.
His son, Nicholas Ward, then took his mother's name of Boylston and inherited the property.
Mr. Boylston was a gentleman of true culture, education, and philanthropy, making valuable
donations to Harvard College, and to several schools. He is justly honored by having his name
perpetuated not only by our street and district, but by a bank, market, school and street in
the city proper. Dr. Benjamin F. Wing purchased this property in 1845, and it has remained
in his family to the present time.

In 1797, just one hundred years ago, was erected the stately brick mansion which, with the
ample grounds extending to the pond, was called "Lakeville." Mr. Du Ballet first resided here;
later it was the home of Horatio Greenough, the sculptor, and it is said that he carved his
celebrated group, "The Chanting Cherubs," while living here. In 1840 Lakeville Place was opened,
dividing this estate, and later made beautiful by the several residences upon it. Since 1842,
the Lakeville Mansion has been the home of Mr. Thomas Seaverns and Family. The inception of
the Episcopal Church in our village was largely due to Mr. Charles Beaumont, father of Mr.
Frank Beaumont, who resided in the Lakeville mansion in 1833. The first services were held
here, and later in the Village Hall on Thomas Street, Rev. Mr. Howe of St. James Church, Roxbury,
officiating. In 1840 a lot of land was purchased of Mr. Charles Beaumont on the site of the
present St. John Street, and a chapel built which was consecrated on 1841 by Bishop Griswold.
The rectory was completed in 1849, and "was paid for, in large part, with money raised by the
exertion of the Ladies' League." Many of us remember the attractive avenue, bordered with greensward
and graceful elms, which led to the little brown church and rectory, the retirement of its
situation seeming to be suited to its purpose of worship and quietness. The membership was
very small at first, but in a few years it became the church home of some of the most influential
people on our town. Rev. E.F. Slafter was the first regularly settled rector, assuming his
duties September 1846. The beautiful stone edifice erected upon land bequeathed by General
William H. Sumner, son of Governor Increase Sumner, was ready for the enlarged church congregation
in 1882.

General Sumner's old residence on the hill near the present church is beautiful in situation,
and still very attractive.

Near the north corner of Pond Lane was built in 1732, a plain, comfortable house by Benjamin
May, great grandson of Captain John May, one of the earliest settlers of our village. Captain
John Parker married the daughter of Benjamin May, and afterwards resided here for many years
which accounts for its still holding the name of the "Old Parker house." Here were the high-decorated
wooden mantels over large chimney-places, the paneled wainscoting and ornamental cornices,
which adorned many of the better houses of that period. The grounds were ample, extending to
the pond and covered with a variety of fine fruit and shade trees. Now crowded by modern buildings
into the background, deprived of its garden gray with weather stains, this old house shows
few signs of its birthright. About the middle of this century the small cottage still standing
on the lot adjoining the Parker house was the quiet home of two much esteemed old ladies, Mrs.
Shepard and her daughter Abby. Miss Abigail P. Shepard died October 4, 1878 at 82 years of
age. The mother was then totally blind, but possessed the sweet contentment which not even
so great a deprivation and trial could affect. Miss Abby devoted the little front room to a
store for small wares, school children's utensils, and candies and it was the delight of the
girls and boys to leave their coppers there in exchange for her good things.

Some of you may recall an episode connected with this home which might have had a tragic ending.
Because of the unprotected condition, and the drawer in which the small receipts from the store
were kept and unworthy young man, belonging to our village, planned a midnight entrance. Miss
Abby heard the window raised, and, in her night robe and cap, faced the intruder, just as he
entered the room. She dragged the surprised and struggling man into the front room, and held
him fast, meanwhile calling loudly for help. The aged mother secured a window stick and dealt
unerring blows upon the youth. After a desperate struggle, he escaped carrying a window frame
and many bruises with him, but no money. The neighbors were aroused by Miss Shepard's cried
and came to her relief.

We may safely say that not since the days of the Revolution had the midnight silence and peace
of the village been disturbed by so exciting an experience. The friends of Miss Shepard presented
her with a large, illustrated Bible in appreciation of her courage and bravery.

On the west corner of Pond and Centre streets stands a large mansion house of colonial style,
with an air of quiet dignity, in the midst of attractive grounds. In the early days it was
called "Linden Hall," doubtless because of the magnificent linden-trees which lined the walk
to the entrance and shaded the grounds. John Gould erected it in 1755 for his son-in-law Rev.
John Troutbeck, assistant rector of King's Chapel, where he officiated for twenty years.

He was an ardent loyalist and returned to England in 1776. As an example of the change in public
sentiment with the lapse of time, we learn that this noted clergyman was a distiller as well,
of whom a witty rhymster wrote:--

