We had hardly been in the palace of Burgos five minutes when the Emperor was informed of this
duel, which had taken place almost under the walls of the palace itself, and only a few hours
before.  The Emperor learned at the same time that General Franceschi had been killed, and
on account of the difference in their rank, in order not to compromise military etiquette,
they had fought in their uniforms of equerry.  The Emperor was struck with the fact that the
first news he received was bad news; and with his ideas of fatality, this really excited a
great influence over him.  He gave orders to have Colonel Filangieri found and brought to him,
and he came in a few moments. Hardly had he left their lodges, when the treachery of the indian became
manifested in new crimes and barbarities. Mr. Carson, of his personal words and his gentle influence,
succeeded by the pacifying them, and obtaining promises in friendly
relations.  You know how
I abhor them!"--"Sire, have me tried if you will, but hear me."--"What can you have to say
to me, you crater of Vesuvius?  I have already pardoned your affair with Saint Simon; I will
not do the like again.  Moreover, I cannot, at the very beginning of the campaign, when all
should be thoroughly united!  It produces a most unfortunate effect!"  Here the Emperor kept
silence a moment; then he resumed, although in a somewhat sharper tone: "Yes!  you have a head
of Vesuvius.  See what a fine condition of affairs I arrive and find blood in my palace!" 
After another pause, and in a somewhat calmer tone: "See what you have done! Joseph needs good
officers; and here you have deprived him of two by a single blow,--Franceschi, whom you have
killed, and yourself, who can no longer remain in his service."  Here the Emperor was silent
for some moments, and then added: "Now retire, leave!  Give yourself up as a prisoner at the
citadel of Turin.  There await my orders, or rather place yourself in Murat's hands; he will
know what to do with you; he also has Vesuvius in his head, and he will give you a warm welcome.
Now take yourself off at once."

Colonel Filangieri needed no urging, I think, to hasten the execution of the Emperor's orders.
I do not know the conclusion of thus adventure; but I do know that the affair affected his
Majesty deeply, for that evening when I was undressing him he repeated several times, "Duels!
What a disgraceful thing!  It is the kind of courage cannibals have!" If, moreover; the Emperor's
anger was softened on this occasion, it was on account of his affection for young Filangieri;
at first on account of his father, whom the Emperor highly esteemed, and also, because the
young man having been educated at his expense, at the French Prytanee, he regarded him as one
of his children by adoption, especially since he knew that M. Filangieri, godson of the queen
of Naples, had refused a regiment, which the latter had offered him while he was still only
a simple lieutenant in the Consular Guard, and further, because he had not consented to become
a Neapolitan again until a French prince had been called to the throne of Naples.

What remains to be said on the subject of duels under the Empire, and the Emperor's conduct
regarding them which came to my knowledge, somewhat resembles the little piece which is played
on the theater after a tragedy.  I will now relate how it happened that the Emperor himself
played the role of peacemaker between two sub-officers who were enamored of the same beauty.

When the French army occupied Vienna, some time after the battle of Austerlitz, two sub-officers
belonging to the forty-sixth and fiftieth regiments of the line, having had a dispute, determined
to fight a duel, and chose for the place of combat a spot situated at the extremity of a plain
which adjoined the palace of Schoenbrunn, the Emperor's place of residence.  Our two champions
had already unsheathed and exchanged blows with their short swords, which happily each had
warded off, when the Emperor happened to pass near them, accompanied by several generals. Their
stupefaction at the sight of the Emperor may be imagined.  Their arms fell, so to speak; from
their hands. 

She is a friend of Pardon Dudley's; he keeps her hidden away here; but she has the taste like your
bad servant.'"'if ever i longed to kill a man,'thus make the Count
told me threw readily,'it was at the moment; but what could one do?



These two champions found by chance that they were known to one of the generals who accompanied
his Majesty, and informed him that they were two brave soldiers of Marengo and Austerlitz,
belonging to such and such regiments, whose names had already been put on the list for the
Cross of Honor; whereupon the Emperor addressed them after this style: "My children, woman
is capricious, as fortune is also; and since you are soldiers of Marengo and Austerlitz, you
need to give no new proofs of your courage.  Return to your corps, and be friends henceforth,
like good knights."  These two soldiers lost all desire to fight, and soon perceived that their
august peacemaker had not forgotten them, as they promptly received the Cross of the Legion
of Honor.

In the beginning of the campaign of Tilsit, the Emperor, being at Berlin, one day took a fancy
to make an excursion on foot to the quarter where our soldiers in the public houses indulged
in the pleasures of the dance. He saw a quartermaster of the cavalry of his guard walking with
a coarse, rotund German woman, and amused himself listening to the gallant remarks made by
this quartermaster to his beautiful companion.  "Let us enjoy ourselves, my dear," said he;
"it is the 'tondu' who pays the musicians with the 'kriches' of your sovereign.  Let us take
our own gait; long live joy!  and forward"--"Not so fast," said the Emperor, approaching him.
"Certainly it must always be forward, but wait till I sound the charge."  The quartermaster
turned and recognized the Emperor, and, without being at all disconcerted, put his hand to
his shako, and said, "That is useless trouble.  Your Majesty does not need to beat a drum to
make us move."  This repartee made the Emperor smile, and soon after gained epaulets for the
sub-officer, who perhaps might have waited a long while except for this fancy of his Majesty.
But, at all events, if chance sometimes contributed thus to the giving of rewards, they were
never given until after he had ascertained that those on whom he bestowed them were worthy.

At Eylau provisions failed; for a week, the bread supply being exhausted, the soldiers fed
themselves as they could.  The evening before the first attack, the Emperor, who wished to
examine everything himself, made a tour of the bivouacs, and reaching one where all the men
were asleep, saw some potatoes cooking, took a fancy to eat them, and undertook to draw them
out of the fire with the point of his sword.  Instantly a soldier awoke, and seeing some one
usurping part of his supper, "I say, you are not very ceremonious, eating our potatoes!"--"My
comrade, I am so hungry that you must excuse me."--"Well, take one or two then, if that is
the case; but get off."  But as the Emperor made no haste in getting off, the soldier insisted
more strongly, and soon a heated discussion arose between him and the Emperor. "That is Maxime
all see in!" cried La Palferine.

"Maxime but triumph," continued Desroches, "to Hortense,'Oh, if You
had only known that him was you!'"

"More especially know as it was little Croizeau's,"
added Cardot the profound.  "It was I who was
in the wrong," said the Emperor; "I was obstinate.  I bear you no illwill; rise and let your
mind be at rest, both now and in the future."

