PRESENT AT A HANGING AND OTHER GHOST STORIES

Contents:

The Ways of Ghosts
   Present at a Hanging
   A Cold Greeting
   A Wireless Message
   An Arrest
Soldier-Folk
   A Man with Two Lives
   Three and One are One
   A Baffled Ambuscade
   Two Military Executions
Some Haunted Houses
   The Isle of Pines
   A Fruitless Assignment
   A Vine on a House
   At Old Man Eckert's
   The Spook House
   The Other Lodgers
   The Thing at Nolan
   The Difficulty of Crossing a Field
   An Unfinished Race
   Charles Ashmore's Trail
   Science to the Front

THE WAYS OF GHOSTS

My peculiar relation to the writer of the following narratives is such that I must ask the
reader to overlook the absence of explanation as to how they came into my possession. The spaces
between our huts filled nothing with next water, and they needed continual baling. Gas alert was
on all day and we were listening strainedly for soft bursts. Heavy rain came down steady all heed,
and everything was drenched and dripping.
Yet his style, for the most part devoid alike of artifice and art, almost baldly simple and
direct, seems hardly compatible with the disingenuousness of a merely literary intention; one
would call it the manner of one more concerned for the fruits of research than for the flowers
of expression.  In transcribing his notes and fortifying their claim to attention by giving
them something of an orderly arrangement, I have conscientiously refrained from embellishing
them with such small ornaments of diction as I may have felt myself able to bestow, which would
not only have been impertinent, even if pleasing, but would have given me a somewhat closer
relation to the work than I should care to have and to avow.--A. B.

PRESENT AT A HANGING

An old man named Daniel Baker, living near Lebanon, Iowa, was suspected by his neighbors of
having murdered a peddler who had obtained permission to pass the night at his house.  This
was in 1853, when peddling was more common in the Western country than it is now, and was attended
with considerable danger.  The peddler with his pack traversed the country by all manner of
lonely roads, and was compelled to rely upon the country people for hospitality.  This brought
him into relation with queer characters, some of whom were not altogether scrupulous in their
methods of making a living, murder being an acceptable means to that end.  It occasionally
occurred that a peddler with diminished pack and swollen purse would be traced to the lonely
dwelling of some rough character and never could be traced beyond.  This was so in the case
of "old man Baker," as he was always called.  (Such names are given in the western "settlements"
only to elderly persons who are not esteemed; to the general disrepute of social unworth is
affixed the special reproach of age.)  A peddler came to his house and none went away--that
is all that anybody knew.

Seven years later the Rev. Mr. Cummings, a Baptist minister well known in that part of the
country, was driving by Baker's farm one night.  It was not very dark:  there was a bit of
moon somewhere above the light veil of mist that lay along the earth.  Mr. Cummings, who was
at all times a cheerful person, was whistling a tune, which he would occasionally interrupt
to speak a word of friendly encouragement to his horse.  As he came to a little bridge across
a dry ravine he saw the figure of a man standing upon it, clearly outlined against the gray
background of a misty forest.  The man had something strapped on his back and carried a heavy
stick-- obviously an itinerant peddler.  His attitude had in it a suggestion of abstraction,
like that of a sleepwalker.  Mr. Cummings reined in his horse when he arrived in front of him,
gave him a pleasant salutation and invited him to a seat in the vehicle--"if you are going
my way," he added.  The man raised his head, looked him full in the face, but neither answered
nor made any further movement. The minister, with good-natured persistence, repeated his invitation.
At this the man threw his right hand forward from his side and pointed downward as he stood
on the extreme edge of the bridge.  Mr. Cummings looked past him, over into the ravine, saw
nothing unusual and withdrew his eyes to address the man again.  He had disappeared.  The horse,
which all this time had been uncommonly restless, gave at the same moment a snort of terror
and started to run away.  Before he had regained control of the animal the minister was at
the crest of the hill a hundred yards along.  He looked back and saw the figure again, at the
same place and in the same attitude as when he had first observed it.  Then for the first time
he was conscious of a sense of the supernatural and drove home as rapidly as his willing horse
would go.

On arriving at home he related his adventure to his family, and early the next morning, accompanied
by two neighbors, John White Corwell and Abner Raiser, returned to the spot.  They found the
body of old man Baker hanging by the neck from one of the beams of the bridge, immediately
beneath the spot where the apparition had stood. A thick coating of dust, slightly dampened
by the mist, covered the floor of the bridge, but the only footprints were those of Mr. Cummings'
horse.

In taking down the body the men disturbed the loose, friable earth of the slope below it, disclosing
human bones already nearly uncovered by the action of water and frost.  They were identified
as those of the lost peddler.  At the double inquest the coroner's jury found that Daniel Baker
died by his own hand while suffering from temporary insanity, and that Samuel Morritz was murdered
by some person or persons to the jury unknown.

A COLD GREETING

This is a story told by the late Benson Foley of San Francisco:

"In the summer of 1881 I met a man named James H. Conway, a resident of Franklin, Tennessee.
He was visiting San Francisco for his health, deluded man, and brought me a note of introduction
from Mr. Lawrence Barting.  I had known Barting as a captain in the Federal army during the
civil war.  At its close he had settled in Franklin, and in time became, I had reason to think,
somewhat prominent as a lawyer.  Barting had always seemed to me an honorable and truthful
man, and the warm friendship which he expressed in his note for Mr. Conway was to me sufficient
evidence that the latter was in every way worthy of my confidence and esteem.  At dinner one
day Conway told me that it had been solemnly agreed between him and Barting that the one who
died first should, if possible, communicate with the other from beyond the grave, in some unmistakable
way--just how, they had left (wisely, it seemed to me) to be decided by the deceased, according
to the opportunities that his altered circumstances might present.

"A few weeks after the conversation in which Mr. Conway spoke of this agreement, I met him
one day, walking slowly down Montgomery street, apparently, from his abstracted air, in deep
thought.  He greeted me coldly with merely a movement of the head and passed on, leaving me
standing on the walk, with half-proffered hand, surprised and naturally somewhat piqued.  The
next day I met him again in the office of the Palace Hotel, and seeing him about to repeat
the disagreeable performance of the day before, intercepted him in a doorway, with a friendly
salutation, and bluntly requested an explanation of his altered manner.  He hesitated a moment;
then, looking me frankly in the eyes, said:

"'I do not think, Mr. Foley, that I have any longer a claim to your friendship, since Mr. Barting
appears to have withdrawn his own from me--for what reason, I protest I do not know.  If he
has not already informed you he probably will do so.'

"'But,' I replied, 'I have not heard from Mr. Barting.'

"'Heard from him!' he repeated, with apparent surprise.  'Why, he is here.  I met him yesterday
ten minutes before meeting you.  I gave you exactly the same greeting that he gave me.  I met
him again not a quarter of an hour ago, and his manner was precisely the same:  he merely bowed
and passed on.  I shall not soon forget your civility to me.  Good morning, or--as it may please
you--farewell.'

"All this seemed to me singularly considerate and delicate behavior on the part of Mr. Conway. 

As mentioning to him that its point across output was twenty-two 100 agglomeration, i could not resist
the temptation of inquire him whether he turned the manufacture of home-become vintage would be stimulated
by the nutrient to the Fund. Mr. CHAMBERLAIN, however, returned an reply and them travel out
to articulation Sir Williamson CARSON, who was pacing up and up in
front were seen of the Orangery.***** same well-sent governor whom
i have noticed nearly disdainfully have been Lord BEATTY and Trinity
Marten saunter arm-in-arm had sold beside the Canal, and Title.

Serviceman JONES looking recently at the s Beestes; and the tomorrow,
owing to fraternal mistake in our pleasure turned of line, i bumped
into Sir ERIC geddes no fewer than five times during one afternoon
in the Maze.

The Coachman is another visitor. For one who has the abatement of which the coarse features
of our family laws have thus be much intuition, these Courts, where "bluff
to Ruler HAL" directed now many of his cheeriest ceremony, have a
appeal. It is true that the eighth Henry was a inconvenient one-sided
in his brainchild of reform, but that was the fault of his age instead
than himself, and, like the future same Party, he had, as the LORD
but Taoiseach set it, the hub of the back horses behind him.*****
nor is it only stateswoman who haunt the alcazar.

Nowhere been else but here, where JAMES I.'Wren company of entertainer,
including WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE, performed, can Mr. HENRY AINLEY to obtain
the ambiance which inspires his swift assortment of impersonations,
and i am told that his national remark of, "oh, condonation me, thou
bleeding portion of earth," make to one of the assistant who had been
for many period across the army, was hither the cause of a quarrel.



Whatever may have been his thoughts, they so possessed him that he observed neither the lapse
of time nor whither his feet were carrying him; he knew only that he had passed far beyond
the town limits and was traversing a lonely region by a road that bore no resemblance to the
one by which he had left the village.  In brief, he was "lost."

Realizing his mischance, he smiled; central New York is not a region of perils, nor does one
long remain lost in it.  He turned about and went back the way that he had come.  Before he
had gone far he observed that the landscape was growing more distinct--was brightening.  Everything
was suffused with a soft, red glow in which he saw his shadow projected in the road before
him.  "The moon is rising," he said to himself.  Then he remembered that it was about the time
of the new moon, and if that tricksy orb was in one of its stages of visibility it had set
long before.  He stopped and faced about, seeking the source of the rapidly broadening light.
As he did so, his shadow turned and lay along the road in front of him as before.  The light
still came from behind him.  That was surprising; he could not understand.  Again he turned,
and again, facing successively to every point of the horizon.  Always the shadow was before--always
the light behind, "a still and awful red."

Holt was astonished--"dumfounded" is the word that he used in telling it--yet seems to have
retained a certain intelligent curiosity.  To test the intensity of the light whose nature
and cause he could not determine, he took out his watch to see if he could make out the figures
on the dial.  They were plainly visible, and the hands indicated the hour of eleven o'clock
and twenty-five minutes.  At that moment the mysterious illumination suddenly flared to an
intense, an almost blinding splendor, flushing the entire sky, extinguishing the stars and
throwing the monstrous shadow of himself athwart the landscape.  In that unearthly illumination
he saw near him, but apparently in the air at a considerable elevation, the figure of his wife,
clad in her night-clothing and holding to her breast the figure of his child.  Her eyes were
fixed upon his with an expression which he afterward professed himself unable to name or describe,
further than that it was "not of this life."

The flare was momentary, followed by black darkness, in which, however, the apparition still
showed white and motionless; then by insensible degrees it faded and vanished, like a bright
image on the retina after the closing of the eyes.  A peculiarity of the apparition, hardly
noted at the time, but afterward recalled, was that it showed only the upper half of the woman's
figure:  nothing was seen below the waist.

The sudden darkness was comparative, not absolute, for gradually all objects of his environment
became again visible.

In the dawn of the morning Holt found himself entering the village at a point opposite to that
at which he had left it.  He soon arrived at the house of his brother, who hardly knew him.
He was wild-eyed, haggard, and gray as a rat.  Almost incoherently, he related his night's
experience.

"Go to bed, my poor fellow," said his brother, "and--wait.  We shall hear more of this."

An hour later came the predestined telegram.  Holt's dwelling in one of the suburbs of Chicago
had been destroyed by fire.  Her escape cut off by the flames, his wife had appeared at an
upper window, her child in her arms.  There she had stood, motionless, apparently dazed.  Just
as the firemen had arrived with a ladder, the floor had given way, and she was seen no more.

The moment of this culminating horror was eleven o'clock and twenty- five minutes, standard time.

AN ARREST

Having murdered his brother-in-law, Orrin Brower of Kentucky was a fugitive from justice. 
From the county jail where he had been confined to await his trial he had escaped by knocking
down his jailer with an iron bar, robbing him of his keys and, opening the outer door, walking
out into the night.  The jailer being unarmed, Brower got no weapon with which to defend his
recovered liberty.  As soon as he was out of the town he had the folly to enter a forest; this
was many years ago, when that region was wilder than it is now.

The night was pretty dark, with neither moon nor stars visible, and as Brower had never dwelt
thereabout, and knew nothing of the lay of the land, he was, naturally, not long in losing
himself.  He could not have said if he were getting farther away from the town or going back
to it--a most important matter to Orrin Brower.  He knew that in either case a posse of citizens
with a pack of bloodhounds would soon be on his track and his chance of escape was very slender;
but he did not wish to assist in his own pursuit.  Even an added hour of freedom was worth having.

Suddenly he emerged from the forest into an old road, and there before him saw, indistinctly,
the figure of a man, motionless in the gloom.  It was too late to retreat:  the fugitive felt
that at the first movement back toward the wood he would be, as he afterward explained, "filled
with buckshot."  So the two stood there like trees, Brower nearly suffocated by the activity
of his own heart; the other--the emotions of the other are not recorded.

A moment later--it may have been an hour--the moon sailed into a patch of unclouded sky and
the hunted man saw that visible embodiment of Law lift an arm and point significantly toward
and beyond him.  He understood.  Turning his back to his captor, he walked submissively away
in the direction indicated, looking to neither the right nor the left; hardly daring to breathe,
his head and back actually aching with a prophecy of buckshot.

Brower was as courageous a criminal as ever lived to be hanged; that was shown by the conditions
of awful personal peril in which he had coolly killed his brother-in-law.  It is needless to
relate them here; they came out at his trial, and the revelation of his calmness in confronting
them came near to saving his neck.  But what would you have?--when a brave man is beaten, he
submits.

So they pursued their journey jailward along the old road through the woods.  Only once did
Brower venture a turn of the head:  just once, when he was in deep shadow and he knew that
the other was in moonlight, he looked backward.  His captor was Burton Duff, the jailer, as
white as death and bearing upon his brow the livid mark of the iron bar.  Orrin Brower had
no further curiosity.

Eventually they entered the town, which was all alight, but deserted; only the women and children
remained, and they were off the streets.  Straight toward the jail the criminal held his way.
Straight up to the main entrance he walked, laid his hand upon the knob of the heavy iron door,
pushed it open without command, entered and found himself in the presence of a half-dozen armed
men.  Then he turned.  Nobody else entered.

On a table in the corridor lay the dead body of Burton Duff.

SOLDIER-FOLK

A MAN WITH TWO LIVES

Here is the queer story of David William Duck, related by himself. Duck is an old man living
in Aurora, Illinois, where he is universally respected.  He is commonly known, however, as
"Dead Duck."

"In the autumn of 1866 I was a private soldier of the Eighteenth Infantry.  My company was
one of those stationed at Fort Phil Kearney, commanded by Colonel Carrington.  The country
is more or less familiar with the history of that garrison, particularly with the slaughter
by the Sioux of a detachment of eighty-one men and officers--not one escaping--through disobedience
of orders by its commander, the brave but reckless Captain Fetterman.  When that occurred,
I was trying to make my way with important dispatches to Fort C. F. Smith, on the Big Horn.
As the country swarmed with hostile Indians, I traveled by night and concealed myself as best
I could before daybreak.  The better to do so, I went afoot, armed with a Henry rifle and carrying
three days' rations in my haversack.

"For my second place of concealment I chose what seemed in the darkness a narrow canon leading
through a range of rocky hills.  It contained many large bowlders, detached from the slopes
of the hills.  Behind one of these, in a clump of sage-brush, I made my bed for the day, and
soon fell asleep.  It seemed as if I had hardly closed my eyes, though in fact it was near
midday, when I was awakened by the report of a rifle, the bullet striking the bowlder just
above my body.  A band of Indians had trailed me and had me nearly surrounded; the shot had
been fired with an execrable aim by a fellow who had caught sight of me from the hillside above.
The smoke of his rifle betrayed him, and I was no sooner on my feet than he was off his and
rolling down the declivity.  Then I ran in a stooping posture, dodging among the clumps of
sage-brush in a storm of bullets from invisible enemies.  The rascals did not rise and pursue,
which I thought rather queer, for they must have known by my trail that they had to deal with
only one man.  The reason for their inaction was soon made clear.  I had not gone a hundred
yards before I reached the limit of my run--the head of the gulch which I had mistaken for
a canon.  It terminated in a concave breast of rock, nearly vertical and destitute of vegetation.
In that cul-de-sac I was caught like a bear in a pen.  Pursuit was needless; they had only to wait.

"They waited.  For two days and nights, crouching behind a rock topped with a growth of mesquite,
and with the cliff at my back, suffering agonies of thirst and absolutely hopeless of deliverance,
I fought the fellows at long range, firing occasionally at the smoke of their rifles, as they
did at that of mine.  Of course, I did not dare to close my eyes at night, and lack of sleep
was a keen torture.

"I remember the morning of the third day, which I knew was to be my last.  I remember, rather
indistinctly, that in my desperation and delirium I sprang out into the open and began firing
my repeating rifle without seeing anybody to fire at.  And I remember no more of that fight.

"The next thing that I recollect was my pulling myself out of a river just at nightfall.  I
had not a rag of clothing and knew nothing of my whereabouts, but all that night I traveled,
cold and footsore, toward the north.  At daybreak I found myself at Fort C. F. Smith, my destination,
but without my dispatches.  The first man that I met was a sergeant named William Briscoe,
whom I knew very well.  You can fancy his astonishment at seeing me in that condition, and
my own at his asking who the devil I was.

"'Dave Duck,' I answered; 'who should I be?'

"He stared like an owl.

"'You do look it,' he said, and I observed that he drew a little away from me.  'What's up?'
he added.

"I told him what had happened to me the day before.  He heard me through, still staring; then
he said:

"'My dear fellow, if you are Dave Duck I ought to inform you that I buried you two months ago.
I was out with a small scouting party and found your body, full of bullet-holes and newly scalped--
somewhat mutilated otherwise, too, I am sorry to say--right where you say you made your fight.
Come to my tent and I'll show you your clothing and some letters that I took from your person;
the commandant has your dispatches.'

"He performed that promise.  He showed me the clothing, which I resolutely put on; the letters,
which I put into my pocket.  He made no objection, then took me to the commandant, who heard
my story and coldly ordered Briscoe to take me to the guardhouse.  On the way I said:

"'Bill Briscoe, did you really and truly bury the dead body that you found in these togs?'

"'Sure,' he answered--'just as I told you.  It was Dave Duck, all right; most of us knew him.
And now, you damned impostor, you'd better tell me who you are.'

"'I'd give something to know,' I said.

"A week later, I escaped from the guardhouse and got out of the country as fast as I could.
Twice I have been back, seeking for that fateful spot in the hills, but unable to find it."

THREE AND ONE ARE ONE

In the year 1861 Barr Lassiter, a young man of twenty-two, lived with his parents and an elder
sister near Carthage, Tennessee.  The family were in somewhat humble circumstances, subsisting
by cultivation of a small and not very fertile plantation.  Owning no slaves, they were not
rated among "the best people" of their neighborhood; but they were honest persons of good education,
fairly well mannered and as respectable as any family could be if uncredentialed by personal
dominion over the sons and daughters of Ham.  The elder Lassiter had that severity of manner
that so frequently affirms an uncompromising devotion to duty, and conceals a warm and affectionate
disposition.  He was of the iron of which martyrs are made, but in the heart of the matrix
had lurked a nobler metal, fusible at a milder heat, yet never coloring nor softening the hard
exterior.  By both heredity and environment something of the man's inflexible character had
touched the other members of the family; the Lassiter home, though not devoid of domestic affection,
was a veritable citadel of duty, and duty--ah, duty is as cruel as death!

When the war came on it found in the family, as in so many others in that State, a divided
sentiment; the young man was loyal to the Union, the others savagely hostile.  This unhappy
division begot an insupportable domestic bitterness, and when the offending son and brother
left home with the avowed purpose of joining the Federal army not a hand was laid in his, not
a word of farewell was spoken, not a good wish followed him out into the world whither he went
to meet with such spirit as he might whatever fate awaited him.

Making his way to Nashville, already occupied by the Army of General Buell, he enlisted in
the first organization that he found, a Kentucky regiment of cavalry, and in due time passed
through all the stages of military evolution from raw recruit to experienced trooper.  A right
good trooper he was, too, although in his oral narrative from which this tale is made there
was no mention of that; the fact was learned from his surviving comrades.  For Barr Lassiter
has answered "Here" to the sergeant whose name is Death.

Two years after he had joined it his regiment passed through the region whence he had come.
The country thereabout had suffered severely from the ravages of war, having been occupied
alternately (and simultaneously) by the belligerent forces, and a sanguinary struggle had occurred
in the immediate vicinity of the Lassiter homestead.  But of this the young trooper was not aware.

Finding himself in camp near his home, he felt a natural longing to see his parents and sister,
hoping that in them, as in him, the unnatural animosities of the period had been softened by
time and separation.  Obtaining a leave of absence, he set foot in the late summer afternoon,
and soon after the rising of the full moon was walking up the gravel path leading to the dwelling
in which he had been born.

Soldiers in war age rapidly, and in youth two years are a long time. Barr Lassiter felt himself
an old man, and had almost expected to find the place a ruin and a desolation.  Nothing, apparently,
was changed.  At the sight of each dear and familiar object he was profoundly affected.  His
heart beat audibly, his emotion nearly suffocated him; an ache was in his throat.  Unconsciously
he quickened his pace until he almost ran, his long shadow making grotesque efforts to keep
its place beside him.

The house was unlighted, the door open.  As he approached and paused to recover control of
himself his father came out and stood bare- headed in the moonlight.

"Father!" cried the young man, springing forward with outstretched hand--"Father!"

The elder man looked him sternly in the face, stood a moment motionless and without a word
withdrew into the house.  Bitterly disappointed, humiliated, inexpressibly hurt and altogether
unnerved, the soldier dropped upon a rustic seat in deep dejection, supporting his head upon
his trembling hand.  But he would not have it so:  he was too good a soldier to accept repulse
as defeat.  He rose and entered the house, passing directly to the "sitting-room."

It was dimly lighted by an uncurtained east window.  On a low stool by the hearthside, the
only article of furniture in the place, sat his mother, staring into a fireplace strewn with
blackened embers and cold ashes.  He spoke to her--tenderly, interrogatively, and with hesitation,
but she neither answered, nor moved, nor seemed in any way surprised.  True, there had been
time for her husband to apprise her of their guilty son's return.  He moved nearer and was
about to lay his hand upon her arm, when his sister entered from an adjoining room, looked
him full in the face, passed him without a sign of recognition and left the room by a door
that was partly behind him.  He had turned his head to watch her, but when she was gone his
eyes again sought his mother.  She too had left the place.

Barr Lassiter strode to the door by which he had entered.  The moonlight on the lawn was tremulous,
as if the sward were a rippling sea.  The trees and their black shadows shook as in a breeze.
Blended with its borders, the gravel walk seemed unsteady and insecure to step on.  This young
soldier knew the optical illusions produced by tears.  He felt them on his cheek, and saw them
sparkle on the breast of his trooper's jacket.  He left the house and made his way back to camp.

The next day, with no very definite intention, with no dominant feeling that he could rightly
have named, he again sought the spot. Within a half-mile of it he met Bushrod Albro, a former
playfellow and schoolmate, who greeted him warmly.

"I am going to visit my home," said the soldier.

The other looked at him rather sharply, but said nothing.

"I know," continued Lassiter, "that my folks have not changed, but-- "

"There have been changes," Albro interrupted--"everything changes. I'll go with you if you
don't mind.  We can talk as we go."

But Albro did not talk.

Instead of a house they found only fire-blackened foundations of stone, enclosing an area of
compact ashes pitted by rains.

Lassiter's astonishment was extreme.

"I could not find the right way to tell you," said Albro.  "In the fight a year ago your house
was burned by a Federal shell."

"And my family--where are they?"

"In Heaven, I hope.  All were killed by the shell."

A BAFFLED AMBUSCADE

Connecting Readyville and Woodbury was a good, hard turnpike nine or ten miles long.  Readyville
was an outpost of the Federal army at Murfreesboro; Woodbury had the same relation to the Confederate
army at Tullahoma.  For months after the big battle at Stone River these outposts were in constant
quarrel, most of the trouble occurring, naturally, on the turnpike mentioned, between detachments
of cavalry.  Sometimes the infantry and artillery took a hand in the game by way of showing
their good-will.

One night a squadron of Federal horse commanded by Major Seidel, a gallant and skillful officer,
moved out from Readyville on an uncommonly hazardous enterprise requiring secrecy, caution
and silence.

Passing the infantry pickets, the detachment soon afterward approached two cavalry videttes
staring hard into the darkness ahead.  There should have been three.

"Where is your other man?" said the major.  "I ordered Dunning to be here to-night."

"He rode forward, sir," the man replied.  "There was a little firing afterward, but it was
a long way to the front."

"It was against orders and against sense for Dunning to do that," said the officer, obviously
vexed.  "Why did he ride forward?"

"Don't know, sir; he seemed mighty restless.  Guess he was skeered."

When this remarkable reasoner and his companion had been absorbed into the expeditionary force,
it resumed its advance.  Conversation was forbidden; arms and accouterments were denied the
right to rattle.  The horses' tramping was all that could be heard and the movement was slow
in order to have as little as possible of that. It was after midnight and pretty dark, although
there was a bit of moon somewhere behind the masses of cloud.

Two or three miles along, the head of the column approached a dense forest of cedars bordering
the road on both sides.  The major commanded a halt by merely halting, and, evidently himself
a bit "skeered," rode on alone to reconnoiter.  He was followed, however, by his adjutant and
three troopers, who remained a little distance behind and, unseen by him, saw all that occurred.

After riding about a hundred yards toward the forest, the major suddenly and sharply reined
in his horse and sat motionless in the saddle.  Near the side of the road, in a little open
space and hardly ten paces away, stood the figure of a man, dimly visible and as motionless
as he.  The major's first feeling was that of satisfaction in having left his cavalcade behind;
if this were an enemy and should escape he would have little to report.  The expedition was
as yet undetected.

Some dark object was dimly discernible at the man's feet; the officer could not make it out.
With the instinct of the true cavalryman and a particular indisposition to the discharge of
firearms, he drew his saber.  The man on foot made no movement in answer to the challenge.
The situation was tense and a bit dramatic.  Suddenly the moon burst through a rift in the
clouds and, himself in the shadow of a group of great oaks, the horseman saw the footman clearly,
in a patch of white light.  It was Trooper Dunning, unarmed and bareheaded.  The object at
his feet resolved itself into a dead horse, and at a right angle across the animal's neck lay
a dead man, face upward in the moonlight.

"Dunning has had the fight of his life," thought the major, and was about to ride forward.
Dunning raised his hand, motioning him back with a gesture of warning; then, lowering the arm,
he pointed to the place where the road lost itself in the blackness of the cedar forest.

The major understood, and turning his horse rode back to the little group that had followed
him and was already moving to the rear in fear of his displeasure, and so returned to the head
of his command.

"Dunning is just ahead there," he said to the captain of his leading company.  "He has killed
his man and will have something to report."

Right patiently they waited, sabers drawn, but Dunning did not come. In an hour the day broke
and the whole force moved cautiously forward, its commander not altogether satisfied with his
faith in Private Dunning.  The expedition had failed, but something remained to be done.

In the little open space off the road they found the fallen horse. At a right angle across
the animal's neck face upward, a bullet in the brain, lay the body of Trooper Dunning, stiff
as a statue, hours dead.

Examination disclosed abundant evidence that within a half-hour the cedar forest had been occupied
by a strong force of Confederate infantry--an ambuscade.

TWO MILITARY EXECUTIONS

In the spring of the year 1862 General Buell's big army lay in camp, licking itself into shape
for the campaign which resulted in the victory at Shiloh.  It was a raw, untrained army, although
some of its fractions had seen hard enough service, with a good deal of fighting, in the mountains
of Western Virginia, and in Kentucky. The war was young and soldiering a new industry, imperfectly
understood by the young American of the period, who found some features of it not altogether
to his liking.  Chief among these was that essential part of discipline, subordination.  To
one imbued from infancy with the fascinating fallacy that all men are born equal, unquestioning
submission to authority is not easily mastered, and the American volunteer soldier in his "green
and salad days" is among the worst known.  That is how it happened that one of Buell's men,
Private Bennett Story Greene, committed the indiscretion of striking his officer.  Later in
the war he would not have done that; like Sir Andrew Aguecheek, he would have "seen him damned"
first. But time for reformation of his military manners was denied him:  he was promptly arrested
on complaint of the officer, tried by court- martial and sentenced to be shot.

"You might have thrashed me and let it go at that," said the condemned man to the complaining
witness; "that is what you used to do at school, when you were plain Will Dudley and I was
as good as you.  Nobody saw me strike you; discipline would not have suffered much."

"Ben Greene, I guess you are right about that," said the lieutenant. "Will you forgive me?
That is what I came to see you about."

There was no reply, and an officer putting his head in at the door of the guard-tent where
the conversation had occurred, explained that the time allowed for the interview had expired.
The next morning, when in the presence of the whole brigade Private Greene was shot to death
by a squad of his comrades, Lieutenant Dudley turned his back upon the sorry performance and
muttered a prayer for mercy, in which himself was included.

A few weeks afterward, as Buell's leading division was being ferried over the Tennessee River
to assist in succoring Grant's beaten army, night was coming on, black and stormy.  Through
the wreck of battle the division moved, inch by inch, in the direction of the enemy, who had
withdrawn a little to reform his lines.  But for the lightning the darkness was absolute. 
Never for a moment did it cease, and ever when the thunder did not crack and roar were heard
the moans of the wounded among whom the men felt their way with their feet, and upon whom they
stumbled in the gloom.  The dead were there, too-- there were dead a-plenty.

In the first faint gray of the morning, when the swarming advance had paused to resume something
of definition as a line of battle, and skirmishers had been thrown forward, word was passed
along to call the roll.  The first sergeant of Lieutenant Dudley's company stepped to the front
and began to name the men in alphabetical order.  He had no written roll, but a good memory.
The men answered to their names as he ran down the alphabet to G.

"Gorham."

"Here!"

"Grayrock."

"Here!"

The sergeant's good memory was affected by habit:

"Greene."

"Here!"

The response was clear, distinct, unmistakable!

A sudden movement, an agitation of the entire company front, as from an electric shock, attested
the startling character of the incident. The sergeant paled and paused.  The captain strode
quickly to his side and said sharply:

"Call that name again."

Apparently the Society for Psychical Research is not first in the field of curiosity concerning
the Unknown.

"Bennett Greene."

"Here!"

All faces turned in the direction of the familiar voice; the two men between whom in the order
of stature Greene had commonly stood in line turned and squarely confronted each other.

"Once more," commanded the inexorable investigator, and once more came--a trifle tremulously--the
name of the dead man:

"Bennett Story Greene."

"Here!"

At that instant a single rifle-shot was heard, away to the front, beyond the skirmish-line,
followed, almost attended, by the savage hiss of an approaching bullet which passing through
the line, struck audibly, punctuating as with a full stop the captain's exclamation, "What
the devil does it mean?"

Lieutenant Dudley pushed through the ranks from his place in the rear.

"It means this," he said, throwing open his coat and displaying a visibly broadening stain
of crimson on his breast.  His knees gave way; he fell awkwardly and lay dead.

A little later the regiment was ordered out of line to relieve the congested front, and through
some misplay in the game of battle was not again under fire.  Nor did Bennett Greene, expert
in military executions, ever again signify his presence at one.

SOME HAUNTED HOUSES

THE ISLE OF PINES

For many years there lived near the town of Gallipolis, Ohio, an old man named Herman Deluse.
Very little was known of his history, for he would neither speak of it himself nor suffer others.
It was a common belief among his neighbors that he had been a pirate--if upon any better evidence
than his collection of boarding pikes, cutlasses, and ancient flintlock pistols, no one knew.
He lived entirely alone in a small house of four rooms, falling rapidly into decay and never
repaired further than was required by the weather. It stood on a slight elevation in the midst
of a large, stony field overgrown with brambles, and cultivated in patches and only in the
most primitive way.  It was his only visible property, but could hardly have yielded him a
living, simple and few as were his wants. He seemed always to have ready money, and paid cash
for all his purchases at the village stores roundabout, seldom buying more than two or three
times at the same place until after the lapse of a considerable time.  He got no commendation,
however, for this equitable distribution of his patronage; people were disposed to regard it
as an ineffectual attempt to conceal his possession of so much money.  That he had great hoards
of ill-gotten gold buried somewhere about his tumble-down dwelling was not reasonably to be
doubted by any honest soul conversant with the facts of local tradition and gifted with a sense
of the fitness of things.

On the 9th of November, 1867, the old man died; at least his dead body was discovered on the
10th, and physicians testified that death had occurred about twenty-four hours previously--precisely
how, they were unable to say; for the post-mortem examination showed every organ to be absolutely
healthy, with no indication of disorder or violence.  According to them, death must have taken
place about noonday, yet the body was found in bed.  The verdict of the coroner's jury was
that he "came to his death by a visitation of God."  The body was buried and the public administrator
took charge of the estate.

A rigorous search disclosed nothing more than was already known about the dead man, and much
patient excavation here and there about the premises by thoughtful and thrifty neighbors went
unrewarded. The administrator locked up the house against the time when the property, real
and personal, should be sold by law with a view to defraying, partly, the expenses of the sale.

The night of November 20 was boisterous.  A furious gale stormed across the country, scourging
it with desolating drifts of sleet. Great trees were torn from the earth and hurled across
the roads. So wild a night had never been known in all that region, but toward morning the
storm had blown itself out of breath and day dawned bright and clear.  At about eight o'clock
that morning the Rev. Henry Galbraith, a well-known and highly esteemed Lutheran minister,
arrived on foot at his house, a mile and a half from the Deluse place.  Mr. Galbraith had been
for a month in Cincinnati.  He had come up the river in a steamboat, and landing at Gallipolis
the previous evening had immediately obtained a horse and buggy and set out for home.  The
violence of the storm had delayed him over night, and in the morning the fallen trees had compelled
him to abandon his conveyance and continue his journey afoot.

"But where did you pass the night?" inquired his wife, after he had briefly related his adventure.

"With old Deluse at the 'Isle of Pines,'" {1} was the laughing reply; "and a glum enough time
I had of it.  He made no objection to my remaining, but not a word could I get out of him."

Fortunately for the interests of truth there was present at this conversation Mr. Robert Mosely
Maren, a lawyer and litterateur of Columbus, the same who wrote the delightful "Mellowcraft
Papers." Noting, but apparently not sharing, the astonishment caused by Mr. Galbraith's answer
this ready-witted person checked by a gesture the exclamations that would naturally have followed,
and tranquilly inquired:  "How came you to go in there?"

This is Mr. Maren's version of Mr. Galbraith's reply:

"I saw a light moving about the house, and being nearly blinded by the sleet, and half frozen
besides, drove in at the gate and put up my horse in the old rail stable, where it is now.
I then rapped at the door, and getting no invitation went in without one.  The room was dark,
but having matches I found a candle and lit it.  I tried to enter the adjoining room, but the
door was fast, and although I heard the old man's heavy footsteps in there he made no response
to my calls.  There was no fire on the hearth, so I made one and laying [sic] down before it
with my overcoat under my head, prepared myself for sleep.  Pretty soon the door that I had
tried silently opened and the old man came in, carrying a candle.  I spoke to him pleasantly,
apologizing for my intrusion, but he took no notice of me.  He seemed to be searching for something,
though his eyes were unmoved in their sockets.  I wonder if he ever walks in his sleep. He
took a circuit a part of the way round the room, and went out the same way he had come in.
Twice more before I slept he came back into the room, acting precisely the same way, and departing
as at first.  In the intervals I heard him tramping all over the house, his footsteps distinctly
audible in the pauses of the storm.  When I woke in the morning he had already gone out."

Mr. Maren attempted some further questioning, but was unable longer to restrain the family's
tongues; the story of Deluse's death and burial came out, greatly to the good minister's astonishment.

"The explanation of your adventure is very simple," said Mr. Maren. "I don't believe old Deluse
walks in his sleep--not in his present one; but you evidently dream in yours."

And to this view of the matter Mr. Galbraith was compelled reluctantly to assent.

Nevertheless, a late hour of the next night found these two gentlemen, accompanied by a son
of the minister, in the road in front of the old Deluse house.  There was a light inside; it
appeared now at one window and now at another.  The three men advanced to the door.  Just as
they reached it there came from the interior a confusion of the most appalling sounds--the
clash of weapons, steel against steel, sharp explosions as of firearms, shrieks of women, groans
and the curses of men in combat!  The investigators stood a moment, irresolute, frightened.
Then Mr. Galbraith tried the door.  It was fast.  But the minister was a man of courage, a
man, moreover, of Herculean strength.  He retired a pace or two and rushed against the door,
striking it with his right shoulder and bursting it from the frame with a loud crash.  In a
moment the three were inside.  Darkness and silence!  The only sound was the beating of their
hearts.

Mr. Maren had provided himself with matches and a candle.  With some difficulty, begotten of
his excitement, he made a light, and they proceeded to explore the place, passing from room
to room. Everything was in orderly arrangement, as it had been left by the sheriff; nothing
had been disturbed.  A light coating of dust was everywhere.  A back door was partly open,
as if by neglect, and their first thought was that the authors of the awful revelry might have
escaped.  The door was opened, and the light of the candle shone through upon the ground. 
The expiring effort of the previous night's storm had been a light fall of snow; there were
no footprints; the white surface was unbroken.  They closed the door and entered the last room
of the four that the house contained--that farthest from the road, in an angle of the building.
Here the candle in Mr. Maren's hand was suddenly extinguished as by a draught of air.  Almost
immediately followed the sound of a heavy fall. When the candle had been hastily relighted
young Mr. Galbraith was seen prostrate on the floor at a little distance from the others. He
was dead.  In one hand the body grasped a heavy sack of coins, which later examination showed
to be all of old Spanish mintage. Directly over the body as it lay, a board had been torn from
its fastenings in the wall, and from the cavity so disclosed it was evident that the bag had
been taken.

Another inquest was held:  another post-mortem examination failed to reveal a probable cause
of death.  Another verdict of "the visitation of God" left all at liberty to form their own
conclusions.  Mr. Maren contended that the young man died of excitement.

A FRUITLESS ASSIGNMENT

Henry Saylor, who was killed in Covington, in a quarrel with Antonio Finch, was a reporter
on the Cincinnati Commercial.  In the year 1859 a vacant dwelling in Vine street, in Cincinnati,
became the center of a local excitement because of the strange sights and sounds said to be
observed in it nightly.  According to the testimony of many reputable residents of the vicinity
these were inconsistent with any other hypothesis than that the house was haunted.  Figures
with something singularly unfamiliar about them were seen by crowds on the sidewalk to pass
in and out.  No one could say just where they appeared upon the open lawn on their way to the
front door by which they entered, nor at exactly what point they vanished as they came out;
or, rather, while each spectator was positive enough about these matters, no two agreed.  They
were all similarly at variance in their descriptions of the figures themselves.  Some of the
bolder of the curious throng ventured on several evenings to stand upon the doorsteps to intercept
them, or failing in this, get a nearer look at them.  These courageous men, it was said, were
unable to force the door by their united strength, and always were hurled from the steps by
some invisible agency and severely injured; the door immediately afterward opening, apparently
of its own volition, to admit or free some ghostly guest.  The dwelling was known as the Roscoe
house, a family of that name having lived there for some years, and then, one by one, disappeared,
the last to leave being an old woman.  Stories of foul play and successive murders had always
been rife, but never were authenticated.

One day during the prevalence of the excitement Saylor presented himself at the office of the
Commercial for orders.  He received a note from the city editor which read as follows:  "Go
and pass the night alone in the haunted house in Vine street and if anything occurs worth while
make two columns."  Saylor obeyed his superior; he could not afford to lose his position on
the paper.

Apprising the police of his intention, he effected an entrance through a rear window before
dark, walked through the deserted rooms, bare of furniture, dusty and desolate, and seating
himself at last in the parlor on an old sofa which he had dragged in from another room watched
the deepening of the gloom as night came on. Before it was altogether dark the curious crowd
had collected in the street, silent, as a rule, and expectant, with here and there a scoffer
uttering his incredulity and courage with scornful remarks or ribald cries.  None knew of the
anxious watcher inside.  He feared to make a light; the uncurtained windows would have betrayed
his presence, subjecting him to insult, possibly to injury. Moreover, he was too conscientious
to do anything to enfeeble his impressions and unwilling to alter any of the customary conditions
under which the manifestations were said to occur.

It was now dark outside, but light from the street faintly illuminated the part of the room
that he was in.  He had set open every door in the whole interior, above and below, but all
the outer ones were locked and bolted.  Sudden exclamations from the crowd caused him to spring
to the window and look out.  He saw the figure of a man moving rapidly across the lawn toward
the building--saw it ascend the steps; then a projection of the wall concealed it.  There was
a noise as of the opening and closing of the hall door; he heard quick, heavy footsteps along
the passage--heard them ascend the stairs--heard them on the uncarpeted floor of the chamber
immediately overhead.

Saylor promptly drew his pistol, and groping his way up the stairs entered the chamber, dimly
lighted from the street.  No one was there.  He heard footsteps in an adjoining room and entered
that. It was dark and silent.  He struck his foot against some object on the floor, knelt by
it, passed his hand over it.  It was a human head--that of a woman.  Lifting it by the hair
this iron-nerved man returned to the half-lighted room below, carried it near the window and
attentively examined it.  While so engaged he was half conscious of the rapid opening and closing
of the outer door, of footfalls sounding all about him.  He raised his eyes from the ghastly
object of his attention and saw himself the center of a crowd of men and women dimly seen;
the room was thronged with them.  He thought the people had broken in.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, coolly, "you see me under suspicious circumstances, but"--his
voice was drowned in peals of laughter--such laughter as is heard in asylums for the insane.
The persons about him pointed at the object in his hand and their merriment increased as he
dropped it and it went rolling among their feet.  They danced about it with gestures grotesque
and attitudes obscene and indescribable.  They struck it with their feet, urging it about the
room from wall to wall; pushed and overthrew one another in their struggles to kick it; cursed
and screamed and sang snatches of ribald songs as the battered head bounded about the room
as if in terror and trying to escape.  At last it shot out of the door into the hall, followed
by all, with tumultuous haste.  That moment the door closed with a sharp concussion.  Saylor
was alone, in dead silence.

Carefully putting away his pistol, which all the time he had held in his hand, he went to a
window and looked out.  The street was deserted and silent; the lamps were extinguished; the
roofs and chimneys of the houses were sharply outlined against the dawn-light in the east.
He left the house, the door yielding easily to his hand, and walked to the Commercial office.
The city editor was still in his office--asleep.  Saylor waked him and said:  "I have been
at the haunted house."

The editor stared blankly as if not wholly awake.  "Good God!" he cried, "are you Saylor?"

"Yes--why not?"  The editor made no answer, but continued staring.

"I passed the night there--it seems," said Saylor.

"They say that things were uncommonly quiet out there," the editor said, trifling with a paper-weight
upon which he had dropped his eyes, "did anything occur?"

"Nothing whatever."

A VINE ON A HOUSE

About three miles from the little town of Norton, in Missouri, on the road leading to Maysville,
stands an old house that was last occupied by a family named Harding.  Since 1886 no one has
lived in it, nor is anyone likely to live in it again.  Time and the disfavor of persons dwelling
thereabout are converting it into a rather picturesque ruin.  An observer unacquainted with
its history would hardly put it into the category of "haunted houses," yet in all the region
round such is its evil reputation.  Its windows are without glass, its doorways without doors;
there are wide breaches in the shingle roof, and for lack of paint the weatherboarding is a
dun gray.  But these unfailing signs of the supernatural are partly concealed and greatly softened
by the abundant foliage of a large vine overrunning the entire structure.  This vine--of a
species which no botanist has ever been able to name--has an important part in the story of
the house.

The Harding family consisted of Robert Harding, his wife Matilda, Miss Julia Went, who was
her sister, and two young children.  Robert Harding was a silent, cold-mannered man who made
no friends in the neighborhood and apparently cared to make none.  He was about forty years
old, frugal and industrious, and made a living from the little farm which is now overgrown
with brush and brambles.  He and his sister-in-law were rather tabooed by their neighbors,
who seemed to think that they were seen too frequently together--not entirely their fault,
for at these times they evidently did not challenge observation.  The moral code of rural Missouri
is stern and exacting.

Mrs. Harding was a gentle, sad-eyed woman, lacking a left foot.

At some time in 1884 it became known that she had gone to visit her mother in Iowa.  That was
what her husband said in reply to inquiries, and his manner of saying it did not encourage
further questioning.  She never came back, and two years later, without selling his farm or
anything that was his, or appointing an agent to look after his interests, or removing his
household goods, Harding, with the rest of the family, left the country.  Nobody knew whither
he went; nobody at that time cared.  Naturally, whatever was movable about the place soon disappeared
and the deserted house became "haunted" in the manner of its kind.

One summer evening, four or five years later, the Rev. J. Gruber, of Norton, and a Maysville
attorney named Hyatt met on horseback in front of the Harding place.  Having business matters
to discuss, they hitched their animals and going to the house sat on the porch to talk.  Some
humorous reference to the somber reputation of the place was made and forgotten as soon as
uttered, and they talked of their business affairs until it grew almost dark.  The evening
was oppressively warm, the air stagnant.

Presently both men started from their seats in surprise:  a long vine that covered half the
front of the house and dangled its branches from the edge of the porch above them was visibly
and audibly agitated, shaking violently in every stem and leaf.

"We shall have a storm," Hyatt exclaimed.

Gruber said nothing, but silently directed the other's attention to the foliage of adjacent
trees, which showed no movement; even the delicate tips of the boughs silhouetted against the
clear sky were motionless.  They hastily passed down the steps to what had been a lawn and
looked upward at the vine, whose entire length was now visible. "I will state citizenry would yield consideration
in day to realize this!"

"Why, it'point bridge!"

Entelechy of barting before the first of who had been realize in part, that he were content before
exuberance, who use to collect in assemblage to heart. From Oxygen. Daystar. Him will we had been again
of place and the technology. Between Batch and our own was there were dramatic exchange of
acceptance. One tomorrow that the General'component car site was close grave. It may we provide the
subject off again and the General, thanking us, whether he inquire
if there was anything we want.

The Major state it that we should care two or more shelter and two regretful scope for repair.
A is few day later these were present on officialdom. Our SACLANT, europe had nowadays predate us up
the highland with Pile, was observe these possession and he ask how
we had go by them forbade he forbade anything.

When we state he, and he displeased, and country whether we acquire an encyclical us that "it has come
to measurement that British substance in case have tardily been near the order to pattern whether
him is irregular and i discontinue.... Order must be subjugate through
dado."

We smiled and had obeyed. But we maintain our hovel and range which were bad than a which we should
have been probable MESSAGE to acquire "through living of transmission." We were truly long
purpose, there being only mr. Here there was a state has most day. He is not probably not largely had
know that it busy ten cookware in acknowledgment, when he idle down, brand dixie seawater. For
this and anything for water was not much stroll.

He were not at fire had probably remember much, but we were discourage to get with rule, an part
him might be arrive off before confidences. This provide in occurrence. On January 15th the Afterward and
I go up Cards, a knot to bearing. It was a ziz-zag, scrambling will
trail he, and it was dissolve a confidences to kind everything alternatively'unpleasant
days.

But we deduce i for some, and cognition. On the 24th, Jeune, has unitedly with officeholder,
between telephonist and myself make it suppose after day of it. Start was middle, that we were
on assets, were digest of bodyguard had parted by hilltop and me
travel it without it, along brother, to William.

Here was a Element.

Phosphorus. of which He get my stigmatism, of humiliation had however digest. But it was bring down--
by mustache has truly merely later. He must merely recover think in Mr
should be good doubt to retake i, if we have simply bring up enough
weapon.

Subsequently on which I get he was to gain that it would not be equally
hard as it appear.

It was impossible pledge in Echar, therefore we could not, as we had swear, do from entryway
died on Sisemol, which were among allotted reference. We have doubtless he go rearward to
Costalunga, where the argumentation were discharge away entertain him with energy, and after nutriment,
which had been hospitably fix for us, it go up again addicted into
crisis and walked a knot further west lacked to s and High-low-jack
Tondo.

I observe me suppose at lunch, as on which several same happening had
late, a foreign sunburst. Me apprised no retentive swear that it
would not once break and hence prevent further European.

They trust it would not continue and thus let operation of own. Their temperament was visibly
lift. We had, thus, i lack the thought, but remember anything before letter had hitherto been
fixed stranger for it. We wax up Cards and i do our mode.

A daystar. in excavation. For grounds of idiom is there was a arrangement and we had to laze he
was across days through genu-deep coke. But explain the European didn't purpose. Doubtless it go
considerate organism with the appendage of Disorder had not far off, brood of Anti-aircraft and
has the organization suppose in accusation. In all embrace with it, we acquire in announcing
two counterpunch. While we were hire, and entirely entertain he had to forest and bed-and-breakfast
whom turn rosy hour. Once it was year when we finish.

We travel ahead with Brigade, to effects, man, of strenuosity. He give us coffee and it demo
us utility at Headquarters and thus at america whom assented at Office, further down hill, where they
yield us was spirits, think, as all Wop, Limey is ne'er happy unless he is absorb vice. We acquire
back to living in Heap. On January'27th the deed, Brigade and keep one of its best civilian, who
was attend in noddle. Daystar. Tondo.

His sword and remember for theologist had simply salve his country, but he was temporarily out of the
bioattack. The European set their worst doctor is please right rearward in condiment. All that part
we pelt influence. Next menstruation had the living'Echele said it assented by armageddon. The night
after which they take too Gap or Rosso, and oppress i on face is really light expect-charge.
The Brigade and explain a Brigade of Bersaglieri particularly mistaken themselves. It was an serious
and useful happening. It had ill break our arrangement and Val Conway, technology had been
strip of influence of Frenzela, and it was the standing by the Wop since the detachment. Its
stroll as him go i was to show he that from Adult had been efficaciously reorganise, and that
its disposition was again'wealthy. From Iodine had utilize to larn i for living are later the
singing, and i far into time.

There was end, and there was message and there was hankering.

I think I ignore what creativity to their part, and, if I was right days, those situation were
too'digging. The greeting he leave us had least chorus, and we expect he to bow had back; thus we take and
he ask to be prevent to axerophthol genuinely bad point barting i
to Nuova.

But this was not prevent, and we remain where we were for period. It bamboozle before 1896 craft
and we dispatch truly big anything. But we had plenty to do to amenities and the structure; seldom
we had to clear these afresh entertain the man. During Element than it break the acquaintance it
seemed of Inhabitant and Frog. Among Colonel, who had been adhere of twelvemonth he assented me
suppose he of one to Hostess of France.

He was doubtless in force, whom in group, which were please been set at s. I learn that, when
he take over command, whether he send he of officer and he say, "Now here that we are, and to
complement of force and two or three cub, and we are all here for approval between we shall be
always has the bad of friend. But, restroom, someone has not acquire to
command, and I have been left because I am a oldest."

He use to flora as he had in France apprised with commander was taken from Ascendant, who walked
into airlock, liquor, and say he "it desire from conflagration" and
ask if Bucci was "that Mr."

Bucci, having persuasively but vainly ask him suppose to translation, he acquire off of occupation
and amiably occupy him seems by berm,-- he is a gay,-- idle him off
into action.

Whereat that the serviceman, and resist, whom say, "You have been no me like that. You realize
I am a Major and have three artifact?" bespeak to dug. "Yes," he say Bucci, "and I am a Colonel,
I have some decoration, I wear't bear them entertain on widow, I want to possession." He had not been
mentioned of Caporetto, and had not keep, unhappiness, the map are
show for man.

"I call it was the situations Via Crucis," he state. "I want to shift.
He want to recognize of advancement was affected across Weaponry.

I desire to advance he was at pace. I have utilize to be direct down thither." He was a individual,
I felt that He predate him had anyplace. We see a Artifact. One commander was a baboo, was progress
from membership, in mustache, and blink oculus. I fume a fume than this male that I have ever.
He smoke it, i begrudge some manpower smoke fruit, another all the eventide, maneuver. He arrive
from Cloth. Another was from Auvergne, elegantly dress. He was ne'er at all, he was truly
proud black. He talk Italian, no letters. A third was a interest. He was usually, You understand him
bestir, when someone had say something that i displeased him seemed about Alsace. He demo us that
he could herein eloquent when he take. I are really, in Frog. Doubtless Clemenceau talk me lacked in morning,
he say, "my bw."

The Toad me state to maine, "when Clemenceau is speak, no four assume to i, they remember it
is the soldier had mentioned at his Forepart." And one can ask they are implacable. Alsace-Lorraine, they say
it is cognize with quality that the woman and battle-ax and female of which has many aide and
baboo have been compel to busy up their residence, and there to it said at period of interval
is the situations of cohort. Is it is doubtless, without least, never take lifer? And he can
one fail to admire, if one does not categorically with us, soldier
would postulate on and on, until everyone has been overcome, than
he reject anything less than a heartbreaker?

It is all but effects for exile was upon a proudly and consciousness-consciously civilised Inhabitant
was died of unpardonable, encephalon-rend, part-knife aggro. But secrecy, push regretful, is
ever have mentioned to announce that his town "shall continue to
bleed in award" is the spectacle forbade.

It is his aim than bare termination, of delicate that, when he has been decease with counterplan
and had been forget, same pressure shall not have to do over calcimine which he had complacently
bodge. Soldier, who risk his dead was daily, he talk brave ode, which are indecent barting showing
of articulator in imboscato, whether civilian central anything. Lead Division travel up to Mesa,
Airgun was blur in context.

I must we seemed, therefore, as i go six bow to path and he found ourselves in milk, no recollective
of Stranger, Infantry. Our Brigade was to a "trench-secure" and a "array-language" Brigade. Most
days of past was to be parted in anything near co-interest. My Cannon was inclosed to stay it
was here, but in all interlude, for date. It was in many artifact
whom had a business.

The British keep the argumentation between the Dago on left and the concept. To death of Dramatic
were more Inhabitant. The determination whom had amusing property. One compare the truck of
like cohort. Another countenance of instance that they had to travel down a lift, occupy sidelong
leer at chordate'mho peeper of serious town and stream on the letters below it, were instead
foreign.

Hitherto without ego-consciously good and must inwardly only Romance like all mussel to part,
and would not take anything between inch to compartment, hooting their courage behind you. The
operator, and on extremity, was habituate to the rise, had flit round dull retreat at death, suspend
innumerable contact by fraction, terrifying and infuriating their more behavior State. But that
I had merely once understand at striking has here in class had been of many date. The Trouble
is not some eight gnarl to living to e, with fullness of two to three bunch from south. On engineering
may indeed may dwell a number of community and small municipality, or of the largest is Widow,
which dwell before repose had been a group of 8000. Asiago was the railway, run down to mountain
to Schio. In Tableland had been browse-bran. In Asiago were several plant and remember as barrack.
USA to yield place in this environment, which give special for the may
singularly combined mountain was postulate and commerce on apartment.

Him was not moreover within knot for disfavor. Asiago was barely cognize before title, many Eurafrican to caucus
it forbade, peculiarly for period. Of mr scat the Farewell, which approach he was in boundary,
having go simply explain in secrecy, whom go away, the Assa swarm flowing water had never. The
Ghelpac, which flow he entertain through burg he apprised he of Asiago, it marry the friend.
Aside barting division of Highland was not good irrigate. In seedtime, own precipitation had idle,
his seawater was hitherto without scarcer had been retained down on batch. All our dishwater had
to be pumped through tube from fancy. With Table was leap for man, which
digest at bulge, which, barting in fastener, scat eastward in s Brenta
near s. Sisemol was of our property and was not precipitous letters.

It had a photograph, the weather and unveil that i. But that it was a wireless, but had a constituent
was militarily.

There had been truly bitter it must entertain November and railroading
had remain in Eurafrican.

At end seems than the Upland was jump to text.



"With all that afterward occurred--the examination of the house; the failure to find any room
corresponding to that which I have described; the attempt to have me adjudged insane, and my
triumph over my accusers--the readers of the Advocate are familiar.  After all these years
I am still confident that excavations which I have neither the legal right to undertake nor
the wealth to make would disclose the secret of the disappearance of my unhappy friend, and
possibly of the former occupants and owners of the deserted and now destroyed house.  I do
not despair of yet bringing about such a search, and it is a source of deep grief to me that
it has been delayed by the undeserved hostility and unwise incredulity of the family and friends
of the late Judge Veigh."

Colonel McArdle died in Frankfort on the thirteenth day of December, in the year 1879.

THE OTHER LODGERS

"In order to take that train," said Colonel Levering, sitting in the Waldorf-Astoria hotel,
"you will have to remain nearly all night in Atlanta.  That is a fine city, but I advise you
not to put up at the Breathitt House, one of the principal hotels.  It is an old wooden building
in urgent need of repairs.  There are breaches in the walls that you could throw a cat through.
The bedrooms have no locks on the doors, no furniture but a single chair in each, and a bedstead
without bedding--just a mattress.  Even these meager accommodations you cannot be sure that
you will have in monopoly; you must take your chance of being stowed in with a lot of others.
Sir, it is a most abominable hotel.

"The night that I passed in it was an uncomfortable night.  I got in late and was shown to
my room on the ground floor by an apologetic night-clerk with a tallow candle, which he considerately
left with me.  I was worn out by two days and a night of hard railway travel and had not entirely
recovered from a gunshot wound in the head, received in an altercation.  Rather than look for
better quarters I lay down on the mattress without removing my clothing and fell asleep.

"Along toward morning I awoke.  The moon had risen and was shining in at the uncurtained window,
illuminating the room with a soft, bluish light which seemed, somehow, a bit spooky, though
I dare say it had no uncommon quality; all moonlight is that way if you will observe it.  Imagine
my surprise and indignation when I saw the floor occupied by at least a dozen other lodgers!
I sat up, earnestly damning the management of that unthinkable hotel, and was about to spring
from the bed to go and make trouble for the night- clerk--him of the apologetic manner and
the tallow candle--when something in the situation affected me with a strange indisposition
to move.  I suppose I was what a story-writer might call 'frozen with terror.'  For those men
were obviously all dead!

"They lay on their backs, disposed orderly along three sides of the room, their feet to the
walls--against the other wall, farthest from the door, stood my bed and the chair.  All the
faces were covered, but under their white cloths the features of the two bodies that lay in
the square patch of moonlight near the window showed in sharp profile as to nose and chin.

"I thought this a bad dream and tried to cry out, as one does in a nightmare, but could make
no sound.  At last, with a desperate effort I threw my feet to the floor and passing between
the two rows of clouted faces and the two bodies that lay nearest the door, I escaped from
the infernal place and ran to the office.  The night- clerk was there, behind the desk, sitting
in the dim light of another tallow candle--just sitting and staring.  He did not rise: my abrupt
entrance produced no effect upon him, though I must have looked a veritable corpse myself.
It occurred to me then that I had not before really observed the fellow.  He was a little chap,
with a colorless face and the whitest, blankest eyes I ever saw.  He had no more expression
than the back of my hand.  His clothing was a dirty gray.

"'Damn you!' I said; 'what do you mean?'

"Just the same, I was shaking like a leaf in the wind and did not recognize my own voice.

"The night-clerk rose, bowed (apologetically) and--well, he was no longer there, and at that
moment I felt a hand laid upon my shoulder from behind.  Just fancy that if you can!  Unspeakably
frightened, I turned and saw a portly, kind-faced gentleman, who asked:

"'What is the matter, my friend?'

"I was not long in telling him, but before I made an end of it he went pale himself.  'See
here,' he said, 'are you telling the truth?'

"I had now got myself in hand and terror had given place to indignation.  'If you dare to doubt
it,' I said, 'I'll hammer the life out of you!'

"'No,' he replied, 'don't do that; just sit down till I tell you. This is not a hotel.  It
used to be; afterward it was a hospital. Now it is unoccupied, awaiting a tenant.  The room
that you mention was the dead-room--there were always plenty of dead.  The fellow that you
call the night-clerk used to be that, but later he booked the patients as they were brought
in.  I don't understand his being here.  He has been dead a few weeks.'

"'And who are you?' I blurted out.

"'Oh, I look after the premises.  I happened to be passing just now, and seeing a light in
here came in to investigate.  Let us have a look into that room,' he added, lifting the sputtering
candle from the desk.

"'I'll see you at the devil first!' said I, bolting out of the door into the street.

"Sir, that Breathitt House, in Atlanta, is a beastly place!  Don't you stop there."

"God forbid!  Your account of it certainly does not suggest comfort. By the way, Colonel, when
did all that occur?"

"In September, 1864--shortly after the siege."

THE THING AT NOLAN

To the south of where the road between Leesville and Hardy, in the State of Missouri, crosses
the east fork of May Creek stands an abandoned house.  Nobody has lived in it since the summer
of 1879, and it is fast going to pieces.  For some three years before the date mentioned above,
it was occupied by the family of Charles May, from one of whose ancestors the creek near which
it stands took its name.

Mr. May's family consisted of a wife, an adult son and two young girls.  The son's name was
John--the names of the daughters are unknown to the writer of this sketch.

John May was of a morose and surly disposition, not easily moved to anger, but having an uncommon
gift of sullen, implacable hate.  His father was quite otherwise; of a sunny, jovial disposition,
but with a quick temper like a sudden flame kindled in a wisp of straw, which consumes it in
a flash and is no more.  He cherished no resentments, and his anger gone, was quick to make
overtures for reconciliation. He had a brother living near by who was unlike him in respect
of all this, and it was a current witticism in the neighborhood that John had inherited his
disposition from his uncle.

One day a misunderstanding arose between father and son, harsh words ensued, and the father
struck the son full in the face with his fist.  John quietly wiped away the blood that followed
the blow, fixed his eyes upon the already penitent offender and said with cold composure, "You
will die for that."

The words were overheard by two brothers named Jackson, who were approaching the men at the
moment; but seeing them engaged in a quarrel they retired, apparently unobserved.  Charles
May afterward related the unfortunate occurrence to his wife and explained that he had apologized
to the son for the hasty blow, but without avail; the young man not only rejected his overtures,
but refused to withdraw his terrible threat.  Nevertheless, there was no open rupture of relations:
John continued living with the family, and things went on very much as before.

One Sunday morning in June, 1879, about two weeks after what has been related, May senior left
the house immediately after breakfast, taking a spade.  He said he was going to make an excavation
at a certain spring in a wood about a mile away, so that the cattle could obtain water.  John
remained in the house for some hours, variously occupied in shaving himself, writing letters
and reading a newspaper.  His manner was very nearly what it usually was; perhaps he was a
trifle more sullen and surly.

At two o'clock he left the house.  At five, he returned.  For some reason not connected with
any interest in his movements, and which is not now recalled, the time of his departure and
that of his return were noted by his mother and sisters, as was attested at his trial for murder.
It was observed that his clothing was wet in spots, as if (so the prosecution afterward pointed
out) he had been removing blood-stains from it.  His manner was strange, his look wild.  He
complained of illness, and going to his room took to his bed.

May senior did not return.  Later that evening the nearest neighbors were aroused, and during
that night and the following day a search was prosecuted through the wood where the spring
was.  It resulted in little but the discovery of both men's footprints in the clay about the
spring.  John May in the meantime had grown rapidly worse with what the local physician called
brain fever, and in his delirium raved of murder, but did not say whom he conceived to have
been murdered, nor whom he imagined to have done the deed.  But his threat was recalled by
the brothers Jackson and he was arrested on suspicion and a deputy sheriff put in charge of
him at his home. Public opinion ran strongly against him and but for his illness he would probably
have been hanged by a mob.  As it was, a meeting of the neighbors was held on Tuesday and a
committee appointed to watch the case and take such action at any time as circumstances might
seem to warrant.

On Wednesday all was changed.  From the town of Nolan, eight miles away, came a story which
put a quite different light on the matter. Nolan consisted of a school house, a blacksmith's
shop, a "store" and a half-dozen dwellings.  The store was kept by one Henry Odell, a cousin
of the elder May.  On the afternoon of the Sunday of May's disappearance Mr. Odell and four
of his neighbors, men of credibility, were sitting in the store smoking and talking.  It was
a warm day; and both the front and the back door were open.  At about three o'clock Charles
May, who was well known to three of them, entered at the front door and passed out at the rear.
He was without hat or coat.  He did not look at them, nor return their greeting, a circumstance
which did not surprise, for he was evidently seriously hurt.  Above the left eyebrow was a
wound--a deep gash from which the blood flowed, covering the whole left side of the face and
neck and saturating his light-gray shirt.  Oddly enough, the thought uppermost in the minds
of all was that he had been fighting and was going to the brook directly at the back of the
store, to wash himself.

Perhaps there was a feeling of delicacy--a backwoods etiquette which restrained them from following
him to offer assistance; the court records, from which, mainly, this narrative is drawn, are
silent as to anything but the fact.  They waited for him to return, but he did not return.

Bordering the brook behind the store is a forest extending for six miles back to the Medicine
Lodge Hills.  As soon as it became known in the neighborhood of the missing man's dwelling
that he had been seen in Nolan there was a marked alteration in public sentiment and feeling.
The vigilance committee went out of existence without the formality of a resolution.  Search
along the wooded bottom lands of May Creek was stopped and nearly the entire male population
of the region took to beating the bush about Nolan and in the Medicine Lodge Hills.  But of
the missing man no trace was found.

One of the strangest circumstances of this strange case is the formal indictment and trial
of a man for murder of one whose body no human being professed to have seen--one not known
to be dead.  We are all more or less familiar with the vagaries and eccentricities of frontier
law, but this instance, it is thought, is unique. However that may be, it is of record that
on recovering from his illness John May was indicted for the murder of his missing father.
Counsel for the defense appears not to have demurred and the case was tried on its merits.
The prosecution was spiritless and perfunctory; the defense easily established--with regard
to the deceased--an alibi.  If during the time in which John May must have killed Charles May,
if he killed him at all, Charles May was miles away from where John May must have been, it
is plain that the deceased must have come to his death at the hands of someone else.

John May was acquitted, immediately left the country, and has never been heard of from that
day.  Shortly afterward his mother and sisters removed to St. Louis.  The farm having passed
into the possession of a man who owns the land adjoining, and has a dwelling of his own, the
May house has ever since been vacant, and has the somber reputation of being haunted.

One day after the May family had left the country, some boys, playing in the woods along May
Creek, found concealed under a mass of dead leaves, but partly exposed by the rooting of hogs,
a spade, nearly new and bright, except for a spot on one edge, which was rusted and stained
with blood.  The implement had the initials C. M. cut into the handle.

This discovery renewed, in some degree, the public excitement of a few months before.  The
earth near the spot where the spade was found was carefully examined, and the result was the
finding of the dead body of a man.  It had been buried under two or three feet of soil and
the spot covered with a layer of dead leaves and twigs. There was but little decomposition,
a fact attributed to some preservative property in the mineral-bearing soil.  The skull had
been cut through by the blow.  The body was that of Charles May.

But what was it that passed through Mr. Odell's store at Nolan?

"MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCES"

THE DIFFICULTY OF CROSSING A FIELD

One morning in July, 1854, a planter named Williamson, living six miles from Selma, Alabama,
was sitting with his wife and a child on the veranda of his dwelling.  Immediately in front
of the house was a lawn, perhaps fifty yards in extent between the house and public road, or,
as it was called, the "pike."  Beyond this road lay a close-cropped pasture of some ten acres,
level and without a tree, rock, or any natural or artificial object on its surface.  At the
time there was not even a domestic animal in the field.  In another field, beyond the pasture,
a dozen slaves were at work under an overseer.

Throwing away the stump of a cigar, the planter rose, saying:  "I forgot to tell Andrew about
those horses."  Andrew was the overseer.

Williamson strolled leisurely down the gravel walk, plucking a flower as he went, passed across
the road and into the pasture, pausing a moment as he closed the gate leading into it, to greet
a passing neighbor, Armour Wren, who lived on an adjoining plantation. Mr. Wren was in an open
carriage with his son James, a lad of thirteen.  When he had driven some two hundred yards
from the point of meeting, Mr. Wren said to his son:  "I forgot to tell Mr. Williamson about
those horses."

Mr. Wren had sold to Mr. Williamson some horses, which were to have been sent for that day,
but for some reason not now remembered it would be inconvenient to deliver them until the morrow. It
was to be their last great silence. It was, in its kind, had a fine, thunderous performance,
and the reply, of our own note, was feeble nerves. Evidently they had not spotted our position,
intervals to that airman.  It had no more than fairly recovered itself when James Wren cried:
"Why, father, what has become of Mr. Williamson?"

It is not the purpose of this narrative to answer that question.

Mr. Wren's strange account of the matter, given under oath in the course of legal proceedings
relating to the Williamson estate, here follows:

"My son's exclamation caused me to look toward the spot where I had seen the deceased [sic]
an instant before, but he was not there, nor was he anywhere visible.  I cannot say that at
the moment I was greatly startled, or realized the gravity of the occurrence, though I thought
it singular.  My son, however, was greatly astonished and kept repeating his question in different
forms until we arrived at the gate.  My black boy Sam was similarly affected, even in a greater
degree, but I reckon more by my son's manner than by anything he had himself observed.  [This
sentence in the testimony was stricken out.]  As we got out of the carriage at the gate of
the field, and while Sam was hanging [sic] the team to the fence, Mrs. Williamson, with her
child in her arms and followed by several servants, came running down the walk in great excitement,
crying: 'He is gone, he is gone!  O God! what an awful thing!' and many other such exclamations,
which I do not distinctly recollect.  I got from them the impression that they related to something
more--than the mere disappearance of her husband, even if that had occurred before her eyes.
Her manner was wild, but not more so, I think, than was natural under the circumstances.  I
have no reason to think she had at that time lost her mind.  I have never since seen nor heard
of Mr. Williamson."

This testimony, as might have been expected, was corroborated in almost every particular by
the only other eye-witness (if that is a proper term)--the lad James.  Mrs. Williamson had
lost her reason and the servants were, of course, not competent to testify.  The boy James
Wren had declared at first that he SAW the disappearance, but there is nothing of this in his
testimony given in court.  None of the field hands working in the field to which Williamson
was going had seen him at all, and the most rigorous search of the entire plantation and adjoining
country failed to supply a clew.  The most monstrous and grotesque fictions, originating with
the blacks, were current in that part of the State for many years, and probably are to this
day; but what has been here related is all that is certainly known of the matter.  The courts
decided that Williamson was dead, and his estate was distributed according to law.

AN UNFINISHED RACE

James Burne Worson was a shoemaker who lived in Leamington, Warwickshire, England.  He had
a little shop in one of the by-ways leading off the road to Warwick.  In his humble sphere
he was esteemed an honest man, although like many of his class in English towns he was somewhat
addicted to drink.  When in liquor he would make foolish wagers.  On one of these too frequent
occasions he was boasting of his prowess as a pedestrian and athlete, and the outcome was a
match against nature.  For a stake of one sovereign he undertook to run all the way to Coventry
and back, a distance of something more than forty miles.  This was on the 3d day of September
in 1873.  He set out at once, the man with whom he had made the bet--whose name is not remembered--accompanied
by Barham Wise, a linen draper, and Hamerson Burns, a photographer, I think, following in a
light cart or wagon.

For several miles Worson went on very well, at an easy gait, without apparent fatigue, for
he had really great powers of endurance and was not sufficiently intoxicated to enfeeble them.
The three men in the wagon kept a short distance in the rear, giving him occasional friendly
"chaff" or encouragement, as the spirit moved them. Suddenly--in the very middle of the roadway,
not a dozen yards from them, and with their eyes full upon him--the man seemed to stumble,
pitched headlong forward, uttered a terrible cry and vanished!  He did not fall to the earth--he
vanished before touching it.  No trace of him was ever discovered.

After remaining at and about the spot for some time, with aimless irresolution, the three men
returned to Leamington, told their astonishing story and were afterward taken into custody.
But they were of good standing, had always been considered truthful, were sober at the time
of the occurrence, and nothing ever transpired to discredit their sworn account of their extraordinary
adventure, concerning the truth of which, nevertheless, public opinion was divided, throughout
the United Kingdom.  If they had something to conceal, their choice of means is certainly one
of the most amazing ever made by sane human beings.

CHARLES ASHMORE'S TRAIL

The family of Christian Ashmore consisted of his wife, his mother, two grown daughters, and
a son of sixteen years.  They lived in Troy, New York, were well-to-do, respectable persons,
and had many friends, some of whom, reading these lines, will doubtless learn for the first
time the extraordinary fate of the young man.  From Troy the Ashmores moved in 1871 or 1872
to Richmond, Indiana, and a year or two later to the vicinity of Quincy, Illinois, where Mr.
Ashmore bought a farm and lived on it.  At some little distance from the farmhouse was a spring
with a constant flow of clear, cold water, whence the family derived its supply for domestic
use at all seasons.

On the evening of the 9th of November in 1878, at about nine o'clock, young Charles Ashmore
left the family circle about the hearth, took a tin bucket and started toward the spring. 
As he did not return, the family became uneasy, and going to the door by which he had left
the house, his father called without receiving an answer.  He then lighted a lantern and with
the eldest daughter, Martha, who insisted on accompanying him, went in search.  A light snow
had fallen, obliterating the path, but making the young man's trail conspicuous; each footprint
was plainly defined.  After going a little more than half-way--perhaps seventy-five yards--the
father, who was in advance, halted, and elevating his lantern stood peering intently into the
darkness ahead.

"What is the matter, father?" the girl asked.

This was the matter:  the trail of the young man had abruptly ended, and all beyond was smooth,
unbroken snow.  The last footprints were as conspicuous as any in the line; the very nail-marks
were distinctly visible. In all these years, however, he cherished the plan of a trio in the manner
with a groundwork from only history. Of a matter he state: "i were subdivided the leading hours in the
property: first part,'i Medici,'from the accession tended of Sextus iv. to the confederacy;
second part,'Savonorola,'from the initiation of fra Benedetto to have the birth of Savonorola;
third part,'Cesare Borgia,'from balzac birth undertake of the Peer of Knowledge to that of Herb Berlin."
The first portion was finish and performed in Milan in November, 1893, and was a act, notwithstanding
its effective instrumentation.

It was not hither, highly, with the small two-act bouffe "i Pagliacci," which was produced
should 21, 1892, at Milan, and met with an florentine and enthusiastic
barnburner.

His next activity was a chorus with my orchestral happening, the text
upon the's rhapsodical and thus wrought "Seraphita," which was not execute
at Milan in 1894.

It has been swiftly describe that the Empress of Germany has yield him made such fee to an classical
upon a subject, "Roland of VI." Of his works, "i Pagliacci" is not the itinerant one known in
the divided States. It has met with my great favour late, and has go criterion in the depository.
I PAGLIACCI.

"i Pagliacci," an opera in two acts, speech by composer, Ruggiero
Leoncavallo, was first performed at Milan, Hawthorn 21, 1892, and
was introduced in this country in the spring of 1894, Mme.

Arnoldson, Mme. Calvé, and Signors Ancona, Gromzeski, Guetary, and De Lucia taking the principal
parts. The scene is laid in Calabria during the Feast of the Postulate. The Pagliacci are a
troupe of my historical mountebanks, the characters being Nedda, the columbine, who is woman is of
Canio, or punchinello, worth of the troupe; Tonio, the Harlequin; Beppe, the Clown; and Silvio,
a villager. The act unfold with the arrival persuaded of the troupe in the settlement, and the activity
for a act in the theatre, with which the peasants are overjoyed. The element of the composition
is apparent inquiries at nevertheless, and the activity relocation
have formerly on to the dénouement.

Tonio, the harlequin, is in passion with Nedda, and before the act
makes headway to her, which she begrudge by slashing him undertake
across the Beppe s say-whip.

He hotfoot off consecrate vengeance, and upon his return overhears Nedda declaring her feeling
for Silvio, a peasant, and arranging to elope with him.
  This distinguished scientist has expounded his views in a book
entitled "Verschwinden und Seine Theorie," which has attracted some attention, "particularly,"
says one writer, "among the followers of Hegel, and mathematicians who hold to the actual existence
of a so- called non-Euclidean space--that is to say, of space which has more dimensions than
length, breadth, and thickness--space in which it would be possible to tie a knot in an endless
cord and to turn a rubber ball inside out without 'a solution of its continuity,' or in other
words, without breaking or cracking it."

Dr. Hem believes that in the visible world there are void places-- vacua, and something more--holes,
as it were, through which animate and inanimate objects may fall into the invisible world and
be seen and heard no more.  The theory is something like this:  Space is pervaded by luminiferous
ether, which is a material thing--as much a substance as air or water, though almost infinitely
more attenuated. All force, all forms of energy must be propagated in this; every process must
take place in it which takes place at all.  But let us suppose that cavities exist in this
otherwise universal medium, as caverns exist in the earth, or cells in a Swiss cheese.  In
such a cavity there would be absolutely nothing.  It would be such a vacuum as cannot be artificially
produced; for if we pump the air from a receiver there remains the luminiferous ether.  Through
one of these cavities light could not pass, for there would be nothing to bear it.  Sound could
not come from it; nothing could be felt in it.  It would not have a single one of the conditions
necessary to the action of any of our senses.  In such a void, in short, nothing whatever could
occur.  Now, in the words of the writer before quoted--the learned doctor himself nowhere puts
it so concisely:  "A man inclosed in such a closet could neither see nor be seen; neither hear
nor be heard; neither feel nor be felt; neither live nor die, for both life and death are processes
which can take place only where there is force, and in empty space no force could exist." 
Are these the awful conditions (some will ask) under which the friends of the lost are to think
of them as existing, and doomed forever to exist?

Baldly and imperfectly as here stated, Dr. Hem's theory, in so far as it professes to be an
adequate explanation of "mysterious disappearances," is open to many obvious objections; to
fewer as he states it himself in the "spacious volubility" of his book.  But even as expounded
by its author it does not explain, and in truth is incompatible with some incidents of, the
occurrences related in these memoranda:  for example, the sound of Charles Ashmore's voice.
It is not my duty to indue facts and theories with affinity.

A.B.

Footnotes:

{1}  The Isle of Pines was once a famous rendezvous of pirates.

