According to the teachings of "Mormonism," Christ's instructions to the people to pray "Thy
Kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven" was not a petition for the impossible,
but a fore-shadowing of what shall eventually be.  We believe that the day shall yet come when
the Kingdom of God on earth shall be one with the Kingdom in heaven; and one King shall rule
in both.  The Church is regarded as the beginning of this Kingdom on earth; though until the
coming of the King, there is no authority in the Church exercising or claiming temporal rule
or dominion among the governments of earth.  Yet the Church is none the less the beginning
of the Kingdom, the germ from which the Kingdom shall develop.

And the Church must be in direct communication with the heavenly Kingdom of which the earthly
Kingdom when established shall be a part.  Of such a nature was the Church in so far as it
existed before the time of Christ's earthly ministry; for the biblical record is replete with
instances of direct communication between the prophets and their God.  The scriptures are silent
as to a single dispensation in which the spiritual leaders of the people depended upon the
records of earlier times and by-gone ages for their guidance; but on the contrary, the evidence
is complete that in every stage of the Church's history the God of heaven communicated his
mind and will unto his earthly representatives. Israel of old were led and governed in all
matters spiritual and to a great extent in their temporal affairs by the direct word of revelation.
Noah did not depend upon the record of God's dealings with Adam or Enoch, but was directed
by the very word and voice of the God whom he represented.  Moses was no mere theologian trained
for his authority or acts on what God had said to Abraham, to Isaac, or to Jacob; he acted
in accordance with instructions given unto him from time to time, as the circumstances of his
ministry required.  And so on through all the line of prophets, major and minor, down to the
priest of the course of Abia unto whom the angel announced the birth of John who was to be
the direct fore-runner of the Messiah.

When the Christ came in the flesh he declared that he acted not of himself but according to
instructions given him of the Father. Thus the Messiah was a revelator, receiving while in
the flesh communication direct and frequent from the heavens.  By such revelation he was guided
in his earthly ministry; by such he instructed his disciples; unto such he taught his apostles
to look for safe guidance when he would have left them.

During his earthly ministry Christ called and ordained men to offices in the Church.  We have
a record of apostles particularly, numbering twelve, and beside these, seventy others who were
commissioned to preach, teach, baptize and perform other ordinances of the Church.  After our
Lord's departure, we read of the apostles continuing their labors in the light of continued
revelation.  By this sure guide they selected and set apart those who were to officiate in
the Church.  By revelation, Peter was directed to carry the gospel to the Gentiles; which expansion
of the work was inaugurated by the conversion of the devout Cornelius and his household.  By
revelation, Saul of Tarsus became Paul the Apostle, a valiant defender of the faith.  Holy
men of old spake and wrote as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost and depended not upon
the precedents of ancient history nor entirely upon the law then already written.  They operated
under the conviction that the living Church must be in communication with its living Head;
and that the work of God, while it was to be wrought out through the instrumentality of man,
was to be directed by him whose work it was, and is.

"Mormonism" claims the same necessity to exist today.  It holds that it is no more nearly possible
now than it was in the days of the ancient prophets or in the apostolic age for the Church
of Christ to exist without direct and continuous revelation from God.  This necessitates the
existence and authorized ministrations of prophets, apostles, high priests, seventies, elders,
bishops, priests, teachers and deacons, now as anciently--not men selected by men without authority,
clothed by human ceremonial alone, nor men with the empty names of office, but men who bear
the title because they possess the authority, having been called of God.

Is it unreasonable, is it unphilosophical, thus to look for additional light and knowledge?
Shall religion be the one department of human thought and effort in which progression is impossible?
What would we say of the chemist, the astronomer, the physicist, or the geologist, who would
proclaim that no further discovery or revelation of scientific truth is possible, or who would
declare that the only occupation open to students of science is to con the books of by-gone
times and to apply the principles long ago made known, since none others shall ever be discovered?

The chief motive impelling to research and investigation is the conviction that to knowledge
and wisdom there is no end. "Mormonism" affirms that all wisdom is of God, that the halo of
his glory is intelligence, and that man has not yet learned all there is to learn of him and
his ways.  We hold that the doctrine of continuous revelation from God is not less philosophical
and scientific than scriptural.

CHAPTER II

The Latter-day Saints affirm that the authority to act in the name of God--the Holy Priesthood--has
been restored to earth in this dispensation and age, in accordance with the inspired predictions
of earlier times.  But, it may be asked, what necessity was there for a restoration if the
Priesthood had been once established upon earth?  None indeed, had it never been taken away.
A general apostasy from the primitive Church is conceded in effect by some authorities in ecclesiastical
history; though few admit the entire discontinuance of priestly power, or the full suspension
of authority to operate in the ordinances of the Church.  This great apostasy was foretold.
Paul warned the Saints of Thessalonica against those who claimed that the second coming of
Christ was then near at hand: "For," said he, "that day shall not come except there come a
falling away first."  (II Thess. 2:3.)  "Mormonism" contends that there has been a general
falling away from the Church of Christ, dating from the time immediately following the apostolic
period.  We believe that the proper interpretation of history will confirm this view; and,
moreover, that the inspired scriptures foretold just such a condition.[5]

[Footnote 5: See "The Great Apostasy: Considered in the Light of Scriptural and Secular History,"
by James E. Talmage.  Published by the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah; 176 pp.]

If the Priesthood had been once taken from the earth no human power could re-establish it;
the restoration of this authority from heaven would be necessary.  The Church claims that in
the present age this restoration has been effected by the personal ministrations of those who
exercised the authority in earlier dispensations.  Thus, in 1829, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery
received the Lesser or Aaronic Priesthood under the hands of John the Baptist, who visited
them as a resurrected being--the same Baptist who by special and divine commission held the
authority of that Priesthood in the dispensation of the "Meridian of Time." Later, the Higher
or Melchizedek Priesthood was conferred upon them through the personal ministrations of Peter,
James, and John--the same three who constituted the presidency of the apostolic body in the
primitive Church, after the departure of the Lord Jesus Christ by whom it was founded.

That the claim is a bold one is conceded without argument.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints professes to have the Priesthood of old restored in its fulness; and, moreover, while
acknowledging the right of every individual as of every sect or other organization of individuals
to believe and practise according to choice in matters religious, it affirms that it is the
only Church on the face of the earth possessing this authority and Priesthood; and that therefore
it is The Church and the only Church of Christ upon the earth today.  It holds as absolutely
indispensable to proper Church organization, the presence of the living oracles of God who
shall be directed from the heavens in their earthly ministry; and these, "Mormonism" asserts,
are to be found with the Church of Jesus Christ.

"Mormonism" emphasizes the doctrine that that which is Caesar's be given unto Caesar, while
that which is God's be rendered unto him.  Therefore, it teaches that all things pertaining
unto earth, and unto man's earthly affairs, may with propriety be regulated by earthly authority,
but that in the performance of any ordinance, rite, or ceremony, claimed to be of effect beyond,
the grave, a power greater than that of man is requisite or the performance is void.  Therefore,
membership in the Church, which, if of any value and significance at all, is of more than temporal
meaning, must be governed by laws which are prescribed by the powers of heaven.  "Mormonism"
recognizes Jesus Christ as the head of the Church, as the literal Savior and Redeemer of mankind,
as the King of kings and Lord of lords, as the One whose right it is to reign on earth, who
shall yet subdue all worldly kingdoms under his feet, who shall present the earth in its final
state of redemption to the Father.  It is his right to prescribe the conditions under which
mankind may be made partakers of his bounty and of the privileges of the victory won by him
over death and the grave.

The Church claims that faith in God is essential to intelligent service of him; and that faith,
trust, confidence in God as the Father of mankind, as the Supreme Being to whom all shall render
account of their deeds and misdeeds, must lead to a desire to serve him and thus produce repentance.
Faith in God and genuine repentance of sin, of necessity, therefore constitute the fundamental
principles of the gospel.  It is reasonable to expect that after man has developed faith in
God, and has repented of his sins, he will be eager to find a means of demonstrating his sincerity;
and this means is found in the requirement concerning baptism as essential to entrance into
the Church, and as a means whereby remission of sins may be obtained.  As to the mode of baptism,
the Church affirms that immersion alone is the one method sanctioned by scripture, and that
this mode has been expressly prescribed by revelation in the present dispensation.

Water baptism, then, becomes a basic principle and the first essential ordinance of the gospel.
It is to be administered by one having authority; and that authority rests in the Priesthood
given of God.  Following baptism by water, comes the ordinance of the bestowal of the Holy
Ghost by the authorized imposition of hands, which constitutes the true baptism of the Spirit.
These requirements, designated specifically the "first principles and ordinances of the gospel,"
"Mormonism" claims to be absolutely essential to membership in the Church of Christ, and this
without modification or qualification as to the time at which the individual lived in mortality.

Then with propriety it may be asked:--What shall become of those who lived and died while the
Priesthood was not operative upon the earth?--those who have worked out their mortal probation
during the ages of the great apostasy?  Furthermore, what shall be the destiny of those who,
though living in a time of spiritual light, perhaps had not the opportunity of learning and
obeying the gospel requirements? Here again the inherent justice of "Mormon" philosophy shows
itself in the doctrine of salvation for the dead.  (John 3:1-5.)

"Mormonism" proclaims something more than a heaven and a hell, to one or the other of which
all spirits of men shall be assigned, perhaps on the basis of a very narrow margin of merit
or demerit. As it affirms the existence of an infinite range of graded intelligences, so it
claims the widest and fullest gradation of conditions of future existence.  It holds that the
honest, though, perchance, mistaken soul who lived or tried to live according to the light
he had received, shall be counted among the honorable of the earth, and shall find opportunity,
if not here then in the hereafter, for compliance with the requirements essential for salvation.
It teaches that repentance with all its attendant blessings shall be possible beyond the grave;
but that inasmuch as the change we call death does not transform the character of the soul,
repentance there will be difficult for him who has ruthlessly and willfully rejected the manifold
opportunities afforded him for repentance here.  It asserts that even the heathen devotee who
may have bowed down to stocks and stones, if in so doing he was obeying the highest law of
worship which to his benighted soul had come, shall have part in the first resurrection, and
shall be afforded the opportunity, which on earth he had not found, of doing that which is
required of God's children for salvation.  And for all the dead who have been without the privileges,
perhaps indeed without the knowledge, of compliance with Christ's law, there shall be given
opportunity in the hereafter.

Nevertheless, this life of ours is no trifle, no insignificant incident in the soul's eternal
course, having but small and temporal importance, the omissions of which can be rectified with
ease by the individual beyond the veil.  If compliance with the divine law as exemplified by
the requirements of faith, repentance, baptism, and the bestowal of the right to the ministrations
of the Holy Ghost, are essential to the salvation of those few who just now are counted among
the living, such is not less necessary for those who once were living but now are dead.  Who
are the living of today but those who shortly shall be added to the uncounted dead?  Who are
the dead but those who at some time have lived in mortality?

Christ has been ordained to be judge of both quick and dead; he is Lord of living and dead
as man uses these terms, for all live unto him.  How then shall the dead receive the blessings
and ordinances denied to them or by them neglected while in the flesh?  "Mormonism" answers:
By the vicarious work of the living in their behalf!  Elijah's visitation to earth has been
realized.  On the 3rd of April, in the year 1836, there appeared unto Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery, in the temple erected by the.  Latter-day Saints at Kirtland, Ohio, Elijah the prophet,
who announced that the time spoken of by Malachi had fully come; then and there he bestowed
the authority, for this dispensation, to inaugurate and carry on this labor in behalf of the
departed.

