To disgust the reader by dragging him through every conceivable horror, physical and moral,
to depict with lurid excitement and with offensive minuteness the life in jail and brothel--all
this is to overreach the object .... Even things actually terrible may become distorted when
a writer screams them out in a sensational way and in a high pitched key...... More convincing
if it were less hysterical.

Don't you see what these clerical crooks are for?

The Jungle

A four years' war was fought in America, a million men were killed and half a continent was
devastated, in order to abolish chattel slavery and put wage slavery in its place. I have made
a thorough study of both these industrial systems, and I freely admit that there is one respect
in which the lot of the wage slave is better than that of the chattel slave. The wage slave
is free to think; and by squeezing a few drops of blood from his starving body, he may possess
himself of machinery for the distribution of his ideas. Taking his chances of the policeman's
club and the jail, he may found revolutionary organizations, and so he has the candle of hope
to light him to his death-bed. But excepting this consideration, and taking the circumstances
of the wage slave from the material point of view alone, I hold it beyond question that the
average lot of the chattel slave of 1860 was preferable to that of the modern slave of the
Beef Trust, the Steel Trust, or the Coal Trust. It was the Southern master's real concern,
his business interest, that the chattel slave should be kept physically sound; but it is nobody's
business to care anything about the wage slave. The children of the chattel slave were valuable
property, and so they got plenty to eat, and a happy outdoor life, and medical attention if
they fell ill. But the children of the sweat-shop or the cotton-mill or the canning-factory
are raised in a city slum, and never know what it is to have enough to eat, never know a feeling
of security or rest--

 We are weary in our cradles
      From our mother's toil untold;
  We are born to hoarded weariness
      As some to hoarded gold.

The system of competitive commercialism, of large-scale capitalist industry in its final flowering!
I quote from "The Jungle":

Here in this city tonight, ten thousand women are shut up in foul pens, and driven by hunger
to sell their bodies to live. Tonight in Chicago there are ten thousand men, homeless and wretched,
willing to work and begging for a chance, yet starving, and fronting with terror the awful
winter cold! Tonight in Chicago there are a hundred thousand children wearing out their strength
and blasting their lives in the effort to earn their bread! There are a hundred thousand mothers
who are living in misery and squalor, struggling to earn enough to feed their little ones!
There are a hundred thousand old people, cast off and helpless, waiting for death to take them
from their torments! There are a million people, men and women and children, who share the
curse of the wage-slave; who toil every hour they can stand and see, for just enough to keep
them alive; who are condemned till the end of their days to monotony and weariness, to hunger
and misery, to heat and cold, to dirt and disease, to ignorance and drunkenness and vice! And
then turn over the page with me, and gaze upon the other side of the picture. There are a thousand--ten
thousand, maybe--who are the masters of these slaves, who own their toil. They do nothing to
earn what they receive, they do not even have to ask for it---it comes to them of itself, their
only care is to dispose of it. They live in palaces, they riot in luxury and extravagance--such
as no words can describe, as makes the imagination reel and stagger, makes the soul grow sick
and faint. They spend hundreds of dollars for a pair of shoes, a handkerchief, a garter; they
spend millions for horses and automobiles and yachts, for palaces and banquets, for little
shiny stones with which to deck their bodies. Their life is a contest among themselves for
supremacy in ostentation and recklessness, in the destroying of useful and necessary things,
in the wasting of the labor and the lives of their fellow-creatures, the toil and anguish of
the nations, the sweat and tears and blood of the human race! It is all theirs--it comes to
them; just as all the springs pour into streamlets, and the streamlets into rivers, and the
rivers into the ocean--so, automatically and inevitably, all the wealth of society comes to
them. The farmer tills the soil, the miner digs in the earth, the weaver tends the loom, the
mason carves the stone, the clever man invents, the shrewd man directs, the wise man studies,
the inspired man sings--and all the results, the products of the labor of brain and muscle,
are gathered into one stupendous stream and poured into their laps!

This is the system. It is the crown and culmination of all the wrongs of the ages; and in proportion
to the magnitude of its exploitation, is the hypocrisy and knavery of the clerical camouflage
which has been organized in its behalf. Beyond all question, the supreme irony of history is
the use which has been made of Jesus of Nazareth as the Head God of this blood-thirsty system;
it is a cruelty beyond all language, a blasphemy beyond the power of art to express.

"And this man"--I quote from "The Jungle" again--"they have made
into the high-priest of property and smug respectability, a
divine sanction of all the horrors and abominations of modern
commercial civilization! Jewelled images are made of him, sensual
priests burn insense to him, and modern pirates of industry bring
their dollars, wrung from the toil of helpless women and
children, and build temples to him, and sit in cushioned seats
and listen to his teachings expounded by doctors of dusty
divinity!"                                      
                 Milton.

The Head Merchant

Ours is the era of commerce, as its propagandists never weary of telling us. Business is the
basis of our material lives, and consequently of our culture. Business men control our politics
and dictate our laws; business men own our newspapers and direct their policy; business men
sit on our school boards, and endow and manage our universities. The Reformation was a revolt
of the newly-developing merchant classes against the tyrannies and abuses of feudal clericalism:
so in all Protestant Christianity one finds the spirit, ideals, and language of Trade. We have
shown how the symbolism of the Anglican Church is of the palace and the throne; in the same
way that of the non-conformist sects may be shown to be of the counting-house. In the view
of the middle-class Britisher, the nexus between man and man is cent per cent; and so in their
Sunday services the worshippers sing such hymns as this:

 Whatever, Lord, we lend to Thee,
  Repaid a thousand fold shall be;
  Then gladly will we give to Thee,
           Who givest all.

The first duty of every man under the competitive system is to secure the survival of his own
business; so on the Sabbath, when he comes to deal with eternity, he is practical and explicit:

 Nothing is worth a thought beneath
  But how I may escape the death 
     That never, never dies;
  How make mine own election sure,
  And when I fail on earth secure
      A mansion in the skies.

Just as the priest of the aristocratic caste figures God as a mighty Conqueror--

          Marching as to war
  With the cross of Jesus
           Going on before

so the preacher to the trader figures the divinity as a glorified Merchant keeping books. This
Head Merchant has a monopoly in His line; He knows all His rivals' secrets, so there is no
getting ahead of Him, and nothing to do but obey His Word, as revealed through His clerical
staff. The system is oily with protestations of divine love; but when you read the comments
of Luther upon Calvin and of Calvin upon Luther, you understand that this love is confined
to the inside of each denomination. And even so restricted, there is not always enough to go
around. Recently I met a Presbyterian clergyman, to whom I remarked, "I see by the papers that
you have just finished a church building." "Yes," he answered; "and I have had three offers
of a new church." I did not see the connection, and asked, "Because you were so successful
with this one?" The reply was, "They always take it for granted that you want to change when
you've finished a new building, because you make so many enemies!"

The business man puts up the money to build the church, he puts up the money to keep it going;
and the first rule of a business man is that when he puts up the money for a thing he "runs"
that thing. Of course he sees that it spreads his own views of life, it helps to maintain his
tradition. In the days of Anu and Baal we heard the proclamation of the divine right of Kings;
in these days of Mammon we hear the proclamation of the divine right of Merchants. Some fifteen
years ago the head of our Coal Trust announced during a great strike that the question would
be settled "by the Christian men to whom God in His Infinite Wisdom has given control of the
property interests of this country". And on that declaration all pious merchants stand; whatever
their denominations, Catholic, Episcopalian, Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian or Hebrew, their
Sabbath doctrines are alike, as their week-day practices are alike; whether it is Rockefeller
shooting his Bayonne oil-workers and burning alive the little children of his miners; or smooth
John Wanamaker, paying starvation wages to department-store girls and driving them to the streets;
or that clergyman who, at a gathering of society ladies, members of the "Law and Order League"
of Denver, declared in my hearing that if he could have his way he would blow up the home of
every coal-striker with dynamite; or the Rev. R. A. Torrey, Dean of the Bible institute of
Los Angeles, who refused to employ union labor on the million dollar building of the Institute,
declaring that "the Church cannot afford to have any dealings with a band of fire-bugs and
murderers!"

"Herr Beeble"

The business of the Clerical Department of the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association is
to justify the processes of trade, and to preach to clerks and employees the slave-virtues
of frugality, humility, and loyalty to the profit system. The depths of sociological depravity
to which some of the agents of this Association have sunk is difficult of belief. Twelve years
ago I was invited to address the book-sellers of New York, in company with a well-known clergyman
of the city, the Reverend Madison C. Peters. This gentleman's address made such an impression
upon me that I recall it even at this distance: a string of jokes spoken with an effect of
rapid-fire smartness, and simply reeking with commercialism. I could not describe it better
than to say that it was on the ethical level of the "Letters of a Self-Made Merchant to His
Son". Again, I attended a debate on Socialism, in which the capitalist end was taken by another
famous clergyman, pastor of the Metropolitan Temple, the Rev. J. Wesley Hill. He was so ignorant
that when he wished to prove that Socialism means free love, he quoted a writer by the name
of "Herr Beeble"; he was so dishonest that he garbled the writings of this "Herr Beeble", making
him say something quite different from what he had meant to say. I could name several clergymen
of various denominations who have stooped to that device against the Socialists; including
the Catholic Father Belford, who says that we are mad dogs and should be stopped with bullets.

Or consider the Reverend Thomas Dixon. This gentleman's pulpit-slang used to be the talk of
New York when I was a boy; and when I grew up, and came into the Socialist movement--behold,
here he was, chief inquisitor of the capitalist Holy Office. I had a friend, a man who saved
my life at a time when I was practically starving, and to whom therefore I owe my survival
as a writer; this friend had been a clergyman in a Middle Western state, and had preached Jesus
as he really was, and so was hated and feared like Jesus. It happened that he was unhappily
married, and permitted his wife to divorce him so that he might marry the woman he loved; for
which unheard of crime the organized hypocrisy of America fell upon him like a thousand devils
with poisoned whips. The Reverend Dixon's holy rage was fired; he applied his imagination to
my friend's story, producing a novel under the title of "The One Woman"; and it is as if you
were reading the story of Jesus and the Magdalen transmitted through the personality of a he-goat.
Of late years this clerical author has turned his energies to negrophobia, and militarism,
making millions out of motion-picture incitements to hatred and terror. The pictures were made
here in Southern California, and friends in the business have described to me the pious propagandist
in the position of St. Anthony surrounded by swarms of cute and playful little movie-girls.

Or take the Rev. James Roscoe Day, D. D., S. T. D., L. L. D., D. C. L., L. H. D., a leading
light of the Methodist Episcopal Church, who offers himself as comic relief in our Clerical
Vaudeville. Dr. Day is Chancellor of Syracuse University, a branch of the Mental Munitions
Department of the Standard Oil Company; his function being to manufacture intellectual weapons
and explosives to be used in defense of the Rockefeller fortune. It is generally not expected
that the makers of ruling-class munitions should face the dirty and perilous work of the trenches;
but ten years ago, during a raid by an active squad of muckrake-men, Chancellor Day astonished
the world by rushing to the front with both arms full of star-shells and bombs. He afterwards
put the history of this gallant action into a volume, "The Raid on Prosperity"; and if you
want the real thrill of the class-war, here is where to get it!

The Chancellor is a quaint and touching figure; an enthusiast and dreamer, idealist and martyr,
in whom the ordinary human virtues have been fused, absorbed, transformed and sublimated into
a new supreme virtue of loyalty to Exploitation, patriotism for Profiteering. He began life
as a working-man, he tells us, in the good old American fashion of hustle for yourself; but
he differed from other Americans in that he had an instant, intuitive recognition of the intellectual
and moral excellence of Plutocracy. The first time he met a rich man, he quivered with rapture,
he burst into a hymn of appreciation. So very quickly he was recognized as a proper person
to have charge of a Mental Munition Works; and the ruling classes proceeded to pin medals upon
the bosom of his academic robes--D. D., S. T. D., L. L. D., D. C. L., L. H. D.

The Chancellor knows the masters of our Profit System, those "consummate geniuses of manufacture
and trade by which the earth has yielded up her infinite treasures." And having been at the
same time in intimate daily communion with the Almighty, he can tell us the Almighty's attitude
towards these prodigies. "God has made the rich of this world to serve Him.... He has shown
them a way to have this world's goods and to be rich towards God .... God wants the rich men
....Christ's doctrines have made the world rich, and provide adequate uses for its riches."
Also the Chancellor knows our great corporations, and gives us the Almighty's views about them;
they mean that "the forces with which God built the universe have been put into the hands of
man." Likewise by divine authority we learn that "the sympathy given to Socialism is appalling.
It is insanity." We learn that the income tax is "a doctrine suited to the dark ages, only
no age ever has been dark enough." Somebody raises the issue of "tainted money", and the Chancellor
disposes of this matter also. As a Deputy of Divinity, he settles it by Holy Writ: "Paul permitted
meat offered to idols to be eaten in the fear of God." And then, to make assurance doubly sure,
he settles it with plain human logic; and you are astonished to see how simple, under his handling,
the complex problem becomes--how clear and clean-cut is the distinction he draws for you:

Every boy knows that one cannot take stolen goods without being a partaker with the thief.
But the proceeds of recognized business are quite a different thing.

Holy Oil

And here is Billy Sunday, most conspicuous phenomenon of Protestant Christianity at the beginning
of the twentieth century. For the benefit of posterity I explain that "Billy" is a baseball
player turned Evangelist, who has brought to the cause of God the crowds and uproar of the
diamond; also the commercial spirit of America's most popular institution. He travels like
a circus, with all the press-agent work and newspaper hurrah; he conducts what are called "revivals",
in an enormous "tabernacle" built especially for him in each city. I cannot better describe
the Billy Sunday circus than in the words of a certain Sidney C. Tapp, who brought suit against
the evangelist for $100,000 damages for the theft of the ideas of a book. Says Mr. Tapp in
his complaint:

The so-called religious awakening or "trail-hitting" is produced by an appeal to the emotions
and in stirring up the senses by a combination of carrying the United States flag in one hand
and the Bible in the other, singing, trumpeting, organ playing, garrulous and acrobatic feats
of defendant, by defendant in his talk leaping from the rostrum to the top of the pulpit, lying
prone on the floor of the rostrum on his stomach in the presence of the vast audience and from
thence into a pit to shake hands with the so-called "trail-hitters" and the vulgar use of plaintiff's
thoughts contained in said books. Said harangues and vulgarisms of said defendant and horns,
drums, organs and singing by said choir and vast audience which are assembled by means of said
newspaper advertisements for the purpose of inducing a habit of free and copious flow of money
through religious and patriotic excitement produced by and through the vulgarisms, scurrility,
buffoonery, obscenity and profanity of defendant pretending to be in the interest of the cause
of religion through what he denominates "hitting the trail", the real object being to induce
a religious frenzy and enthusiasm which he announces in advance is to result in large audiences
composed of thousands of people generously contributing vast sums of money on the last day
and night of the so-called revival which is invariably appropriated by the defendant and through
which scheme and device defendant has become enormously wealthy.

As I write, the evangelist is in Los Angeles, and twice each day he holds forth to a crowd
of ten or fifteen thousand; in addition the newspapers print literally pages of his utterances.
The entire Protestant clergy for a score of miles around has been hitched to his triumphal
chariot, and driven captive through the streets. Here in this dignified city of Pasadena, home
of millionaire brewers and chewing-gum kings, all the churches have been plastered for weeks
with cloth signs: "This Church is Cooperating in the Sunday Campaign." To give a sample of
the intellectual level of the performance, here is what Billy has to say about modern thought:

All this blasphemy against God and Jesus Christ, all this sneering, highbrow, rotten, loathesome,
higher criticism, wriggling its dirty, filthy, stinking carcass out of a beer-mug in Leipzig
or Heidelberg!

Whether willingly or reluctantly, the preachers sit upon the platform and smile while Billy
thus slangs the devil; and being themselves, poor fellows, at their wits end to draw the crowd,
they watch and see how he does it, and then return to their own churches and try the same stunt;
so the manners of the baseball diamond spread like a contagion. I open my morning paper, and
find a picture of an intense-looking clerical gentleman, the Rev. J. Whitcomb Brougher, pastor
of the Baptist Temple. He is discussing certain slanderous rumors which he has heard about
Billy Sunday, and he offers ten thousand dollars reward to anyone who can prove these things;
though, as he says,

The dirty, low-down, contemptible, weazen-brained, impure-hearted, shrivelled-souled, gossipping
devils do not deserve to be noticed..... Scandal-mongers, gossip-lovers, reputation-destroyers,
hypocritical, black-hearted, green-eyed slanderers..... Corrupt, devil-possessed, vile debauches.....
Immoral, sin-loving, vice-practicing, underhanded sneaks..... Carrion-loving buzzards and foul-smelling
skunks.

You will be prepared after this to hear that when the Socialists were near to carrying Los
Angeles, this clergyman preached a sermon in support of the candidate of "Booze, Gas and Railroads".

In so far as Billy Sunday is trying to keep the neglected youth of our streets from drinking,
gambling and whoring, no one could wish him anything but success; but his besotted ignorance,
his childish crudity of mind, make it impossible that he could have any success except of a
delusive nature. He is utterly devoid of a social sense; utterly unaware of the existence of
the forces of capitalism which are causing depravity ten times as fast as all the evangelists
in creation can remedy it. So he is precisely like the Catholics with their "charity", cleaning
up loathsome and unsightly messes for a thousand years, and never stopping to ask why such
messes continue to come into existence.

More than that, I question whether the spirit of commercialism which he fosters does not help
the development of evil more than his preaching hinders it. The newspapers always report the
cost of the tabernacle, of the "free-will offering", which amounts to hundreds of thousands
of dollars in each "campaign", In each city the expenses are guaranteed by men who are generally
the most sinister exploiting forces of the community; they welcome and fete him, and he visits
their homes, and is in every way one of the crowd. After the big strike in Paterson, N. J.,
the employers, Jews and Catholics included, all subscribed a fund to bring Billy Sunday to
that city; and it was freely proclaimed that the purpose was to undermine the radical union
movement. This was never denied by Sunday himself, and his whole campaign was conducted on
that basis.

Later Billy came to New York, where he met a certain rich young man, perhaps a thousand times
as rich as any that lived in Palestine. This young man came to Billy and said: "What shall
I do to inherit eternal life?" The young man answered; "All these have I kept from my youth
up." That is what happened in Palestine. What happened in New York is that Billy said, "I am
delighted to meet you, Mr. Rockefeller." And Mr. Rockefeller said, "Come be my guest at my
palace in the Pocantico Hills; and then we will go together and you may preach submission to
my wage-slaves in the oil-factories at Bayonne and elsewhere." And Billy went to the palace,
and went and preached to the wage-slaves, telling them to beware the "stinking Socialists",
and to concentrate their attention on the saving of their souls; so the rich young man was
delighted, and he sent for all the newspaper reporters to come to his office at 26 Broadway,
and told them what a great and useful man Billy Sunday is. As the New York "Times" tells about it:

Mr. Rockefeller seldom gives interviews and certainly he has never been charged with having
an excess of verbally expressed enthusiasm on any subject. But he talked for an hour and a
half about the evangelist. He was full of the subject of Billy Sunday. "Billy did New York
a lot of good," he said. He went on to tell of 187 meetings held in 100 different factories,
attended by 50,000 men. "That's good work." And he expressed his satisfaction with Sunday's
theology: "He believes the Bible from cover to cover and that is good enough for me." The Sunday
campaign had cost $200,000, and "If it had stopped here, if it was not kept up, it would be
poor business; a poor dividend on the $200,000 and the work invested. But we expect to get
dividends in the next year."

Again you note the symbolism of the counting-house!

Rhetorical Black-hanging

It is the duty of the clergy, not merely to defend large-scale merchants while they live, but
to bury them when they die, and to place the seal of sanctity upon their careers. When a certain
king of Western railroads died, a Methodist clergyman, afterwards Bishop, likened his heir
to the boy Christ; a statement which requires for its appreciation a mention of the fact that
this heir died of syphilis. In the year 1904 there passed from his earthly reward in Pennsylvania
a United States senator who had been throughout his lifetime a notorious and unblushing corruptionist.
Matthew Stanley Quay was his name, and the New York "Nation", having no clerical connections,
was free to state the facts about him:

He bought the organization, bribed or intimidated the press, got his grip on the public service,
including even the courts; imposed his will on Congress and Cabinet, and upon the last three
Presidents--making the latter provide for the offal of his political machine, which even Pennsylvania
could no longer stomach--and all without identifying his name with a single measure of public
good, without making a speech or uttering a party watchword, without even pretending to be
honest, but solely because, like Judas, he carried the bag and could buy whom he would.

Such was the lay opinion; and now for the clerical. It was expressed by a Presbyterian divine,
the Reverend Dr. J. S. Ramsey, who stood over the coffin of "Matt", and without cracking a
smile declared that he had been "a statesman who was always on the right side of every moral
question!"

In that same year of 1904 died the high priest of our political corruption, Mark Hanna. He
had belonged to no church, but had backed them all, understanding the main thesis of this book
as clearly as the writer of it. In his home city of Cleveland the eulogy upon him was pronounced
by Bishop Leonard, in St. Paul's Episcopal Church; while in the United States Senate the service
was performed by the Chaplain, the Rev. Edward Everett Hale. This is a name well-known in American
letters, as in American religious life; it was borne by a benevolent old gentleman, a Unitarian
and a liberal, who organized "Lend-a-Hand Clubs" and such like amiabilities. "Do You Love This
Old Man?" the signs in the street-cars used to ask when I was a boy; and I promptly answered
"Yes"--for my mother took the "Ladies' Home Journal", and I swallowed the sentimental dish-water
set out for me. But when I read the Rev. Edward's funeral oration over the Irrev. Mark, I loved
neither of them any longer. "This whole-souled child of God," cried the Rev. Edward, "who believed
in success, and knew how to succeed by using the infinite powers!" You perceive that the Chaplain
of the Millionaires' Club agrees with this book, that the "infinite powers" in America are
the powers that prey!

The Great American Fraud

Among the most loathesome products of our native commercial greed is the patent medicine industry,
"The Great American Fraud," as its historian has called it. In 1907 this historian wrote:

Gullible America will spend this year some seventy-five millions of dollars in the purchase
of patent medicines. In consideration of this sum it will swallow huge quantities of alcohol,
an appalling amount of opiates and narcotics, a wide assortment of varied drugs ranging from
powerful and dangerous heart depressants to insidious liver stimulants; and, far in excess
of all other ingredients, undiluted fraud. For fraud, exploited by the skillfullest of advertising
bunco men, is the basis of the trade.

One by one Mr. Adams tells about these medical fakes: habit-forming laxatives, head-ache powders
full of acetanilid, soothing-syrups and catarrh-cures full of opium and cocaine, cock-tails
subtly disguised as "bitters", "sarsaparillas", and "tonics". He shows how the fake testimonials
are made up and exploited; how the confidential letters, telling the secret troubles of men
and women, are collected by tens and hundreds of thousands and advertised and sold--so that
the victim, as he begins to lose faith in one fake, finds another at hand, fully informed as
to his weakness. He quotes the amazing "Red Clause" in the contracts which the patent-medicine
makers have with thousands of daily and weekly papers, whereby the makers are able to control
the press of the country and prevent legislation against the "Great American Fraud."

There are a thousand religious papers in America, weekly and monthly; and what is their attitude
on this question? Mr. Adams tells us:

Whether because church-going people are more trusting, and therefore more easily befooled than
others, or from some more obscure reason, many of the religious papers fairly reek with patent
medicine fakes.

He gives us many pages of specific instances:

Dr. Smith belongs to the brood of cancer vampires. He is a patron and prop of religious journalism.
It is his theory that the easiest prey is to be found among readers of church papers. Moreover
he has learned from his father-in-law (who built a small church out of blood-money) to capitalize
his own sectarian associations, and when confronted recently with a formal accusation he replied,
with an air of injured innocence, that he was a regular attendant at church, and could produce
an endorsement from his minister.

And here is the "Church Advocate", of Harrisburg, Pa., which publishes quack advertisements
disguised as editorials. One of them Mr. Adams paraphrases:

As Dr. Smith is, on the face of his own statements, a self-branded swindler and rascal, you
run no risk in assuming that the Rev. C. H. Forney, D. D., L. L. D., in acting as his journalistic
supporter for pay, is just such another as himself!

And again:

Will the editor of the "Baptist Watchman" of Boston explain by what phenomenon of logic or
elasticity of ethics he accepts the lucubrations of Dr. Bye, of Oren Oneal, of Liquozone, of
Actina, that marvelous two-ended mechanical appliance which "cures" deafness at one terminus
and blindness at the other, and all with a little oil of mustard?

And again:

The "Christian Observer" of Louisville replied to a protesting subscriber, suggesting that
the "Collier" articles were written in a spirit of revenge, because "Collier's" could not get
patent medicine advertising. When I asked the Rev. F. Bartlett Converse for his foundation
for the charge, he said that one of the typewriters must have written the letter! Doubtless
also the same highly responsible typewriter imitated the signature with startling fidelity
to Dr. Converse's handwriting!

And here is--would you think it possible?--our "Church of Good Society"! It has an organ in
Chicago called the "Living Church", most dignified and decorous. You have to study quite a
while to ascertain what denomination it belongs to; it will not tell you directly, for the
Anglician pose is that it is the church

 Elect from every nation,
      Yet one oer all the earth,
  Her charter of salvation,
      One Lord, one Faith, one Birth;
  One holy name she blesses,
      Partakes one holy food,
  And toward one Hope she presses,
      With every grace endued.

And this one holy institution was found setting at its peak the black flag of the trader, the
"Jolly Roger" of the modern commercial pirate--"Caveat emptor!" To quote the precise words:

The editors and publishers of the "Living Church" assume no responsibility for the assertions
of advertisers.

And so it threw open its columns to the claims of America's champion labor-baiter, the late
C. W. Post, that his "Grapenuts" would prevent appendicitis, and obviate the need of operations
in such cases!

And here is the "Christian Endeavor World", organ of one of the most powerful non-sectarian
religious bodies in the country. Some one wrote complaining of its medical advertising, and
the answer was:

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we are not publishing any fraudulent or unworthy medical
advertising ...... Trusting that you will be able to understand that we are acting according
to our best and sincerest judgment, I remain, yours very truly, The Golden Rule Company, George
W. Coleman, Business Manager.

Whereupon the historian of "The Great American Fraud" remarks:

Assuming that the business management of the "Christian Endeavor World" represents normal intelligence,
I would like to ask whether it accepts the statement that a pair of "magic foot drafts" applied
to the soles of the feet will cure any and every kind of rheumatism in any part of the body?
Further, if the advertising department is genuinely interested in declining "fraudulent and
unworthy" copy, I would call their attention to the ridiculous claims of Dr. Shoop's medicines,
which "cure" almost every disease; to two hair removers, one an "Indian Secret", the other
an "accidental discovery", both either fakes or dangerous; to the lying claims of Hall's Catarrh
Cure, that it is "a positive cure for catarrh", in all its stages; to "Syrup of Figs", which
is not a fig syrup, but a preparation of senna; to Dr. Kilmer's Swamp Root, of which the principal
medical constituent is alcohol; and, finally, to Dr. Bye's Oil Cure for cancer, a particularly
cruel swindle on unfortunates suffering from an incurable malady. All of these, with other
matter, which for the sake of decency I do not care to detail in these columns, appear in recent
issues of the "Christian Endeavor World".

Riches in Glory

There came recently to Los Angeles a "world-famous evangelist", known as "Gipsy" Smith. There
was a shirt-waist strike at the time, and the girls were starving, and they sent a delegation
to this evangelist to ask for help. They told him how they were mistreated, exposed to insults,
driven to sell their virtue because their wage would not support life; and to their plea he
made answer: "Get Jesus in your hearts, and these questions will take care of themselves!"

So we see the most important of the many services which the churches perform for the merchants--taking
the revolutionary hope of Jesus, for a kingdom of heaven upon earth, and perverting it into
a dream of a golden harp in an uncertain future. To appreciate the fullness of this betrayal,
take the prayer which Jesus dictated--so simple, direct and practical: "Give us this day our
daily bread", and put it beside the hymns which the slave-congregations are trained to sing.
In my neighborhood is a one-roomed building with a plate glass front, upon which I observe
a painter inscribing in red, white and blue letters the sign "Glory Mission". I approach him,
and he drops his work and welcomes me with eager cordiality. Am I "living in grace"? I answer
that I am. I have to shout the good tidings into his ear, as he is very deaf. He presents me
with his card, which shows that he bears the title of "Reverend", also the sobriquet of "Mountain
Missionary". I ask him to permit me to examine the hymn-book which he uses in his work, and
with touching eagerness he presses upon me a well-worn volume bearing the title "Waves of Glory".
I seat myself and note down a few of the baits it sets out for hungry wage-slaves:

 O, there's a plenty, O, there's a plenty,
  There's a plenty in my Father's bank above!

 Riches in glory, riches in glory,
  Royal supply our wants exceed!

 Feasting, I'm feasting,
  I'm feasting with my Lord!

 Beautiful robes, beautiful robes,
  Beautiful robes we then shall wear!

 Jerusalem the golden,
  With milk and honey blest!

 Yes, I'll meet you in the city of the New Jerusalem,
  I'll be there, I'll be there!

 Blest Canaan land, bright Canaan land,
  I love to be in Canaan land!

 Oh, Beulah land, sweet Beulah land,
  As on the highest mount I stand,
  I look away across the sea,
  Where mansions are prepared for me!

 In the sweet bye and bye
  We shall meet on that beautiful shore--

I stopped there, being reminded of Joe Hill, poet of the I. W. W. who was hanged three or four
years ago in Utah, and who used this tune in his little red book of revolutionary chants:

 You will eat, bye and bye,
  In the glorious land above the sky;
  Work and pray, live on hay,
  You'll get pie in the sky when you die!

Captivating Ideals

In one of the writer's earlier novels, "Prince Hagen", the hero is a Nibelung out of Wagner's
"Rheingold", who leaves his diggings in the bowels of the earth, and comes up to look into
our superior civilization. The thing that impresses him most is what he calls "the immortality
idea". The person who got that up was a world-genius, he exclaims. "If you can once get a man
to believing in immortality, there is no more left for you to desire; you can take everything
he owns--you can skin him alive if it pleases you--and he will bear it all with perfect good
humor."

And is that merely the spiritual deficiency of a Nibelung--or the effort of a young author
to be smart? Would you like to hear that view of the most vital of Christian doctrines set
forth in the language of scholarship and culture? Would you like to know how an ecclesiastical
authority, equipped with every tool of modern learning, would set about voicing the idea that
the function of the teaching of Heaven is to chloroform the poor, so that the rich may continue
to rob them in security?

Here under my hand is a volume in the newest dress of scholarship, dated 1912, and written
by Professor Georges Chatterton-Hill, of the University of Geneva. Its title is "The Sociological
Value of Christianity", and from cover to cover it is a warning to the rich of the danger they
run in giving up their religion and ceasing to support its priests. It explains how "the genius
of Christianity has succeeded in making the individual suffering, the individual sacrifices,
which are indispensible for the welfare of the collectivity, appear as indispensible for the
individual welfare." The learned professor makes plain just what he means by "individual suffering,
individual sacrifices"; he means all the horrors of capitalism; and the advantage of Christianity
is that it makes you think that by submitting to these horrors, you are profiting your own
soul. "By making individual salvation depend on the acceptance of suffering, on the voluntary
sacrifice of egotistical interests, Christianity adapts the individual to society". And this,
as the professor explains, is not an easy thing to do, in a world in which so many people are
thinking for themselves. "The only means of causing the rationalized individual to consent
to the sacrifice...... is to captivate him with a sufficiently powerful idea!" And the professor
shows how beautifully Jesus can be used for this purpose. "Jesus, the so-called humanitarian,
never ceased to insist on the necessity of suffering, the desirableness of suffering--of that
suffering which a weak and sickly humanitarianism would fain suppress if it could."

You get this, you "blanket-stiff", you "husky", or "wop", or whatever you are--you disinherited
of the earth, you proletarians who have only your labor-power to sell, you weak and sickly
ones who are condemned to elimination? There has come, let us say, a period of "overproduction";
you have raised too much food, and therefore you are starving, you have woven too much cloth,
and therefore you are naked, you have finished the world for your masters, and it is time for
you to move out of the way. As the sociologist from Geneva phrases it, "Your suppression imposes
itself as an imperious necessity." And the function of the Christian religion is to make you
enjoy the process, by "captivating you with a sufficiently powerful ideal"! The priest will
fill your nostrils with incense, your eyes with candle-lights and images, your ears with sweet
music and soothing words; and so you will perish without raising a finger! "Here," reflects
the professor, "we see how magnificently the teaching of Jesus applies to all classes of society!"

Somebody has evidently put up to our Christian sociologist the embarrassing fact that so many
of those who survive under the capitalist system are godless scoundrels. But do you think that
troubles him? Not for long. Like all religious thinkers, he carries with his scholar's equipment
a pair of metaphysical wings, wherewith at any moment he may soar into the empyrean, out of
reach of vulgar materialists, like you and me. "Inequality signifies inequality of capacity,"
he explains; but the standard whereby we judge this capacity "cannot be the standard of the
moral law."

The laws which govern the biological evolution of man are known, but those which govern his
moral nature cannot be known; the moral nature appertains to the Absolute, and hence is not
subject to the law of inequality!

As an exhibition of metaphysical wing-power, that is almost as wonderful as the flight of Cardinal
Newman when confronted with the fact that his divinely guided church had burned men for teaching
the Copernican view of the universe; that infallible popes had again and again condemned this
heresy ex cathedra.

Spook Hunting

Do not imagine that it is only in Geneva that Christian professors realize this peril from
the loss of faith. It is never far from the thoughts of any of them--for, of course, no man
can look at the present system and not wonder how the poor stand it, and more especially why
they stand it. There have been many thinking men who have given up the miracle-business quite
cheerfully, but have stood appalled at the idea of letting the lower classes find out the truth.
You note that idea continually in the writings of Professor Goldwin Smith, who was a free-thinker,
but also a bourgeois publicist, with a deep sense of responsibility to the money-masters of
the world. He was about as honest a man as the capitalist system can produce; he was the beau
ideal of the New York "Evening Post", which indicates his point of view. He wrote:

It can hardly be doubted that hope of compensation in a future state, for a short measure of
happiness here, has materially helped to reconcile the less favored members of the community
to the inequalities of the existing order of things.

When I was a student in Columbia University, I took a course called "Practical Ethics", under
a professor by the name of Hyslop. The course differed from most of the forty that I tried,
in that it gave evidence that the professor was accustomed to read the morning paper. He had
learned that American politics were rotten; his idea of "Practical Ethics" was to outline in
elaborate detail a complete scheme of constitutional changes which would make it impossible
for the "boss" to control the government. I think I must have been born with a charm against
bourgeois thought, for the good professor never fooled me an instant; I remember I used to
smile at the idea of how quickly the "boss" would brush through his constitutional cobwebs.
The reforms required an elaborate campaign of publicity--and of course long before they could
be put into practice, the politicians would be ready with devices to make them of no effect.

Soon after this, my ethical professor resigned and went to hunting spooks. I don't want to
be unfair to him; I know that he is a determined and courageous man, and it seems possible
that he may really have bagged some spooks. All I wish to point out here is the method he uses
in seeking to persuade the heedless rich to support the spook-hunting industry. The very same
argument as we got from the University of Geneva and the University of Toronto! Says our head
spook-hunter:

There has been no belief that exercised so much power upon the poor as that in a future life.
The politicians, men of the world, have known this so well as to postpone the day of political
judgment by it for many years.

And again:

The Church, having lost all its battles with science, and having abandoned a strenuous intellectual
defense of its fundamental beliefs, has lost its power over the poor and the laboring classes.....
The spiritual ideal of life has gone out of the masses as well as the classes, and nothing
is left but a venture on a struggle with wealth.

And again, more menacingly yet:

The rich will learn in the dangers of a social revolution that the poor will not sacrifice
both wealth and immortality.

What is to be done about this? The question answers itself: Step up, ladies and gentlemen,
and empty your purses into the Psychical Research hat! So that we may accumulate statistics
as to the cost of milk and honey in Jerusalem the Golden!

You read what I had to say about Bootstrap-lifters, and the Wholesale Pickpockets' Association
making use of their incantations. You admired my ability to sling language, but not my taste;
and you certainly did not think that I would back my rhetoric with facts. But what do these
quotations mean, unless they mean what I have said? Are not these three professors men of culture?
Are they not as "spiritual" as any men of learning you can find in our present-day society?

And now stop for a moment and put yourself in the position of the young student of the working-class,
who goes to these books and discovers that truth is not truth, but only a bait for a snare.
Who discovers that professors of ethics, practical or impractical, are not interested in justice
among men, but only in collecting funds for their specialty; that in order to get funds, they
are willing to teach the rich how to paralyze the minds of the poor! Do you wonder that such
young students conclude that bourgeois thinkers do not know what honesty is, but are prostitutes,
retainers and lackeys, to be kicked out of the temple of truth?

Running the Rapids

And now, can you form to yourselves a clear concept of what it means to society that practically
all its moral teaching should be in the hands of men who are incapable of clean, straight thinking?
That all the intellectual prestige of the Church should be lent to the support of vagueness,
futility, and deliberate evasion? Here we are, all of us, caught in the most terrific social
crisis of history; I search for a metaphor to picture our position, and I recall a canoe-trip
in the wilds of Ontario, hundreds of miles down a long swift river. You sit in the bow of the
canoe, your partner in the stern, watching ahead; and there comes a slide of smooth green water,
and you go over it, and into a torrent of foaming white, which seizes you and rushes you along
with the speed of a race-horse. With every sense alert, You watch for the rocks, and when you
see one, you dip your paddle on one side or the other and with a quick motion draw the canoe
clear of the danger. If by any chance you fail to do it, over you go, and your partner with
you, and all your belongings go down-stream, and maybe you are sucked into a whirlpool, and
not seen for several hours afterwards. Precisely like this is the voyage of life, for the whole
of society and for every individual. The paddle which would save us from the rocks is experimental
science; but in most of our canoes we put a man who has no paddle, but a Holy Book; and he
casts up his eyes and murmurs words in ancient Greek and Hebrew, and now and then, when he
sees an especially formidable obstruction--a war, or the gonococcus, or the I. W. W.--he casts
a holy wafer upon the foaming torrent.

And mind you, it isn't as if I could save myself and you could save yourself; we are all in
the same canoe, and we all go overboard together. You, perhaps, have a son who is drafted into
the trenches in winter-time, and drowned in blood and mud, because in Europe the Catholic party
supported militarism, and kept aristocratic criminals in control of states. Or you find yourself
involved in a marital tragedy, and in order to free yourself from unendurable misery, you are
obliged to go to law-courts dominated by the tradition of Paul, the Roman bureaucrat, who despised
women, and regarded marriage as a means of gratifying an unclean animal desire. "It is better
to marry than to burn," he said, with unmatchable brutality; and so of course those who think
him a voice of God can form no conception of the dignity and grace of love, and if you want
sound and wholesome sex-conventions, you will be as apt to find them among the Ashantees or
the Kamchadals as among the followers of the Apostle to the Gentiles.

You go to a so-called "divorce-court," which is dominated by this Christian taboo, and exists
for the purpose of barring you from a second chance at the gratification of your unclean animal
desire. You are not permitted to tell your own story, for that would be "collusion;" you listen
while your intimate friends recite the pitiful and shameful details of your domestic misfortune,
under the cross-questioning of lawyers who have suppressed for the time whatever decent instincts
they may possess, and follow blindly the details of a prescribed procedure, at the cost of
all sincerity, humanity and truth. The next morning you find that the privacy guaranteed you
by law has been taken from you by corrupt court officials, who have sold copies of the testimony
to the newspapers, so that all the intimate details of where you slept and where your wife
slept and what you saw your wife doing have been thrown out to journalistic jackals, who scream
with glee as they rend the carcass of your dead love. And in the end, perhaps, you find that
you have gone through this horror for nothing--the august court with its Roman Catholic judge
throws out your petition, its suspicions having been excited by the fact that when you discovered
your domestic tragedy, you sought to behave like a civilized person, with pity and self-restraint,
instead of like a sultan in Turkey, or a basso in an Italian grand opera.

Birth Control

I assert that the control of our thinking on ethical questions by minds enslaved to tradition
and priestcraft is an unmitigated curse to the race. The armory of science is full of weapons
which might be used to slay the monsters of disease and vice--but these weapons are not allowed
to be employed, sometimes not even to be mentioned. Consider the misery which is piling itself
up in the slams of our great cities---the degenerate, the defective, the insane, who are multiplying
as never before in history. There exists a perfectly harmless and painless method of sterilizing
the hopelessly unfit, so that they can not reproduce their hopeless unfitness; but religion
objects to this operation, and so the law does not make use of this knowledge. There exists
a simple, entirely harmless, and practically costless method of preventing conception, which
would enable us to check the blind and futile fecundity of Nature, and to multiply as gods
instead of as animals. Consider the festering mass of misery in the slums of our great cities;
consider the millions of terrified, poverty-hounded women, bearing one half-nurtured infant
after another, struggling desperately to feed and care for them, and seeing them drop into
the grave as fast as they are born-until finally the mother, worn out with the Sisyphean labor,
gives up and follows her misbegotten offspring. Consider how many women, in their agony and
despair, make use of the methods of the primitive savage, to escape from Nature's curse of
fecundity. Dr. Wm. J. Robinson has estimated that in the United States alone there are a million
abortions every year; and consider that all this hideous mass of suffering--a bloody European
war going on continually, unheeded by any newspaper correspondent--might be avoided by the
use of a simple sterilizing formula, which we are not permitted to give! The Federation of
Catholic Societies have placed a law upon the statute-books of the nation, and of all the states
as well; the whole power of police and courts and jails is at the service of religious bigots,
and a young girl is sent to prison and forcibly fed with a tube through the nose for telling
poverty-ridden, slum-women how to keep from becoming pregnant!

And go among the sleek, cynical men of the world, the judges and district attorneys, the commissioners
of correction and doctors who perpetrated this infamy under a so-called "reform" administration
in New York City--and what do you find? The first thing you find is that they themselves, one
and all, practice birth-control with their wives or their mistresses. The second thing you
find is that the statute-books are crowded with other laws which they make no pretense of enforcing;
for example, the law which forbids the saloons to be open on Sunday--which law they take the
liberty of understanding to mean that the saloons shall not have their front doors open on
Sunday. You will find that they are not at all afraid of the religious taboos; they are afraid
of the religious vote--and even more they are afraid of the campaign contributions of sweat-shop
manufacturers and landlords, who cannot see what would become of prosperity if the women of
the slums were to cease to breed. So once more we discover the wolf in sheep's clothing, the
trader, making use of Tradition-worship; hiding behind the skirts of devout old maiden aunts
and grandmothers, who repeat the instructions which God gave to Adam and Eve, "Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth." As if God were as blind as a Fifth Avenue preacher,
and could see no difference between the Garden of Eden, full of all fruits that grow and all
creatures that run and fly and swim, and a modern East Side tenement-room, with an oil stove
and no windows and no water-closet, and the price of cabbage seven cents a pound!

Sheep

There are more than a hundred thousand Protestant churches in America. They own more than a
billion dollars' worth of property, and in the West and South they dominate the intellectual
life of the country. I do not wish to be unfair in what I say of them. They are far more democratic
than the Catholic Church; they fight valiantly against the liquor traffic and those forms of
graft which are obvious, or directly derived from vice. There are among their clergy many men
who are honestly seeking light, and trying to make their institutions a factor for progress.
But they are caught in the spirit of Lutheran scholasticism, narrow and ignorant, dogmatic
and jealous; and they cannot help it, because they are pledged by their creeds and foundations
to Tradition-worship; they have to believe certain things because their ancestors believed
them, they have to act in certain ways, because of certain facts which existed in the world
three thousand years ago, but which now are known only to historians.

You are familiar with the habit of a herd of sheep to follow the example of their leader; if
this leader leaps over a stick, all the rest will leap when they come to that spot, even though
the stick may have been taken away in the meantime. The scientist explains this seeming-foolishness
by the fact that sheep once lived in high mountains, and fled from their enemies in swiftly
rushing herds; when the leader leaped across an abyss, the others had to leap, without waiting
to see in the dust and confusion. Now there are no mountains and no enemies, but the sheep
still jump. And in exactly the same way the tailor still sews buttons at the back of your dress-coat,
because a couple of hundred years ago all gentlemen wore swords; in the same way our railroad
builders make cars narrow and uncomfortable and liable to overturn, because a hundred years
ago all cars were hauled by mules. In the same way the Orthodox Hebrew will eat no pork, in
spite of the fact that the microscope affords him complete protection against disease; the
orthodox Catholic will not eat meat on Friday, because he thinks Jesus was crucified on that
day; the orthodox Anglican will not marry his deceased wife's sister, because of something
he reads in Leviticus; the orthodox Baptist requires total immersion in a climate quite different
from that of Palestine; the orthodox Methodist refuses to enjoy fresh air and exercise on the
Sabbath.

In ancient Judea, you see, the people lived an open-air life, tending sheep and working the
fields; so it was an excellent thing for them to rest from labor one day of the week, and to
gather in temples to hear the reading of the best literature of their time. But nowadays the
city slave spends his week-days shut up in an office, poring over a ledger, or in a sweat-shop,
chained to a sewing-machine. Obviously, therefore, the thing to do on the seventh day is to
lure him into the open air, and persuade him to run and play. But do we do that, we human sheep?
We write ancient Hebrew laws upon our modern statute-books, and if the city slave goes into
a vacant lot and tries to play base-ball, we send a policeman and take him to jail, and next
morning he is fined five dollars, and probably loses his job.

In the city where I live, a city supposed to be free and enlightened, but in reality heavily
burdened with churches, there are tennis courts built and paid for out of public funds, my
own included; yet I cannot use these tennis courts on Sunday, because of the ancient Hebrew
taboo. My mail is not delivered to me, the swimming pool in the park is closed to me, the library
is closed nearly all day. If I enquire about it, I am told that it is desirable that city employees
should have one day's rest a week; but when I ask why it might not be possible to relay the
employees, so that they might all have one, or even two days' rest a week, and still give the
public their rights on Sunday, there is no answer. But I know the answer, having probed our
politics of hypocrisy. There is a "church vote" at which all politicians tremble; there are
clergymen, humanly jealous when their peculiar graft is threatened, and hoping that if the
law enforces a general boredom, the public may be more disposed to endure the boredom of sermons.

In New York City the theaters are closed on Sunday; but moving pictures having come into being
since the days of Puritan rule, the picture-shows are free to keep open. The law permits "sacred
concerts"--which, under the benevolent sway of Tammany, has come to mean any sort of vaudeville;
so what we have is a free rein to the imbecilities of "Mutt & Jeff" and the obscenities of
Anna Held and Gaby Deslys--while we bar the greatest moralists of our times, such as Ibsen
and Brieux.

I speak with some crossness of this Sabbath taboo, because of an experience which once befell
me. In the second decade of this century of enlightenment and progress, in our free American
democracy, whose constitution proclaims religious toleration, and forbids the establishment
by the state of any form of worship, I was made to serve a sentence of eighteen hours in the
state prison of Delaware for playing a game of tennis on the Sabbath. I was duly arrested upon
a warrant, duly sentenced by a magistrate, duly clad in a prison costume, duly set to work
upon a stone-pile, duly locked up over night in a steel-barred cell full of vermin--in a building
housing some five hundred wretches, black and white, thirty of them serving life-terms under
circumstances which never permitted them a breath of fresh air nor a glimpse of the sunshine
or the sky. They had no exercise court to their prison, and the inmates were not permitted
to speak to one another, but ate their meals in dead silence, and walked back to their cells
with folded arms, and had their only occupation working for a sweat-shop contractor; this on
the outskirts of the capital city of Wilmington, with no less than ninety-one churches! The
writer was informed that he would return to this institution regularly every week unless he
abandoned his godless habit of playing tennis on a private club court on Sunday; he only escaped
the painful punishment by making the discovery that at the Wilmington Country Club it was the
custom of the leading officials of the city and state to play golf every Sunday, and by threatening
to employ detectives and have these mighty ones arrested and sent to their own prison. Which
shows again the importance of understanding the relationship of Superstition and Big Business!

BOOK SIX

The Church of the Quacks

 They may talk as they please about what they call pelf,
  And how one ought never to think of one's self,
  And how pleasures of thought surpass eating and drinking--
My pleasure of thought is the pleasure of thinking
      How pleasant it is to have money, heigh ho!
      How pleasant it is to have money.                           
                                 Clough.

Tabula Rasa

Nature has given us a virgin continent, a clean slate upon which to write what we will. And
what are we writing? What is our intellectual life? I came to the far West, which I had been
taught by novelists and poets to think of as a place of freedom. I came, because I like freedom;
I am staying because I like the climate. I find that what freedom means in the West is the
ability of ignorant and fanatical persons to start some new, fantastical quirk of scriptural
interpretation, to build a new cult around it, and earn a living out of it.

My first contact with that sort of thing was when I went to the Battle Creek Sanitarium to
investigate hydrotherapy, and found myself in a nest of Seventh-day Adventists. Three generations
or so ago some odd character hit upon the discovery that the Christian churches had let the
devil snare them into resting on the first day of the week, whereas the Bible states distinctly
that the Lord "rested on the seventh day". So here is a million dollar establishment, with
a thousand or two patients and employees, and on Friday at sundown the silence of death settles
upon the place, and stays settled until sundown of Saturday, when everything comes suddenly
to life again, and there is a little celebration, like Easter or New Year's, with what I used
to call "sterilized dancing"--the men pairing with men and the women with women.

They are decent and kindly people, and you learn to put up with their eccentricities; it is
really convenient in some ways, because, as not all the city shares their delusions, there
are some stores open every day of the week. But then you discover that the Sanitarium is training
"medical missionaries" to send to Africa, and is teaching these supposed-to-be-scientists that
evolution is a doctrine of the devil, and not proven anyhow!

You get the shrewd little doctor who is running this establishment alone in his office, and
he will smile and admit that of course it is not necessary to take all Bible phrases literally;
but you know how it is--there are different levels of intelligence, and so on. Yes, I know
how it is. You have an institution founded upon a certain dogma, and run by means of that dogma,
and it is hard to change without smashing things. It is especially convenient when servants
and nurses have a religious upbringing, and do not steal the pocket-books of the patients.
People will come from all over the country, and pay high prices to stay in such a sanitarium;
you can make vegetarians of them, which you think more important than teaching abstract notions
about their being descended from monkeys. Also you can manufacture vegetarian foods for them,
and build up an enormous business--so obtaining that Power which is the thing desired of men.

This is but one illustration of a sort of thing of which I could cite a hundred. The city in
which I live is headquarters of another sect, the "Pentecostal Church of the Nazarene"; primitive
Methodists, Bible-worshippers not content with the King James version, but going back to the
Sinaitic MS. They have a "University", located in one of the most beautiful spots that Nature
ever made; an institution with seventy-five students. A couple of years ago I happened to meet
the "president," who was a preacher with grease on the ample expanse of his black broadcloth
waistcoat, and a speech full of the commonest grammatical errors, such as "you was" and "I
seen". The past year witnessed a split, and the founding of a brand new church and "University"--because
one of the preachers insisted upon preaching so much that the students got no chance to study;
also because he sent home a rich man's daughter whose shirt-waists revealed too much of her
fleshly nature.

And there is an even stranger phenomenon in the locality, taking you back to the Libyan desert
and the time of Thais. A lady friend of mine, generously blessed with this world's goods, asks
me have I seen the hermit. "Hermit?" I say, and she replies, "Didn't you know there was a hermit?
He lives on a mountain, in a cave, and never has anything to do with the world. He has no books;
he contemplates spiritually." I picture my friend with her large limousine, a rolling palace
full of ladies, drawing up at the door of this hermit's cave. "He received you?" I ask. "Yes,
he was quite polite." "And what was your impression of him?" "Oh, how he stank!" I answer that
this is the odor of sanctity, and my friend thinks that I am enormously witty; I have to explain
to her that I am not jesting, but that there are definite physiological phenomena incidental
to the ecstatic life.

The Book of Mormon

Or let us take a trip to Salt Lake City, the headquarters of a still stranger cult.

On the morning of the 22nd of September, 1827, the Angel of the Lord delivered unto Joseph
Smith, Jr., an ignorant farmer-youth in a "backwoods" part of New York State, some plates which
had "the appearance of gold". As we know from the scriptures, it is the habit of the Angel
of the Lord to appear in unexpected places and to make miraculous revelations to men in humble
walks of life; so, as devout believers, we hold ourselves in readiness. In this case the plates
were written in "reformed Egyptian"; but the Angel thoughtfully provided Joseph Smith, Jr.,
with Urim and Thummim, two magic stones with which to read the records. They proved to deal
with a mystery which has haunted the minds of Bible students for centuries--the fate of the
"lost ten tribes of Israel", who were now revealed to have been the ancestors of the American
Indians. The Angel told Smith to found a new religion, and gave him prophecies concerning things
in general; so, on the 6th of April, 1830, in the town of Manchester, N. Y., there was formally
launched the "Church of the Latter Day Saints." Smith turned over to his followers his translation
of the miraculous plates, called "The Book of Mormon"; obviously genuine, for it read precisely
like the books which we already know are the revealed word of God. But, on chance that this
might not be sufficient, we were offered in the preface two documents, the "Testimony of Three
Witnesses", and the "Further Testimony of Eight Witnesses". And we give our names unto the
world, to witness that which we have seen, and we lie not, God bearing witness of it.

  Christian Whitmer
  Jacob Whitmer
  Peter Whitmer, Jr.
  John Whitmer
  Hiram Page
  Joseph Smith, Sr.
  Hyrum Smith
  Saml. H. Smith

The subsequent career of the Church of the Latter Day Saints bore out the Angel's prophesies
and proved conclusively its divine origin; it was persecuted as the saints of old were persecuted,
and its followers proceeded to massacre the nearby unbelieving populations, just as the divinely
guided Hebrews had done. Driven from place to place, they built at Nauvoo, Ill., a beautiful
temple, according to plans revealed in a vision, exactly like Solomon. Finally they settled
in Utah, where they have a magnificent marble tabernacle, and some 300,000 followers. The United
States government, not being entirely Biblical, objected to their practice of allowing the
patriarchs of the tribe to have as many wives as they could support; the government confiscated
the church's property, and forced it to conceal the practice of polygamy, as is done by elderly
church members in other parts of the country. Recently the head of the church, who bears the
title of "Prophet, Seer and Revelator", was persuaded to permit an examination of one of its
secret plates, the "Book of Abraham", by egyptologists, who found that it was ordinary Egyptian
hieroglyphics, not "reformed", but containing prayers to the sun-god. But this will of course
make no difference to the devout followers of Joseph--any more than it has made to devout Catholics
and Episcopalians that German scholars have proven that the Bible legends and ritual have come
from the Babylonians, and that the four gospels date from the second and third centuries after
Christ.

Holy Rolling

All over America you will find these weird Bible-cults, some of them pathetic, some of them
dangerous, some of them merely grotesque. Thus, for example, there was John Alexander Dowie,
who founded the "Christian Catholic Church in Zion" and dressed himself up in scarlet and purple
robes with stars on. Through his Zion City Bank and Zion City Realty Company he became enormously
wealthy; he finally announced himself as "Elijah the Restorer." I remember as a boy how he
brought his gospel to New York, and P. T. Barnum with Tom Thumb and the white elephant never
made such a sensation. The ridicule of the metropolis overwhelmed the old prophet, and he died
and passed on his robes and his tabernacle and his bank to his son; straightway, according
to the rule of all religions, the followers fell to quarrelling and splitting up, and suing
one another in the law-courts.

Also there are the "Holy Rollers" and "Holy Jumpers", ghastly sects which cultivate the religious
hysterias, and have spread like a plague among the women of our lonely prairie farms and desert
ranches. The "Holy Rollers", who call themselves the "Apostolic Church", have a meeting place
here in Pasadena, and any Sunday evening at nine o'clock you may see the Spirit of the Lord
taking possession of the worshippers, causing moans and shrieks and convulsions; you may see
a woman holding her hands aloft for seventeen minutes by the watch, making chattering sounds
like an ape. This is called "talking in tongues" and is a sign of the presence of the Holy
Spirit. If you come back at eleven in the evening, you will find the entire congregation, men
and women, prostrate on the floor, or hanging over the benches; and maybe a child moaning in
terror, having a devil cast out.

You may be interested, perhaps, to know how to throw yourself into these convulsions. Here
is a paper called "Trust", which is "published Monthly (D. V.) in the interests of Elim Faith
Work and Bible Training School." Elizabeth Sisson writes on "The Pentecostal Baptism", and
tells the story of her experiences. She "camped on the Word of God," she declares.

I went up to Calgary in Canada, and the leader of the mission told me, "You can go down to
the mission and stay there all day. There is plenty of wood, and you can stay there all night."
I went down, and there was plenty of "let go" in me. I cried, and prayed all I knew, and got
wonderfully loosed.....

Then the Lord said to me, "Now, no more praying!" God told me it was mine. What was there left
for me to pray about. He spoiled my praying and I took up praising. I praised God that He who
worked in the Upper Room was working the same in me. I praised, and I praised, and I praised.
The devil said to me, "That's mechanical." I said, "I'll praise You Lord, and if You want real
praise, You'll have to put the wind in the sails."

That's the way I came through. One morning I was just getting out of bed, "this gibberish,
this jargon" as the enemy likes to call it, began to come. The Lord said, "Let it babble!"
I let. The babble increased, and by night I was up to my neck. I let. I still let. That's all.
Someone else does the work, and it does not tire you.

And here is another paper. "Meat in Due Season: published monthly, or as often as the Lord
leads." The editor quotes the Bible, "Call upon the name of the Lord," and explains that "Call
means call." The word appears to have a special meaning to these pentecostal persons--it means
working yourself into a frenzy of agitation; as the editor puts it, "you must lay hold of the
horns of the altar." He goes on to exhort--the bold face being his:

Pray as if your very life depended upon it! The first few minutes seemingly all the powers
of hell will contend every word, the next few, relief in a measure will come, more liberty
in calling. In a very little while you will be dead to the room, dead to the chair, dead to
everyone around you, dead to all and tremendously alive to your desperate need and emptyness;
this conviction will grow as you increase calling upon Him. It maybe you'll weep, it maybe
you'll perspire, it maybe your clothing will be deranged, it, maybe your throat will get sore.
Never for a moment let your mind rest on the condition of your person. Open your mouth and
God has promised to fill it. Ask persistently until the very floor seems to sink beneath you
and the fountains of the deep, of your heart let loose. Like David, "pour out your soul" like
one would pour water out of a bucket. I have seen hundreds get through right at this point.
When self-thought, reticence, decorum, reserve, propriety and dignity had all been thrown to
the four winds of heaven. Self was then obliterated and consciousness of person gone. Draw
near to God and He will draw near to you saith the scripture, but you must draw near to Him first.

These enthusiasts derive their practices from the Shakers, a sect which originated in England,
but was driven by persecution to the New World. The Shakers call themselves the "United Society
of True Believers in Christ's Second Coming," and were founded by Ann Lee, who, variously termed
herself the "Female Christ", the "Holy Comforter", and the "God-anointed Woman". They might
be termed the suffragettes of religion, for they pray always to "Our Father and Mother, which
are in heaven." They were taught the convenient doctrine that their Founder had "spiritual
illumination", so that any evidence of the senses used against her might deceive. She governed
through terror, holding that by her mental powers she could inflict torment upon any of her
followers. Fortunately she taught absolute celibacy, and so there are now only about a thousand
of her disciples.

Bible Prophecy

This far western country swarms with those fanatics who await the return of Christ, and find
in Bible chronology positive evidence that he is coming on a specified day. Seldom do I give
a lecture on Socialism that some eager old lady does not come up to me and point out how futile
are my hopes, because the Millenium will come before the Revolution. Several times I have come
on an item in the newspapers, telling of a group of people, sometimes whole villages, selling
their goods and going out into the fields to shout and sing and pray, expecting the vision
of the Lord and His Angels in the skies. I have in my hand a pamphlet entitled "Shekineh: The
Glory of God in Israel, Facts Mathematically Foretold, of the Soon Coming of Our Blessed Lord."
It is earnestly, yearningly written, in that spirit of feeble-minded affectionateness which
the Bible-sects seem to encourage:

Now dear reader you see that these problems tell a wonderful story which I know are the Eternal
Truths of God. Jesus is soon coming. I believe that from now on we can say, next week perhaps
our blessed Lord will return. Yet the time may not end till the close of the A. M. year, which
will be March 20th, 1897. But let us take up the sickle of God, etc. Oh, my Christian friends,
live near the Blessed Christ, and gain eternal life through Jesus Our Lord!

In the public library I find another pamphlet, entitled "The Our Race," which proves that the
"lost ten tribes of Israel" are not the American Indians, but the Irish! And here is a publication
of the "Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society," declaring:

The great pyramid in Egypt is a witness to all the events of the ages and of our day. The pyramid's
downward passage under "a Draconis" symbolizes the course of Sin. Its first ascending passage
symbolizes the Jewish Age. Its Grand Gallery symbolizes the Gospel Age. Its upper step symbolizes
the approaching period of tribulation and anarchy, "Judgment" upon Christendom.

It is a Sunday morning, and I sit in the California sunshine revising this manuscript, when
a decorous-looking young man approaches, having a sack over his shoulder. "From the Bible-students,"
he says politely, and hands me a little paper, "The Bible Students' Monthly: an Independent,
Unsectarian Religious Newspaper, Specially devoted to the Forwarding of the Laymen's Home Missionary
Movement for the Glory of God and Good of Humanity." The leading article is headed "The Fall
of Babylon: Ancient Babylon a Type--Mystic Babylon the Antitype: Why Christendom must Suffer--the
Final Outcome." A note explains:

The following article is extracted from Pastor Russell's posthumous volume entitled "The Finished
Mystery," the 7th in the series of his Studies in the Scriptures and published subsequent to
his death. Pastor Russell held the distinction of being the most fearless and powerful writer
of modern times on ecclesiastical subjects. In this posthumous volume, which is called "his
last legacy to the Christians on earth," is found a thorough exposition of every verse in the
entire book of Revelation and also an elucidation of the obscure prophecy of Ezekiel. The book
contains 608 pages, handsomely bound in embossed cloth.

Pastor Russell used to publish a two-column sermon in some hundreds of Sunday newspapers, together
with a presentment of his features--solemn, stiff, white-whiskered, set off with a "choker"
and a black broadcloth coat. There are five million such faces in America, but if you have
an impulse to despair for your country, remember that it produced Mark Twain and Artemus Ward,
as well as Pastor Russell and the Moody and Sankey hymn-book. Pastor Russell does not approve
of the Methodists, and he quotes twelve verses of Revelation, line by line and phrase by phrase,
showing how the evil course and downfall of the Wesleyan system were divinely foretold. Thus:

"But that they should be tormented five months."--In symbolic time, 150 years--5 X 30 = 150.
(Ezek. 4:6.) Wesley became the first Methodist in 1728. (Rev. 9:1.) When the Methodist denomination,
with all the others, was cast off from favor in 1878 (Rev. 3:14) its powers to torment men
by preaching what Presbyterians describe as "Conscious misery, eternal in duration" came to
an end legally, and to a large extent actually--Rev. 9:10.

P. S. A few months pass, and while this book is going to press, "The Finished Mystery" is suppressed
by the government and several score "Bible Students" are landed in jail for sedition.

Koreshanity

Such are the beliefs built on the Bible. But there are other ancient writings with strange
nomenclature and ritual and symbolism, calculated to impress the unlettered; also our prophets
have imaginations of their own, and can invent nomenclature and ritual and symbolism never
seen in heaven nor on earth before. Thus there is Dr. Newo Newi New, who called himself "Archbishop
of the Newthot Church," and gathered about him a harem of devoted females in San Francisco,
and was landed in jail for using the mails to defraud. Or there is "Oahspe, the Cosmic Bible,"
a work of brand-new revelation with a brand-new view of the universe and all things therein:

The reader soon discovers that he must radically revise not only his ideas of celestial Cosmogony,
but the order and significance of names and titles commonly applied to the Transcendental Brethren.
The great provinces of Etheria are presided over by chiefs, chosen for their superior development
in wisdom and love. For our solar system to cross one of these provinces requires about 3,000
years, and between them are belts of high Etherian light which take several years to pass over.
The passage of each province is a cycle of earthly history, and the crossings are called Dawns
of Dan.

And here is Koreshanity, a revelation vouchsafed by the Lord to Dr. C. R. Teed of Chicago in
the year 1889. This new seer took the name of Koresh, which is Hebrew for Cyrus, "the Shepherd
from Joseph, the Stone of Israel, the Sun-Man; the illuminating center of the Son of man",
and went out on the streets of the city to preach that the earth is a hollow sphere with the
stars inside. The street urchins of the pork-packing metropolis threw stones at him, and the
irreverent newspapers took up his adventures, with the result that followers gathered, and
now there is a flourishing colony in Florida, with a dignified magazine called "The Flaming
Sword", and a collection of propaganda volumes: "The Cellular Cosmogony, an Exposition of Koreshan
Universology and the New Geodesy"; "The Immortal Manhood, the Laws and Processes of its Attainment
in the Flesh"; "The Great Red Dragon, by Lord Chester"; "The Coming of the Shepherd from Joseph,
The Standing of the Great Ensign, by Koresh." The "Religio-science" of this Chicago revelator
is based, first upon some precise measurements of the earth which prove that its surface is
concave; and second upon some philological discoveries very much resembling puns. Thus the
"cross of Christ" is explained in a sense of the word more common among horse-breeders than
among theologians:

The highest characteristic of the alchemical law is the cross of Christ with sensual man. The
cross means that the Lord God, in order to perpetuate his own being, descends into the race
of sensuality.

And again, when someone asks about meteors:

"The word Heaven means things heaved up, that is, heaved up from their material basis, the
earth; thus, the meteors which fall to the earth are composed of metallic, mineral, and geological
substances, being materialized or actually created in the atmosphere by an alchemico-organic
process from zones or belts periodically open, which precipitate their contents in the form
or shape of meteors."

And perhaps I ought also to quote the "Indicia of Human Progress", by "Berthaldine, Matrona".
I don't know what a "Matrona" is--unless it is a female matron. This female matron tells me
that now is the "Time of Restitution", and explains that "the prolification of the human race
has reached a fruition of the adultery of the truth and good of the Lord with the fallacies
and evils of the mortal hells"..... We have come, it seems, to the "age of Pisces", which is
"one of the greatest radical prolification"; and what we now need is the "power of polarization",
so that we may join the "White Horse Army of the Most High", which is the organization of the
"Aquarian age", proclaimed by Koresh on January 15th, 1891.

Mazdaznan

And here is another and even more startling revelation from Chicago, given to a seer by the
name of Dr. Otoman Prince of Adusht Ha'nish, prophet of the Sun God, Prince of Peace, Manthra
Magi of Temple El Katman, Kalantar of Zoroastrian Breathing and Envoy of Mazdaznan living,
Viceroy-Elect and International Head of Master-Thot. If you had happened to live near the town
of Mendota, Illinois, and had known the German grocer-boy named Otto Hanisch, you might at
first have trouble in recognizing him through this transmogrification. I have traced his career
in the files of the Chicago newspapers, and find him herding sheep, setting type, preaching
prestidigitation, mesmerism, and fake spiritualism, joining the Mormon Church, then the "Christian
Catholic Church in Zion", and then the cult of Brighouse, who claimed to be Christ returned.
Finally he sets himself up in Chicago as a Persian Magi, teaching Yogi breathing exercises
and occult sex-lore to the elegant society ladies of the pork-packing metropolis. The Sun God,
worshipped for two score centuries in India, Egypt, Greece and Rome, has a new shrine on Lake
Park Avenue, and the prophet gives tea-parties at which his disciples are fed on lilac-blossoms--"the
white and pinkish for males, the blue-tinted for females". He wears a long flowing robe of
pale grey cashmere, faced with white, and flexible white kid shoes, and he sells his lady adorers
a book called "Inner Studies", price five dollars per volume, with information on such subjects as:

The Immaculate Conception and its Repetition; The Secrets of Lovers Unveiled; Our Ideals and
Soul Mates; Magnetic Attraction and Electric Mating.

A Grand Jury intervenes, and the Prophet goes to jail for six months; but that does not harm
his cult, which now has a temple in Chicago, presided over by a lady called Kalantress and
Evangelist; also a "Northern Stronghold" in Montreal, an "Embassy" in London, an "International
Aryana" in Switzerland, and "Centers" all over America. At the moment of going to press, the
prophet himself is in flight, pursued by a warrant charging him with improper conduct with
a number of young boys in a Los Angeles hotel.

I have dipped into Ha'nish's revelations, which are a farrago of every kind of ancient mysticism--paper
and binding from the Bible, illustrations from the Egyptian, names from the Zoroastrian, health
rules from the Hindoos, laws from the Confucians--price ten dollars per volume. Would you like
to discover your seventeen senses, to develop them according to the GaLlama principle, and
to share the "expansion of the magnetic circles"? Here is the way to do it:

Inhale through nostrils for four seconds, and upon one exhalation, speak slowly:

Open, O thou world-sustaining Sun, the entrance unto Truth hidden by the vase of dazzling light.

Again inhale for four seconds, and breathe out the following sentence upon one exhalation as
before:

Soften the radiation of Thy Illuminating Splendor, that I may behold Thy True Being.

I have a clipping from a Los Angeles newspaper telling of the prophet's arriving there. He
takes the front page with the captivating headline: "Women Didn't Think Till They Put On Corsets".
The interview tells about his mysteriousness, his aloofness, his bird-like-diet, and his personal
beauty. "Despite his seventy-three years, Ha'nish evidences no sign of age. His keen blue eyes
showed no sign of wavering. There were no wrinkles on his face, and his walk was that of a
man of forty." The humor of this becomes apparent when we mention that at Ha'nish's trial,
three or four years ago, he was proven to be thirty-five years old!

Being thus warned as to the accuracy of American journalism, we shall not be taken in by the
repeated statements that the Mazdaznan prophet is a millionaire. But there is no doubt that
he is wealthy; and as all Americans wish to be wealthy, I will quote his formula of prosperity,
his method of accomplishing what might be called the Individual Revolution:

When hungry and you do not know where to get your next piece of bread, do not despair. Thy
Father, all-loving, has provided you with everything that will meet all cases of emergency.
Place your teeth tightly together, with tongue pressing against the lower teeth and lips parted.
Breathe in, close lips immediately, exhaling through the nostrils. Breathe again; if saliva
forms in your mouth, hold your breath so you can swallow it first before you exhale. You thus
take out of the air the metal-substance contained therein; you can even taste the iron which
you convert into substance required for making the blood. Should you feel that, although you
have sufficient iron in the blood, there is a lack of copper and zinc and silver, place upper
teeth over lower, keep lower lip tightly to lower teeth, now breathe and you can even taste
the metals named. Then should you feel you need more gold element for your brain functions,
place your back teeth together just as if you were to grind the back teeth, taking short breaths
only. You will then learn to know that there is gold and silver all around us. That our bodies
are filled with quite a quantity of gold.

Black Magic

What all this means is that we have a continent, with a hundred million half-educated people,
materially prosperous, but spiritually starving; so any man who possesses personality, who
looks in any way strange and impressive, or has hunted up old books in a library, and can pronounce
mysterious words in a thrilling voice--such a man can find followers. Anybody can do it with
any doctrine, from anywhere, Persia or Patagonia, Pekin or Pompei. I would be willing to wager
that if I cared to come out and announce that I had had a visit from God last night, and to
devote such literary and emotional power as I possess to communicating a new revelation, I
could have a temple, a university, and a million dollars within five years at the outside.
And if at the end of five years I were to announce that I had played a joke on the world, some
one of my followers would convince the faithful that I had been an agent of God without knowing
it, and that the leadership had now been turned over to him.

I would not be understood as believing that all our cults are undiluted fakery, for that would
be doing injustice to some earnest people. There are, in this country, many followers of the
Persian reformer, Abbas Effendi, who call themselves Babists, and who have what I am inclined
to think is the purest and most dignified religion in existence. There was a man named Jacob
Beilhardt, who founded a cult in Illinois with the painful name of "Spirit Fruit Colony", who
nevertheless was a man of spiritual insight, a true mystic; he was honest, and so he failed,
and died of a broken heart. Also there are the Christian Scientists and the Theosophists, so
exasperating that one would like to throw them onto the rubbish-heap, who yet compel us to
sift over their mountains of chaff for the grains of truth which will bear fruit in future.

While we western races have been exploring the natural world and perfecting the mechanical
arts, the Hindoo students have been exploring the subconscious and its strange powers. What
Myers and Lodge and Janet and Charcot and Freud and Jung are telling us today they had hints
of a long time ago; and doubtless they have hints of other things, upon which our scientists
have not yet come. I have friends, perfectly sane and competent people, who tell me that they
can see auras, and use this ability as a means of judging character. Shall I say that there
are no auras, simply because I do not happen to have this gift of seeing them? In the same
way, having read Gurney's "Phantasms of the Living," I am not ready to ridicule the claim of
the Yogi adepts, that they are able to project some kind of astral body, and to communicate
with one another from distant places. But granting such occult powers in a world of economic
strife, what follows? Simply new floods of charlatanism, elaborate and complicated systems
of ritual and metaphysic for the deluding and plundering of the credulous.

I have seen the thing working itself out in one case known to me. A young man had a gift of
mental healing; I know, because I saw it work; but it did not always work, and that was annoying.
He was penniless and had a taste for power, and to eke out his erratic endowment he got himself
books of Eastern lore, and day by day as I watched him I could see him becoming more and more
impressive, mysterious and forbidding. Today he is a full-fledged wonder-worker, with the language
of a dozen mystic cults at his tongue's end, and the reverent regard of many wealthy ladies.
I have never tried to break through his guard, but I feel certain that he is a deliberate charlatan.

This is an economic process, automatic and irresistible. Just as the manufacturer of honest
foods is driven out by the adulterator, so the worker of miracles drives out the sincere investigator.
As a result we have here in America a plague of Eastern cults, with "swamis" using soft yellow
robes and soft brown eyes to win the souls of idle society ladies. These teachers of ancient
Hindoo lore despise us as a race of barbarians; but they stay--whether because of love of man
or woman, I do not pretend to say.

There are the Theosophists of many brands, with schools and institutes and temples and colonies,
and a doctrine as complex and detailed and fantastic as that of the Roman Catholics. I have
already referred to the writings of Madame Blavatsky, a runaway Russian army officer's daughter,
whose career reads like a tale out of the Arabian Nights. And there is Annie Besant, who was
once an ardent worker in the Social-democratic Federation; H. M. Hyndman tells of his dismay
when she went to India and walked in a procession between two white bulls! Here in California
is Madame Tingley, with a colony and a host of followers in a miniature paradise. Men work
at money-lending or manufacturing sporting-goods, and when they get old and tired they make
the thrilling discovery that they have souls; the theosophists cultivate these souls and they
leave their money to the soul-cause, and there are lawsuits and exposes in the newspapers.
For, you see, there is ferocious rivalry in the game of cultivating millionaire souls; there
are slanders and feuds, just as in soulless affairs. "Don't have anything to do with Madame
Tingley," whispers a Theosophist lady to my wife; and when my wife in all innocence inquires,
"Why not?" the awe-stricken answer comes, "She practices black magic!"

Let me add that I do not say that she practices black magic. I do not believe that she could
practice it, even if she wanted to--I do not believe in black magic.

Mental Malpractice

This is the other side of the fair shield of religious faith. Why, if there be a power which
loves and can be persuaded to aid us, may there not also be a power which hates, and can be
persuaded to destroy? No religion has ever been able to answer this, and therefore none has
ever been able to escape from devil-terrors. Even Jesus was pursued by Satan, and the Holy
Catholic Church has its ceremonies for the exorcising of demons, and a most frightful formula
for cursing. And here are our friends the Christian Scientists, proclaiming the unreality of
all evil, their ability to banish disease by convincing themselves that they are perfect in
God--yet tormented by a squalid phobia called "Mental Malpractice", or "Malicious Animal Magnetism".

Christian Science is the most characteristic of American religious contributions. Just as Billy
Sunday is the price we pay for failing to educate our base-ball players, so Mary Baker Glover
Patterson Eddy is the price we pay for failing to educate our farmer's daughters.

That she had a power to cure disease I do not doubt, because I have a little of it myself.
At first my opinion was that her "Science" made its way by curing the imaginary ailments of
the idle rich. If a person has nothing to do but think that he is sick, you can work easy miracles
by persuading him to think that he is well; and if he has nothing to do but think that he is
well, he will help you to build marble churches and maintain propaganda societies. But recently
I have experimented with mental healing--enough to satisfy myself that the subconscious mind
which controls our physical functions can be powerfully influenced by the will.

I told the story of some of these experiments in Hearst's Magazine for April, 1914. Suffice
it here to say that if you will lay your hands upon a sick person, forming a vivid mental picture
of the bodily changes you desire, and concentrating the power of your will upon them, you may
be surprised by the results, especially if you possess anything in the way of psychic gifts.
You do not have to adopt any theories, you do not have to do it in the name of any divinity,
ancient or modern; the only bearing of such ideas is that they serve to persuade people to
make the experiment, and to make it with persistence and intensity. So it has come about that
"miracles" of healing are associated with "faith"; and so it comes about that scientists are
apt to flout the subject. But read of the work of Janet and Charcot and their followers at
the Salpetriere; they have proven that all kinds of seeming-organic ailments may be entirely
hysterical in nature, and may be cured by the simplest form of suggestion. Understanding this,
you may find it more easy to credit the fact that cripples do sometimes throw away their crutches
in the grotto of Lourdes. For my part, I can believe that Jesus performed all the miracles
of healing attributed to him --including the raising up of people pronounced to be dead by
the ignorance of that time. I am convinced that in the new science of psycho-analysis we have
a universe as vast as the universe of the atom or of the stars.

The Christian Scientists have got hold of this power; they have mixed it up with metaphysic
and divinity, and built some four or five hundred churches, and printed the Mother Church alone
knows how many million pamphlets and books. I once invested three of my hard-earned dollars
for a copy of the Eddy Bible, and let myself be stunned and blinded by the flapping of metaphysical
wings. It is unadulterated moonshine--as the Platonist and Berkeleyan and Hegelian and other
orthodox collegiate metaphysical magi can prove to you in one minute. What interests me about
the phenomenon is not the slinging of tremendous words, but the strictly Yankee use which is
made of them. There is no nonsense about saving your soul in Christian Science; what it is
for is to remove your wen, to nail down your floating kidney, and to enable you to hustle and
make money. We saw in our politics the growth of a Party of the Full Dinner-Pail; contemporaneous
therewith, and corresponding thereto, we see in our religious life the development of a Church
of the Full Pocket-Book.

It is a strict religion--strictly cash. The heads of the cult do not issue cheap editions of
"Science and Health, With Key to the Scriptures", to relieve the suffering of the proletariat;
no--the work is copyrighted, in all its varying and contradictory editions, and the price is
from three to seven-fifty, according to binding. Treatments cost from three dollars to ten,
whether you come and get them or take them over the telephone. And we have no nonsense about
charity, we don't worry about the poor who fester in our city slums; because poverty is a product
of Mortal Mind, and we offer to all men a way to get rich right off the bat. You may come to
our marble churches and hear people testify how through the power of Divine Mind they were
enabled to anticipate a rise in the stock-market. If you don't avail yourself of the opportunity,
the fault is yours, and yours also the punishment.

As to the management of the Church, the Roman Catholic hierarchy is a Bolshevik democracy in
comparison. The Church is controlled by an absolutely irresponsible self-perpetuating body
of five men, who alone dictate its policy. I have in my hand a letter from a Christian Science
healer who was listed as an "authorized practitioner", and who withdrew from the Church because
of its attitude on public questions. He sends me a copy of his correspondence with the editors
of the "Christian Science Monitor", containing a detailed analysis of the position of that
paper on such issues as the Ballinger land-frauds. He writes:

I am thoroughly convinced now that the policy of the Church is consciously plutocratic. The
only recommendation I have heard of the latest appointee to the Board of Directors is that
he is one of the richest men in the movement.

After the Titanic disaster, Senator La Follette brought in a carefully drawn bill to compel
steamship companies to provide life-boats and trained crews. The "Christian Science Monitor"
opposed this bill; and when my correspondent cited the fact, he brought out a quaint bit of
metaphysical logic, as follows:

One would prefer to travel on a vessel without a single boat, rather than on some other vessels
which were loaded down with life-boats, where the government of Mind was not understood!

Science and Wealth

The truth is that the brand of Mammon was on our Yankee religion from the day of its birth.
In the first edition of her new Bible "Mother" Eddy dropped the hint to her readers: "Men of
business have said this science was of great advantage from a secular point of view." And in
her advertisements she threw aside all pretense, declaring that her work "Affords an opportunity
to acquire a profession by which one can accumulate a fortune." When her pupils did accumulate,
she boasted of their success; nor did she neglect her own accumulating.

It has been a dozen years since I looked into this cult; in order to be sure that it has not
been purified in the interim, I proceed to a street corner in my home city, where is a stand
with a sign: "Christian Science Literature." I take four sample copies of a magazine, the "Christian
Science Sentinel", published by the Mother Church in Boston, and turn to the "Testimonials
of Healing". In the issue of August 11, 1917, Mary C. Richards of St. Margarets-on-Thames,
England, testifies: "Through a number of circumstances unnecessary to relate, but proving conclusively
that the result came not from man but from God, employment was found." In the issue of December
2, 1916, Frances Tuttle of Jersey City, N. J., testifies how her sister was successfully treated
for unemployment by a scientist practitioner. "Every condition was beautifully met." In the
same issue Fred D. Miller of Los Angeles, Cal., testifies: "Soon after this wonderful truth
came to me, Divine Love led me to a new position with a responsible firm. The work was new
to me, but I have given entire satisfaction, and my salary has been advanced twice in less
than a year." In the issue of January 27, 1917, Eliza Fryant of Agricola, Miss., testifies
how she cured her little dog of snake-bite and removed two painful corns from her own foot.
In the issue of August 4, 1917, Marcia E. Gaier, of Everett, Wash., testifies how it suddenly
occurred to her that because God is All, she would drop her planning and outlining in regard
to real estate properties, "upon which for nine months all available material methods were
tried to no effect." The result was a triumph of "Principle".

While working in the yard one morning and gratefully communing with God, the only power, I
suddenly felt that I should stop working and prepare for visitors on their way to look at the
property. I obeyed this very distinct command, and in about an hour I greeted two people who
had searched almost the entire city for just what we had to offer. They had been directed to
our place by what to material sense would seem an accident, but we know it was the divine law
of harmony in its universal operation.

After this no one will wonder that John M. Tutt, in a Christian Science lecture at Kansas City,
Mo., should proclaim:

My friends, do you know that since the world began Christian Science is the only system which
has intelligently related religion to business? Christian Science shows that since all ideas
belong to Mind, God, therefore all real business belongs to Him.

As I said, these people have the new-old power of mental healing, They blunder along with it
blindly, absurdly, sometimes with tragic consequences; but meantime the rank and file of the
pill-doctors know nothing about this power, and regard it with contempt mingled with fear;
so of course the hosts of sufferers whom the pill-doctors cannot help flock to the healers
of the "Church of Christ, Scientist". According to the custom of those who are healed by "faith",
they swallow line, hook, and sinker, creed, ritual, metaphysic and divinity. So we see in twentieth-century
America precisely what we saw in B. C. twentieth-century Assyria--a host of worshippers, giving
their worldly goods without stint, and a priesthood, made partly of fanatics and partly of
charlatans, conducting a vast enterprise of graft, and harvesting that thing desired of all
men, power over the lives and destinies of others.

And of course among themselves they quarrel; they murder one another's Mortal Minds, they drive
one another out, they snarl over the spoils like a pack of hungry animals. Listen to the Mother,
denouncing one of her students--a perfectly amiable and harmless youth whose only offense was
that he had gone his own way and was healing the sick for the benefit of his own pocket-book:

Behold! thou criminal mental marauder, that would blot out the sunshine of earth, that would
sever friends, destroy virtue, put out Truth, and murder in secret the innocent, befouling
thy track with the trophies of thy guilt--I say, Behold the "cloud" no bigger than a man's
hand already rising on the horizon of Truth, to pour down upon thy guilty head the hailstones
of doom.

And again:

The Nero of today, regaling himself through a mental method with the torture of individuals,
is repeating history, and will fall upon his own sword, and it shall pierce him through. Let
him remember this when, in the dark recesses of thought, he is robbing, committing adultery
and killing. When he is attempting to turn friend away from friend, ruthlessly stabbing the
quivering heart; when he is clipping the thread of life and giving to the grave youth and its
rainbow hues; when he is turning back the reviving sufferer to his bed of pain, clouding his
first morning after years of night; and the Nemesis of that hour shall point to the tyrant's
fate, who falls at length upon the sword of justice.

New Nonsense

In a certain city of America is a large building given up entirely to the whims of pretty ladies.
Its floors are not floors but "Promenades", and have walls of glass, behind which, as you stroll,
you see bonnets from Paris and opera cloaks from London, furs from Alaska and blankets from
Arizona, diamonds from South Africa and beads from the Philippines, grapes from Spain and cherries
from Japan, fortune-tellers from Arabia and dancing-masters from Petrograd and "naturopaths"
from Vienna. There are seventy-three shops, by actual count, containing everything that could
be imagined or desired by a pretty lady, whether for her body, or for that vague stream of
emotion she calls her "soul". One of the seventy-three shops is a "Metaphysical Library", having
broad windows, and walls in pastel tints, and pretty vases with pink flowers, and pretty gray
wicker chairs in which the reader will please to be seated, while we probe the mysteries of
an activity widely spread throughout America, called "New Thought."

We begin with a shelf of magazines having mystical titles: Azoth; Master Mind; Aletheian; Words
of Power; Qabalah; Comforter; Adept; Nautilus; True Word; Astrological Bulletin; Unity; Uplift;
Now. And then come shelves of pretty pamphlets, alluring to the eye and the purse; also shelves
of imposing-looking volumes containing the lore and magic of a score of races and two score
of centuries--together with the very newest manifestations of Yankee hustle and graft.

As in the case of Christian Science, these New Thoughters have a fundamental truth, which I
would by no means wish to depreciate. It is a fact that the mysterious Source of our being
is infinite, and that we are only at the beginning of our thinking about it. It is a fact that
by appeal to it we can perform seeming miracles of mental and moral regeneration; we can stimulate
the flow of nervous energy and of the blood, thus furthering the processes of bodily healing.
But the fact that God is Infinite and Omnipotent does not bar the fact that He has certain
ways of working, which He does not vary; and that it is our business to explore and understand
these ways, instead of setting our fancies to work imagining other ways more agreeable to our
sentimentality.

Thus, for example, if we want bread, it is God's decree that we shall plant wheat and harvest
it, and grind and bake and distribute it. Under conditions prevailing at the moment, it appears
to be His decree that we shall store the wheat in elevators, and ship it in freight cars, and
buy it through a grain exchange, with capital borrowed from a national bank; in other words,
that our daily bread shall be the plaything of exploiters and speculators, until such a time
as we have the intelligence to form an effective political party and establish Industrial Democracy.
But when you come to study the ways of God in the literature of the New Thought, do you find
anything about the Millers' Trust and the Bakers' Trust and how to expropriate these agencies
of starvation? You do not!

What you find is Bootstrap-lifting; you find gentlemen and lady practitioners shutting their
eyes and lifting their hands and pronouncing Incantations in awe-inspiring voices--or in Capital
Letters and LARGE TYPE: "God is infinite, God is All-Loving, GOD WILL PROVIDE. Bread is coming
to you! Bread is coming to you!! BREAD IS COMING TO YOU!!!"

You think this is exaggeration? If so, it is because you have never entered the building of
the pretty ladies, and sat in the gray wicker chairs of the metaphysical library. One of the
highest high-priestesses of the cults of New Nonsense is a lady named Elizabeth Towne, editor
of "The Nautilus"; and Priestess Elizabeth tells you:

I believe the idea that money wants you will help you to the right mental condition. Be a pot
of honey and let it come.

I look over this Priestess' magazine, and find it full of testimonials and advertisements for
the conjuring of prosperity. "Are you in the success sphere?" asks one exhorter; the next tells
you "How to enter the silence. How to manifest what you desire. The secret of advancement."
Another tells: "How a Failure at Sixty Won Sudden Success; From Poverty to $40,000 a year--a
Lesson for Old and Young Alike." The lesson, it appears, is to pay $3.00 for a book called
"Power of Will." And here is another book:

Master Key: Which can unlock the Secret Chamber of Success, can throw wide the doors which
seem to bar men from the Treasure House of Nature, and bids those enter and partake who are
Wise enough to Understand and broad enough to Weigh the Evidence, firm enough to Follow their
Own Judgment and Strong enough to Make the Sacrifice Exacted.

"Dollars Want Me"

I turn to the shelves of pamphlets. Here is a pretty one called "All Sufficiency in All Things,"
published by the "Unity School of Christianity", in Kansas City; it explains that God is God,
not merely of the Soul, but also of the Kansas City stockyards.

This divine Substance is ever abiding within us, and stands ready to manifest itself in whatever
form you and I need or wish, just as it did in Elisha's time. It is the same yesterday, today
and forever. Abundant Supply by the manifestation of the Father within us, from within outward,
is as much a legitimate outcome of the Christ life or spiritual understanding as is bodily
healing..... "Know that I am God--all of God, Good, all of Good. I am Life. I am Health. I
am Supply. I am the Substance."

And here is W. W. Atkinson of Chicago, author of a work called "Mind Power". Would you like
to be an Impressive Personality? Mr. Atkinson will tell you exactly how to do it; he will give
you the secret of the Magnetic Handclasp, of the Intense, Straight-in-the-eye Look; he will
tell you what to say, he will write out for you Incantations which you may pronounce to yourself,
to convince yourself that you have Power, that the INDWELLING PRESENCE with all its MIGHT is
yours. Mr. Atkinson rebukes mildly the tendency of some of his fellow Bootstrap-lifters to
employ these arts for money-making; but you notice that his magazine, "Advanced Thought", does
not decline the advertisements of such too-practical practitioners.

Next comes a gentleman with the musical name of Wallace Wattles, who tells in one pamphlet
"How to Be a Genius", and in another pamphlet "How to Get What you Want". The thing for you
to do is--

Saturate your mentality through and through with the knowledge that YOU CAN DO WHAT YOU WANT
TO DO..... Look upon the peanut-stand merely as the beginning of the department store, and
make it grow; you can.

And Mr. Wattles wattles on, in an ecstasy of acquisitiveness:

Hold this consciousness and say with deep, earnest feeling: I CAN succeed! All that is possible
to any one is possible to me. I AM success. I do succeed, for I am full of the Power of Success.

Imagine, if you please, a poor devil chained in the treadmill of the capitalist system--a "soda-jerker",
a "counter-jumper", a book-keeper for the Steel Trust. His chances of rising in life are one
in ten thousand; but he comes to the Metaphysical Library, and pays the price of his dinner
for a pamphlet by Henry Harrison Brown, who was first a Unitarian clergyman, and then an extra-high
Bootstrap-lifter in San Francisco, an Honorary Vice-President of the International New Nonsense
Alliance. Mr. Brown will tell our soda-jerker or counter-jumper exactly how to elevate himself
by mental machinery. All calculations of probabilities are delusions of the senses; if you
have faith, you can move, not merely mountains, but Riker-Hegeman's, Macy's, or the Steel Trust.
"How to Promote Yourself " is the title of one of Mr. Brown's pamphlets, in which he explains
that--

Your wants are impressed on the Divine Mind only by your faith. A doubt cuts the connection.

A second pamphlet, which we are told is now in its thirtieth edition, bears the thrilling title
of "Dollars Want Me!" In it Mr. Brown lays claim to being a pioneer:

I believe that this little monograph is the first utterance of the thought that each individual
has the ability so to radiate his mental forces that he can cause the Dollars to feel him,
love him, seek him, and thus draw at will all things needed for his unfoldment from the universal
supply.

"What are Dollars?" asks our author; and answers:

Dollars are manifestations of the One Infinite Substance as you are, but, unlike you, they
are not Self-Conscious. They have no power till you give them power. Make them feel this through
your thought-vibrations as you feel the importance of your work. They will then come to you
to be used.

"What is Poverty?" Mr. Brown asks, and answers himself:

Poverty is a mental condition. It can be cured only by the Affirmation of Power to cure: I
am a part of the One, and, in the One, I possess all! Affirm this and patiently wait for the
manifestation. You have sown the thought seed.

And our author goes on to hand out packages of these thought-seeds--"Affirmations" as they
are called, in the jargon of the New Conjuring:

 I desire a deep consciousness of financial freedom.  I desire
that the flow of prosperity become equalized.  I desire a greater
consciousness of my power to attract the dollar.  The Indwelling
Power cares for my purse.  I own whatever I desire.  I can afford
to use dollars for my happiness.  I always have a good bank
account. I actually see it.  My one idea of the law is to use,
use, USE.

Spiritual Financiering

If the symbolism of the Episcopal Church is of the palace, and that of the non-conformist sects
of the counting-house, that of the International New Nonsense Alliance is of Wall Street and
the "ticker". "What is your rating in the Spiritual Bradstreet?" asks William Morris Nichols
in the publication of the " 'Now' Folk", San Francisco:

Is it low or high? Is your credit with the Bank of the Universe good or poor? If you draw a
spiritual draft are you sure of its being honored?

If you can answer that last question affirmatively, you are on the road to become a Master
in Spiritual Financiering.

Have you an account with the First (and only) Bank of Spirit? If not, then you should at once
open one therewith. For no one can afford to keep less than a large deposit of spiritual funds
with that Bank.

And how do you proceed to open your account? It is very simple:

Intend the mind in the direction indicated by your desire. Seek for the Light and Guidance
by which you may open up the way for your Spiritual Substance, which governs material supply,
to reach you and make you as rich as you ought to be, in freedom and happiness. All this you
can, and when in earnest, will do.

I turn over the advertisements of this publication of the " 'Now' Folk". One offers "The Business
Side of New Thought." Another offers "The Books Without an If", with your money back IF you
are not satisfied! Another offers land in Bolivia for two dollars an acre. Another quotes Shakespeare:
" 'Tis the mind that makes the body rich." Another offers two copies of the "Phrenological
Era" for ten cents.

There is apparently no delusion of any age or clime which cannot find dupes among the readers
of this New Nonsense. One notice commands:

Stop! A Revelation! A Book has been written entitled "Strands of Gold" or "From Darkness into
Light!"

Another announces:

The Most Wonderful Book of the Ages: The Acquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Transcribed
from the Book of God's Remembrance, the Akashic Records.

And here is an advertisement published in Mr. Atkinson's paper:

Numerology: the Universal Adjuster! Do you know: What you appear to be to others? What you
really are? What you want to be? What would overcome your present and future difficulties?
Write to X, Philosopher. You will receive full particulars of his personal work which is dedicated
to your service. No problem is too big or too small for Numerology. Understanding awaits you.

And looking in the body of the magazine, you find this Philosopher imparting some of this Understanding.
Would you like, for example, to understand why America entered the War? Nothing easier. The
vowels of the Words United States of America are uieaeoaeia, which are numbered 2951561591,
which added make 45, or 4 plus 5 equals 9. You might not at first see what that has to do with
the War--until the Philosopher points out that "9 in the number of completion, indicating the
end of a cosmic cycle." That, of course, explains everything.

And here is a work on what you perhaps thought to be a dead science, Astrology. It is called
"Lucky Hours for Everybody: A True System of Planetary Hours by Prof. John B. Early. Price
One Dollar." It teaches you things like this:

Saturn's negative hours are especially good for all matters relating to gold-mining..... The
Sun negative rules the emerald, the musical note D sharp, and the number four. The lunar hours
are a good time to deal in public commodities, and to hire servants of both sexes.....

A recent lady visitor informed me that she had made several vain attempts to transact important
business in the hours ruled by Jupiter, usually held to be fortunate, while she was nearly
always fortunate in what she began in the hours ruled by Saturn. Upon investigation I found
her name was ruled by the Sun negative, and that she had Capricorn with Saturn therein as her
ascendant at birth, which explains.

And finally, here is a London "scientist", reported in the "Weekly Unity" of Kansas City, who
proves his mental power over two-horse power oil engines which fail to act. "Going a little
apart, he came back in a few minutes and said: 'The engine is all right now and will work satisfactorily.'
and without any further difficulty it did." We are told how Dr. Rawson gave a demonstration
of his method to a newspaper reporter the other day. Fixing his gaze as though looking into
space, he apparently became absorbed in deep contemplation and said aloud: "There is no danger;
man is surrounded by divine love; there is no matter; all is spirit and manifestation of spirit."

You might at first find difficulty in believing what can be accomplished by "demonstrations"
such as this; not merely are two-horse power oil engines made to work, but the whole gigantic
machine of Prussian militarism is prevented from working. You may recall how Arthur Machen's
magazine story of the Angels of Mons was taken up and made into a Catholic legend over-night;
now here is a New-Nonsense legend, complete and perfect, going the rounds of our Nonsense magazines:

London, Dec. 14.--Shell-proof and bullet-proof soldiers have been discovered on the European
battle-fronts. Heroes with "charmed lives" are being made every day, according to Frederick
L. Rawson, a London scientist, who insists he has found the miraculous way by which they are
developed. He calls it "audible treatment". "Practical utilization of the powers of God by
right thinking," is the agency through which Dr. Rawson declares he can so treat a man that
he will not be harmed when hundreds of men are being shot dead beside him. This amazing treatment
includes a new type of prayer. It is being administered to hundreds of men audibly, and to
hundreds more by letter. Nothing since the war began has aroused so much talk of modern miracles
as have many of the statements of Dr. Rawson.......

At the taking of a wood there were five hundred yards of "No Man's Land" to be crossed. Our
troops could not get across. Then Capt. --------, who practices this method of prayer, treated
them for an hour before they started, and not a man was knocked out. He was the only officer
left out of eighty in his brigade. He simply held onto the fact that man is spiritual and perfect
and could not be touched. A bullet fired from a revolver only five yards away hit him over
the chest, tore his shirt and went out at the shoulder. But it never penetrated his chest.
He was frequently in a hail of shells and bullets which did not touch him.

The Graft of Grace

All this is grotesque; but it is what happens to religions in a world of commercial competition.
It happens not merely to Christian Science and New Thought religions, Mazdaznan and Zionist,
Holy Roller and Mormon religions, but to Catholic and Episcopalian, Presbyterian and Methodist
and Baptist religions. For you see, when you are with the wolves you must howl with them; when
you are competing with fakirs you must fake. The ordinary Christian will read the claims of
the New Thought fakers with contempt; but have I not shown the Catholic Church publishing long
lists of money-miracles? Have I not shown the Church of Good Society, our exclusive and aristocratic
Protestant Episcopal communion, pretending to call rain and to banish pestilence, to protect
crops and win wars and heal those who are "sick in estate"--that is, who are in business trouble?

The reader will say that I am a cynic, despising my fellows; but that is not so. I am an economic
scientist, analyzing the forces which operate in human societies. I blame the prophets and
priests and healers for their fall from idealism; but I blame still more the competitive wage-system,
which presents them with the alternative to swindle or to starve.

For, you see, the prophet has to have food. He has frequently got along with almost none, and
with only a rag for clothing; in Palestine and India, where the climate is warm, a sincere
faith has been possible for short periods. But the modern prophet who expects to influence
the minds of men has to have books and newspapers; he will find a telephone and a typewriter
and postage-stamps hardly to be dispensed with, also in Europe and America some sort of a roof
over his meeting place. So the prophet is caught, like all the rest of us, in the net of the
speculator and the landlord. He has to get money, and in order to get it he has to impress
those who already have it--people whose minds and souls have been deformed by the system of
parasitism and exploitation.

So the prophet becomes a charlatan; or, if he refuses, he becomes a martyr, and founds a church
which becomes a church of charlatans. I care not how sincere, how passionately proletarian
a religious prophet may be, that is the fate which sooner or later befalls him in a competitive
society--to be the founder of an organization of fools, conducted by knaves, for the benefit
of wolves. That fate befell Buddha and Jesus, it befell Ignatius Loyola and Francis of Assisi,
John Fox and John Calvin and John Wesley.

A friend of mine who has made a study of "Spiritualism" describes to me the conditions in that
field. The mediums are people, mostly women, with a peculiar gift; whether we believe in the
survival of personality, or whether we call it telepathy, does not alter the fact that they
have a rare and special sensitiveness, a new faculty which science must investigate. They come,
poor people mostly--for the well-to-do will seldom give their time to exacting and wearisome
experiments. They come, wearing frayed and thin clothing, shivering with cold, obviously undernourished;
and their survival depends upon their producing "phenomena"--which phenomena are capricious,
and will not come at call. So, what more natural than that mediums should resort to faking?
That the whole field should be reeking with fraud, and science should be held back from understanding
an extraordinary power of the subconscious mind?

Ever since we came to Pasadena, various ladies have been telling us about the wondrous powers
of a mulatto-woman, a manicurist at the city's most fashionable hotel. The other day, out of
curiosity, my wife and I went; the moment the "medium" opened her mouth my wife recognized
her as the person who has been trying for several months to get me on the telephone to tell
me how the spirit of Jack London is seeking to communicate with me! The seance was a public
one, a gathering composed, half of wealthy and cultured society-women, and half of confederates,
people with the dialect and manners of a vaudeville troupe. A megaphone was set in the middle
of the floor, the room was made dark, a couple of hymns were sung, and then the spirit of Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes spoke through the megaphone with a Bowery accent, and gave communications
from relatives and friends of the various confederates. "Jesus is with us", said Dr. Holmes.
"The spirit of Jesus bids you to study spiritualism." And then came the voice of a child: "Mamma!
Mamma!" "It is little Georgie!" cried Dr. Holmes; and one of the society ladies started, and
answered, and presently burst into tears. A marvelous piece of evidence--especially when you
recall that the story of this mother's bereavement had been published in all the papers a couple
of months before!

And this kind of swindling is going on every night in every city of America. It goes on wholesale
for months every summer at Lily Dale, in New York State, where the spiritualists hold their
combination of Chautauqua and Coney Island. And the same thing is going on in the field of
mental healing, and of all other "occult" forces and powers, whether real or imaginary. It
is going on with new spiritual fervors, new moral idealisms, new poetry, new music, new painting,
new sculpture. The faker, the charlatan is everywhere--using the mental and moral and artistic
forces of life as a means of delivering himself from economic servitude. Everywhere I turn
I see it--credulity being exploited, and men of practical judgment, watching the game and seeing
through it, made hard in their attitude of materialism. How many men I know who sit by in sullen
protest while their wives drift from one new quackery to another, wasting their income seeking
health and happiness in futile emotionalism! How many kind and sensitive spirits I know--both
men and women--who pour their treasures of faith and admiration into the laps of hierophants
who began by fooling all mankind and ended by fooling themselves!

In each one of the cults of what I have called the "Church of the Quacks", there are thousands,
perhaps millions of entirely sincere, self-sacrificing people. They will read this book--if
anyone can persuade them to read it--with pain and anger; thinking that I am mocking at their
faith, and have no appreciation of their devotion. All that I can say is that I am trying to
show them how they are being trapped, how their fine and generous qualities are being used
by exploiters of one sort or another; and how this must continue, world without end, until
there is order in the material affairs of the race, until justice has been established as the
law of man's dealing with his fellows.

BOOK SEVEN

The Church of the Social Revolution

 They have taken the tomb of our Comrade Christ--
   Infidel hordes that believe not in man;
  Stable and stall for his birth sufficed,
      But his tomb is built on a kingly plan.
  They have hedged him round with pomp and parade,
      They have buried him deep under steel and stone--
But we come leading the great Crusade
      To give our Comrade back to his own.                        
                            Waddell. If thou, therefore, wilt worship
me, all shall be thine." Jesus, as we know, answered and said
"Get thee behind me, Satan!" And he really meant it; he would
have nothing to do with worldly glory, with "temporal power;" he
chose the career of a revolutionary agitator, and died the death
of a disturber of the peace. And for two or three centuries his
church followed in his footsteps, cherishing his proletarian
gospel. The early Christians had "all things in common, except
women;" they lived as social outcasts, hiding in deserted
catacombs, and being thrown to lions and boiled in oil.

But the devil is a subtle worm; he does not give up at one defeat, for he knows human nature,
and the strength of the forces which battle for him. He failed to get Jesus, but he came again,
to get Jesus' church. He came when, through the power of the new revolutionary idea, the Church
had won a position of tremendous power in the decaying Roman Empire; and the subtle worm assumed
the guise of no less a person than the Emperor himself, suggesting that he should become a
convert to the new faith, so that the Church and he might work together for the greater glory
of God. The bishops and fathers of the Church, ambitious for their organization, fell for this
scheme, and Satan went off laughing to himself. He had got everything he had asked from Jesus
three hundred years before; he had got the world's greatest religion. How complete and swift
was his success you may judge from the fact that fifty years later we find the Emperor Valentinian
compelled to pass an edict limiting the donations of emotional females to the church in Rome!

From that time on Christianity has been what I have shown in this book, the chief of the enemies
of social progress. From the days of Constantine to the days of Bismarck and Mark Hanna, Christ
and Caesar have been one, and the Church has been the shield and armor of predatory economic
might. With only one qualification to be noted: that the Church has never been able to suppress
entirely the memory of her proletarian Founder. She has done her best, of course; we have seen
how her scholars twist his words out of their sense, and the Catholic Church even goes so far
as to keep to the use of a dead language, so that her victims may not hear the words of Jesus
in a form they can understand.

 'Tis well that such seditious songs are sung
  Only by priests, and in the Latin tongue!

But in spite of this, the history of the Church has been one incessant struggle with upstarts
and rebels who have filled themselves with the spirit of the Magnificat and the Sermon on the
Mount, and of that bitterly class-conscious proletarian, James, the brother of Jesus.

And here is the thing to be noted, that the factor which has given life to Christianity, which
enables it to keep its hold on the hearts of men today, is precisely this new wine of faith
and fervor which has been poured into it by generation after generation of poor men who live
like Jesus as outcasts, and die like Jesus as criminals, and are revered like Jesus as founders
and saints. The greatest of the early Church fathers were bitterly fought by the Church authorities
of their own time. St. Chrysostom, Bishop of Constantinople, was turned out of office, exiled
and practically martyred; St. Basil was persecuted by the Emperor Valens; St. Ambrose excommunicated
the tyrannical Emperor Theodosius; St. Cyprian gave all his wealth to the poor, and was exiled
and finally martyred. In the same way, most of the heretics whom the Holy Inquisition tortured
and burned were proletarian rebels; the saints whom the Church reveres, the founders of the
orders which gave it life for century after century, were men who sought to return to the example
of the carpenter's son. Let us hear a Christian scholar on this point, Prof. Rauschenbusch:

The movement of Francis of Assisi, of the Waldenses, of the Humiliati and Bons Hommes, were
all inspired by democratic and communistic ideals. Wiclif was by far the greatest doctrinal
reformer before the reformation; but his eyes, too, were first opened to the doctrinal errors
of the Roman Church by joining in a great national and patriotic movement against the alien
domination and extortion of the Church. The Bohemian revolt made famous by the name of John
Huss, was quite as much political and social as religious. Savonarola was a great democrat
as well as a religious prophet. In his famous interview with the dying Lorenzo de Medici he
made three demands as a condition for granting absolution. Of the man he demanded a living
faith in God's mercy. Of the millionaire he demanded restitution of his ill-gotten wealth.
Of the political usurper he demanded the restoration of the liberties of the people of Florence.
It is significant that the dying sinner found it easy to assent to the first, hard to assent
to the second, and impossible to concede the last.

Locusts and Wild Honey

This proletarian strain in Christianity goes back to a time long before Jesus; it seems to
have been inherent in the religious character of the Jews--that stubborn independence, that
stiff-necked insistence on the right of a man to interview God for himself and to find out
what God wants him to do; also the inclination to find that God wants him to oppose earthly
rulers and their plundering of the poor. What is it that gives to the Bible the vitality it
has today? Its literary style? To say that is to display the ignorance of the cultured; for
elevation of style is a by-product of passionate conviction; it is what the Jewish writers
had to say, and not the way they said it, that has given them their hold upon mankind. Was
it their insistence upon conscience, their fear of God as the beginning of wisdom? But that
same element appears in the Babylonian psalms, which are as eloquent and as sincere as those
of the Hebrews, yet are read only by scholars. Was it their sense of the awful presence of
divinity, of the soul immortal in its keeping? The Egyptians had that far more than the Hebrews,
and yet we do not cherish their religious books. Or was it the love of man for all things living,
the lesson of charity upon which the Catholics lay such stress? The gentle Buddha had that,
and had it long before Christ; also his priests had metaphysical subtlety, greater than that
of John the Apostle or Thomas Aquinas.

