But bare acquaintance is in-communicable, moreover it requires a great effort to maintain it.
In order to communicate it and retain the power of getting the facts back again after we have
relaxed our grip on them we are obliged, once we have obtained the fullest direct knowledge
of which we are capable, to apply the intellectual method to the fact thus revealed and attempt
to describe it in general terms.

Now the directly known forms a creative duration whose special characteristics are that it
is non-logical, (i.e., is not made up of distinct mutually exclusive terms united by external
relations) and does not contain parts which can be repeated over and over, while on the other
hand the terms which we have to substitute for it if we want to describe it only stand for
repetitions and have the logical form. It looks, therefore, as if our descriptions could not,
as they stand, be very successful in conveying to others the fact known to us directly, or
in recalling it to ourselves.

In order that the description substituted by our intellectual activity for the facts which
we want to describe may convey these facts it is necessary to perform an act of synthesis on
the description analogous to the act of perception which originally created the fact itself
out of mere matter. The words used in a description should be to the hearer what mere matter
is to the perceiver: in order that matter may be perceived an act of synthesis must be performed
by which the matter is turned into fact in duration: similarly in order to gather what a description
of a fact means the hearer must take the general terms which are employed not as being distinct
and mutually exclusive but as modifying one another and interpenetrating in the way in which
the "parts" of a process of creative duration interpenetrate. In the same way by understanding
the terms employed synthetically and not intellectually we can use a description to recall
any fact which we have once known directly. Thus our knowledge advances by alternate acts of
direct acquaintance and analysis.

Philosophy must start from a fresh effort of acquaintance creating, if possible, a fact wider
and fuller than the facts which we are content to know for the purposes of everyday life. But
analysis is essential if the fact thus directly known is to be conveyed to others and recalled.
By analysis the philosopher fixes this wider field in order that he may communicate and recall
it. Starting later from the description of some fact obtained by a previous effort of acquaintance,
or from several facts obtained at different times, and also from the facts described by others,
and using all these descriptions as material, it may be possible, by a fresh effort, to perform
acts of acquaintance, (or synthesis) embracing ever wider and wider fields of knowledge. This,
according to Bergson, is the way in which philosophical knowledge should be built up, facts,
obtained by acts of acquaintance, being translated into descriptions only that these descriptions
may again be further synthesised so directing our attention to more and more comprehensive facts.

Inevitably, of course, these facts themselves, being less than all the stream of creative duration
to which they belong, will be abstractions, if taken apart from that whole stream, and so distorted.
This flaw in what we know even by direct acquaintance can never be wholly remedied short of
our succeeding in becoming acquainted with the whole of duration. It is something, however,
to be aware of the flaw, even if we cannot wholly remedy it, and the wider the acquaintance
the less is the imperfection in the fact known.

