Suddenly Patsy, sobbing and shaking, cannoned into some one, something, in the darkness of
the trees.  A man's voice cursed him low and deep,--no ghostly voice, nor that of the countryside,
an unfamiliar voice and speech to Patsy.  His slender little body was caught in a fierce grip.
He was lifted and dashed on to the road.  If it had been a stony road, instead of the yielding
bog, there would have been an end of Patsy's story.  As it was he lay very quietly, while the
little goat went home without him.

CHAPTER I

O'GARAS OF CASTLE TALBOT

Patsy Kenny, stud-groom to Sir Shawn O'Gara, a quiet man, devoted to his horses and having
a wonderful way with them, sometimes allowed his mind to wander back to the night Mr. Terence
Comerford was killed and the days that followed.

He could recall the inquest on poor Mr. Terence, himself, with a bandaged head, keeping the
one eye he had available fixed on the gentleman who asked him questions.  He knew that Sir
Shawn O'Gara was present, his face marble pale and his eyes full of a strange anguish. Well,
that was not to be wondered at.  The gentleman who asked the questions made sympathetic references
to the unusual friendship between Sir Shawn and Mr. Comerford.  Patsy had been aware of the
nervous tension in Sir Shawn's face, the occasional quiver of a nostril, "Like as if he was
a horse, a spirity one, aisy frightened, like Spitfire," Patsy had thought.

He remembered that tense anguish of Sir Shawn's face now, as he sat on the trunk of a fallen
tree in the paddock of the foals at Castle Talbot.  The foals were running with their mothers,
exquisite creatures, of the most delicate slenderness.  The paddock was full of the lush grass
of June.  The mares were contentedly grazing.  Now and again one lifted her head and sniffed
the air with the wind in her mane, as if at the lightest sound she would take fright.

Patsy had had a hard tussle that morning with an ill-tempered horse he was breaking, and he
felt tired out.  He had no idea of compelling a horse with a whip.  Sir Shawn had bought this
horse at a fair a short time before.  He was jet-black and they had called him Mustapha.  That
was Master Terry's name for him, a queer heathenish name to Patsy's mind, but all Master Terry
did and all the mistress, Master Terry's mother did, was right in Patsy's eyes, so Mustapha
the horse was called.

He was certainly an ill-tempered brute, with a lot of the devil in him, but Patsy Kenny was
never angry with a horse; it was an invaluable quality in a stud-groom.  Patsy was wont to
say that when he found a horse wicked he looked for the man.  There was no evidence of the
man so far as their record of Mustapha went.  He had been bought from a little old man as pink
as a baby and with a smiling innocence of aspect, so small that when Mustapha tossed his head
the little man, hanging on by the rope-bridle, was lifted in the air and dropped again.

"That crathur," said Patsy to himself, "would never have done the horse a wrong.  I wonder
where he got him from an' who had the rearin' of him.  I'm surprised the master cared to handle
him.  He's as like as two pins to Spitfire.  Where was it they said Spitfire went?  Some mountainy
man bought her for a five-pound note I've heard tell."

He pulled out a fine red handkerchief and mopped his forehead with it. He'd had two hours of
it trying to "insinse some rayson" into Mustapha's head.  He had not made much progress.  Mustapha
was still kicking and squealing in his loose-box.  The sounds reached Patsy Kenny where he
sat on his log and made him sad.  Gentle as he was he thought he had an understanding of even
Mustapha.  The ears back, the whites of the eyes showing, the wild nostrils, the tense muscles
under the skin of black satin, were something of an unhappiness in his mind.  Some time or
other Mustapha must have been ill-treated.

He put his head down on his hand.  He was really tired out.  So he was unaware of the approach
over the grass towards him of two people till their shadows fell upon him and he looked up.

"That brute has taken it out of you, Patsy," said the elder man, who had a curious elegance
of face and figure.  Years had not coarsened Sir Shawn O'Gara.  He was still slight and active.
His white hair was in almost startling contrast with the darkly foreign face, the small black
moustache, the dark eyes, almost too large and soft and heavily lashed for a man's eyes.

The boy who was with him was very unlike his father.  He had taken after his mother, who had
once been Mary Creagh, of whom some one had said she had the colour of the foxes.  The boy
had his mother's reddish brown eyes and hair, something of the same colour underlying his fair
skin as it did hers.  He had the white, even teeth, the flashing and radiant smile.  Mary Creagh
had been a beautiful girl, with a look of motherliness even in her immature girlhood.  As a
wife and mother that aspect of her beauty had developed.  Many a strange confidence had been
brought to Mary Creagh, and later to Lady O'Gara.  She had a way of opening hearts and lips
with that soft, steadfast glance of hers.  Her full bosom looked as though it were made for
a child's head or a man's to rest upon.

"He'll come round, he'll come round," said Patsy.  "He'll have been hurted some time or another.
Whin he gets to know me he'll be biddable enough."

"Oh, I know your theories," Sir Shawn said, a smile breaking over the melancholy of his face.
"You'll never give in that a horse could be cursed with a natural ill-temper.  But there are
ill-tempered people: why not ill-tempered horses?"

"Bedad, I dunno!" said Patsy, scratching his head thoughtfully.  He stood up with a jerk. 
It had occurred to him suddenly that he was sitting while the gentlemen were standing.  "I
never could see inside a human.  I don't know how it is at all that I can see the mind of a horse."

"You're a wonderful man, Patsy," said the boy gaily.  "You are wasted as our stud-groom.  The
scientific beggars would like to get hold of a man who could see into the mind of a horse.
Only we couldn't spare you.  I'm afraid Mustapha would only listen to reason from you, and
I've set my heart on riding him this Autumn."

"You won't do that, Master Terry, till I've had a good many more talks with the horse.  I'd
be sorry to see you ridin' him yet, sir."

Terry O'Gara, brilliant in white flannels,--he had been playing tennis with his mother's distant
young cousin, Eileen Creagh--seemed to draw the afternoon sun on to his spotlessness.  Patsy
Kenny, a little dazed with fatigue, blinked at his whiteness against the green grass.

A mare came trotting up to them with her foal.  The mare allowed herself to be fondled, but
the little foal was very wild and cantered away when they tried to stroke him.

The big paddock was a pleasant sight with the mares and their foals wandering over the young
grass.  The trees surrounding the paddock had not yet lost their first fresh green: and the
white red-roofed stabling, newly built to accommodate the racing stud, made a vivid high light
against the coppices.

The three wandered on from one mare and foal to another.  Patsy, chewing a straw, offered the
opinion that Magda's foal was the best of the lot.  Magda belonged to her Ladyship.

"There won't be a foal in it like that little wan," said Patsy, looking at a tall chestnut
foal, the slender legs of which seemed as though they might break with a little pressure, so
delicate were they.  "The filly won't be in it, Master Terry, wid your Mamma's horse.  I've
never seen a better foal.  He'll win the Derby yet.  Woa, Magda, woa, my beauty."

He was trying to get close to the mare, she being restive.  Suddenly she uttered a joyous whinny
and started off down the field, the little foal at her heels, the long manes of both flying
in the wind.

"She knows her Ladyship has sugar for her.  An' there's Miss Eileen.  I never knew a young
lady as much afraid of a horse as Miss Eileen.  You should tache her better, Master Terry."

They stood by a gate to look at the horses which at a little distance beyond a small enclosure
hung their long sleek noses across a five-foot paling.  The points of the horses had to be
discussed.  Patsy had quite forgotten his fatigue.  He opened the gate and they crossed the
narrow strip between that and the paling.  A second gate was opened and they passed through.

While they were looking at the horses they were joined by Lady O'Gara and Miss Creagh, the
latter, a delicately fair girl with a mass of fine golden hair caught up with many hairpins
a-top of her small head, keeping close to Lady O'Gara.

Lady O'Gara was laughing.  Her husband sometimes called her the Laughing Goddess.  She had
two aspects to her beauty--one when she was soft and motherly, the other when she rallied those
she loved and sparkled with merriment.  Her still beautiful copper-coloured hair had hardly
a white thread in it.  She was very charming to look at in her matronly beauty.

"I've had to defend poor Eileen from the mares," she said.  "They were impudent, crowding around
me for sugar and sticking their noses in my pocket.  Magda and Brunette nearly came to blows.
I had to push them off with my whip.  Poor Eileen!"

"I'm so sorry you were frightened," Terry O'Gara said, drawing a little nearer to the girl
and looking into her blue eyes.

The others had gone on.

"You won't be afraid with me," said the boy, who had just passed out of Sandhurst; and was
feeling immensely proud of his commission and his sword and all they betokened, although he
talked lazily about "cutlery" and the pleasure of getting into mufti, making his mother's eyes
dance.

"If you like, we will keep behind," he said.  "If you are not accustomed to it, it is rather
alarming to be caught into a herd of horses.  My mother is so used to them that she cannot
imagine any one being afraid."

The horses were coming in a long string from the other end of the paddock, whinnying and neighing,
shaking the ground as they came.  The girl drew back towards the hedge.

"It's only rough love," the boy said.  "Patsy Kenny can do anything with the horses.  They
quarrel if he takes more notice of one than another."

"They won't hurt your mother?" the girl said anxiously.  "There she is in the midst of them.
Is it safe?"

"Quite safe.  Nothing will happen to Mother while Father and Patsy Kenny are there.  What a
frightened child you are!"

Miss Creagh's soft red mouth widened into a smile which had amusement in it.  She was six years
older than the boy who called her a frightened child.  The smile was gone before he could see it.

"I'm afraid I'm rather a coward," she said meekly.  "Father has always said that it was absurd
for a soldier's daughter to be alarmed of so many things."

Terry O'Gara thought at the moment that it was the most beautiful and appealing thing in the
world for a girl to be frightened of many things, when the girl happened to be as pretty as
Eileen Creagh, and he was the valiant youth who was to protect her from her terrors. Although
he liked the feeling of protecting her he fell in with her suggestion that they should go back
and talk to the foals.  Miss Creagh was certainly a coward, for she cried out when a horse
showed any evidence of friendliness; but when Terry suggested that they should go to the garden
and look for strawberries she did not fall in with the suggestion.

"Let us wait for your mother here," she said, having gained the safe shelter of the space between
the palings and the gate.  "You are sure she is quite safe?  Just look at her among those wild
horses!  There couldn't be ... an accident?"

He laughed at her terrors.

"Mother was born in a stable, so to speak," he said.  "She has a way with the horses.  But
how fond you are of her!  I am so grateful to you for appreciating my mother as she deserves."

"She is an angel," said the girl fervently.

"Well, I think so."  He laughed rather shyly.  "It would not be easy for a boy to have better
parents.  Father is quite unlike Mother, of course ... but ... I have a tremendous admiration
for him, all the same.  I'll tell you a secret.  I believe up to this time I have wanted more
than anything else to please my father.  When I had to work for exams. I hated, or any stunt
of that kind, when I--oh, I oughtn't to be talking about myself.  It isn't that I love Mother
less, but Mother is so happy.  She would always find something good in my failures. But--to
see Father's face light up...!"

"He looks rather sad," Miss Creagh said wistfully.

"Yes, though he can be uncommonly jolly.  We have had such rags together in London.  Why, here
is Shot."  He stooped to fondle the head of a beautiful red setter.  "He must have got shut
up in the garden. What I can't understand about Shot is his indifference to you."

"He knows that in my secret heart I'm afraid of dogs,--a dreadful admission, isn't it?  I think
it was our old nurse.  I can always remember her driving a dog out of the nursery.  'Nasty
thing!' she used to say.  'You shall not come near my baby.'  I suppose I got the idea quite
in babyhood that a dog was something noxious.  Not that the others minded.  The house was always
full of dogs."

"Oh, you'll get over that.  Won't she, Shot?  Do you think his hair and eyes are like my Mother's?"

"Like?"  Miss Creagh was puzzled.  "Oh, surely not!  How could a dog's hair and eyes be like
a person's.  Your beautiful mother!  It seems such an odd comparison."

"Oh, well--Shot is beautiful too."

Despite his infatuation Terry felt a little disappointed in Miss Creagh.

Sir Shawn and Lady O'Gara had gone on into the next paddock, which belonged to the young mares.
There was a momentary excitement.  One of the horses had got through after them and was racing
up and down between the hurdles whinnying loudly.  By the time he was secured and put back
in his proper quarters the young people were out of sight.

CHAPTER II

PATSY REMEMBERS

"Shot's a good dog," Patsy Kenny was wont to observe in his slow way, "an' his father before
him was a good dog.  Yet I wouldn't be sayin' but what ould Shot, the grandfather, wasn't the
pick o' the basket."

Old Shot had lived for five years after Sir Shawn O'Gara's marriage to Mary Creagh, which had
sorely offended and alienated Mrs. Comerford, who had brought up the girl from childhood and
loved her like a daughter.  When he had died it was by Lady O'Gara's wish that the dog was
buried in the grass-plot just outside the drawing-room window.  She could see the mound from
the window recess, where she sat to write her letters, in which she kept her work-table, the
book she was reading, and various other belongings; she had screened it off so that the deep
recess was like a little room to itself.

"When I look up and see the mound instead of Shot it always hurts me," she had said in early
days.  "But then I feel that he likes to be near."

"He was so fond of you, Mary," her husband often said, "fonder even, I believe, than he was of me."

"Oh, no, Shawn, not that.  No one could take your place with Shot.  But he accepted me, dear
old dog, and I am very proud of it."

That was before Shot's son had aspired to take his father's place, while he was still indeed
one of a likely litter of puppies in the stable-yard, just beginning to be cast off by Judy
who had other things to do in a sporting Autumn besides looking after a lot of sprawling, big-pawed
puppies, who were quite independent of her and becoming rather unmanageable.

It was also before old Shot had begun to return to his friends as nothing more tangible than
a padding of soft paws on the stairs, a movement under the dining-table, where he had been
accustomed to lie in life, a sound of a dog lying down with a sigh, or getting up from the
hearthrug before the billiard-room fire. 

I just need a few words to the known position to remember what the learning the Latin language
had previously, that the same not only for a moment of the learned Study was considered, but the
most essential part of it accounted for and the only higher education resources was at which they presented
was that not the general, quite elementary wanted to stop lessons, that for the acquisition of
other skills, which for bourgeois life or useful in and of themselves are of value, hardly
the express stations were made, but on the whole the opportunity to make over the alder that language
was whether some of them and how much it anflog - that those skills in part for a special
art, were not also for an educational resources, mostly in those shell were wrapped.

The general voice was raised against that wretched become Latin learning,
and it rose especially the feeling that a people can not be regarded
as formed, which is not all the treasures of science in his own language
to express and be in it with each Content can move freely.

This intimacy with which the language of our own angehoert missing the knowledge that we possess
only in a strange, they are by a partition of separated us, the spirit which they can not truly
be indigenous.

This point of view, the bad, often to the patency mechanism sinking down methods, the failed
acquisition of many important skills and mental skills has gradually
the knowledge of the Latin language of their claims, as the principal
science to apply, and their long alleged dignity, and almost universal
means of education ausschlieslich to be discontinued.

She has stopped to be regarded as an end, and this spiritual Employment, however, has called objects,
and below normal daily, sensual things leave no educational materials are capable of over herself
conversant'll have to see. Without contrasts in this and the other provisions in their exaggerations
or Outside enter into a collision, it is sufficient here to rejoice the wise relationship, which our very
highest government has set herein.

First, is the same with the perfection of the German national schools the general citizen education
extended, it will thereby provides all the resources essential to them as people and for their
stand to learn useful, those who lacked the Better yet, is thereby guaranteed respecting the
same, but to those who, for something better than the inadequate
general Receive instruction could access only to the said means of
education is the same made expendable and replaced by proper knowledge
and skills .-- Also the local city provides the complete organization
of the largest parts of the remaining Kingdom of already proven boon
forward to - a boon to their important Consequences for the whole
thing difficult to calculate.

Second, the study of science and the acquisition of higher mental and useful Skills in their
independence from the old literature, in a separate sister institution get their full resources.

Third,
finally, the old language study has been preserved. It is sometimes still higher than Educational
resources open to everyone, but sometimes it is based on thorough studies of the learned been
secured. By the same is now entered in addition to that, it's his ausschlieslich become forfeited
and may have erased the hate against his former pretensions. So entered on the page, it has to
demand the more the law, that in his deposition GRANT may and free
of strange and disturbing interference also remain undisturbed.

Through this separation and restriction, it has its true position
and the opportunity get to be able to develop more freely and fully.

The real hallmark of of freedom and strength of an organization is, if the distinct moments, it contains,
to delve into and make the completed system, without envy and Fear driving next to each other
their work and see it drift, and that all the parts again just of a whole are. Only that which
is completely isolated in his principle does, is a consistent whole, ie there is something,
it gains depth and the strong possibility of diversity. The concern and anxiety about one-sidedness
is accustomed to frequently anzugehoeren the weakness, the only versatile
inconsistent superficiality is capable.

If now is the study of ancient languages ​​like before the foundation of the learned education,
it has been in this restriction really extended. There seems to be a just demand to be that the
culture, art and science of a people to their own Legs are to come. We allowed the formation of
the modern world, our clarification and the progress of arts and sciences do not believe that
the Greek and have represented Roman children's shoes, outgrown its old-strings on their own
Land can be based? The works of the ancients would like her after all, bigger or smaller value
remain troubled, but they had in the series of memories, learned
of idle Sights to repudiate the mere historical, the record could
be or not, but not the absolute basis for our higher spiritual development
and Beginning would have to make.

Let us apply it, however, that at all presumed to be excellent, so is for the higher studies in Greek
literature primarily, and then the Romans, the basis to be and to remain. The perfection and
glory of these masterpieces have the intellectual Bad be the secular baptism, which the soul
and the first captive tone and tincture science of taste and give up. And to this inauguration
is not a general exterior sufficiently acquainted with the old, but we have to them in food and provide
housing to their air, their ideas, their customs, even if you will, their errors and prejudices
and to suck in this world are indigenous - the most beautiful, which was is.

If the first paradise was the paradise of human nature, this is the
second, higher, Paradise of the human mind, the most beautiful in
its naturalness, freedom, depth and serenity as the bride emerges
from her room.

The first wild splendor of its emergence in the East by the glory of the form is defined and
reduced to beauty; it has its depth is no longer in the confusion, Truebseligkeit or conceit,
but it lies open in uninhibited clarity, and his cheerfulness is not a childish game hergebreitet
but about the sadness that knows the harshness of fate, but through them not about the freedom
and it is driven from the ground. I do not think too much to say when I say that anyone who
works for the elderly is not known, has lived without the beauty of knowing.

In such elements now, by us [is] ors, it's not just that all the forces of soul inspired, developed
and practiced, but the same is a peculiar Material, through which
we enrich ourselves and better prepare our substance.

It has been said that the Geistestaetigkeit can be practiced at any substances, and as the most appropriate
material appeared in part Externally practically useful, and sometimes the sensible objects,
the juvenile or the child's age are the most appropriate by the parties and all belonged to the
type of representation, which this age already and have for themselves.

If maybe, maybe not in the formal matter, the practice of self- respect to this circle, on which
to do it, so can be separated and indifferent on the other hand might be, it is not about practicing
to do alone.

Like the plant that forces its reproduction of light and air not only acts but also in the processes
of their Food sucks, then the material on which the mind at all and the fortune of the soul develop and
exercise at the same time be a food.

Not those so-called useful substances, those sensuous materiality, as it falls directly into
the mode of conception of the child, only the intellectual content, which value and interest in and of
itself has reinforced, the Soul and gives them support independent, this substantial inward,
which Mother of form, of sound mind, is the present and the guards
of the mind, he created the great soul drawn to it for a purpose that
only the basis of usefulness to all accounts and it is important to
instill in all classes.

We have not in recent Times even states himself that such an inner light in the soul of their
relatives maintain and develop neglected and despised them on the mere usefulness and in the
intellectual and only as a means directed, and stand in danger haltungslos zusammenstuerzen in
the middle of its many useful resources to see?

The finest food material now and in the noblest form, the golden apples in silver bowls, include
the works of the ancients, and incomparably more than any other Weke any time and nation.
I need to the grandeur of her sentiments, her plastic, of moral Ambiguity-free virtue and patriotism,
to the grand scale of their actions and characters, the diversity of their destinies, their customs
and constitutions only to remember the assertion to justify that to the extent not so much
education admirable, admirable, Original, versatile and informative was united.

This wealth but is bound by the language, and only in and through this we reach it in all its peculiarity.
The contents give us some translations, but not the form, not the ethereal soul of it. They are
like the fake roses shape, color, as well as the odor may be naturally similar, but the loveliness
Delicacy and softness of life do not reach those.

Or other delicacy and Fineness of the copy belongs only to that at which a contrast between the content
and not with him the adult form makes itself felt. Language is the musical element, the element
of intimacy that disappears in the transmission, - the subtle scent, by the the sympathy of the
soul is to enjoy, but without the work of the ancients only taste such as the Rhine wine that is
into thin air.

This situation presents us with the hard translucent need the languages
​​of the Old thoroughly to study and to make us familiar with their
works in the most possible extent of all to be able to enjoy their
sides and superiority.

If we are about the struggles that we in this would have to apply to complain, and it could
fear or regret, the acquisition other knowledge and skills to have to return and share about
it, so we would have the fate to complain that we are not in our own language has given this
group of classical works will be that we made the journey to ancient times muehevolle expendable and replacement
the same for granted.

After I spoke of the materials of education, leads to this desire, some Words to say about the formal,
that is in their nature.

The progress of education is not given as the quiet continuation of
a chain to see at its former members but with the following would
Ruecksicht them together, but matter on its own and without this further
work would be directed against the former.

But the education must have a former substance and subject on which she works, they formed and changed
again. It is necessary that we acquire the world of antiquity, so in order to possess her, even
more than to have something that we process .-- But to to be subject to, the substance of the
nature and spirit are confronted be, they must have received the form of something alien to
.-- misfortune, which his immediate world of feelings is alienated, for this means nothing else than
that the individual bonds that befriend the mind and thoughts to the holy life of faith, Love
and trust, he is torn - For the alienation that the theoretical condition Education is not that
these calls moral pain, not the suffering of the heart, but the ease
of pain and effort of the imagination, with a non-immediate, an alien,
with a bit of memory, the memory and thinking relatives offering jobs
for .-- This requirement of separation but is so necessary that they
be considered a known in general and drive us MATTER.

The strangeness, the distance the attractive leads Interest, arising from the invites to the
employment and effort, and the Desirable is in inverse ratio to the
vicinity in which it stands and the public is with us. represents
the youth of it as a blessing to get away from the locals and with
Robinson to inhabit a distant island.

It is a necessary deception, the first depth in the form the distance to have to look, but the depth
and strength that we gain can only be the distance to be measured, in which we flew from the
central points in which we were first buried and where we strive again.

On these Zentrifugaltrieb the soul is based now at all the need for divorce it seeks from its natural
character and condition, proffering her own and a distant, to have to put into another world
in the young mind. The partition, however, so this Separation for the formation of which is discussed
here, is accomplished, the world and language the elderly, but it that separates us from us will
contain the same time all the initial points and threads the return to itself, the friends with
her and the rediscovery of himself, but its true to the general nature of the mind.

This common need which the world of imagination so much as to be the language this includes, when
we apply them to the learning of the latter, is self-evident that the mechanical side of it
is more than just a necessary evil. For the mechanical is [the] spirit of strangers, for whom
it has interest that put into it Undigested to digest, communicating to him even in inanimate
things and make it his own.

With the mechanical factors of language learning connects anyway once the grammatical Studies,
where the value can not be overestimated, for it is the beginning of the logical formation from
- a site that I touch even recently, because they almost forgotten come seems to be. The grammar
has the categories namely, the peculiar products and provisions of the mind for its content,
in her words Catch the understanding of self, to be learned. These spiritual beings, that makes
us first known, something highly barrel wonderland for the young,
and probably nothing spiritual [is] more intelligible than they; not
yet comprehensive because the power of this age, the rich can, in
its manifold not included, but those are the very simple abstractions.

They are, as the single letter, namely, the vowels of the spiritual, with which we begin to spell, [to]
it and to learn to read then. - Then it also carries the grammar to that age appropriate Art
ago by the same characteristics by external aid, which the language itself usually contains different,
teaches, something better than anyone can distinguish red and blue, without the definitions of these
colors according to Newton's hypothesis, or any other theory to be able to specify ranges that
knowledge through the time being, and it is highly important in this discrepancies have been
alerted.

For if the mind conditions because We are intelligent beings, are in us and we understand them
immediately, there is The first is education, they have to say they made the subject of consciousness
to have to be able to distinguish and by features.

By learning the grammatical terminology and abstractions are moving
in this Study as the elemental philosophy to see is it will not only
significantly as means but as an end - both in the Latin than in the
German language teaching - considered.

The general superficial levity to market the whole of the seriousness and violence the shocks that we
experienced was needed, had, as in other respects, so well known, Again, the relationship between
means and end runs, and the substantive knowledge of a language higher than their course for care .--
The grammatical learning an ancient language also has the advantage of being persistent and unremitting
Vernunfttaetigkeit must be; for here, unlike in the mother tongue, the mindless habit the right
Wortfuegung causes, but it is necessary to the understanding of the specific value of the parts
of speech to make eyes and the rule of their connection to call for help. Thus, but finds a continual
subsumption of the particular under the universal and the particularity of the General rather than
what even the shape of the Vernunfttaetigkeit there .-- The strict grammatical studies is
therefore one of the most common and noblest means of education.

This combined with the study of the elderly in their peculiar language and the grammatical Study
makes up the essential features of the principle, which characterizes our institution. This important
right, it's so rich in itself understands, so not the full extent knowledge, in which introduces
our preparatory institution. Moreover, that even the Reading the old classic is chosen for
presenting an educational content that deals the Insurance Authority will also notify the
skills that have a value in and of itself, are of particular usefulness, or an ornament. I need
these objects here to name only: their size, their mode of treatment, the orderly sequence
of stages in the same and in their relationships with others, the
exercises that are angeknuepft to them in the auszuteilenden printed
message can be seen closer.

These items are in general: Religious education, German language, together with notice of
the Patriotic classics Later on arithmetic, algebra, geometry, geography, history, physiography,
which Cosmography, natural history and physics within itself, preparing philosophical sciences; also French, also
for drawing the future theologians Hebrew language, and Calligraphy. How little this Kenntisse
be neglected, it follows from the simple Account that if we place the four latter Unterrichtsgegenstaende
not stop, between those first mentioned and the ancient languages ​​of instruction in all the time
classes exactly is shared equally, and the articles mentioned but factored in, falls on the
study of ancient languages, not half, but only two of five parts of the whole class.

In this first study bygone years is the main thing was fixed up and in Gang come, the second
year of qualification and training to individual Branches, such as the Anfangsgruende physical
sciences, can be considered closer, and the highest of all grace his royal majesty us about how
we trust Confidently look forward to servicing, set .-- Also what in the external device and propriety
still going on - the Muses have few needs in themselves and are not
spoiled - what for the operation conditions of the external disciplinary
supervision is still required - and the Nature of the local character
and interest of the parents for their children's well-seclusion makes
this concern - and the like Nebenbeduerfnisse see their remedy already
the road.

The general effects of the very highest gracious arrangements, the gracious Venetian hinterland
Supervision and operation of the Police General Commissioner Koenig and the same according to
Efforts of the teachers in this first year has the audience through the public examinations had
the opportunity to assess .-- The last act, which we beschliesen the same, this public ceremonies
by which the Government of its institutions still gracious the moment of honor and the public
testimony of satisfaction with the progress will add to the student and student.
  Time and
time again I was doin' well and Georgie at school, but he always found us: I used to say my
prayers to be delivered from him, but I never was: I don't suppose I ever will be now.  I can't
hide from him.  I wouldn't mind for myself, if it wasn't for Georgie.  He'll kill Georgie."

"How long have you been at it?" Patsy Kenny asked quietly.

"This sort of life?  He found us in Leicestershire three months ago.  I was in a place with
one lady.  She was kind and let me have Georgie. She always said she'd never have known there
was a child in the house. Georgie went to school and came home of afternoons.  It was a quiet,
peaceful spot.  Baker found me again.  It wasn't the first time by many he dragged us out on
the road.  He sold all my clothes as well as takin' my savin's.  He said there was money for
him over here.  I don't see no sign of it.  The life will kill Georgie.  We tramped from Dublin:
with the last of my money Baker bought the tins to keep us goin' on the road.  It was bad in
the cold, wet weather last month."

"Have you no one at all belongin' to you?" Patsy asked in a low voice.

"Sisters and brothers, all respectable.  My parents are dead.  When I took Baker I turned my
back on them all."

Patsy's mind was working hard.  There must be some help for the woman's case.  It could not
be law that this ruffian should have the power to drag his wife and child after him, loading
them with burdens they were not fit to carry.  The creature knew no better than to yield to
him. The Master was a magistrate and a kindly one.  He was always settling disputes of one
kind or another.  Patsy thought of bidding her wait where she was till the Master could be found.

He looked up from his thoughts and saw that Mr. Baker had come back. His face was very red
and shiny.  He wore a truculent look.

"'Ullo!" he said thickly.  "'Ere's quite a family party.  'Ope you've been enjoyin' of yourselves
as I 'ave, subjec' to restrictions.  A bob don't go fur in liquor now-a-days.  You might ha'
made it two."

"One seems to have been quite enough for you," said Patsy, with a light of battle in eyes no
longer dreamy.

"I don't deny as I 'ad a bob myself to spend," said the ruffian. "'Ere, you, Georgie!  You
wake up, you lazy young devil!  'Tis time we was on the road."

Patsy stepped between the man and the child who had come out of his sleep with a cry of fear.
He put a open hand on Mr. Baker's chest and pushed him backward.  Somewhat contrary to his
expectations the man did not resent his action, beyond remarking that no one had the right
to interfere between a man and his kid.

"Now it comes to that," he said, with a sudden change to jocularity, "if so be as you've a
fancy for 'er I'd sell her for five quid an' throw in the kid.  It's no catch draggin' 'em
round an' me 'avin' to carry the cans 'arf the time because o' your blasted coppers."

The full enormity of the speech seemed to reveal itself only gradually to Patsy's mind.  He
turned red and then pale.  The poor woman was quivering as though a lash had struck her.

"You're a bad brute," said Patsy quietly.  "The woman's too good for you."

"You can 'ave her for nothink if you like.  She never was much good to me."

He sat down suddenly in the chair Georgie had left empty.

"I want to see your boss," he said: and his tone was bullying.

"I was thinkin' about that myself," said Patsy.

"You go along the road an' wait for me," he said with a sudden ferocity which made the woman
start.  "Off with ye now.  I'll come up with ye: unless this gentleman 'ud make it a matter
of a five-pun' note."

"Hold your dirty tongue," said Patsy, and landed Mr. Baker one in the chest.

The man rushed at him with his head down, a shower of foul words coming from his lips.  Before
anything could happen some one intervened,--Terry O'Gara, dazzlingly clean as he always looked.

"Here, you keep quiet, you ruffian!" he said, delivering a very neat blow just under the man's
chin.  "What is it all about, Patsy?  Hadn't I better send for the police?"

Mr. Baker had fallen back against the stone bench and subsided on to it, feeling his jaw bone.

"I'll make you pay for this yere conduck to an 'armless man wot was doin' nothink," he growled.

Something floated into Patsy's mind, vague, terrible.  Before he could grasp it another person
joined the group,--Sir Shawn O'Gara.

"What's the matter?" he asked.  "Who is this person?"

His face changed.  Patsy Kenny, who was watching him, saw the change. He had grown livid, his
lips blue.  Was he ill?  Was he going to fall?

Before Patsy could do anything he recovered himself and spoke.

"You have business with me?" he said to the tramp.

"Yes, sir."  Mr. Baker was suddenly cringingly respectful.  "I came 'ere to talk business an'
was set upon by this yere man o' yourn somethink crool.  I'd sack him if I was you.  Your 'orses
wouldn't be safe with 'im, 'im bein' so 'ot-tempered."

Sir Shawn still looked very ill.  Patsy had once seen a person in a bad heart-seizure.  Was
Sir Shawn's heart affected?  Small mottled patches of a purple colour had come out on the smooth
darkness of his skin. Angina.  That was what the doctor called it in the case of that other
person.  Had that mysterious, terrible disease laid hold on the Master? He had not looked well
for many a day.  Patsy had wondered that the Mistress did not see it, was not disturbed by
it, seeing how fond a wife she was.  His heart sank with fear for the Master.

"Let me deal with him, father," said Terry, looking like a young god in contrast with the unpleasant
Mr. Baker.

"I know this man," Sir Shawn said, quietly.  "He once rendered me a service."

"When I were gamekeeper over to Ashbridge 'All," said Mr. Baker eagerly, "you'd a bin shot
but for me.  Some gents will never learn 'ow 'to 'old their guns.  I knocked the barrel up
just in the nick.  That Mr. Lascelles, 'e weren't safe."

Ashbridge!  Oh--so the man had been employed at Ashbridge Hall, Lord Trentham's place, some
thirty miles away on the edge of Lough Aske. How long ago?  Patsy kept asking himself the question.
He looked after Sir Shawn and Mr. Baker as they went away in the direction of the house.  Sir
Shawn had an official room with a door opening out on to the grounds, so that the many people
who came to consult him on one business or another need not enter through the house.

"That fellow's face would hang him anywhere," said Terry O'Gara.  "I wonder what amount of
villainy lies between a gamekeeper's place at Ashbridge and the brute he is to-day?"

"God help them that are in his power," Patsy Kenny said fervently. Then he went to the gate
and looked out.  The pots and pans and cans had disappeared.  Down the long straight road there
was no one in sight.  The woman and child had vanished.

Oddly enough he was disturbed by the noise Mustapha was still making in his box-stall.

"I shouldn't be surprised now if he was to be a foal of Spitfire," he said.  "I did hear she
was bought by a man somewhere about Lewy mountain.  The little man we bought him from was a
mountainy man, if he wasn't a fairy."

CHAPTER IV

FROM THE PAST

The morning after these happenings Lady O'Gara, turning over the pile of letters on the breakfast
table, changed colour at the sight of one which bore an Italian postmark.  It was addressed
in a large firm handwriting in which only very keen observation could have discovered any sign
of weakening.  After that momentary glance she laid away the letter with the superscription
turned downwards while she read the rest of her correspondence.

When she had finished breakfast she followed her husband into his office, as that special room
was called.  The windows had not been opened--they were French windows and they served as a
door out on to the gravel sweep which ran around the house--and she thought she detected a
faint disagreeable smell, as of drugs.  She unbolted a window and flung it wide and the warm
June air came flowing in, banishing the unpleasant sharp odour.

"You haven't been taking anything, Shawn?" she asked, looking at him a little anxiously.  "I
thought I smelt something peculiar.  You are not looking well."

"I am very well, Mary," he answered.  "Perhaps it was the person I had here yesterday evening.
I believe I closed the window after he went out.  He had been drinking.  There was a horrible
smell."

"I came to the door while you were talking to him and I heard you say, 'What do you mean by
coming here?'  Who was he, Shawn?"

Again Sir Shawn was suddenly pale.  She was looking down at the letter she had extracted from
the pile, and he turned his back to the window, so that when she looked at him again with her
frank ingenuous gaze, his face was in shadow.

"He was a man who saved my life, or thinks he did, at a shooting-party at Ashbridge.  There
was a fellow there who had never handled a gun before.  He would have put a whole charge of
shot into me if this chap, Baker, hadn't knocked up his gun in time.  I don't think it would
have killed me, although it might have been rather unpleasant.  Baker likes to think, for his
own purposes,"--he spoke with a weary air,--"that he saved my life.  He may have saved my beauty.
He considers himself my pensioner."

"Ah!"  Lady O'Gara was satisfied with the explanation.  "What a pity he should drink!  Can
we do nothing for him?"

"I'm afraid not.  He would like to be my game-keeper, but that is out of the question.  He
had not much character when he left Ashbridge.  He has had more than one job in England since
then, and has lost them all. He has come down very much in the world even since I saw him last."

"A pity," said Lady O'Gara, "since he rendered you a service."

"I gave him some money and got rid of him: it was the only thing to do."

Once again Lady O'Gara's frank eyes turned upon her husband.

"I don't think you ever told me about that thing before," she said.  "I should have remembered
if you had told me."

"No," he said with an averted face.  "It happened--the winter you were in Florence.  I came
home and was met by the news that you were away. The sun dropped out of my skies."

She blushed suddenly and brightly.  Her husband had turned from his gloomy contemplation of
the lawn outside, on which a tiny Kerry cow was feeding.  He said to himself that she was more
beautiful in her mature womanhood than the day he married her.  She had been soft and flowing
even in her girlhood, with a promise of matronly beauty.  Now, with a greater amplitude, she
was not less but more gracious.  Her bronze hair which had the faintest dust upon it went back
from her temples and ears in lovely waves which no art could have produced.  It was live hair,
full of lights and shadows.  Her husband had said that it was like a brown Venetian glass with
powdered gold inside its brownness.  There were a few brown freckles on the milk-white neck.
Her eyes were kind and faithful and set widely apart: her nose straight and short: and she
had a delightful smile.

She came now and put her arms about his neck.  They were in curious contrast, she so soft,
fair and motherly: he slender and dark, with weary eyes and a look as though he had suffered.

"Shawn!" she said, "Shawn!" and there was a passionate tenderness in her voice, as she pressed
his head against her heart.

Then she let her arms fall and turned away, looking as though some sadness had clouded her joy.

"Poor Terence!" she said.

There was the same thought between them, but they left it unspoken. She had chosen Shawn O'Gara
in her own heart even while she was expected to marry Terence Comerford.

"Why do you talk of Terence now?" he asked.

"I have had a letter from Aunt Grace after all these years."  She held the letter towards him.

"She has forgiven you?" he asked, making no movement to take the letter.

"She is coming back to Inch.  She writes that Stella, her adopted daughter, is growing up.
She has forgiven us.  She is pleased that we named our son after poor Terence.  You remember
you were rather opposed to it, Shawn."

"I did not wish to be reminded of the loss of my friend at every moment," he said.  "The tragedy
was too new."

Still he showed no indication of taking the letter from her hand.

"Read it to me," he said, in his weary voice.  "I wonder how Stella will like Inch after Italy.
There is so much rain and cloud.  One has to be born to it to like it."

"When I was in Italy I simply longed for a day of Irish rain," Mary O'Gara said: "it is good
for us.  We need it.  We grow parched in the dry climates."

"It has held the secret of perpetual youth and beauty for you, Mary," her husband said, looking
at her with loving admiration.

She laughed and blushed.  She was not beyond blushing at a compliment even from her husband.

"We must make things as gay for the child as possible," she said.  Then she added:

"I wonder if Aunt Grace realizes that Terry is now a young man.  He seems épris with Eileen,
so I suppose he will not fall in love with Stella?"

Sir Shawn looked startled.

"I hope not," he said.  "Eileen seems to have him very securely in her chains."

Lady O'Gara frowned ever so slightly.  "I wish our children did not grow away from us so soon,"
she said.  "Terry might have continued a little longer being in love only with his mother."

Sir Shawn lifted his eyebrows in a manner which accentuated his foreign look.

"Jealous, Mary?" he asked.

"Not of Eileen.  She allures him, but, I come first."

"You would always have your place.  You are of the women who are adored by their sons.  You
would not care for Eileen for a daughter-in-law, though she has been almost your adopted daughter
these ten years back?"

"She would not suit Terry."

"She is very fond of you."

"Yes, I think she is fond of me."  Her voice was cold.

"I hardly know you, Mary, in this mood towards Eileen.  You are usually so sweetly reasonable."

"It is the privilege of a woman to be unreasonable sometimes."

The sunshine came back to her face, laughed in the depths of her eyes and brought a dimple
to either cheek.

"I suppose I am a little jealous of Terry," she said.  "You see he is very like you, Shawn.
And I am fond of Eileen, really.  Only, I suppose all mothers are critical of the girls their
sons fall in love with, especially if it is an only son.  It is odd how it has come suddenly
to Terry that Eileen is a pretty girl.  Of course he has only seen her in her vacations.  Sit
down now, Shawn, and I will read you Aunt Grace's letter."

He sat down obediently in the revolving chair in front of his desk and she came and stood by
him.  Her voice was a little disturbed as she read the letter.

"MY DEAR MARY,--You will be surprised to hear that I am coming back again to Inch.  The years
bring their dust, as some poet says: they certainly soften griefs and asperities.  When I left
Inch I was broken-hearted for my one boy.  It was a poisoning of the grief at that time to
know that you and Shawn O'Gara were going to be married.  I felt that you had forgotten my
beautiful boy, that his friend had forgotten him: but that I acknowledge now to have been a
morbid and unreasonable way of looking at things.  My boy never thought of any girl but you,
yet I could not expect you to go unmarried for his sake: indeed I would not have wished it.
You and Shawn must forgive that old unreasonable bitterness of mine, the bitterness of a mother
distraught by grief.

"I have left you alone all these years, but I have not been without knowledge of you.  I know
that your son is called Terence after my son. I appreciate that fact, which indicates to me
that you keep him in loving remembrance.

"After all these years I am suddenly weary for home, so weary that I wonder now how I could
have kept away so long.  Whether I shall end my days at Inch depends on Stella.  My wild experiment
of adopting this child, as some of my friends thought it at the time, has turned out very well.
Stella is a dear child.  I send you a photograph which hardly does her justice.  As she is
entirely mine she goes by my name, although her father was French.  I should like to say to
you that though I shall provide for Stella it will not be to your detriment.  I have a sense
of justice towards my kin.

"I trust to you to receive Stella and me in a manner which will prove that you have blotted
out any memories of the past that are otherwise than happy.

"Your affectionate cousin-aunt,
  "GRACE COMERFORD.

"PS.--Stella has something of your colouring."

"Here is the photograph," said Lady O'Gara, handing it to her husband. "Stella is very pretty,
is she not?"

He twisted his chair so that the light from the window might fall on the photograph.  The face
was in profile.  It was tilted delicately upwards.  There was a little straight nose, a round
chin, a mouth softly opened, one of those mouths which do not quite close.  The large eyes
looked upward; the hair was short and curled in little rings.

He looked at it and said nothing, but his eyes were tragic in the shadow.

"The profile is quite French," said Lady O'Gara.  "I remember the young man who I think must
have been Stella's father.  He was a lieutenant of Chasseurs.  He was killed in Algiers--afterwards.
I saw it in a newspaper about four years after our marriage.  He was going to be married when
he came to Inch.  His mother, who was as poor as a church mouse, had written a bitter complaint
to Aunt Grace that Gaston was about to marry a poor Irish girl, a governess, whose part he
had taken when he thought her unfairly treated.  I think Stella must be Gaston de St. Maur's
child."

"Odd, not leaving the child her own name," Sir Shawn said, handing back the photograph.

"Aunt Grace would want her so entirely for her own.  She always had a fierce way of loving.
If she had loved me more reasonably and less jealously she would not have quarrelled with me
as she did.  She was always rather terrible in anger."

She gathered together a bundle of letters which she had laid down on the table.

"I must go and write to Aunt Grace," she said.  "She must not wait for a letter telling her
how glad I shall be to see her back at Inch, how glad we shall all be.  She was very good to
me, Shawn."  She sent a wistful look towards her husband who sat with his back to her.  "If
she had been the aunt she called herself, instead of a somewhat remote cousin, she could not
have been kinder.  She treated us very generously, despite her anger at our marriage."

"You brought me too much," said Shawn O'Gara, not turning his head, "and it has prospered.
You should have brought me nothing but yourself.  You were a rich gift enough for any man."

Lady O'Gara looked well-pleased as she came and kissed the top of her husband's head, dusted
over its darkness with an effect of powder as contrasted with the dark moustache and dark eyes.

"I am glad for Terry's sake I did not," she said; and went out of the room.

"Mr. Kenny wishes to see your Ladyship," said a servant, meeting her in the hall.  Patsy, perhaps
by reason of his friendly aloofness, had come to be treated with unusual respect by the other
servants.  "He is at the hall-door.  He would not come inside."

She found Patsy, playing with Shot's son and daughter--they were the fourth generation from
"Ould Shot" on the gravel sweep.

"Come in, Patsy," she said, and led the way into an octagonal room, lit by a skylight overhead
and walled around with ancient books which were very seldom taken from their shelves.

"Sit down," she said, "and tell me what is troubling you."

Patsy sat down on the extreme edge of one of the chairs, which were upholstered in scarlet
damask.  He looked up at her with blinking eyes of worship, like the eyes of the dogs.  The
room, painted white above the bookshelves, was full of light.  He turned his cap about in his
hands.  Obviously there was something more here than the business on which he usually consulted
Lady O'Gara.

"'Tis," he began, "a little bit of a woman, an' a child, no bigger nor a robin an' as wake
as a wran...."

With this opening he began the story of the woman and child, who had come with the disreputable
person the afternoon before.  It appeared that Mr. Baker had deserted his wife and son, flinging
them the pots and pans with a scornful generosity.  He had apparently arrived at the possession
of money some way or other, and overtaking them on the road at some considerable distance away
he had bidden them, with threats, to take themselves out of his sight, since he had no further
use for them.

"He was full of drink," Patsy said, looking down.  "Your Ladyship, his tratement of them was
something onnatural.  She said she'd run away from him often, but he'd always found her when
she was doin' well an' earnin' for herself an' the child.  The people she lived with were often
kind and ready to stand by her, but sure, as she says, the kindest will get tired out.  He'd
broken the spirit in her, maybe, for she showed me his marks on the poor child. "It's good, Carsten," said she, "you can first go with
us and eat dinner "- you seemed to have reached their migration destination.; for they repented
at the words, and we went with the messenger back to the court. Dusk had already fallen considerably.
From the Ackerstueck on which we passed, one heard the sounds of short Brachvoegel that lay hidden
in the furrows, and sometimes Lapwing flew screaming in front of us, and in the pastures the
cattle stood in the dark, unrecognizable Masses together .-- We were on the way back, as it is done
in agreement, not a word another change, and as we were already reached in the dark on the hill,
took Anne Lene my hand. "Good night, Marx" she said, "forgive me, I'm tired, I must sleep, you
know, you come very soon once again out to us "with these words! they came in the front door,
and soon I heard she went up the stairs to her room.

I went to the old courtiers, in the company of the messenger in the oven for her Evening tea sat.
Wieb away for a moment to bring up a light Anne Lene; then they forced me to participate in their meal,
and I had to tell and tell . Let About it, it was getting late, so I did not go back to the city.
I asked my old friend, aufzuschuetten me a stray in her room, and strolled While this was happening,
out into the garden. As I entered the grove on the northern side came, I noticed that Anne
Lene was still light in her room. I leaned against a Tree and looked up. It seemed everything
in it still. Suddenly, however, was behind the windows of a strong brightness, which also shone
for a time in the bare bushes in the garden and then gradually disappeared. Overcame me, while
I stood in the dark, a vague concern, and without thinking to myself a long time, I went through the back
doors into the house and up the stairs to Anne Lene room.

The door was ajar.

Anne Lene sat at a table with their feet against the stove, in which a bright fire was burning.
Under the string of a parcel which on her lap was, she pulled out a letter, she unfolded it carefully,
and seemed to read it. After a while she moved her hand a little, so that the paper from the
flame of the next She was taken standing on the table light. Her face wore while such a Expression
of hopelessness, that I involuntarily exclaimed: "Anne Lene, what are you doing?"

They sat quietly, without looking at me, and had burned the letter in her hand.

"They are cold," she said, "they will be hot!"

I was now entered into the room and had placed myself next to her chair. Suddenly, as if driven by
a rapid decision, she got up and put both hands firmly around my Neck, she wanted to talk to
me, but her tears burst forth irresistibly, and thus pressuring her head against my chest and
cried for a long time when I could not do anything as they keep still in my arms. "No, Marx,"
she said at last, and struggled to their give voice to a firmer tone,
"I promise you, I do not want it on longer Wait.

"

"Did you see him for so loved, Anne Lena?"

She sat up and looked at me as if it needed to meditate on this question. Then she said slowly: "I do
not know it - that's all the same."

I stayed a while with her, and she gradually became calmer. You promised me courage to take me
and our mother's sake, she wanted to work, they wanted in the small business the old Wieb the
initial learning of the state budget so that it once as a housekeeper
can earn their bread.

She saw it almost sympathetically to their little hands, that beauty they wanted to sacrifice
the necessities of life. Only to return to the city I could not to move. "No, not people!" she
said, looking at me pleadingly. "Let me here Marx, as long as I still allowed, but often come
out to us again. "

So I left it that night, but I went frequently from now on the way over the fens after Staatshof
.-- Anne Lene seemed to want to keep their promise, and I found it more Times the cream in the milk
room or on the butter tub, where they alternate with the old Wieb
led the punch, and yes, they did not take the butter in the tray for
kneading to do, just as she had seen of her old nurse, they also seemed
not to To remember that behind all this in secret, put the finishing
touches on their work.

But we easily felt that participation was in these things only an external, an effort from which they
soon had to rest in solitude.

It was already in the hot summer period when some young people of our city with her sisters to make
friends and a picnic after the addition Staatshof wanted. I was asked a mediation with Anne Lene,
and with some difficulty I got her consent .-- Sun for a Sunday afternoon, the wild walks
of the garden were once again cleaned by People alive, and we saw between the bushes, the
white dresses and colorful sashes the girls. The old Wieb had to look out the big coffee pot,
which were then brought baskets unpacked and served everything opposite from the front door
to the garden. When coffee was over, the best climber rose among us in the top of the two old Linden,
who stood by the side of the gate, as each end of a vast Dew took up with him. Soon, between
the highest branches of a swing was festgeknuepft, and the girls were invited inside to prevail.
"Come on, Anne Lene," cried a young, robust-looking man, as he looked
down almost pity on her fine figure, "sit into it, I will even make
a proper motion "!

Anne Lene thanked him, but a lively black-eyed girl could be found willing; Claus Peters and
soon swung the swing, until the little Julia like a bird between the branches and finally sat crying
pleading for mercy .-- Claus Peters was the son of a rich brewer, and it was said that his father
would buy him the Staatshof once it spread to come, and set him a brilliant economy. He also appeared
in his mind is to be considered even as the future owner, for when we later accompanied by the Hofmann
walked around between the buildings, he found something to blame everywhere and spoke of improvements
which would have to be made here, while the old Marten with a discontented
growl nebenherging.

It was late gradually. When we returned from our look around, we found the Girls gathered outside
the front door and Anne Lene among them.

Two of them had their hands caught when they could only with tender
violence here be detained.

"Yes, if we would have music!" said one .-- "music!" Peters said, as he put on his thick Goldberlocken
his Clock of the bag. "You will soon have music; in half an hour I'm back! "

He had come on horseback, and called you into the house after the Hofmann. "Bring me the brown,
Marten;!

But need your legs "The old man muttered something to himself, but he did but how he was told,
and soon Peters galloped away to the gate. The rest of us went into the house and visited above
the dance hall. We came to meet a sullen air, as we the door the old state room had opened.

The goldgebluemten tapestries were solved by the moisture and hung partially torn on the walls, everywhere
still stood out the places where the ancient times Familienportraete had hung. We went down
again and carried a table and some in Gartenbaenke the empty room,
then we opened the windows through which it out of the standing Hereinzudunkeln
trees started already, and the girls covered up and danced together.

"Wait!" I cried, "we want to make a chandelier!" For the top saw on the ceiling I was still the
staple, at once the crystal crown hung over the banquet table of the House had. Soon, two strips
of wood were found and nailed upon the other crosswise.

Anne Lene went with the girl into the garden, and out of the window, I saw them the Flowers of
the Jasminbueschen and the red blooming Himbeerstraeuchen broke. "Pluck only, "said Anne Lene,
as one of the girls looked around quizzically at her," it is blooming here yet . Is an island "But
she stood by herself, she picked nothing came .-- After a while all back up and set about my chandelier
after another one with white and bewinden to red flowers, and then, having secured at each end
of a candle and lighted was the work of art was hung. The few lights could not elucidate the wide
space; But outside was already up and the moon shone through the
window and it was graceful, as the flowers light hovered in the middle
of the deserted rooms and how the fragrance was aroused when danced
by the girls below.

Suddenly we heard a horse and a loud auftraben Crack of the whip.

"Here comes the music!" it was said, and all crowded to the windows
.--, outside under the trees Peters held, a small thin figure stuck
behind him on the horse, violin and bow in the hand.

Look a bit closer I knew well that it was the old Drees-Schneider, a lot of dexterous Males, which
soon provided for the needle, sometimes with the fiddle bow of his maintenance, and to the hard
times had taught to put up with some rude fun .-- "Well, Drees, playing on one, "said Peters."
Do your compliments to the ladies! "But the old man and the Left hand from the saddle and
rested his violin under his chin and touched the horse with the Peters Spores that it turned down,
and the old man hesitated and reached back quickly after the saddle.

Anne Lene stood before me, I saw in the dim light, like the redness of her in the temple went up.

"Drees,"
I cried, "Come down, Drees" - The old man made hinabzuklimmen Institute, but the rider laughed
and gave his horse the spurs. "Marten," said Anne Lene to Hofmann, consider "the ! Horse, Marten
!"--" Oho, Anne Lene "said Peters, but he made no attempt yet, his
continue jokes, and let it happen that Martin helped guide the old
Drees.

A moment later all were up in the hall, and after Peter the older musicians his fear was paid for
by a few glasses of wine, put this on a small drum and began aufzustreichen his pieces. The pairs
competed, and soon our flower light by the vertebrate The dancers' moves back and forth. I was
looking for Anne Lene, but she had gone unnoticed be, and as for
me no dancer was uebriggeblieben, I also left the room, in the belief
that they found at the bottom of the old courtiers.

When I went into the servants' room, I saw, however, only the old Wiebe, who eagerly at their Knitting
worked. She pulled a needle out of the bib and disturbed that in
the lamp, the rather large room lit up very poorly.

Then she looked up at me and said, "You are so powerful, funny, Marx!

Claus Peters played well already in Staatshof the Lord? "

"He will be soon enough," I replied, "that is not change!"

The old woman was silent for a while, and her thoughts seemed to be from the old possessions of
the family added to the last descendants of the same business. "Marx," she said, by the knitting
laid on the table, "why are you so long been away"

"What could I be able to change Wieb?"

"And the two long years - if only the Ungluecksmensch would not come!" she continued, like talking
to himself.

"It was at that time still the rich heiress, that means that she was so in people's mouths, but went even
as the old woman into eternity, is nothing left as was the heavy
mortgages.

God mend it! Now the Court should not even be sold .-- fair enough, Marx, not because of me,
Martin and I have to help us through the remaining few Years. "

"It's probably the best way, Wiebe," I said, "maybe there is still a remnant left over for Anne
Lene, so that it is not entirely destitute. "

The old woman wiped her eyes with her apron.

"It is cruel," she said ettelnd head shu, "As a family!"

Rang out from above the scrape of the dancers, in the adjoining stall,
I heard every day At this time, the courtier the cart and other equipment
for the night at their place .

Bring

When I looked up, Lene Anne stood in the door. She was pale, but she nodded kindly to ? Us back
and said, "Will you not dance, Marx I've been up, the small Juliane
looking up with her brown eyes already in every corner!

"

"You're joking, Anne Lene; what I care about Julie?"

"No, no, Marx Take care;! Claus Peter's been dancing for the second dance with her."

"But, Anne Lene" - I went up to her.

"Will you dance with me?"

"Why not?"

"But a minuet, Anne Lene!"

"A minuet, Marx - And," she added, smiling, "not true, may be there friend Simon?"

When we wanted to go, took the old Anne Lene's hand. "Child," she said anxiously, "the doctor
has forbidden it to you! "

But Anne Lene replied: "Oh, good Wieb, it does not hurt, and I know that better than the Doctor!"
And my desire to dance with her was so great that I liked this insurance left.

When we were up in the great hall, I went to the corner to the little
Drees and ordered a minuet.

He turned about in his books, but he had the old dance no more in it, we had to content ourselves with
a waltz. Claus Peter came to the table, poured it's glass and joined with him. "Situated Play,
Drees" he cried, "but not scratch so, there are fine people at the dance. "

The old man put his glass to his mouth.

"Well, Mr. Peters," he said as he held the young people with his
little sharp eyes saw, "so that we may go well on our old days!"

"Why should it not go well with us, Drees? Peters said, by the small Juliane hand and offered
himself to her at the head of the dance column.

I went to Anne Lene in the series. The old man began to remove his violin and nodded to us friendly
with, as we passed by .-- the dance in it I still believe now that
he was then admirably played, because he was not clumsy in his art,
and recalling some small kindness he received from us, he might now
try his best.

We had long danced together, Anne Lene and me. But
it was not forgotten you, I felt soon, they still danced as usual,
it went down so easily between the other pairs; Her eyes shone, she
smiled, and her mouth was open, so that the white teeth behind the
thin red lips were visible, and I believed it to feel like the Lebenswaerme
streamed through their young members. Soon I saw nothing of all that
is around us moved, and I was alone with her, this solid-sounding
violin strokes had us from the world Divorced, she was missing, inaccessible
far behind.

Then we paused. At the open window where we stood, the
moonlight flowed with the poor Candlelight to an indefinite dusk together.
Anne Lene was breathing next to me, they seemed unusually pale. "Do
we stay?" I asked her.

"Why, Marx? It dances are so beautiful today!"

"But
you do not it is compatible!"

"Oh, yes - What does it matter!"

We
danced again, as she spoke the last words. We danced for a long time.
But Anne Lene by hand after the heart attack and struggled with the
trembling breath, I asked her with me to go down into the garden.
She nodded kindly, and we left the room following her room to fetch
a shawl for her .-- I felt good back then that they Concern for Anne
Lene's health had led me not only to that request, for as the dark,
we went down stairs to the hall, I felt as if I am happy with a stolen
treasure escaped into the open. "Come and sit down," she said.  "Let me help you off with your cloak.
You will have breakfast?  What a long journey for you!"

Mrs. Comerford allowed herself to be put into the softest of the easy chairs.  A look of gratification,
of pleasure, came to her face.  She allowed Lady O'Gara to take off her hat and long travelling
cloak, to unlace her shoes.

"You were always a kind creature," she said, "and it is nice to be home again.  How beautiful
the cloudy skies are!  Many and many a time during those years I have wanted grey skies.  I've
been sick even for a whole wet day.  Do you think, Mary, that if we Westerners get to Heaven
we will want a wet day now and again?"

So the old resentment had gone.  How strange it was after all the grief and estrangement to
have Aunt Grace talking like this.  It encouraged Lady O'Gara, sitting on the floor at Mrs.
Comerford's feet, to pat the foot from which she had drawn off the shoe, with a tender furtive
caress.

"You'd better get up, Mary.  I hear Clinch coming.  You have hardly changed from the girl of
twenty-five years ago.  Of course you are plumper, more matronly.  You have a boy of twenty-one."

Clinch came in with the bag, followed by Mrs. Clinch with a tea-tray, smiling broadly.

"The young lady said she'd have a bath before her breakfast, ma'am," she said, and there was
a radiance about her old face which had not been there for many a day.

"Breakfast--we had breakfast in the train.  Miss Stella cannot want breakfast."  Mrs. Comerford
smiled as she said it.  "She made a very good breakfast in the train."

"She's young and the young want food.  'Tis a good day that's in it, ma'am, to see you home
again--with such a beautiful young lady too. She'll make the house lively.  The first thing
she did was to fling her arms about Shot's neck,--Lady O'Gara's dog, ma'am.  For all he's a
proud, stand-off dog, he licked her face."

"Now, don't spoil Miss Stella.  Every one spoils her, so I suppose there's no use expecting
you to be the exception."

"She brings her love with her," said Mrs. Clinch.  "She's so delighted with all she sees, and
making friends with every one.  They'll be won over by her: even old Tom Kane will give her
the key of his garden, as he calls it, before she's an hour in the place.  She'll be into his
strawberry beds that he's so jealous about, you'll see."

Mrs. Clinch went off.  Lady O'Gara poured out a cup of tea, remembering, over all the years,
that Mrs. Comerford liked only a little sugar.  She found her slippers and put them on and
brought a footstool for feet to rest upon.  She was thinking that this Stella, the young adopted
daughter, explained the change in the woman before her.  Mrs. Comerford had grown much softer.
She was still a remarkable-looking woman, the wreck of stately beauty.  In her black garments,
which fell about her in flowing lines, she had the air of a priestess.  Her age showed in her
thinness, which was almost emaciation, and her face was wrinkled and heavily lined.  Yet her
smile was more ready than Lady O'Gara remembered and her eyes quieter.  They had been very
blue eyes once upon a time--her son had had such blue eyes--now, they had faded almost to lavender,
and they were almost gentle.  Yet there was something in the face, some suggestion of burnt-out
fires, which forbade the idea of a gentle nature, and the lips were too thin for softness.

"Am I a wreck, Mary?" she asked.  "Yes, I know I am.  Some one took me for a Duchess the other
day, addressing me as 'Your Grace.'  Italy has dried up my skin.  It will hardly revive at
my time of life.  But I am happy: you cannot imagine how Stella makes for happiness.  Stella
and age between them have broken me down.  A child could play with me."

She laughed as she said it.  Grace Comerford had not laughed much in the old days.  Mary had
adored her, with an adoration tinged with awe. She had always felt in those days that it would
be an awful thing to offend Aunt Grace.  She had offended her and it had been awful.

"I am longing to see Stella," she said.

"She is very joyous.  I was becoming morose when I found her--like a rogue elephant.  I was
wrong, Mary, to make such a grievance of your marriage.  You were a good child to me, and you
would have pleased me if you could.  I know better now than to be angry with you for caring
more for Shawn O'Gara than for my son.  You should have told me at the time.  You shouldn't
have let me believe that you cared for Terence. Was I an ogre?  Perhaps I was.  I must have been."

"I wanted to please you dreadfully in those days.  You had been everything to me."

"You and Terence were everything to me.  Still--I should not have been so unreasonable as to
expect you to marry Terence to please me when you liked Shawn O'Gara better.  I ought to have
known that love does not grow up like that.  You and Terence were almost brother and sister."

"Yes," said Lady O'Gara.  "We were so used to each other.  I was eighteen when I first saw
Shawn and we fell in love at first sight." She blushed, with a startling effect of youth. 
"Terence and I were like brother and sister.  It would not have worked.  We were very fond
of each other, but no more than that.  You were wrong when you thought Terence would have cared."

She had expected some disclaimer, remembering Mrs. Comerford's bitter anger because her son
had been supplanted by his friend, even while he was yet in the world; but no disclaimer came.

"Yes, I was wrong.  I see it now.  I ought to have come back long ago and said I was wrong.
I could not bring myself to do it, and--there were other reasons.  It is very good to come
back and to see you so bonny, Mary, and to feel that we may live in love and peace as long
as I am here."

She drank her tea and looked round the room, with a sigh as though her heart rested on what
she saw.

"You have made the old room very sweet, Mary," she went on, "and you have remembered my tastes.
Dear me, see those old things on the chimney-piece!  Those crockery dogs,--how fond Terence
was of them when he was a child!  And that piece of agate, and the Rockingham lambs!  I had
almost forgotten them."

"You, had better come over to Castle Talbot to lunch," Lady O'Gara said.  "I want you to see
my boy.  He has just passed out of Sandhurst."

"A soldier?  How strange that I should have had to ask!  I left your letters unanswered, but
I always read them.  That was how I knew that you had called your boy after my son."

"Yes, Terence has chosen to be a soldier, for some years, at least. There is not very much
doing now.  After a few years his father thinks he might take to politics."

"I want to see him.  And I want you to see my girl."

She glanced towards the door as though she expected it to open.

"Eileen Creagh is with us.  You remember her father, Anthony Creagh. He came here once or twice
in old days.  She has lived with us for a long time.  Terry was always at school.  It would
have been lonely for me without Eileen."

"Yes, I remember I did not like Anthony Creagh because I thought he came for your sake.  He
married a fair girl, very unlike you.  I've forgotten her name."

"Eileen is very pretty, like her mother.  Beautiful soft silver-gold hair and greyish blue
eyes: she is very gentle."

"Characterless?"

Lady O'Gara smiled ever so slightly.  "Oh, she has character, I think."

"No one will look at her when Stella is by.  You will see.  She has no animation; I know her
kind.  By the way, you have Patsy Kenny still with you?  You told me about Patsy in the letters
I did not answer."

"Still with us.  He is an institution--like the Shots.  I have a Shot still--the great-grandson
of old Shot.  I don't know what we should do without Patsy.  He has such a wonderful way with
the horses,--with all animals, indeed."

"He'll adore Stella.  She's so fearless with animals.  Many a fright she gave me when she was
a child.  But the animals, even when they were savage with others, never hurt her.  There was
an awful day when we found her with the boarhound puppies at Prince Valetti's Villa in her
arms, and the mother looking on well-pleased.  She was a savage brute to other people.  The
Prince was ready to shoot her if she had turned nasty with Stella: but there was no occasion.
Stella scrambled through the barrier when we called her name."

"Is she like a French girl?"

"No: why should she be?"

"I suppose I was wrong.  I thought she was the child of Gaston de St. Maur, who used to visit
us here."

"Her mother was Irish," Mrs. Comerford said.

"And she is like her mother?"

Before Mrs. Comerford could answer there came a knocking as of knuckles on the door.

"Come in, my darling," Mrs. Comerford said, her face lighting up.

A charming girlish face looked in at the open door.

"May I?  Is it Lady O'Gara whom my dearest Mamma so greatly loves?"

There was the slightest foreign intonation in the voice,--something of deliberate utterance,
as though English was not the language of the speaker.

The girl came into the room and towards them.  She was charming.  Her hair curled in rings
of reddish brown on her little head.  Her eyes were grey with something of brown in the iris:
her eyebrows strongly marked.  She had a straight beautiful little nose, lips softly opening,
a chin like that of the Irish poet's "Mary Donnelly," "round as a china cup."  There was something
softly graceful about her as she came into the room.  She looked down, then up again.  Her
eyes,--were they grey? They were brown surely, almost gold.  Her little head was held as though
she courted a caress.

"I am so glad you have come back, Stella," Lady O'Gara said, fascinated straight off by this
charming vision.

"I wonder how Mamma stayed away so long," Stella returned.  "The sweet house, the beautiful
grey country."  She took Lady O'Gara's hand and kissed it lightly; yet with an air of reverence,--"the
beloved people."

"The country will not prove too grey for you, I hope, Stella," Lady O'Gara said, feeling touched
and pleased by the girl's air of homage. "My husband's mother, who was an Italian, said that
the grey skies made her weep when first she came to Ireland.  They were so unlike Italian skies."

"I must be Irish then," said the girl, "for I adore them.  Even when it rains I shall not weep."

"She has something of your colouring, Mary; don't you think so?" Mrs. Comerford asked.

"Yes, perhaps--more golden."

She was feeling surprised at herself.  This girl made more appeal to her than Eileen Creagh
whom she had had with her from childhood.  This girl touched some motherly chord in her which
Eileen had never awakened.  She wanted to stroke her dear curls, to be good to her.  Yet she
had been telling herself all those years, that she had no need for a daughter, having Terry.

CHAPTER VII

BRADY'S BULL

The meeting between Eileen Creagh and Stella Comerford brought the flying dimple to Lady O'Gara's
cheek.  She watched them as though they were young children meeting in the shy yet uncompromising
atmosphere of the nursery.

Stella was inclined to be friendly and then drew back, chilled by something she detected in
Eileen's manner.  Eileen was indifferently polite.

Terry and his father were out when the party arrived for luncheon, but they returned very soon
afterwards.  Lady O'Gara's attention was otherwise absorbed so that she did not notice the
sudden delighted friendliness in Terry towards Stella nor the quick withdrawal into sullenness
which spoilt Eileen's looks for the luncheon-hour.

Lady O'Gara was wondering about her husband.  Why should he have looked so startled when his
eye fell on Stella?  He had known that she was coming.  To Lady O'Gara's anxious eye Sir Shawn
looked pale.  He had been pale of late, with curious shadows about his face, but when she had
asked him if he was not feeling well he had answered with an air of lightness that he felt
as well as ever he had felt.

At the luncheon table he sat with his back to the light.  The persistence of those shadows
in his face worried her loving heart.  She wondered if Mrs. Comerford saw a great change in
him.  It ought to have been a very happy occasion.  Mrs. Comerford had met Shawn with an air
of affection mingled with deprecation, as though she asked pardon for the old unreason.  If
she saw that the years had changed him she made no sign.

"I have stayed away a long time from you and Mary," she said.  "I had made it difficult for
myself to come back: but I have wanted to come back.  Now I hope we shall remain neighbours
to the end."

Sir Shawn had not responded as he ought to have done.  He had worn a queer look.  After a while
his wife had found the proper adjective for it: his eyes were haunted.  He might have seen
a ghost.  It distracted her from her talk across the table with Mrs. Comerford, happy talk
of friends long parted and re-united, full of "Don't you remember?" and "Have you forgotten?":
arrears of talk in which so much had to be explained, so many fates elucidated.  It might have
been so happy if only Shawn had not worn that odd look.

Once Lady O'Gara thought she caught his eyes fixed with a gloomy intentness on the group of
young people at the other end of the table. She glanced that way, and the ready smile came.
Terry was making himself very agreeable to the two pretty girls.  It was obvious, even at a
glance, that Eileen had little chance against the new-comer's vivacity.  She sat with her lips
pursed a little and something of gloom on her face.  Terry, between his sallies with Stella,
who was at once shy and bright, full of those charming glances out of the eyes which were grey
at one moment, golden brown at another,--sent now and again a tenderly apologetic look Eileen's
way, trying to draw the sulking beauty into the conversation.  There was nothing for Shawn
to be gloomy about in this little comedy.  Terry was always so sweetly amiable.

In the days that followed the comedy unfolded itself.  Stella was very often at Castle Talbot,
or they were at Inch.  Terry was evidently drawn towards Stella, while loyally endeavouring
to keep up his former attitude towards Eileen.  If Eileen wished to keep him she went the worst
possible way about it, for she sulked, and sulkiness did not become her.  Her fair skin took
on a leaden look.  She repulsed Stella's advances till Stella was hurt and vexed.

"Eileen will not be friends with me," she complained to Lady O'Gara. "She is so cold.  That
lovely pale hair of hers I took it in my hands one day when it was undone, and it was cold
as ice.  Her heart is like her hair.  Why will she not like me?"

Why not, indeed?  Apart from the fact that Stella chattered, pretty chatter like the singing
of a bird, and was so quickly intelligent about everything, and so interested in the new life
that the slower Eileen was rather left out of things, her attitude towards Eileen was most
disarming.  She admired her greatly and was evidently quite unaware of her own good looks.
She tried to win her over with gifts, which Eileen accepted, while she was not propitiated.

"She will not like me," Stella complained with a flash of tears in her eyes, "if I was to give
her my heart she would not like me."

"You should not have given her your seed-pearls," said Lady O'Gara. "It is too valuable a gift
to pass from one girl to another."

It was beginning to dawn on her that Eileen was greedy and selfish. Perhaps she had had intuitions
of it when Eileen had disappointed her. Eileen was only friendly to Stella when she wanted
something.  Once she had obtained it she relapsed into her former coldness.  Lady O'Gara realized
that Eileen had always been greedy.  She had laid Terry under heavy toll for small attentions
and such gifts as he might give her. Eileen's incessant eating of chocolate had made Lady O'Gara
wonder how she could give so good an account of herself at meal-times.  She smoked--it was
a new fashion of which Lady O'Gara did not altogether approve--a cigarette now and again and
Terry supplied the gold-tipped, scented kind which Eileen took from a cigarette case of platinum
with her name in turquoise at the corner.  The cigarette case was a new possession.  Lady O'Gara
supposed that it came from Terry.  She had not asked.  A violet scent, so good that on its
first introduction Lady O'Gara had cried out that some one was wearing wet violets, now always
heralded Miss Creagh's coming into a room.

There were some things which had not come from Terry.  When Lady O'Gara had noticed them Eileen
had said carelessly that they were given her by Robin Gillespie, the son of the doctor at Inver,
and a doctor himself in the Indian Army.  Anthony Creagh and his wife had an overflowing quiverful.
Lady O'Gara made excuses for the girl who must have had it in her blood to do without.  Still,
Robin Gillespie, the doctor's son at Inver, could not have much to spare, but apparently he
had given Eileen a good many trinkets.

"When does Terry join his regiment?" Sir Shawn asked his wife one day with a certain sharpness.

"Not till September."

"And it is now August.  A pity he should waste his time philandering."

"Does he philander?"

Lady O'Gara's voice had a hurt sound in it.  She found nothing amiss in her one child.

"He philandered with Eileen till Stella came.  Now apparently he inclines to Stella.  He mustn't
play fast and loose with girls."

"It sounds so ugly, Shawn.  Terry is incapable of such a thing,--as incapable as you yourself.
He is not the flirting sort.  He is just a simple boy."

There was something piteous in her voice.

Her husband lifted her face by the chin till he looked down into her eyes. Lamberg was in the theater,
and it seemed as if speaking from the scene down to him alone. A certain amount of drag on Fatigue,
blurred the loveliness of the character and gave her an unwelcome train of melancholy. In an annoyed
Lamberg. After the performance he expected Franziska at the stage entrance. Her guilty smile
made his lecture obsolete. There was something sad about its like on a winter rose, which must
shun the open window. Lamberg took her to his House hosted it, and his unexpected heat took
Franziska. It was a beautiful summer night, they walked in the garden, joking and philosophizing. Finally
she told him that the Armansperg Prince, Heir, owner of a hundred million fortune, Mr Günderau
on, Weilburg Castle Gamming to have stopped her hand. His relatives, disconsolate over put this
decision, every effort to prevent him from running, and she herself was through their machinations
and intrigue sentenced to involuntary suffering. Lamberg mentioned that he knew by sight the
prince, one of the Armanspergschen goods was far from his country home in the mountains. He
estimated it to sixty, but determination to trust him enough for a family revolution to be able
to make head.

Once again forgotten who opposed the carefree soul to God, for the sake of Eros again: short hours.
He may count the hours, hiding his face serene, when the morning dawn, then he will send to sleep,
and the sober sun filled him with grief so much Pleasure that was. "Who knows if I love you all,"
said Frank, "perhaps want to 'convince me I only whether a real man's heart is in you. "-" Can
you achieve this certainty, "he said in his always thoughtful article on distance and they
again: "blood and breath are already a bit if you can feel it. Hide yourself in not so your cool
because you're not as strong as you stand. "

Shortly after that in the higher circles of society appeared a man who Riccardo Troyer called
it, was considered by many to be a Dane, by others as an Italian, and its wealth by a lavish
lifestyle seemed unquestionable. It boasted his seductive manners, and the impression of its
body structure is confirmed by extending liability infirmity hardly diminished, it said, and he
limps fact, as Lord Byron was, but, as Lord Byron, while an accomplished rider, swimmer and
fencer. Whom the reference to a romantic predict genius of a hundred years of fame did not want
to, which was assured that Riccardo Troyer in modern coinage to do nothing could remain, as it
by exchanges and mining speculation large scale had come to his fortune. Legends of adultery and kidnapping,
which A suspicious value is usually adhered was distributed agile, young of suicides Women and
girls by means of water, poison, lintel and coal gas, and the upper region of humanity, which is
so suspicious acts against a local tails of last year was blinded before that the last foreign fashion,
worn by a magician without equal was, not even the news of all sorts of daring financial transactions
and exchange transactions could affect the glory of the stranger.

At the time when the rumor the name of Franziska's combine careful
with the adventurer began Lamberg stayed for weeks in the country.

He had encouraged the friends to visit him, and the end of August because of the annoying crowd
of holidaymakers had already disappeared, met every one. Cajetan had come three days before the others,
from Rome and stayed with Lamberg, Borsati Hadwiger and took lodgings in a charming little
hotel down the lake, a Wegviertelstunde Lamberg away from Villa. It was one afternoon, the friends
sat drinking tea in the garden house had been under huge maple trees, and Cajetan just told that he
at Countess Seewald, the sister of Prince Armansperg, made a visit and Frank saw and volatile have spoken,
as they themselves came up the meadow, in their splendid upright posture, to see with the blue
silk cap and the colorful hat like a walking flower. She welcomed the friends, they sat down to drink
tea and chatted in the coveted vividly excited Art wants to hide, internal unrest and haste. "Now
what? So will you leave us? " Borsati asked with a tender reproach. Frank replied softly, "You shall
have a souvenir I have. "-" We have always, "Borsati gallantly assured. She let the memory
full rest look in his eyes and repeated: "You shall have a keepsake from me."

She had already taken leave, volatile seemed to claim as an opportunity, as returned they go back
and said, "you want to be together again here today in a year? Do
you want it?

I promise you, come. "The friends looked at each other in wonder on, but Frank continued: "Today
is the first of September, - that is the same throughout the year Days I'm back, and before
me you will probably miss. Let the conspiracy, let's do it like the brothers in the tale,
says yes and I'm happier away from you. "

"Must it really be on the same day," asked Cajetan.

"Certainly, only then it is binding," she said.

The promise was made by everyone in her hand and she left. All of you looked affected and sympathetic
to, as it hurried down almost fly quickly to wreathe path. She drove the next day back to the city,
and hardly a week had passed, it brought all the papers the news that Frank, the beautiful actress,
had disappeared with Riccardo Troyer. The news caused consternation very reason, because the
marriage with Franziska Prince Armansperg considered imminent, and the daring of such a connection
had wanted to forget. It was known to say that the prince prevents beside himself, and only with
difficulty had been to let the police track the adventurer. He was on the event is not in at
least been prepared, some warnings he had received contempt, but by the Hour after he retired
from the world and lived alone.

While all this was happening, Lamberg received a package and a letter Franziska. The Touched the letter
occurred twist of fate and not a word was as short as he ever could only be. "I give to you,
George Vincent, Henry, Rudolf and Cajetan goodbye and to commemorate the golden mirror of Aphrodite,
to me an expensive and now deceased friend has given. I told you once about it, bad as it seems
to me, otherwise you would come to watch the wonderful thing. The mirror is to include anyone and
everyone, no a privilege to have it because you give me all the same value and a happy feeling
for me is to know him as a symbol of my love and gratitude in your possession. Good-bye, do
not forget your promise, and sometimes thinks of your creation, your sister, your ever faithful
Frank. "

The mirror was in fact an excellent beautiful piece. He was in about the year 1820 Ruins of a
Cretan palace was found, came in the famous collection Diatopulos and fifty years later came
into the hands of the Duke of Casale. In 1905, after the death of the Duke was to pay off its
debt burden, the mirror along with many other Art objects for auction
in Paris, and there he had the unknown admirer Franziska acquired.

The friends agreed then that each of them a mirror for a period of three months to house under
one roof. Would not they be men of taste and spirit have been Franziska's administration would
have easily can cause nuisance. No one had security; to whom the Turn came, which was put out prior knowledge
of the illusory his right. Commonly makes the possession of other things, here, where the profit
has caused the loss, holding uncertainty slippage in the back always good double life. Frank had
the gift in a they were granted, it would grow no concern for others, and if the chosen one the
peace of indifference is not without a long time.

Thus, the receiving gifts and Beraubtwerden the same amount of significant pain.

Frank remained as lost. Among her numerous acquaintances, no one had heard of her, and the holidays,
they made the theater had long been exceeded. It was said that the prince Armansperg I can do
about Riccardo Troyer extensive research, leading to a questionable results were out. Gradually,
it also was silent. In July, the Hadwiger some time in Paris and heard that Troyer during the
Spanish-Moroccan War as an agent of an English gun factory have been active in Madrid that he fraud
been committed and driven out of the country is. Hadwin could not forget he was not able to
find the Irrevocable.

He resented the good fortune his mind was darkened, and to released from the mind games to
be, he worked day and night.

So went on the small and the great life. In July Lamberg was referring to his villa in the mountains. With
a cook, the servant Emil and a monkey, he left the city. The monkeys had recently by a Dutch
merchant and was formally received in love with him.

It was Baam or a young chimpanzee who was the size of an eight-year-old boy. Through the conversations
with which even reckoned with animal he gained insight into the fullness of great humor, of which
of itself be taken seriously man is surrounded.

In the last week of August arrived Hadwiger, Borsati and Cajetan. They lived this time Both in the
guest house on the lake, as Cajetan wished not to be favored and the lovely Baroque Hotelchen as many
conveniences offered as Lamberg bachelor's home.

What was decided on the mirror

Seven Lakes, nestled between rocks and forests have a dark, protected by friendly links luminous
the other could see the eye of the viewer by each dominant summit.

Ways moved uphill and down, solid white way, cut, and girded the elongated Villages, accompanied
noisy streams, were lost in fields hatched, bridges and footbridges meandering and climbed
up to the powerful shaped mountains. Here's a garden, next to a wilderness, as a ruin, over
a huge wall in the north of bare stone giants, in the south a raised main glacial, so concluded
the image that harmoniously in the manner was great in all.

The glacier far compared to the entire expanse of a valley, a vast plateau, and a deep cut behind
the plateau away from him, was the Villa Lamberg. The moon in the sky, and through the open window,
eager voices speaking invaded the Silence of the landscape caused by the simplistic lines of the night,
ghostly removed appeared. The dinner was over, Borsati, Cajetan and Lamberg sat at the table,
Hadwiger in evident excitement went back and forth. He resented the friends that her so indifferently
were - because today was the day for which Frank had all been asked to rendezvous. She had not
come, and there was little reason to hope that they would come, Now, in the hours of the night.
Who knows where it is, who knows if she is alive, he thought sadly. Then he pondered how he could
so as to get the conversation to the considerations to direct that bothered him so painful. Had
he but during the period of one year that day, contrary lived, nothing
more, and the Word was Franziska him as both parties so irrevocably
appeared that no doubt mingled with his confidence.

Now it was evening, and it was a day passed like many other days before him. Why they do not
speak of her? he thought, and it is adjustable or cold?

What they call entertainment or that heart smoothness, it makes me often so strange?

He stopped in front of the golden mirrors are based on his rounds in recent weeks Lamberg was
returned, and watched in sullen loneliness the miracle of old.

It was a circular disc of weary gold, she was with raised arms of the Figure of a goddess taken
standing on a deliciously crafted turtle. The back the disc was the figure of a young man, apparently
a Narzissos, in the casual fine Art was sitting on a rock, two long
rods in the right arm and barely a hint of just gazed with a few strokes,
the outlines of his image engraved water.

Low on the edge was Greek letters in the word Leäna carved, which might be the name of the courtesan,
that once the mirror had owned as property. The whole work of art was about two hand lengths
high.

Cajetan got up, went to Hadwiger and put his arm on jovial gesture on his shoulder. "The female
figure is unique here," he said. "You really bears, each individual Muscle of her body with.
Do not you, Henry?

Here it is in the ease Movement, how to hold something, the possession
of the forces increased.

"

"It is a noble form," confirmed Lamberg, "to measure and how the old things have worked, you
have only the appearance turtle. What subtlety! Since no missing the train Nature but they are
mainly the idea of ​​a pedestal. "

"One is convinced that the load weighs not for that tank," said Cajetan.

Me, "seems at times," interjected Borsati, "that the Face of Aphrodite by a pale Gloss of the
color of the other cast takes off. "

Lamberg replied that he had also been observed. "But I do not know just what this, the Time has
inflicted, "he continued. "It is known however, that the sculptor Silanion Silver mixed in the ore
from which was the face of Jocasta to the paler shades death to suggest. And to express the rage
of Athanas, Aristonidas iron did in the Mass, which he produced a characteristic rust color.
Does it not look as if the Features of the Venus of an imaginary moon were irradiated? "

Hadwin, who showed little interest for this discussion, to look after
the Clock.

Lamberg began the view on and smiled. "Why are you smiling?" Hadwiger asked, frowning. - "Where
am Impatience remark, I must always smile, "Lamberg said with a warm tone. - "And you not feel?
You expect nothing? Shook "Lamberg head. - "And you also expect nothing? "turned so here Hadwiger
and amazed at the other two. "I've Franziska Request, "held at that time for a mood, known Cajetan.
- "Why did you then come '? Hadwiger asked almost sharply. - "First, because I am here with
pleasure, second, because I compelled by my word given was to take the serious mood, "was the
reply. - "And Also, Rudolf? "-" I never believe in programs and am suspicious of appointments,
because they bind and mostly "one-sided commitment," said Borsati.

Cajetan turned the conversation to Riccardo Troyer.

He was the infamous foreigners on several occasions in the society met and praised him as
a man of great world, a sovereign Power over the people in each case and by the frivolity and
be safe, whether it is outlawed or be seen, the characteristics of a demonic specificities so
clear in itself that you can not escape his influence. Borsati blamed the word of the demonic
Specificity as a youthful gibberish, in his experience are the so-called
demonic people outrageous comedians, nothing else.

But Cajetan continued undeterred and said he had not grasped the essence that has been made
to Franziska's last liaison, especially since the marriage with the old Armansperg not to
good end could have resulted.

"But it has never been" thrown away, exclaimed Hadwiger.

She has "not done in this case, Cajetan replied seriously and determined. "A Woman as she follows
unerring instincts, and even if she chooses the path to destruction, fate is more in it than we suspect.
She has never thrown away, that's true. Who submits to, can not throw away, and there is a loyalty
to the feeling that the is of higher rank than the loyalty to the person. "

It was now eleven o `clock and the three hotel residents leave of Lamberg. This stood on the
balcony and listened for a long time their voices echoing in the night. Far down there on the
road a cart rattled. George Vincent went outside, felt the grass and, as he found it dry, he predicted
in quiet for the next day bad weather. He then went to the upper floor of the house, opened the
door to a dark chamber and exclaimed: "Quäcola That was the name he had given to the chimpanzees.
The animal had a happy little cry listening. Lamberg unbolted the cage and the monkey followed
him out the chamber, down the stairs, into the lighted dining room. He sat down with smart-driven
Good behavior and looked eager for a bowl filled with fruits, which
stood on the table.

Lamberg nodded and reached for the monkey grabbed a plum and bit into it. However, had the roles
of that distant car approached, listened to George Vincent rushed to the window, then the door, the
coach stopped and Franziska looked pale face from the blow. Georg Vincent welcomed fully silent
surprise, and after he called the servant to luggage outlet, it led her into the house. "You
are as punctual as a midnight ghost," he said with a smile and a researcher in her face, whether
they have such a jocular conversation start was launched. She returned to the ghostly railroad
was wearing only the guilty, and since they have a long journey,
it was inevitable that they only at night had reached their destination.

"But why did not I notified?" He asked, and when they seemed surprised, he added quickly: "I
would usually expect you at the station."

She was wearing a dark robe. Their language had become quieter, the hand that the first Greeting into
his set, smaller, colder and harder. The mouth looked like many futile Words from fatigue, and
among the over-bright eyes were two pale shadow.

Lamberg looked at more attentive, they gave under his gaze, she asked, if she could stay a few days
in his house, and after he had already affirmed eagerly seized it with both hands, his rights
and stammered asking, "But do not ask me! Not only ask! "

He saw
first hand how important it was not to ask. That was not Frank, not
the more mischievous, sparkling Franziska, the lust for life. It was
a saddle, an infirm, a frail, with a last-holding forces up straight,
and she had needed a rest. As they fell down on the sofa, his head
burrowed in his arms and sobbed! Would have the non-transformed Frank
never cried, not through tears, through laughter than they would have
Quäcola, the Chimpanzees, led to a bewildered escape into the top
corner of the room.

Lamberg was walking and thought behind this misery
are dark realities. But he asked with no sight of his eye. There will
come the hour when it shattered her heart when she silent, he told
himself. His gentle encouragement managed to calm her.  It was a well-nigh unendurable
pain to Sir Shawn to pass the place where the friend of his youth and boyhood had been killed.

Suddenly the horse jibbed again.  A long ray of light had streamed out on to the darkness of
the road.  At first Sir Shawn thought it was a hooded lantern.  Few came this road, unless
it might be a stranger who did not know the countryside traditions.  But the light was steady;
it did not move as a lantern carried in the hand would have done.

It flashed upon him what it was.  The woman in the Waterfall Cottage must have lit her lamp,
forgetting to shutter her window which looked upon the road.  The cottage turned a gable to
the road, from which a paling divided it.  Otherwise the little place was hidden away behind
a wall, approached by a short avenue from a gate some distance away.  A pretty place, with
a garden that looked on to the fields, but very lonely for one woman, and too near the water.

The light remained steady.  As though it gave him confidence, the horse went on quietly, feeling
his master's hand upon him.  Just opposite the gable of the cottage a wall of loose stones
led into the O'Hart park. The house had been long derelict and was going to be pulled down,
now that the Congested Board, as the people called it, had acquired the O'Hart property.

Any one who wanted to go that way knocked down a stone from the wall. There was a little cairn
there always, though the employees of the Board were constantly putting back the stones.

The light from the cottage fell full on the cairn.  Sir Shawn's eyes rested on it and were
quickly averted.  There the heap of stones for mending the road had lain that night long ago
when Spitfire, had run away with Terence Comerford and thrown him.  There had been blood on
the stones--blood and ... and ... brains.  Horrible!

Sir Shawn had come level now with the long ray of light.  At the edge of it he paused.  He
could see plainly the interior of the room.  The unshaded lamp threw its bright light into
every corner of the room.  It was comfortable and homelike.  The furniture had belonged to
the previous tenant of the cottage and had been taken over by the estate. It was good, old-fashioned
furniture of a certain dignity.  The grandfather clock by the wall, the tall mahogany bookcase,
the sofa and chairs covered in red damask, were all good.  There was a round convex mirror
above the fireplace and some pictures on the wall.  The fire burned brightly, toning down somewhat
the hard unshaded lamplight.

A woman was sitting by the fire.  She was in black with a white collar and cuffs.  Her hair
was braided about her head.  She sat with her cheek resting in her hand, a pensive figure.

As though she knew she was being watched she started, turning her face sharply towards the
window.  Evidently she had forgotten to pull down the blind.  As she turned, her face was in
the full lamplight.

"My God!" Sir Shawn said to himself.  "My God!"

He stood for a few seconds as though in pain, leaning against the horse's side, before he went
on.  When he lifted his head darkness had come again.  The window had been shuttered.

CHAPTER IX

THE LETTER

From the pile of her letters one morning a month or so later, Lady O'Gara picked out one and
eyed it with distaste.  It looked mean.  The envelope of flimsy paper was dirty.  Some emanation
came from the thing like a warning of evil: she laid it on one side, away from her honest respectable
letters.

While she read through one or two of these the disreputable letter awaiting her attention worried
her.  It was something importunate, disagreeable, like a debased face thrust in at her door.
With a sigh she turned to it, to get it out of the way before she opened Terry's letter, clean
and dandyish, written on the delicate paper the Regiment affected.

She held the thing gingerly by the edge, and, going away from the table, she stood by the fire
while she opened it.  A smell of turf-smoke came out of it,--nothing worse than that.  Perhaps,
after all, it was only one of the many appeals for help which came to her pretty constantly.

"HONOURED MADAM,--This is from one who wishes you no harm, but onley good.  There is a woman
lives in the Waterfall Cottage your husband goes to see often.  Such doins ought not to be Aloud.

"From your sinceer Well-Wisher,
  XXX."

If it had been a longer letter she would not have read it.  It was so short and written so
legibly that the whole disgraceful thing leaped at her in a single glance.

As though it had been a noxious reptile which had bitten her she flung it from her into the
heart of the brightly burning fire of wood and turf.  A little flame sprang up and it was gone,
just as Sir Shawn came into the room.

They had the breakfast room to themselves now that there were no visitors, but Lady O'Gara
hesitated to speak.  She had no intention of keeping the matter of the anonymous letter from
her husband, but she wanted to let him eat his breakfast in peace, and to talk later on, secure
from possible interruptions.

She gave him scraps of news from her letters, and from The Times of the preceding day, which
reached them at their breakfast table.  She felt disturbed and agitated, but only as one does
who has received an insult.  She would be better when she had told Shawn about the horrid thing.

Her restlessness, so unlike her usual benign placidity, at last attracted her husband's notice.

"Any disturbing news, Mary?" he asked.

"Nothing."  Her hand hovered over Terry's letter.  "Terry thinks he can get a few days' leave
next week for the pheasants and bring a couple of brother-officers with him."

"H'm!" Sir Shawn said, a little grimly.  "He hasn't been away very long.  I suppose Eileen
is coming back."

"She comes on Monday."

"I expect he knows it."

"Perhaps he does.  Have you finished, Shawn?  Another cup of tea?  No? I want to talk to you,
dear.  Will you come out to the Robin's Seat. It is really a beautiful morning."

"Let me get my pipe."

Unsuspiciously he found his pipe and tobacco pouch and followed her. The Robin's Seat was a
wooden seat below a little hooded arch, under a high wall over which had grown all manner of
climbing wall-plants.  The arbour and the seat were on the edge of a path which formed the
uppermost of three terraces: below the lowest the country swept away to the bog.  The wall,
made to copy one in a famous Roman garden, was beautiful at all times of the year, with its
strange clinging and climbing plants that flourished so well in this mild soft air.  In Autumn
it was particularly beautiful with its deep reds and golds and purples and bronzes.  The Robin's
Seat was a favourite resting-place of these two married lovers, who fed the robins that came
strutting about their feet, and even perched on their knees, asking a crumb.

Despite the disturbance of her mind Lady O'Gara had not forgotten her feathered pensioners.
She threw crumbs to them as she talked, and the robins picked them up and flirted their little
heads and bodies daintily, turning a bright inquiring eye on her when the supply ceased.

"Well, Mary?"

"I hate to tell you, Shawn."  She brushed away the last crumbs from her lap.  "I did not tell
you the truth when I said there was nothing disturbing among my letters."

"I knew there was something.  We have not lived so long together for me not to know you through
and through.  And you are as open as the day."

"It was a horrid thing, a creeping, lying thing."

"An anonymous letter."  His eyes fluttered nervously under the droop of the long lashes.  "You
should have put it in the fire, darling."

"I did.  There was so little of it that unfortunately I saw it all at a glance.  It is horrid
to think that any one about here could do such a thing."

Suddenly she laughed.  She had a peculiarly joyous laugh.

"They,--whoever wrote it--should have said something more likely to be believed.  They said--I
beg your pardon for telling you, Shawn--that you were visiting a lady at the Waterfall Cottage."

She was looking at him and suddenly she saw the shadows come in his face which had had the
power to disturb her before: or she thought she did.  The upper part of his face was in shadow
from the balsam that dropped its trails like a fringe over the arch.

"You did not believe it, Mary?"

"What do you think?  Would you believe such a story of me?"

"Don't!" he said, and there was something sharp, like a cry, in the protest.  "No reptile would
be base enough to spit at you."

They were alone together.  Below them the terraces fell to the coloured bogs.  A river winding
through the bog showed as a darkly blue ribbon, reflecting the cloud of indigo which hung above
the bog.  Beyond was the Wood of the Echoes, the trees apparently with their feet in the water
in which other trees showed inverted.  Not a creature to see them, but the robins.

Suddenly he put his head down on her shoulder, with the air of a tired child.

"Your correspondent was not a liar, Mary," he said.  "I have visited Mrs. Wade at Waterfall
Cottage, at night too, and only not by stealth because I thought that Hercules' ghost--" he
shivered a little--"would have kept spies and onlookers from that place."

Lady O'Gara shifted his head slightly with the greatest gentleness, so that she might caress
him, stroking his hair with her fingers.

"Well, and why not?" she asked, with her air of gaiety.

"There never was such a wife as you, Mary," he said.  "Go on stroking my hair.  It draws the
pain out."

"You have neuralgia?" she asked with quick alarm.

"No: it is a duller pain than that.  It is a sort of congestion caused by keeping secrets from
you."

"Secrets!"  Her voice was quite unsuspicious.  "You could not keep them long."

He sat up and looked at her, and she saw that there was pain in his eyes.

"I have been keeping secrets from you all our wedded life together, Mary."

She uttered a little sound of dismay--of grief.  Then she said, with an assumption of an easy
manner:

"And if you have, Shawn, well--they must be things I had no right to know.  There are reticences
I can respect.  Other people's secrets might be involved...."

"That was it," he said eagerly.  "There was another person's secret involved.  I kept it back
when it would have rested my heart to tell you."

"I shall not ask you to tell me now unless the time has come to tell. I can trust you, Shawn."

"The time may have come," he answered, drawing down her caressing hand to kiss it.  "Another
man might have told it to win you the more completely, Mary.  He might have found justification
for betraying his friend.  I thought at one time you must have cared for Terence Comerford
and not for me.  It was the strangest thing in the world that you should have cared for me.
Terence was so splendid, so big, so handsome and pleasant with every one.  How could you have
preferred me before him?  And I knew he wasn't fit for you, Mary.  I knew there was another
girl,--yet I held my peace.  It tortured me, to keep silence. And there was the other girl
to be thought of.  He owed reparation to the other girl.  But his mother had her heart set
on you for a daughter-in-law.  I believe he would have done the right thing if he had lived,--in
spite of all it would have meant to his mother.  He had a good heart,--but--oh, my God!--he
should not have lifted his eyes to you when there was that other poor girl!"

He spoke in a voice as though he were being tortured, and her caressing hand felt the cold
sweat ooze out on his forehead.  How sensitive he was!  How he grieved for his friend after
all those years!

"He did not really lift his eyes to me as you say," she said.  "His mother wanted it.  He never
did.  A woman is not deceived."

"But you cared for him--to some extent?" he asked jealously.

"I never cared for any man but one," she answered.  "I used to think you would never ask me.
Perhaps you never would have only that I came to you when you were so broken down after your
illness; and you had not strength enough to resist me."

She finished with a certain pathetic gaiety.  With all his deep love for her she had not brought
him joyfulness.  Many people had noticed it.  Her own well-spring of Joy had never run dry.
It had survived even his sadness, and had made the house bright for their one child, but there
had been moments, hours, when she had felt oddly exhausted, as though she had to bear a double
strain of living.

"You saved me from utter despair,--'an angel beautiful and bright.' That is what you seemed
to me when you showed me your exquisite pity."

"Poor Terence!" she said softly.  "Do you know, Shawn, I believe he was often on the edge of
telling me his secret.  Over and over again he began and was interrupted, or he drew back."

"Hardly, Mary.  Men do not tell such things to the ladies of their family."

"Oh!"  She coloured like a girl.  "It was,--that.  I thought it was ... a lady ... some one
he knew in Dublin perhaps."

"It was a girl in Killesky.  Her grandmother kept a little public-house.  She looked like an
old Gipsy-Queen, the grandmother. And the girl--the girl was like a dark rose.  All the men
in the county raved about her--the gentlemen, I mean.  It was extraordinary how many roads
led through Killesky.  The girl was as modest as she was beautiful.  Terence was mad about
her.  He knocked down a Connaught Ranger man who made a joke about her.  That last leave--before
he was killed--he was never out of the place.  She had been at a convent school--the old woman
had brought her up well--and she used to go on visits to school friends in Dublin.  Terence
told me he met her in Dublin when we were at the Royal Barracks.  I implored him to let her
alone, but he was angry and told me to mind my own business.  That last time it was more serious.
Poor little Bridyeen!  I told him he ought to marry her.  I think he knew it.  It made him
short-tempered with me. But ... I hope ... I hope...--" the strange anguish came back to his
voice--"that he would have married her."

"I remember now," Lady O'Gara said.  "I remember the girl.  Aunt Grace thought very well of
her; she told the old woman she ought not to have Bridyeen serving in the bar.  She was a beautiful
little creature, like a moss rosebud, such dark hair and the beautiful colour and the ardent
look in her eyes.  Old Mrs. Dowd answered Aunt Grace with a haughtiness equal to her own. 
Aunt Grace was very angry: she said the old woman was insolent.  I did not learn exactly what
Mrs. Dowd had said, but I gathered that she said she knew how to keep her girl as well as Aunt
Grace did."

"I sometimes thought the old woman was ambitious," Sir Shawn went on, dreamily.  "She used
to watch Bridyeen while all those fellows were hanging about her and paying her compliments.
I have sometimes thought she meant Bridyeen to marry a gentleman.  Several were infatuated
enough for that.  The old woman was always about watching and listening.  I don't think any
of them was ever rude to the little girl. She was so innocent to look at.  If any man had forgotten
himself so far he would have had to answer to the others."

"What became of them--afterwards?  Killesky seldom came in my path.  I did not know that the
picturesque old woman and the little granddaughter had gone till after we were married, when
I drove that way and saw the garish new shop going up.

"It was like the old woman to carry off poor Bridyeen from all the scandal and the talk.  You
remember how ill I was.  I thought that as soon as I was well enough I would go and see them--the
old woman and the poor child.  I would have done what I could.  They were gone.  No one knew
what had become of them.  They had gone away quietly and mysteriously.  The little place was
shut up one morning.  You remember how pretty it was, the little thatched house behind its
long garden. They had gone to America.  Fortunately the people had not begun to talk."

"That poor little thing!" Lady O'Gara said softly.  "She looked as shy as a fawn.  I wonder
what became of her."

"Don't you understand, Mary?  She has come back.  She is ... Mrs. Wade."

"Oh!  She married then?  Of course you would want to be kind to her.  I suppose she is a widow!"

"I don't think she married.  I don't know what brings her back here, unless it is the desire
to return which afflicts the Irish wherever they go.  She has fixed herself in such a lonely
spot.  After all, she is my tenant.  It is my business to see that she wants for nothing. 
I recognized her one night I came that way--when I was late and had to take that road.  I saw
her through the unshuttered window with a strong light on her face.  I went back there in daylight
and came upon her drawing water from the well.  She was frightened at first, but afterwards
she seemed glad to see me.  She is very lonely.  No one goes to see her but Mrs. Horridge,--a
good creature--but Bridyeen is a natural lady.  I must not go there again though she is a grey-haired
woman older than her years--it was strange that I recognized her after twenty years; there
are beasts who will talk."

"I shall come with you, Shawn," said Lady O'Gara.  "That will be the best way to prevent their
talking."

CHAPTER X

MRS. WADE

A friendship had sprung up between Mrs. Horridge and Mrs. Wade, as Sir Shawn had said--a curious
friendship, not altogether equal, for Mrs. Wade had a certain amount of education and was curiously
refined--America had not altered her even to the extent of affecting her speech; and that was
a very exceptional thing, for the returned Americans usually came with a speech altered out
of all recognition.

When Lady O'Gara came into the little sitting-room at the cottage, having knocked with her
knuckles and obtained no answer, she found Susan Horridge there.  Susan stood up, making a
little dip, took the boy's garment she had been mending and went away, while Mrs. Wade received
her visitor with a curious air of equality.  It was not such an equality as she might have
learnt in the United States.  There was nothing assertive about it.  It was quite unconscious.

She seemed profoundly agitated by Lady O'Gara's visit, her colour coming and going, her eyes
dilated.  She had put out a hand as Susan Horridge went away, almost as though she would have
detained her by force.

"Please forgive my coming in like this," Lady O'Gara said.  "I was knocking for some time,
but you did not hear me.  My husband, Sir Shawn O'Gara, has told me about his tenant, and I
thought I would like to come and see you."

"Thank you very much, Lady O'Gara.  I am sorry you had to wait at the door.  Won't you sit down?"

"May I sit here?  I don't like facing the light.  My eyes are not over-strong."

"Dear me.  They look so beautiful too."

The naïve compliment seemed to ease the strain in the situation.  Lady O'Gara laughed.  She
had sometimes said that she laughed when she felt like to die with trouble.  People had taken
it for an exaggerated statement.  What cause could Mary O'Gara have to feel like dying with
trouble?  Even though Shawn O'Gara was a melancholy gentleman, Mary seemed very well able to
enjoy life.

"How kind of you!" she said merrily.  "I might return the compliment. What a pretty place you
have made of this!"

"I brought a few little things with me.  I knew nothing was to be bought here.  And the things
I found here already were good."

"It is a damp place down here under the trees.  Now that you have made it so pretty it would
be hard to leave it.  Else I should suggest another cottage.  There is a nice dry one on the
upper road."

"Oh!  I shouldn't think of leaving this," Mrs. Wade said, nervously. Still her colour kept
coming and going.  America had not yellowed her as it usually had the revenants.  Her dark
skin was smooth and richly coloured: her eyes soft and still brilliant.  Only the greying of
her hair told that she was well on towards middle age.

"But it is very lonely.  You are not nervous?"

"I like the loneliness."

"You should have a dog."

Her tongue had nearly slipped into saying that a dog was the kind of company that did not ask
questions.

"I should have to exercise a dog."

A queer look of fear came into her eyes.  Lady O'Gara could have imagined that she looked stealthily
from one side to another.

"But you must go out sometimes," she said.

Again the look of fear cowered away from her.  What was it that Mrs. Wade was afraid of?

"I was never one for walking," she said, lamely.

"You don't like to tear yourself from this pretty room?"

It was very pretty.  The walls had been thickly whitewashed and the curtains at the window
were of a deep rose-colour.  A few cushions in the white chairs and sofa repeated the rose-colour.
The room seemed to glow within the shadow of the many trees, overhanging too heavily outside.

"You have too many trees here," Lady O'Gara went on.  "It must be pitchy towards nightfall.
I shall ask my husband to cut down some of them."

She was wondering at her own way with this woman.  Gentle and kindly as she was, she had approached
the visit with something of shrinking, the unconscious, uncontrollable shrinking of the woman
whose ways have always been honourable and tenderly guarded, from the woman who has slipped
on the way, however pitiable and forgivable her fault.  It is the feeling with which the nun,
however much a lover of her kind, approaches the penitent committed to her care.

She suddenly realized that in this case she did not shrink.  Whatever difference there might
be between her and Mrs. Wade there was not that difference.  They met as one honourable woman
meets another. Lady O'Gara was glad that she had forgotten to shrink.

"Thank you very much," said Mrs. Wade.  "It is kind of you to think of it.  But--I like the
trees.  You are very kind, Lady O'Gara.  About the dog,--if I had a little gentle one, who
would stay with me while I gardened and not want too much exercise, I should like it."

"I believe I can get you such a one.  My cousin, Mrs. Comerford, or rather her adopted daughter,
has Poms.  There is a little one, rather lame, in the last litter.  His leg got hurt somehow.
I am sure I can have him.  You will be good to him."

Mrs. Wade had drawn back into the shadow.  The one window lit the space across by the fireside
to the door and the other portion of the room was rather dark.  But Lady O'Gara had an idea
that the woman's eyes leaped at her.

"I saw the young lady," she said.  "She came to Mrs. Horridge's lodge one day I was there.
She was so pretty, and the little dogs with her were jumping upon her.  Little goldy-coloured
dogs they were."

"Yes, that would be Stella.  She loves her dogs: I know she would be so glad to give you one,
because you would be good to it."

"Maybe she'd bring it to me one day?  She's a pretty thing.  It would be nice to see her in
this house."

The voice was low, but there was something hurried and eager about it. Lady O'Gara imagined
that she could see the heave of the woman's breast.

"Certainly.  We shall bring the puppy together.  I shall tell Stella."

A sudden misgiving came to her when she had said it.  Perhaps she ought to be too careful of
Stella to bring her into touch with a woman who had slipped from virtue, however innocently
and pitiably.  It was a scruple which might not have troubled her if Stella had been her own
child.  There was another thing.  Would Grace Comerford, if she knew all, be willing that her
adopted daughter should be friends with Mrs. Wade?

Again something leaped at her from the woman's eyes, something of a gratitude which took Lady
O'Gara's breath away.

"It will be nice to have a little dog of my own," she said.  "It will be great company in the
house at night.  A little dog like that would be almost like a child.  And in the daytime he'd
give me word if any one was coming."

Suddenly she seemed to have a new thought.  She leant forward and said in the same agitated way:

"You wouldn't be bringing Mrs. Comerford?"

"No, no," said Lady O'Gara.  "I shall not bring Mrs. Comerford."

"I knew her long ago.  She was kind, but she was very proud," Mrs. Wade said, dropping back
into the shadow from which she had emerged.

So it was of Mrs. Comerford she was afraid!  What was it?  Conscience? Did she think Terence
Comerford's mother could have heard anything in that far away time?

"I shall not bring Mrs. Comerford," she said.  "Stella is much with me at Castle Talbot."

Again she wondered why she had said "Stella."  It would have been "Miss Stella" to another
woman of Mrs. Wade's class.

"Might I be making you a cup of tea, Lady O'Gara?" Mrs. Wade asked with a curiously brightening
face.  "I had put on the kettle in the kitchen for Mrs. Horridge.  It will be boiling by this
time."

Lady O'Gara was about to refuse.  Then she changed her mind.  A refusal might hurt Mrs. Wade.
Beyond that she had a sudden curiosity,--her husband had often said that she had a touch of
the gamin--as to how Mrs. Wade would give her tea.  Would she sit down with her in the equality
of an afternoon call?  There was a little twitch at the corners of her lips as she answered
that she would like tea.  Sir Shawn was away shooting wild duck, and she would be alone at
tea if she went home.

While she waited, still with that half-delighted feeling of curiosity, she went and stood before
the old-fashioned bookcase which contained Mrs. Wade's library.  Very good, she said to herself.
There were odd volumes of Thackeray and Dickens, Mrs. Gaskell and Charlotte Brontë. Her dimples
came and were reflected as she turned about in the convex glass, with an eagle atop, over the
fireplace.  Outside a couple of stone eagles perched on the low roof, after the fashion of
a bygone day.  Far away in the silvery distance of the convex mirror a miniature Lady O'Gara
dimpled.

She was remembering a pretentious lady who had called on her a few days earlier--the wife of
a newly rich man who had taken Ardnavalley, a place in the neighbourhood, for the shooting.
Sir Robert Smith, the multi-millionaire, was very simple.  Not so Lady Smith, who had remarked
that Bront was always readable.

There were also a few volumes of poetry, not very exacting,--Tennyson, Adelaide Procter, Longfellow,
and some Irish books--"The Spirit of the Nation," "Lady Wilde's Poems," Davis, Moore: a few
devotional books.

Ah well, it was very good--gentle and innocent reading.  And there was Mrs. Wade's prayer-book--The
Key of Heaven,--on a small table, the "Imitation of Christ" beside it.  By these lay one or
two oddly bound books in garish colourings, Lady O'Gara opened one.  She saw it was in French--an
innocuous French romance suitable for the reading of convent-school girls.

Mechanically she looked at the flyleaf.  It bore an inscription; Miss Bride Sweeney, Enfant
de Marie, had received this book for proficiency in Italian, some twenty-two years earlier
at St. Mary's Convent.

She held the book in her hand when Mrs. Wade appeared, carrying a little tray of unpainted
wood, on which was set out a tea for one person, all very dainty, from the small china cup
and saucer on its white damask napkin to the thinly cut bread and butter.

Lady O'Gara had been thinking that if Mrs. Wade did not wish to be identified with Bride Sweeney,
she should not leave her school-prizes about.

"Ah, you are looking at that old book," Mrs. Wade said, setting down her little tray, while
she spread a tea-cloth on the table.  "They are very dull stories.  Even a convent-school girl
could not extract much from them.  I'm sorry it's so plain a tea.  If I'd known your Ladyship
was coming I'd have had some cakes made."

"This home-made bread is delicious," Lady O'Gara said.  "But, won't you have some tea too?"

"No, thank you.  I am not one for tea at every hour of the day like Mrs. Horridge.  I take
my tea when you are taking your dinner.  You wouldn't like a boiled egg now? Now I am one of them serfs, nothing will redeem myself. - My
name from the number of living is spread in the book of damnation I stand enrolled, - soon my
terrible bill will be read! - -

Ali went closer to him and said, Tarry here, I'm going to see die Selim. - Is now " he poisoned
cup not so courageous, so contemptible empty. He laughs scornfully humanity after, he is ashamed
of his deeds and his inspiration. - This joy will I not fail.

Ali went and the Wazir and the other accompanied him. - Abdallah remained
in the large hall Only, everything around him seemed to look terrible
with faces, he ran furiously his head against the wall.

"Now! "now! - He spoke softly, - "now he drinks the cup here, now laugh Ali and his shameful The
wake of the death throes of my father, Selim thinks of his son and that thought turns it into
more terrible cramps. - O Abdullah! Abdallah! - You were born to do it? - O fearful now that
target has moved! - Forever, forever I'm lost! - Selim! - Abdallah! - All nature will spring
back in their chaos, for love is dead, all the elements hostile to fight again against each other
and the world Debris strike. - O why I, among millions of I rejected,
of his father must kill? - Just me? - This idea is smiling at me all
hell.

He stood again in a dull stupor.

Chapter Seven.

Omar went into the hall. Abdallah went on when he saw him and rushed into his arms wildly.
Rescue! Rescue! he cried violently. - Omar tear me by your power
of this vortex, me shattered, oh where have you been?

Why did you not protect me so all these terrible torment to waste?
- I am no longer worthy of your help?

Does not like being Abdallah longer since he has been unfaithful to humanity? - Omar! save me
from myself yourself! Look, I'm almost insane, oh I could be there all, I would be happy!

I am afraid of you, "said Omar, I did not think you find Sun

Abdallah.

Not so? - Oh, and how different?

How can I be different? - You marvel that you love me antriffst still
alive, no mortal has struggled with so many torments. - I should be
quiet now, "because my father crunching under horrible pain? -

Omar.

He no longer suffers. -

Abdallah. "Now"?

Omar. He is dead!

Abdallah. Dead? - Dead? - He was and is no more. Dead?

Oh, how much is in the poor little words. Now he has atoned for my crime. -

He fell back into a deep thought that Omar tried to dispel in vain. - I he had, he continued.
- Had? - O heaven, my father I loved so tenderly, of me so dearly loved, he is dead. From
his slain son, abandoned to the Blood lust by Abdallah. - Oh, Omar! Omar! - Just now I should
have his tortures by Zulma may buy and now I lament the fact that he no longer feels it. -

Omar. Be wise, Abdallah. Let what is past be past. - What you have won, if you torture these
thoughts forever? Doubt was on everything and just live in the present, all your hopes come
to meet thee crowned, behold, it lacks any formal in their Course, go with cheerful face on it,
as befits the lucky ones. - Away with this Wrinkles!

Look like a bridegroom, who expects his bride, thousands are unhappy, without to enjoy the happiness
that is yours.

Zulma! call that name to withdraw only and all care, then cowardly escape any trouble.

Abdallah.

Zulma? - Oh, that was a happiness to which I was hoping once so eagerly, but and this beam
is set behind clouds, even this pleasure have I squandered in order
nothing to gain. - You show, back to comfort me, on a tomb in which
a friend slumbers, once my delight.

Omar. O Zulma, Zulma you is not dead, just call back a ray of that rapture, with whom you once thought
her name. -

Abdallah. Oh Omar, it will be my eternal directory of my crimes, all blissful Hinweggeflohen feelings
are for ever from me, just the appalling are left to me, this expectations based on each entity,
to every expectation. -

Omar. Pull yourself out of this lazy soul deafness, showing the horror a hero's breast, and
they will fall back!

Abdallah. No, Omar, can expect to receive the joy of parricide? Any other criminal kind heaven
forgive once, but the parricide prayer should not be in his heaven , Would dare to shake the angels
and blanch the eternal glory of his throne. For ages I was read out to be a mockery of cruel
fate and this terrible game will never end. - Oh! Could I again what I was, Could I say to
you: wake me! and then I woke up and everything, everything would
have been just a dream stands, then of Abdallah again in front of
you, who once stood before you, you were the same Omar, who you formerly
were, - oh! I even called your lessons with childlike innocence in
me, as a angry gaze of my father or from you the evil of this earth
for me was when I was happy every night to sleep and the beam of the
morning I was awakened to new pleasures, as I me that worry and left
with a childlike smile each day, which handed me the following, -
O when can I return a cost of bliss?

How is this so suddenly Abdallah beyond all the crimes and vices
thrown? - Heaven! how close to me is the time when I still recoiled
at the thought of a murderer? - And even a murderer and depraved of
all murderers, parricide! - Could I o 'I believe in the impossible,
then might the Improbability and trust me boldly reconcile with myself
again. - But no; it is!

Not true, Omar, is it? -

Omar. It was.

Abdallah. No, it is! eternity, the Almighty himself can not my crime of I buy again. - Oh,
Omar listened as my father, that his Abdallah him to destruction I betray, - ah, when he saw me
with a look - oh, it was a terrible View, will never lose my imagination
that look, not an hour of my life I was yet so terrible as this, never
had my anguish increased as high as in the sight of the eye, all was
horror in it.

Let me just forget that look, Omar, and I will venture the bold promise
to forget everything else!

Omar. Your father has forgiven you, you forgive yourself -

Ali and his entourage came back. - Could not even cry had squeezed
the death, said Ali sullen, his death was as stubborn as his life,
he went to the death like a of others to sleep on his couch throws,
and the pain was digging into all of its trains and drove his limbs
swollen horribly on, but he saw the horrible sight, such as a Games.
- Also not a sigh escaped him.

Ali waved and some slaves came forward, the stunned Abdallah led into a bathroom. lost in dreams he did without
thinking all that was required of him.

He was anointed then with delicious balm and adorned him with rich garments, he hardly noticed
the changes. - Returned with gold and purple, he was decked out in the hall to Ali.

All the greats of the kingdom were gathered here, the room gleamed
with precious stones, sky blue Cushions were decorated with gold on
the sides of the hall.

Abdallah welcomed everyone respectfully, all bowed low, he forced himself to look around and
cheerfully greeting everyone with kindness to reciprocate.

Gorgeously dressed Zulma came in. "now, Abdallah had seen them have never been so beautiful,
he went on involuntarily, and hastened to meet her, with her came a priest. -

Ali took the hand of Zulma's and put them into the hand of Abdallah. - I give you, said he, as
I have promised you, your loyalty to your princes gave you this reward acquired will never unfaithful,
and my grace and favor of heaven will forever look down on you.

The priest pronounced the blessing upon both, the guests threw down and wished them Happiness.
- Abdallah saw more rigidly down the right, but sometimes he pushed hard and dumb Zulma's hand,
she often saw with concern for him, but he noted their looks and not brooded further back in his
dull reflection.

The ceremony was ended, Ali and the guests went away to the garden fresh inhale cool of the evening
air, Abdallah and Zulma were alone in the hall. -

O is at last, began Zulma, the great, the terribly beautiful, long-desired Moment arrived, to which
I have always doubted? - So, then, are my wishes met? - O hesitates
as I yesterday, and ran back in fright when I up in front of the palace
are saw, I knew how angry my father to yours - but now everything
is all over, - I sense in vain, as you are penetrated by the impossibilities
and up to have fought me - but it's the way in which it may, I hold
you in my arms and 'm happy, and what do I want more than happiness?

I am happy because I know enough, everything else is indifferent
to me today and without value. - But why are you are so dumb, Abdallah?

My joy and chatter yours is silent in a silent meditation lost?

Abdallah on saw. - Do you feel happy in my arms? he asked softly.

Zulma. As happy as in Paradise.

Abdallah. Very happy?

Zulma. Could you doubt it? -

Abdallah. O is the curse of the Lord is not stamped on my forehead - and you do not feel that
you are lying in the arms of a murderer?

Zulma. A Murderer?

Abdallah. Did you hear the herald who proclaimed the terrible bid?

Heaven! - Not you - Zulma said with anxious penalties - they could, they did not dare to your thoughts.

Yes!
Abdallah said, laughing loudly, I had lost my father to you, you win!

Zulma went back, turning pale, she would fall down unconscious, but she began in Abdallah on
his arms.

With half-closed eyes, she saw him hard, she could not speak, her lips trembled, she wanted to
loose from his embrace, but in a terrible Cramp, he held it tightly clasped to his chest. You
are mine! mine! he cried aloud, - I 've wrested from hell and no hell to rob me up again - as
you do to me belong, or belonged to no woman to man, every hair of your head is a curse bought.
- O Zulma!

Zulma! also you want to leave me? - For you have I am indeed the Damnation pledged, for you,
just for you I am disloyal nature and my humanity and had become enraged at my bones are gnawed,
- o here's the last refuge my soul shall in no other area of ​​the venture branded criminals,
only love takes him kindly. - O Zulma! leaning on your bosom to me
your sweet lips oblivion teach here, I want to enjoy the sky despite
hostilities, - o up hatt 'I forgot, I terminates the Lord my joys.

A murderer? A parricide? Zulma cried horribly. - O monster away from
my Poor, you are no longer Abdallah!

Zulma! Zulma! Abdallah said, here is my last hope, get me this and my lust is madness, and
blasphemy! - Even if I'm unfaithful o is bliss, I will I throw in
the whole sea of ​​damnation, since recovery is impossible!

No, Zulma must remain with me, or the Almighty is more than cruel, he's an eternity ago himself
to torture me, he let me these few years down here.

Horrible! Zulma said. - O thou hast a terrible secret enträthselt. - Love should presume in your
chest in?

Where the horror is sitting on a black throne Schauder and his guards are terrible? - No Abdallah,
- my love is for this Moment extinguished; o appalling, I fear you, how could I have loved you?

Zulma!
cried Abdallah, o it is now everything, everything, I curse you with
dreadful curses for to thee have I done the deed, I'll let you to
destruction and horror, I clutch at me fast at you and tear up with
me into the hell that awaits me.

Zulma. You raving, Abdallah. - O thou want to win you love me so? - So? -
Away! - The Humanity has expelled you, what will the Despised in my arms?
I belonged to her yet to - I have not murdered my father - if I besprützt
with his blood to you come, let us love us, till then let my disgust!

Abdallah
was driving them. - This horror he said, was missing from the horrible number,
Zulma retreats, and now take eternal torment me in reception! - Love me
not forgiving, - What should I hope from the strict judge there? Everything
breaks away from me, but I myself have remaining. Destruction, storms
out! Shower approach, destruction! - Hell, open your arms! Zulma is cursed,
 and the moment when I saw you first!

Abdallah threw himself exhausted on a cushion, Zulma did not dare to look
at him, she dried secretly cold tears from the eyes of horror. - Her father
came out with the guests the back garden.

Chapter Eight.

Even Omar was now "in with the other guests and welcomed Abdallah. - In a colorful crowd is all
gay and traverses talked and talked with each other, male and female slaves went through the
hall and prepared the table and the festive meal; lights shone on gold and silver chandeliers and
dazzling sheen trembled through the room.

All eyes looked round, happy, everyone laughed and joking, but Abdallah was among them, like
an object their ridicule, his eye strayed to the Assembly and stared
then again motionless on the ground out, he often began with the one
closest to him, stood to speak, but he immediately broke down again,
without knowing it, and lost himself in his dreadful silence. - Zulma
walked through the room embarrassed, sometimes she spoke to her Father,
now saw them through to the lifeless Abdallah. - Finally saw Abdallah
Omar's in the crowd, he hastened towards him, he had finally found
a well-known being that familiar with his feelings was.

Abdallah and Omar went up and down.

Also the last chance, said Abdullah at last, I have become apostate,
Zulma does not love me.

She does not love you? Omar asked, surprised.

     O she hates me, "answered Abdallah.
     - This love was just a very short
     spring, the black winter
     comes back. You see,
     like me everything is all untrue? - Oh, Omar, I stagger along like
a dream - I could put in my quiet in my grave!

       Oh, had ' I
     never lived!
     
     Omar wanted to reassure him,
     but Abdallah did not listen to his words, he remained in self- withdrawn
and sighed heavily.

  
  
  The banquet was arranged,
  however, the lights
  shone in brighter glow, the crowd
     got is "now, we ordered and sat down
     at the table.

Zulma sat to the left of Abdallah, Omar on the right.

They ate and everyone was happy and contented, slave girls danced, sang and played on guitars and theorbo,
others suggested small hand drums, cymbals others.

Abdallah spoke little, he saw rigid down before him, he did not dare to look Zulma. -

In a joyous music the slaves danced and sang:

Floating in sweet melodies Sanftgesungne wedding songs, And in more and sweeter tones Greets
the groom, Greets the ear of the bride. -

Bliss songs Speaking in
the joyful dance, Jubilant chants Float in a low flight Delighted
about your head.

   
   
   Like a golden Blüthenregen Swim
   happiness upon you,
   How to Wettergewölken
   To rainbow tension through the darkness, Then come always after dark
hours The indefatigable joy again. -

The dances are woven into ever
new entanglements, a magic scent flowed through the whole hall, their
faces shone with joy and laughter.

Abdallah was stunned, He had forgotten all the dances and songs were torn from him so much himself,
him with the joy of a madman against all laughed merrily. From a wild animal Happiness intoxicated,
he soon embraced Omar and then Zulma, even smiled at times Zulma and was reflected in his lively eyes.
The chants shouted and shouted at times Abdallah According to dancing in the chorus. Ali also
seemed happy, his revenge was satisfied, and the terrible Selim,
the only man in his kingdom, before he was trembling, not more. -

A
tall figure pushed his now "out of the crowd, wrapped tightly in black
Garments they moved along, a quiet shower accompanied them, all backed
away. - To a Sounds could be heard singing softly:

Hell has adopted
the sinner. - The coward does not befit crowns, Only the courage they
can win; Do you see the wicked Ignorant Sitting In addition to his
ruin? -

Abdallah felt a cold shudder went down his back.

The strange figure moved "now at Abdallah over, she threw back the
clothes from the head, it was Nadir old dead pale Face, he wore a
mirror under his sleeve, - Omar's face was reflected by ohngefähr,
- And o the horror!

It was the way it Abdallah in the wonderful Zauberpallast had seen.

The old man got back into the crowd.

Omar! Abdallah said the shuddering softly to his friend, - hark! - You do not listen to the songs
a voice softly parricide! groan? - Hark! hark! like the sound of a dying man, - That is his spirit,
- a parricide! sighs it so hard, so disgusted, as with an intimate
Herzensbangigkeit. - Oh! Beat the guitars and theorbos! he cried aloud
to her strings !

Jump überschreiet this bold reminders and chases him out of the room stunned, let the Timpani
thunder louder! - Beat all together in a terrible sound that no other
Voice is heard! -

The chants grew louder and wilder, the furious
dances, like firing flames so quickly Flohe and proceeded it is, and
always in artificial tissues swallowed:

Shock in the star vault Storming
joy song!

  That far through the silent
  night The rustling sounds
  joy! Wear the sea shore Echo sounding
  Our joy song! That far cliff
  Stade Close The name of
  Abdallah halls, That,
  through green fields
  The name Zulma walk, The
  dye flowers beautiful. That
  the moon was looking
  forward And golden shine,
  And take the reins of the
  night do not let Before
  fleeing the sun.
  
  Abdallah was tagged with a pale face on the opposite wall, his eyes
staring terribly torn up wild in the emptiness beyond. - Bewilderment
Omar asked him: what's the matter?

Look! Omar! Abdallah groaned. - See, the strange appearance to be with me! - A white drought
Todt hand stuck out secretly and silently out of the wall, and waves me tirelessly into it - what
could it be that calling me that? - They still beckons me seriously and commanding - Behold the
curved fingers gnawed! - Ha! it has seen you, because the hand has retired! - Omar, she comes
again - see, the arm withered and bony layer to the shoulder, - It wants to push out from the wall
- should be the father, the well to I want to take part in my joy? - Stitch my eyes out, Omar,
I like it not see any longer! -

Omar smiled at him sadly. - Omar, look around! Abdallah said anxiously, - I suddenly as I sit here under
dead hired foreign machinery that determines the turning head and open the lips - look how
the nods measured with the wooden skull Ali is called - I am cheated! - These are not people,
I sit alone here in lifeless images - ha! nods and picks up the fake arms - me you shall not
! Go behind - Look, this should be here Zulma? - Ha! a bony skeleton, hideous wrapped with meat
- look! "now its just the dead eyes will fall out of the skull, - Hu! I sit in mold and decay,
as in a slaughterhouse in accumulated meat, - Save me - away o! you are nothing better than this!
  Shawn was
wrong, she said vehemently to herself.  Eileen was not the girl for Terry.

"I will tell you a secret, Terry," she said.  "The first evening you came back, in the drawing-room
before dinner, there was something that might have passed for a love-scene between you and
Eileen.  Your father opened the door and withdrew.  Then he discovered that Stella had come
downstairs before him and was playing with the dogs in the hall by the dying fire.  He supposed
that she had surprised that scene before he did."

Oh, poor Shawn!  What a use she was making of his confidence!  But men never knew about their
sons as mothers did.  She would give anything, except her own soul, to procure Terry the joy
he desired.  And it was a good joy.  She loved Stella.  Of course, she would be very good to
Eileen, but she did not want Eileen for a daughter-in-law.  Shawn did not look very deeply.
He had hardly considered Eileen except as something pretty and gentle, who was pleasant in
the house and sang him Moore's Melodies of evenings in a small sweet voice.  He missed her
when she returned to her own people.

"I was an idiot for a second," the boy said, shamefacedly.  "I don't suppose you understand,
Mother, but men are like that.  Eileen can be very alluring when she likes and..."

"Don't tell me any more.  I can imagine," Lady O'Gara said and laughed, a laugh which had a
certain shyness in it.

"Then we fell out over the cat and dog," he said.  "Eileen was rather rude.  Perhaps I was
a little rough with Cleopatra, but she had scratched Shot's nose.  You know what Shot is! 
It was an entirely unprovoked attack.  I believe I did say that Cleopatra should be sent to
the Cats' Home."

Eileen appeared at this point, coming with an unwilling air.  It was true that her staying
within-doors so much had not improved her looks. She had not a very good circulation at any
time.  That, or her mood, had given her rose and white a dull, leaden look.  Her discontented
little face was lifted towards the dappled sky.  It was really a beautiful day of Autumn. 
There was a little wind, and the last yellow leaves on the branches tinkled like so many small
golden cymbals.  A pale gold sun was going low amid oceans of amber touched with rose, and
above dappled clouds were floating as though the day was February.

"It is so cold," said Eileen, and shivered.  "I don't see how Margaret can get on without fitting
me.  She had made up such a nice fire in my room.  I cannot see why any one wants to go out
in such weather."

"Oh, come along, you little grumbler!" Lady O'Gara said with her infectious gaiety.  "Come
for a good trot.  I know what will happen to you: you'll get chilblains if you sit by the fire
in cold weather. Your hands will be dreadful to look at, and your feet will be a torture."

Eileen looked down at her feet and then at her hands, childishly.  She had very pretty feet
and hands.

"They are all right so far," she said.

"You and Terry had better race each other to the bridge," Lady O'Gara said.  "I want to see
the colour in your face, child."

"Come along," said Terry, and caught at Eileen's hand. Half-unwillingly she ran with him, but
when Lady O'Gara caught up with them, Eileen was laughing and panting.

"This wretched son of yours," she said, "has run me off my feet."

"And you look the better for it," Lady O'Gara answered, her brown eyes merry and her cheeks
dimpling like a girl's.  "We are going for Stella, to bring her back to tea.  She has not been
near us for some days."

"Oh!"  Eileen had gone back to the chilly voice.  "She doesn't want to come.  She finds us
rather dull, I think."

Lady O'Gara laughed.

"I don't believe any one could find us dull," she said merrily, "least of all Stella."

"Oh well, I suppose I'm not telling the truth," Eileen said huffily. "All I know is she asked
me the last time I saw her if Terry ever brought any of his brother-officers home with him."

Terry's candid face clouded over ever so slightly; while his mother remarked that, of course,
three was an awkward number for games.  They wanted another man.  She believed she had been
talking about it.

"You might ask Major Evelyn," she said to Terry.  "It is still possible to have golf when there
is fine weather."

"I wonder if he would come?" Terry said ingenuously.  "Think of a second-lieutenant like me
asking a swell like Evelyn!  Why, his decorations make a perfect breastplate when he chooses
to put them on. Not that it is a matter of choice.  He only does it when he can't help it.
He did so splendidly in South Africa."

"I dare say he'd condescend to come," Lady O'Gara said.  "Few sportsmen can resist the Castle
Talbot duck-shooting."

"Do ask him," said Eileen, becoming animated.  "Two's company, three's none.  Everything is
lop-sided without a second man."

"I'll ask him, of course," Terry said.  "But I don't suppose he'll come.  It is like a kid
in the Lower School asking a prefect to tea. He may come--for the grub.  On the other hand
he may give the kid a kicking for his impudence."

After all, they had not to go as far as Inch.  They met Stella exercising her dogs about half
a mile from her own gates.  She would like to come to tea if she might first take the dogs
home and leave word as to where she had gone.

To Lady O'Gara's mind she looked small and unhappy as soon as the flush had faded which came
when she saw them.  She clung to Lady O'Gara, and could not be detached from her.  The dogs,
surrounding her, made a barrier between her and Terry, who, at first, kept as close to her
as he could, leaving Eileen to walk the other side of Lady O'Gara.

But Stella did not seem to have much to say to him.  She was too engrossed with the dogs and
with his mother to spare him a word.  The eager light which had come to his eyes when he had
first caught sight of her faded.  His candid face was overcast.  She had been keeping him at
arms-length ever since he had come back.

His mother watched him with a comprehension which was half tender amusement, half compassion.
He was becoming a little sullen over Stella's persistent disregard of him.  She watched the
set boyish mouth, the pucker of his forehead--her baby.  Terry had always had that pucker for
perplexity or disappointment.  Why, he had had it when the first down was on his baby head,
as soft as a duckling's.

The road grew narrow.  He began to lag behind, to veer towards Eileen.

"Is it worth while for us all to go on to Inch?" he asked in his discontented young voice.
"Supposing Eileen and I go on by the river, while you and Stella take back the dogs!  They
wouldn't follow me or I'd offer to go home with them.  It must be nearly a mile to the house
from the gate."

"I've a better way than that," Lady O'Gara said on a sudden impulse. She had taken Stella's
cold little hand in hers, and it made a mute appeal.  She was sure Stella was unhappy, poor
little motherless child. The two poor children, fretting and worrying each other about nothing
at all!  Her comprehending, merry, pitiful gaze went from one to the other young face.

"Suppose Eileen and I walk back.  You'll overtake us before we get home.  You two are such
quick walkers."

Eileen's lips opened as though to protest.  Her face had brightened at Terry's suggestion.
She closed them again in a tight snap.

"I never can see the good of walking about wet roads," she said crossly.  "It must be nice
to live in a town, where there are dry pavements, and people, and shops."

A robin rained out his little song from a bough above her head, and behind the trees the sky
broke up into magnificence--the sun looking from under a great dun cloud suffused with his
rays, while all below him was a cool greenish bluish wash of sky, tender and delicate.

"You would not find that in a city, Eileen," Lady O'Gara said, pushing away gently Stella's
cold little hand that seemed to cling to hers.

"Make her trot, Terry," she said.  "Her hands are cold as little frogs, like the child's hands
in Herrick's 'Grace for a Child.'

  "Cold as paddocks though they be,
  Still I lift them up to thee
  For a benison to fall
  On our meat and on us all."

She saw the sudden rush of joy to her son's face and she was a little lonely.  She felt that
she was no longer first with Terry.

CHAPTER XIII

THE OLD LOVE

Sir Shawn was still out when they got back, after a brisk walk.  The laggard young people made
no appearance for tea, though they waited a while.  Eileen grumbled discontentedly over everything
being cold and suggested a carelessness in Stella about other people's convenience. The tea-cakes
had been kept warm over a spirit-lamp, but she was in a captious mood.  Lady O'Gara wondered
at the girl, who had sometimes been embarrassingly effusive in the display of her affection.
Had she spoilt Eileen? or was the girl feeling sore and a little out of it?

The suggestion that Eileen might be feeling Terry's desertion of her was enough to soften his
mother's heart towards the captious girl, who as soon as she had finished her tea,--and a very
good tea she made--went off to see how Margaret McKeon was progressing with her skirt.

At the door she turned about.

"Do you think I might have a new evening frock, Cousin Mary?" she asked.  "My pink has gone
out of fashion.  There are such beautiful blues in some patterns I have got from Liberty's:
I could make it myself, with Margaret's help.  It would only need a little lace to trim it,
or some of that pearl trimming Liberty's use so much."

"Certainly, my dear child.  Let me know what it will cost.  I have a piece of Carrickmacross
lace somewhere which would make a fichu.  You must remind me, Eileen.  We live so quietly here
that I do not remember how the fashions change."

"I've hardly noticed, either," said Eileen, with a hand on the door handle.  "The pink does
very well for home-wear.  But if Terry is going to have friends, I should want something a
little smarter."

Lady O'Gara smiled.  So Eileen was interested in the coming of Major Evelyn!  And she had made
so good a tea that any one less ethereal-looking than Eileen might have been considered greedy!
She had left very little of the abundant tea to be removed.

"We'll have a turning-out one of these days," she said.  "I noticed your wardrobe was very
full the other day when I was in your-room.  We can send off what you don't want to Inver,
and I shall add a few lengths of that Liberty silk.  Brigid and Nora are so clever with that
little sewing machine I gave them last Christmas that they'll turn out something very pretty
for themselves."

"They've no occasion for pretty things," said Eileen.  "There never was any young man there
but Robin Gillespie, the doctor's son.  He is in India in the R.A.M.C.  Brigid liked him, I
think, but he was not thinking of Brigid."

Then she closed the door on her departing footsteps, leaving Lady O'Gara to her thoughts.

She put the consideration of Eileen from her a little impatiently.  She was afraid Eileen was
selfish.  She did not seem to have any desire to share her good things with her family, not
even with her mother, yet Mrs. Creagh was a very sweet mother; Mrs. Comerford who had a cynical
way sometimes had remarked one day when Eileen had been very caressing with Lady O'Gara: "If
your mother is like what I remember her you need not go further for some one to love."

It was the day on which Lady O'Gara had given Eileen her necklet of amethysts and seed-pearls--a
beautiful antique thing, of no great intrinsic value beyond its workmanship.

It suddenly came to her that, for a good while past, she had got into a way of propitiating
Eileen with gifts.  It had not occurred to her exactly as propitiation, but she had learnt
that when Eileen was out of sorts the gift of some pretty thing worked wonders.  Had she been
spoiling the girl?  Was she herself responsible for the whims and fancies which Eileen took
so often nowadays?  In the old days it had not been so.  Eileen had been sweet-tempered and
placidly selfish. There was a change in her of late.  It was quite unlike the old Eileen to
go away and leave her sitting alone in the drawing-room with only two watchful Poms, each with
a bright eye upon her from their respective chairs, and Shot stretched at her feet, to keep
her company.

She acquitted herself.  Love and generosity ought not to spoil any one: they ought to lift
up, to awake their like.  Was Eileen in love with Terry and resenting his desertion?  No; she
said emphatically in her thoughts.  She would have known if Eileen cared.  If it had been that
she could have been very tolerant.

Her thoughts went back to the first beginnings of difficulty with Eileen, and she fixed them
at the date of her return from her visit home during the preceding summer.  The fatted calf
had been killed for the girl's return.  Lady O'Gara remembered how she had anticipated it,
and had thought of what Eileen liked, the special food and sweets, and so on.  She had kept
Margaret McKeon busy with the new chintz curtains and cushions for Miss Eileen's room, and
when it was all finished had fussed about doing one little thing and another till the privileged
maid had been moved to protest.

"Hasn't Miss Eileen had everything she wanted from the lucky day for her that she came here?
Don't be robbin' yourself, m'lady."

Lady O'Gara had taken some of her own pretty things, a crystal clock, a silver and tortoiseshell
box for the toilet table--things Eileen particularly admired--and had added them to the other
pretty things, her gifts, of which the room had many.  She had brought an armful of her dearest
books: and she had insisted on pink roses because Eileen particularly liked pink.

After all Eileen had been cold when she came.  It had been like a douch of cold water.  She
had not recovered her sweet placidity since that time.  Lady O'Gara had commented on the change
to her husband, but he had not seen it.  He was fond of Eileen, in a superficial way.  Indeed
his devotion to and absorption in his wife were such that almost all other affection in him
must be superficial by contrast.  To two people his love had been given passionately, to Terence
Comerford and to his wife.  He never spoke of the dead friend.  It was a well-understood thing
in the circle that Terence Comerford was not to be spoken of carelessly, when Sir Shawn was
within hearing.

Sitting alone in the firelight, except for the adoring dogs, Lady O'Gara let her thoughts wander
on away from Eileen.  How deep and passionate was Shawn's love when it was given.  He had shrunk
from that first meeting with Mrs. Comerford after all those years.  He had turned pale when
she had taken his hand in hers, looking at him with a long gaze that asked pardon for her past
unreason and remembered that he and her dead son had been dearer than brothers.  After all
those years that touch with the past had opened the floodgates of grief in Shawn O'Gara. Only
his wife knew the anguish, the disturbed nights and the weary days that followed.  Grief in
him was like a sharp physical suffering.

Dear Shawn!  How glad she was that she was so strong and healthy and had such good spirits
always, so as to be able to cheer and comfort him.  She smiled to herself, remembering how
some of her friends had pitied her because she must always be uplifting his mood.  She had
never wearied nor found it an irksome effort.  A serious sad thought came to her; when the
hour of the inevitable parting came she prayed it might be her lot to be left desolate rather
than his.

She looked at her little watch, a delicate French thing, with a tiny painted picture on the
back framed within pearls ending in a true-lovers'-knot, one of Shawn's many gifts.  Six o'clock.
It was time Shawn was home.  She was very glad he had not ridden Mustapha, as he had wanted
to.  Patsy Kenny had dissuaded him.  Terry must have stayed on at Inch for tea.  It had been
a cold bright day, and it must be turning to frost, for the fire was burning so redly.  The
cold was on the floor too, for the little dogs had left their baskets and taken to the chairs,
a thing supposed to be strictly forbidden, although as a matter of fact Chloë and Cupid were
always cheerfully disobedient.  She wished Shawn was home.  He had gone up the mountains to
a shooting-lodge, where was a party of men gathered to shoot red deer. He had been out overnight
and he would be very tired when he came home after a long drive on an outside car.  Well, after
all, it was better than Mustapha.  Patsy's unwillingness to see Sir Shawn go out on Mustapha
had infected her, little nervous as she was where horse-flesh was concerned.

She comforted herself.  It was not like those dreadful days when there had been trouble with
the tenants, and she had sat in this very room, listening in anguish for the sound of the horse's
hoofs coming fast. Terry had been away at his preparatory school then.  She had never told
any one her terrors.  Perhaps some of the servants had guessed them. She remembered the night
of the Big Wind, when Shawn had been out, and the house had shaken in the first onslaught of
the hurricane, before he came.

There was a butler's pantry close to the drawing-room door which had always an open window.
She had often stolen in there in the dark to listen for the sound of the mare's trot.  Fatima
had been Shawn's favourite mount in those days, and no one could mistake the sound of her delicate
feet in the distance.  There, with her ear to the night, Mary O'Gara had listened and listened,
her heart thumping so fast sometimes that she could not be sure if she heard the horse's hoofs.
Only, as she used to say joyously afterwards, there was really no mistaking Fatima's trot when
she was coming.

Once, Rafferty, the old butler, who was dead now, had opened the pantry door suddenly, and
had all but let the tray of Waterford glass he was carrying fall, for the fright she had given him.

She remembered how on that night of the Big Wind, when her terror was at its worst.  Patsy
Kenny had asked to see her about something or other; how she had gone into the office to talk
to him; how he had talked gently about Fatima, how sure-footed she was and how wise, and how
little likely to be frightened as long as she was carrying her master.  He had wandered off
into simple homely talk, about the supply of turf, how the fair had gone, the price the people
were getting for their beasts; now and again leaving off to say, when the moan of the wind
came and the house shook: "Glory be to God, it's goin' to be a wild night, so it is!"  Or "That
was a smart little clap o' win'.  It's a great blessin' to be on dry land to-night."

Patsy's way with the dumb beasts was well known; and Lady O'Gara had said afterwards, when
she had her husband warm and dry by the fire, and she too happy, being relieved of her terrors,
to mind the storm which had not yet reached anything like its height, that Patsy had soothed
her as though she were a nervous horse.

Shawn had been younger and stronger then.  He had laughed at her fears and had insisted on
making a night of it, keeping a roaring fire and lamplight all through the terrifying din,
while the servants in the kitchen said their Rosary and prayed for the night to be over. Sometime
in the wild late dawn, when the wind was subsiding, Shawn had made her go to bed, saying he
would follow.  But he had not come for a long time, and she had dropped asleep and wakened
to his weary face beside her bed, and to hear him saying that, thank God, they had got out
the horses, although the stables were all but in ruins.

As she thought over these things the fulness of her love for her husband swept her heart like
a Springtide.  It was sweet yet poignant, for she had the pity beyond all telling in her love
for Shawn. Suddenly she began to be a little in dread because she had been going against what
she knew were his wishes.  Would he mind very much if Terry's choice were Stella and not Eileen?
She hoped he would not--at first.  Later on, when he knew little Stella better, with her soft
appealing ways, he would be glad.  Eileen would never be such a dear little daughter.  Stella
had not those ardent eyes for nothing.

Her disinclination to let the winds of heaven blow too roughly on the men she loved, for whom
she had always the maternal pity, brought a sharp revulsion of feeling.  After all, the world
was for the young. They had never refused Terry anything.  In a detached way the father was
very fond of his boy.  He was not necessary to him.  No one was that except his wife: but he
had been a kind, indulgent father.  Why should not Terry wait a little till his father came
to know Stella better?  Things would be all right then.  Shawn had seemed to avoid Stella,
perhaps because he avoided Mrs. Comerford.

At last there was Terry's ringing step in the hall.  There could be little doubt to the mother's
mind of what tidings he brought.  There was triumph in the step.

He burst in on his mother like a young wind.

"Darling," he said, "I'm so very sorry not to have come home for tea. I simply couldn't induce
Stella to: she's so dreadfully shy, but she adores you.  Congratulate me!"

He placed his two young firm hands on his mother's shoulders, and stooping, he kissed her.

"I shall never love you any less, you know," he said boyishly.  "You angel, how you helped
us!  Not many mothers of an only boy would have done it."

To their ears came the sound of wheels, approaching the house, now near, now far, as the long
avenue turned and twisted.

"It is your father," said Lady O'Gara.  "He will be very tired.  Don't tell him yet, Terry.
He hardly knows Stella.  You are very young.  It will have to be something of a long engagement."

"Oh!" he said, but less disappointedly than she had feared, "You too! Mrs. Comerford said we
must wait.  I don't want to wait.  I want to shout out to the whole world that Stella is mine,
but, of course, I know.  Father would rather have had Eileen.  I have known Eileen since I
was eight years old.  Love does not come that way."

He was repeating her own words, her own thought.  She was relieved that he was so amenable.

"After all," she said roguishly, "there have been moments when you seemed on the edge of falling
in love with Eileen.  Last June we thought it was all but settled, your father and I."

"Oh," he said shamelessly, "when the true gods come the half-gods go."

Sir Shawn came into the room.  He was pale and tired and the shadows crept in the hollows of
his cheeks.  She was glad he was not to be disturbed by Terry's love-story to-night. As
with hundreds of knitting is my fatal blow to the arm torn off and I fight or against this
blow - and must not die yet Selim? - He has to - and I and Zulma are unhappy - yes, yes, it
must be, - I hear screaming about the voices that urging me to action. -

He pushed in a furious rush through the bushes and saw on the road already Rashid far ahead of
hastening the city. Frightened he runs after him and falls like wings behind him, her, his eyes
were not the way, his breath gasped loudly, often he bit crunching the Teeth. - At last he reached
him weak and unconscious. - Stop! cried he; - Hold on to your booty, cheaters!

Abdallah Rashid saw back and saw that he wanted him to escape again, but powerful Abdallah took his
arm and held him back. - No, you shall not escape me, screaming He furiously, here swear by a
terrible oath of Zulma going up - or the prophet! I miss our friendship, as you have forgotten
them.

Rashid wanted to make going on, but Abdallah beat his arms around him and held him with the Power
of a giant clung to his chest. - Back away by the sunshine, he said, you shall pine away in an
eternal darkness, abjure Zulma and throw your naughty wishes behind
you - ha!

Selim, my father, only the father can make you murder Zulma's worthy.

I do not swear! Rashid cried, - I shame! Zulma for ring I with you of life and death. -

He tried to throw with all the forces of Abdallah's arms, but he urged him close to him, Rashid
bit him with his teeth furiously in the arm to make himself free. - They struggled against each other
in a dull roar, strong throwing down and ago, the earth rumbled beneath their steps. - Finally
threw down the tired Abdallah Rashid, He knelt down on him. - Will you return Zulma "now? he
cried, and stared him with a iron glance. - No, no, and I must forever be condemned for it, no!
he yelled To Rashid. - Abdallah drew a dagger and struck him in the chest of the vanquished, a
large Blood flow fell and flowed out over the earth. - In convulsions died Rashid finally
drew a veil over his rigid protruded eye, he was pale and motionless.
-

Abdallah stood over him and looked at him with vicious glee. -
Why call you no longer Zulma's name from? he said, smiling bitterly,
"now you will be me they still abkämpfen do? - Can I rest now, without
fearing your hurry? - Now you will not win the worms take up possession!

Now she is mine, mine! o I want you to scream in the ears, until you swear again, - Zulma is
mine! - Ha, why are you so cold at the moment, no matter and become sluggish? - Do you love Zulma
any more? - It no longer deserves the homage of "now" your wishes? -

A sudden violent shudder fell him, he turned and fled with wind speed to the city.

Chapter Five.

He rushed wildly into the city and ran like a madman through the streets,
all important him timidly on his way out, we thought he was a madman
who his prison was sprung and everyone saw him for fear and pity.

He wandered around furiously and was now "in front of the palace
of the Sultan.

When he wanted to take the plunge, it held the bodyguard back. He wanted to push through by
force, he screamed loudly, you should, it would be Sultan to lead, we pushed him away like
a madman, but as he always anew and urgent always asked, they took him at last from his dagger
and made him enter the palace. Mehmed, the Wazir met him, Abdallah's knees were shaking, his voice was
a broken Babbling. The Vizier saw him suspiciously and finally went into the room of the Sultan.
- Abdallah stood trembling on the long way before the doors of the room, he no longer knew
who he was and what he wanted, temporary slaves regarded him with astonishment, like a niegesehenen
Stranger, he saw about shy, all went before him, back still a murderer. His condition was terrible,
and yet he wanted it renewed, he eagerly awaited the opening the door and could never imagine this
moment as real; a melancholy horror a strange despair that filled him with a cold joy reigned
in his soul. "Now it was worth nothing and nothing odious, he himself died, in a dull Contemplate lost,
he was to finally discover trouble, why he stood there and on what wait for it. - In each strip,
the sunshine broke through the window and he looked attentive to the little trembling rays
that wove together and apart again served, be unrelated eye was lost in careful consideration
of a hundred little things then he saw back to the slaves who spoke before him, trembling and
silent punishment in him when he would be ashamed of her looks. - In the distance the sound flew
a long Ganges, with its dead cold eye he looked, it was Zulma, that some slaves front of him
over went into a room, a veil covering her face, but he recognized its course and the brightness of
her eyes through the veil. All his furious bound Passions were suddenly released by iron bands
like whirlwinds that he was and found himself back again in the gruesome horror of each apartment.
He stared the gleam of her garment long after, she had not recognized him. - Where are you?
asked Santander thought him a wake up - and what do you want? - Ha! holds the damnation you again
the deceptive food from the poisonous Angel out, it was not Zulma people went through? - It is my
Zulma, he went on in, she is mine, now I go back and pay the big Purchase, hell gave me her prescription.
- Now, now, the terrible moment nearby, which prompts me to serious questioning, but he will
also pass the time devours mean everything. - But my luck will disappear, there will come
a time when I will say, Zulma was mine, and then? - No, no, I will be the time to forge their
broken wheels, lame it is to creep slowly from there. The joy of love to me drunk until I
am mad, and when I think Zulma in my arms, then to the Hinanwagen hell not to me, demanding their
guilt, O, I will, I will be happy - I will swear that I will not be miserable, the curse of Selim
hits me in paradise to, and flutters back shyly, Zulma I find in the virtue and God, but here
I want to worship, I myself will defy, the soul is despicable that has not courage, zurückzuschleudern
of himself was hostile to their hostilities break, only a timid, suffers through his cowardly consent
is the miserable wretch, - ha! I defy fate and the Almighty, I will boldly rugged Cliffs climb
and pluck with my Triumph hohnlachendem wreaths from the horrors, - who, who can forbid me to
be happy? Who wants to rule my naughty mind? Who Zulma's arms down to talk in misery in me? -
O try it 'to the Lord - to meet me his curses do not - my happiness is my virtue, without Zulma
I am unhappy, - virtue is a trivial sound, damning the judge in his bosom never felt humanity,
- A tyrannical iron laws fate has written for us, the Lord kept his Created for angels - he himself
does not understand humanity - that shattered this Laws, he will forgive once, or he is a tyrant
that animated the creation in order to their torment to look forward. -

The door of the room opened. The Vizier of the Sultan came out and led Abdallah in a grand room,
Ali sat in a cold fury outrageous on a chair and looked the entering Abdallah rigidly opposed,
the young man threw himself down before him.

A long silence. Ali looked at him seriously reduced, Abdallah did not dare to lift his eyes. His
senses had left him, he groaned aloud in a dead stupor. - What do you want? asked the Sultan finally
finished with unflinching coldness.

Abdallah took up his head and remained on her knees. - What do I want? - Answered He quietly.
- O this great, terrible, one moment I want. - "Now now"

He is there! - What I seek here? - Why did I get here? - Who are you?

He is mad! screamed Ali, away with that nonsense!

Slaves approached and wanted to take him away, Abdallah opposed them dumb, - No, he exclaimed
at last, leave me!

I must stay here, a great discovery led me from your throne, so listen to me. - Ali beckoned,
and the slaves away again.

Now speak! said Ali, or my anger, you do not go out of this room alive!

I

want to talk, "said Abdallah. Oh, I must speak of "now on I have no will continue. - O Zulma!
Zulma! - Ali, you've been offered a great treasure, you have promised to Zulma, deliver the
Selim your punishment would be.

Ali. Yes.

Abdallah. Will you keep your promise?

Ali. By the Prophet!

Abdallah. O it is mine! I bring you the secret, against which you must share it.

Ali jumped to his feet. - Selim? he cried, Selim?

O my throat yearns for the blood, ie it matter where he is?

Where can I find it?

Abdallah was silent. -

Say! Ali shouted again, my rage is on with new power in my bosom, foltre no longer my impatience
- or the prophet -

What have I done? Abdallah said. - Have I expressed it, that terrible word? Oh, no, no, I did not
say anything, I ask you Sultan, that is not true, I have nothing
said? - O let me, let me be silent, my words can become monsters who
think Breasts are hurting, I have come to the brink of damnation,
O let me once again walk backwards.

His body shook in a terrible fear that he would cancel, but he fell
again feebly down.

Insolent! Ali spoke in anger, you came here Naughty! to mock me? - You can not again claim back
what you said, say, or torture to the News torture out of you, which you refuse me. -

Abdallah. And it must be? the terrible question is decided for ever? - Well so be it!

He rose with difficulty, his voice trembling, his face was pale, his
eyes fixed. - He described the furious Ali the path that led to the
house of Selim, he told him the Signs by which one could see the path.

Ali ordered his bodyguards to go to this path Selim and to lead to
it. - Abdallah wanted this out again shaken out of the hall.

No, Ali said, it is not our game, you remain here to return to the Members; Are your messages have
been liars, so shall your life pay for your insolence.

Abdallah remained rigid and looked back down before him.

Ali. Did you speak truth, O then, this day is celebrated as a festival, celebration songs to rejoice
with the palace, roaring through the city a loud joy. What Selim Insolence has dared, dared not
mortal, he would punish, as no mortal has been punished. I will meditate on how I martre him,
all my moods I will indicate that a solid cast aside, today I will
be happy again after a long time.

Terrible I want to connect to my enemies, will devastate everything around me I know what I hate.
On Love may I hope not, but you should fear me always, as far as
it is with me not yet come, that you should despise me with impunity.
- I want the defiant shake see and should I my brain burst with Ersin
drying of torture; Selim denies my From humanity, because now he may
find a tiger in me.

Only I want to torture talk to him, the torture is to be my interpreter.

Abdallah trembling heard the words of Ali, he saw him with a stare of eyes, cold and without Live
like the face of a brazen image. Ali went on angrily:

O that life does not obey my call, one death is too little to expiate this sacrilege, I wanted
to whip him with scourges of fire and death by a hundred lives in the destruction thrown and
again startled into existence, I want to chase him with torment, until he in humility trembling
and begging for mercy erwin rare recent death as a gift. - If the
bad guy not enjoyed pleasures, that I never made the acquaintance?

I was not ever a Beggar against him? And low envy he gets me to steal even the last one Life,
a good that he despises, the only thing was I only left because these people he loves, have
taken from me everything.

My only Perl? - Oh sure, he will not pardon , Find, and if he could leave me all the treasures of his
breast as an heir.

Abdallah died under the weight of these thoughts, he could not longer
bear it, he tore by force his mind from this horrible ideas back.

And Zulma? he asked a trembling voice.

Ali. It's yours, it's your wife and you are my son, my kingdom is to experience it, that you are
my son. - Oh, I'm happy that this daughter, my pride, a bait become my revenge is rewarded by this
one fact, they my paternal tenderness.

Zulma mine? - Abdallah stammered. -

But who are you? asked Ali, you have not yet mentioned to me your
name.

Abdallah went in terror. - Who? he cried aloud. O that I might forget it! that this Souvenirs
are not so terribly hung on me! - Ha! who I am? - - No, no man, not a beast, no devil, - o
away with the shame! even this is not for the Rejected more. - I am his son.

Abdallah? Selim's son? cried Ali. -

I was once Abdallah, he said.

Ali went back pale, pale himself saw the entourage of the Sultan, a rigid horror to each, we
looked at the young man seized as an alien creature of humanity, his mother, had run away forever.

Your
return trip? Abdallah said. - Self Ali turned pale, so here before any human Feeling recoils,
ha this powerful lightning beam penetrates through the stone armor his bosom! he feels he is glad
that he is the man! How was it possible I jumped over this immense gap and was not crushed
in jumping? - Now I stand on the other side and stretch out his arms
to the past. - Ha! why pale her? - Your back still ride a criminal
who at the last frontier of terrible Vices has come ye afraid to call
me brother, - ah, a hard fate blows As dust around me, I must be who
I am. -

Ali looked at him long with an astonished gaze. - I have
just called you son, "he said but my son can not you - slowly and
quietly - Zulma you have left. -

Abdallah.

Because I have that name forever branded, ha!

Fathers of this sound move together and mothers shudder, since his father betrayed Abdallah, shaking
a cutting By feeling the breasts of the older ones, hell rejoice, the sky is crying, old men sharpen
daggers for the unborn grandson, my evil angel has his black book is closed and is idle to my
right, the deed terminates the list of my sins, all that I now can do, is not worthy to this
brilliant triumph.

All were silent and violent Abdallah said further:

Now I'm out exceeded the Gränzstein, O heavens, now I'm living beyond all people, oh, so take
from me the consciousness and my thoughts - what are they there,
I burned in the Wilderness? - Pouring down the madness in full red-hot
shells on me! can now "now", - I go mad, I feel it - I give you back
the spark that thou cruel have borrowed. - But the terrible fate calls:
No! Yes myself growing constantly the hemlock that makes me shake
in spasms of death, the consciousness damn pull 'I myself the fire
and flames Verdammnißquaalen around me, that mind is my hell, and
gives was never free again. - Now is also the last, the saddest withered
flower of hope I survived and am still of the despair I was, oh why
is our virtue and Quiet rock hard and not so unbreakable, as this
cold agonizing consciousness?

Unfortunately! said Ali, as it was possible -

Abdallah interrupted him: - Can I understand it myself? the fate and Zulma, - I have won this
award, what is it more if I myself this playful? - Zulma, Zulma is
to replace it all to me, ha! or I will once the judge accusing the
other side of bitter that he deceived me for my life to give me gleefully
offered a great exchange - and me maliciously betrayed -

Stop! said
Ali, who speaks madness out of you! you blaspheme the Lord, wretch!
- What helps it is that you fight firmly against the load, you will
never discard it. -

Ali saw rigid down before him, his face was mild,
his eyes more human.

He thought a thought to who made him melancholy.

Ha, Mehmed! he finally said and turned to his vizier. - Who blames me now, I despise the human
race?

Who may still grumble when I flaunting their accreditation certificate will not recognize as
valid? - You send one of their own, which her black Treachery discovered that exposes the despicable
fraud. Until now "I'm still feared, to err in this generation, but now my doubts are raised, I'm
convinced! What Selim has wanted of me, as his son whom he loves, who loves him against his own voice
screams? - Where should I honor, love out on me if contempt and perjury warning the frontiers
meet? Both these steward here they call themselves virtuous, and he proposes the assets in which
they entrusted to him and runs away servile with his prey. - O away from me, which boasts
the name of man! Their pride is humility, their virtues are only suppressed crimes, "now they will
find in me a relentless judge, which can be bribed by any dazzling shine. I want to pursue
their pride, to He is to humility, they sell a hell of worthlessness, her own sense are the hooks
that are taken prisoner for eternal damnation. Selim hated me because I hated the human race, because
I do not love as she could, he wanted the band of my life tear, that he trained for his humanity
and he disowned forever. - With Selim I will start my strict office, rather than despise I will
mock the seal now " to these wretches are so proud. It is virtue to pursue this breed, its general
Destruction would rejoice the earth and the sky. Selim is the first loot from me this nefarious
gang is thrown at him, I will sin boldly, to him they should see a sample of their persecution
and tremble. - He comes not to? I languish for his Seeing here, now I will go to meet him with boldness,
because our great controversy has decided to I won my charges, he should go together. All I want
to torment him tired and then throw him the first game of the plant tired to the death.

Abdallah had until now "lost in thought stood there, he had little Ali's words understood. Suddenly
another sound broke through the deaf mute his inner emptiness, a Daylight was unexpectedly among the
fleeting shadow, he awoke as if from a frenzy.

Powers of Heaven! he exclaimed suddenly so afraid - what did what I done? Ha! as I'm coming
here? - Who is it who speaks from my heart? this is not the essence, The once called Abdallah,
a stranger has thrown him out of his house and destroyed can his
apartment, o 'I rip it from the heart! - No, this has not before me
Man felt!

This fire inside my soul has suffered no mortal.

He fell down furiously.

Almighty! he cried. - What have I done? - Destroy me, horrible, so
I made this dream, wake up! - Only one, a thunder on my head, let
him by destroying my Roll heart and the flash flame through this breast,
- throw me down to hell, save only me from this feeling, let me just
save the condemnation of this torment! - Heaven! as a somnambulist
suddenly I wake up and find myself lost in a death-vault. - Tear with
hot chains, with poker that clinging dragon from my bosom, the furious
biting with sharp teeth into my guts! - Protect my spirits and beat
the hell hinanspringen those memories back to me! - O Ali, Ali, -
call your executioner and let me kill if there is a single human feeling
among the mouldering ruins, - You'll see only one thing, the last,
oh Then let me die. -

Ali saw cold on him. - You shall live, "he
said.


She was vexed about something.  It was not like Eileen to be capricious over her food.

Perhaps Lady O'Gara noticed the dissatisfaction and ascribed it to the fact that Eileen was
not having the attention she desired, so she drew gently out of a very interesting discussion
she was having with Major Evelyn and turned to little Earnshaw, an agreeably impudent boy,
with cheeks like a Winter apple and an irresistibly jolly smile.  He seemed to have got over
his first shyness with Stella and was conducting his veiled love-making with a rather charming
audacity.  Lady O'Gara had glanced a little anxiously once or twice at Terry, but there was
obviously only amusement at young Earnshaw's way in Terry's face.  He must be very sure of Stella.

"Don't mind him," he said across the table while she watched.  "He's very young and he's apt
to get excited when he stays up for dinner. Very often the Mess has to pack him off to bed."

Mary O'Gara smiled at the banter between the two boys.  Now and again she inclined an ear to
the conversation of Major Evelyn and Eileen. The big, handsome, jovial man of the world, whom
his subalterns, while evidently deeply admiring him, called "Cecil," did not find much to interest
him in Eileen, though he was too well-bred to show it.

Stella, laughing, put down her head with one of her bird-like movements.  Her hair was parted
in the centre and the thick masses of it, so much like plumage, went off in silken waves and
curls and was looped behind her little ears where it was combed up from her white neck.  She
was wearing green tonight, a vivid emerald green which would have tried a less beautiful complexion.

The movement, the close fine ripple of the hair, were like Mrs. Wade's; there was no reason
to doubt the relationship.  Would others see it? But Mrs. Wade hardly ever walked abroad. 
She seemed as much afraid of her fellow-creatures as any one could wish her to be.

Lady O'Gara found herself seeking for another likeness.  No; except for that slight redness
in the hair there was nothing she could discover of Terence Comerford.  She wondered vaguely
whether Grace Comerford had looked for such a likeness and been disappointed.

She let her thoughts slip away from things around her.  She asked herself whether in the circumstance
Mrs. Wade was a fit companion for her daughter, and answered herself, with a little scorn,
that there was nothing to fear from the mother's influence.  She remembered something she had
caught sight of at the end of a little cross-passage in Waterfall Cottage.  There was a statue,
a throbbing rosy lamp in the darkness.  Mrs. Wade was at 7 o'clock Mass at the Convent every
morning despite her recluse habits.  She was a good woman, whatever there was in her past.

Lady O'Gara recalled herself with a start to the things about her.  How long had her thoughts
been straying?  Not very long, for the plates were being taken away that had been full when
last she was aware of them.

Her eyes rested on Eileen's face.  A name caught her ear--Robin Gillespie.  Oh, that was the
doctor's son of whom Eileen had spoken with a certain consciousness.  Eileen's manner had suggested
that Robin Gillespie was in love with her, while she said: "Of course he has not a penny and
never will have."

Eileen was listening now, absorbed in what Major Evelyn was saying. Her lips were parted, her
eyes and colour bright.  The air of slackness which so often dulled her beauty had disappeared.
For once she was animated.

Major Evelyn perceived that his hostess was listening and turned to her with a courteous intention
to include her in the conversation.  He was charming to all women, this big man, with the irresistible
gaiety. Poor Eileen, she had been playing off all her little charms upon him, and in vain.
He showed openly his preference for an old woman, as Mary O'Gara called herself in her thoughts,
wincing a little.

"I've discovered that Miss Creagh knows Gillespie, the young doctor who has defied all the
Army Regulations.  It was quite an excitement in India.  The Rajah of Bundelpore had a very
bad attack of Indian cholera one night.  His own doctors could do nothing for him.  Some one--the
Rajah's heir who had been at Harrow, probably--sent over for the regimental doctor, who happened
to be Gillespie.  He found all sorts of devilry going on while the Rajah writhed and turned
black and green. Gillespie took him in hand--I heard his treatment was nearly as weird as that
of the native doctors.  There was something about blackberry jam stirred in boiling water for
an astringent drink.  Anyhow the Rajah pulled through.  He's got a constitution like a horse.
And as soon as he was well he presented Gillespie with a horse that was the very Kohinoor of
horses--Gillespie sold him, for a preposterous sum I believe, to Lord Nutwood--magnificent
jewels and a lakh of rupees."

"How much is a lakh of rupees?" Eileen asked with breathless interest.

"Oh, a big sum--somewhere about fifty thousand pounds.  The jewels are worth as much.  Then
came in the Indian Government and the Army Regulations.  They ordered Gillespie to return the
Rajah's gifts. Gillespie, who hadn't a penny to bless himself with--it was understood that
all he could squeeze out of his pay went home to his people in Ireland--snapped his fingers
at them.  They bid him choose between leaving the Service and giving up the Rajah's gifts.
Gillespie quite unhesitatingly--I believe they really thought there could be a question of
choice--gave up the Service.  I hear he's come home and means to set up as a specialist in
Cavendish Square.  They said there was a girl in the case, some girl who wouldn't have him,
and that took the savour even out of the lakh of rupees.  I don't suppose it's true.  Do you
happen to know him, Miss Creagh?  He is from your part of the world, Donegal way."

"My people know him quite well," said Eileen, her breath coming and going fast.  "Just fancy,
I never heard of it.  You'd have thought some one would have written to me."

She frowned, looking down at her plate.

At bed-time when Lady O'Gara, putting her own preoccupations aside, went to say good-night
to Eileen she found her in tears.

"My dear, what is it?" she asked in dismay.

"Oh, Cousin Mary--you know that story Major Evelyn told us about Robin Gillespie.  Well--isn't
it awful?" she broke into sobbing.  "I wouldn't listen to him when he asked me to be engaged
to him.  He said he knew he was a poor ... poor ... beggar, but ... with that to spur him on
... he could do anything.  I was ... horrid.  I told him to ask ... Brigid. He said it wasn't
Brigid he wanted ... it was me.  He got ... angry at last ... and now...  I know I loved him
... all the time."

Lady O'Gara troubled as she was, could not refrain from smiling, but as Eileen's tears apparently
had overtaken her during the process of brushing her hair, and the long mantle of greenish
grey, silver-gold hair hung about her face, Lady O'Gara's smile passed unnoticed.

"Do you think ... it would seem ... very forward of me to write to him?" asked Eileen; and
then looked from the curtain of her hair with wet eyes but a new hopefulness.

"I should ask Brigid.  He may have acted on your advice."

"Oh, but he hadn't time," said Eileen, whose strong point was not humour.  "He went away at
once, broken-hearted.  Besides, I should have known if he had made any advance to Brigid. 
Cousin Mary, would you mind very much if I went home for a little visit?  I know that I have
only just come back--but still..."

"Certainly not, Eileen."  Lady O'Gara had a feeling that just at present Eileen might be a
jarring element.  "Make your own arrangements, my dear.  I am very glad if it will make you
happier."

"Oh, thank you," said Eileen, with effusion.  "You are always so sympathetic and understanding,
darling Cousin Mary.  You see, if Robin has come back as Major Evelyn says, he might be with
his people just at this moment."

CHAPTER XVI

THE DEAD HAND

Terry came to his mother a week later with a look in his face which made her want to take his
young head in her arms and weep over it.  A shadow had fallen on his comely youth.  He looked
"grumpy," as he had been accustomed to look in his darling childhood when he was about to have
a croupy attack, at which times the sense of injury against all the world had been part humorous,
whole poignant, to his mother's mind.

"What is it, darling?" she asked, although she knew before he spoke what was the matter.

"I have been talking to Father," he broke out.  "Mother, it is intolerable.  He says he will
not consent to my engagement to Stella. As though he or anybody could prevent it."

"You have not quarrelled?" she asked in quick alarm, anxious for both her men.

He laughed angrily.

"Oh, we didn't shout at each other, if that is what you mean.  He told me he would never consent
to my engagement.  Why?  In the name of Heaven why?  I asked him that and he wouldn't answer
me.  He told me to come to you.  What bee has he got in his bonnet?  I should have thought--Stella
is a sort of little sister of Terence Comerford, from whom I am called, whose death I have
always understood shadowed Father's life.  Oh, I know you've been throwing cold water on me,
leading me up to this.  I knew when you would not let me shout it out that first night, as
I wanted to, before all the world.  Father said something about Eileen.  Ridiculous!  We have
never thought of each other.  As a matter of fact she has a young man of her own.  I always
knew he wanted me to marry Eileen.  As though I ever could have married any one but Stella!"

She did not at all resent her husband's laying the burden of comfort upon her.  He had always
left Terry to her.

She looked at his young angry face.  He was ramping up and down the little boudoir like an
animal in a cage.  He was adorably young and she loved him.  What was she to say?

"I'm not a child," Terry went on.  "Things can't stand like this, as Father expects them to,
apparently.  One doesn't throw over a girl one loves better than life for no reason at all,
and Father will give none except that the marriage is unsuitable.  How can it be unsuitable
except that I am so unworthy of her?  Mother"--he stopped suddenly in his pacing to and fro--"you
can do anything with Father.  Make him see sense.  You know my whole happiness depends on this--and
hers.  It has gone deep with me."

Suddenly he turned away, and putting his two arms on the mantelpiece he laid down his face
upon them.

She went to him and stroked his hair softly.  He looked up at her and his eyes were miserable,
and so young.

"Darling," he said, "you have always been good to me.  Can't you talk Father over?  I am going
away to-morrow.  If he persists in this insanity I shall chuck my commission, go off to Canada
and try to make a home there for Stella."

"Terry!"  The name was wrung from her like a cry.

"You see I couldn't stay, darling, hanging round in the hope that Father might change his mind.
I couldn't stick being engaged and not engaged.  I should hate to leave you, of course, darling,
but then you wouldn't come.  You'd never leave Father.  He says his decision is final, but
he gives me no reason for it.  It is the maddest way of treating a man I ever heard.  What
does he mean by it?"

"He was always a very indulgent father, Terry.  If he refuses you a thing you desire so much
he must have a good reason."

She felt the feebleness of her plea even before he turned and looked at her.

"That is really foolish, Mother," he said.  "I beg your pardon if I am rude.  I'm not a child,
to be kept in the dark and told that my elders know what is best for me.  Do you know his reasons?"

She had been dreading the question, yet she was unprepared with an answer.

"I see you do," he went on grimly.  "But of course you won't tell me, if Father will not, though
he sent me to you."

The poor lady was profoundly wretched.  Tears were not far off.  She would not for the world
have wept before the boy.  He had enough to bear without her tears.

"Where is your father?" she asked.

"He is in his office.  You will speak to him?  You angel!  Tell him how impossible it is that
Stella and I could give up each other.  You love her, Mother, don't you?  The bird-like thing!
I remember you said at first that she was like a bird.  She has flown into my heart and I cannot
turn her out.  Say..."

"I will say all I Can, Terry.  Do you feel fit to go back to the others?"

"They don't want me.  They are quite happy knocking about the billiard-balls.  Evelyn would
know, and I don't think I could stand little Earnshaw's chaffing ways."

Boyishly he looked at himself in the glass.  He had rumpled his hair out of its usual order.
There was a bright colour in his cheeks.  He looked brilliantly handsome.  What he said was:

"Lord, what an outsider I look!"

She left him there and went off to look for her husband.  Her heart was very heavy.  Already
she knew that the compromise she had to suggest would be received with scorn.  It was a weak
womanly compromise, just the kind of thing a man will put his foot on and squelch utterly.

He turned round as she came in.

"Well, Mary," he said.  "I've been having a very unpleasant discussion with Terry.  It ended
where it began.  He would not listen to me."

She came and stood behind his chair.  The fire was low in the grate. There was the intolerable
smell of a smoking lamp in the room.  The reading-lamp on the table was flaring.  She turned
it down and replenished the fire.  The discomfort of it all--the room felt cold and dismal--depressed
her further.

"The poor boy!" she said.  "What are we to do, Shawn?  You can't expect him to give up Stella
without any explanation.  He would be a poor creature if he could--not your son or mine.  Shawn,
you will have to tell him.  How could you leave it to me?"

"And if I do, what then?"

She shook her head.  She did not know what then: or rather she did not wish to answer the question.

She was sitting on the arm of his chair.  He leant his head against her wearily.  In the glass
above the chimney-piece, tilted towards them, she saw his face and was frightened.  Were the
purple shadows really there, or did she only imagine them?

"If such a story had been told to me about you, Mary," he asked, "do you suppose it would have
made any difference?  I would have said like an ancestor of mine:

  "Has the pearl less whiteness
    Because of its birth?
  Has the violet less brightness
    For growing near earth?

That is what any lover worth his salt would say: yet when one is older and very proud of one's
family the bar sinister is not a thing to be thought of."

"You said yourself that Bridyeen was an innocent creature.  You forgave Terence, who was her
tempter.  You love his memory and you have called your one son after him.  Is it fair, is it just?"

She was frightened at her own temerity.  The subject of Terence Comerford had always been like
an open wound to her husband.

"Did I forgive Terence?" he asked with a wonder that had something child-like about it; "I
was very angry with Terence, dreadfully angry. Do you remember that passage, Mary?

  "Alas they had been friends in youth;

you know how it goes on:

  "And to be wroth with one we love
  Doth work like madness in the brain."

She had slipped an arm about his neck, and her hand went on softly caressing his cheek.

"I think we shall have to tell Terry," she said, "if we persist in our refusal.  We could not
take up such an untenable position. Unless..."--she hesitated.

"Go on, Mary," he said.

"Unless we were to accept Grace's story of Stella's birth.  Why should it not be true?"  She
asked the question piteously.  "Are you sure, Shawn, about the other thing?"

But while she said it she remembered Stella's likeness to Mrs. Wade. Why, any one might see
it, any one.  A new fear sprang up in her heart, troubled by many fears.  This time it was
for Stella.  Any day, any hour, some one besides herself might discover that likeness.  Why,
for all she knew the place buzzed with it already.  Sooner or later some one would recognize
Mrs. Wade as Bridyeen Sweeney.  Then it would be easy to piece the old story together.  Already
people had noticed that Stella had the Comerford colour, which had been, in her own case, the
Creagh colour.  Grace Comerford ought not to have come back.  Shawn was quite right.  She ought
not to have come back.

"You are a very clever woman, Mary.  But it seems to me a cheap novel kind of suggestion. 
I think we must face the thing as it is.  I shall tell Terry to-night."

Terry was told.  He came to his mother's room after hearing the story. She had been expecting
him.  In the end her men always brought her their troubles.  So she had piled up a bright fire,
had set a couple of softly cushioned chairs side by side, as though the physical comfort would
reach the wounded spirit.  She smiled to herself rather piteously at the thought.  Men were
susceptible to comfort, to being petted, no matter at what age one loved them, or in what grief
one would comfort them.

She was in her silk dressing gown, her hair in two long plaits before Terry came.  Despite
his miserable preoccupation his face lightened at sight of her.

"How sweet you look, Mother!" he said.  "And so young with your hair like that."

"Come and sit down, my darling boy."

He came and sat by her, and presently he laid his face on her shoulder to conceal, she divined,
set eyes.

"What am I to do, Mothereen, at all, at all?" he asked, going back to the phraseology of his
nursery days.

"Your father has told you?"

"Yes, he has told me."

"It is pretty bad," she said compassionately.

"Mother," he lifted his face and his eyes were bloodshot.  "Why did you call me after that
villain?  Why does my father love him still?  I have never heard you say one word against him."

She flinched before the accusation.

"Dear," she said.  "I have only just been told of this.  Your father kept it from me all those
years."

"And you were engaged to him at the time!  Good Lord!" he broke out with young passion.  "Don't
tell me, Mother, that there is any excuse for him.  I could not bear that from you.  One law
for the man, another for the woman: it is the easy way of the world.  My poor little darling!"

Suddenly he choked and got up and went away from her.  She found nothing to say.

He was back again in a second, while she watched him helplessly.

"I don't want her to know," he said.  "She must not know.  What am I to do?  She ought to enter
this family as its loved and honoured daughter. Mother, I do not intend to give her up."

She had been waiting for it.  If he had said otherwise she would have been bitterly disappointed,
however much she might have tried to deceive herself.  It was a pity, a thousand pities, the
child could not have come to them without that smirch.  But it had not touched her: there was
no stain on her.  Thinking upon Stella's mother she said to herself that no levity in the girl
she had been had led to her downfall.  Why, Shawn had said she was the simplest, whitest of
creatures.  It made Terence's sin all the blacker.

She drew her boy's head down to her and kissed it.

"I did not ask you to give her up," she said.  "I do not take the world's view of such things."

He looked at her with an incredible incredulous relief.

"You angel mother!" he said with a deep sigh.  "I might have trusted you.  There is one thing.
Stella must never know."

"She must never know," she repeated after him.

Her husband's foot sounded in the adjoining room and Terry went away comforted.  Shawn did
not come in to say good-night to her as usual, by which omission she conjectured the trouble
of his mind.  She prayed for light, almost in despair of finding it, and slept, although she
had expected to lie awake, seeking unhappily a way out of this threatening sorrow for all dear
to her.

She awoke somewhere in the small hours.  The moon was on her bed and the air was very cold.
She came awake suddenly, with a thought in her mind so concrete that it was as though some
one had spoken it aloud.

"Is it quite certain that Terence did not marry Bridyeen Sweeney?"

She caught at it as a drowning man catches at a straw.  Her heart gave a wild bound towards
it.  It was so thin, so frail a hope, that while her fingers closed upon it she knew the futility.
Again she slept, and the thought was with her when she awoke in the grey morning.

CHAPTER XVII

MISS BRENNAN

She was grateful to the exigencies of the Service which made it absolutely necessary for Terry
to be back in barracks next day.  He had gone off after breakfast with Major Evelyn and Mr.
Earnshaw, forbidding her to come to see him off.  Sir Shawn, who was High Sheriff for the year
and had to be in the county town for the opening of the Assizes, took the party to the station
on his way.  She was left with the morning on her hands.

How to use it?  Oh, she had been impatient for them to be gone!  The hope which had seemed
so frail in the night had strengthened and failed, strengthened and failed many times since.
This morning it was strong within her.  It was founded on so little.  Terry had called Terence
Comerford hard names last night.  A villain.  She did not think Terence was a villain.  He
had been a kindly, affectionate fellow, very quick to be angry about a cruelty to any helpless
thing.  A good heart: oh, yes, Terence had had a good heart: but, even to her had come the
dreary knowledge that good-hearted people can be very cruel in their sins.

She had looked at it from many points of view.  Supposing Terence had meant to marry the girl
and been prevented by his sudden death! Something came into her mind, dreary and terrible.
"The way to Hell is paved with good intentions."  Poor Terence, who had laid this coil for
their feet, tangling their lives and happiness in the meshes of his passion, had he been paving
Hell, just paving Hell, with good intentions never to be realized?

Early as they had started she had found time to speak to her husband about the possibility
of there having been a marriage.  He had found her beside his bed full-dressed when he opened
his eyes on the grey morning.

"Shawn," she had said, "Could Terence have married Bridyeen Sweeney?"

The maze of sleep was still in his eyes.  For a moment he stared at her as though she had given
him a new idea.  Then he turned away fretfully.

"No," he said, "no.  Put that out of your head.  If it was so would he have let me go on suffering
as I did?  It was the whiskey was at the root of the trouble.  He would never have spoken to
me as he did if it had not been for the whiskey."

She passed over the irrelevancy.  Shawn was not yet all awake.

"Would he have righted her if he had lived, do you think, Shawn?"

"My God, Mary, how can I tell?  Why do you torture me with such senseless questions?  You know
how that old tragedy has power to upset me.

"I'm sorry, Shawn," she said humbly.  "It was for the boy's sake."

She left him, his face turned to the wall, her heart heavy because the hope had failed.  But
a little later she had the house to herself, and the hope came back again and asked the insistent
question.

She was going to see Mrs. Wade for herself and discover if there was hope for Terry and Stella.
Common sense whispered at her ear, that it was not likely Mrs. Wade would choose to be Mrs.
Wade all those years if she might have been Mrs. Terence Comerford, living at Inch, honoured
and with the love of her child.  She would not listen to that chilling whisper.  She had known
many strange things in life, quite contrary to common sense.  It would not be common sense
now for Terry to want to marry a girl born out of wedlock.  It would not be common sense that
the girl should be kept in ignorance of the stain on her birth.  But these things happened.--A
wryness came to Mary O'Gara's sweet mouth with the thought that if Terry married Stella his
children would be born of a nameless mother.  So the world was so strong in her! Scornfully
in her own mind she defied the world.

She took a roundabout way to Waterfall Cottage, because she did not want the slight interruption
of speaking to Susan Horridge if she went out by the South lodge, the nearest way.  By a détour
through her own park she entered O'Hart property, which had been in Chancery since she remembered
it, the house going to rack and ruin.  Her way led her round by the Mount in which was the
tomb of old Hercules.

The earth was warmly beautiful, covered with the rust-coloured Autumn leaves.

Under the trees overlooking the river there were many strangely coloured fungi pushing in rows
and ranks from the damp earth on which the foot slid, for it was covered thickly by a moss
that exuded slimy stuff when trodden upon as though it was seaweed.

She was just by the vault where the Admiral's coffin stood on its shelf, plain to be seen by
any one who had the temerity to peep through the barred grating in the iron door.  Suddenly
a little figure dipped in front of her and she recognized Miss Brennan, who had once been a
lady's maid to a Mrs. O'Hart and had survived the provision made for her before the O'Harts
were off the face of the earth.  She had come to live in one of the dilapidated lodges on the
place, with very little between her and starvation beyond the old-age pension, supplemented
by contributions from charity.  The old woman was nearer ninety than eighty, but was still
lively and intelligent, despite her eccentricity. The big apron she was wearing was full of
sticks and she had a bundle in her arms as well.

"Good morning, my Lady," she said, with her little dip.  She always prided herself on her superior
manners and her traditions, and the neighbours good-naturedly acknowledged her pretensions
by addressing her always as Miss Brennan.

"Good morning, Lizzie," returned Lady O'Gara, who was one of the privileged ones to call the
old woman by her name.  "How are you keeping?  It is very rheumatic weather, I'm afraid."

"I'm as well as can be since your Ladyship gave me the beautiful boarded floor to my little
place, may the Lord reward you!  Squealin' and scurryin' I do hear the rats under the floor,
but I'm not afraid now that they'll bite my nose off when I fall asleep."

"I wish I could make it more comfortable for you.  Lizzie.  I'll see that you get a couple
of cribs of turf.  Your lodge is damp under the trees."

"Thank your Ladyship," said the old woman with another dip.  "I'm wonderful souple in my limbs,
considerin' everythin'; for the same house would give a snipe a cowld.  The blankets are a
great comfort. They're as warm as Injia."

"Oh, I'm glad of that."

She was about to go on her way when Miss Brennan jerked her thumb backward in the direction
of Waterfall Cottage.

"She's gone," she said.

"Who is gone?"

"Mrs. Wade, she calls herself.  I knew as soon as ever I laid eyes on her she was little Bride
Sweeney, old Judy Dowd's granddaughter.  She kep' out of the way o' the people that might ha'
known her.  She stopped to spake to me one day I was pickin' sticks an' brought me in an' made
me a lovely cup o' tay.  She thought I was too old to remember.  The little lady that's at
Inch now would be her little girl. I've seen them together when they didn't know any wan was
lookin'. Them beautiful pink curtains don't meet well.  I've seen little Missie on a footstool
before the fire an' the mother adorin' her."

Lady O'Gara was overwhelmed.  What had been happening during the days--there were not twenty
of them--since she had first taken Stella to see Mrs. Wade.

"When little Missie wasn't there Bridyeen would be huggin' the dog the same as if he was a
babby.  Some people make too much o' dogs.  I kep' my old Shep tied up till he died.  He was
wicked and I wasn't afraid o' tinkers with him about.  I saw her once when she didn't think
any wan was peepin' in.  She was cryin' on the dog's head an' him standin' patient, lickin'
her now and again with his tongue.  I never could bear the lick of a dog."

Lizzie looked at Lady O'Gara with the most cunning eyes.  Apparently she expected contradiction,
but she met with none.  Lady O'Gara was in fact too dumbfounded to answer.

"Many's the time I took notice of Bridyeen," the old woman went on. "She was well brought up.
She respected ould people.  When she wint away out of the place I said nothin', whatever I
guessed.  I said nothin' all those years.  It was to me she kem when Mr. Terence Comerford
was kilt.  'Tisn't likely I wouldn't know her when I seen her agin.  What's twinty years when
you're my age?  She didn't say I'd made a mistake when I called her Bridyeen.  She's gone now,
an' I'll miss her.  'Tis a lonesome road without a friend on it, for I'm too ould to take to
an Englishwoman, though yon's a quiet crathur at the lodge."

Lady O'Gara was recovering her power of speech.  Still she did not feel able to contradict
this terrible old woman of the bright piercing eyes, with whom it seemed useless to have any
subterfuges.

"You don't be afeard I'll tell, me Lady.  I keep meself to meself, away from the commonality
round about here.  She needn't have gone for me. I'd have held my tongue.  'Twasn't likely
I'd want to set tongues clackin' about her that was good to me.  As I sez to the little lady...."

Terror seized upon Lady O'Gara.  What had the old woman said to Stella?

"You didn't tell the young lady anything?" she said, very gently, remembering not to frighten
the frail old creature before her.

"Not me.  I said no more than 'Your Mamma's left.'"  She looked with a peering anxiety into
Lady O'Gara's face, as though she had just begun to doubt her own wisdom.  "I didn't do any
harm sayin' them words, did I?  Didn't I know they was that to each other, seein' them through
the chink in the curtain lovin' an' kissin'?"

Was it possible that Stella knew?  Anyhow it was no use frightening old Lizzie.

"No, no," Lady O'Gara said.  "You did nothing wrong.  Only remember, I depend on you for silence.
The people are so fond of gossip about here like all country-people."

"I let them go their own ways an' I go mine," Miss Brennan said, and looked down at the sticks
which she had dropped.  "I don't know who's goin' to pick them up," she said plaintively. 
"I've picked them up wance an' me ould knees are goin' under me.  I don't consider I could
do it twicet."

"I'll pick them up and carry them for you," Lady O'Gara said.  "It is not far to your lodge.
Indeed you ought not to be picking up sticks or carrying them.  I'll speak to Patsy Kenny.
He'll see that some dry wood is sent down to you, as much as you want.  You have only to ask
for it to have it any time.  That is, if I forget."

"Thank your Ladyship kindly," Miss Brennan said with one of the dips which perhaps kept her
limbs "souple" as she said.  "I'll be glad o' the dry sticks.  The green do be makin' me cry.
All the same I like to pick up sticks.  Isn't it what the Lord sends us, what matter if they're
green itself.  'Tis the chancey things I love havin'--the musharoons and the blackberries,--straight
from God, I call them.  But I couldn't let your Ladyship carry sticks for the like o' me. 
I hope I know me place better.  If your Ladyship was to give me a hoosh up wid them?  My back's
not too bent if only they was to be tied in a bundle."

She performed a series of little dips which would have made Lady O'Gara smile at another time.

"The sticks are very light," she said.  "Supposing we share the burden? Then we can talk as
we go along.  I suppose there never will be any news of Mr. Florence O'Hart, who went to Australia
and was lost sight of?"

It was enough for Miss Brennan, who forgot even to protest when Lady O'Gara took the big bundle
of sticks and gave her a few light ones to carry.  She could always be set off chattering on
the topic of the O'Hart who might have survived the family debâcle and might come home one
day to restore the fallen splendours of the place.  Lady O'Gara walked as far as the lodge
with the old woman, and laid the sticks away in the corner by the fireplace.  It was a very
short distance, though it counted as long to Miss Brennan.

As she went back along the road, the old woman, watching her disappear through the arch of
orange and scarlet and pale fluttering gold, for the trees were not yet bare, talked to herself.

"There she goes!" she said, "an' she's proud to the proud an' humble to the humble.  'Tis the
great day for you, Lizzie Brennan, to have the likes o' Lady O'Gara carryin' home your bits
o' sticks.  I hope I wasn't wrong sayin' what I did to the little lady.  It seemed to get on
her mind, for she wasn't listenin' to what I was sayin' for all she kep' her head towards me.
Still an' all little Missie couldn't be without knowin' the light in a mother's eyes whin she
seen it."

CHAPTER XVIII

THE DAUGHTER

Lady O'Gara went away quickly from the rusty gate overhung by ivy, not looking back to see
how Miss Brennan watched her out of sight.  She had not indeed heard one word of what the old
woman had been saying about the O'Harts.  She was dreadfully perturbed.  The fair placidity
of her face was broken up.  In either cheek two spots of vivid colour pulsed. Seeing them one
would have said she was in pain.

She hastened back along the tree-overhung road, over the dead leaves where the fine silver
veining of last night's frost was yielding to a sodden dampness, to the gate of Waterfall Cottage.

She had half-expected to find it locked, but it was open.  There was a thick carpet of dead
leaves on the gravel sweep.  Between the boughs sparsely clothed with leaves and the slender
tree-trunks she caught a glimpse of the bronze and amber river running over its stones, or
winding about the big dripping boulders that were in the bed of the stream.  A damp, rheumatic
place, she said to herself, although she loved the river; and its backwaters, full of wild
duck and dabchick and the moorhens, were enchanting places.

The grounds which she remembered as neglected and overgrown had become orderly.  The little
beds cut in the turf were neat in their Winter bareness, despite a few dead leaves which had
fluttered on to them. Her eyes fell on a pair of gardening gloves and a trowel lying on the
grass by one of the beds.  From the open mouth of a brown paper bag a bulb had partly rolled
before it became stationary.  There was a hole dug in the turf.  Some one had been planting
bulbs and had gone away leaving the task unfinished.

From the house-wall hung a branch of clematis torn down by the rough wind.  A ladder stood
close by.  Some one had had the intention of nailing up the branch, and had not carried it
into effect.

She lifted her hand to the knocker and found that the door yielded to her slight touch.  It
was open.  For a second she had a wild thought that Miss Brennan might have been wandering
in her wits--that Mrs. Wade, or Bridyeen Sweeney--she had come to calling her that in her mind--was
still in the house.

She looked into the little hall.  It was bright with a long ray from the white sun that peered
below a cloud, seeming to her dazzled eyes surrounded by a coruscation of coloured rays.  The
white sun portended rain to come, probably in the afternoon.

Shot had pushed his way before her into the hall.  She had almost forgotten that Shot had come
with her when she had left the Poms at home because of the muddy roads.  He had disappeared
into Mrs. Wade's little parlour.  The plume of his fine tail caught a flash from the sun's
rays on its burnished bronze.  She heard the dog whine. They spoke of the wonders he had done formerly, and which the
people trembled in humility would be an awful punishment, that it is in the enemies avenged, his
name was the watchword for terror. "

"Him I wanted to visit and urge me to his awful size, here the flame of my Gulf cool, or find
the inevitable destruction. - I wandered through the deserts of Africa, I went over the high mountains
and vast approached at last the long hoped Area. The mountain was piled terrible, like the wall
in the world before me, the clouds the sky seemed averse to flutter around the foot is lifted and cheeky
clip the tips of the mountains in the infinite void of the ether, higher and higher up rolls
and more terrible piled and bolder.

"

"I covered most mountains, the hills as opposed to only the unbounded rock wall mounted. The
earth was under me, with all its treasures and cities spread out and seemed to me good-bye to
say, pouring out the immensely deep sea below me. waved in a thousand glories me back to mortality,
she stretched her arms lovingly made for her lost son and called me back to her maternal bosom, where
I was in my mind with childhood had hung so intimate love. - But I went forward and left back here,
my man, I threw everything away from me, what was the mortality, I tore asunder forever the great
bond the me of the creation was, I put forward the foot, from this moment all my inherent
humanity behind me to shut up forever, I am forever in the infinity
to be rejected out of the sea, by any bank ever been waving back.

"

"My path wound ascend steeper the cliffs, always unfriendly nature around, the trees died, the
shrubs, and finally became extinct, the last glimmer of the green Grass under my feet. - "Now
the earth and the sea was blurred in an uncertain like a mist in my eyes, as wrapped in a black
veil, so far my Sky-view ventured over to me and me and my next steps, the infinite thoughtless
void. - At each step, a tougher tanks moved to my chest, no my former feelings dared to follow
me into the iron stay, only bare rocks and the sky surrounded 'I had already forgotten that I once
was a man is ". -

"I came in areas that seemed to have created the
nature in their last fatigue, no Life, no moss creeping up the rocks
reminded me of the world I leave had.

This seemed the death of his dwelling to have a world here once seemed lost and this is their
ghastly ruins. A cold dread accompanied me, ever larger Horrors came to meet me, all my feelings
were gradually in my chest As, and nothing but my intent and consciousness of my existence I was
left. "

""

Now I was standing on a rocky peak that looked down into a valley, the bare rings of black Cliffs
was included, a horror brooded over the abyss into which a thousand caves demolished and a building
were confused, no breeze rustled through the rocky desert, no Tone that betrayed a life, crept
forth, and the rocks split grinßten me from the abyss contrary, the destruction here saw themselves
with pleasure and overheard in the ghastly silence. "

"This is his home! I cried out involuntarily, and the first sound threw himself smashed winding down
the cliffs, I drove myself back in alarm and the sound was lost whining in the most remote gorges.
"

"The last fear took hold of me doubtful. - Shall I descend? I wondered quietly. - Yet, I still open
the way back! Yet I must own command over my will. - But what I do in the world? - An angel
must be a man I do not like, only the The hell is left unsatisfied, - I can not help it, I would
not man- bring back again - and at the same time I descended into
the valley terrible.

"

"How cold with a thousand arms, it kept me bracketed, as step in the inexorable death I went down.

Suddenly
I started back, trembling. - In a semi-dark cave sat an old man, smiling meet me with a kindness
that more resembled the Zähngeknirsch a monster. A white beard fell down to his feet and covered his
face. A strange incomprehensible to me Beings saw from his wild eyes, he had only the appearance
of a man, for humanity shrink back from him. - The sight had me shaken to the depths of my soul and
I did not dare to throw him in the eyes for a second: I had every gentle Feelings may leave,
and recorded the horror confidence in my breasts - but here I was a creature before my cheek
humility was, all my audacity to dissolved in anxious dread. "

"Who are you? he called to meet me in tones, as without sound and breath, they came to me as
from another world, and spoke in accents from which no mortal ear is a punishment has and can
have. "

"A creature, I screamed at him, which does not understand myself! My man got ' I moved out beyond
those cliffs! - Life has no charm for me, I want to be Wilderness
looking for my joy.

"

"Mondal floated toward me and stared at me with a look of great strength to my soul squeezed.
"

"You're the first person, he said, sees my face, I sit here and almost the Ever meet, and still
no Staubgeborner has dared to visit me in my home, I play with the horror and terror I shorten
the time. - What are you doing here?

"-

"What I find here or anywhere, I replied, trembling, I am ashamed to be human, you take me in
your society and Grant that that I understand your mind and you would
like. "

"He saw me and burst out horribly, that the rocks around wavered in their roots. - Measure!
then he cried: - You deny the humanity and yet show your words, that you have been listening to
her. A spark that lit up across from me to you, would your being . Burst Thank my contempt
for it that my vision does not kill you! "

"Well then, I spoke with crunching despair, so all I had no hope,
as my destruction!

"

"Extermination? replied the Terrible and moved his mouth to smile, so cold and dead as the rocks
around. What is can not be destroyed, forever holding you tight, so long the time it takes
you pity yourself you can kill yourself and stand at the very moment
you are a new being in your condemnation again, - it has willed the
Good there, of everything with his gentleness enfolds.

Oh! if destruction would be possible if we ourselves were members and dominated - o then happiness
would be in his creation! "-

"I started back in horror. - Full cheek You come here, 'continued Mondal, and did not consider
that your character could never approach the mine. - No, mortal,
all you can understand me not, for a thousand natures stand between
us and the idea which you understand, are not my thoughts, our primary
matter is different, we can we encounter in any sense.

"

"Where will I find it, I cried with bitter indignation, a being who understands me? I everything
closed, no sound in all creation, the anschlüge in me the same.

Destroy this tendency in my chest that would push me through all worlds, you despise me as
your students humiliate me to the worm, which is dull and without your consciousness Overcomes
feet. "

"I do not reject you," said Mondal, your nature has caught up! I give thee, what I can - but
you will not meet my conditions. "

"All, all said, I hastily, - just tear me from this painful life, grant that I do not despise
me shall, should I also hate me for it! "-

"Mondal said nothing for a while, then said: I do not stand for humanity,
I'm just a strange creature, whose thoughts and feelings are rays
that never contain the People come together in a light, but come back
on forever.

The people of those who drive their God to arrange everything and bring in a whole, my joy is destruction.
to do your instincts enough to work in an eternal activity of order and harmony, Slaves of
a master whom they want to flatter by beauty and virtue they call the Building they perform,
for me it is no virtue as their vices. - You see your innate humanity until the last drop weakest
punishment and I fully trust the Can shake hands, a hoarse discord
give you just as much fun as that sounds good down there, you lose
nothing in that God up there, then you are mine!

"

"I gave him strength forced his hand."

"Destruction! he exclaimed with savage joy, your breath was destruction, each pulse of a crime pursuing
their virtue and be the friend of evil, return to the world and tear the Tissue with which they
want to build on their deity, so conjure me with a large Oath and
under these conditions, I will show you what no eye sees.

Fern is still the last Day, we want to act until the time for old men. "-

Omar was here in his story. - "And you swore an oath," I cried in terror?. -

"I swore to him," he replied slowly, and said further: "It was a vow, oh, more trees like a
curse, under which would have frightened the earth, I dare not wait to him in repeating ideas.
"-

was "like a curtain across it before my soul, all my thoughts had grown into giants, the anstürmten
against the sky, my former boldness seemed to me now "cowardice, all my Feelings were brazen,
my heart diamond. "

"I was inaugurated into his terrible secrets, curses me blessed, horror rose to meet me in the endless
mazes and horror were my refreshment. My Thoughts thought in the thinking, I was also paced
the farthest Gränzstein of humanity changed and now, a strange pilgrimage, to life beyond the withered
heath. - The past returned my call, the future ended up on my looks. - Mondal showed me a enormous
book, which were drawn in on each of its millions of leaves thousand points. - This is my almanac,
he said, smiling, as many points do you see wiped out, so many Days have I lived through the rest
of the days that are still up to the last days left their number is uncountable, but finally
wears out gradually the time, even the last Point will be wiped out and converts the newborn
eternity of the ruin of the worlds.

Until then does my eye, what will happen then, is a secret which I have been around for thousands of
strive to reveal. "

"My business has now ended and I went back into the world not to live and to enjoy; but to destroy
life and enjoyment. All my former pleasures to me were like so many enemy, I was devastated and
destroyed, so far only my power, handed lamentation followed my steps and curses of the widows
and orphans, my road was wet with tears and grave mounds were the monuments that spoke of my journey.
- The Lord had me referenced in a life that I despise and I saturated myself in the pleasure of
revenge, he himself could reach my arm, but his creatures had to suffer my wrath! The existence
tormented me as a certain fear, destruction was not possible, curses not enough, I had to punish
him. "-

"I came was in my country and the Sultan Ali my friend, he was going to his subjects be a good prince,
but I taught him humanity and virtue contemptible and he finally came to that cold cruelty
which made his name a terror in the country added. By me fall, he had thousands and thousands
of victims a prey to the defect, among them was Selim, Ali took him
his treasures, Selim escaped with his wife and a small son, the wife
had to die and him only his son violently quaalvolles retain a life.
- I went among the people in an eternal loneliness as subservient
henchmen ran terror in front of me and beat violently every feeling,
back everyone thought of me - I found the poor, formerly happy Selim,
crying sitting on the grave of his wife - because I flew like a distant
glow of desire over, again to enter the desecrated religious people.
- In this unfortunate moment I forgot my office and my Lord, and let
the grieving Selim in the bosom of happiness To return my power let
him find a treasure, who replaced him three times what he lost had.
- O how have I cursed for years that single moment, how much would
I have he returned and exchanged Selim's luck with nine times the
pity if it the magician granted, would destroy his own work again.

"

"Unstoppable, it chased me for this time back to Mondal apartment, I struggled in vain against
the urging force. - Mondal me opposed. You come back so early? said he as awful sneer, - you
have renounced your humanity, your confidence was so cheeky - and yet You come back himself,
to accuse you?

Silently he walked me to a distant verzackten, lonely sea cliff, he split a rock and threw
me to the Hips in the opening, the thundering jumped together again. "-

"I am crushed unspeakable tortures. A hot glow wove during the day around me and gnawed and
sucked on my bones, glowing flames pierced into myself and the night is cold north winds drove around
me and blew me with her breath, a Tanks of ice surrounding my body and melted again in the
glow of the morning. Boiling Forest streams rushing me fell down and smashed my bones playing
against excellent Rocky peaks. My howl sounded terrible down the abyss, and jumped from rock
to Cliff, a deaf mute solitude was cold and without compassion around me. - So I yelled four
years of my curses, and my requests to meet unexpected effeminate Mondal, but he heard me, sometimes
he flew on a brown cloud over my head saw, mocking me down, my torment was pleased and gave me
then and again the relentless torture. - Finally, he seemed agitated or tired of the old amusement,
sympathy for what should This stone chest inhabit? - I want you losnehmen of your chain, he said,
and bowed like a storm further down on me, but only under a severe
condition I give you free.

"- - - -

Abdallah wanted to read in horror further than a loud uproar in the
court of the palace rose. - Distraught, he ran to the window - and
the terrible palm leaves fell from his Hand. -

Chapter Four.

Sword gleamed against the glow of the sun and shone like lightning Abdallah, in a terrible Selim's
slaves fought fray with the bodyguard of Ali, his father stood in
the middle of the Battle, with bared sword he rushed out.

A wild cry flew through the yard of the palace, Ali's slaves raged against Selim's armed Friends,
the clanking of swords beaten the directions rattled terrible. Abubeker was with his white beard in
front of him, rolled in his own blood, the screams and the sound
of weapons beat against the walls of the palace, blood flowed in streams,
some slaves fled, others fell down dead - and now "Abdallah also saw
his father fall under a sword blows.

He threw himself furiously into the crowd and slaughtered around him, gave him a blind rage Giant
forces, he felt the slight wounds, which he had received and was raging like a Madman in the throng up and
down - a familiar voice called out his name - it was his friend Rashid. - You too? Abdallah
said furiously - even you agree with my woes? - Only against my will,
Rashid said, and gave him her hand, just save your father, he added
softly, behold, he is still alive.

Abdallah looked down, his father lay at his feet and saw him with a dull eyes to; Abdallah took
him severely, and carried him out of the fray, Rashid went with him and helped Selim the wounded
out of the courtyard of the palace lead, all the warriors made the
famous Rashid place because they thought the wounded man for a servant
of Ali, so did Abdallah his father out of the palace and through the
gate of the city.

Selim was dumb and closed in on itself, violent thoughts seemed to disturb him, only occasionally
a sigh stole from his chest, but he sought to hide his son.

I can not continue, he said at last and sat on a mound by the roadside. His face was pale,
his wound, which had connected Abdallah, began to bleed again. -
Why did you not let me die? he said then, as fate is angry at me?
- You should have I have let those daggers, which you snatched from
me, because I belonged to them in Treachery death sells. -

Abdallah
was now "back only from his astonishment, his rage and fear gradually.

  She could
not yet make any plea for forgiveness for the dead man.

"Mother Mary Benedicta would be gentle with you," she said, "if you will not come to Castle
Talbot.  But, dear, no one need know.  You shall take Eileen's place with me.  You shall be
my little daughter."

Her loving heart was running away with her.  Shawn would never forgive her if she brought Stella
to Castle Talbot, to which Terry might return at any time.  Mary Benedicta would know how to
tend the wounded spirit, if poor little Stella would but consent.

"It is getting late," said Stella, breaking in on the confusion of her thoughts.  Her voice,
which seemed drained of tears, was suddenly composed.  "You will be late for lunch."

"And you, Stella, what about your lunch?"

She could have cried out on the futility of this talk of lunches.

Stella shook her head.

"There is food here if I want it.  My mother had taken to storing dainty food for me, since
I have been so much with her, as though her food was not good enough for me.  I shall not starve,
Lady O'Gara."

"Stella, I tell you it is impossible for you to stay here alone."

Lady O'Gara spoke almost sharply.  She had a foreboding that Stella's will would be too strong
for her.

"She will come back.  She has left everything behind; even her purse with money in it.  She
must find me here when she comes home.  We can go away together."

Lady O'Gara looked at the little face in despair.  It was so set that it was not easy to recognize
the soft Stella who had crept into all their hearts.  Even Shawn had felt her charm though
he had locked the door of his heart against her.  A thought came to Lady O'Gara's mind. Stella's
remaining at the cottage for the present would at least give time.  Prudence whispered to her
that she must not bring Stella to Castle Talbot.  She might have felt equal to opposing Shawn,
but, perhaps, she was relieved by the chance of escape.  Shawn was not well--those dark shadows
were more and more noticeable in his face. Other people had begun to see them and to ask her
if Sir Shawn was not well.  Presently Stella might be more amenable to reason, and go to Mother
Mary Benedicta at St. Scholastua's Abbey.  Benedicta was like her name.  She, if any one, could
salve the poor child's wound.  She was as tolerant as she was tender, and she had been fond
of Terence Comerford in the old days.  No fear that she would be shocked at the story, as some
women--cloistered or otherwise--might have been! Benedicta was perfect, Mary O'Gara said to
herself and heaved a sigh of relief because there was Benedicta to turn to.

She felt tired out with her emotions, almost too tired to think. Suddenly she had a happy inspiration.
She and Stella should eat together.  The girl looked worn out.  If she left her she was tolerably
sure Stella would not think of food.

"No one will be alarmed if I do not come back for lunch," she said.  "I often do not trouble
about lunch when I am alone.  They will expect me in for tea.  Sir Shawn will not be home till
late.  Do you think you could give me some food, Stella?"

"Oh, yes, it will be a pleasure," Stella said, getting up with an air of anxious politeness.
"I am sure there are eggs.  You will not mind eggs for lunch, with tea and bread and butter.
I am afraid the kitchen fire may be out--but the turf keeps a spark so long.  It is alight
when you think it is out."

She took the poker and stirred the grey fire to a blaze, then put on turf, building it as she
had seen others do in the narrow grate.

"There are hearths in Connaught on which the fire has not gone out for fifty years," said Lady
O'Gara, watching the shower of sparks that rose and fell as Stella struck the black sods with
the poker.

Neither of them ate very much when the meal was prepared, though Stella drank the tea almost
greedily.  She had begun to look a little furtively at Lady O'Gara before the meal was finished
as though she wished her to be gone.  It hurt Mary O'Gara's kind heart; though she understood
that the girl was aching for solitude.  But how was she going to leave her in this haunted
place alone--a child like her--in such terrible trouble?

Suddenly she found a solution of her difficulties.  It would serve for the moment, if Stella
would but consent.

"Would you have Mrs. Horridge to stay with you?" she asked.  "You know you cannot stay here
quite alone.  She is a gentle creature, and very unobtrusive.  I shall feel happy about you
if she is here."

To her immense relief Stella consented readily.

"She has been very good to my mother," she said; "and they are both victims of men's cruelty."

Lady O'Gara, who was looking at Stella at the moment, noticed that her eyes fell on something
outside the window and a quick shudder passed through the slight body.  She went to Stella's
side and saw only a heap of stones for road-mending.  They must have been newly flung down
there, for she did not remember to have seen them when last she passed this way.

Was it possible that Stella knew?  That her eyes saw another heap of stones, and upon them
a dead man lying, his blood turning the sharp stones red?

CHAPTER XX

SIR SHAWN HAS A VISITOR

The sun was low, almost out of sight, as Lady O'Gara climbed up the hill from Waterfall Cottage
to her own South lodge.  Through the bars of the gate she caught a glimpse of a red ball going
low, criss-crossed with the bare branches of the trees.  The air nipped.  There was going to
be frost.  Before she left she had seen the lamps lit at Waterfall Cottage and bidden Stella
lock herself in and only open to a voice she knew.

She had delayed, washing up the tea-cups with Stella, trying to distract the girl from her
grief to the natural simple things of life: and all the time she had felt that Stella longed
for her to be gone.

She had narrowly escaped being caught in the dusk--without the flashlight Terry had given her,
which she usually carried when she went out these short afternoons.  Was she growing as stupid
as the villagers?  She had glanced nervously at the heap of stones as she passed them by where
the water made a loud roaring noise hurrying over the weir.  She had to remind herself that
it was not really dark but only dusk, and that she had never been afraid of the dark.  Rather
she had loved the kind night, the mantle with which God covers His restless earth that she
may sleep.  As she went up the hill she thought uneasily of the tramp who had passed the window
of Waterfall Cottage a few hours earlier.  The shambling figure had a menace for her.  She
could not keep from glancing over her shoulder and was glad to come to her own gate.

She called through the bars and Patsy Kenny came to open for her. Seeing him she sighed.  More
complications.  Her mind was too weary to tackle the matter of Patsy's unfortunate attachment
to Susan Horridge. Not that she doubted Patsy.  She had a queer confidence that Patsy would
not hurt the woman he loved.  People would talk, were talking in all probability.  What a world
it was!  What a world!

Of late Patsy had refrained from visiting the South lodge so far as she knew.  Sir Shawn had
said to her only a day or two before that Patsy had taken up the fiddle again--Patsy was a
great fiddler--that he could hear him playing his old tunes night after night.  There had been
an interval during which the fiddle had been silent.  She thought that, with the simple craft
of his class, Patsy might have played the fiddle to let possible gossips know that he was at
home in the solitude which in the old times before Susan came he had never seemed to find solitary.

"Is that you, m'lady?" said Patsy.  "The dark was near comin' up wid ye.  I'd like if you'd
the time you'd come in and see Susan.  She's frightened like in herself an' she won't listen
to rayson."

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Lady O'Gara, turning towards the lodge, while Patsy re-padlocked
the gate.  She did not wait for his answer, which was slow of coming.  Patsy was always deliberate.

In the quiet and cheerful interior of the lodge she found a terrified Susan.  Michael lay on
the hearth-rug before a bright fire, Georgie sat by the white, well-scrubbed table, his cheek
on his hand, the lamplight on his pale fine hair, watching his mother anxiously; the lesson
book on top of a pile of others, was plainly forgotten.

Susan seemed desperately frightened.  She got out the reason why at last, with some help from
Patsy Kenny.  She shook as she told the tale. She had been washing, outside the lodge, earlier
in the day, fortunately out of view of the gate, when some one had shaken it and cursed at
finding it locked.  Susan had seen his hand, a coarse hairy hand, thrust through the gate in
an attempt to force the lock.  The man, whoever he was, had gone on his way, seeing the futility
of trying to enter by the strongly padlocked gate.  Susan had locked herself in the lodge till
Georgie had come home from school, when the two of them had fled to Patsy Kenny for protection.

"The poor girl will have it that Baker has come back," said Patsy, scratching his head.  "She
says she knew his voice an' the wicked-looking hand of him.  If it was to be him itself--but
I had the Master's word for it he had gone to America--he wouldn't know she was here.  I keep
on tellin' her that, but she won't listen."

Lady O'Gara had a passing wonder about Shawn's having known that Susan's husband was gone to
America--she had not associated the person who had saved Shawn from accident at Ashbridge Park
with Susan's graceless husband.

"He might find out by asking questions," said Susan.  "He's only got to ask.  There's many
a one to tell him."

"I was goin' to your Ladyship," said Patsy.  "The two frightened things can't be left their
lone in this little place.  The heart would jump out of her.  Can't I see it flutterin' there
in her side like a bird caught in your hand."

"I came to ask Susan if she would go down to Waterfall Cottage to look after Miss Stella Comerford,
who is there alone."

Lady O'Gara's eyes fluttered nervously.  She was aware of the strangeness of the thing she
said, and she felt shy about the effect of it on her listeners.  She hastened to make some
kind of explanation.

"Miss Stella has had a disagreement with Mrs. Comerford and will not return to her--for the
present.  She wishes to stay at Waterfall Cottage, but, of course, she cannot stay alone."

"The poor young lady," said Susan, looking up; she added hopefully: "Baker would never look
for me there.  The people would think I was gone away out of this place.  Few pass Waterfall
Cottage, and we could keep the gate locked."

"Where at all is Mrs. Wade gone to?" asked Patsy; not seeming to find it strange that Miss
Stella should be at Waterfall Cottage.

"Could Georgie be very wise and silent?" asked Lady O'Gara.

Georgie flushed under her look and sent her a worshipping glance.

"Georgie would be silent enough if it was likely his father would find us," said Susan.  "Not
but what he's quiet by nature.  Baker used to say that Georgie would run into a mouse-hole
from him.  Not that I let him knock my Georgie about.  I told him if he laid a hand on Georgie
I'd do him a mischief, and he believed me.  He knocked me about after that."

"God help the two o' ye," said Patsy with sharp anguish in his voice. "If I was to see the
rascal I couldn't keep my hands off him."

"He might do you a harm.  The hands of him are dangerous strong.  He used to say he'd choked
a man once.  It isn't likely I wouldn't know the wicked hands of him when I saw them."

"I'd take my chance," said Patsy with a baleful light in his eyes. "The one time I seen him
I was mad to kill him.  I never felt the like before for any man.  'Twas like a dog I seen
when the Master an' me was in South Africay.  He'd found a nest of vipers, and I never seen
anything like the rage o' that dog whin he wint tearin' them to tatters.  I felt the same way
with that blackguard that owns you, Susan, my girl."

Patsy was pale, and in the lamplight little drops of perspiration showed on his forehead and
about his lips.

"Very probably the man who frightened Susan was not her husband at all," Lady O'Gara put in.
"But in the remote case of its being Baker, Susan will be better away for the present.  She
can have Georgie with her, or perhaps he could stay with you, Patsy?"

"I'd like to have Georgie with me, if he didn't mind keepin' to the house in the daytime,"
said Patsy with a fatherly look at the boy. "He'd have the run o' the books, what he's always
cravin' for."

"Georgie can go to Mr. Penny's," said Susan.  "He'll be safe there an' my mind'll be easy about
him."

"I'll leave you then, Susan, to put out the fire here and lock the door," Lady O'Gara said.
"Be as quick as you can.  I don't like to think of Miss Stella in that lonely place.  Here
is the key of the gate.  I locked it when I came through.  Miss Stella will let you in when
you knock.  Patsy will take you down there.  You won't be afraid with him?"

"Not with Mr. Kenny, m'lady," said Susan with a flattering fervour.

Lady O'Gara went on her way, refusing the offer of Georgie as an escort.  She was quite safe
with Shot, she said; adding that she was not at all a nervous person.  She was a bit puzzled
now about her panic coming up the dark road, under the trees, from Waterfall Cottage to the
South lodge.

She stepped out briskly.  It was nearly a mile from the South lodge to the house.  The darkness
increased as she went.  She was quite pleased to see the light shining from the window of the
room Sir Shawn called his office, through the bay trees and laurestinus and Portugal laurels
which lay between her and it.  She was glad Shawn was at home.  She had forgotten for once
to ask Patsy if the Master was at home.  After all the years of their life together her heart
always lifted for Shawn's coming home before the dark night settled down upon the world.

She had only to tap on the French window and he would open it and let her in, as he had done
so many times before.

She took the path by the side of the house, between the ivied wall and the shrubbery.

As she approached the window Shot uttered a low growl.  At the same moment she became aware
that her husband was not alone.  Some one had crossed between the light and the window.  For
a second a huge shadow was flung across the gravel path almost at her feet.

With a sigh she went back again, entering by the hall-door way.  She was sorry Shawn had one
of his troublesome visitors.  She wanted so much to talk to him, to tell him of all the trouble
about Stella.  She felt chilled that he was not ready to listen to her when she needed to talk
to him so much.

"Sir Shawn has returned, m'lady," said Reilly, the new butler, the possessor of a flat large
face with side whiskers which always made her want to laugh.  Reilly's manners, she had said,
would befit a ducal household, and it had been no surprise to her to learn that he had lived
with an old gentleman who had a Duke for a grandfather, and that a part of his duties had been
to recite family prayers, understudying his master.

"Yes," she said, "has he had tea, Reilly?"

"No, m'lady.  He did not wish for tea."

"He has a visitor?  Has this person been long with him?"

"I don't know, m'lady.  No one came in this way.  I went a while ago to see if the fire was
burning, and I found the door locked, m'lady, I concluded Sir Shawn did not wish to be disturbed."

"Sir Shawn's visitors on business come in by the window that opens on the lawn.  The handle
of the office door is rather stiff.  I don't think it could have been locked."

She went on down the passage to the office door.  She heard voices the other side of the door.
Sir Shawn was speaking in a fatigued voice. She had hardly ever known him to speak angrily.
She listened for a second or two.  The other voice answered; it was thick and coarse: she could
not hear what was said.  She went back to the drawing-room, where a little later Sir Shawn
joined her.

Even when they were alone she always dressed in her most beautiful garments for her husband's
eyes.  To-night she had chosen a pink satin dress, close-fitting and trailing heavily, with
her garnets.

She was sitting by the fire when Sir Shawn came in and his eyes lighted as they fell upon her.

"You look like your own daughter, Mary," he said, "only so much more beautiful than the girl
I married.  What a wonderful colour your gown is!  It makes you like a beautiful open rose."

She laughed.  His compliments were never stale to her.

"Where were you when I came in?" he asked.  "'I looked in your chamber, 'twas lonely?'"

She evaded the question for a moment.  "I made an attempt to enter by your window as I came
back, but you had a visitor."

He was standing with his back to the fire, looking down at her, and she saw the ominous shadows
come in the hollows of his cheeks.

"A troublesome visitor, Mary," he said.  "When I come to you you exorcise all my troubles.
You are the angel before whom the blue devils flee away."

She did not ask him further about his visitor.  So many of them were troublesome.  She often
wondered at Shawn's patience with the people. The family quarrels over land were apt to be
the worst of all: but there were other things hardly less disagreeable.

"Poor Shawn!" she said tenderly.  "Sit down by me and let me smoothe that line out of your
forehead!  It threatens to become permanent."

She stooped, half playfully, to him as he sat down beside her leaning his head back against
a cushion, and touched his forehead with her finger-tips gently.

"Go on doing that, Mary," he said.  "It seems to smoothe a tangle out of my brain.  I cannot
tell you how restful it is.  I saw Terry off--and the others.  The boy looked rather down in
the mouth.  What have you been doing all day?"

It was a quiet hour.  She had dressed early on purpose to have this hour.  No one had business
in the room till the dressing bell rang. She had learnt by long use to watch his moods.  She
knew her own power over him, to soothe, to assuage.  The moment was propitious.  So she told
him the tale of the day's happenings, in a quiet easy flow, now and again patting his hand
or stroking his forehead with her delicate finger-tips.

"Good Lord, what a kettle of fish!" he groaned when she had finished. "And you take it so easily,
Mary!  I wish to the Lord, Grace Comerford had never come back.  It was an ill day."

She almost echoed the wish.  Then she found herself, to her amazement, setting Stella against
all the trouble, putting her in the balance against all that had happened and might happen.
To her amazement Stella counted against all the rest.  She was just the little daughter she
had wanted all her days--to stay with her when the insistent world snatched her boy from her.
She acknowledged to herself that she was jealous of the woman who was Stella's real mother,
whom the girl had chosen before everything, every one else.

She sought in her own mind, with what her husband called her incurable optimism, for a bright
side to this dark trouble and could find none. She must leave it where she left everything,
at the foot of the altar. God could unpick the black knot of Stella's fate.  He could smooth
out the tangle.  She must only pray and hope.

She had meant to talk the matter out thoroughly with Shawn.  She had so often found that light
and comfort came that way.  But Shawn would not discuss things thoroughly.  He would only say
that it was a pretty kettle of fish; that he wished Grace Comerford had never come back, that
he wished they could send Terry somewhere out of harm's way.  And presently he fell asleep
with his head against her shoulder.  He had had a hard day and a tiring one.  Of late he had
taken to dropping asleep in the evenings.

She let him sleep, remaining as motionless as she could so as not to disturb him.  When he
awoke he was full of repentance.  She had not even had a book to solace her watch.  That which
she had been reading was out of reach.

"You are the perfect woman, Mary," he said gratefully, "and I am an unworthy fellow.  I don't
know how I came to be so sleepy.  You make me too comfortable."

Her face lit up.  Shawn was often unreasonable in these latter days. Indeed he had not been
the easiest of men to live with since Terence Comerford's tragic death.  But when he was like
this his wife thought that all was worth while.

CHAPTER XXI

STELLA IS SICK

A few days passed by and Mrs. Wade had not returned.  Mrs. Comerford had written an icy message
to Mary O'Gara.

"When Stella comes to her right mind this house is open to her.  I have said to my servants
that she is with you.  I was once a truthful woman."

Reading this brief epistle Mary O'Gara had said to herself that it was lucky there was distance
enough between Inch and Castle Talbot; also that though she considered herself a truthful woman
there was nothing she would not say in order to shield Stella from gossiping tongues. She was
bitterly angry with Grace Comerford for the cruel and evil temper which had done so much hurt
to an innocent thing.

"Does she think," she asked herself hotly, "that so easily Stella will forget her cruelty?
I do not believe the child will ever go back to her."

She had written to Mary Benedicta about the case, giving her a cautious account of poor Stella's
plight, abstaining from mentioning Terence Comerford's part in the story.  She could have told
that: she could not write it.  Mary Benedicta would think that Stella's trouble came from the
fictitious French father.  There was little or no communication between the nun and Mrs. Comerford,
who had quarrelled with her over her choice of a conventual life long ago.

Mary Benedicta had answered the letter with another full of the milk and honey of a compassionate
tenderness.

The best solution of the problem Lady O'Gara could find was that Stella should go for a time
at least to the Convent.  Terry had not written. Terry would have his say in the matter presently.
He had gone off chilled for the time by Stella's disinclination towards him: but he would come
back.  If he only knew Stella's plight at this moment he would surely break all the barriers
to get back to her.

Poor Stella's plight was indeed a sad one.  Susan Horridge, watching her like a faithful dog,
reported that she ate little, that she walked up and down her room at night when she ought
to have been sleeping, that she started when spoken to, that she spent long hours staring before
her piteously, doing nothing.

"If Mrs. Wade don't come back soon the young lady will either go after her or she'll have a
breakdown," Susan said.

Sometimes Lady O'Gara wondered how much Susan knew or suspected, but there was in her manner
an entire absence of curiosity, of a sense that anything out of the way was happening, that
was invaluable in a crisis like this.  Lady O'Gara thought more highly of Susan every day.
The weather had turned very wet, but Waterfall Cottage glowed with brightness and roaring fires
of turf and wood.  The rain and darkness were shut out.  Stella could not have been in better
hands.

About the fifth day came a hunting morning.  The meet was fixed for a distant part of the country.
Lady O'Gara got up in the dark of the morning to superintend her husband's cup of tea, to see
that his flask was filled and his sandwiches to his liking.

"I wish you had been coming out too, Mary," he said wistfully as he stood on the steps drawing
on his gloves.  "You are growing lazy, old lady."

"I'll come out with you on Saturday," she said, and patted his shoulder.

Patsy was late in bringing round Black Prince, the beautiful spirited horse which was Sir Shawn's
favourite hunter that season.  It was unlike Patsy to be late.  The first grey dawn was coming
lividly over the sky.  Standing in the lamplit hall Mary O'Gara looked out and caught the shiver
of the little wind which brings the day.

"I'll be late at the Wood of the Hare," Sir Shawn said, fuming a little.  "I don't want to
press the Prince with a hard day before him."

Still Patsy did not come.

"Good-bye, darling," Sir Shawn said at last.  "Go back to bed and have a good sleep before
breakfast.  I'll see what's up with Patsy."

She had gone upstairs before she heard her husband ride out of the stable yard.  So Patsy had
been late.  Was it possible he had overslept?  It would be so unlike Patsy, who, especially
of a hunting morning, had always slept the fox's sleep.

She had a long day before her, with many things to do.  She ought to write to Terry, but she
knew the things Terry expected to hear.  There had been a letter from him, asking roundly for
news of Stella.

"Why don't you write?" it asked.  "Are you going to treat me like a child as Father does? 
I've made up my mind about Stella.  I will marry her, if she will have me; and she shall never
know anything from me. Are you looking after her, keeping her happy?  For Heaven's sake don't
take Father's view of it!  That would be ruin to everything, but I warn you, that if you do,
it will not alter me.  Tell me what she says, how she looks.  Has her colour come back?  Does
she speak of me?  There are a thousand things I want to know."

There had been a postscript to the letter.

"By the way, Evelyn has discovered that the man who got the lakh of rupees,--you remember?--had
been rather badly treated by Eileen, or so Evelyn's informant said.  It is a she--a cousin
of Evelyn's who is married to somebody up there.  Evelyn says he will come again to Castle
Talbot if you ask him.  He says the duck-shooting was splendid--and he congratulated me on
you--darling.  I did myself proud.  Just imagine,--Evelyn!"

She did not know how to answer his letter.  It was not in her to put off the boy with a letter
which should disappoint him.  She imagined him running through it with a blank face, looking
for what she had not written.  No: she could not write without telling him the truth: and the
truth would make the boy miserable.  She supposed it would have to be told--presently, but
she would wait till then.  She was not one to deal in half-truths and subterfuges.

She went forth after breakfast with an intention of seeing Stella, and afterwards going on
to old Lizzie Brennan, who required some looking after, in cold weather especially.  She had
rather mad fits of wandering over the country, from which she would return soaked through with
rain, hungry and exhausted.  More than once Lady O'Gara had discovered her after these expeditions,
choking with bronchitis, in a fireless room, too weak to light a fire or prepare food for herself.
Lady Conyers, a neighbour of Castle Talbot at Mount Esker, had tried to induce Lizzie to go
into the workhouse, with many arguments as to the comfort which awaited her there.  But Lizzie
was about as much inclined for the workhouse as the free bird for the cage, and, rather to
Lady Conyers' indignation, Lady O'Gara had abetted the culprit, saying that she would look
after her. He now felt force in themselves
to endure the poverty and its activity back to throw. He made plans, how he would eat, and wished
only come at an opportunity to show how busy could be. He had after his noble compassion for
the beggar, after the generosity with whom he had surrendered to him all his other assets, a sensation
as he to had never known previously.

A steep cliff stood to the side, and Omar mounted him with a light heart to explore the area
to overlook the embellished the setting of the sun. He looked at his feet stored here the beautiful
world with their fresh plains and majestic mountains, dark forests with the and red shiny currents
spread out over all the golden network of the evening, Roth, and he felt like a prince, who
mastered all this, and command the mountains, forests and streams.

He was buried on top of the crag in the contemplation of the area.

He decided here the waiting for the rising of the moon and then continue his journey.

The Abendroth sank and dusk fell down from the clouds, it was soon followed by the gloomy Night.
- The stars twinkled in the dark blue vault, and the earth and rested silent in a solemn silence.
Omar looked at it with fixed eyes at night, and lost his eye be giddy
in the infinite number of stars, he prayed to the majesty of God and
felt Holy cloudy draw through his soul.

Since it was as if they were to levy a ray of light on the distant horizon, bright blue, he moved
up and approached as a brilliant fire to the center of the sky. The stars were pale back, and
as a reflection shimmered in the morning it was raining from the sky and in delicate, rothdämmernden
beams down. - Omar was astonished at the wonderful phenomenon and delighted in the beautiful
and strange light: around the forests and mountains sparkled the
distant clouds swam in pale purple, like a golden domed tent in the
glow composed of Omar.

Hail, noble, compassionate, virtuous, a sweet voice called from above, you mercy of poverty,
and the Lord looks with favor upon you.

Strain of the flute sounds like the winds rustled the night Omar, his chest heaved happy and oppressed,
his eye was the splendor of his ear by the heavenly harmonies drunk. And from the splendor step
produced a figure of light, and stood in front of the delighted and
it was Azrael, the angel of God shining. - Walks with me to this red
radiation in the apartment of the blessed, called the sweet voice,
for you have earned it by your generosity, the paradise to look with
his hostility.

Lord said, Omar, trembling, as I shall want to follow as a mortal? My earthly Body is not made
by me.

Give me your hand, spoke the figure of light. - Omar handed it to
him with trembling delight, and they walked on the red rays through
the clouds between the stars through it, and the sweet tones were
behind them, and Morgenroth lay in their path, the scent of flowers
spiced the air.

Suddenly it was night, Omar screamed, and was in thick darkness below
at the foot of steep rock with broken arms.

The moon rose from behind a hill just dark red out, and threw the first uncertain rays in the
rocky valley.

Unfortunately I O three times! Omar cried out plaintively, as he collected his senses again
had. - The sky was not enough in my misery, that he me lying in a
Dreams from the top of the rock throwing, my limbs broken, so I hunger
should be a prey? - He rewarded so the pity that I had a miserable?
- Who was ever more unfortunate than I?

A figure dragged himself
painfully over the Omar saw the beggar, he today had given the rest
of his assets.

Omar called him moaning, he was to the benefit, which he received from it, share it with him,
but the cripple gasped indifferent in his Ways on, and Omar did not know if he had not heard
him, or only pretending to have a right to not take care of him. I am now not so miserable
as this reprobate? Omar complained through the night. - Who will be my pity, because I now
everything is taken what could console me for?

He sighed deeply and his arms ached, like glowing fire was burning
in the bones, and every breath was torment him.

He pondered his fate in silence, and thought now first again to his brother. -

O, where you are generous! he exclaimed, perhaps up the sword the
angel of death has taken, the misery has eaten up perhaps in the most
oppressive poverty, and you have in the hour of death, your poor brother
cursed. - Oh, I've earned about you, I suffer Now the penalty for
my ingratitude, for my hard-heartedness, the sky is just! - And I
could go along so proud, and calling God to witness my virtue? - O
heavens! forgive the sinner who submits without a murmur of your punishment.

Omar

lost in gloomy thoughts, he recalled, with which brotherly love him Mahmud was when he was verarmet
for the first time, had taken, he threw it right to that he failed to save him had, and in this
way his thanks to his brother to pay off, and he wished the death as the end of his sentence
and his suffering.

The bright moon illuminated the area, and a small caravans of camels,
some retired slowly through the valley.

The love of life awoke at Omar, he called the passers-by a plaintive voice for help on. They
laid him gently on a camel to the next can be linked to city's wounds, which reached the caravans
with the dawn of the day. The Merchant fed the unfortunates themselves, and recognized him
as his brother Omar. His Shame was without bounds, as the compassion
Mahmud.

One brother asked for forgiveness, and the other had already taken; tears flowed from the presence
of both, and the most touching Reconciliation was celebrated between them.

Mahmud had turned to reducing it to Ispahan, where he was an old rich merchant made famous, which
soon won him love and support him with his wealth. The happiness was favorable to the displaced,
and he gained his lost property in a short Time again, his old benefactor died, and sat him his
heir. -

When Omar was healed, he traveled with his brother in Ispahan, where he was this a new story
set up. Omar married and never forgot how much he thank his brother guilty. Both lived by this time in
the greatest harmony, and were for the whole city is a pattern of brotherly love.

Almansur.

An idyll.

1790th

Almansur slowly emerged from the shadows of the palm, a tear rolled
from his cheeks, He looked her wehmuthsvoll to, as it sliding down
to his staff, and in the dust lost, the whole past stood with her
bright and dark colors in front of him, Abendroth and rainy nights.

Once again he looked back to Baghdad and saw how the last golden moon went down behind the blue
mountains slowly. - Well then, farewell! Probably for ever! he cried, and walked slowly, without
even knowing where to go. The sun went down, the birds singing of the evening in the nearby forest,
but his eyes were not there at the golden sea of ​​fire to bring comfort to his ear does not
hear the melodies, the down of him for every branch swam, the wind played with his coat, but
he hung him careless and hurried further off the road, with tiefgesenktem view.

Finally he looked up, he found himself in a beautiful valley, surrounded by rings of green
mountains, in the valley shone a silver lake, on the evening Roth rocked on each shaft to
the Mountains rose around them shimmered softly and vines, palm trees
were on slopes and swayed rushing down over the valley, the whole
region was reflected in the shivering See, and Abendroth, and the
rising full moon cast such a sweet light to all objects Almansur believed
that in a part of paradise.

He stood and saw the schönbewachsnen Mountains, as the evening light over the gentle green slopes and
swam over to the Roth opposite mountain scattered through a palm grove, snaked the shimmering
gloss the glow of the sky, and shook back in every drop of shaking grass, from every leaf,
to which a ruby ​​is rocked. The moon hung over a dark fir grove, a small Waterfall roared,
the great forests were singing their evening song of nature, the day ran into his Rose bed down,
the crickets chirped, the moon appeared from the golden lake to drink, and each light clouds of
heaven, which slipped away under the moon and some of it his golden splendor steel, seemed
calm, comfort and joy to float. Lange was still Almansur so, at last, his feeling can dissolve
in the harmony of a blissful sadness at the memory his misfortune was passed down to the last argument
of the setting sun behind the mountains. He ascended the mountain, soon went up, now down, and
his eyes always hovered on the opposite Slope, or on the level of the low down shining lake.

He
went through a spring that pushed from the columns of the mountain and hinuntergoß his silver;
He was a small depression where willow branches hidden under the top of a moosbewachsnen Roof
protruded. Peace and serenity here seemed to have set up their headquarters, he walked around this
wreath of willow, and stood before the entrance of a small hut. An old man, whose silver hair flowed
in the wind back and forth, planted vines with a calm smile, and bound them to the sisterly elm, then
he looked up at the moon, then down into the golden lake and sat back happily continued his work. - "Heaven's
blessing pour down on you!" cried the old man Almansur; lovingly
thanked the old man and led the young man in the twilight Hut.

Friendly jumped against the old two dogs barked and wagged their tails. The old man and the
Young man sat on wicker of rushes, and then the old man got out of his busy Store-milk and dates.
"Eat," he said. - Almansur ate little, and soon he saw the lowly Walls of the hut, now he looked
at the smiling old man. After the meal, set both at the entrance of the hut.

You are very happy! Almansur began after a long silence, if you are ever happy can. - Yes, the answer
was the old man, and I stole me away from the tumult of the world,
and no one missed me, anxious, with drops of sweat on his forehead,
I drove to the happiness by - for free!

It fled as the morning air woven dream, despair, I snuck in this hut, I looked around, and
it stood next to me. - Yes! Thanks to you great prophet! I am quite happy here! - Oh, if I
stand here in the morning, freshly bathed the day, rose-red depends on those prone top, then you
pay my hot tears you, then I see on my former life back, as the weary pilgrims at the tomb of
the Prophet traveled to the Steppes, - to float before me the distant
future, my spirit flies through the rose-red Tissue of morning, he
flies through the orbit of the star, and jumps in the air to the glowing
Wheels of the solar car. - Each of my eyes then look full of gratitude
to heaven!

Almansur listened, bent forward with respect to the speech of the old man, he saw in his eyes
shine a tear, a tear ran hot down her cheeks Almansur. - Then he took full Zutraun the hand
of the old man; o on! he said, your voice is like the murmur of the distant Source to the thirsty.
Next! My spirit you to fly! - Just try it in words to me dead Roth to paint the evening of your
happiness. -

O young man said the old man, happiness can feel better than this feeling in words can squeeze.
- Quiet is going through the bright wine leaves in the morning sun, she flies to my bed and whispered
to me: 'Awake' to!.

I get up surrounded by the red glow, and watch as the sun majestically down into the valley
below, the nature wakes up and smiles friendly towards the sun, the sea glows beneath me, above
me flaming the sky, the grove noisy, the lark sings, the sea shook, and her rosy waves travel
with the West wind around the Bet. If the purple gold of the sky steals behind the blue coat,
then visit I mean bleating flocks, the goats out to me, the lambs
bouncing around me. - O I 'm not quite deserted!

I know every tree in that region, each branch of each Tree, when the first leaves appear after
the winter, or my first sight of spring Violet hunted, oh then I'm looking forward just as if
a long-desired friend unexpectedly emerges from the ship ', the first summer breeze that shakes
over my cheek, I do what the poor is a blue ray of hope. As the storm last moons of my Mountains
down into the valley a young poplar threw because I weep for the young tree, as I have the death
of a beloved young man out of it. Oh, this lonely valley I just want to Mahomet swap paradise,
there is more to me than the earth with their kingdoms, this My trees are more than kings and
princes and their subjects. I often visit over there the old palm trees look after those young
birch trees that I planted myself, and I appreciate their growth as a father over his children.
In the small garden behind my hut seems the glow of the rose on the white lily, the violet
is kneeling at the feet of the proud hollyhock, and mark each of the flowers' I, I remember now every
me in passing, when and how they planted every I doused himself in the morning and evening.
These flowers, these trees are my friends, none of them boasted before the other, none of
them me laugh scornfully after. Envy and calumny must not fly over these mountains, happiness
cut arrow them the tendons of the wings, they are beyond the mountains and look in vain with
black trailing wings of rocks to climb the summit, the happiness and the rest fly here swallowed
up arm in arm through the sky, in every tree, in every source whispers fortunate in each echo
of the mountains sounds quiet joy.

If by and by the yellow leaf falls to the earth as autumn on self-spun silk thread floats through
the air, wraps around the trees and shake off the ripe fruit with the leaves, then I see how
the clothes to nature, and sleeping under the brilliant swan bed strengthened in order to wake
up with a new splendor. If then rain down rushes, when the north wind by the top of the Palms saußt
when the pines creak, the wind snow in front of it Swirls - then I take off the wall silberbezogne
​​the lyre, then I sing the springs songs of my life, and I see a smile towards the downfall of
my sun. Then before dawn I see the fog of the past, I am swinging on my Adlersfittig Invented
by dusk of old, by the silent dreary night of the future. - In this Circulation I floated over
more than half a century, this beautiful, uninterrupted Uniformity.
- -

O youth!

With warm friendship you hit my hand, a tear trembles in your black Eyelashes - in other words - you
brought grief to my solitary hut?

Almansur. Yes, grief leads me to you, old man! - Oh, let me be with you live in this cottage, let
me be your son. The joy is dead to me. - I have the company of People leave, here let out under
the palm of the wind in the evening my sighs like this, let me cry in the morning at this cypress.
- Why should return I to the people who where everybody runs after the fleeing happiness, and
no one touches the hem of his garment, where a the other laughs, and blind to his own error,
calumny and envy go out behind me, the deceptive cloak themselves in the garb of friendship. -
No, I want a new Life begin to think of my former life as a dream, the brighter the sun beam dispelled.
O as an old man, my request does not return in any angle glows up
for me Spark of joy over here as a. For a long time it was unbearable
to me, without me purpose and intent to have the vortex of human society
carried away with, why should I also have eat in a heap, where every
face is repugnant to me, and drink, sleep and get up, one day as the
others, why I live in human society?

I am hate yourself and others! for what ultimate purpose of the Creator created the human race? One
of the to torture others? Him to rob the enjoyment of life?

Why dance to the countless worlds eternal clumsy dance around their suns? Why did the Creator
from his hand, the creation ? Go out Why he threw the host of stars through the sky? Are we
to live here without lucky to be, and then wither as a tree, then why this quaalenvolle life?
- Or waiting more beautiful sunshine after the death of our sleep, what this pilgrimage through thorns
on Rock? - - O old man! this, this has already made me long unhappy! -

The old man looked at him and said nothing. "Linger," he said then. A pious hermit gave me
many years ago a small book, it is a myth, the moon shines bright; I will do as you read.
- -

He went away. Almansur saw, however, rigidly before him into the valley, his eyes rested on a branch,
the wind tossed back and forth, his grief had returned, the several scenes of his Life awoke in
his soul. He pressed his back a tear in his eye, the old man came sat down and read: - -

Nadir. A tale.

The gloomy misanthrope Nadir walked through one of Arabia's steppes. The sun was in the middle of
the sky and cast its burning rays of the wanderer, round a tree, no bushes, which afforded
a refreshing shade; Nadir eye sought in vain a Source to quench his burning thirst, he was dull
and slow, he looked around languishing, whether caused no compassionate
cloud hovering wanted to give him rain and cooling, so far his eye
could see, the sky shone brightly in the blue dress, the sun was always
hotter and hotter, not a mild wind was blowing to cool, calm was sprawled
on the Earth, the birds had flown back in the shadow of the most remote
forest, and no village, no house waved to the wanderer.

  They passed me whin I was sittin'
in the ditch.  No sooner was they gone by than I let a bawl out o' me, an' I ran after them
for company, for it come over me how I was me lone in that dark place.  You see, your Honour,
I was only a bit of a lad, an' th' ould grandfather had made me nervous-like.  Just then I
caught the bleat of the goat an' I was overjoyed, for I thought I'd ketch her an' creep home
behind Sir Shawn an' the walkin' horse.  They parted company where the roads met, an' I heard
Sir Shawn trottin' his horse up the road in front o' me, an' Spitfire--that was Mr. Comerford's
horse--was unaisy an' refusin' the dark road under the trees.  You couldn't tell what the crathur
saw, God help us all!  No horse liked that road.  Thin I heard Spitfire clatterin' away in
the dark an' I ran, draggin' the little goat after me to get past the place where the unchancy
ould road dips down. Somewan cannoned into me runnin' out o' the dark road.  I couldn't see
his face, but he cursed me, an' I felt his hairy hands round me neck and me scratchin' and
tearin' at them.  It was that villain that's comin' here to annoy the master, or I think it
was.  Mind you, I never seen him.  But he took me up be me little coat an' he dashed me down
on the road an' nigh knocked the life out o' me.  The next thing I knew I was lying in the
bed at home an' me sore from head to foot, an' able to see only out o' wan eye be rayson of
a bandage across the other: an' me grandfather an' the neighbours wor sayin' that Mr. Terence
Comerford was kilt, and that Sir Shawn O'Gara was distracted with grief.  But the quarest thing
at all was hearin' the ould man sayin' that I was a good little boy, after all the divils and
villains he'd called me, as long as I could remember."

Patsy stopped, still turning his hat about in his hands, his velvety eyes fixed on Lady O'Gara,
where she stood leaning by the mantelpiece, her face turned away, one slender foot resting
on the marble kerb.  If Sir Felix had been aware of the expression of the eyes he might have
been startled, but even the pince-nez were not equal to that.

"Thank you very much," he said.  "That story should knock the bottom out of our friend's statement.
Merely vexatious; I said so to D.I. Fury.  Sir Shawn and Mr. Comerford parted in perfect amity?"

"Like brothers," said Patsy with emphasis, "as they wor ever an' always.  Sure the master was
never the same man since.  I often heard the people sayin' how it was the love of brothers
was betwixt them, an' more, for many a blood brother doesn't fret for his brother as the master
fretted for Master Terence.  He was never the same man since."

CHAPTER XXIII

THE HOME-COMING

After Sir Felix had gone off, profuse in his apologies, and anathematizing Mr. Fury's zeal,
Lady O'Gara went to a desk in the corner of the drawing-room, a Sheraton desk which she did
not often use.  She found a tiny key and unlocked a little cupboard door between the pigeon-holes.
She felt about the back of one of the three little drawers it contained and brought out a sliding
well, one of the innocent secret receptacles which are so easily discovered by any one who
has the clue.  She drew out a little bundle of yellow papers from it--newspaper cuttings. 
These she took to the lamp and proceeded to read with great care.

Once or twice she knitted her fair brows over something as she read; but, on the whole, she
seemed satisfied as she put the papers back into their secret place, locked the little door
and put away the key.

Then she remembered that she had not given Patsy his orders.

She went to Sir Shawn's office-room and wrote them out.  While she put the second one in its
envelope Patsy tapped at the door and came in, closing it carefully behind him.

"No wan 'ud be expectin' the master home from the Wood o' the Hare yet," he said.  "'Tis a
good step an' Sir John Fitzgerald would be very sorry to part with him after he'd carried him
in for his lunch.  Maybe 'tis staying to dinner he'd be."

Lady O'Gara looked at her watch.

"It's quite early," she said; "not much after six."

"'Tis a dark night," said Patsy.  "Maybe 'tis the way they'll be persuadin' him to wait till
the moon rises.  Sorra a bit she'll show her face till nine to-night."

Mary O'Gara's heart sank.  She knew that Patsy was nervous.

"He may come at any moment," she said.  "I don't think he'll wait for the rising of the moon."

"It isn't like the troubled times," said Patsy, "an' you listenin' here, an' me listenin' by
the corner o' the stable-yard where the wind brings the sounds from the bog-road whin 'tis
in that quarter.  Your Ladyship had great courage.  An' look at all you must ha' went through
whin we was at the War!"

He looked compassionately at her as he went towards the door.

"I'll be sendin' a boy wid this message," he said.  "Or maybe Georgie an' me would be steppin'
down there.  It's lonesome for the child to be sittin' over his books all day whin I'm busy."

He opened the door, looked into the empty hall and came back.

"I wouldn't be troublin' the master wid them ould stories," he said. "Didn't I tell my story fair!"

"You did, Patsy.  There were some things in it were not in the evidence you gave at the time."

"See that now!  T'ould mimiry of me's goin'.  Still, there wasn't much differ?"

There was some anxiety in his voice as he asked the question.

"Nothing much.  You said nothing long ago of running towards the upper road after Sir Shawn."

"Sure where else would I be runnin' to?  It isn't the lower road I'd be takin'--now is it your
Ladyship!  It wouldn't be likely."

"I suppose it wouldn't," she said, slightly smiling.

"I remember it like as if it was yesterday, the sound of the horse's hoofs climbin' and then
the clatter that broke out on the lower road whin Spitfire took the bit between his teeth an'
bolted.  I'll put the stopper on that villain's lies.  I'd like to think the master wouldn't
be troubled wid them."

"I'm afraid he'll have to hear them, Patsy.  Sir Felix was obliged to issue a summons.  It
might have been worse if Sir Felix had not been a friend."

"The divil shweep that man, Fury," said Patsy with ferocity.  "If he hadn't been a busy-body
an' stirrer-up of trouble, he'd have drowned that villain in a bog-hole."

He went off, treading delicately on his toes, which was his way of showing sympathetic respect,
and Lady O'Gara returned to the drawing-room.

She was very uneasy.  She tried reading, but her thoughts came between her and the page.  Writing
was no more helpful. And Morning
was near. -

Since then slept Bohush no more night. He waited day and night, to call him Rezek 'd thought and
what he had to say everything. Much, much! The finest mingled in his Fantasies of the woods,
and if he seemed = = now, he had to talk about how to poor orphans could help to life, he was
convinced the next second, that he which down there advised that he would order them to attack
churches and palaces. Yes, especially the churches! But again, what was his speech, he saw himself
as the center of this group, as the Lord, the lovely Carla and the many strong young men obeyed with
reverence and blind. He felt himself to be the long misunderstood, now at last came to speak
and dignity and went through the boundlessness of his time, in which night and day, even in a
gray doze were fused together, filled with the desire of all of these observations about his personality
. To direct His faithless had the Holy, cowardly, through walls in front of his eternal love
and protected from his vengeance, but the Frantishka that his reputation probably sometimes
by Carla's mouth would be heard, he wanted to give the possibility to obtain his forgiveness.
He wondered if he should meet with them and finally wrote piecemeal in the course of two Nights
and three days ago a letter to the unworthy lover. His flattering and licked Official script,
as it was in these pages have become wild. Most of the letters looked like-spirited caricatures
of the writer, who still plenty to by clothes and caps strange types and their foolishness testify
against each other, each behind the backs of the next mock and laugh at. In the first part of this
extensive letter he assured them, in the spirit of the medieval sovereigns, his good and gracious
spirit, in the second He spoke in a strange and endless vielverschnörkelten set of images of the
significance of his secret mission and in the third he promised: "In contrast, as the great
mystery and the ineffable Importance of my duties to my deepest regret to me quite impossible and unattainable
makes you at the meeting that establishes the freedom of my people and my own glory to help
them, attend, I invite you, on - (there was a near date specified) by 6 or 7 clock in the evening to
be with me. Before you and the mother I want to talk then, so much I can talk without being
a traitor, not people, because I'm afraid not, but on the beautiful, tall and just cause ...
"and was signed this lengthy invitation - That was so out of some of the strained spring,
"King Bohun. Given in Prague. " - As the hunchback read through that again, he smiled, and he was almost
on the verge the bow to destroy again. Then he thought: no, at least it is good fun, the It is
certainly sealed the letter and carried it himself to the post.


She got up at last, weary with her thoughts, and went upstairs to dress.  Before doing anything
else she opened her window and leant out. It had come on to rain.  She had known the beautiful
strange sky was ominous of wet weather, although for a little time in the afternoon it had
seemed inclined to freeze.  The heavy raindrops were falling like the pattering of feet.  A
wind got up and shook the trees.  She said to herself that she would not fancy she heard the
horse's hoofs in the distance.  When they were coming she would have no doubt.

She dressed herself finely, or she permitted Margaret McKeon to dress her, in a golden brown
dress which her husband had admired.  Through the transparent stuff that draped the corsage
modestly her warm white shoulders gleamed.  Her arms were very beautiful.  She remembered as
she sat in front of the glass, while the maid dressed her hair, that her husband had said she
was more beautiful than the girl he had married.

She went back to the drawing-room where Shot lay, stretched on the skin-rug before the fire,
now and again lifting his head to look at her.  The Poms were in their baskets either side
of the fireplace.  It was very quiet.  Not a sound disturbed the silence of the room beyond
the ticking of the clock over the mantelpiece and the purring and murmuring of the fire.

She had a book in her hand, but she did not read it.  She was too concerned about real actual
happenings for the book to keep her attention.  She held it indeed so that she might seem to
be reading if a servant came into the room.  She wondered if the story of the tramp's charge
against Sir Shawn had reached the kitchen.  Very probably it had.  The police would know of
it and from them it would spread to the village and the countryside.  The people were insatiable
of gossip, especially where their "betters" were involved.  Probably the tramp--Baker, was
it?--poor Susan's husband and Georgie's father--had made the statement at every place where
he had satisfied his thirst. What a horrid thing to have happened!  How would Shawn take the
accusation?  Of course it was absurd--nevertheless it was intolerable.

Reilly came in presently and asked if her Ladyship would have dinner at the usual hour.  It
still wanted a quarter of the hour--eight o'clock.

She answered in the affirmative.  Shawn was always vexed if she waited for him when he was
late, wishing she would remember that he might be detained by twenty things.  It would be something
to do and would suspend for a while the listening which made her head ache.  She hated these
hours of listening.  Of late years she had forgotten to be nervous when Sir Shawn was not in
good time.  He had said that he would not give her the habit of his punctual return lest a
chance unpunctuality should terrify her.  To-night she had only gone back to the listening
because Shawn was riding Mustapha.  Besides, the news she had to give him had upset her nerves
out of their usual tranquil course.

The rain beat hard against the windows.  She hoped Shawn was not crossing the bog in that rainstorm.
Some horses hated the wind and the rain and would not face them.  It would be so terribly easy
for Mustapha if he swung round or reared to topple over where the bog-pools lay dark and silent
below the road, on either side.

A thought came to her with some sense of companionship that Patsy Kenny was doubtless listening
round the corner of the stables for the sound of Mustapha's hoofs, coming closer and closer.
She had thought she heard them so often without hearing them.  Before she came down the stairs
to dinner, she had turned into the private chapel to say her night-prayers, praying for her
beloved ones, and for all the world; and as she knelt there in the dimness she had been almost
certain she heard Mustapha come.  Now, sitting by the drawing-room fire, the river of prayer
went flowing through her heart, half articulate, broken into by the effort of listening that
might become something tense and aching. It is remarkable that the German Gypsies, so they also despicable and humiliating be treated
by all the people who see it as it were down to the rural population and the insults and abuse
attach no value to say on the illiterate people they can not be offended and react on them.
You have before the "Gadsche" (Farmers) does not respect or respect. In contrast, however, they
impress the educated class. (Raien # #, # # Raile Gadsche). Mainly the authorities! Read, write,
or pursue the Art impressed them enormously! Unlike the case is over unjust treatment, or abuse;
or offensive to themselves! But I must mention again that in any criminal Action, it might mean as
she wants, a gypsy tells the other to the court or displays. Exceptions are extremely rare. Even
mortal enemies denounce or display anything, because they have up their own laws and penalties,
that everywhere and always will be exercised strictly with each other. Penalties, which are
serving or have served Gypsies, for example, because of begging, cheating, stealing etc., are not considered
dishonorable, but such penalties are viewed as an honorific sentences. At the most prestigious
and respected among Gypsies are those gypsies, who beg for good can steal tell fortunes, and so on. Such
are the other Gypsies always as "good" examples cited. Such an honor to be settled (brawi Dschuwel
# #, # # Brawo Sinto).

What religion are a thing of the Gypsies? A difficult question! Sheer linguistic research, it
seems to me you have forgotten the religious research (if I may say so) [6] Do they have their
own religion? To answer this, I fear, be even more difficult to identify as their origin. It is,
no use, no symbol, not a cult as it out that the Gypsies have a religion respectively. once one
had possessed. It is not known more than that the Christian countries of Gypsies in Roman or
Greek-Catholic Christians etc. If someone were to discover this has ever been seriously attempted?
And if they really have no religion, not because they would have to get one? Whoever the Saviour
does not know of the Christian doctrine does not know who is a pagan, so the Gypsies Heathens!
Incidentally, in some area so told. Yes, there are many nations in the large, foreign countries
and continents, and yet the Christians here send servants of God back, faithfully following
the dictates of our Saviour: but for the poor gypsy nobody cares, even though they walk around
the whole Christian world under the very eyes! "The Gypsies for religion "to have. This is a
common assertion, and so should all dismissed be? You feel no further responsibility, whether
in Christian or in church circles?

    [Footnote 6: that is, the linguist interested in the Gypsies much
    more than in the general servant of Christ. DH]

Really has no evidence of a religion of the Gypsies? - Why the Gypsies never says "The" God,
but always "my" God? (# # Miro baro Dewel - my great God) he wants to not indicate that he had a
god, whom he considers his God from the other people different, or is it just a random voice
habit? At least it does not prove, that the Gypsies also believe in a supreme being! And he
also believes in an afterlife the deceased after death.  I did not think
then that we should have need of these qualifications."

"The very man I want.  Can you send him?"

As she turned away he put his hand on her arm.  The pale smile with which she had spoken touched
the man who was accustomed to but not hardened by human suffering.

"It is not as bad as it seems," he said.  "I think he will recover consciousness presently.
He must have been thrown rather violently."

She went away somewhat comforted.  Outside the door she found Patsy seated on a chair, his
head fallen in his hands.  Shot was sitting by him, his nose on Patsy's knee.  They looked
companions in suffering.

"The doctor is hopeful," she said, with a hand on Patsy's shoulder. "Go down and tell Reilly
to come.  The doctor wants him."

The flat-faced, soft-footed Reilly was to prove indeed in those sad days and nights an untold
help and comfort.  Patsy watched him curiously and enviously, going and coming, as he would,
in and out the sick-room.

Absorbed as she was Lady O'Gara noticed that sick look of jealousy on Patsy's face.  She herself
was content to sit by her husband's bed and let others do the useful serviceable things, unless
when by the doctor's orders she went out of doors for a while.

"We don't want him to open his eyes on a white face he doesn't know. The better you look, my
Lady, the better it will be for him," said Dr. Costello.

The afternoon after the accident a watery sun had come out in fitful gleams.  It had been raining
and blowing for some hours.  There was still no sign of returning consciousness in the sick
man.  Sir Shawn's face looked heavy and dull on the pillow, where he lay as motionless as though
he were already dead.

"Concussion, not fracture," said the doctor, lifting an eyelid to look at the unseeing eye.
"He will come to himself presently."

And so saying he had sent her out to walk, bidding her exercise the dog as well as herself,
for Shot was a heartbreak in these days, lying about and sighing, a creature ill at ease.

"So long as he does not howl," she said piteously, "I do not mind.  I could not bear him to howl."

"Dogs howl for the discomfort of themselves or their human friends," said the doctor.  "You
are not superstitious, Lady O'Gara?"

"Oh, no," she said, huddling in her fur cloak with a little shiver.

"You must believe in God or the Devil.  If in God you can't admit the Devil, who is the father
of superstition as well as of lies."

"Oh, I know, I know," she said.  "But, just now, I cannot bear to hear a dog howl."

On the hall table she found a telegram from Terry.  He hoped to be with her by eleven o'clock.

The news from Terry turned her thoughts to Stella.  For twenty-four hours she had not remembered
Stella.  Terry would ask first for his father and next for Stella.

She would go and ask for Stella.  She turned back from the path that led to the South lodge,
remembering that the gate was locked.

Patsy would have the key.  She went in search of him, accompanied by the melancholy Shot and
the two Poms, rescued from the kitchen regions, to which they had been banished because of
their inane habit of barking with or without reason.  She was grateful to the Poms, now that
she was out of hearing of the sick-room, for the manner in which they leaped upon her and filled
the air with their clamorous joy.  There was nothing ominous about their yapping.

Patsy came to meet her as she entered the stableyard.  The small neat figure had a disconsolate
air.  Patsy's eyes were red, his hair rumpled.

"How is he?" he asked.

"There is no change.  The doctor is not alarmed."

"Ah, well, that's good so far.  Master Terry'll be comin'; that's better.  I'll be meetin'
him at the late train?"

"How did you know?" she asked surprised; "the telegram has only just come."

"The gorsoon that brought it spread the news along the road.  We was the last to hear it." He remembered nothing
another one, as this name. It pained him to its location in the narrow hole, and he felt as he
was the weeping of despair. As the student helped him up, and immediately regretted his despondency,
he thought of his plans and said with arg unsuccessful superiority: "I knows everything. "(He
was referring to the two angry girls hands.)" You're so obedient? "threatened the student again.
Since dared Bohush not without anxiety, "Rezek, but Rezek, be but not - please, be not so. Am
I not one, eh? I understand do, you do not? I am still with you, too - from my heart with you "The
student looked at. it was ruthless power, and the hunchback quite helpless in this penetrating,
guess look. He also said the same thing several times before he remembered the rescue: "Without me
If they had found, not so. "He said the cellar. "I have indeed known that You can do's - and
what he said with a cunning liar. And the student was be fooled. He said in a recent decision:
"Hand," and "silence. With a certain self-consciousness put the Conjoined his short fingers in
the hand of a fanatic, without consent, without Emphasis was his handshake. He knew the winner and began to
to impose conditions. Far took from him, he would down here, among them also speak for the
people and freedom. Oh, he would have no major plans. Only had to assure him Rezek, that he
might speak here. "Yes," said the Student and stressed again: "Silence" - Bohush nodded indifferently
get over it and asked: "Well, certainly - I will discuss here," The other gave him the consolation
and pushed him to? Door
  She had not waited to ask questions
of Patsy....  Was Stella very ill?  What had happened to the poor child?  How was she going
to tell Terry? These were some of the questions that hammered at her ears as she hurried on
as fast as her feet could carry her.

She was at the South lodge before she remembered the dogs.  Shot might be trusted to be quiet,
but the Poms, in a strange house, would bark incessantly.  She shut the gate between them and
her, leaving it unlocked for the doctor.  Their shrill protests followed her as she went down
the road.

She stood by the gable-end of the house and called up to the window, open at the top, which
she knew to be that of Stella's room. Slowly
and hesitantly he wanted to forgive her, and on Sunday they would probably no longer Go to
the Malvasinka, but somewhere where they can show up under many people in the orchard or in the
star. - All Bohush thought only very briefly in the few Breaks, in which he employed not the great,
which is now his duty to his life had become. It was a grueling duty that many important things
that he so after and had thought for years in the poor, now think about all at once, all at
once to survey and then in turn to express. It was such a crowd of opinions, Memories and
plans in him that always wanted a whole swarm of his lips, wild and ruthless as people from a burning
theater. Then Bohush made a strict Face and ordered thinking: "Easy, one by one. It is everyone
in it. "And especially on such occasions it happened that the whole crowd suddenly disappeared,
just melted, and was unable Bohush was abandoned in the head and out, something to think about
or even . Say Only when he drank a few glasses of hot Tschaj had the colorful mob was back there,
and the hunchback was happy and laughed until his eyes were full of tears. The unrest his character
was there become bigger and bigger. He read a lot of newspapers and old books, wrote all the notebooks
full of his ridiculous characters and slept in the midst of these occupations, regardless of whether
day or night, in a coffee shop or a church, rarely at home, a few Moments of fear sleep, from
which he started up as soon terrified.
  After all, if Georgie was safe, there isn't much more he could do to me than
he's done.  I don't know why it was I turned in at old Lizzie's cottage, an' there I found
the poor lamb up against the door, for all the world as though she'd tried to get in and dropped
where she was.  She've been talking ever since of some one follerin' her.  And then she calls
out for her mother to come. Once or twice I thought I heard her callin' Master Terry to come
and save her.  I can't tell whether she was frightened or whether she fancied it.  But she
do cry out, poor little soul, in mortal terror of some one or something."

Standing there by the foot of the bed Lady O'Gara's heart went out in tenderness to the sick
girl as though she was her own little daughter. What maze of terror had she passed through,
whether in dreams or reality, that had brought that look to her face?  While they watched Stella
got up on her elbow and peered into the corners of the room with a terrible expression.  She
struggled violently for a moment as though held in a monstrous grip.  Then she fell back on
her pillow, exhausted.

There came a knocking at the door.  The doctor.  In a few seconds Dr. Costello was in the room
with his invaluable air of never being flurried, of there being no need for flurry.  He did
not even express surprise, though he must have felt it, at seeing Stella there, nor at the
state in which he found her.

"I shall explain to you presently," Lady O'Gara said, "why she is here instead of at Inch.
Mrs. Comerford has quarrelled with her."

"Ah," said the doctor, getting out his clinical thermometer.  "It has been her bane, poor lady,
that difficult temper.  Years have not softened it apparently."

"But for all that she has a noble nature," Lady O'Gara said.  "This will be a terrible grief
to her."

"If they have fallen out I should not recommend her presence here when Miss Stella returns
to herself," the doctor said quietly.  "She must be kept very quiet.  Evidently she has had
a bad shock of some kind, following on a strained condition of the nerves."

After his examination Lady O'Gara told him something of Stella's case. He did not ask for more
than he was told.  He did not even show surprise at hearing that Stella had a mother living.

"Ah," he said, "if her mother's face could be the first thing for her eyes to rest upon when
she comes out of that bad dream, it would do a good deal to restore her sanity."

"Unfortunately we do not know where the mother is," Lady O'Gara said sorrowfully.

"I will give the patient something to keep her quiet to-night," the doctor went on.  "Perhaps
you could send some one over to my house for the medicine."

"Patsy Kenny will go."

"Now let me take you back to the house.  It is growing dusk.  Is there any one you could send
to stay with Mrs. ...  Mrs. ...?"

"Susan Horridge.  Oh, yes.  I can send Margaret McKeon, my maid.  She never talks." About half-way after the Haffdeiche, one of the farm north of the landscape towards the sea closes,
I saw a female figure to go over the fens. "Sit only the boiler at the fire, Wiebe, "I said,"
I will take them, we come back soon. "- After a while I was at Anne Lene. When I called her name,
she stopped and turned head back to me. I suddenly felt how much of her image in my memory was
extinguished. So sweet I had not imagined, and yet she was still the same; only her eyes seemed
to become darker, and the lines of the soft profile were a little rigorously considered as prior
years. I took both her hands. "Dear Anne Lene," said I, "I'm just arrived and I wanted to see
you today!"

"Thank you, Marx," she replied, "I knew you would come this day." - But their ideas did not seem
to be with this welcome, for they turned their eyes immediately to move on again from me and began
walking on the walkways. "Come with me a little," she continued, "we go together back to the farm."

"But
it gets cold, Anne Lene!"

"Oh, it's not so cold," she said, by the great scarf tightly around her shoulders moved .-- We
went on for. I tried all sorts of conversation, but none would succeed. It was already evening,
a moist northwest was blowing from the sea over the landscape, and before Haffdeich you saw us
on the night sky against the brown individual carts as shadow play . By passing After a while I
noticed a man coming down on the side of the dike and go to meet us on the paths. It was the postman
who twice for a week the farm owner's letters from the city took. I felt like Anne Lene hastened
her steps, When he came near us. "Do you have something for me, Carsten?" she asked, searching in
her voice in vain to conceal an inner restlessness.

The messenger flipped around in his leather bag between the letters. "For this time not dear lady,
"he finally said with an embarrassed friendliness by the repealed Flap dropped again over his
bag.

He bent his six foot of height to kiss her, and his voice was husky as he asked how his father was.

"He is asleep, thank God," she answered.  "He came to himself for a little time while I was
out this afternoon.  Reilly, who is invaluable, a real staff, tells me it is healthy sleep
now, not unconsciousness."

"Imagine Reilly!" said Terry, with a sigh of immense relief.  "You poor darling! to think of
your having to bear it alone!  The Colonel was so decent about leave.  He told me not to come
back till you could do without me.  A son's not as good as a daughter.  Still, I'm better than
nothing, aren't I, darling?"

"You are better than any one," his mother said, caressing his smooth young cheeks.

"You should have wired for Eileen.  What's that selfish minx doing? Making up with the lakh
of rupees, I suppose?"

"Do you know I never remembered Eileen," she said, and laughed for the first time since the
accident.  Her heart had lifted suddenly with an irrational, joyful hope.

She wanted to get Terry to bed and a night's sleep before he knew anything about Stella's illness.
In the morning the girl might be better.  Terry looked very weary.  He explained to her with
a half-shy laugh what terrible imaginings had been his companions on the railway journey.

"By Jove, darling," he said, "I never want an experience like it again. And how the train dragged!
I felt like trying to push it along with something inside me all the time till I was as tired
as though I had been really pushing it.  At one place the train stopped in the middle of a
bog--some one had pulled the communication cord--and the guard and the fireman ran along the
carriages, using frightful language, only to pull out seven drunken men going home from a fair,
in charge of one small boy who was sober.  He was explaining that he couldn't wake them up
at the last station, and that as soon as they came awake they pulled the cord. What
it has earned this stranger that I his story and his unchecked honesty longer believe, as my friends
already tried? I want him back and push me to a uncertain fate thrown into the arms? How do
I know which one dark corner spun new and even greater misery for me is, and this invention
is perhaps the Input into the vale of tears determined. And how can this nadir in the impossibility
to ? Down fighting
  She was
going to bed, she said; Reilly was taking the night watch.  She had not slept all the preceding
night.  He had not asked about Stella, although several times she had thought he was about
to ask.  She hoped he would not ask.  How was she to answer him if he did?

