In the Australasian home the table-talk is vivacious and unembarrassed; it is without stiffness
or restraint.  This does not remind one of England so much as it does of America.  But Australasia
is strictly democratic, and reserves and restraints are things that are bred by differences
of rank.

English and colonial audiences are phenomenally alert and responsive. Where masses of people
are gathered together in England, caste is submerged, and with it the English reserve; equality
exists for the moment, and every individual is free; so free from any consciousness of fetters,
indeed, that the Englishman's habit of watching himself and guarding himself against any injudicious
exposure of his feelings is forgotten, and falls into abeyance--and to such a degree indeed,
that he will bravely applaud all by himself if he wants to--an exhibition of daring which is
unusual elsewhere in the world.

But it is hard to move a new English acquaintance when he is by himself, or when the company
present is small and new to him.  He is on his guard then, and his natural reserve is to the
fore.  This has given him the false reputation of being without humor and without the appreciation
of humor.

Americans are not Englishmen, and American humor is not English humor; but both the American
and his humor had their origin in England, and have merely undergone changes brought about
by changed conditions and a new environment.  About the best humorous speeches I have yet heard
were a couple that were made in Australia at club suppers--one of them by an Englishman, the
other by an Australian.

CHAPTER XII.

There are those who scoff at the schoolboy, calling him frivolous and
shallow: Yet it was the schoolboy who said "Faith is believing what you
know ain't so."
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

In Sydney I had a large dream, and in the course of talk I told it to a missionary from India
who was on his way to visit some relatives in New Zealand.  I dreamed that the visible universe
is the physical person of God; that the vast worlds that we see twinkling millions of miles
apart in the fields of space are the blood corpuscles in His veins; and that we and the other
creatures are the microbes that charge with multitudinous life the corpuscles.

Mr. X., the missionary, considered the dream awhile, then said:

     "It is not surpassable for magnitude, since its metes and bounds are
     the metes and bounds of the universe itself; and it seems to me that
     it almost accounts for a thing which is otherwise nearly
     unaccountable--the origin of the sacred legends of the Hindoos.
     Perhaps they dream them, and then honestly believe them to be divine
     revelations of fact.  It looks like that, for the legends are built
     on so vast a scale that it does not seem reasonable that plodding
     priests would happen upon such colossal fancies when awake."

He told some of the legends, and said that they were implicitly believed by all classes of
Hindoos, including those of high social position and intelligence; and he said that this universal
credulity was a great hindrance to the missionary in his work.  Then he said something like this:

     "At home, people wonder why Christianity does not make faster
     progress in India.  They hear that the Indians believe easily, and
     that they have a natural trust in miracles and give them a
     hospitable reception.  Then they argue like this: since the Indian
     believes easily, place Christianity before them and they must
     believe; confirm its truths by the biblical miracles, and they will
     no longer doubt, The natural deduction is, that as Christianity
     makes but indifferent progress in India, the fault is with us: we
     are not fortunate in presenting the doctrines and the miracles.

     "But the truth is, we are not by any means so well equipped as they
     think.  We have not the easy task that they imagine.  To use a
     military figure, we are sent against the enemy with good powder in
     our guns, but only wads for bullets; that is to say, our miracles
     are not effective; the Hindoos do not care for them; they have more
     extraordinary ones of their own.  All the details of their own
     religion are proven and established by miracles; the details of ours
     must be proven in the same way.  When I first began my work in India
     I greatly underestimated the difficulties thus put upon my task.  A
     correction was not long in coming.  I thought as our friends think
     at home--that to prepare my childlike wonder-lovers to listen with
     favor to my grave message I only needed to charm the way to it with
     wonders, marvels, miracles.  With full confidence I told the wonders
     performed by Samson, the strongest man that had ever lived--for so I
     called him.

     "At first I saw lively anticipation and strong interest in the faces
     of my people, but as I moved along from incident to incident of the
     great story, I was distressed to see that I was steadily losing the
     sympathy of my audience.  I could not understand it.  It was a
     surprise to me, and a disappointment.  Before I was through, the
     fading sympathy had paled to indifference.  Thence to the end the
     indifference remained; I was not able to make any impression upon
     it.

     "A good old Hindoo gentleman told me where my trouble lay.  He said
     'We Hindoos recognize a god by the work of his hands--we accept no
     other testimony.  Apparently, this is also the rule with you
     Christians.  And we know when a man has his power from a god by the
     fact that he does things which he could not do, as a man, with the
     mere powers of a man.  Plainly, this is the Christian's way also, of
     knowing when a man is working by a god's power and not by his own.
     You saw that there was a supernatural property in the hair of
     Samson; for you perceived that when his hair was gone he was as
     other men.  It is our way, as I have said.  There are many nations
     in the world, and each group of nations has its own gods, and will
     pay no worship to the gods of the others.  Each group believes its
     own gods to be strongest, and it will not exchange them except for
     gods that shall be proven to be their superiors in power.  Man is
     but a weak creature, and needs the help of gods--he cannot do
     without it.  Shall he place his fate in the hands of weak gods when
     there may be stronger ones to be found?  That would be foolish.  No,
     if he hear of gods that are stronger than his own, he should not
     turn a deaf ear, for it is not a light matter that is at stake.  How
     then shall he determine which gods are the stronger, his own or
     those that preside over the concerns of other nations?  By comparing
     the known works of his own gods with the works of those others;
     there is no other way.  Now, when we make this comparison, we are
     not drawn towards the gods of any other nation.  Our gods are shown
     by their works to be the strongest, the most powerful.  The
     Christians have but few gods, and they are new--new, and not strong;
     as it seems to us.  They will increase in number, it is true, for
     this has happened with all gods, but that time is far away, many
     ages and decades of ages away, for gods multiply slowly, as is meet
     for beings to whom a thousand years is but a single moment.  Our own
     gods have been born millions of years apart.  The process is slow,
     the gathering of strength and power is similarly slow.  In the slow
     lapse of the ages the steadily accumulating power of our gods has at
     last become prodigious.  We have a thousand proofs of this in the
     colossal character of their personal acts and the acts of ordinary
     men to whom they have given supernatural qualities.  To your Samson
     was given supernatural power, and when he broke the withes, and slew
     the thousands with the jawbone of an ass, and carried away the
     gate's of the city upon his shoulders, you were amazed--and also
     awed, for you recognized the divine source of his strength.  But it
     could not profit to place these things before your Hindoo
     congregation and invite their wonder; for they would compare them
     with the deed done by Hanuman, when our gods infused their divine
     strength into his muscles; and they would be indifferent to them--as
     you saw.  In the old, old times, ages and ages gone by, when our god
     Rama was warring with the demon god of Ceylon, Rama bethought him to
     bridge the sea and connect Ceylon with India, so that his armies
     might pass easily over; and he sent his general, Hanuman, inspired
     like your own Samson with divine strength, to bring the materials
     for the bridge.  In two days Hanuman strode fifteen hundred miles,
     to the Himalayas, and took upon his shoulder a range of those lofty
     mountains two hundred miles long, and started with it toward Ceylon.
     It was in the night; and, as he passed along the plain, the people
     of Govardhun heard the thunder of his tread and felt the earth
     rocking under it, and they ran out, and there, with their snowy
     summits piled to heaven, they saw the Himalayas passing by.  And as
     this huge continent swept along overshadowing the earth, upon its
     slopes they discerned the twinkling lights of a thousand sleeping
     villages, and it was as if the constellations were filing in
     procession through the sky.  While they were looking, Hanuman
     stumbled, and a small ridge of red sandstone twenty miles long was
     jolted loose and fell.  Half of its length has wasted away in the
     course of the ages, but the other ten miles of it remain in the
     plain by Govardhun to this day as proof of the might of the
     inspiration of our gods.  You must know, yourself, that Hanuman
     could not have carried those mountains to Ceylon except by the
     strength of the gods.  You know that it was not done by his own
     strength, therefore, you know that it was done by the strength of
     the gods, just as you know that Samson carried the gates by the
     divine strength and not by his own.  I think you must concede two
     things:  First, That in carrying the gates of the city upon his
     shoulders, Samson did not establish the superiority of his gods over
     ours; secondly, That his feat is not supported by any but verbal
     evidence, while Hanuman's is not only supported by verbal evidence,
     but this evidence is confirmed, established, proven, by visible,
     tangible evidence, which is the strongest of all testimony.  We have
     the sandstone ridge, and while it remains we cannot doubt, and shall
     not.  Have you the gates?'"

CHAPTER XIII.

The timid man yearns for full value and asks a tenth.  The bold man
strikes for double value and compromises on par.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

One is sure to be struck by the liberal way in which Australasia spends money upon public works--such
as legislative buildings, town halls, hospitals, asylums, parks, and botanical gardens.  I
should say that where minor towns in America spend a hundred dollars on the town hall and on
public parks and gardens, the like towns in Australasia spend a thousand.  And I think that
this ratio will hold good in the matter of hospitals, also.  I have seen a costly and well-equipped,
and architecturally handsome hospital in an Australian village of fifteen hundred inhabitants.
It was built by private funds furnished by the villagers and the neighboring planters, and
its running expenses were drawn from the same sources.  I suppose it would be hard to match
this in any country.  This village was about to close a contract for lighting its streets with
the electric light, when I was there.  That is ahead of London.  London is still obscured by
gas--gas pretty widely scattered, too, in some of the districts; so widely indeed, that except
on moonlight nights it is difficult to find the gas lamps.

The botanical garden of Sydney covers thirty-eight acres, beautifully laid out and rich with
the spoil of all the lands and all the climes of the world.  The garden is on high ground in
the middle of the town, overlooking the great harbor, and it adjoins the spacious grounds of
Government House--fifty-six acres; and at hand also, is a recreation ground containing eighty-two
acres.  In addition, there are the zoological gardens, the race-course, and the great cricket-grounds
where the international matches are played.  Therefore there is plenty of room for reposeful
lazying and lounging, and for exercise too, for such as like that kind of work.

There are four specialties attainable in the way of social pleasure.  If you enter your name
on the Visitor's Book at Government House you will receive an invitation to the next ball that
takes place there, if nothing can be proven against you.  And it will be very pleasant; for
you will see everybody except the Governor, and add a number of acquaintances and several friends
to your list.  The Governor will be in England.  He always is.  The continent has four or five
governors, and I do not know how many it takes to govern the outlying archipelago; but anyway
you will not see them.  When they are appointed they come out from England and get inaugurated,
and give a ball, and help pray for rain, and get aboard ship and go back home.  And so the
Lieutenant-Governor has to do all the work. I was in Australasia three months and a half, and
saw only one Governor. The others were at home.

The Australasian Governor would not be so restless, perhaps, if he had a war, or a veto, or
something like that to call for his reserve-energies, but he hasn't.  There isn't any war,
and there isn't any veto in his hands.  And so there is really little or nothing doing in his
line.  The country governs itself, and prefers to do it; and is so strenuous about it and so
jealous of its independence that it grows restive if even the Imperial Government at home proposes
to help; and so the Imperial veto, while a fact, is yet mainly a name.

Thus the Governor's functions are much more limited than are a Governor's functions with us.
And therefore more fatiguing.  He is the apparent head of the State, he is the real head of
Society.  He represents culture, refinement, elevated sentiment, polite life, religion; and
by his example he propagates these, and they spread and flourish and bear good fruit.  He creates
the fashion, and leads it.  His ball is the ball of balls, and his countenance makes the horse-race
thrive.

He is usually a lord, and this is well; for his position compels him to lead an expensive life,
and an English lord is generally well equipped for that.

Another of Sydney's social pleasures is the visit to the Admiralty House; which is nobly situated
on high ground overlooking the water.  The trim boats of the service convey the guests thither;
and there, or on board the flag-ship, they have the duplicate of the hospitalities of Government
House.  The Admiral commanding a station in British waters is a magnate of the first degree,
and he is sumptuously housed, as becomes the dignity of his office.

Third in the list of special pleasures is the tour of the harbor in a fine steam pleasure-launch.
Your richer friends own boats of this kind, and they will invite you, and the joys of the trip
will make a long day seem short.

And finally comes the shark-fishing.  Sydney Harbor is populous with the finest breeds of man-eating
sharks in the world.  Some people make their living catching them; for the Government pays
a cash bounty on them.  The larger the shark the larger the bounty, and some of the sharks
are twenty feet long.  You not only get the bounty, but everything that is in the shark belongs
to you.  Sometimes the contents are quite valuable.

The shark is the swiftest fish that swims.  The speed of the fastest steamer afloat is poor
compared to his.  And he is a great gad-about, and roams far and wide in the oceans, and visits
the shores of all of them, ultimately, in the course of his restless excursions.  I have a
tale to tell now, which has not as yet been in print.  In 1870 a young stranger arrived in
Sydney, and set about finding something to do; but he knew no one, and brought no recommendations,
and the result was that he got no employment.  He had aimed high, at first, but as time and
his money wasted away he grew less and less exacting, until at last he was willing to serve
in the humblest capacities if so he might get bread and shelter. But luck was still against
him; he could find no opening of any sort. Finally his money was all gone.  He walked the streets
all day, thinking; he walked them all night, thinking, thinking, and growing hungrier and hungrier.
At dawn he found himself well away from the town and drifting aimlessly along the harbor shore.
As he was passing by a nodding shark-fisher the man looked up and said----

"Say, young fellow, take my line a spell, and change my luck for me."

"How do you know I won't make it worse?"

"Because you can't.  It has been at its worst all night.  If you can't change it, no harm's
done; if you do change it, it's for the better, of course.  Come."

"All right, what will you give?"

"I'll give you the shark, if you catch one."

"And I will eat it, bones and all.  Give me the line."

"Here you are.  I will get away, now, for awhile, so that my luck won't spoil yours; for many
and many a time I've noticed that if----there, pull in, pull in, man, you've got a bite!  I
knew how it would be.  Why, I knew you for a born son of luck the minute I saw you.  All right--he's
landed."

It was an unusually large shark--"a full nineteen-footer," the fisherman said, as he laid the
creature open with his knife.

"Now you rob him, young man, while I step to my hamper for a fresh bait. There's generally
something in them worth going for.  You've changed my luck, you see.  But my goodness, I hope
you haven't changed your own."

"Oh, it wouldn't matter; don't worry about that.  Get your bait.  I'll rob him."

When the fisherman got back the young man had just finished washing his hands in the bay, and
was starting away.

"What, you are not going?"

"Yes.  Good-bye."

"But what about your shark?"

"The shark?  Why, what use is he to me?"

"What use is he?  I like that.  Don't you know that we can go and report him to Government,
and you'll get a clean solid eighty shillings bounty? Hard cash, you know.  What do you think
about it now?"

"Oh, well, you can collect it."

"And keep it?  Is that what you mean?"

"Yes."

"Well, this is odd.  You're one of those sort they call eccentrics, I judge.  The saying is,
you mustn't judge a man by his clothes, and I'm believing it now.  Why yours are looking just
ratty, don't you know; and yet you must be rich."

"I am."

