The Coxon Fund

by Henry James

CHAPTER I

"They've got him for life!" I said to myself that evening on my way back to the station; but
later on, alone in the compartment (from Wimbledon to Waterloo, before the glory of the District
Railway) I amended this declaration in the light of the sense that my friends would probably
after all not enjoy a monopoly of Mr. Saltram.  I won't pretend to have taken his vast measure
on that first occasion, but I think I had achieved a glimpse of what the privilege of his acquaintance
might mean for many persons in the way of charges accepted.  He had been a great experience,
and it was this perhaps that had put me into the frame of foreseeing how we should all, sooner
or later, have the honour of dealing with him as a whole.  Whatever impression I then received
of the, amount of this total, I had a full enough vision of the patience of the Mulvilles.
He was to stay all the winter:  Adelaide dropped it in a tone that drew the sting from the
inevitable emphasis.  These excellent people might indeed have been content to give the circle
of hospitality a diameter of six months; but if they didn't say he was to stay all summer as
well it was only because this was more than they ventured to hope.  I remember that at dinner
that evening he wore slippers, new and predominantly purple, of some queer carpet-stuff; but
the Mulvilles were still in the stage of supposing that he might be snatched from them by higher
bidders. At a later time they grew, poor dears, to fear no snatching; but theirs was a fidelity
which needed no help from competition to make them proud.  Wonderful indeed as, when all was
said, you inevitably pronounced Frank Saltram, it was not to be overlooked that the Kent Mulvilles
were in their way still more extraordinary:  as striking an instance as could easily be encountered
of the familiar truth that remarkable men find remarkable conveniences.

They had sent for me from Wimbledon to come out and dine, and there had been an implication
in Adelaide's note--judged by her notes alone she might have been thought silly--that it was
a case in which something momentous was to be determined or done.  I had never known them not
be in a "state" about somebody, and I dare say I tried to be droll on this point in accepting
their invitation. On finding myself in the presence of their latest discovery I had not at
first felt irreverence droop--and, thank heaven, I have never been absolutely deprived of that
alternative in Mr. Saltram's company.  I saw, however--I hasten to declare it--that compared
to this specimen their other phoenixes had been birds of inconsiderable feather, and I afterwards
took credit to myself for not having even in primal bewilderments made a mistake about the
essence of the man.  He had an incomparable gift; I never was blind to it--it dazzles me still.
It dazzles me perhaps even more in remembrance than in fact, for I'm not unaware that for so
rare a subject the imagination goes to some expense, inserting a jewel here and there or giving
a twist to a plume.  How the art of portraiture would rejoice in this figure if the art of
portraiture had only the canvas!  Nature, in truth, had largely rounded it, and if memory,
hovering about it, sometimes holds her breath, this is because the voice that comes back was
really golden.

Though the great man was an inmate and didn't dress, he kept dinner on this occasion waiting,
and the first words he uttered on coming into the room were an elated announcement to Mulville
that he had found out something.  Not catching the allusion and gaping doubtless a little at
his face, I privately asked Adelaide what he had found out.  I shall never forget the look
she gave me as she replied:  "Everything!"  She really believed it.  At that moment, at any
rate, he had found out that the mercy of the Mulvilles was infinite.  He had previously of
course discovered, as I had myself for that matter, that their dinners were soignes.  Let me
not indeed, in saying this, neglect to declare that I shall falsify my counterfeit if I seem
to hint that there was in his nature any ounce of calculation.  He took whatever came, but
he never plotted for it, and no man who was so much of an absorbent can ever have been so little
of a parasite.  He had a system of the universe, but he had no system of sponging--that was
quite hand-to-mouth.  He had fine gross easy senses, but it was not his good-natured appetite
that wrought confusion.  If he had loved us for our dinners we could have paid with our dinners,
and it would have been a great economy of finer matter.  I make free in these connexions with
the plural possessive because if I was never able to do what the Mulvilles did, and people
with still bigger houses and simpler charities, I met, first and last, every demand of reflexion,
of emotion--particularly perhaps those of gratitude and of resentment. No one, I think, paid
the tribute of giving him up so often, and if it's rendering honour to borrow wisdom I've a
right to talk of my sacrifices.  He yielded lessons as the sea yields fish--I lived for a while
on this diet.  Sometimes it almost appeared to me that his massive monstrous failure--if failure
after all it was--had been designed for my private recreation.  He fairly pampered my curiosity;
but the history of that experience would take me too far.  This is not the large canvas I just
now spoke of, and I wouldn't have approached him with my present hand had it been a question
of all the features.  Frank Saltram's features, for artistic purposes, are verily the anecdotes
that are to be gathered.  Their name is legion, and this is only one, of which the interest
is that it concerns even more closely several other persons.  Such episodes, as one looks back,
are the little dramas that made up the innumerable facets of the big drama--which is yet to
be reported.

CHAPTER II

It is furthermore remarkable that though the two stories are distinct--my own, as it were,
and this other--they equally began, in a manner, the first night of my acquaintance with Frank
Saltram, the night I came back from Wimbledon so agitated with a new sense of life that, in
London, for the very thrill of it, I could only walk home.  Walking and swinging my stick,
I overtook, at Buckingham Gate, George Gravener, and George Gravener's story may be said to
have begun with my making him, as our paths lay together, come home with me for a talk.  I
duly remember, let me parenthesise, that it was still more that of another person, and also
that several years were to elapse before it was to extend to a second chapter.  I had much
to say to him, none the less, about my visit to the Mulvilles, whom he more indifferently knew,
and I was at any rate so amusing that for long afterwards he never encountered me without asking
for news of the old man of the sea. I hadn't said Mr. Saltram was old, and it was to be seen
that he was of an age to outweather George Gravener.  I had at that time a lodging in Ebury
Street, and Gravener was staying at his brother's empty house in Eaton Square.  At Cambridge,
five years before, even in our devastating set, his intellectual power had seemed to me almost
awful.  Some one had once asked me privately, with blanched cheeks, what it was then that after
all such a mind as that left standing.  "It leaves itself!" I could recollect devoutly replying.
I could smile at present for this remembrance, since before we got to Ebury Street I was struck
with the fact that, save in the sense of being well set up on his legs, George Gravener had
actually ceased to tower.  The universe he laid low had somehow bloomed again--the usual eminences
were visible.  I wondered whether he had lost his humour, or only, dreadful thought, had never
had any--not even when I had fancied him most Aristophanesque.  What was the need of appealing
to laughter, however, I could enviously enquire, where you might appeal so confidently to measurement?
Mr. Saltram's queer figure, his thick nose and hanging lip, were fresh to me:  in the light
of my old friend's fine cold symmetry they presented mere success in amusing as the refuge
of conscious ugliness.  Already, at hungry twenty-six, Gravener looked as blank and parliamentary
as if he were fifty and popular.  In my scrap of a residence--he had a worldling's eye for
its futile conveniences, but never a comrade's joke--I sounded Frank Saltram in his ears; a
circumstance I mention in order to note that even then I was surprised at his impatience of
my enlivenment.  As he had never before heard of the personage it took indeed the form of impatience
of the preposterous Mulvilles, his relation to whom, like mine, had had its origin in an early,
a childish intimacy with the young Adelaide, the fruit of multiplied ties in the previous generation.
When she married Kent Mulville, who was older than Gravener and I and much more amiable, I
gained a friend, but Gravener practically lost one.  We reacted in different ways from the
form taken by what he called their deplorable social action--the form (the term was also his)
of nasty second-rate gush.  I may have held in my 'for interieur' that the good people at Wimbledon
were beautiful fools, but when he sniffed at them I couldn't help taking the opposite line,
for I already felt that even should we happen to agree it would always be for reasons that
differed.  It came home to me that he was admirably British as, without so much as a sociable
sneer at my bookbinder, he turned away from the serried rows of my little French library.

"Of course I've never seen the fellow, but it's clear enough he's a humbug."

"Clear 'enough' is just what it isn't," I replied; "if it only were!"  That ejaculation on
my part must have been the beginning of what was to be later a long ache for final frivolous
rest. Gravener was profound enough to remark after a moment that in the first place he couldn't
be anything but a Dissenter, and when I answered that the very note of his fascination was
his extraordinary speculative breadth my friend retorted that there was no cad like your cultivated
cad, and that I might depend upon discovering--since I had had the levity not already to have
enquired--that my shining light proceeded, a generation back, from a Methodist cheesemonger.
I confess I was struck with his insistence, and I said, after reflexion:  "It may be--I admit
it may be; but why on earth are you so sure?"--asking the question mainly to lay him the trap
of saying that it was because the poor man didn't dress for dinner.  He took an instant to
circumvent my trap and come blandly out the other side.

"Because the Kent Mulvilles have invented him.  They've an infallible hand for frauds.  All
their geese are swans.  They were born to be duped, they like it, they cry for it, they don't
know anything from anything, and they disgust one--luckily perhaps!-- with Christian charity."
His vehemence was doubtless an accident, but it might have been a strange foreknowledge.  I
forget what protest I dropped; it was at any rate something that led him to go on after a moment:
"I only ask one thing--it's perfectly simple. Is a man, in a given case, a real gentleman?"

"A real gentleman, my dear fellow--that's so soon said!"

"Not so soon when he isn't!  If they've got hold of one this time he must be a great rascal!"

"I might feel injured," I answered, "if I didn't reflect that they don't rave about ME."

"Don't be too sure!  I'll grant that he's a gentleman," Gravener presently added, "if you'll
admit that he's a scamp."

"I don't know which to admire most, your logic or your benevolence."

My friend coloured at this, but he didn't change the subject. "Where did they pick him up?"

"I think they were struck with something he had published."

"I can fancy the dreary thing!"

"I believe they found out he had all sorts of worries and difficulties."

"That of course wasn't to be endured, so they jumped at the privilege of paying his debts!"
I professed that I knew nothing about his debts, and I reminded my visitor that though the
dear Mulvilles were angels they were neither idiots nor millionaires. What they mainly aimed
at was reuniting Mr. Saltram to his wife. "I was expecting to hear he has basely abandoned
her," Gravener went on, at this, "and I'm too glad you don't disappoint me."

I tried to recall exactly what Mrs. Mulville had told me.  "He didn't leave her--no.  It's
she who has left him."

"Left him to US?" Gravener asked.  "The monster--many thanks!  I decline to take him."

"You'll hear more about him in spite of yourself.  I can't, no, I really can't resist the impression
that he's a big man."  I was already mastering--to my shame perhaps be it said--just the tone
my old friend least liked.

"It's doubtless only a trifle," he returned, "but you haven't happened to mention what his
reputation's to rest on."

"Why on what I began by boring you with--his extraordinary mind."

"As exhibited in his writings?"

"Possibly in his writings, but certainly in his talk, which is far and away the richest I ever
listened to."

"And what's it all about?"

"My dear fellow, don't ask me!  About everything!" I pursued, reminding myself of poor Adelaide.
"About his ideas of things," I then more charitably added.  "You must have heard him to know
what I mean--it's unlike anything that ever WAS heard."  I coloured, I admit, I overcharged
a little, for such a picture was an anticipation of Saltram's later development and still more
of my fuller acquaintance with him.  However, I really expressed, a little lyrically perhaps,
my actual imagination of him when I proceeded to declare that, in a cloud of tradition, of
legend, he might very well go down to posterity as the greatest of all great talkers.  Before
we parted George Gravener had wondered why such a row should be made about a chatterbox the
more and why he should be pampered and pensioned.  The greater the wind-bag the greater the
calamity.  Out of proportion to everything else on earth had come to be this wagging of the
tongue.  We were drenched with talk--our wretched age was dying of it.  I differed from him
here sincerely, only going so far as to concede, and gladly, that we were drenched with sound.
It was not however the mere speakers who were killing us--it was the mere stammerers.  Fine
talk was as rare as it was refreshing--the gift of the gods themselves, the one starry spangle
on the ragged cloak of humanity.  How many men were there who rose to this privilege, of how
many masters of conversation could he boast the acquaintance?  Dying of talk?--why we were
dying of the lack of it!  Bad writing wasn't talk, as many people seemed to think, and even
good wasn't always to be compared to it.  From the best talk indeed the best writing had something
to learn.  I fancifully added that we too should peradventure be gilded by the legend, should
be pointed at for having listened, for having actually heard.  Gravener, who had glanced at
his watch and discovered it was midnight, found to all this a retort beautifully characteristic
of him.

"There's one little fact to be borne in mind in the presence equally of the best talk and of
the worst."  He looked, in saying this, as if he meant great things, and I was sure he could
only mean once more that neither of them mattered if a man wasn't a real gentleman.  Perhaps
it was what he did mean; he deprived me however of the exultation of being right by putting
the truth in a slightly different way.  "The only thing that really counts for one's estimate
of a person is his conduct."  He had his watch still in his palm, and I reproached him with
unfair play in having ascertained beforehand that it was now the hour at which I always gave
in.  My pleasantry so far failed to mollify him that he promptly added that to the rule he
had just enunciated there was absolutely no exception.

"None whatever?"

"None whatever."

"Trust me then to try to be good at any price!" I laughed as I went with him to the door. 
"I declare I will be, if I have to be horrible!"

CHAPTER III

If that first night was one of the liveliest, or at any rate was the freshest, of my exaltations,
there was another, four years later, that was one of my great discomposures.  Repetition, I
well knew by this time, was the secret of Saltram's power to alienate, and of course one would
never have seen him at his finest if one hadn't seen him in his remorses.  They set in mainly
at this season and were magnificent, elemental, orchestral.  I was quite aware that one of
these atmospheric disturbances was now due; but none the less, in our arduous attempt to set
him on his feet as a lecturer, it was impossible not to feel that two failures were a large
order, as we said, for a short course of five.  This was the second time, and it was past nine
o'clock; the audience, a muster unprecedented and really encouraging, had fortunately the attitude
of blandness that might have been looked for in persons whom the promise of (if I'm not mistaken)
An Analysis of Primary Ideas had drawn to the neighbourhood of Upper Baker Street.  There was
in those days in that region a petty lecture-hall to be secured on terms as moderate as the
funds left at our disposal by the irrepressible question of the maintenance of five small Saltrams--I
include the mother--and one large one.  By the time the Saltrams, of different sizes, were
all maintained we had pretty well poured out the oil that might have lubricated the machinery
for enabling the most original of men to appear to maintain them.

It was I, the other time, who had been forced into the breach, standing up there for an odious
lamplit moment to explain to half a dozen thin benches, where earnest brows were virtuously
void of anything so cynical as a suspicion, that we couldn't so much as put a finger on Mr.
Saltram.  There was nothing to plead but that our scouts had been out from the early hours
and that we were afraid that on one of his walks abroad--he took one, for meditation, whenever
he was to address such a company--some accident had disabled or delayed him.  The meditative
walks were a fiction, for he never, that any one could discover, prepared anything but a magnificent
prospectus; hence his circulars and programmes, of which I possess an almost complete collection,
are the solemn ghosts of generations never born.  I put the case, as it seemed to me, at the
best; but I admit I had been angry, and Kent Mulville was shocked at my want of public optimism.
This time therefore I left the excuses to his more practised patience, only relieving myself
in response to a direct appeal from a young lady next whom, in the hall, I found myself sitting.
My position was an accident, but if it had been calculated the reason would scarce have eluded
an observer of the fact that no one else in the room had an approach to an appearance.  Our
philosopher's "tail" was deplorably limp.  This visitor was the only person who looked at her
ease, who had come a little in the spirit of adventure.  She seemed to carry amusement in her
handsome young head, and her presence spoke, a little mystifyingly, of a sudden extension of
Saltram's sphere of influence.  He was doing better than we hoped, and he had chosen such an
occasion, of all occasions, to succumb to heaven knew which of his fond infirmities.  The young
lady produced an impression of auburn hair and black velvet, and had on her other hand a companion
of obscurer type, presumably a waiting-maid.  She herself might perhaps have been a foreign
countess, and before she addressed me I had beguiled our sorry interval by finding in her a
vague recall of the opening of some novel of Madame Sand.  It didn't make her more fathomable
to pass in a few minutes from this to the certitude that she was American; it simply engendered
depressing reflexions as to the possible check to contributions from Boston.  She asked me
if, as a person apparently more initiated, I would recommend further waiting, and I answered
that if she considered I was on my honour I would privately deprecate it.  Perhaps she didn't;
at any rate our talk took a turn that prolonged it till she became aware we were left almost
alone.  I presently ascertained she knew Mrs. Saltram, and this explained in a manner the miracle.
The brotherhood of the friends of the husband was as nothing to the brotherhood, or perhaps
I should say the sisterhood, of the friends of the wife. Like the Kent Mulvilles I belonged
to both fraternities, and even better than they I think I had sounded the abyss of Mrs. Saltram's
wrongs.  She bored me to extinction, and I knew but too well how she had bored her husband;
but there were those who stood by her, the most efficient of whom were indeed the handful of
poor Saltram's backers.  They did her liberal justice, whereas her mere patrons and partisans
had nothing but hatred for our philosopher. I'm bound to say it was we, however--we of both
camps, as it were-- who had always done most for her.

I thought my young lady looked rich--I scarcely knew why; and I hoped she had put her hand
in her pocket.  I soon made her out, however, not at all a fine fanatic--she was but a generous,
irresponsible enquirer.  She had come to England to see her aunt, and it was at her aunt's
she had met the dreary lady we had all so much on our mind.  I saw she'd help to pass the time
when she observed that it was a pity this lady wasn't intrinsically more interesting.  That
was refreshing, for it was an article of faith in Mrs. Saltram's circle--at least among those
who scorned to know her horrid husband--that she was attractive on her merits.  She was in
truth a most ordinary person, as Saltram himself would have been if he hadn't been a prodigy.
The question of vulgarity had no application to him, but it was a measure his wife kept challenging
you to apply.  I hasten to add that the consequences of your doing so were no sufficient reason
for his having left her to starve. "He doesn't seem to have much force of character," said
my young lady; at which I laughed out so loud that my departing friends looked back at me over
their shoulders as if I were making a joke of their discomfiture.  My joke probably cost Saltram
a subscription or two, but it helped me on with my interlocutress. "She says he drinks like
a fish," she sociably continued, "and yet she allows that his mind's wonderfully clear."  It
was amusing to converse with a pretty girl who could talk of the clearness of Saltram's mind.
I expected next to hear she had been assured he was awfully clever.  I tried to tell her--I
had it almost on my conscience--what was the proper way to regard him; an effort attended perhaps
more than ever on this occasion with the usual effect of my feeling that I wasn't after all
very sure of it.  She had come to-night out of high curiosity--she had wanted to learn this
proper way for herself.  She had read some of his papers and hadn't understood them; but it
was at home, at her aunt's, that her curiosity had been kindled--kindled mainly by his wife's
remarkable stories of his want of virtue.  "I suppose they ought to have kept me away," my
companion dropped, "and I suppose they'd have done so if I hadn't somehow got an idea that
he's fascinating.  In fact Mrs. Saltram herself says he is."

"So you came to see where the fascination resides?  Well, you've seen!"

My young lady raised fine eyebrows.  "Do you mean in his bad faith?"

"In the extraordinary effects of it; his possession, that is, of some quality or other that
condemns us in advance to forgive him the humiliation, as I may call it, to which he has subjected
us."

"The humiliation?"

"Why mine, for instance, as one of his guarantors, before you as the purchaser of a ticket."

She let her charming gay eyes rest on me.  "You don't look humiliated a bit, and if you did
I should let you off, disappointed as I am; for the mysterious quality you speak of is just
the quality I came to see."

"Oh, you can't 'see' it!" I cried.

"How then do you get at it?"

"You don't!  You mustn't suppose he's good-looking," I added.

"Why his wife says he's lovely!"

My hilarity may have struck her as excessive, but I confess it broke out afresh.  Had she acted
only in obedience to this singular plea, so characteristic, on Mrs. Saltram's part, of what
was irritating in the narrowness of that lady's point of view?  "Mrs. Saltram," I explained,
"undervalues him where he's strongest, so that, to make up for it perhaps, she overpraises
him where he's weak.  He's not, assuredly, superficially attractive; he's middle- aged, fat,
featureless save for his great eyes."

"Yes, his great eyes," said my young lady attentively.  She had evidently heard all about his
great eyes--the beaux yeux for which alone we had really done it all.

"They're tragic and splendid--lights on a dangerous coast.  But he moves badly and dresses
worse, and altogether he's anything but smart."

My companion, who appeared to reflect on this, after a moment appealed.  "Do you call him a
real gentleman?"

I started slightly at the question, for I had a sense of recognising it:  George Gravener,
years before, that first flushed night, had put me face to face with it.  It had embarrassed
me then, but it didn't embarrass me now, for I had lived with it and overcome it and disposed
of it.  "A real gentleman?  Emphatically not!"

My promptitude surprised her a little, but I quickly felt how little it was to Gravener I was
now talking.  "Do you say that because he's--what do you call it in England?--of humble extraction?"

"Not a bit.  His father was a country school-master and his mother the widow of a sexton, but
that has nothing to do with it. Cramp : When suffering from spasms or painful 'sleeping' feet, the
sign of the cross is still commonly used.

It is said that it mitigates - if it does completely alleviate -
the pain of cramping.

The sufferer, when removing their shoes and stockings, takes care
to place them in a cross-like formation.

(Such is the lingering potency of the form of the cross that it can
allegedly also charm away warts, by crossing elder sticks over them.)
Else, for cramping, acquire the patella of a lamb or sheep (the
"cramp-bone").

During the day wear it as close to the skin as possible, and at night
keep it under your pillow.

(There is at least one report of a human patella being used, but this was not a common practice.)

Epistaxis : If there is bleeding at the nose, you need a toad.

Kill it with a sharp, pointed instrument and enclose it in a small
bag which is then worn around the sufferer's neck.

(It is reported that this is also a treatment for fever.) 
Sir
K. Digby said of this charm : 
"In time of common contagion, they
use to carry about them the powder of a toad, and sometimes a living
toad or spider shut up in a box; or else they carry arsnick, or some
other venemous substance, which draws unto it the contagious air,
which otherwise would infect the party."

(Discource on Sympathy (Lond.

1658) p. 77.)
Alternatively, for epistaxis : Ask someone of the opposite gender to buy some lace without paying
them, telling them what it is for, or thanking them it is received. This lace is then worn
around the neck for nine consecutive days. By the end of this time, the sufferer will be cured
and the bleeding will never reoccur.
Hooping-cough : Hair taken from the ailing child's nape is rolled up in a piece of meat, then given
to a dog. It is believed that the cough will be transferred from the child to the animal. (This charm is
allegedly also well-known in Gloucestshire.)
Rheumatism : For "rheumatiz"

(as it was called), popular amulet is the right forefoot of a hare.

It is worn in a pocket.
West : The tail of a black cat must be acquired, on the first night of a new moon. Pluck a single
hair from the tail and rub the painful pustule nine times. Alternatively, a gold ring can be
substituted for the cat's tail (this has gained more popularity since
new moons and blacks cats have gained sorcerous connotations).

Beaumont and Fletcher alluded to this superstition in Mad Lovers, v. 4 :
"---- I have a sty here, Chilax.
Chi. I have no gold to cure it, not a penny."
Toothache : A common ailment in times of poor dental hygiene, this has more kinds of curing
charms than most other ailments. The most successful of which involved acquiring a tooth from
a corpse.

It was enclosed in a small bag and hung around the neck.

(Another popular cure involved keeping a double nut in the pocket.)
Warts : You need a large, black snail - they're easily found in hedgerows during summer. Holding
the snail by the shell, rub it for several seconds over the wart. The wart must be treated in the
same manner over nine consecutive nights - after the snail is used, every night it must be
hung on a thorn.

Such cruel treatment will cause the snail to wither away, and the wart, having been impregnated
with the snail's matter, will likewise slowly wither away. After the nine nights, the wart will
have completely disappeared.
Wens: The wen must be rubbed three times with the hand of a hanged criminal.
(Vide Brand, vol iii. p. 153.) There are many people alive today who,
when they were young, underwent this treatment.

It goes without saying that they say that, every time, it was a complete
success.

It has been noted that on execution days in Northampton, most of the
spectators were in fact people suffering with a wen - they would gather
around the gallows to receive the "dead-stroke"

(as they called it). By the time of the last execution in Northampton, only a few people sought
the "dead-stroke". Not because of any decrease in the population's
faith in this cure, but simply because of the higher fee demanded
by the hangman.

  He was impenetrable then, but ultimately
confessed.  What he confessed was more than I shall now venture to make public.  It was of
course familiar to me that Saltram was incapable of keeping the engagements which, after their
separation, he had entered into with regard to his wife, a deeply wronged, justly resentful,
quite irreproachable and insufferable person.  She often appeared at my chambers to talk over
his lapses; for if, as she declared, she had washed her hands of him, she had carefully preserved
the water of this ablution, which she handed about for analysis.  She had arts of her own of
exciting one's impatience, the most infallible of which was perhaps her assumption that we
were kind to her because we liked her.  In reality her personal fall had been a sort of social
rise--since I had seen the moment when, in our little conscientious circle, her desolation
almost made her the fashion. Her voice was grating and her children ugly; moreover she hated
the good Mulvilles, whom I more and more loved.  They were the people who by doing most for
her husband had in the long run done most for herself; and the warm confidence with which he
had laid his length upon them was a pressure gentle compared with her stiffer persuadability.
I'm bound to say he didn't criticise his benefactors, though practically he got tired of them;
she, however, had the highest standards about eleemosynary forms.  She offered the odd spectacle
of a spirit puffed up by dependence, and indeed it had introduced her to some excellent society.
She pitied me for not knowing certain people who aided her and whom she doubtless patronised
in turn for their luck in not knowing me.  I dare say I should have got on with her better
if she had had a ray of imagination--if it had occasionally seemed to occur to her to regard
Saltram's expressions of his nature in any other manner than as separate subjects of woe. 
They were all flowers of his character, pearls strung on an endless thread; but she had a stubborn
little way of challenging them one after the other, as if she never suspected that he HAD a
character, such as it was, or that deficiencies might be organic; the irritating effect of
a mind incapable of a generalisation.  One might doubtless have overdone the idea that there
was a general licence for such a man; but if this had happened it would have been through one's
feeling that there could be none for such a woman.

I recognised her superiority when I asked her about the aunt of the disappointed young lady:
it sounded like a sentence from an English-French or other phrase-book.  She triumphed in what
she told me and she may have triumphed still more in what she withheld. My friend of the other
evening, Miss Anvoy, had but lately come to England; Lady Coxon, the aunt, had been established
here for years in consequence of her marriage with the late Sir Gregory of that name.  She
had a house in the Regent's Park, a Bath-chair and a fernery; and above all she had sympathy.
Mrs. Saltram had made her acquaintance through mutual friends.  This vagueness caused me to
feel how much I was out of it and how large an independent circle Mrs. Saltram had at her command.
I should have been glad to know more about the disappointed young lady, but I felt I should
know most by not depriving her of her advantage, as she might have mysterious means of depriving
me of my knowledge.  For the present, moreover, this experience was stayed, Lady Coxon having
in fact gone abroad accompanied by her niece.  The niece, besides being immensely clever, was
an heiress, Mrs. Saltram said; the only daughter and the light of the eyes of some great American
merchant, a man, over there, of endless indulgences and dollars.  She had pretty clothes and
pretty manners, and she had, what was prettier still, the great thing of all.  The great thing
of all for Mrs. Saltram was always sympathy, and she spoke as if during the absence of these
ladies she mightn't know where to turn for it.  A few months later indeed, when they had come
back, her tone perceptibly changed:  she alluded to them, on my leading her up to it, rather
as to persons in her debt for favours received.  What had happened I didn't know, but I saw
it would take only a little more or a little less to make her speak of them as thankless subjects
of social countenance--people for whom she had vainly tried to do something.  I confess I saw
how it wouldn't be in a mere week or two that I should rid myself of the image of Ruth Anvoy,
in whose very name, when I learnt it, I found something secretly to like.  I should probably
neither see her nor hear of her again:  the knight's widow (he had been mayor of Clockborough)
would pass away and the heiress would return to her inheritance.  I gathered with surprise
that she had not communicated to his wife the story of her attempt to hear Mr..Saltram, and
I founded this reticence on the easy supposition that Mrs. Saltram had fatigued by overpressure
the spring of the sympathy of which she boasted.  The girl at any rate would forget the small
adventure, be distracted, take a husband; besides which she would lack occasion to repeat her
experiment.

We clung to the idea of the brilliant course, delivered without an accident, that, as a lecturer,
would still make the paying public aware of our great man, but the fact remained that in the
case of an inspiration so unequal there was treachery, there was fallacy at least, in the very
conception of a series.  In our scrutiny of ways and means we were inevitably subject to the
old convention of the synopsis, the syllabus, partly of course not to lose the advantage of
his grand free hand in drawing up such things; but for myself I laughed at our playbills even
while I stickled for them.  It was indeed amusing work to be scrupulous for Frank Saltram,
who also at moments laughed about it, so far as the comfort of a sigh so unstudied as to be
cheerful might pass for such a sound.  He admitted with a candour all his own that he was in
truth only to be depended on in the Mulvilles' drawing-room.  "Yes," he suggestively allowed,
"it's there, I think, that I'm at my best; quite late, when it gets toward eleven--and if I've
not been too much worried." We all knew what too much worry meant; it meant too enslaved for
the hour to the superstition of sobriety.  On the Saturdays I used to bring my portmanteau,
so as not to have to think of eleven o'clock trains.  I had a bold theory that as regards this
temple of talk and its altars of cushioned chintz, its pictures and its flowers, its large
fireside and clear lamplight, we might really arrive at something if the Mulvilles would but
charge for admission.  Here it was, however, that they shamelessly broke down; as there's a
flaw in every perfection this was the inexpugnable refuge of their egotism.  They declined
to make their saloon a market, so that Saltram's golden words continued the sole coin that
rang there.  It can have happened to no man, however, to be paid a greater price than such
an enchanted hush as surrounded him on his greatest nights.  The most profane, on these occasions,
felt a presence; all minor eloquence grew dumb.  Adelaide Mulville, for the pride of her hospitality,
anxiously watched the door or stealthily poked the fire.  I used to call it the music-room,
for we had anticipated Bayreuth.  The very gates of the kingdom of light seemed to open and
the horizon of thought to flash with the beauty of a sunrise at sea.

In the consideration of ways and means, the sittings of our little board, we were always conscious
of the creak of Mrs. Saltram's shoes.  She hovered, she interrupted, she almost presided, the
state of affairs being mostly such as to supply her with every incentive for enquiring what
was to be done next.  It was the pressing pursuit of this knowledge that, in concatenations
of omnibuses and usually in very wet weather, led her so often to my door.  She thought us
spiritless creatures with editors and publishers; but she carried matters to no great effect
when she personally pushed into back-shops.  She wanted all moneys to be paid to herself: 
they were otherwise liable to such strange adventures.  They trickled away into the desert--they
were mainly at best, alas, a slender stream.  The editors and the publishers were the last
people to take this remarkable thinker at the valuation that has now pretty well come to be
established.  The former were half-distraught between the desire to "cut" him and the difficulty
of finding a crevice for their shears; and when a volume on this or that portentous subject
was proposed to the latter they suggested alternative titles which, as reported to our friend,
brought into his face the noble blank melancholy that sometimes made it handsome.  The title
of an unwritten book didn't after all much matter, but some masterpiece of Saltram's may have
died in his bosom of the shudder with which it was then convulsed.  The ideal solution, failing
the fee at Kent Mulville's door, would have been some system of subscription to projected treatises
with their non- appearance provided for--provided for, I mean, by the indulgence of subscribers.
The author's real misfortune was that subscribers were so wretchedly literal.  When they tastelessly
enquired why publication hadn't ensued I was tempted to ask who in the world had ever been
so published.  Nature herself had brought him out in voluminous form, and the money was simply
a deposit on borrowing the work.

CHAPTER V

I was doubtless often a nuisance to my friends in those years; but there were sacrifices I
declined to make, and I never passed the hat to George Gravener.  I never forgot our little
discussion in Ebury Street, and I think it stuck in my throat to have to treat him to the avowal
I had found so easy to Mss Anvoy.  It had cost me nothing to confide to this charming girl,
but it would have cost me much to confide to the friend of my youth, that the character of
the "real gentleman" wasn't an attribute of the man I took such pains for.  Was this because
I had already generalised to the point of perceiving that women are really the unfastidious
sex?  I knew at any rate that Gravener, already quite in view but still hungry and frugal,
had naturally enough more ambition than charity.  He had sharp aims for stray sovereigns, being
in view most from the tall steeple of Clockborough.  His immediate ambition was to occupy e
lui seul the field of vision of that smokily-seeing city, and all his movements and postures
were calculated for the favouring angle. The movement of the hand as to the pocket had thus
to alternate gracefully with the posture of the hand on the heart.  He talked to Clockborough
in short only less beguilingly than Frank Saltram talked to HIS electors; with the difference
to our credit, however, that we had already voted and that our candidate had no antagonist
but himself.  He had more than once been at Wimbledon--it was Mrs. Mulville's work not mine--and
by the time the claret was served had seen the god descend.  He took more pains to swing his
censer than I had expected, but on our way back to town he forestalled any little triumph I
might have been so artless as to express by the observation that such a man was--a hundred
times!--a man to use and never a man to be used by.  I remember that this neat remark humiliated
me almost as much as if virtually, in the fever of broken slumbers, I hadn't often made it
myself.  The difference was that on Gravener's part a force attached to it that could never
attach to it on mine.  He was ABLE to use people--he had the machinery; and the irony of Saltram's
being made showy at Clockborough came out to me when he said, as if he had no memory of our
original talk and the idea were quite fresh to him:  "I hate his type, you know, but I'll be
hanged if I don't put some of those things in.  I can find a place for them:  we might even
find a place for the fellow himself."  I myself should have had some fear- -not, I need scarcely
say, for the "things" themselves, but for some other things very near them; in fine for the
rest of my eloquence.

Later on I could see that the oracle of Wimbledon was not in this case so appropriate as he
would have been had the polities of the gods only coincided more exactly with those of the
party.  There was a distinct moment when, without saying anything more definite to me, Gravener
entertained the idea of annexing Mr. Saltram.  Such a project was delusive, for the discovery
of analogies between his body of doctrine and that pressed from headquarters upon Clockborough--the
bottling, in a word, of the air of those lungs for convenient public uncorking in corn-exchanges--was
an experiment for which no one had the leisure.  The only thing would have been to carry him
massively about, paid, caged, clipped; to turn him on for a particular occasion in a particular
channel. Frank Saltram's channel, however, was essentially not calculable, and there was no
knowing what disastrous floods might have ensued. For what there would have been to do THE
EMPIRE, the great newspaper, was there to look to; but it was no new misfortune that there
were delicate situations in which THE EMPIRE broke down.  In fine there was an instinctive
apprehension that a clever young journalist commissioned to report on Mr. Saltram might never
come back from the errand.  No one knew better than George Gravener that that was a time when
prompt returns counted double.  If he therefore found our friend an exasperating waste of orthodoxy
it was because of his being, as he said, poor Gravener, up in the clouds, not because he was
down in the dust.  The man would have been, just as he was, a real enough gentleman if he could
have helped to put in a real gentleman.  Gravener's great objection to the actual member was
that he was not one.

Lady Coxon had a fine old house, a house with "grounds," at Clockborough, which she had let;
but after she returned from abroad I learned from Mrs. Saltram that the lease had fallen in
and that she had gone down to resume possession.  I could see the faded red livery, the big
square shoulders, the high-walled garden of this decent abode.  As the rumble of dissolution
grew louder the suitor would have pressed his suit, and I found myself hoping the politics
of the late Mayor's widow wouldn't be such as to admonish her to ask him to dinner; perhaps
indeed I went so far as to pray, they would naturally form a bar to any contact.  I tried to
focus the many-buttoned page, in the daily airing, as he perhaps even pushed the Bath-chair
over somebody's toes.  I was destined to hear, none the less, through Mrs. Saltram--who, I
afterwards learned, was in correspondence with Lady Coxon's housekeeper--that Gravener was
known to have spoken of the habitation I had in my eye as the pleasantest thing at Clockborough.
On his part, I was sure, this was the voice not of envy but of experience.  The vivid scene
was now peopled, and I could see him in the old-time garden with Miss Anvoy, who would be certain,
and very justly, to think him good- looking.  It would be too much to describe myself as troubled
by this play of surmise; but I occur to remember the relief, singular enough, of feeling it
suddenly brushed away by an annoyance really much greater; an annoyance the result of its happening
to come over me about that time with a rush that I was simply ashamed of Frank Saltram.  There
were limits after all, and my mark at last had been reached.

I had had my disgusts, if I may allow myself to-day such an expression; but this was a supreme
revolt.  Certain things cleared up in my mind, certain values stood out.  It was all very well
to have an unfortunate temperament; there was nothing so unfortunate as to have, for practical
purposes, nothing else.  I avoided George Gravener at this moment and reflected that at such
a time I should do so most effectually by leaving England.  I wanted to forget Frank Saltram--that
was all.  I didn't want to do anything in the world to him but that.  Indignation had withered
on the stalk, and I felt that one could pity him as much as one ought only by never thinking
of him again.  It wasn't for anything he had done to me; it was for what he had done to the
Mulvilles.  Adelaide cried about it for a week, and her husband, profiting by the example so
signally given him of the fatal effect of a want of character, left the letter, the drop too
much, unanswered.  The letter, an incredible one, addressed by Saltram to Wimbledon during
a stay with the Pudneys at Ramsgate, was the central feature of the incident, which, however,
had many features, each more painful than whichever other we compared it with.  The Pudneys
had behaved shockingly, but that was no excuse.  Base ingratitude, gross indecency--one had
one's choice only of such formulas as that the more they fitted the less they gave one rest.
These are dead aches now, and I am under no obligation, thank heaven, to be definite about
the business.  There are things which if I had had to tell them--well, would have stopped me
off here altogether.

I went abroad for the general election, and if I don't know how much, on the Continent, I forgot,
I at least know how much I missed, him.  At a distance, in a foreign land, ignoring, abjuring,
unlearning him, I discovered what he had done for me.  I owed him, oh unmistakeably, certain
noble conceptions; I had lighted my little taper at his smoky lamp, and lo it continued to
twinkle. But the light it gave me just showed me how much more I wanted.  I was pursued of
course by letters from Mrs. Saltram which I didn't scruple not to read, though quite aware
her embarrassments couldn't but be now of the gravest.  I sacrificed to propriety by simply
putting them away, and this is how, one day as my absence drew to an end, my eye, while I rummaged
in my desk for another paper, was caught by a name on a leaf that had detached itself from
the packet.  The allusion was to Miss Anvoy, who, it appeared, was engaged to be married to
Mr. George Gravener; and the news was two months old.  A direct question of Mrs. Saltram's
had thus remained unanswered--she had enquired of me in a postscript what sort of man this
aspirant to such a hand might be.  The great other fact about him just then was that he had
been triumphantly returned for Clockborough in the interest of the party that had swept the
country--so that I might easily have referred Mrs. Saltram to the journals of the day.  Yet
when I at last wrote her that I was coming home and would discharge my accumulated burden by
seeing her, I but remarked in regard to her question that she must really put it to Miss Anvoy.

CHAPTER VI

I had almost avoided the general election, but some of its consequences, on my return, had
smartly to be faced.  The season, in London, began to breathe again and to flap its folded
wings. Confidence, under the new Ministry, was understood to be reviving, and one of the symptoms,
in a social body, was a recovery of appetite.  People once more fed together, and it happened
that, one Saturday night, at somebody's house, I fed with George Gravener. When the ladies
left the room I moved up to where he sat and begged to congratulate him.  "On my election?"
he asked after a moment; so that I could feign, jocosely, not to have heard of that triumph
and to be alluding to the rumour of a victory still more personal.  I dare say I coloured however,
for his political success had momentarily passed out of my mind.  What was present to it was
that he was to marry that beautiful girl; and yet his question made me conscious of some discomposure--I
hadn't intended to put this before everything.  He himself indeed ought gracefully to have
done so, and I remember thinking the whole man was in this assumption that in expressing my
sense of what he had won I had fixed my thoughts on his "seat."  We straightened the matter
out, and he was so much lighter in hand than I had lately seen him that his spirits might well
have been fed from a twofold source.  He was so good as to say that he hoped I should soon
make the acquaintance of Miss Anvoy, who, with her aunt, was presently coming up to town. 
Lady Coxon, in the country, had been seriously unwell, and this had delayed their arrival.
I told him I had heard the marriage would be a splendid one; on which, brightened and humanised
by his luck, he laughed and said "Do you mean for HER?"  When I had again explained what I
meant he went on:  "Oh she's an American, but you'd scarcely know it; unless, perhaps," he
added, "by her being used to more money than most girls in England, even the daughters of rich
men.  That wouldn't in the least do for a fellow like me, you know, if it wasn't for the great
liberality of her father.  He really has been most kind, and everything's quite satisfactory."
He added that his eldest brother had taken a tremendous fancy to her and that during a recent
visit at Coldfield she had nearly won over Lady Maddock.  I gathered from something he dropped
later on that the free-handed gentleman beyond the seas had not made a settlement, but had
given a handsome present and was apparently to be looked to, across the water, for other favours.
People are simplified alike by great contentments and great yearnings, and, whether or no it
was Gravener's directness that begot my own, I seem to recall that in some turn taken by our
talk he almost imposed it on me as an act of decorum to ask if Miss Anvoy had also by chance
expectations from her aunt.  My enquiry drew out that Lady Coxon, who was the oddest of women,
would have in any contingency to act under her late husband's will, which was odder still,
saddling her with a mass of queer obligations complicated with queer loopholes.  There were
several dreary people, Coxon cousins, old maids, to whom she would have more or less to minister.
Gravener laughed, without saying no, when I suggested that the young lady might come in through
a loophole; then suddenly, as if he suspected my turning a lantern on him, he declared quite
dryly:  "That's all rot--one's moved by other springs!"

A fortnight later, at Lady Coxon's own house, I understood well enough the springs one was
moved by.  Gravener had spoken of me there as an old friend, and I received a gracious invitation
to dine.  The Knight's widow was again indisposed--she had succumbed at the eleventh hour;
so that I found Miss Anvoy bravely playing hostess without even Gravener's help, since, to
make matters worse, he had just sent up word that the House, the insatiable House, with which
he supposed he had contracted for easier terms, positively declined to release him.  I was
struck with the courage, the grace and gaiety of the young lady left thus to handle the fauna
and flora of the Regent's Park.  I did what I could to help her to classify them, after I had
recovered from the confusion of seeing her slightly disconcerted at perceiving in the guest
introduced by her intended the gentleman with whom she had had that talk about Frank Saltram.
I had at this moment my first glimpse of the fact that she was a person who could carry a responsibility;
but I leave the reader to judge of my sense of the aggravation, for either of us, of such a
burden, when I heard the servant announce Mrs. Saltram.  From what immediately passed between
the two ladies I gathered that the latter had been sent for post-haste to fill the gap created
by the absence of the mistress of the house.  "Good!" I remember crying, "she'll be put by
ME;" and my apprehension was promptly justified.  Mrs. Saltram taken in to dinner, and taken
in as a consequence of an appeal to her amiability, was Mrs. Saltram with a vengeance.  I asked
myself what Miss Anvoy meant by doing such things, but the only answer I arrived at was that
Gravener was verily fortunate.  She hadn't happened to tell him of her visit to Upper Baker
Street, but she'd certainly tell him to-morrow; not indeed that this would make him like any
better her having had the innocence to invite such a person as Mrs. Saltram on such an occasion.
It could only strike me that I had never seen a young woman put such ignorance into her cleverness,
such freedom into her modesty; this, I think, was when, after dinner, she said to me frankly,
with almost jubilant mirth:  "Oh you don't admire Mrs. Saltram?"  Why should I?  This was truly
a young person without guile.  I had briefly to consider before I could reply that my objection
to the lady named was the objection often uttered about people met at the social board--I knew
all her stories.  Then as Miss Anvoy remained momentarily vague I added:  "Those about her
husband."

"Oh yes, but there are some new ones."

"None for me.  Ah novelty would be pleasant!"

"Doesn't it appear that of late he has been particularly horrid?"

"His fluctuations don't matter", I returned, "for at night all cats are grey.  You saw the
shade of this one the night we waited for him together.  What will you have?  He has no dignity."

Miss Anvoy, who had been introducing with her American distinctness, looked encouragingly round
at some of the combinations she had risked.  "It's too bad I can't see him."

"You mean Gravener won't let you?"

"I haven't asked him.  He lets me do everything."

"But you know he knows him and wonders what some of us see in him."

"We haven't happened to talk of him," the girl said.

"Get him to take you some day out to see the Mulvilles." 

"She'd been gone for an hour since she left," the man explained.

"They left not much earlier. After the argument with the Mister about the automobile."
"What argument?"

I followed. "Please explain!"

"Not much of an argument," he said, "it was her mistake as always.

If she was old she'd have more patience; but as always, you saw how fast she turns angry. Of
course she was upset when she finished her drink and you weren't there."
"What all did she say," I asked.
He chuckled.

"It doesn't matter."
"Tell me!"
"Well, she blamed you because of the color of your hair."
"To quote her--"
"What do you expect from a woman that changes her hair yellow and eyelashes dark?"
"That witch! Do you think I do?"
"I didn't think about it."
I felt angry, but didn't follow the feeling. I had to find out more. I made a note to beat
him when I got the chance.
"Anything else you forgot to mention?"
"She looked ill when Sam was going to defend you, she said you can't do things like that. That
it was horrid, some other things, to wait freezing, and if she waited longer she would be ill.
Sam talked her into giving you fifteen more minutes, but after that she would start. She had
no idea there was an accident. She thought you were taking your time. She wanted Sam to get you
aqquanted with the new German tourists. Sam and I said no way, then she figured you'd do what she
planned without them.
"It's insane she left the car," I said.
"She cant drive, and I didn't to go without knowing what happened to you."
"You didn't do it!" I yelled.
"Yes ma'am. That was where it came into play. We talked, and eventually made me come find you."

"Made you!" I echoed, desperately. "They didn't 'make' you do it, I bet."
"They can't do it themselves. You can't make a someone drive a car if he won't. So they went off
in the Germans' car, and the Germans were excited."
"Oh!" I bellowed, so lame now that anger leaked out of my heart like water through a river. "I
did this. Did they fire you?"
"I didn't give them time. After a few whispers the woman said, I felt angry, and fired myself.
That is, I gave them two weeks notice. It would have been bad form to leave right there, without
anyone, on tour."
I started crying, and I was barely thinking about myself that I let
them run down. "Please forgive me," I implored. "But you can't, of
course. I got you fired. And you needed the job, I know, from what
you said."  
"There's nothing to forgive, sister," he said. "You
have to forgive me, if made you worry. It wasn't your fault. I couldn't
stand that witches mouth, so I have to blame myself. And it will turn
out right in the end."  
"You refused to drive their car because
you would stay behind and find me--"  
"Any decent man would do
that--even a driver." He spoke soft for comfort. "Besides, I wanted
to stop. You're the only sister I ever had."  
"You hate me," I
whined.  
"I don't. Please don't cry."  
I laughed past my tears.
"Come on," he said, softly. "Let me take you down. I have to talk
with the guide about those women, and--"  
"Oh, leave the women
alone!" I begged. "Who cares, now? Let them go."  
"I suppose we
might as well," he said. He put some money into the guide's hand,
and thanked him for his help. But another bullet shot through my remorseful
heart.

CHAPTER VII

One of the consequences, for the Mulvilles, of the sacrifices they made for Frank Saltram was
that they had to give up their carriage. Adelaide drove gently into London in a one-horse greenish
thing, an early Victorian landau, hired, near at hand, imaginatively, from a broken-down jobmaster
whose wife was in consumption--a vehicle that made people turn round all the more when her
pensioner sat beside her in a soft white hat and a shawl, one of the dear woman's own. This
was his position and I dare say his costume when on an afternoon in July she went to return
Miss Anvoy's visit.  The wheel of fate had now revolved, and amid silences deep and exhaustive,
compunctions and condonations alike unutterable, Saltram was reinstated.  Was it in pride or
in penance that Mrs. Mulville had begun immediately to drive him about?  If he was ashamed
of his ingratitude she might have been ashamed of her forgiveness; but she was incorrigibly
capable of liking him to be conspicuous in the landau while she was in shops or with her acquaintance.
However, if he was in the pillory for twenty minutes in the Regent's Park--I mean at Lady Coxon's
door while his companion paid her call--it wasn't to the further humiliation of any one concerned
that she presently came out for him in person, not even to show either of them what a fool
she was that she drew him in to be introduced to the bright young American.  Her account of
the introduction I had in its order, but before that, very late in the season, under Gravener's
auspices, I met Miss Anvoy at tea at the House of Commons.  The member for Clockborough had
gathered a group of pretty ladies, and the Mulvilles were not of the party.  On the great terrace,
as I strolled off with her a little, the guest of honour immediately exclaimed to me:  "I've
seen him, you know--I've seen him!"  She told me about Saltram's call.

"And how did you find him?"

"Oh so strange!"

"You didn't like him?"

"I can't tell till I see him again."

"You want to do that?"

She had a pause.  "Immensely."

We went no further; I fancied she had become aware Gravener was looking at us.  She turned
back toward the knot of the others, and I said:  "Dislike him as much as you will--I see you're
bitten."

"Bitten?"  I thought she coloured a little.

"Oh it doesn't matter!" I laughed; "one doesn't die of it."

"I hope I shan't die of anything before I've seen more of Mrs. Mulville."  I rejoiced with
her over plain Adelaide, whom she pronounced the loveliest woman she had met in England; but
before we separated I remarked to her that it was an act of mere humanity to warn her that
if she should see more of Frank Saltram--which would be likely to follow on any increase of
acquaintance with Mrs. Mulville--she might find herself flattening her nose against the clear
hard pane of an eternal question--that of the relative, that of the opposed, importances of
virtue and brains.  She replied that this was surely a subject on which one took everything
for granted; whereupon I admitted that I had perhaps expressed myself ill.  What I referred
to was what I had referred to the night we met in Upper Baker Street--the relative importance
(relative to virtue) of other gifts.  She asked me if I called virtue a gift--a thing handed
to us in a parcel on our first birthday; and I declared that this very enquiry proved to me
the problem had already caught her by the skirt.  She would have help however, the same help
I myself had once had, in resisting its tendency to make one cross.

"What help do you mean?"

"That of the member for Clockborough."

She stared, smiled, then returned:  "Why my idea has been to help HIM!"

She HAD helped him--I had his own word for it that at Clockborough her bedevilment of the voters
had really put him in.  She would do so doubtless again and again, though I heard the very
next month that this fine faculty had undergone a temporary eclipse.  News of the catastrophe
first came to me from Mrs. Saltram, and it was afterwards confirmed at Wimbledon:  poor Miss
Anvoy was in trouble- -great disasters in America had suddenly summoned her home.  Her father,
in New York, had suffered reverses, lost so much money that it was really vexatious as showing
how much he had had.  It was Adelaide who told me she had gone off alone at less than a week's
notice.

"Alone?  Gravener has permitted that?"

"What will you have?  The House of Commons!"

I'm afraid I cursed the House of Commons:  I was so much interested.  Of course he'd follow
her as soon as he was free to make her his wife; only she mightn't now be able to bring him
anything like the marriage-portion of which he had begun by having the virtual promise.  Mrs.
Mulville let me know what was already said:  she was charming, this American girl, but really
these American fathers--!  What was a man to do?  Mr. Saltram, according to Mrs. Mulville,
was of opinion that a man was never to suffer his relation to money to become a spiritual relation--he
was to keep it exclusively material.  "Moi pas comprendre!" I commented on this; in rejoinder
to which Adelaide, with her beautiful sympathy, explained that she supposed he simply meant
that the thing was to use it, don't you know? but not to think too much about it.  "To take
it, but not to thank you for it?" I still more profanely enquired.  For a quarter of an hour
afterwards she wouldn't look at me, but this didn't prevent my asking her what had been the
result, that afternoon--in the Regent's Park, of her taking our friend to see Miss Anvoy.

"Oh so charming!" she answered, brightening.  "He said he recognised in her a nature he could
absolutely trust."

"Yes, but I'm speaking of the effect on herself."

Mrs. Mulville had to remount the stream.  "It was everything one could wish."

Something in her tone made me laugh.  "Do you mean she gave him--a dole?"

"Well, since you ask me!"

"Right there on the spot?"

Again poor Adelaide faltered.  "It was to me of course she gave it."

I stared; somehow I couldn't see the scene.  "Do you mean a sum of money?"

"It was very handsome."  Now at last she met my eyes, though I could see it was with an effort.
"Thirty pounds."

"Straight out of her pocket?"

"Out of the drawer of a table at which she had been writing.  She just slipped the folded notes
into my hand.  He wasn't looking; it was while he was going back to the carriage."  "Oh," said
Adelaide reassuringly, "I take care of it for him!"  The dear practical soul thought my agitation,
for I confess I was agitated, referred to the employment of the money.  Her disclosure made
me for a moment muse violently, and I dare say that during that moment I wondered if anything
else in the world makes people so gross as unselfishness. I uttered, I suppose, some vague
synthetic cry, for she went on as if she had had a glimpse of my inward amaze at such passages.
"I assure you, my dear friend, he was in one of his happy hours."

But I wasn't thinking of that.  "Truly indeed these Americans!" I said.  "With her father in
the very act, as it were, of swindling her betrothed!"

Mrs. Mulville stared.  "Oh I suppose Mr. Anvoy has scarcely gone bankrupt--or whatever he has
done--on purpose.  Very likely they won't be able to keep it up, but there it was, and it was
a very beautiful impulse."

"You say Saltram was very fine?"

"Beyond everything.  He surprised even me."

"And I know what YOU'VE enjoyed."  After a moment I added:  "Had he peradventure caught a glimpse
of the money in the table-drawer?"

At this my companion honestly flushed.  "How can you be so cruel when you know how little he
calculates?"

"Forgive me, I do know it.  But you tell me things that act on my nerves.  I'm sure he hadn't
caught a glimpse of anything but some splendid idea."

Mrs. Mulville brightly concurred.  "And perhaps even of her beautiful listening face."

"Perhaps even!  And what was it all about?"

"His talk?  It was apropos of her engagement, which I had told him about:  the idea of marriage,
the philosophy, the poetry, the sublimity of it."  It was impossible wholly to restrain one's
mirth at this, and some rude ripple that I emitted again caused my companion to admonish me.
"It sounds a little stale, but you know his freshness."

"Of illustration?  Indeed I do!"

"And how he has always been right on that great question."

"On what great question, dear lady, hasn't he been right?"

"Of what other great men can you equally say it?--and that he has never, but NEVER, had a deflexion?"
Mrs. Mulville exultantly demanded.

I tried to think of some other great man, but I had to give it up. "Didn't Miss Anvoy express
her satisfaction in any less diffident way than by her charming present?" I was reduced to
asking instead.

"Oh yes, she overflowed to me on the steps while he was getting into the carriage."  These
words somehow brushed up a picture of Saltram's big shawled back as he hoisted himself into
the green landau.  "She said she wasn't disappointed," Adelaide pursued.

I turned it over.  "Did he wear his shawl?"

"His shawl?"  She hadn't even noticed.

"I mean yours."

"He looked very nice, and you know he's really clean.  Miss Anvoy used such a remarkable expression--she
said his mind's like a crystal!"

I pricked up my ears.  "A crystal?"

"Suspended in the moral world--swinging and shining and flashing there.  She's monstrously
clever, you know."

I thought again.  "Monstrously!"

CHAPTER VIII

George Gravener didn't follow her, for late in September, after the House had risen, I met
him in a railway-carriage.  He was coming up from Scotland and I had just quitted some relations
who lived near Durham.  The current of travel back to London wasn't yet strong; at any rate
on entering the compartment I found he had had it for some time to himself.  We fared in company,
and though he had a blue- book in his lap and the open jaws of his bag threatened me with the
white teeth of confused papers, we inevitably, we even at last sociably conversed.  I saw things
weren't well with him, but I asked no question till something dropped by himself made, as it
had made on another occasion, an absence of curiosity invidious.  He mentioned that he was
worried about his good old friend Lady Coxon, who, with her niece likely to be detained some
time in America, lay seriously ill at Clockborough, much on his mind and on his hands.

"Ah Miss Anvoy's in America?"

"Her father has got into horrid straits--has lost no end of money."

I waited, after expressing due concern, but I eventually said:  "I hope that raises no objection
to your marriage."

"None whatever; moreover it's my trade to meet objections.  But it may create tiresome delays,
of which there have been too many, from various causes, already.  Lady Coxon got very bad,
then she got much better.  Then Mr. Anvoy suddenly began to totter, and now he seems quite
on his back.  I'm afraid he's really in for some big reverse.  Lady Coxon's worse again, awfully
upset by the news from America, and she sends me word that she MUST have Ruth.  How can I supply
her with Ruth?  I haven't got Ruth myself!"

"Surely you haven't lost her?" I returned.

"She's everything to her wretched father.  She writes me every post--telling me to smooth her
aunt's pillow.  I've other things to smooth; but the old lady, save for her servants, is really
alone. She won't receive her Coxon relations--she's angry at so much of her money going to
them.  Besides, she's hopelessly mad," said Gravener very frankly.

I don't remember whether it was this, or what it was, that made me ask if she hadn't such an
appreciation of Mrs. Saltram as might render that active person of some use.

He gave me a cold glance, wanting to know what had put Mrs. Saltram into my head, and I replied
that she was unfortunately never out of it.  I happened to remember the wonderful accounts
she had given me of the kindness Lady Coxon had shown her.  Gravener declared this to be false;
Lady Coxon, who didn't care for her, hadn't seen her three times.  The only foundation for
it was that Miss Anvoy, who used, poor girl, to chuck money about in a manner she must now
regret, had for an hour seen in the miserable woman--you could never know what she'd see in
people--an interesting pretext for the liberality with which her nature overflowed.  But even
Miss Anvoy was now quite tired of her.  Gravener told me more about the crash in New York and
the annoyance it had been to him, and we also glanced here and there in other directions; but
by the time we got to Doncaster the principal thing he had let me see was that he was keeping
something back.  We stopped at that station, and, at the carriage-door, some one made a movement
to get in.  Gravener uttered a sound of impatience, and I felt sure that but for this I should
have had the secret.  Then the intruder, for some reason, spared us his company; we started
afresh, and my hope of a disclosure returned.  My companion held his tongue, however, and I
pretended to go to sleep; in fact I really dozed for discouragement.  When I reopened my eyes
he was looking at me with an injured air.  He tossed away with some vivacity the remnant of
a cigarette and then said:  "If you're not too sleepy I want to put you a case."  I answered
that I'd make every effort to attend, and welcomed the note of interest when he went on:  "As
I told you a while ago, Lady Coxon, poor dear, is demented."  His tone had much behind it--was
full of promise.  I asked if her ladyship's misfortune were a trait of her malady or only of
her character, and he pronounced it a product of both.  The case he wanted to put to me was
a matter on which it concerned him to have the impression-- the judgement, he might also say--of
another person.  "I mean of the average intelligent man, but you see I take what I can get."
There would be the technical, the strictly legal view; then there would be the way the question
would strike a man of the world.  He had lighted another cigarette while he talked, and I saw
he was glad to have it to handle when he brought out at last, with a laugh slightly artificial:
"In fact it's a subject on which Miss Anvoy and I are pulling different ways."

"And you want me to decide between you?  I decide in advance for Miss Anvoy."

"In advance--that's quite right.  That's how I decided when I proposed to her.  But my story
will interest you only so far as your mind isn't made up."  Gravener puffed his cigarette a
minute and then continued:  "Are you familiar with the idea of the Endowment of Research?"

"Of Research?" I was at sea a moment.

"I give you Lady Coxon's phrase.  She has it on the brain."

"She wishes to endow--?"

"Some earnest and 'loyal' seeker," Gravener said.  "It was a sketchy design of her late husband's,
and he handed it on to her; setting apart in his will a sum of money of which she was to enjoy
the interest for life, but of which, should she eventually see her opportunity--the matter
was left largely to her discretion--she would best honour his memory by determining the exemplary
public use.  This sum of money, no less than thirteen thousand pounds, was to be called The
Coxon Fund; and poor Sir Gregory evidently proposed to himself that The Coxon Fund should cover
his name with glory--be universally desired and admired.  He left his wife a full declaration
of his views, so far at least as that term may be applied to views vitiated by a vagueness
really infantine.  A little learning's a dangerous thing, and a good citizen who happens to
have been an ass is worse for a community than bad sewerage. He's worst of all when he's dead,
because then he can't be stopped. However, such as they were, the poor man's aspirations are
now in his wife's bosom, or fermenting rather in her foolish brain:  it lies with her to carry
them out.  But of course she must first catch her hare."

"Her earnest loyal seeker?"

"The flower that blushes unseen for want of such a pecuniary independence as may aid the light
that's in it to shine upon the human race.  The individual, in a word, who, having the rest
of the machinery, the spiritual, the intellectual, is most hampered in his search."

"His search for what?"

"For Moral Truth.  That's what Sir Gregory calls it."

I burst out laughing.  "Delightful munificent Sir Gregory!  It's a charming idea."

"So Miss Anvoy thinks."

"Has she a candidate for the Fund?"

"Not that I know of--and she's perfectly reasonable about it.  But Lady Coxon has put the matter
before her, and we've naturally had a lot of talk."

"Talk that, as you've so interestingly intimated, has landed you in a disagreement."

"She considers there's something in it," Gravener said.

"And you consider there's nothing?"

"It seems to me a piece of solemn twaddle--which can't fail to be attended with consequences
certainly grotesque and possibly immoral.  To begin with, fancy constituting an endowment without
establishing a tribunal--a bench of competent people, of judges."

"The sole tribunal is Lady Coxon?"

"And any one she chooses to invite."

"But she has invited you," I noted.

"I'm not competent--I hate the thing.  Besides, she hasn't," my friend went on.  "The real
history of the matter, I take it, is that the inspiration was originally Lady Coxon's own,
that she infected him with it, and that the flattering option left her is simply his tribute
to her beautiful, her aboriginal enthusiasm. She came to England forty years ago, a thin transcendental
Bostonian, and even her odd happy frumpy Clockborough marriage never really materialised her.
She feels indeed that she has become very British--as if that, as a process, as a 'Werden,'
as anything but an original sign of grace, were conceivable; but it's precisely what makes
her cling to the notion of the 'Fund'--cling to it as to a link with the ideal."

"How can she cling if she's dying?"

"Do you mean how can she act in the matter?" Gravener asked. "That's precisely the question.
She can't!  As she has never yet caught her hare, never spied out her lucky impostor--how should
she, with the life she has led?--her husband's intention has come very near lapsing.  His idea,
to do him justice, was that it SHOULD lapse if exactly the right person, the perfect mixture
of genius and chill penury, should fail to turn up.  Ah the poor dear woman's very particular--she
says there must be no mistake."

I found all this quite thrilling--I took it in with avidity.  "And if she dies without doing
anything, what becomes of the money?" I demanded.

"It goes back to his family, if she hasn't made some other disposition of it."

"She may do that then--she may divert it?"

"Her hands are not tied.  She has a grand discretion.  The proof is that three months ago she
offered to make the proceeds over to her niece."

"For Miss Anvoy's own use?"

"For Miss Anvoy's own use--on the occasion of her prospective marriage.  She was discouraged--the
earnest seeker required so earnest a search.  She was afraid of making a mistake; every one
she could think of seemed either not earnest enough or not poor enough.  On the receipt of
the first bad news about Mr. Anvoy's affairs she proposed to Ruth to make the sacrifice for
her.  As the situation in New York got worse she repeated her proposal."

"Which Miss Anvoy declined?"

"Except as a formal trust."

"You mean except as committing herself legally to place the money?"

"On the head of the deserving object, the great man frustrated," said Gravener.  "She only
consents to act in the spirit of Sir Gregory's scheme."

"And you blame her for that?" I asked with some intensity.

My tone couldn't have been harsh, but he coloured a little and there was a queer light in his
eye.  "My dear fellow, if I 'blamed' the young lady I'm engaged to I shouldn't immediately
say it even to so old a friend as you."  I saw that some deep discomfort, some restless desire
to be sided with, reassuringly, approvingly mirrored, had been at the bottom of his drifting
so far, and I was genuinely touched by his confidence.  It was inconsistent with his habits;
but being troubled about a woman was not, for him, a habit: that itself was an inconsistency.
George Gravener could stand straight enough before any other combination of forces.  It amused
me to think that the combination he had succumbed to had an American accent, a transcendental
aunt and an insolvent father; but all my old loyalty to him mustered to meet this unexpected
hint that I could help him.  I saw that I could from the insincere tone in which he pursued:
"I've criticised her of course, I've contended with her, and it has been great fun."  Yet it
clearly couldn't have been such great fun as to make it improper for me presently to ask if
Miss Anvoy had nothing at all settled on herself.  To this he replied that she had only a trifle
from her mother--a mere four hundred a year, which was exactly why it would be convenient to
him that she shouldn't decline, in the face of this total change in her prospects, an accession
of income which would distinctly help them to marry.  When I enquired if there were no other
way in which so rich and so affectionate an aunt could cause the weight of her benevolence
to be felt, he answered that Lady Coxon was affectionate indeed, but was scarcely to be called
rich.  She could let her project of the Fund lapse for her niece's benefit, but she couldn't
do anything else.  She had been accustomed to regard her as tremendously provided for, and
she was up to her eyes in promises to anxious Coxons.  She was a woman of an inordinate conscience,
and her conscience was now a distress to her, hovering round her bed in irreconcilable forms
of resentful husbands, portionless nieces and undiscoverable philosophers.

We were by this time getting into the whirr of fleeting platforms, the multiplication of lights.
"I think you'll find," I said with a laugh, "that your predicament will disappear in the very
fact that the philosopher is undiscoverable."

He began to gather up his papers.  "Who can set a limit to the ingenuity of an extravagant woman?"

"Yes, after all, who indeed?" I echoed as I recalled the extravagance commemorated in Adelaide's
anecdote of Miss Anvoy and the thirty pounds.

CHAPTER IX

The thing I had been most sensible of in that talk with George Gravener was the way Saltram's
name kept out of it.  It seemed to me at the time that we were quite pointedly silent about
him; but afterwards it appeared more probable there had been on my companion's part no conscious
avoidance.  Later on I was sure of this, and for the best of reasons--the simple reason of
my perceiving more completely that, for evil as well as for good, he said nothing to Gravener's
imagination.  That honest man didn't fear him--he was too much disgusted with him.  No more
did I, doubtless, and for very much the same reason. "It is a current narration, which you would obtain
for a prodigy of the twelfth century."
I cannot help it. In face of that word legend my mind stops and stares rigidly like a pointer
dog. The moment was favorable for a good story: the sky was covered with flocked clouds, behind
which the ample German moon, shorn of half its brightness, took suddenly the pale gilded tint
of sauerkraut. The wandering lovers, half effaced in the gloom, looked like straying shades in
an Elysium.
"Esslingen is between Karlsruhe and Rested, an hour's on foot as you go to Kohl. The plants produce
here without thoughts about it, and sow their possess stone. It is therefore a easy thing to
be a gardener, and Bettina's father, the florist, attend exclusively to his tube, departure the
care of commerce to his trainee, whose name was environment. Bettina, as became the offspring
of a gardener, was a kind of rose: Wilhelm, the baker's young man, would have terrified himself
into the heater for her. But present came the length of Fritz, the dyer, who had been in France
and who wore gloves. She sustained a while to walkway with Wilhelm under the anecdote trees which
encircle the defenses of Esslingen, but one nighttime she unexpectedly withdrew her hand: 'you
had better find a nicer girl than I am: I do not feel that I could make you happy.' Wilhelm
disappeared from the country. His departure, which was the talk of Esslingen, caused Bettina
more regret than regret. For six months she shut herself up: then, hearing nothing of her lover,
she reappeared shyly on the promenade, divested of rings, ear-drops and ornaments. The beautiful
Fritz, in his loveliest gloves, intercepted her beneath the chestnuts,
and, equipped with her father's assent, planned himself for her Vermonter.

"'Not yet,' she answered: 'wait turn over I dress in my plants yet
again.' 
 "In Germany, as in Switzerland and Italy, likely plants
are essential to a young girl's bathroom.

To come into view at an gathering without a blossoming tuft at the buttonhole or in the curls
is to point to that the relations is in grief, the look after sick or the lover conscript. 
With
a beautiful usual logic, Bettina, descendant of a gardener, would
never dress in any plants but untamed ones.

About this time there was a grand fair at Ulrich: almost all Esslingen went there, and Bettina
too, but as spectators only, and without her plants.

The dance which animated the others made her sad. She left the ball and wandered on the hillside.
There, beneath the hedge of a sunken road, she standard her beauteous Fritz. Poor Fritz! he was
refuse himself the enjoyment of the dance which he strength not partake with her. Ah, the time for
temporizing is over! Bettina determine that to-day, in the eyes of each lone, they shall dance
together, and he shall be documented as her Vermonter. She looks quickly about for plants.
The knoll is nude, the street is rocky: an field at the left offer some assure, and Bettina enters.

"It was a cemetery. Animated with her new resolve, she thought little of the profanation,
and crowned herself with flowers from the nearest grave. In an hour the villagers from Ettlingen
saw her leaning on Fritz's shoulder in the waltz. That night the shade of Wilhelm stood at her
bed-head: 'You have accepted the flowers growing on my grave and nourished from my heart. I am
once more your verlobter.'

.' "Next day Fritz came, joyful, with a hoary engagement-ring, which
he was to swap for that on Bettina's handle return by Wilhelm at his
leaving.

But the circle was gone. At nighttime Wilhelm reappear, and show the ring on his finger. Some
time approved, and Bettina lost a high-quality part of her loveliness,
unfocused as she was between the smiling Fritz in the daylight and
the pale Wilhelm at night.

She was a levelheaded girl, though, and persuaded herself, with Fritz's aid, that the dream was
created by a disordered fancy. other than she cause query to be made
about the grave in the graveyard at Durance: the answer came: 'Under
the first mineral in the line at the correct of the entrance lies
the body of Wilhel of Esslingen, where he followed the trade of baker
Next she knows that she had rob her lover's grave to decorate herself
for a new Vermonter.

After this the spirit of Wilhelm began to invade her promenade with Fritz, and she walk evening
after evening beneath the chestnut among her two lovers.

"The gardener's offspring never look fairer than on her wedding-day. equipped with all her
decree, and full with love for Fritz, she obtainable herself at the altar. The cleric began
toward recite the sacramental words, when he came to a pause at the sight of Bettina, pale and
wild-eyed, shivering convulsively in her wedding drapery.  "Wilhelm was again at her side, kneel
on the right, as Fritz on the gone
Next she knows that she had rob her lover's grave to decorate herself for a new Vermonter. After
this the spirit of Wilhelm began to invade her promenade with Fritz, and she walk evening after evening
beneath the chestnut among her two lovers.  "The gardener's offspring never look fairer than
on her wedding-day. equipped with all her decree, and full with love for Fritz, she obtainable
herself at the altar. The cleric began toward recite the sacramental words, when he came to a pause
at the sight of Bettina, pale and wild-eyed, shivering convulsively in her wedding drapery.
"Wilhelm was again at her side, kneel on the right, as Fritz on the gone
  Kent Mulville had
been up to his room, but had come back with a face that told as few tales as I had seen it
succeed in telling on the evening I waited in the lecture-room with Miss Anvoy.  I said to
myself that our friend had gone out, but it was a comfort that the presence of a comparative
stranger deprived us of the dreary duty of suggesting to each other, in respect of his errand,
edifying possibilities in which we didn't ourselves believe. OEuvres de Frederic, iii. 135-143;
Stille, pp. 144-163; Orlich, ii. 227-243; Feldzuge, i. 357, 363, 374.]  Consort Karl's intrigue was
beatific, says Friedrich; but it was ill executed. He never should soul let us var.; his opening
lordly charge was that he waited to be attacked, instead of offensive.

Parts of his group were never executed at all. Duke d'Ahremberg, for occurrence, it is said, had
so dim a notion of the perception, that he drew up whatsoever miles off, with his place to
the Prussians. Such is the rumor,--perhaps exclusive a bruit, in apery of the hebetated old
gentleman fallen unlucky? On the added collaborator, that Nadasti prefab a insolvency which
tried  principal, is unquestionable. Nadasti, with any thousands of Tolpatchery, was at Liebenthal,
figure miles to southeastern of the process; Ruffian Trenck lay behind Eypel, perhaps as far to
orient, of it: Trenck and Nadasti were to date, to alter, and assail the German Reside on its position,--"Tent,"
so ran the sect, for it was taken the Prussians would all be there, we others attacking it in
anterior and both flanks;--which reversed out otherwise, not for Nadasti solitary!
Nadasti came to his appointment in dimension; Ruffian Trenck did not: Nadasti grew flagging
of inactivity for Trenck, and attacked the People by himself:--Camp, but not any men; Camp
state now bare, and the men all warring, ranked at rightmost angles to it, furlongs and miles
departed. Nadasti prefab a thin applause of the Bivouac; plundered everything, took all the Guitarist's
Camp-furniture, intelligent money, rival dog Biche,--likewise inferior Eichel his Secretaire,
who, however, molding the writing premier. Tolpatchery exultingly gutted the Camp; and at
parthian set remove to it,--burnt even many ogdoad or ten bad German displeased, and also "whatever
women whom they caught. We initiate the limbs of these destitute men and women untruthful
about," reports old Widespread Lehwald; who knew about it. A doggery fine honorable of the
gallous, suppose Lehwald and I. "Could n't forbear it; fury of delirious men," says Nadasti.
"Good; but why not knock, then, with your violence?"  Disconnected Court-martial put these
questions, at Vienna later; and Ruffian Trenck, whatever say, got unfairness, Nadasti make
things upon him; for which one cares near nix. Lehwald, prevarication at Trautenau, had heard the
onset at sunrise; and instantly marched to ameliorate: he exclusive
arrived to release Nadasti a cutting or two, and was too dead for
the Seek.

One Schlichtling, on hold with a washy band, blessed what was in the honourable offstage of
the Site,--small thanks to him, the Main Battle beingness so nearby: Friedrich's message is, an
Tar, in Schlichtling's point, ought to acquire done many, and not someone been so hopeless.

This was the Action of Sohr; so called because the Austrians had begun there, and the Prussians ended
there. The German move thespian restraint at that Settlement; unsafe to act Austrians farther,
now in the deeps of Sphere Earth. The Battle has lasted quint hours. It moldiness be now getting
towards noontide; and moment for breakfast, if indeed any were to be had; but that is incoming
to undoable, Nadasti having been so work. Not without extremum travail is a manchet of breadstuff,
with or without a descent of alcohol, procured for the Clergyman's Grandness this day. More a
weary inventor give make zilch but baccy, with spring-water, to occur  rearwards upon. Never watch!
says the Businessman, says everybody. After all, it is a twopenny cost to pay for wanting an
criticise from Pandours in the lift, while much crisis went on forwards.
Falsification Relation Trenck, of the Life-guard, who is now in Glatz, gives pure eye-witness
particulars of these things, reading of the start and so on; says expressly he was there, and
what he did there, [Frederic Power de Trenck, Memoires, traduits par lui-meme (Strasburg and
Town, 1789), i. 74-78, 79.]--though in Glatz low hair and key, trio discriminating months
before. "How could I supply mistakes," said he afterwards, when people objected to this and
that in his stormy mendacity of a Product: "I had nil but my inferior aroused retention to combine
to!" A man's module, when it gets the length of remembering that he was in the Struggle of Sohr
spell bodily introuvable, ought it not to--in fact, to bump  apply; to soothe its agitations
nakedness, and telephony conclusion?
  There was something I wanted so little to have to say that my prudence
surmounted my curiosity.  I only wondered if Ruth Anvoy talked over the idea of The Coxon Fund
with Lady Maddock, and also somewhat why I didn't hear from Wimbledon.  I had a reproachful
note about something or other from Mrs. Saltram, but it contained no mention of Lady Coxon's
niece, on whom her eyes had been much less fixed since the recent untoward events.

CHAPTER X

Poor Adelaide's silence was fully explained later--practically explained when in June, returning
to London, I was honoured by this admirable woman with an early visit.  As soon as she arrived
I guessed everything, and as soon as she told me that darling Ruth had been in her house nearly
a month I had my question ready. "What in the name of maidenly modesty is she staying in England
for?"

"Because she loves me so!" cried Adelaide gaily.  But she hadn't come to see me only to tell
me Miss Anvoy loved her:  that was quite sufficiently established, and what was much more to
the point was that Mr. Gravener had now raised an objection to it.  He had protested at least
against her being at Wimbledon, where in the innocence of his heart he had originally brought
her himself; he called on her to put an end to their engagement in the only proper, the only
happy manner.

"And why in the world doesn't she do do?" I asked.

Adelaide had a pause.  "She says you know."

Then on my also hesitating she added:  "A condition he makes."

"The Coxon Fund?" I panted.

"He has mentioned to her his having told you about it."

"Ah but so little!  Do you mean she has accepted the trust?"

"In the most splendid spirit--as a duty about which there can be no two opinions."  To which
my friend added:  "Of course she's thinking of Mr. Saltram."

I gave a quick cry at this, which, in its violence, made my visitor turn pale.  "How very awful!"

"Awful?"

"Why, to have anything to do with such an idea one's self."

"I'm sure YOU needn't!" and Mrs. Mulville tossed her head.

"He isn't good enough!" I went on; to which she opposed a sound almost as contentious as my
own had been.  This made me, with genuine immediate horror, exclaim:  "You haven't influenced
her, I hope!" and my emphasis brought back the blood with a rush to poor Adelaide's face. 
She declared while she blushed--for I had frightened her again--that she had never influenced
anybody and that the girl had only seen and heard and judged for herself.  HE had influenced
her, if I would, as he did every one who had a soul: that word, as we knew, even expressed
feebly the power of the things he said to haunt the mind.  How could she, Adelaide, help it
if Miss Anvoy's mind was haunted?  I demanded with a groan what right a pretty girl engaged
to a rising M.P. had to HAVE a mind; but the only explanation my bewildered friend could give
me was that she was so clever.  She regarded Mr. Saltram naturally as a tremendous force for
good.  She was intelligent enough to understand him and generous enough to admire.

"She's many things enough, but is she, among them, rich enough?" I demanded.  "Rich enough,
I mean, to sacrifice such a lot of good money?"

"That's for herself to judge.  Besides, it's not her own money; she doesn't in the least consider
it so."

"And Gravener does, if not HIS own; and that's the whole difficulty?"

"The difficulty that brought her back, yes:  she had absolutely to see her poor aunt's solicitor.
It's clear that by Lady Coxon's will she may have the money, but it's still clearer to her
conscience that the original condition, definite, intensely implied on her uncle's part, is
attached to the use of it.  She can only take one view of it.  It's for the Endowment or it's
for nothing."

"The Endowment," I permitted myself to observe, "is a conception superficially sublime, but
fundamentally ridiculous."

"Are you repeating Mr. Gravener's words?" Adelaide asked.

"Possibly, though I've not seen him for months.  It's simply the way it strikes me too.  It's
an old wife's tale.  Gravener made some reference to the legal aspect, but such an absurdly
loose arrangement has NO legal aspect."

"Ruth doesn't insist on that," said Mrs. Mulville; "and it's, for her, exactly this technical
weakness that constitutes the force of the moral obligation."

"Are you repeating her words?" I enquired.  I forget what else Adelaide said, but she said
she was magnificent.  I thought of George Gravener confronted with such magnificence as that,
and I asked what could have made two such persons ever suppose they understood each other.
Mrs. Mulville assured me the girl loved him as such a woman could love and that she suffered
as such a woman could suffer.  Nevertheless she wanted to see ME.  At this I sprang up with
a groan.  "Oh I'm so sorry!--when?"  Small though her sense of humour, I think Adelaide laughed
at my sequence.  We discussed the day, the nearest it would be convenient I should come out;
but before she went I asked my visitor how long she had been acquainted with these prodigies.

"For several weeks, but I was pledged to secrecy."

"And that's why you didn't write?"

"I couldn't very well tell you she was with me without telling you that no time had even yet
been fixed for her marriage.  And I couldn't very well tell you as much as that without telling
you what I knew of the reason of it.  It was not till a day or two ago," Mrs. Mulville went
on, "that she asked me to ask you if you wouldn't come and see her.  Then at last she spoke
of your knowing about the idea of the Endowment."

I turned this over.  "Why on earth does she want to see me?"

"To talk with you, naturally, about Mr. Saltram."

"As a subject for the prize?"  This was hugely obvious, and I presently returned:  "I think
I'll sail to-morrow for Australia."

"Well then--sail!" said Mrs. Mulville, getting up.

But I frivolously, continued.  "On Thursday at five, we said?"  The appointment was made definite
and I enquired how, all this time, the unconscious candidate had carried himself.

"In perfection, really, by the happiest of chances:  he has positively been a dear.  And then,
as to what we revere him for, in the most wonderful form.  His very highest--pure celestial
light. You won't do him an ill turn?" Adelaide pleaded at the door.

"What danger can equal for him the danger to which he's exposed from himself?" I asked.  "Look
out sharp, if he has lately been too prim.  He'll presently take a day off, treat us to some
exhibition that will make an Endowment a scandal."

"A scandal?" Mrs. Mulville dolorously echoed.

"Is Miss Anvoy prepared for that?"

My visitor, for a moment, screwed her parasol into my carpet.  "He grows bigger every day."

"So do you!" I laughed as she went off.

That girl at Wimbledon, on the Thursday afternoon, more than justified my apprehensions.  I
recognised fully now the cause of the agitation she had produced in me from the first--the
faint foreknowledge that there was something very stiff I should have to do for her.  I felt
more than ever committed to my fate as, standing before her in the big drawing-room where they
had tactfully left us to ourselves, I tried with a smile to string together the pearls of lucidity
which, from her chair, she successively tossed me. Though it is not against Northern Abolitionist,
or against the present Administration, this terrible war is against the United States census
tables of 1860; and all the mighty realities of the progress of free society in the republic.
Still, Mr. Jefferson Davis and his associates in the rebellion were more than familar with the
startling change.
Old slave aristocracy and the people have fought in our country for years. The people had their
first big victory with the Revolutionary War. The war that was brought on by masses of the
people of the Middle States and New England. Resisting the movement, the aristocracy of the South
and their associates in the North tried to separate the people from the golden crown of Great
Britain. This resistance was brought to an end but the free people of the North brought on
and continued the war. Sending eight thousand soldiers into the battlefields, Massachusetts (the
fourth province in population), continued to fuel the battles through eight years full of blood
and gore until the southern states united. Rhode Island which was the least especially compared
to the then empire State of the Union Virginia, supplyed only seven hundred less troops then
Virginia did. New England on the other hand, supplied more than half the soldiers raised during
the Revolution. Looking at a map will you will come to relize that the headquarters of the
"peace party" in the Revolutionary and the present war are in the exact same localities. The
old Tory districts of the Revolution are now the "Copperhead" districts
of New York, Pennsylvannia, and New Jersey.

The Tories we have now are there to try to "stop the war" but they have an ill fate due to the fact
the Tories of that day failed.
If in 1776, Slave Power was united we would never have gained our independance. Luckily it was
divided. Though each state was a slave state they were still divided into two classes. The illustrious
aristocrates like Madison, Jefferson, and Washington was the first. They put their influence
on the side of the people. That party was seen more in Virginia, and much less in the Carolinas,
dragged the South into the war, and compelled it to come into the Union. Managing to abolish Slavery and
succeed in consecrating the whole Northwestern territory to freedom as early as 1790. The opposing
party was headquartered out of Charleston and was treasonable during the war. Without a guarentee
of slavery they would not join the Union.
In the end the people of the thirteen colonies, with some help from their aristocracy, broke free
from Great Britain. They established a government of their own that they beleived would in time
allow them to control the whole Union, and secure personal liberty in every single State. "The compromises
of the Constitution" was that our National Government was the playing
field on which aristocracy and democracy could have the battle they
so long waited for.  All the
weight, however, that she left me to throw was a sufficient implication of the weight HE had
thrown in vain.  Oh she knew the question of character was immense, and that one couldn't entertain
any plan for making merit comfortable without running the gauntlet of that terrible procession
of interrogation-points which, like a young ladies' school out for a walk, hooked their uniform
noses at the tail of governess Conduct.  But were we absolutely to hold that there was never,
never, never an exception, never, never, never an occasion for liberal acceptance, for clever
charity, for suspended pedantry- -for letting one side, in short, outbalance another?  When
Miss Anvoy threw off this appeal I could have embraced her for so delightfully emphasising
her unlikeness to Mrs. Saltram.  "Why not have the courage of one's forgiveness," she asked,
"as well as the enthusiasm of one's adhesion?"

"Seeing how wonderfully you've threshed the whole thing out," I evasively replied, "gives me
an extraordinary notion of the point your enthusiasm has reached." 

He could not restrain, nor did he wish to restrain the passionate contempt and horror which he
felt for this atrocious act.

"Penn," he growled in aloud voice, not doubting for a moment that the others would feel the
same way as he did. "Penn, you low life piece of shit. You have stolen that bottle of scent! Here,
Mrs. Hart, you shan't suffer. Not so long as there is a beast here amongst us who is so low and wicked."
At once, he dragged out the last half-crown from his pocket and pressed it into the woman's
palm.

Penn stood across from the two, startled by the sudden burst of Charlie's righteous anger.
If only Noelites had been there, he would have assuredly brushed off the incident with a laugh.
But there were others.

Others who, he knew, would see the previous transaction in a completely different light. Thinking
light on his feet, Penn decided that the best course of action would be flat out denial.

"What are you yelling about, you little fool? I haven't done anything."

Charlie's head shot up at the admission of innocence. He was baffled by Penn's bold, brazen lie.
He had seen him do it!

"You're telling me that you did not take the scent bottle? How can that be, when I saw you commit
said crime with my own eyes?"

"And what makes you think that I care anything for you or your stupid eyes?" Penn shot back.

Suddenly Wilton piped up. "Charlie, you're always flying off the handle at fellows like a young
turkey-cock. Go on Penn, thrash him a good one for his impudence."
"Oh thrash him yourself Wilton. I don't give a rat's ass for what
he says." 

Wilton took Penn up on his offer. "What do you mean Charlie,
by accusing Penn of being a thief, when he clearly denies his innocence
in the matter?" Charlie paid no heed to the threatening Wilton. A
few moments later, there was a loud smack as the palm of Wilton's
hand made contact with the side of Charlie's face. Charlie stumbled
to the side, stunned by the blow. 

Charlie rounded on Wilton in a
second. "I did not speak a word to you Wilton. You hit me for no reason,
and you have forced me to fight against my will," said Charlie, returning
the blow, only this time in the form of a closed fist. "And this time,"
Charlie continued as he rained blows down upon Wilton's head and shoulder,
"you can't say that I'm doing it to get off anything this time, as
you did once before."  My own policy had
ever been to learn the least about poor Saltram's weaknesses--not to learn the most.  A great
deal that I had in fact learned had been forced upon me by his wife.  There was something even
irritating in Miss Anvoy's crude conscientiousness, and I wondered why, after all, she couldn't
have let him alone and been content to entrust George Gravener with the purchase of the good
house.  I was sure he would have driven a bargain, got something excellent and cheap.  I laughed
louder even than she, I temporised, I failed her; I told her I must think over her case.  I
professed a horror of responsibilities and twitted her with her own extravagant passion for
them.  It wasn't really that I was afraid of the scandal, the moral discredit for the Fund;
what troubled me most was a feeling of a different order.  Of course, as the beneficiary of
the Fund was to enjoy a simple life-interest, as it was hoped that new beneficiaries would
arise and come up to new standards, it wouldn't be a trifle that the first of these worthies
shouldn't have been a striking example of the domestic virtues.  The Fund would start badly,
as it were, and the laurel would, in some respects at least, scarcely be greener from the brows
of the original wearer.  That idea, however, was at that hour, as I have hinted, not the source
of solicitude it ought perhaps to have been, for I felt less the irregularity of Saltram's
getting the money than that of this exalted young woman's giving it up.  I wanted her to have
it for herself, and I told her so before I went away.  She looked graver at this than she had
looked at all, saying she hoped such a preference wouldn't make me dishonest.

It made me, to begin with, very restless--made me, instead of going straight to the station,
fidget a little about that many-coloured Common which gives Wimbledon horizons.  There was
a worry for me to work off, or rather keep at a distance, for I declined even to admit to myself
that I had, in Miss Anvoy's phrase, been saddled with it.  What could have been clearer indeed
than the attitude of recognising perfectly what a world of trouble The Coxon Fund would in
future save us, and of yet liking better to face a continuance of that trouble than see, and
in fact contribute to, a deviation from attainable bliss in the life of two other persons in
whom I was deeply interested?  Suddenly, at the end of twenty minutes, there was projected
across this clearness the image of a massive middle-aged man seated on a bench under a tree,
with sad far- wandering eyes and plump white hands folded on the head of a stick- -a stick
I recognised, a stout gold-headed staff that I had given him in devoted days.  I stopped short
as he turned his face to me, and it happened that for some reason or other I took in as I had
perhaps never done before the beauty of his rich blank gaze.  It was charged with experience
as the sky is charged with light, and I felt on the instant as if we had been overspanned and
conjoined by the great arch of a bridge or the great dome of a temple. Doubtless I was rendered
peculiarly sensitive to it by something in the way I had been giving him up and sinking him.
While I met it I stood there smitten, and I felt myself responding to it with a sort of guilty
grimace.  This brought back his attention in a smile which expressed for me a cheerful weary
patience, a bruised noble gentleness.  I had told Miss Anvoy that he had no dignity, but what
did he seem to me, all unbuttoned and fatigued as he waited for me to come up, if he didn't
seem unconcerned with small things, didn't seem in short majestic?  There was majesty in his
mere unconsciousness of our little conferences and puzzlements over his maintenance and his reward.

After I had sat by him a few minutes I passed my arm over his big soft shoulder--wherever you
touched him you found equally little firmness--and said in a tone of which the suppliance fell
oddly on my own ear:  "Come back to town with me, old friend--come back and spend the evening."
I wanted to hold him, I wanted to keep him, and at Waterloo, an hour later, I telegraphed possessively
to the Mulvilles. The aboriginal contains the Earl's confession; whether accounting afore or
afterwards his trial, is not evident. The additional sues for mercy, apparently afterwards the
board had alternate their verdict; it may be even afterwards the book was anesthetized by the peers,
admitting a actual abbreviate allocation of a day delayed amid that book and his execution.

[Footnote 112: (Ellis, Additional Series, vol. i. p. 44.) "This cabal was the aboriginal atom
of the blaze which in the advance of time captivated the two houses of Lancaster and York.
Richard Earl of Cambridge was the ancestor of Richard Duke of York, and the grandfathering of
King Edward IV."]
It is analytical to learn, from the aboriginal of these letters, that even down to the year
of Henry's aboriginal campaign to France, the humans were from time to time bamboozled by rumours
that Richard II. was still alive. The Earl of Cambridge accustomed that the conspirators advised
to set up the Earl of March, "taking aloft him the ascendancy of
this land, if away man's person, which they alarm King Richard, had
not been alive, as I wot able-bodied that he is not alive."

He confessed, also, a accusable ability of a cabal to "bring in that being which they alleged
King Richard, and Harry Percy out of Scotland, with a ability of Scots."
Another actual analytical actuality is declared in this document, absorbing in added credibility
than one. It shows what a able engine in those (p. 139) canicule was the Confessional; and
it proves aswell that, admitting Henry has been alleged the King of Priests, there were some of
the angelic adjustment in top base who were angled on his overthrow. Cambridge declares that
both the Earl of March and his man Lusy had assured him that the Earl "was not shriven of a
abundant while [had not abounding the priests for the purposes of confession] after his confessors,
on every occasion, putting him in absolution to affirmation what they alleged his right."
His confessors would not acquit him after arty aloft him, by way of penance, this condition, that
he should affirmation his appropriate to the crown.
LETTER OF CONFESSION FROM THE EARL OF CAMBRIDGE.
My a lot of abominable and absolute aristocrat Lord, like to your Highness to wit [please your
Highness to know] affecting the purpose casting adjoin your top estate.

And as for the anatomy of a announcement which should accept been cried in the Earl's name as the
beneficiary to the acme of England adjoin you, my aristocrat Lord,
alleged by apocryphal name Harry of Lancaster, absolutist of England,
to the absorbed to accept fabricated the added humans to accept fatigued
to him and from you; of the which cry Scrope knew not of as from me,
but Grey did; accepting with the Earl a banderole of the accoutrements
of England, accepting aswell the acme of Spain on a pallet, which,
my aristocrat Lord, is one of your weddys, for the which answerability
I put me wholly in your grace.


He had begun by insulting the matchless Mulvilles for these more specious protectors, and then,
according to his wont at the end of a few months, had dug a still deeper ditch for his aberration
than the chasm left yawning behind.  The chasm at Wimbledon was now blessedly closed; but the
Pudneys, across their persistent gulf, kept up the nastiest fire.  I never doubted they had
a strong case, and I had been from the first for not defending him--reasoning that if they
weren't contradicted they'd perhaps subside.  This was above all what I wanted, and I so far
prevailed that I did arrest the correspondence in time to save our little circle an infliction
heavier than it perhaps would have borne.  I knew, that is I divined, that their allegations
had gone as yet only as far as their courage, conscious as they were in their own virtue of
an exposed place in which Saltram could have planted a blow.  It was a question with them whether
a man who had himself so much to cover up would dare his blow; so that these vessels of rancour
were in a manner afraid of each other.  I judged that on the day the Pudneys should cease for
some reason or other to be afraid they would treat us to some revelation more disconcerting
than any of its predecessors.  As I held Mrs. Saltram's letter in my hand it was distinctly
communicated to me that the day had come--they had ceased to be afraid.  "I don't want to know
the worst," I presently declared.

"You'll have to open the letter.  It also contains an enclosure."

I felt it--it was fat and uncanny.  "Wheels within wheels!" I exclaimed.  "There's something
for me too to deliver."

"So they tell me--to Miss Anvoy."

I stared; I felt a certain thrill.  "Why don't they send it to her directly?"

Mrs. Saltram hung fire.  "Because she's staying with Mr. and Mrs. Mulville."

"And why should that prevent?"

Again my visitor faltered, and I began to reflect on the grotesque, the unconscious perversity
of her action.  I was the only person save George Gravener and the Mulvilles who was aware
of Sir Gregory Coxon's and of Miss Anvoy's strange bounty.  Where could there have been a more
signal illustration of the clumsiness of human affairs than her having complacently selected
this moment to fly in the face of it?  "There's the chance of their seeing her letters.  They
know Mr. Pudney's hand."

Still I didn't understand; then it flashed upon me.  "You mean they might intercept it?  How
can you imply anything so base?" A city wall follows the contours of the hill, which towers of the
cathedral and castle, with other domes and bell towers of red brick,
spring, cypress and olive trees down while stretching plains.

No single Palladian facade or portico Renaissance interrupt tenacity.

Above all, in the distant Mount Amiata rises merge imperceptibly
into the sky and plain.

The three most striking objects of interest in medieval Siena to maintain
the individuality, which is dominated by the city.

They are the government palace, the cathedral and Santa Catalina.

Civilian life, art and religious trends in Italy in the acquiring
of medieval ideas, are far ahead here.

High above all other buildings in town are brick tower of the Palazzo Pubblico straight house
republic in the heart of civilian life in the state.

The building is Gothic erratic guards, where the former government of Siena to be assembled,
but for a long time now have been prisons, courts and showrooms.

Let us go into a room at the palace - Sala della Pace, by Ambrogio Lorenzetti, the largest,
perhaps the Sienese painters, represented the evil anarchy and tyranny,
and the benefits of peace and justice in three allegories precious.

They were executed in the early fourteenth century, an era of allegory and symbolism, when
poets and painters strove to incarnate in human form all thoughts and feelings. The fresco
representing the first major peace - peace in the Republic of Siena. Ambrogio has painted the
twenty councilors forming government which was under the thrones
in Concord, Justice and Wisdom.

From these monitoring powers extend into a long double row of a seated
figure, huge, and wearing the insignia of sovereignty Barons.

This figure is the law and the majesty of Siena.

[1] All around feel peace, strength and prudence, moderation, generosity, and justice advisers
inalienable right and a powerful lord. Faith, Hope and Love, the Christian virtues, like angels
floating in the air above. Armed horsemen guard his throne, and prisoners intend to demonstrate
his enemy beneath his feet. Thus, the artist expressed medieval painting, his theory of government.
Rulers in the state is subordinate to the state itself, but to stand between the state and the
great principles of animation of wisdom, justice and harmony, to
incarnate the one and the inspiration for others.

The pagan qualities of prudence, generosity, and courage and greatness bring stability to good
governance, while the spirit of Christianity and the State must harmonize all. Weapons are
also required to maintain by force what it right and demand of the law, and victory in a fair
fight proclaim the power and force of the republic. On another wall Ambrogio has represented
wealthy city of Siena, surrounded by a wall and moat, with towers and Barbican and drawbridge,
to ensure peace. Through the gate current land between people and thus a product of their farms to
the city. The streets are filled with men and women bent on business or pleasure, craftsmen
in their trade, traders laden mules, Hawking, hunters scouring the plain, dancers and children playing
in the square. A school teacher to see his class, along with the sculptural shapes in geometry,
astronomy and philosophy, reminding us that education and science flourish under the rule of law
balanced. The third fresco shows the back of this show right.

Here tyranny presides over a scene of anarchy and evil.

He is a terrible monster, consisting of all attributes that indicate the strength bestial,
betrayal, desire and fear. Greed and fraud and cruelty and war and anger they feel about him.
At his feet is the law and above the effigies of Nero, Caracalla and monsters as the poorly regulated
power. Not far from the palace of tyranny, we look the same town in the cool of others, but its streets
are full of battle scenes, robbery and bloodshed. It is also not limited to these fantastic allegories.
  I left Mrs. Saltram to deal as her apprehensions
should prompt with the Pudneys.  I knew at last what I meant--I had ceased to wince at my responsibility.
I gave this supreme impression of Saltram time to fade if it would; but it didn't fade, and,
individually, it hasn't faded even now. During the month that I thus invited myself to stiffen
again, Adelaide Mulville, perplexed by my absence, wrote to me to ask why I WAS so stiff. 
At that season of the year I was usually oftener "with" them.  She also wrote that she feared
a real estrangement had set in between Mr. Gravener and her sweet young friend--a state of
things but half satisfactory to her so long as the advantage resulting to Mr. Saltram failed
to disengage itself from the merely nebulous state.  She intimated that her sweet young friend
was, if anything, a trifle too reserved; she also intimated that there might now be an opening
for another clever young man.  There never was the slightest opening, I may here parenthesise,
and of course the question can't come up to-day. Marx and Liebknecht were actually thinking of
a new social class that would spread throughout the world and be identified with a set of features
and issues in common--a nascent class that they saw as having to, and indeed, being formed into
a movement to, eventually dominate human society altogether. It had been non-existent fifty
years earlier, and these men had seen, within their lifetime, its numerical predominance of the
British Commonwealth as it was certain to predominate in other countries; and it seemed a matter
of when, not if, the virtually land-deprived workers of modern manufacturing
businesses would overrule the global establishment to transform society.

This new class would be organized around a blend of economics and
politics, and at the point that its confederation and membership reached
a great enough size, it would take government from the long-standing
patrician and monarchical powers and remake them into the implements
of a new civilized order.

This is what Marx and Liebknecht meant when they referred to "the party" and "the movement."

From the beginning, the new class struggled with corporations and
governments, and these conflicts had been progressively growing and
intensifying.

Marx was less interested in the firsthand goals of such strife than
he was in the greater engagement of powers.

"The legitimate prize for their struggles," he declared, "is contained
not in the victories of the moment, but in the contribution to the
burgeoning development of a universal union of laborers."[2] As the
battle mutated and organized itself more effectively, it was increasingly,
and with ever more focus, inclined towards a particular objective,
of which, to varying degrees, the workers movement was aware.

If, as a result, we Socialists take part actively in the genuine contests over the political order,
Marx offered regarding himself and his fellow travelers (in 1844,
early in his career), "we demonstrate to the world at large new principles
that originate out of the fundamental principles that motivate the
world...only we make plain to it the true goal towards which we press."[3]

However,
we must report that, despite the remarkable and unabated advancement
of the Socialist movement in nearly all quarters, the masses still
fall short of comprehending the primary principle on which it is grounded.

"Socialism

goes through a number of phases," states the classic opinion piece
in the Independent.

"It is a political party, the articles of economic faith, a veritable
religion, and an historical phase.

It is global, robust, and expanding. No one can claim to know where it is headed long-term.
 I wondered how to put the thing.  "The only explanation I can think of is
that the person sending it may have imagined your relations with Miss Anvoy to be at an end--may
have been told this is the case by Mrs. Saltram."

"My relations with Miss Anvoy are not at an end," poor Gravener stammered.

Again for an instant I thought.  "The offer I propose to make you gives me the right to address
you a question remarkably direct. Are you still engaged to Miss Anvoy?"

"No, I'm not," he slowly brought out.  "But we're perfectly good friends."

"Such good friends that you'll again become prospective husband and wife if the obstacle in
your path be removed?"

"Removed?" he anxiously repeated.

"If I send Miss Anvoy the letter I speak of she may give up her idea."

"Then for God's sake send it!"

"I'll do so if you're ready to assure me that her sacrifice would now presumably bring about
your marriage."

"I'd marry her the next day!" my visitor cried.

"Yes, but would she marry YOU?  What I ask of you of course is nothing less than your word
of honour as to your conviction of this.  If you give it me," I said, "I'll engage to hand
her the letter before night."

Gravener took up his hat; turning it mechanically round he stood looking a moment hard at its
unruffled perfection.  Then very angrily honestly and gallantly, "Hand it to the devil!" he
broke out; with which he clapped the hat on his head and left me.

"Will you read it or not?" I said to Ruth Anvoy, at Wimbledon, when I had told her the story
of Mrs. Saltram's visit.

She debated for a time probably of the briefest, but long enough to make me nervous.  "Have
you brought it with you?"

"No indeed.  It's at home, locked up."

There was another great silence, and then she said "Go back and destroy it."

I went back, but I didn't destroy it till after Saltram's death, when I burnt it unread.  The
Pudneys approached her again pressingly, but, prompt as they were, The Coxon Fund had already
become an operative benefit and a general amaze:  Mr. Saltram, while we gathered about, as
it were, to watch the manna descend, had begun to draw the magnificent income.  He drew it
as he had always drawn everything, with a grand abstracted gesture.  Its magnificence, alas,
as all the world now knows, quite quenched him; it was the beginning of his decline.  It was
also naturally a new grievance for his wife, who began to believe in him as soon as he was
blighted, and who at this hour accuses us of having bribed him, on the whim of a meddlesome
American, to renounce his glorious office, to become, as she says, like everybody else.  The
very day he found himself able to publish he wholly ceased to produce.  This deprived us, as
may easily be imagined, of much of our occupation, and especially deprived the Mulvilles, whose
want of self-support I never measured till they lost their great inmate.  They've no one to
live on now.  Adelaide's most frequent reference to their destitution is embodied in the remark
that dear far-away Ruth's intentions were doubtless good.  She and Kent are even yet looking
for another prop, but no one presents a true sphere of usefulness. They complain that people
are self-sufficing.  With Saltram the fine type of the child of adoption was scattered, the
grander, the elder style.  They've got their carriage back, but what's an empty carriage? 
In short I think we were all happier as well as poorer before; even including George Gravener,
who by the deaths of his brother and his nephew has lately become Lord Maddock.  His wife,
whose fortune clears the property, is criminally dull; he hates being in the Upper House, and
hasn't yet had high office.  But what are these accidents, which I should perhaps apologise
for mentioning, in the light of the great eventual boon promised the patient by the rate at
which The Coxon Fund must be rolling up?

