Now my uncle Toby had one evening laid down his pipe upon the table, and was counting over
to himself upon his finger ends (beginning at his thumb) all Mrs. Wadman's perfections one
by one; and happening two or three times together, either by omitting some, or counting others
twice over, to puzzle himself sadly before he could get beyond his middle finger--Prithee,
Trim! said he, taking up his pipe again,--bring me a pen and ink: Trim brought paper also.

Take a full sheet--Trim! said my uncle Toby, making a sign with his pipe at the same time to
take a chair and sit down close by him at the table. The corporal obeyed--placed the paper
directly before him--took a pen, and dipp'd it in the ink.

--She has a thousand virtues, Trim! said my uncle Toby--

Am I to set them down, an' please your honour? quoth the corporal.

--But they must be taken in their ranks, replied my uncle Toby; for of them all, Trim, that
which wins me most, and which is a security for all the rest, is the compassionate turn and
singular humanity of her character--I protest, added my uncle Toby, looking up, as he protested
it, towards the top of the ceiling--That was I her brother, Trim, a thousand fold, she could
not make more constant or more tender enquiries after my sufferings--though now no more.

The corporal made no reply to my uncle Toby's protestation, but by a short cough--he dipp'd
the pen a second time into the inkhorn; and my uncle Toby, pointing with the end of his pipe
as close to the top of the sheet at the left hand corner of it, as he could get it--the corporal
wrote down the word HUMANITY...thus.

Prithee, corporal, said my uncle Toby, as soon as Trim had done it--how often does Mrs. Bridget
enquire after the wound on the cap of thy knee, which thou received'st at the battle of Landen?

She never, an' please your honour, enquires after it at all.

That, corporal, said my uncle Toby, with all the triumph the goodness of his nature would permit--That
shews the difference in the character of the mistress and maid--had the fortune of war allotted
the same mischance to me, Mrs. Wadman would have enquired into every circumstance relating
to it a hundred times--She would have enquired, an' please your honour, ten times as often
about your honour's groin--The pain, Trim, is equally excruciating,--and Compassion has as
much to do with the one as the other--

--God bless your honour! cried the corporal--what has a woman's compassion to do with a wound
upon the cap of a man's knee? had your honour's been shot into ten thousand splinters at the
affair of Landen, Mrs. Wadman would have troubled her head as little about it as Bridget; because,
added the corporal, lowering his voice, and speaking very distinctly, as he assigned his reason--

'The knee is such a distance from the main body--whereas the groin, your honour knows, is upon
the very curtain of the place.'

My uncle Toby gave a long whistle--but in a note which could scarce be heard across the table.

The corporal had advanced too far to retire--in three words he told the rest--

My uncle Toby laid down his pipe as gently upon the fender, as if it had been spun from the
unravellings of a spider's web--

--Let us go to my brother Shandy's, said he.

Chapter 4.XCI.

There will be just time, whilst my uncle Toby and Trim are walking to my father's, to inform
you that Mrs. Wadman had, some moons before this, made a confident of my mother; and that Mrs.
Bridget, who had the burden of her own, as well as her mistress's secret to carry, had got
happily delivered of both to Susannah behind the garden-wall.

As for my mother, she saw nothing at all in it, to make the least bustle about--but Susannah
was sufficient by herself for all the ends and purposes you could possibly have, in exporting
a family secret; for she instantly imparted it by signs to Jonathan--and Jonathan by tokens
to the cook as she was basting a loin of mutton; the cook sold it with some kitchen-fat to
the postillion for a groat, who truck'd it with the dairy maid for something of about the same
value--and though whisper'd in the hay-loft, Fame caught the notes with her brazen trumpet,
and sounded them upon the house-top--In a word, not an old woman in the village or five miles
round, who did not understand the difficulties of my uncle Toby's siege, and what were the
secret articles which had delayed the surrender.--

My father, whose way was to force every event in nature into an hypothesis, by which means
never man crucified Truth at the rate he did--had but just heard of the report as my uncle
Toby set out; and catching fire suddenly at the trespass done his brother by it, was demonstrating
to Yorick, notwithstanding my mother was sitting by--not only, 'That the devil was in women,
and that the whole of the affair was lust;' but that every evil and disorder in the world,
of what kind or nature soever, from the first fall of Adam, down to my uncle Toby's (inclusive),
was owing one way or other to the same unruly appetite.

Yorick was just bringing my father's hypothesis to some temper, when my uncle Toby entering
the room with marks of infinite benevolence and forgiveness in his looks, my father's eloquence
re-kindled against the passion--and as he was not very nice in the choice of his words when
he was wroth--as soon as my uncle Toby was seated by the fire, and had filled his pipe, my
father broke out in this manner.

Chapter 4.XCII.

--That provision should be made for continuing the race of so great, so exalted and godlike
a Being as man--I am far from denying--but philosophy speaks freely of every thing; and therefore
I still think and do maintain it to be a pity, that it should be done by means of a passion
which bends down the faculties, and turns all the wisdom, contemplations, and operations of
the soul backwards--a passion, my dear, continued my father, addressing himself to my mother,
which couples and equals wise men with fools, and makes us come out of our caverns and hiding-places
more like satyrs and four-footed beasts than men.

I know it will be said, continued my father (availing himself of the Prolepsis), that in itself,
and simply taken--like hunger, or thirst, or sleep--'tis an affair neither good or bad--or
shameful or otherwise.--Why then did the delicacy of Diogenes and Plato so recalcitrate against
it? and wherefore, when we go about to make and plant a man, do we put out the candle? and
for what reason is it, that all the parts thereof--the congredients--the preparations--the
instruments, and whatever serves thereto, are so held as to be conveyed to a cleanly mind by
no language, translation, or periphrasis whatever?

--The act of killing and destroying a man, continued my father, raising his voice--and turning
to my uncle Toby--you see, is glorious--and the weapons by which we do it are honourable--We
march with them upon our shoulders--We strut with them by our sides--We gild them--We carve
them--We in-lay them--We enrich them--Nay, if it be but a scoundrel cannon, we cast an ornament
upon the breach of it.--

--My uncle Toby laid down his pipe to intercede for a better epithet--and Yorick was rising
up to batter the whole hypothesis to pieces--

--When Obadiah broke into the middle of the room with a complaint, which cried out for an immediate
hearing.

The case was this:

My father, whether by ancient custom of the manor, or as impropriator of the great tythes,
was obliged to keep a Bull for the service of the Parish, and Obadiah had led his cow upon
a pop-visit to him one day or other the preceding summer--I say, one day or other--because
as chance would have it, it was the day on which he was married to my father's house-maid--so
one was a reckoning to the other. Therefore when Obadiah's wife was brought to bed--Obadiah
thanked God--

--Now, said Obadiah, I shall have a calf: so Obadiah went daily to visit his cow.

She'll calve on Monday--on Tuesday--on Wednesday at the farthest--

The cow did not calve--no--she'll not calve till next week--the cow put it off terribly--till
at the end of the sixth week Obadiah's suspicions (like a good man's) fell upon the Bull.

Now the parish being very large, my father's Bull, to speak the truth of him, was no way equal
to the department; he had, however, got himself, somehow or other, thrust into employment--and
as he went through the business with a grave face, my father had a high opinion of him.

--Most of the townsmen, an' please your worship, quoth Obadiah, believe that 'tis all the Bull's
fault--

--But may not a cow be barren? replied my father, turning to Doctor Slop.

It never happens: said Dr. Slop, but the man's wife may have come before her time naturally
enough--Prithee has the child hair upon his head?--added Dr. Slop--

--It is as hairy as I am; said Obadiah.--Obadiah had not been shaved for three weeks--Wheu...u...u...cried
my father; beginning the sentence with an exclamatory whistle--and so, brother Toby, this poor
Bull of mine, who is as good a Bull as ever p..ss'd, and might have done for Europa herself
in purer times--had he but two legs less, might have been driven into Doctors Commons and lost
his character--which to a Town Bull, brother Toby, is the very same thing as his life--

L..d! said my mother, what is all this story about?--

A Cock and a Bull, said Yorick--And one of the best of its kind, I ever heard.

End of the Fourth Volume.