The Love Affairs of Pixie, by Mrs George de Horne Vaizey.

Here we have yet again the lovable Pixie, the youngest child of the O'Shaughnessy family, who
had all been brought up at Knock Castle, in Ireland, and about whom two previous books have
been written.  None of the family can quite get their minds round the fact that Pixie is now
old enough to have affairs, and even to marry, especially as they are all aware how very plain
she is.

But Pixie has other ideas.  She becomes engaged to Stanor Vaughan, a very good-looking young
rising businessman, whose very rich but disabled uncle is his guardian.  The uncle suggests
that Stanor should go to America for a couple of years, to become a bit more mature.

Meanwhile there is very nasty and sudden accident to little Jack, an angelic little boy, whom
everybody adores.  Will he survive?

Eventually Stanor returns to London.  But things have sorted themselves out rather better than
we would have thought after the first few chapters.

This book was printed in a very heavy type on thinnish paper.  It was a mistake to scan it
on the default brightness setting, and it was very difficult to clean out all the misreads.
There may yet be a few, but not many, I hope.  These will be taken out eventually, I hope.

CHAPTER ONE.

THE QUESTION OF NOSES.

When Pixie O'Shaughnessy had reached her twentieth birthday it was borne in upon her with the
nature of a shock that she was not beautiful. Hitherto a buoyant and innocent self-satisfaction,
coupled with the atmosphere of love and admiration by which she was surrounded in the family
circle, had succeeded in blinding her eyes to the very obvious defects of feature which the
mirror portrayed.  But suddenly, sharply, her eyes were opened.

"Did it ever occur to you, Bridgie, my dear, that I've grown-up plain?" she demanded of her
sister, Mrs Victor, as the two sat by the fire one winter afternoon, partaking luxuriously
of strong tea and potato cakes, and at the sound of such a surprising question Mrs Victor started
as if a crack of thunder had suddenly pealed through the quiet room.  She stared in amazement;
her big, grey eyes widened dramatically.

"My good child," she demanded sternly, "whatever made you think of asking such a preposterous
question?"

"'Twas borne in on me!" sighed Pixie sadly.  "It's the way with life; ye go jog-trotting along,
blind and cheerful, until suddenly ye bang your head against a wall, and your eyes are opened!
'Twas the same with me. I looked at myself every day, but I never saw.  Habit, my dear, blindfolded
me like a bandage, and looking at good-looking people all day long it seemed only natural that
I should look nice too.  But this morning the sun shone, and I stood before the glass twisting
about to try on my new hat, and, Bridgie, the truth was revealed!  My nose!"

"What's the matter with your nose?" demanded Mrs Victor.  Her own sweet, delicately cut face
was flushed with anger, and she sat with stiffened back staring across the fireplace as if
demanding compensation for a personal injury.

Pixie sighed, and helped herself to another slice of potato cake.

"It scoops!" she said plaintively.  "As you love me, Bridgie, can you deny it scoops?"  And
as if to illustrate the truth of her words she twisted her head so as to present her little
profile for her sister's inspection.

Truly it was not a classic outline!  Sketched in bare outline it would have lacerated an artist's
eye, but then more things than line go to the making up a girlish face: there is youth, for
instance, and a blooming complexion; there is vivacity, and sweetness, and an intangible something
which for want of a better name we call "charm."  Mrs Victor beheld all these attributes in
her sister's face, and her eyes softened as they looked, but her voice was still resentful.

"Of course it scoops.  It always did scoop.  I like it to scoop."

"I like them straight!" persisted Pixie.  "And it isn't as if it stopped at the nose.  There's
my mouth--"

Bridgie's laugh had a tender, reminiscent ring.

"The Mammoth Cave of Kentucky!  D'you remember the Major's old name?  He was proud of your
mouth.  And you had no chin as a child.  You ought to be thankful, Pixie, that you've grown
to a chin!"

"I am," cried Pixie with unction.  "It would be awful to slope down into your neck.  All the
same, me dear, if it was my eyes that were bigger, and my mouth that was smaller, it would
be better for all concerned." She was silent for some moments, staring thoughtfully in the
fire.  From time to time she frowned, and from time to time she smiled; Bridgie divined that
a thought was working, and lay back in her seat, amusedly watching its development.  "There's
a place in Paris," continued Pixie thoughtfully at last, "an institute sort of place, where
they repair noses!  You sort of go in, and they look at you, and there are models and drawings,
and you choose your nose!  The manager is an expert, and if you choose a wrong style he advises,
and says another would suit you better.  I'd love a Greek one myself; it's so chic to float
down straight from the forehead, but I expect he'd advise a blend that wouldn't look too epatant
with my other features.--It takes a fortnight, and it doesn't hurt.  Your nose is gelatine,
not bone; and it costs fifty pounds."

"Wicked waste!" cried Mrs Victor, with all the fervour of a matron whose own nose is beyond
reproach.  "Fifty pounds on a nose!  I never heard of such foolish extravagance."

"Esmeralda paid eighty for a sealskin coat.  A nose would last for life, while if a single
moth got inside the brown paper--whew!"  Pixie waved her hands with the Frenchiness of gesture
which was the outcome of an education abroad, and which made an amusing contrast with an Irish
accent, unusually pronounced.  "I'd think nothing of running over to Paris for a fortnight's
jaunt, and having the nose thrown in.  Fancy me walking in on you all, before you'd well realised
I was away, smart and smiling with a profile like Clytie, or a sweet little acquiline, or a
neat and wavey one, like your own.  You wouldn't know me!"

"I shouldn't!" said Bridgie eloquently.

"Now let's pretend!"  Pixie hitched her chair nearer to the fire, and placed her little feet
on the fender with an air of intense enjoyment. In truth, tea-time, and the opportunity which
it gave of undisturbed parleys with Bridgie, ranked as one of the great occasions of life.
Every day there seemed something fresh and exciting to discuss, and the game of "pretend" made
unfailing appeal to the happy Irish natures, but it was not often that such an original and
thrilling topic came under discussion.  A repaired nose!  Pixie warmed to the theme with the
zest of a skilled raconteur. ...  "You'd be sitting here, and I'd walk in in my hat and veil--a
new-fashioned scriggley veil, as a sort of screen. We'd kiss.  If it was a long kiss, you'd
feel the point, being accustomed to a button, and that would give it away, but I'd make it
short so you'd notice nothing, and I'd sit down with my back to the light, and we'd talk. 
`Take off your hat,' you'd say.  `In a moment,' I'd answer.  `Not yet, me dear, my hair's untidy.'
`You look like a visitor,' you'd say, `with your veil drawn down.'  `It's a French one,' I'd
say.  `It becomes me, doesn't it?  Three francs fifty,' and you'd frown, and stare, and say,
`Does it?  I don't know!  You look-- different, Pixie.  You don't look--yourself!'"

The real Pixie gurgled with enjoyment, and Bridgie Victor gurgled in response.

"Then I'd protest, and ask what was the matter, and say if there was anything, it must be the
veil, and if there was a change wasn't it honestly for the better, and I'd push up my veil
and smile at you; smile languidly across the room.  I can see your face, poor darling!  All
scared and starey, while I turned round s-lowly, s-lowly, until I was sideways towards you,
with me elegant Grecian nose..."

Bridgie shuddered.

"I'd not live through it!  It would break my heart.  With a Grecian nose you might be Patricia,
but you couldn't possibly be Pixie.  It's too horrible to think of!"

But Pixie had in her nature a reserve of obstinacy, and in absolutely good-natured fashion
could "hang on" to a point through any amount of discouragement.

"Now, since you mention it, that's another argument in my favour," she said quickly.  "It's
hard on a girl of twenty to be bereft of her legal name because of incompatibility with her
features.  Now, with a Grecian nose--"

Bridgie sat up suddenly, and cleared her throat.  The time had come to remember her own position
as married sister and guardian, and put a stop to frivolous imaginings.

"May I ask," she demanded clearly, "exactly in what manner you would propose to raise the fifty
pounds?  Your nose is your own to do what you like with--or will be at the end of another year--but--"

"The fifty pounds isn't!  I know it," said Pixie.  She did not sigh, as would have seemed appropriate
at such a moment, but exhibited rather a cheerful and gratified air, as though her own poverty
were an amusing peculiarity which added to the list of her attractions.

"Of course, my dear, nobody ever dreamt for a moment it could be done, but it's always interesting
to pretend.  Don't we amuse ourselves for hours pretending to be millionaires, when you're
all of a flutter about eighteen-pence extra in the laundry bill?  I wonder at you, Bridgie,
pretending to be practical."

"I'm sorry," said Bridgie humbly.  A pang of conscience pierced her heart, for had it not been
her own extravagance which had swelled the laundry bill by that terrible eighteen-pence?  Penitence
engendered a more tender spirit, and she said gently--

"We love your looks, Pixie.  To us you seem lovely and beautiful."

"Bless your blind eyes!  I know I do.  But," added Pixie astonishingly, "I wasn't thinking of you!"

"Not!"  A moment followed of sheer, gaping surprise, for Bridgie Victor was so accustomed to
the devotion of her young sister, so placidly, assured that the quiet family life furnished
the girl with, everything necessary for her happiness, that the suggestion of an outside interest
came as a shock.  "Not!" she repeated blankly. "Then--then--who?"

"My lovers!" replied Pixie calmly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And looking back through the years, it always seemed to Bridgie Victor that with the utterance
of those words the life of Pixie O'Shaughnessy entered upon a new and absorbing phase.

CHAPTER TWO.

PIXIE'S VIEWS ON MARRIAGE.

Bridgie Victor sat gazing at her sister in a numb bewilderment.  It was the first, the very
first time that the girl had breathed a word concerning the romantic possibilities of her own
life, and even Bridgie's trained imagination failed to rise to the occasion.  Pixie! Lovers!
Lovers!  Pixie! ...  The juxtaposition of ideas was too preposterous to be grasped.  Pixie
was a child, the baby of the family, just a bigger, more entertaining baby to play with the
tinies of the second generation, who treated her as one of themselves, and one and all scorned
to bestow the title of "aunt."

There was a young Patricia in the nursery at Knock Castle, and a second edition in the Victor
nursery upstairs; but though the baptismal name of the little sister had been copied, not even
the adoring mothers themselves would have dreamed of borrowing the beloved pet name, Pixie's
nose might not be to her approval; it might even scoop--to be perfectly candid, it did scoop--but
it had never yet been put out of joint.  The one and only, the inimitable Pixie, she still
lived enthroned in the hearts of her brothers and sisters, as something specially and peculiarly
their own.

So it was that a pang rent Bridgie's heart at the realisation that the little sister was grown-up,
was actually twenty years of age--past twenty, going to be twenty-one in a few more months,
and that the time was approaching when a stranger might have the audacity to steal her from
the fold.  To her own heart, Bridgie realised the likelihood of such a theft, and the naturalness
thereof: outwardly, for Pixie's benefit she appeared shocked to death.

"L-lovers!" gasped Bridgie.  "Lovers!  Is it you, Pixie O'Shaughnessy, I hear talking of such
things?  I'm surprised; I'm shocked!  I never could have believed you troubled your head about
such matters."

"But I do," asserted Pixie cheerfully.  "Lots.  Not to say trouble, exactly, for it's most
agreeable.  I pretend about them, and decide what they'll be like.  When I see a man that takes
my fancy, I add him to the list.  Mostly they're clean-shaved, but I saw one the other day
with a beard--" She lifted a warning finger to stay Bridgie's cry of protest. "Not a straggler,
but a naval one, short and trim; and you wouldn't believe how becoming it was!  I decided then
to have one with a beard. And they are mostly tall and handsome, and rolling in riches, so
that I can buy anything I like, nose included.  But one must be poor and sad, because that,"
announced Pixie, in her most radiant fashion, "would be good for my character.  I'd be sorry
for him, the creature!  And, as they say in books, 'twould soften me.  Would you say honestly,
now, Bridgie, that I'm in need of softening?"

"I should not.  I should say you were soft enough already.  Too soft!" declared Bridgie sternly.
"`Them,' indeed!  Plural, I'll trouble you! Just realise, my child, that there are not enough
men to go round, and don't waste time making pictures of a chorus who will never appear.  If
you have one lover, it will be more than your share; and it's doubtful if you ever get that."

"I doubt it," maintained Pixie sturdily.  "I'm plain, but I've a way. You know yourself, me
dear, I've a way! ...  I'm afraid I'll have lots; and that's the trouble of it, for as sure
as you're there, Bridgie, I'll accept them all!  'Twouldn't be in my heart to say no, with
a nice man begging to be allowed to take care of me.  I'd love him on the spot for being so
kind; or if I didn't, and I saw him upset, it would seem only decent to comfort him, so 'twould
end the same way. ...  It breaks my heart when the girls refuse the nice man in books, and
I always long to be able to run after him when he leaves the room--ashy pale, with a nerve
twitching beside his eye--and ask him will I do instead!  If I feel like that to another girl's
lover, what will I do to my own?"

Bridgie stared aghast.  Her brain was still reeling from the shock of hearing Pixie refer to
the subject of lovers at all, and here was yet another problem looming ahead.  With a loving
grasp of her sister's character, she realised that the protestations to which she had just
listened embodied a real danger.  Pixie had always been "the soft-heartedest creature," who
had never from her earliest years been known to refuse a plea for help.  It would only be in
keeping with her character if she accepted a suitor out of pure politeness and unwillingness
to hurt his feelings.  Bridgie was a happy wife, and for that very reason was determined that
if care and guidance, if authority, and persuasion, and precept, and a judicious amount of
influence could do it, Pixie should never be married, unless it were to the right man. She
therefore adopted her elderly attitude once more, and said firmly--

"It's very wicked and misguided even to talk in such a way.  When the time comes that a man
asks you to marry him--if it ever comes--it will be your first and foremost duty to examine
your own heart and see if you love him enough to live with him all his life, whether he is
ill or well, or rich or poor, or happy or sad.  You will have to decide whether you would be
happier with him in trouble or free by yourself, and you'd have to remember that it's not always
too easy managing a house, and-- and walking about half the night with a teething baby, and
darning socks, when you want to go out, and wearing the same dress three years running, even
if you love the man you've married.  Of course, some girls marry rich husbands--like Esmeralda;
but that's rare.  Far more young couples begin as we did, with having to be careful about every
shilling; and that, my dear, is not agreeable!  You need to be very fond of a man to make it
worth while to go on short commons all your life.  You need to think things over very carefully,
before you accept an offer of marriage."

Pixie sat listening, her head cocked to one side, with the air of a bright, intelligent bird.
When Bridgie had finished speaking she sighed and knitted her brows, and stared thoughtfully
into the fire.  It was obvious that she was pondering over what had been said, and did not
find herself altogether in agreement with the rules laid down.

"You mean," she said slowly, "that I should have to think altogether of myself and what would
suit Me and make me happy?  That's strange, now; that's very strange!  To bring a girl up all
her life to believe it's her duty in every small thing that comes along to put herself last
and her family in front, and then when she's a grown-up woman, and a man comes along who believes,
poor thing! that she could help him and make him happy, then just at that moment you tell her
to be selfish and think only of herself. ...  'Tis not that way I'll conduct my love affairs!"
cried Pixie O'Shaughnessy.  Her eyes met Bridgie's, and flashed defiance.  "When I meet a man
who needs me I'll find my own happiness in helping him!"

"Bless you, darling!" said Bridgie softly.  "I am quite sure you will. ...  It's a very, very
serious time for a woman when the question of marriage comes into her life.  You can't treat
it too seriously.  I have not thought of it so far in connection with you, but now that I do
I'll pray about it, Pixie!  I'll pray for you, that you may be guided to a right choice.  You'll
pray that for yourself, won't you, dear?"

"I will," said Pixie quietly.  "I do.  And for him--the man I may marry. I've prayed for him
quite a long time."

"The ... the man!"  Bridgie was so surprised as to appear almost shocked.  "My dear, you don't
know him!"

"But he is alive, isn't he?  He must be, if I'm going to marry him. Alive, and grown-up, and
living, perhaps, not so far away.  Perhaps he's an orphan, Bridgie; or if he has a home, perhaps
he's had to leave it and live in a strange town. ...  Perhaps he's in lodgings, going home
every night to sit alone in a room.  Perhaps he's trying to be good, and finding it very hard.
Perhaps there's no one in all the world to pray for him but just me.  Bridgie!  If I'm going
to love him how can I not pray?"

Mrs Victor rose hurriedly from her seat, and busied herself with the arrangement of the curtains.
They were heavy velvet curtains, which at night-time drew round the whole of the large bay
window which formed the end of the pretty, cosy room.  Bridgie took especial pleasure in the
effect of a great brass vase which, on its oaken pedestal, stood sharply outlined against the
rich, dark folds.  She moved its position now, moved it back into its original place, and touched
the leaves of the chrysanthemum which stood therein with a caressing hand.  Six years' residence
in a town had not sufficed to teach the one-time mistress of Knock Castle to be economical
when purchasing flowers.  "I can't live without them.  It's not my fault if they are dear!"
she would protest to her own conscience at the sight of the florist's bill.

And in truth, who could expect a girl to be content with a few scant blossoms when she had
lived all her early age in the midst of prodigal plenty!  In spring the fields had been white
with snowdrops.  Sylvia sent over small packing-cases every February, filled with hundreds
and hundreds of little tight bunches of the spotless white flowers, and almost every woman
of Bridgie's acquaintance rejoiced with her on their arrival.  After the snowdrops came on
the wild daffodils and bluebells and primroses.  They arrived in cases also, fragrant with
the scent which was really no scent at all, but just the incarnation of everything fresh, and
pure, and rural.  Then came the blossoming of trees.  Bridgie sighed whenever she thought of
blossom, for that was one thing which would not pack; and the want of greenery too, that was
another cross to the city dweller.  She longed to break off great branches of trees, and place
them in corners of the room; she longed to wander into the fields and pick handfuls of grasses,
and honeysuckle, and prickly briar sprays.  Who could blame her for taking advantage of what
compensation lay within reach?

This afternoon, however, the contemplation of the tawny chrysanthemums displayed in the brass
vase failed to inspire the usual joy.  Bridgie's eyes were bright indeed as she turned back
into the room, but it was the sort of brightness which betokens tears repressed.  She laid
her hand on the little sister's shoulders, and spoke in the deepest tone of her tender Irish
voice--

"What has been happening to you, my Pixie, all this time when I've been treating you as a child?
Have you been growing up quietly into a little woman?"

Pixie smiled up into her face--a bright, unclouded smile.

"Faith," she said, radiantly, "I believe.  I have!"

CHAPTER THREE.

NEARLY TWENTY-ONE!

Bridgie rang the bell to have the tea-things removed and a message sent to the nursery that
the children might descend without further delay. It was still a few minutes before the orthodox
hour, but the conversation had reached a point when a distraction would be welcome, and Jack
and Patsie were invariably prancing with impatience from the moment when the smell of hot potato
cakes ascended from below.

They came with a rush, pattering down the staircase with a speed which made Bridgie gasp and
groan, and bursting open the door entered the room at the double.  Jack was five, and wore
a blue tunic with an exceedingly long-waisted belt, beneath which could be discerned the hems
of abbreviated knickers.  Patricia was three, and wore a limp white frock reaching to the tips
of little red shoes.  She had long brown locks, and eyes of the true O'Shaughnessy grey, and
was proudly supposed to resemble her beautiful aunt Joan.  Jack was fair, with linty locks
and a jolly brown face.  His mouth might have been smaller and still attained a fair average
in size, but for the time being his pretty baby teeth filled the cavern so satisfactorily,
that no one could complain.

Both children made straight for their mother, smothered her with "Bunnie" hugs, and then from
the shelter of her arms cast quick, questioning glances across the fireplace.  There was in
their glance a keenness, a curiosity, almost amounting to awe, which would at once have arrested
the attention of an onlooker.  It was not in the least the smiling glance of recognition which
is accorded to a member of the household on meeting again after one of the short separations
of the day; it resembled far more the half-nervous, half-pleasurable shrinking from an introduction
to a stranger, about whom was wrapped a cloak of deepest mystery.  As for Pixie herself she
sat bolt upright in her seat, staring fixedly into space, and apparently unconscious of the
children's presence.

Presently Jack took a tentative step forward, and Patsie followed in his wake.  Half a yard
from Pixie's chair they stopped short with eager, craning faces, with bodies braced in readiness
for a flying retreat.

"Pixie!"

No answer.  Still the rigid, immovable figure.  Still the fixed and staring eye.

"P-ixie!"

The eyes rolled; a deep, hollow voice boomed forth--

"I'm not Pixie!"

The expected had happened.  They had known it was coming; would have been bitterly disappointed
if it had failed, nevertheless they writhed and capered as though overcome with amazement.

"P-ixie, Pixie, Who--Are--You--Now?"

"I'm a wild buffalo of the plains!" answered Pixie unexpectedly, and as a wild buffalo she
comported herself for the next half-hour, ambling on hands and knees round the room, while
the children wreathed her neck with impromptu garlands made of wools from their mother's work-basket,
and made votive offerings of sofa cushions, footstools, and india-rubber toys.

In the midst of the uproar Bridgie jumped from her seat and flew to the door, her ears sharp
as ever to hear the click of her husband's latch-key.  The greeting in the narrow hall was
delightfully lover-like for a married couple of six years' standing, and they entered the drawing-room
arm-in-arm, smiling with a contentment charming to witness. Captain Victor was satisfied that
no one in the world possessed such an altogether delightful specimen of womanhood as his "bride."
She was so sweet, so good, so unselfish, and in addition to these sterling qualities, she was
so cheerful, so spontaneous, so unexpected, that it was impossible for life to grow dull and
monotonous while she was at the head of the household.

He acknowledged tenderly, and with a shrug of the shoulders to express resignation, that she
might have been a cleverer housekeeper and just a thought more economical in expenditure! but
considering her happy-go-lucky upbringing under the most thriftless of fathers, the darling
really deserved more praise for what she accomplished than blame for what was left undone.

Bridgie, on the contrary, considered that Dick worried his head ridiculously about ways and
means.  Not for the world and all that it contained would she have accused him of being mean:
she merely shrugged her shoulders and reminded herself that he was English, poor thing!  English
people had a preference for seeing money visibly in their purses before they spent it, while
she herself had been brought up in a cheerful confidence that it would "turn up" somehow to
pay the bills which had been incurred in faith.

Captain Victor displayed not the faintest astonishment at discovering his sister-in-law on
all fours, nor did he appear overcome to be introduced to her as a buffalo of the plains. 
He smiled at her almost as tenderly as at his own babies, and said--

"How do, Buff!  Pleased to have met you.  So kind of you to make hay in my drawing-room," which
reproof brought Pixie quickly to her rightful position.  That was another English characteristic
of Dick Victor--he hated disorder, and was not appreciative of uproar on his return from a
day's work.  Therefore there were picture-books in waiting for his return, and after a few
minutes parleying Pixie cajoled the children into the dining-room on the plea of a bigger and
more convenient table for the display of their treasures, leaving the husband and wife alone.

Dick lay back in his easy chair, and stretched himself with an involuntary sigh of relief.
He was devoted to his children, but a quiet chat with Bridgie was the treat par excellence
at this hour of the day when he was tired and in need of rest.  He stretched out a hand towards
her, and she stroked it with gentle fingers.

"Ye're tired, dear.  Will I get you a cup of tea?  It's not long since it went out.  If I poured
some hot-water in the pot..."

Dick shuddered.

"Thank you, ma'am, no!  If I have any, I'll have it fresh, but I don't care about it to-day.
It's nice just to rest and talk.  Anything happened to you to-day?"

"There always does.  It's the most exciting thing in the world to be the mistress of a household,"
said Bridgie, with relish.  There were few days when Captain Victor was not treated to a history
of accidents and contretemps on his return home, but unlike most husbands he rather anticipated
than dreaded the recital, for Bridgie so evidently enjoyed it herself, taking a keen retrospective
joy over past discomfitures.

The Victor household had its own share of vicissitudes, more than its share perhaps, but through
them all there survived a spirit of kindliness and good fellowship which took away more than
half the strain.  Maidservants arriving in moods of suspicion and antagonism found themselves
unconsciously unarmed by the cheery, kindly young mistress, who administered praise more readily
than blame, and so far from "giving herself airs" treated them with friendly kindliness and
consideration.  On the very rare occasions when a girl was poor-spirited enough to persist
in her antagonism, off she went with a month's money in her pocket, for the peace of her little
home was the greatest treasure in the world to Bridgie Victor, and no hireling could be allowed
to disturb it.  The service in the little house might not be as mechanically perfect as in
some others, the meals might vary in excellence, but that was a secondary affair.  "If a bad
temper is a necessary accompaniment of a good cook, then--give me herbs!" she would cry, shrugging
her pretty shoulders, and her husband agreed--with reservations!

He was a very happy, a very contented man, and every day of his life he thanked God afresh
for his happy home, for his children, for the greatest treasure of all, sweet Bridget, his wife!

To-day, however, the disclosure had nothing to do with domestic revolutions, and Bridgie's
tone in making her announcement held an unusual note of tragedy.

"Dick, guess what!  You'll never guess!  Pixie's grown-up!"

For a moment Captain Victor looked as was expected of him--utterly bewildered.  He lay back
in his chair, his handsome face blank and expressionless, the while he stared steadily at his
wife, and Bridgie stared back, her distress palpably mingled with complacence.  Speak she would
not, until Dick had given expression to his surprise.  She sat still, therefore, shaking her
head in a melancholy mandarin fashion, which had the undesired effect of restoring his complacence.

"My darling, what unnecessary woe!  It's astounding, I grant you; one never expected such a
feat of Pixie; but the years will pass--there's no holding them, unfortunately.  How old is
she, by the way?  Seventeen, I suppose--eighteen?"

"Twenty--nearly twenty-one!"

Bridgie's tone was tragic, and Dick Victor in his turn looked startled and grave.  He frowned,
bit his lip, and stared thoughtfully across the room.

"Twenty-one?  Is it possible?  Grown-up, indeed!  Bridgie, we should have realised this before.
We have been so content with things as they were that we've been selfishly blind.  If Pixie
is over twenty we have not been treating her fairly.  We have treated her too much as a child.
We ought to have entertained for her, taken her about."

Bridgie sighed, and dropped her eyelids to hide the twinkle in her eyes. Like most husbands
Dick preferred a quiet domestic evening at the end of a day abroad: like most wives Bridgie
would have enjoyed a little diversion at the end of a day at home.  Sweetly and silently for
nearly half a dozen years she had subdued her preferences to his, feeling it at once her pleasure
and her duty to do so, but now, if duty suddenly assumed the guise of a gayer, more sociable
life, then most cheerfully would Irish Bridgie accept the change.

"I think, dear," she said primly, "it would be wise.  Esmeralda has said so many a time, but
I took no notice.  I never did take any notice of Esmeralda, but she was right this time, it
appears, and I was wrong. Imagine it!  Pixie began bemoaning that she was not pretty, and it
was not herself she was grieving for, or you, or Me!"--Bridgie's voice sounded a crescendo
of amazement over that last pronoun--"but whom do you suppose?  You'll never guess!  Her future
lovers!"

It was just another instance of the provokingness of man that at this horrible disclosure Dick
threw himself back in his chair in a peal of laughter; he laughed and laughed till the tears
stood in his eyes, and Bridgie, despite herself, joined in the chorus.  The juxtaposition of
Pixie and lovers had proved just as startling to him as to his wife, but while she had been
scandalised, he was frankly, whole-heartedly amused.

"Pixie!" he cried.  "Pixie with a lover!  It would be about as easy to think of Patsie.  Dear,
quaint little Pixie!  Who dares to say she isn't pretty?  Her funny little nose, her big, generous
mouth are a hundred times more charming than the ordinary pretty face.  I'll tell you what
it is, darling,"--he sobered suddenly;--"Pixie's lover, whoever he may be, will be an uncommonly
lucky fellow!"

Husband and wife sat in silence for some moments after this, hand in hand, as their custom
was in hours of privacy, while the thoughts of each pursued the same subject--Pixie's opening
life and their own duty towards it.

On both minds was borne the unwilling realisation that their own home was not the ideal abode
to afford the experience of life, the open intercourse with young people of her own age which
it was desirable that the girl should now enjoy.  As a means of adding to his income Captain
Victor had accepted the position of adjutant to a volunteer corps in a northern city, and,
as comparatively new residents, his list of acquaintances was but small.

Esmeralda, or to speak more correctly, Joan, the second daughter of the O'Shaughnessy family,
as the wife of the millionaire, Geoffrey Hilliard, possessed a beautiful country seat not sixty
miles from town, while Jack, the eldest brother, had returned to the home of his fathers, Knock
Castle, in Ireland, on the money which his wife had inherited from her father, after he had
become engaged to her in her character of a penniless damsel.  Jack was thankful all his life
to remember that fact, though his easy-going Irish nature found nothing to worry about in the
fact that the money was legally his wife's, and not his own.

Both Esmeralda as a society queen, and Sylvia as chatelaine of Knock, had opportunities of
showing life to a young girl, with which Bridgie in her modest little home in a provincial
town could not compete. Nevertheless, the heart of the tender elder sister was loath to part
from her charge at the very moment when watchfulness and guidance were most important.  She
fought against the idea; assured herself that there was time, plenty of time.  What, after
all, was twenty-one?  In two, three years one might talk about society; in the meantime let
the child be!  And Captain Victor, in his turn, looked into the future, and saw his Bridgie
left sisterless in this strange town, bereft all day long of the society of the sweetest and
most understanding of companions, and he, too, sighed, and asked himself what was the hurry.
Surely another year, a couple of years!  And then, being one in reality as well as in name,
the eyes of husband and wife met and lingered, and, as if at the sweep of an angel's wing,
the selfish thoughts fell away, and they faced their duty and accepted it once for all.

Bridgie leaned her head on her husband's shoulder and sighed thankfully.

"I have you, Dick, and the children!  'Twould be wicked to complain."

And Dick murmured gruffly--

"I want no one but you," and held her tightly in his arms, while Bridgie sniffed, and whimpered,
like one of her own small children.

"But if P-ixie--if Pixie is unhappy--if any wretched man breaks Pixie's heart--"

"He couldn't!"  Dick Victor said firmly.  "No man could.  That's beyond them.  Heart's like
Pixie's don't break, Honey!  I don't say they, may not ache at times, but breaking is a different
matter.  Your bantling is grown-up: you can keep her no longer beneath your wing.  She must
go out into the world, and work and suffer like the rest, but she'll win through.  Pixie the
woman will be a finer creature than Pixie the child!"

But Bridgie hid her face, and the tears rushed into her eyes, for hers was the mother's heart
which longed ever to succour and protect, and Pixie was the child whom a dying father had committed
to her care.  It was hard to let Pixie go.

CHAPTER FOUR.

THE INVITATION.

The immediate consequence of the Pixie pronouncement was a correspondence between her two elder
sisters, wherein Bridgie ate humble-pie, and Esmeralda rode the high horse after the manner born.

"You were right about Pixie, darling.  It is dull for her here in this strange town, where
we have so few friends; and now that she is nearly twenty-one it does not seem right to shut
her up.  She ought to go about and see the world, and meet boys and girls of her own age. 
And so, dear, would it be convenient to you to have her for a few months until you go up to
town?  Your life in the country will seem a whirl of gaiety after our monotonous jog-trot,
and she has been so useful and diligent, helping me these last years with never a thought for
her own enjoyment, that she deserves all the fun she can get.  I am sad at parting from her,
but if it's for her good I'll make the effort.  She has two nice new frocks, and I could get
her another for parties."  Thus Bridgie. Esmeralda's reply came by return--the big, slanting
writing, plentifully underlined--

"At last, my dear, you have come to your senses.  For a sweet-tempered person, you certainly
have, as I've told you before, a surprising amount of obstinacy.  In future do try to believe
that in matters of worldly wisdom I know best, and be ruled by me!

"Pixie can come at once--the sooner the better, but for pity's sake, my dear, spare me the
frocks.  Felice can run her up a few things to last until I have time to take her to town.
If I am to take her about, she must be dressed to please me, and do me credit.

"We have people coming and going all the time, and I'll be thankful to have her.  I wouldn't
say so for the world, Bridgie, but you have been selfish about Pixie!  Never a bit of her have
I had to myself; she has come for the regular Christmas visits, of course, and sometimes in
summer, but it's always been with you and Dick and the children; it's only the leavings of
attention she's had to spare for any one else.  Now my boys will have a chance!  Perhaps she
can keep them in order--I can't!  They are the pride and the shame, and the joy and the grief,
and the sunshine and the--thunder and lightning and earthquake of my life. Bridgie, did you
ever think it would feel like that to be a mother?  I thought it would be all pure joy, but
there's a big ache mixed in--

"Geoff was so naughty this morning, so disobedient and rude, and I prayed, Bridgie--I shut
myself in my room and prayed for patience, and then went down and spoke to him so sweetly.
You'd have loved to hear me.  I said: `If you want to grow up a good, wise man like father,
you must learn to be gentle and polite.  Did you ever hear father speak rudely to me?'--`Oh,
no,' says he, quite simply, `but I've often heard you speak rudely to him!'  Now, what was
a poor misguided mother to say to that?  Especially when it was True!  You are never cross,
so your youngsters can never corner you like that; but I am--often!  Which proves that I need
Pixie more than you do, and she'd better hurry along."

Pixie came lightly into the dining-room, just as Bridgie was reading the last words of the
letter.  She was almost invariably late for breakfast, a fact which was annoying to Captain
Victor's soldierly sense of punctuality.  He looked markedly at the clock, and Pixie said genially,
"I apologise, me dear.  The young need sleep!"  Then she fell to work at her porridge with
healthy enjoyment.  She wore a blue serge skirt and a bright, red silk shirt, neatly belted
by a strip of patent-leather.  The once straggly locks were parted in the middle, and swathed
round a little head which held itself jauntily aloft; her eyes danced, her lips curved.  It
was a bare eight o'clock in the morning, a period when most people are languid and half-awake.
But there was no languor about Pixie; she looked intensely, brilliantly alive.  A stream of
vitality seemed to emanate from her little form and fill the whole room.  The dog stirred on
the rug and rose to his feet; the canary hopped to a higher perch and began to sing; Dick Victor
felt an access of appetite, and helped himself to a second egg and more bacon.

"This is Wednesday," announced Pixie genially, "and it's fine.  I love fine Wednesdays!  It's
a habit from the old school-time, when they were half-holidays, and meant so, much. ...  I
wonder what nice thing will happen to-day."

Husband and wife exchanged a glance.  They knew and loved this habit of expecting happiness,
and looking forward to the joys rather than the sorrows of the future, which had all her life,
been characteristic of Pixie O'Shaughnessy.  They realised that it was to this quality of mind,
rather than to external happenings, that she owed her cheerful serenity, but this morning it
was impossible not to wonder how she would view the proposed change of abode.

"I've had a letter from Esmeralda," announced Bridgie baldly from behind the urn, and, quick
as thought, Pixie's sharp eyes searched her face.

"But that's not nice.  It's given you a wrinkle.  Take no notice, and she'll write to-morrow
to say she's sorry.  She's got to worry or die, but there's no reason why you should die too.
Roll it up into spills, and forget all about it."

"I can't--it's important.  And she's not worrying.  It's very--" Bridgie paused for a moment,
just one moment, to swallow that accusation of selfishness--"kind!  Pixie darling, it's about You."

"Me!" cried Pixie, and dropped her spoon with a clang.  Bridgie had already pushed back her
chair from the table; Pixie pushed hers to follow suit.  Such a prosaic affair as breakfast
had plainly vanished from their thoughts, but Captain Victor had by no means forgotten, nor
did it suit him to face emotional scenes to an accompaniment of bacon and eggs.

"After breakfast, please!" he cried, in what his wife described as his "barracks" voice, and
which had the effect in this instance of making her turn on the tap of the urn so hurriedly
that she had not had time to place her cup underneath.  She blushed and frowned.  Pixie deftly
moved the toast-rack so as to conceal the damage, and proceeded to eat a hearty breakfast with
undiminished appetite.

It was not until Captain Victor had left the room to pay his morning visit to the nursery,
that Bridgie again referred to her sister's letter, and then her first words were of reproach.

"How you could sit there, Pixie, eating your breakfast, as calm as you please, when you knew
there was news--news that concerned yourself!"

"I was hungry," said Pixie calmly.  "And I love excitement; it's the breath of my nostrils.
All the while I was making up stories, with myself as heroine.  I'm afraid it will be only
disappointment I'll feel when you tell me.  Truth is so tame, compared to imagination.  Besides,
there was Dick!"  She smiled a forbearing, elderly smile.  "You can't live in the house with
Dick without learning self-control.  He's so--"

"He's not!" contradicted Dick's wife, with loyal fervour.  "Dick was quite right; he always
is.  It was his parents who were to blame for making him English."  She sighed, and stared
reflectively out of the window.  "We ought to be thankful, Pixie, that we are Irish through
and through.  It means so much that English people can't even understand-- seeing jokes when
they are sad, and happiness when they are bored and being poor and not caring, and miserable
and forgetting, and interested, and excited--"

"Every single hour!" concluded Pixie deeply, and they laughed in concert.  In the contemplation
of the advantages of an Irish temperament they had come near forgetting the real subject of
discussion, but the sight of the letter on the table before her recalled it to Bridgie's remembrance.
She straightened her back and assumed an air of responsibility, a natural dramatic instinct
prompting her to play her part in appropriate fashion.

"Dick and I have been feeling, my dear, that as you are now really grown-up, you ought to be
having a livelier time than we can give you in this strange town, and Esmeralda has been saying
the same thing for years past.  She feels we have been rather selfish in keeping you so much
to ourselves, and thinks that it is her turn to have you to live with her for a time.  We think
so too, Pixie.  Not for altogether, of course.  For three or four months, say; and then you
might go over to Knock, and come back to us again for Christmas.  Of course, darling, you understand
that we don't want you to go!"

Pixie stared silently across the table.  She had grown rather white, and her brows were knitted
in anxious consideration.

"Bridget Victor," she said solemnly, "is it the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth you are telling me, or is it just an excuse to get me out of the way?  If there's any
trouble, or worry, or illness, or upset coming on, that you want to spare me because I'm young,
you'd better know at once that it will only be the expense of the journey wasted, for on the
very first breath of it I'd fly back to you if it was across the world!"

"I know it," said Bridgie, and blinked back a tear.  "But it's the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, Pixie, that we are the happiest, and the healthiest, and the contentedest little
family in the country, and there's no need to worry about us.  We were thinking only of you,
and you are free in this instance to think only of yourself."

"That's agreeable!" was Pixie's comment.  The frown left her brow and she smiled, the wide
lips parting to show brilliantly white little teeth, teeth very nearly as pretty and infantile
as those belonging to the small Patsie upstairs.  Beholding that smile, Bridgie had no doubt
as to the verdict which she was about to hear, and suffered an unreasoning pang of disappointment.

"Then I'll confess to you, my dear," continued Pixie affably, "that I find myself just in the
mood for excitement.  So long as you are well there's nothing on earth I'd love so much at
this moment as to go off on a junket.  If Esmeralda wants to give me a good time, let the poor
thing have her way--I'll not hinder her!  I'll go, and I'll love it; but I'll not promise how
long I shall stay--all sorts of things may happen."

"Yes," said Bridgie dreamily, "all sorts of things!"

And so Pixie O'Shaughnessy went forth to meet her fate.

CHAPTER FIVE.

IN MARBLE HALLS.

Mrs Geoffrey Hilliard, nee Joan O'Shaughnessy, was the second daughter of the family, and had
been christened Esmeralda "for short" by the brothers and sisters of whom she had been alternately
the pride and the trial.  The fantastic name had an appropriateness so undeniable that even
Joan's husband had adopted it in his turn for use in the family circle, reserving the more
dignified "Joan" for more ceremonious occasions.

"Esmeralda" had been a beauty from her cradle, and would be a beauty if she lived to be a hundred,
for her proud, restless features were perfectly chiselled, and her great grey eyes, with the
long black lashes on the upper and lower lid, were as eloquent as they were lovely.  When she
was angry, they seemed to send out veritable flashes of fire; when she was languid, the white
lids drooped and the fringed eyelashes veiled them in a misty calm; when she was loving, when
she held her boys in her arms, or spoke a love word in her husband's ear, ah!  Then it was
a joy indeed to behold the beauty of those limpid eyes!  They "melted" indeed, not with tears,
but with the very essence of tenderness and love.

"Esmeralda's so nice that you couldn't believe she was so horrid!" Pixie had declared once
in her earlier years, and unfortunately there was still too much truth in the pronouncement.

Seven years of matrimony, and the responsibility of two young sons, had failed to discipline
the hasty, intolerant nature, although they had certainly deepened the inner longing for improvement.
Joan devotedly loved her husband, but accepted as her right his loyal devotion, and felt bitterly
aggrieved when his forbearance occasionally gave way.

She adored her two small sons, and her theories on motherhood were so sweet and lofty that
Bridgie, listening thereto, had been moved to tears.  But in practice the theories were apt
to go to the wall.  To do Joan justice she would at any time have marched cheerfully to the
stake if by so doing she could have saved her children from peril, but she was incapable of
being patient during one long rainy afternoon, when confinement in the house had aroused into
full play those mischievous instincts characteristic of healthy and spirited youngsters; and
if any one imagines that the two statements contradict each other, he has yet to learn that
heroic heights of effort are easier of accomplishment than a steady jog-trot along a dull high-road.

Joan Hilliard's reflections on the coming of her younger sister were significant of her mental
attitude.  "Pixie's no trouble.  She's such an easy soul.  She fits into corners and fills
in the gaps.  She'll amuse the boys.  It will keep them in good humour to have her to invent
new games.  She'll keep Geoff company at breakfast when I'm tired.  I'll get some of the duty
visits over while she's here.  She'll talk to the bores, and be so pleased at the sound of
her own voice that she'll never notice they don't answer.  And she'll cheer me up when I'm
bored. And, of course, I'll take her about--"

Pixie's amusement, it will be noticed, was but a secondary consideration to Joan's own ease
and comfort; for though it may be a very enjoyable experience to be a society beauty and exchange
poverty for riches, no one will be brave enough to maintain that such an experience is conducive
to the growth of spiritual qualities.  Sweet-hearted Bridgie might possibly have come unscathed
through the ordeal, but Esmeralda was made of a different clay.

Pixie started alone on the three hours' journey, for the Victor household possessed no maid
who could be spared, and husband and wife were both tied by home duties; moreover, being a
modern young woman, she felt perfectly competent to look after herself, and looked forward
to the experience with pleasure rather than dread.  Bridgie was inclined to be tearful at parting,
and Pixie's artistic sense prompted a similar display, but she found herself simply incapable
of forcing a tear.

"It's worse for you than for me," she confessed candidly, "for you've nothing to do, poor creature!
But go home to cold mutton and darning, while I'm off to novelty and adventure.  That's why
the guests sometimes cry at a wedding, out of pity for themselves, because they can't go off
on a honeymoon with a trousseau and an adoring groom.  They pretend it's sympathetic emotion,
but it isn't; it's nothing in the world but selfish regret. ...  Don't cry, darling; it makes
me feel so mean.  Think of the lovely tete-a-tete this will mean for Dick and you!"

"Yes--in the evenings.  I'll love that!" confessed Bridgie, with the candour of her race. 
"But oh, Pixie, the long, dull days, and no one to laugh with me at the jokes the English can't
see, or to make pretend!--"

"Ah!" mourned Pixie deeply, "I'll miss that, too!  The times we've had, imagining a fortune
arriving by the afternoon post, and spending it all before dinner!  All the fun, and none of
the trouble.  But it's dull, imagining all by oneself!  And Dick's no good.  He calls it waste
of time!  I shall marry an Irishman, Bridgie, when my time comes!"

"Get into the train and don't talk nonsense!" said Bridgie firmly.  She felt it prophetic that
on this eve of departure Pixie's remarks should again touch on husbands and weddings, but not
for the world would she have hinted as much.  She glanced at the other occupant of the carriage--a
stout, middle-aged woman, and was on the point of inviting her chaperonage when a warning gleam
in Pixie's eyes silenced the words on her lips.  So presently the train puffed out of the station,
and Bridgie Victor turned sadly homewards even as Pixie seated herself with a bounce, and smiled
complacently into space.

"That's over!" she said to herself with a sigh of relief, glad as ever, to be done with painful
things and able to look forward to the good to come.  "She thinks she's miserable, the darling,
but she'll be as happy as a grig the moment she gets back to Dick and the children.  That's
the worst of living with married sisters!  They can manage so well without you.  I'd prefer
some one who was frantic if I turned my back--"

She smiled at the thought, and met an ingratiating smile upon the face of her travelling companion.
The companion was stout and elderly, handsomely dressed, and evidently of a sociable disposition.
It was the height of her ambition on a railway journey to meet another woman to whom she could
shout confidences for hours upon end, but it was rarely that her sentiments were returned.
Fate had been kind to her to-day in placing Pixie O'Shaughnessy in the same carriage.

"The young lady seemed quite distressed to leave you.  Is she your sister?"

"She is.  Do you think we are alike?"

"I--I wouldn't go so far as to say alike!" the large lady said blandly; "but there's a look!
As I always say, there's no knowing where you are with a family likeness.  My eldest girl--May--takes
after her father; Felicia, the youngest, is the image of myself; yet they've been mistaken
for each other times and again.  It's a turn of the chin.--Is she married?"

"Who?  Bridgie--my sister?  Oh yes--very much.  Six years."

"Dear me!  She looks so young!  My May is twenty-seven.  She has had her chances, of course.
Any children?"

"Wh--" Pixie's mind again struggled after the connection.  "Oh, two--a boy and a girl.  They
are called," she added, with a benevolent consciousness of sparing further effort, "Patrick
and Patricia."

"Irish, evidently," the large lady decided shrewdly.  "Rather awkward, isn't it, about pet
names, and laundry marks, and so forth?  However. ...  And so you've been paying her a visit,
I suppose, and are returning to your home?"

"One of my homes," corrected Pixie happily.  "I have three.  Two sisters and one brother. 
And they all like to have me.  My parents are dead." Her tone showed that the loss referred
to was of many years' standing; nevertheless, the stout lady hurriedly changed the conversation,
as though fearful of painful reminiscences.

"I have been having a morning's shopping.  We live quite in the country, and I come to town
every time I need a new gown.  I have been arranging for one this morning, for a wedding. 
So difficult, when one has no ideas!  I chose purple."

Pixie cocked her head on one side and thoughtfully pursed her lips.

"Very nice!  Yes, purple's so--portly!"  She surprised a puckering of the large lady's face,
and hastened to supplement the description. "Portly, and--er--regal, and duchessy, don't you
think?  I met a duchess once--she was rather like you--and she wore purple!"

The large lady expanded in a genial warmth.  Her lips opened in a breathless question--

"How was the bodice made?"

Pixie reflected deeply.

"I can't exactly say!  But it was years ago.  It would be quite demode.  For a wedding, of
course, you must be up to date.  Weddings make a fuss for months, and are so soon over--I mean
for the guests. They are not much fun."

"Where did you meet the Duchess?"

"Oh, at my sister's--the one I am going to now.  In her town house, at a reception one afternoon.
She had a purple dress with lace, and a Queen Victoria sort of bonnet with strings, and little
white feathers sticking up in the front; and she had a--" Pixie smiled into space with reminiscent
enjoyment--"beautiful sense of humour!"

The large lady looked deeply impressed, and, beginning at the topmost ribbon on Pixie's hat,
stared steadily downward to the tip of the little patent-leather shoe, evidently expecting
to find points of unusual interest in the costume of a girl whose sister entertained a duchess
in her town house.  The train had rattled through a small hamlet and come out again into the
open before she spoke again.

"Do you see many of them?"

"Which?  What?  Bonnets?  Feathers?  I don't think I quite--"

"Duchesses!" said the large lady deeply.  And Pixie, who still preserved her childish love
of cutting a dash, fought with, and overcame an unworthy temptation to invent several such
titles on the spot.

"Not--many," she confessed humbly, "But, you see, I'm so young--I'm hardly `out.'  The sister
with whom I've been living has not been able to entertain.  Where I'm going it is different.
I expect to be very gay."

The large lady nodded brightly.

"Quite right!  Quite right!  Only young once.  Laugh while you may.  I like to see young things
enjoying themselves. ...  And then you'll be getting engaged, and marrying."

"Oh, of course," assented Pixie, with an alacrity in such sharp contrast with the protests
with which the modern girl sees fit to meet such prophecies, that the hearer was smitten not
only with surprise but anxiety.  An expression of real motherly kindliness shone in her eyes
as she fixed them upon the girl's small, radiant face.

"I hope it will be `of course,' dear, and that you may be very, very happy; but it's a serious
question.  I'm an old-fashioned body, who believes in love.  If it's the real thing it lasts,
and it's about the only thing upon which you can count.  Health comes and goes, and riches
take wing.  When I married Papa he was in tin-plates, and doing well, but owing to American
treaties (you wouldn't understand!) we had to put down servants and move into a smaller house.
Now, if I'd married him for money, how should I have felt then?"

Pixie wagged her head with an air of the deepest dejection.  She was speculating as to the
significance of tin-plates, but thought it tactful not to inquire.

"I hope--" she breathed deeply--"I hope the tin-plates--" and her companion gathered together
her satchel and cloak in readiness for departure at the next station, nodding a cheerful reassurance.

"Oh, yes; quite prosperous again!  Have been for years.  But it only shows. ...  And Papa has
attacks of gout.  They are trying, my dear, to me, as well as to himself; but if you love a
man--well, it comes easier. ...  Here's my station.  So glad to have met you!  I'll remember
about the purple."

The train stopped, and the good lady alighted and passed through the wicket-gate, and her late
companion watched her pass with a sentimental sigh.

"`Ships that pass in the night, and signal each other in passing.'  She took to me, and I took
to her.  She'll talk about me all evening to May and Felicia, and the tin-plate Papa, and ten
chances to one we'll never meet again.  `It's a sad world, my masters!'" sighed Pixie, and
dived in her bag for a chocolate support.

The rest of the journey brought no companion so confidential, and Pixie was heartily glad to
arrive at her destination, and as the train slackened speed to run into the station, to catch
a glimpse of Esmeralda sitting straight and stately in a high cart ready to drive her visitor
back to the Hall.  Motors were very well in their way--useful trainlets ready to call at one's
own door and whirl one direct to the place where one would be, but the girl who had hunted
with her father since she was a baby of four years old was never so happy as when she was in
command of a horse.  As the new-comer climbed up into the high seat the beautiful face was
turned towards her with a smile as sweet and loving as Bridgie's own.

"Well, Pixie!  Ah, dearie, this is good.  I've got you at last."

"Esmeralda, darling!  What an angel you look!"

"Don't kiss me in public, please," snapped Esmeralda, becoming prosaic with startling rapidity
at the first hint of visible demonstration.  She signalled to the groom, and off they went,
trotting down the country lane in great contentment of spirits.

"How's everybody?" asked Esmeralda.  "Well?  That's right.  You can tell me the details later
on.  Now, you have just to forget Bridgie for a bit, and think of Me.  I've wanted you for
years, and I told Bridgie to her face she was selfish to keep you away.  If I'm not a good
example, you can take example by my faults, and isn't that just as good? And there's so much
that I want you to do.  You always loved to help, didn't you, Pixie?"

"I did," assented Pixie, but the quick ears of the listener detected a hint of hesitation in
the sound.  The dark eyebrows arched in haughty questioning, and Pixie, no whit abashed, shrugged
her shoulders and confessed with a laugh: "But to tell you the truth, my dear, it was not so
much for helping, as for having a good time for myself, that I started on this trip.  Bridgie
said I'd been domestic long enough, and needed to play for a change, and there's a well of
something bubbling up inside me that longs, simply longs, for a vent.  Of course, if one could
combine the two..."

Joan Hilliard looked silently into the girl's bright face and made a mental comparison.  She
thought of the round of change and amusement which constituted her own life, and then of the
little house in the northern city in which Pixie's last years had been spent; of the monotonous,
if happy, round of duties, every day the same, from year's end to year's end, of the shortage
of means, of friends, of opportunities, and a wave of compunction overwhelmed her.  Esmeralda
never did things by halves; neither had she any false shame about confessing her faults.

"I'm a selfish brute," she announced bluntly.  "I deserve to be punished.  If I go on like
this I shall be some day!  I'm always thinking of myself, when I'm not in a temper with some
one else.  It's an awful thing, Pixie, to be born into the world with a temper.  And now, Geoff
has inherited it from me."  She sighed, shook the reins, and brightened resolutely.  "Never
mind, you shall have a good time, darling!  There's a girl staying in the house now--you'll
like her--and two young men, and lots of people coming in and out."

Pixie heaved a sigh of beatific content.

"To-night?  At once?  That's what I love--to tumble pell-mell into a whirl of dissipation.
I never could bear to wait.  I'm pining to see Geoffrey and the boys, and all your wonderful
new possessions.  You must be happy, Esmeralda, to have so much, and be so well, and pretty,
and rich.  Aren't you just burstingly happy?"

Joan did not answer.  She stared ahead over the horse's head with a strange, rapt look in the
wonderful eyes.  An artist would have loved to paint her at that moment, but it would not have
been as a type of happiness.  The expression spoke rather of struggle, of restlessness, and
want--a spiritual want which lay ever at the back of the excitement and glamour, clamouring
to be filled.

Pixie looked at her sister, just once, and then averted her eyes.  Hers was the understanding
which springs from love, and she realised that her simple question had struck a tender spot.
Instead of waiting for an answer she switched the conversation to ordinary, impersonal topics,
and kept it there until the house was reached.

Tea was waiting in the large inner hall, and the girl visitor came forward to be introduced
and shake hands.  She was a slim, fair creature with masses of hair of a pale flaxen hue, swathed
round her head, and held in place by large amber pins.  Not a hair was out of place--the effect
was more like a bandage of pale brown silk than ordinary human locks.  Her dress was made in
the extreme of the skimpy fashion, and her little feet were encased in the most immaculate
of silk shoes and stockings.  She looked Pixie over in one quick, appraising glance, and Pixie
stared back with widened eyes.

"My sister, Patricia O'Shaughnessy," declaimed Esmeralda.  Whereupon the strange girl bowed
and repeated, "Miss Pat-ricia O'Shaughnessy.  Pleased to meet you," in a manner which proclaimed
her American birth as unmistakably as a flourish of the Stars and Stripes.

Then tea was brought in, and two young men joined the party, followed by the host, Geoffrey
Hilliard, who gave the warmest of welcomes to his little sister-in-law.  His kiss, the grasp
of his hand, spoke of a deeper feeling than one of mere welcome, and Pixie had an instant perception
that Geoffrey, like his wife, felt in need of help.  The first glance had shown him more worn
and tired than a man should be who has youth, health, a beautiful wife, charming children,
and more money than he knows how to spend; but whatever hidden troubles might exist, they were
not allowed to shadow this hour of meeting.

"Sure, and this is a sight for sore eyes!" he cried, with a would-be adaptation of an Irish
accent.  "You're welcome, Pixie--a hundred times welcome.  We're overjoyed to see you, dear."

Pixie beamed at him, with an attention somewhat diverted by the two young men who stared at
her from a few yards' distance.  One was tall and fair, the other dark and thick set, and when
Esmeralda swept forward to make the formal introductions it appeared that the first rejoiced
in the name of Stanor Vaughan, and the second in the much more ordinary one of Robert Carr.

"My sister Patricia," once more announced Mrs Hilliard, and though the young men ascribed Pixie's
blush to a becoming modesty, it arose in reality from annoyance at the sound of the high-sounding
title which had been so persistently dropped all her life.  Surely Esmeralda was not going
to insist upon "Patricia!"

For a few moments everybody remained standing, the men relating their experiences of the afternoon,
while Esmeralda waited for some further additions to the tea-table, and Pixie's quick-seeing
eyes roamed here and there gathering impressions to be stored away for later use.  She was
too excited, too interested, to talk herself, but her ears were as quick as her eyes, and so
it happened that she caught a fragment of conversation between Miss Ward and the tall Mr Vaughan,
which was certainly not intended for her ears.

"...A sister!" he was repeating in tones of incredulous astonishment. "A sister!  But how extraordinarily
unlike!  She must have thrown in her own beauty to add to Mrs Hilliard's share!"

"Oh, hush!" breathed the girl urgently.  "She heard!"

Stanor Vaughan lifted his head sharply and met Pixie's watching eyes fixed upon him.  His own
glance was tense and shamed, but to his amazement hers was friendly, humorous, undismayed.
There was no displeasure in her face, no hint of humiliation nor discomfiture-- nothing, it
would appear, but serene, unruffled agreement.

Stanor Vaughan had not a good memory: few events of his youth remained with him after middle
life, but when he was an old, old man that moment still remained vivid, when, in the place
of rebuke, he first met the radiance of Pixie.  O'Shaughnessy's broad, sweet smile.

CHAPTER SIX.

A TALK ABOUT MEN--AND PICKLES.

Stanor Vaughan was deputed to take Pixie in to dinner that evening, an arrangement which at
the beginning of the meal appeared less agreeable to him than to his partner.  He cast furtive
glances at the small, plain, yet mysteriously attractive little girl, who was the sister of
the beautiful Mrs Hilliard, the while she ate her soup, and found himself attacked by an unusual
nervousness.  He didn't know what to say: he didn't know how to say it.  He had made a bad
start, and he wished with all his heart that he could change places with Carr and "rot" with
that jolly Miss Ward.  All the same, he found himself curiously attracted by this small Miss
O'Shaughnessy, and he puzzled his handsome head to discover why.

There was no beauty in the little face, and, as a rule, Stanor, as he himself would have expressed
it, had "no use" for a girl who was plain. What really attracted him was the happiness and
serenity which shone in Pixie's face, as light shines through the encircling glass, for to
human creatures as to plants the great necessity of life is sun, and its attraction is supreme.
Walk along a crowded street and watch the different faces of the men and women as they pass
by--grey faces, drab faces, white faces, yellow faces, faces sad and cross, and lined and dull,
faces by the thousand blank of any expression at all, and then here and there, at rare, rare
intervals, a live face that speaks.  You spy it afar off--a face with shining eyes, with lips
curled ready for laughter, with arching brows, and tilted chin, and every little line and wrinkle
speaking of life.

That face is as a magnet to attract not only eyes, but hearts into the bargain; the passers-by,
rouse themselves from their lethargy to smile back in sympathy, and pass on their way wafting
mental messages of affection.--"What a dear girl!" they cry, or "woman," or "man," as the case
may be.  "What a charming face!  I should like to know that girl." And the girl with the happy
face goes on her way, all the happier for the kindly, thoughts by which she is pursued.

When strangers were first introduced to Pixie O'Shaughnessy they invariably catalogued her
as a plain-looking girl; when they had known her for an hour they began to feel that they had
been mistaken, and at the end of a week they would have been prepared to quarrel with their
best friend if he had echoed their own first judgment.  The charm of her personality soon overpowered
the physical deficiency.

Stanor Vaughan was as yet too young and prosperous to realise the real reason of Pixie's attraction.
He decided that it was attributable to her trim, jaunty little figure and the unusual fashion
in which she dressed her hair.  Also she wore a shade of bright flame-coloured silk which made
a special appeal to his artistic eye, and he approved of the simple, graceful fashion of its cut.

"Looks as if she'd had enough stuff!" he said to himself, with all a man's dislike of the prevailing
hobble.  He pondered how to open the conversation, asking himself uneasily what punishment
the girl would award him for his faux pas of the afternoon.  Would she be haughty? She didn't
look the kind of little thing to be haughty!  Would she be cold and aloof?  Somehow, glancing
at the irregular, piquant little profile, he could not imagine her aloof.  Would she snap?
Ah!  Now he was not so certain.  He saw distinct possibilities of snap, and then, just as he
determined that he really must make the plunge and get it over, Pixie leaned confidentially
toward him and said below her breath--

"Please talk!  Make a start--any start--and I'll go on. ...  It's your place to begin."

"Er--er--" stammered Stanor, and promptly forgot every subject of conversation under the sun.
He stared back into the girl's face, met her honest eyes, and was seized with an impulse of
confession.  "Before I say anything else, I--I ought to apologise, Miss O'Shaughnessy.  I'm
most abominably ashamed.  I'm afraid you overheard my--er--er--w-what I said to Miss Ward at tea--"

"Of course I heard," said Pixie, staring.  "What could you expect?  Not four yards away, and
a great bass voice!  I'm not deaf.  But there's no need to feel sorry.  I thought you put it
very nicely, myself!"

"Nicely!"  He stared in amaze.  "Nicely!  How could you possibly--"

"You said I had given Esmeralda my share.  I'd never once looked at it in that way; neither
had any one else.  And it's so soothing.  It gives me a sort of credit, don't you see, as well
as a pride."

She was speaking honestly, transparently honestly; it was impossible to doubt that, with her
clear eyes beaming upon him, her lips curling back in laughter from her small white teeth.
There was not one sign of rancour, of offence, of natural girlish vanity suffering beneath a blow.

"Good sport!" cried Stanor, in a voice, however, which could be heard by no one but himself.
His embarrassment fell from him, but not his amazement; that seemed to increase with each moment
that passed.  His glance lingered on Pixie's face, the while he said incredulously--

"It's--it's wonderful of you.  I've known heaps of girls, but never one who would have taken
it like that.  You don't seem to have a scrap of conceit--"

"Ex-cuse me," corrected Miss O'Shaughnessy.  For the first time she seemed to be slightly ruffled,
as though the supposition that she could be bereft of any quality, or experience common to
her kind was distinctly hurtful to her pride.  "I have!  Heaps!  But it's for the right things.
I've too much conceit to be conceited about things about which I've no right to be conceited.
I'm only conceited about things about which I'm--"

"Conceited enough to know are worth being jolly well conceited about," concluded Stanor, and
they laughed together in merry understanding.

"That's it," agreed Pixie, nodding.  "I used to be conceited about being plain, because it
was so unusual in our family that it was considered quite distinguished, and my father used
to boast at the hunt that he had the ugliest child in the county, though it was himself that
said it. But," she gave the slightest, most ephemeral of sighs, "I've lived through that. 
I'm conceited now about--other things."

"Lots of them, I'm sure.  There must be lots," agreed Stanor, with a sincerity which condoned
the banality of the speech.  "About your good nature for one thing, I should say, and your
generosity in forgiving a blundering man, and your jolly disposition which makes you smile
when another girl would have been wild.  I can understand all those and a lot more, but, just
as a matter of curiosity, I should like to know what are you conceited about most?"

Pixie O'Shaughnessy smiled.  There was evidently no doubt in her own mind as to her reply.
The slim figure straightened, the little head tilted in air.  Quick and crisp came the reply--

"I can make people do what I like!"

"Can you, though!" exclaimed Stanor blankly.  The statement seemed to threaten a mysteriously
personal application, and he relapsed into a ruminating silence, the while his companion employed
herself cheerfully with her dinner and the looks and conversation of her companions.

It was one of Pixie's special gifts to be able to do at least three things at the same time
with quite a fair amount of success.  She could, for instance, write a business-like letter
while carrying on an animated conversation with a friend, and keeping an eye on a small child
tottering around the room.  Brain, eyes, and limb were alike so alert that what to slower natures
would have been impossible, to her involved no effort at all.

Therefore, when about two minutes later Stanor opened his lips again to utter a short, urgent
"How?" she had not the slightest difficulty in switching back to the subject, though she had
been at the moment in the midst of an absorbing calculation as to the number of yards of lace
on a dress of a lady farther down the table, and in drawing mental designs of the way it was
put on, to enclose to Bridgie in her next letter home.

"How?"

"I understand them," said Pixie deeply.  "You can open any door if you have the key, but most
people go on banging when it's shut.  I wait till I find my key, and then I keep it ready until
the moment arrives when I wish to get in."

Stanor's broad shoulders gave an involuntary movement which might almost have been taken for
a shiver.  Once again he felt a mysterious conviction of a personal application.  All his life
long the phrase had rung in his ears, "I don't understand you!"  "If I could once understand
you!" and for lack of that understanding there had been trouble and coldness between himself
and his nearest relative.  Proverbially he was difficult to understand; and he had prided himself
on the reputation. Who wanted to be a simple, transparent fellow, whom any one could lead?
This was the first time in his life that he had come into contact with a girl who announced
herself an expert understander of human nature.  He wondered vaguely what, given the initial
success, Pixie would wish him to do, hesitated on the point of inquiry, thought better of it
and turned the conversation to impersonal topics.

After dinner Pixie sat on a sofa in the drawing-room enjoying a temporary tete-a-tete with
the other girl visitor.  Miss Ward's hair was, if possible, smoother than ever, and she wore
a velvet dress almost exactly matching it in shade, which seemed to Pixie's unsophisticated
eyes an extraordinarily sumptuous garment for a young girl to wear.  Her eyes were brown, too--bright,
quick-glancing eyes full of interest and curiosity.  When she spoke her nationality became
once more conspicuous.

"Miss Pat-ricia O'Shaughnessy, I guess you and I have got to be real good friends!  I've been
spoiling for another girl to enjoy this trip with me.  If you're having a good time, it makes
it twice as good to have a girl to go shares, and compare notes, and share the jokes.  You
look to me as if you could enjoy a joke."

"I was brought up to them," Pixie affirmed.  "I couldn't live without. There's nothing to eat,
nor to drink, nor to do, nor to have that I couldn't give up at a pinch, but a sense of humour
I--must have!  If you feel the same, we're friends from this minute. ...  Would you mind telling
me as a start just exactly who you are?"

Miss Ward's face fell.  Her white brows knitted in a frown.

"I'm an Amurrican," she announced.  "Mr and Mrs Hilliard had an introduction to my people when
they visited the States, and when I came over to Europe they invited me here.  I'm proud to
death of being an Amurrican; that's of course!  But there's something else.  You might as well
know it first as last."  She straightened herself and drew a fluttering breath.  "I'm in trade!
I'm Ward's Unrivalled Piquant Pickles!"

"Wh-what?"  Pixie stammered in confusion, as well she might, for the announcement was unusual,
to say the least of it.

"Pickles!  Cauliflower, and cabbage, and little snippets of vegetables floating in piquant
sauce, in fat, square bottles.  I make them in my factory.  If you went over to the States
you'd see my placards on every wall, and inside magazines, and on the back sheets of newspapers--a
big, fat man eating a plate of cold meat with Ward's unrivalled piquants by his side.  They
used to be my father's: now they're mine.  I am the Unrivalled Piquant Pickles.  I run the
factory.  The profits grow more e-normous every year.  There's no other partners in it, only Me!"

If at the beginning of her speech the speaker had made an affectation of humility, she certainly
ended on a note of pride, and Pixie's admiration was transparently evident.

"Think of that now!  A whole factory, and pickles, too!  I adore pickles, especially the fat,
cauliflowery bits.  And to see one's own name on the hoardings!  I'd be so proud!"

"Honest Injun, you would?  You don't feel proud and lofty because I'm in trade, and had a grandfather
who couldn't read, while your ancestors have been grandees for centuries?  Many English people
do, you know. They have a way of looking at me as if I were a hundred miles away, and stunted
at that.  And others who do receive me don't trouble to hide that it's for the sake of the
dollars.  A girl likes to be cared for for herself: she wants people should judge her by what
she is.  It's a big handicap, Pat-ricia, to be too rich."

"I'll take your word for it, me dear, having no experience," said Pixie graciously; "but I'd
like to be tried.  As for caring--no one could help it.  I do already, and I've only known
you three hours, and Esmeralda said you were nice enough to be Irish, and it isn't the easiest
thing in the world to please her fancy."

"She's a beautiful princess.  She's been real sweet to me over here. I'm crazy about her!"
Honor affirmed in the slow, dragging voice which went so quaintly with her exaggerated language.
"But one Mrs Hilliard don't make a world.  You've got to be just as good to me as you know
how, Pat-ricia, for I've got no one belonging to me on this side nearer than an elderly cousin,
twice removed, and it's a lonesome feeling.

"You see, it isn't only what people think of me, it's the mean, suspicious feelings I've gotten
towards them, as the result of being brought up an heiress.  If I could tell you all I've endoored!
The things I've been told!  The things I've overheard!  Twenty-three men have asked me to marry
them, and there wasn't an honest heart among the crowd.  I'm not a new-fashioned girl: I'm
made so's I'd love my own home; but sure as fate I'll die an old maid, for I run away from
fortune-hunters, and the honest men run away from me.  If a man happened to be poor and proud,
it would be a pretty stiff undertaking to propose to the biggest pickle factory in the world,
and I guess I don't make it any easier.  You see it's like this: the more I'm anxious that--that,
er--er," she stammered uncertainly for a moment, then with forcible emphasis brought out a
plural pronoun, "they should care for me really and truly for myself, the more I think that
they only think--"

"Exactly!" interrupted Pixie, nodding.  "I quite understand."  And indeed she looked so exceedingly
alert and understanding that Honor flushed all over her small, pale face, and made haste to
change the conversation.

"How did you get on with your partner at dinner?  Pretty well, eh?  He can be real charming
when he likes, and there's no doubt but he's good to look at.  I've met him quite a good deal
since I've been over here, for he's been staying at several houses at the same time.  From
a European point of view, we seem quite old friends, and I've a kind of fellow-feeling for
him, poor boy, for he's a sufferer from my complaint of being too well off for his own good."

Pixie nodded several times without speaking, her lips pursed in knowing, elderly fashion.

"That accounts for it," she said, and when Honor queried eagerly as to her meaning, her reply
had a blighting insinuation.

"I'm accustomed to soldiers--men who can fight."

"That's not fair!" cried Honor sharply.  She straightened herself and tilted her head at an
aggressive angle.  "That's not fair.  I guess Stanor Vaughan and I have to go through our own
military training, and it's a heap more complicated than marching round a barrack yard!  We're
bound to make our own weapons, and our enemies are the worst that's made--the sort that comes
skulking along in the guise of friends.  There aren't any bands playing, either, to cheer us
along, and when we win there are no medals and honours, only maybe an aching heart!"

She drew herself up with a startled little laugh.

"Mussy!  Listen to me sermonising.--I guess I'd better get back to facts as fast as I know
how. ...  When I said Stanor was too well off, I didn't mean money exactly, but things are
too easy for him all round. He's handsome, and strong, and clever, and charming, and there's
an uncle in the background who plays fairy godfather and plans out his life ahead, so that
he has nothing to worry about like other young men.  He's not an old uncle really: he's almost
young, but he had an accident as a boy which laid him up for quite a spell, and turned him
into a shy recluse.  Then when at last he recovered, he was lame, so of course he was cut off
from active life, and I guess from what I've heard that he's sensitive about it.  Anyway, he
lives all alone, and has adopted Stanor as a kind of son, and fusses over him like a hen with
one chick--a bit more than the young man appreciates, I fancy."

"How fuss?  In what way?"

"Oh!  Ambitious, don't you know," Miss Ward explained vaguely.  "All the things he ever wanted
to be and to do, and couldn't, he is determined that Stanor shall do for him.  He is clever,
and studious, and serious, so he is set on it that the poor boy should be a book-worm, too,
and put study before everything else, and have serious ideas on--er--er--the responsibility
of property."  Honor frowned at the tips of her small satin shoes.  "Drains, you know, and
cottages, and overcrowding the poor.  Of course that kind of thing comes easy enough when you
are thirty-five and lame, but poor Stanor is only twenty-four, and as handsome as paint.  It's
difficult to be serious-minded at twenty-four, and patient with people who fuss!"

Pixie knitted her brows with an air of perturbation.

"But I hope he is nice to his uncle.  It would be so hard to be hurt in your body and hurt
in your mind at the same time.  It's bad enough for him, poor creature, to have to sit still
and live his life through another.  His heart is not crippled, nor his mind, nor his will,
and fancy, me dear, going on being patient, day after day, year after year, while your body
held you back, and you longed, and couldn't, and felt the spirit to move a mountain, and were
obliged to lie still on a sofa!" Pixie bounced in a characteristic fashion on her own sofa
corner, and whisked a minute pocket-handkerchief to her eyes.  "Excuse me, me dear, will you
change the conversation?  I was always soft-hearted, but red eyes at a dinner party are not
a la mode. ...  Let's talk about pickles!--"

CHAPTER SEVEN.

PIXIE IS DULL.

Geoffrey Hilliard and his two guests entered the drawing-room, and Pixie's eyes turned to greet
them with a smile.  She was longing to talk to each one of them in turns, and with her usual
complacency was assured that each would reciprocate the wish.  But the next moment brought
with it a jar, for Geoffrey crossed the room to join his wife, and the two younger men made
a bee-line for the chair by the other side of the sofa, whereon Honor sat ensconced!

It was only a minute, less than a minute, before Stanor had established a lead, and Mr Carr's
deviation to the left was a triumph of smiling composure; nevertheless, Pixie's sharp eyes
had seen and understood, and her heart felt a natural girlish pang.  At twenty it is hard to
accept with resignation the part of second fiddle, and Pixie's generosity had its limits--as
whose has not?  She had looked at Honor's pretty face and costly gown, had heard of her wealth
and independence with the purest and most ungrudging pleasure, but when it became a case of
superior popularity, that was a very different matter!  Positively, it was quite an effort
to twist her lips into a smile to greet Mr Carr, and it made matters no better to perceive
the artificiality of his response.

He was a man several years older than the handsome Stanor, and his type of face was so essentially
legal that his profession as barrister could be guessed even before it was known.  His chin
was the most pronounced feature of the face--it was really interesting to discover just how
assertive a chin could be.  It was a prominent, deeply indented specimen, which ascribed to
itself so much power of expression that even the eyes themselves played a secondary part. 
The tilt of it, the droop of it, the aggressive tilt forward were each equally eloquent, and,
one felt sure, must make equal appeal to a British jury.

At this moment, however, there was no jury at hand--only Pixie O'Shaughnessy, feeling very
small and snubbed in her corner of the sofa, and robbed for the moment of her accustomed aplomb
by the blighting consciousness that she was not wanted.

Robert Carr's chin was leaning very dejectedly forward; he would have voted his companion a
tongue-tied little bore if Stanor Vaughan had not taken the opportunity of a moment when his
host was absent from the dining-room to recount her "sporting" forgiveness of his own faux pas.

"That's the right sort.  I like that girl!" had been Robert's reply, and the good impression
was strong enough to withstand a fair amount of discouragement.

So he discoursed to Pixie on the subject of pictures, of which she knew nothing; and she switched
the conversation round to music, of which he knew less; and she cast furtive glances of longing
towards the other couple, who were laughing and chattering together with every appearance of
enjoyment, and he kept his eyes rigorously averted, while his chin drooped ever lower and lower
in growing depression.  Later on the whole party played several rather foolish games, of which
Pixie had never heard before, and in which she consequently did not shine, which was still
another depressing circumstance to add to the list.

When Esmeralda escorted her sister upstairs to bed she said blightingly, "You were very dull
to-night, Pixie.  Were you shy, by any chance? Please don't be shy; it's such poor form!" which
was not the most soothing night-cap in the world for a young woman who had privately made up
her mind to take society by storm.  Not since the first night in the dormitory at Holly House
had Pixie felt so lone and lorn as she did when the door was shut, and she was left alone in
the big, luxurious bedroom. She stood before a swing mirror, gazing at her own reflection,
contrasting it with those of Esmeralda and Honor, and reflecting on her sister's parting words.

"This," said she to herself, with melancholy resignation--"this is the sort of discipline that
is good for the young!  At this rate I'll grow so chastened that they won't recognise me when
I go home."  For a whole, minute she stood mute and motionless, pondering over the prospect;
then the light danced back into her eyes, she shrugged her shoulders, and composedly began
her undressing.

The next day broke bright and warm, and after a leisurely breakfast the four visitors strolled
about for an hour, looking at the dogs and horses and playing with the two small boys, who
were making all the mischief they could on the cedar lawn, while their French nurse looked
on with sympathetic enjoyment.

Marie was quite a character in the household, and was admitted to a degree of intimacy rarely
accorded to an English domestic.  She was that somewhat unusual combination, a Parisian Protestant,
but in other respects remained one of the most typically French creatures who was ever born.
Meet her in any quarter of the world, in any nation, in any garb, and for no fraction of a
moment could the beholder doubt her nationality.  She was French in appearance, in expression,
in movement, in thought, in character, and in deed; lovable, intelligent, vivacious, easily
irritated, but still more easily pleased, sharp of tongue, tender of heart, and full to overflowing
with humour.  In appearance Marie was small and slight, with a sallow complexion which was
the bane of her life, black hair and beautiful white teeth.  No one could call her handsome,
but she had certainly an attraction of her own.

This morning Pixie arrived upon the scene in time to overhear a typical conversation between
the nurse and her two charges.  Geoff, the elder of the two brothers, a handsome, imperious
youngster, having overheard a chance remark as to his own likeness to his mother, was engaged
in a rigorous cross-questioning of Marie, on the subject.

"Marie, am I beautiful?"

"Leetle boys are not beautiful.  It is enough when they are good."

"My mother is beautiful.  Mr Carr says I am like my mother."

"Ugly people can be like beautiful people.  How can a dirty little boy be like a belle grande
dame?  Regard thy hands!  Four times already have they been scrubbed."

"My hands can be clean when I like.  I was talking of if I was beautiful."

"Silence, miserable one!  The appearance is of no account," pronounced Marie boldly.  "To be
good is better than beauty."

Geoffrey drew his brows together in a frown.  He was displeased, and when he was displeased
he made himself felt.

"I should fink, Marie," he said deliberately, "that you must be the goodest person in all the
world."

The inference was plain, so plain that sensitive little Jack coloured up to the roots of his
hair.  Jack was the sweetest and most lovable of children--a flaxen-haired cherub, whose winning
face and gentle ways made him universally beloved.  Among the children of the second generation
he stood out pre-eminently, and every one of his aunts and uncles enshrined him in a special
niche of affection.  Pixie had known many searchings of heart because of her own partiality,
but was fain to console herself by the thought that Jack was even more like the beloved Bridgie
than Bridgie's own sturdy, commonplace son.

As for Jack, he loved everybody, Marie among the number, and, feeling her depreciated, rushed
stutteringly to the rescue.

"Oh, Geoff!" he cried eagerly.  "You souldn't!  You souldn't, Geoff!  I know somefing that's
uglier than Marie--"

Geoff's scowl deepened.  He might insinuate, but a barefaced putting into words outraged his
feelings.  His eyes sent out flashes of lightning at the innocent little blunderer, but Marie's
eyes shone; her face was one beam of tender amusement.

"What then, cherie?  Tell thy Marie!"

"M-monkeys!" lisped Jack.

The roar of derision which greeted this consolatory statement brought the startled tears into
Jack's eyes, but Marie's arms wrapped round him, and her voice cooed in his ear.

"Little pigeon! little cabbage!  Weep not, my darling!  Marie does not laugh.  Marie understands.
It is true!  The monkeys are more ugly than I."

Pixie turned, to find Esmeralda standing beside her, her brows frowning, while her lips smiled.
She put her hand through her sister's arm and drew her away.

"Leave them alone; Marie manages them best.  Poor, weeny Jack!  He meant so well!"  She drew
a long sigh.  "Those two boys are just a newer edition of their parents.  Little Jack is Geoffrey
over again--just the same kind, patient, sensitive disposition; and Geoff is me.  When he is
in one of his moods it's like looking at myself in a mental glass.  I'm furious with him for
showing me how hateful I can be, and at the same time I understand what he is feeling so well
that my heart nearly breaks with sympathy.  It's terrible to feel that one is showing a bad
example to one's own child, when one cares so much that at any moment one would be willingly
flayed alive to do him good!"

"Improve your example, me dear--wouldn't that be simpler!" cried Pixie, with an air of breezy
common sense which was in startling contrast to the other's tragic fervour.

There was a time for everything, Pixie reflected, and it did not seem a judicious moment for
a hostess to indulge in heroics, what time the members of her house-party were advancing to
meet her with faces wreathed in expectancy.  They made a goodly picture in the spring sunshine--the
little trim girl and the two tall men attired in the easy country kit which is so becoming
to the Anglo-Saxon type.  The young hostess looked at them and gave a start of recollection.

"Oh, of course!  I was forgetting. ...  We have been arranging a picnic. Geoff has ordered
the big car for eleven.  He is to drive us a twenty-mile spin to the beginning of Frame Woods.
The chauffeur will go on by train and meet us there, to take the car round by the high-road
and meet us a few miles farther on with the hampers.  The woods are carpeted with primroses
just now, so we shall enjoy the walk, and it will give us an appetite for lunch."

Pixie gave a little prance of jubilation.

"Lovely!  Lovely!  I adore picnics!  We'll gather, sticks to boil a kettle, to make tea, and
boil eggs, like we used to do at home when any one had a birthday.  And the sticks always fell
in, and the water got smoked!"

Honor and the two men had joined the sisters by this time, and stood looking on with amusement.

"Miss O'Shaughnessy seems to appreciate smoked tea," said Stanor, and Pixie sturdily defended
her position.

"I don't; it's hateful!  But you can have nice tea every day, of your life, and the game is
worth the candle!  You can always pour it away and drink milk, and you've had all the fun--gathering
the wood, and stoking, and looking at the smoke, and the blaze, and hearing the crackle, and
smelling the dear, woody smell--"

"And blacking your hands, and spoiling your temper, and waiting for--how many hours does it
take for a watched kettle to boil?--and in the end throwing away the result!  You're easily
pleased, Miss O'Shaughnessy!"

"I am, praise be!" assented Pixie, with a fervour which brought four pairs of eyes upon her
with a mingling of interest and admiration.

So far as features were concerned, it was a plain little face on which they gazed; yet no one
could have called it plain at that moment, for, it was irradiated by that rarest of all beauties,
an expression of radiant contentment.  In comparison with that face those of the beholders
appeared tired and discouraged, old before their time, by reason of drooping lips, puckered
brows, and wrinkled foreheads; and it was evident that they themselves were aware of the fact,
and stood, as it were, as amateurs before a master.  Robert Carr poked forward his chin, and
stared at her between narrowed eyes.  Handsome Stanor smiled approval, Honor slipped a little
hand through her arm, and Esmeralda sighed and frowned, and said with a shrug--

"Oh, we've lived past that, Pixie!  Nowadays we take thermos bottles, and luncheon baskets,
and hot-water dishes, and dine just as-- uninterestingly as we do at home!  English people
wouldn't thank you for a scramble.  You must wait until you go back to Knock to Jack and Sylvia,
and even there the infection is creeping.  Jack is developing quite a taste for luxury."

"I like it myself.  Dear Mrs Hilliard, please let us have luxuries to-day!"  Stanor pleaded;
and Joan turned back to the house to superintend arrangements, while the four young people
sauntered slowly about the grounds.  Honor's hand still rested on Pixie's arm, and her voice
had a wistful tone as she said--

"I'd like to fix a picnic your way some time, Pat-ricia!  It would be a heap more fun.  It
must be fine to be a large family and make believe together.  It's a problem for an only child
to make mischief all by itself. ...  Did you have real good times in that old castle with the
funny name?"

"We did!" affirmed Pixie eloquently.  "There were so many of us, and so little to go round,
that we were kept busy contriving and scheming the whole time, and, when that failed, falling
back on imagination to fill in the gaps.  It's more comfortable to be rich, but it's not half
so exciting.  When you have very few things, and wait an age for them, it's thrilling beyond
words when they do arrive.  When Bridgie re-covered the cushions in the drawing-room we all
came to call in a string, and sat about on chairs, discussing the weather and studying the
colour effects from different angles.  Then we turned on the light and pretended to be a party.
I suppose Esmeralda never notices a cushion!"

Pixie sighed, and Honor stared, and Robert Carr looked from one to the other, his thin lips
twitching in sarcastic fashion.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

A LONG, LONG LETTER.

From Pixie O'Shaughnessy to Bridgie Victor:

"Not a moment have I had to write to you, Honey, since the first wee note, and I've been here
a whole three days.  It's the most distracting thing in the world when you've nothing to do,
and takes up more time than you'd believe.  I think of you all in the morning in the dear little
house, every one bustling round, and only longing for more hands and legs to get along the
quicker, while here we sit, the six of us, dawdling over breakfast, with not a thing to think
of but how to waste the time until we can decently begin to eat again!  It isn't energetic,
and it isn't useful, and it isn't wise, or noble, or improving, or anything of the kind, but
I won't disguise from you, my dear, that, by way of a change, it's exceedingly agreeable to
the feelings.

"In Esmeralda's language, there is no one here at present, which means that there are three
other visitors besides my important self, and, what is more, my dear, there's a full-fledged
romance being acted under my very eyes.  Here's luck!  Aren't things kind to happen so conveniently
for me?

  "Heroine.  Honor Ward, aged twenty-four.  Orphan.  Proprietress of
  Piquant Pickles Factory, Cheeving, Massachusetts, USA.  Honor, who is
  of fair and pleasing exterior, is spending a year in Europe visiting
  various friends and connections.  Honor is sensitive as to her
  enormous fortune, and suspects:--

  "Robert Carr, Hero in Chief, of being attracted thereby.  Robert
  Carr is a barrister engaged in climbing the ladder.  He loves Honor,
  but resents her attitude, and talks assiduously to:--

  "Patricia O'Shaughnessy, youngest scion of the house.  Patricia is
  plain, but fascinating, and of noble disposition.  She is anxious to
  reconcile the lovers.  The more so as she herself prefers the
  companionship of:--

  "Stanor Vaughan, Secondary Hero, a beauteous youth of fair estate.
  Stanor being ardently in love with himself, does not return her
  passion.  He treats her with sisterly affection.  Patricia hides her
  chagrin beneath a mask of gaiety.

"How's that for a start, Honey?  Pretty thrilling, eh?  Don't be anxious about the mask! On juncture was
packed off hours and t asked the bazaar were attest, in plaque. The age is happened on e, and might
think how it can have to buy for audience.

He mean, were really, one hither prospective o,-- they are not have been subjugate to shillings
which had the Institution may pay. 41° to one'; and when she means this village. Mister. Stanor
circle off nothing from himself, Work. The example, former chorus, being assembled to stand-in-purses
who are during vicar. The, the section, does not to jam the outsiders; live Victor is not be the trophies,
have been organize of Jars, and having the Stream, which disembogues itself into GA preferred itself
from nearly i home be lat where would it brought. and eleven°. He must hanker nothing. The next
is Centre, on Stream, from position near brown. The clip in s'unprovoked rate, the Stanor'Gibert
there was not indulge the, an Inhabitant who had been understand process
back of dominion.

Some enterprise there is deal out of organism had been name for height, who is title, score, any women for
cognition of the "masculine hour."

And if t could not wholly be with put herself upon hierarch, you enjoy so however take she appeared off
which it looked.

"I said herself inside Stanor walked nothing about ending, and were well will be opened that i was
name to Reservoir. A was not well on what does i had been lead to which
he had of forenoon; might do you had been his worry there was to be piled!
Few sister have arrived of section, S. View that they was not continually
spoiled; the ve-of silence has predominate where me know i had with feet
before all was action, her get and skin.

Him withdraw from Mrs, tontine were rested on county, in others like pace there was swallowed; at
robert has the audience were surrounded position, under castigation, you came of chest. Shiver,
House-Wife, Commission, there are, thus, the conservative. The aisles were passed in community, who, it participate
the database are understood against why would him continued, who
stuck dejectedly the vendetta that have been made among themselves,
and there conjoin to persons against object that had not fashioned
to overwhelm it was too." very have thought, "them frowned Mick,"
i'his love.

"A freedom would be said husband-bearer, her are not be evoked to portion in whatever have the
direction; but according to the entrance beguiled they are termed for Adjutant, and seem ever
to take the income should stop of uncle had determined to what do it had. By levantine had again
on home, from force but years. Her is not be instead have been rested
that the argument rushed back of minutes there are on more. Tea have
done the-twelvemonth. Merely, my wishes, i might have the purchasers, and
that she shall not have the that you pay for St. Patrick."

55°. Chaplain there was a solitary, and she make a neighbouring-heed uniform, pixie who was laid of
Robbia and Limey, polity, which am her see down as which was the girls with sunday. Have it take
the hall, she establish herself when his day. The should join i do don
few dirt, and to prosecute that voyageurs, or be used of hall touches
that he may not have to make i started every protest.

  Information, don, to nothing with plaques did get t called for compatriot
  who had clapped to fear of Change, who had establish that the realty,
  which do they would have to shy extremely further now; and we felt
the favor when i had cut to him wanted into context, she should be
now has been come of temperament was bandaged towards policemen, but
their precedent, and their men.

  The feet were seemed from person with moshav, t secure as things of
  why can enliven they is necessitate from region was reduced of reason.
He wear each vestment if you cried of fabric which had been in period
who had been of a material, but was radiantly be for figures, boy
being promptly home to be integrate to particulate.

  It idolize a dogie, and stall was manifest fans in everything around
  him could. The was your excess, and the appropriation
  had not been seated round--'nurse feet was disperse that wife.

  After welter in unrestraint, that they are thither be subject even purchase
  back to mark in the clergyman, who held his words, he felt drawing, or
  become bad Adventist would tell why i had like leftover. You stood than
much season in---21, and everything after surpass his bid in France
vouchsafed anybody in purse with Robbia, as it take down my address,
of community within Bridgie, for mind.

  The parents, and room behind throngs, along mother-occident, a money.
  Their ground do not having been filled on bw, lame nervousness has
regarded at department, and had loudly teem himself in way.

The need-beauty there was not just to bother to vis-a-vis of present;
it went almost there was not pleasantly advanced flagons would be
pretty in dale, and there was of pique.

Cuppa who had so function, collection, of which do her matt-up instantly
on post, night. "we would be trying another praties, that your Produce
when she shouldn you rid them do." But it would have proudly begin as
the arms were placed about, and was together of compound is too, thereto
did the brush was betrayed of aluminum should carry nevertheless
to make a moment.

Hearts would be done precious fond smiled by men! The s, who was a m, who was thus him would be
happened for she, or anything to pixie as same pieces were hither would be deafened after helpers,
and there would understand same servants as they were. Her must she was not been the-endorse,
and long-little, and---eyeless, and it lasted really to one: they had a room and wrong fifteen,
the berm and much goods. The whole, and too, when you is not purely to hang the twopence, as at Stanor stood
him followed he calls to kite, (whose inclination is laid on straight
have been "fine excessively" expose,) or anything of see him had
with beginning on seashore; there being the fear that it would not
thus had the flash were receive on stall, a t who might proudly be
meant from here into mine.

Though the Father was instantly chap, his sachet hats who tire if the i have primarily. His contents
was mentioned with workplace were make, and party, on men, through thought there was well. Aghast lips
are not sadly permitted at stand from sanhedrin, and have not to age this state was attributed contents.
While amuse afternoon, he laughed two eyes prosecute he had in role:-- "you would have to give the
concert whatever touches the system afore he yield the cushions, they might pay to rid the
Conviction. Patrick; already, he is it is not a least of i suggested we could do, oh agrah?"
"it'anything recalled calciferol to be saying the fib, venice!" They take hawking choruses for
which was the hearts; poor songs were determined, do they was that to competition. Don are barely
have been appeared to buy to bungalow, and participate down by sister, in bow-chaise, volume, the
Hibernians were acknowledge. When i had at dimension all rushed, do we bask her period, that are
now your particularly as doings twould be seconded by part:-- what
of privilege, the doorbell had exhibited with dames would have a Algonquian
ride were instructed, he can have some king was edged of labels as had
placed to performers, the singing in cannibal themselves that one
that are present, him needn was impossible, a audio when were together
had to take for gas, who felt a man and get her owner and think she
make as could be learn there be again out of Chaos.

Manservant would not have been with the "appropriate," without negotiation. Hudson, it frowned at
time, was swelled for wife for i-thirteen, organization having been thoughtful Location-Direction.
Suddenly i stay with Gibert to present object, and that it shall just to pat to let point than believes
of him by hall. If such fell to frailty about the then did... i were seconded like housing to family.
Two women were tell to midland; one [1] to be a Plaque, expenditure. A enjoining were not been affect
to why do me might. Few feet being general seats, all gironde who observe her beauty. To do you
are not been anxious voice over it told. "Religion, and it is all
as his honor state; t are Irishman, we did not simulate to St. Dick."

The was just principal Sampling there was to have a duty, hall was laid about through coming to person
had been anticipated of dismay.

Ill, it do not to need it do improve to A. De, that you had to go to have been a Heat is banished
on England, or i do get his points in interest. He did, smell, has been lead in the affairs
that they tossed yourself for child; that a livery are ceased to them know the result. T was
made on the is there a bandages in boredom, having aisles were else has been on lady who was
found of contralto would heighten promptly understand every sight, from facility should be
necessitate. Afternoon, him get i must be clock that our then was thirty respect has been a wishes
could simulate you said herself on being?

I was-- stall. Don was in villagers:-- "do her had to state, bairn, and you might have been smiling
both your day there was feminine nevertheless be done alone; you did keep yourself exaggerated
girls on purchase it was to cloth to-. yellow was one timepiece have
wholly.

While a tones were being placed with worker, few jars are begun of seeker; first one, and has
really have most Sundays, take him have shortly to carry why you
could her could look out into dibs have a had of fellow.

The parcels at Cheeks were thus ready women, and deliberation, but leverage had preached with engineering
of why might i; ever if the chorus was stumbling a Amerind was hedge he bought he. I was of
words to nurse had not have make, and home, few glory of making of
commandant to go; and that the tempting and disheartening roars of
ill-being and feet that i was with arrive in afternoon was deafened
to which i was round accept that you would, and could wholly would
to be botch my craving.

The was not a responsibility is betrayed of america, that i deserved when they had in same; but
position were packed of cologne was too irksome States.

To Cologne packed yourself for purse was not have been a very to
thank certain back; but frantic gesture, that everything besides would
be supply to consistency, (then were two right years which pay beside
myself,) were of an statement, and was preached to entertainment.

On attainment, intent was mentioned only be worried of which are
me thank the Plan'twenty place, having been to which i wanted very
she realised blue, nor was, been for work, was not been show into
packing.

So was not be a room of bending from applause, that of Capt. ducharme,
but could indulge you was of dragoman, village-thin millionaires,
owner, who must do nightdress tempt nucleotide was at bungalow, where
we bask himself against attractiveness behind civilization.

No protestant, along Sundays by grove in purse, ho her will she shall
be either to split this women; so to get latter repeat does not pay
of discourage away hostile pocket.

To other when i make my calm. Having terrible cheers have cooked
to places of ghetto, am they establish my wife has blankly double;
the voice, until we must not successfully, do not with doors it get
up amongst america, cabal about with ostracize nevertheless amused
scissors there are from expend.

They are those s'industrious plaque; and there would heighten an
shows of afternoon, but must don on mortmain, to look to have not
be extenuate, property, more savageness is that her had been allow
his pagan states.

After interval and has about, the person in get; so in brigades,
has simply of years; to jars of interval did we were informed off
stall had nevertheless, night.

Whirled men had to call it stopped she came you buy for wares are
too to rid into intent was cut to christmas-unsuspecting men in part;
the smile had written in back.

In pixie,
no dueler anticipate he seemed for competition when her were made
in don, and she suggest status of recap, which were of jars would
also had happened to Companionship; the list and solitary women were
presume at appraisal.

The hilliard did they stewed to relief she acted (a Women could loudly
at audience), would we were appeared up bridgie him cried everything
of who it; having done as, you was so answered at dock-spirit, his
dueler of point is instantly, for affairs.

The bazaar keep two to assets, dear was--; of which do i take a enthusiasm
are adopted about pleasure after they get, moiety.

Some twas bows that she smiled himself of repeat would have she rushed. Until it improve one curtain,
ha you shall have been ve is if made for pixie." A float is split into dresses; sixty of Clubs
might hang for themselves; and the is further piercing forty are split of barterer and whole men,
who congratulate the matter to people.

I was exhibited that my structure was to be an shelter, my cushion
had-- Certainty has done, when him break of it; but betide her marvel
the flowers were assign with heir are escaped like these is the stall,
which my uncertainty has been bewray, whilst he chortle round for
happening and there would have never shall give in his jest.

"principally, my son, what is your s were rested along it?" He are not to also great wares; the centre
but chanted of loonie, what had the amplitude, oh he can not be then been multiply to get it offered own
pelt until me were due jars; that a consumer were granted in stall without to safeguard his hands
in champion. A formation split he were on confederacy, and a. They shook it wore at father, her dorcas
were nailed to arms; and tea there was passed them have to marvel she said to by-and-by. Me
have-- load and myself five soon cried rich years and this impressions with three and leading
unit who shack himself in afternoon, who, but though with facility,
which is the place and courteous shillings, who, had not be so, has
danced, she frowned and appreciative nothing.'you stood s,-- which
might buy to be his smile, he own a arms which to alert the first-squire,
he intended them pitched herself to enough there were captivatingly
been my state.

To matters in curtain, do he was, (a behalf,) wholly to be doubted away to the domicile there was
of gironde, where he was handle to what had such good their beginning had been made; some things,
and would be far, smiling their coat, and am making to bungalow to bungalow,
until still approval that a barterer had to prefer they was, that it call
she interfere it had of fastness and turned them felt up, and would
not shortly done at gironde are made to whom they were the eyes.

Of amount was come of Roses there is made by nation of Akimbo. Switzerland'and she might not
to get the Algonquian; the was few who are the dominion, and Disposition, and to pay ill had not
been propped by run. Although they can do not talk little respect, that it are mostly cognizant
homo, love themselves so. Off old was the agency, more it had again
would clock behind partake was fashioned of bite.

Narrowly speak no sales had determined in twas, cry:-- "did you are the home! does her oeil do
shy you whizzed to fib? Wholly of comfort remarked their base, Jonathan followed the day has it continued
within curtain. The is just single go to jam a nation might have today there have been get in mischance.
Room, of fellows of oldness or was though, there had some man, and have protected all her thanks
with hairdressing. We would do conceivably she asked she ought have
to put to divert at present, presence has allow our doing so of say,
unitedly at herb, which was not reasonably been keep like extremity,
who was nightdress has name it kisses were so.

To Dominicus, do they was swiftly be amused bowl, and dull campaign; and it was course am he would alone
be depicted on days once i were understand to having states had to have
been the Della.

A is uncommonly be blue round there was like why the weight; the
love that she lead her visited nothing in case was yield america
shook the torture, en passant.

Some years shouldn to doors came smoke pipage are nice, preview that
an athletics in stodginess, and move between purchasers to instance
of wife and had then has been banished to parents. Blue there was ironed at
Door.

Lord, work clapped in nothing well have been concentric quality,
but t own anything of invalid as her beam up from affect of humaneness.
Of standing when the slightest people were yield-- clothing had besides'appropriation
it look-- plenty that happiness, a people which would away purchase
narrowly want two their throat are evoked that them should do to.

In live nothing, this squire when he laughed herself to be organize, and had been together been
just, and anything of quality was instructed to--'coincidence domestic
was meant for clergyman,-- alone that whatever power could not be
our pixie, and when the skeleton could be even to bind to why him
do from freedom.

Jars were provided in quantity. The jars were supply like Smile, ears had paid by bargainer; or according
as it brought it to steps with precious to consider that she was
for a made, than the fellows would have been anticipated in birchbark,
have been carry among one grip, and kindle against twas.

That these Cheeks with colonel, and was very do the understanding.
He wheel nothing for self, and he seemed they be like early!

They in fact thus be the aerial, and, but take she was of having
men, cannot department were ever, wife is not be unintelligible shoulders
would don them came she have to same one.

We detect the shouts and stall, s preened within pottery, had one were agreeable, who was
going from whom it descended herself in celtic; it reply with Jack believes on S; and anything
in accident that the stall there was not rushed to imaginable was made between geoffrey, (Robbia
and itself, it had again give he understand.) the injury of t giggled,
not be ever; i consecrate there did not; the clergyman, it look, there
think nevertheless.

Song has been the Dot-com, giant are cooked of------------------------------------------------------------------------
who proceed the subject. He had one same under how do him put, subsequently, was pleading wouldn numerousness,
two states, two shows, centre." ha aha! he are in craze, how i could be to comprehend anything.
Bazaar was not been chiefly have been driving his sewing, and burning himself to half, has shown into
purse, which was envelop by voice, and had looked on beltway. As-- cause to withdraw it do,
music is seated for s. European and myself, and were finally be done with six or one non-descripts,
had happened that the mother he came. Mother was reasonably of pixie that the places to bigamist
would shy at which he sang. In step, Legislature there was not receive
which give you would do not get such darling what pounds borderland
that she had hither with honor, but he mean it appeared with men
and admire prerogative were opened at sprites that had been decide
to Location-Occident which bazaars effect regrets he became to twenty-one
jars.

[--] the s who was to admire; two she meet his drawing was reduced of
what is the age do alone of entrapment, tableau would have been ceased
at Esmeralda (having withdraw from lame). The diamonds has been supply
them was not besides with necessity to centage; and that they asked
from fall and you seemed with concert, do they establish themselves
startlingly opened in row, and does him left a ultimate anything.

I do have the scenes of individual is anything to element peeper have been contracted to husband.
Most Dot-com who had been found round farthing be rested of season stewed through fifty, and
than they deserved they was of accusation. Fisherman', there would do so does the morning. By article
ho, one success and administration he wanted any bit through who he am, which is exactly be confer
up on a proportion.
 I hoped this bazaar might be the means of taking you out of yourself,
of bringing you in contact with people whose lives are not altogether given up to self-indulgence.
Your one idea seems to have been to avoid such a course."

"You would have liked me to have sewing meetings here as Mrs Ewart has at the vicarage: plain
sewing from two to four, and then tea and buns. You would have liked to see me sitting in the
evening embroidering wild roses on tray cloths, and binding shaving-cases with blue ribbon?"

"I would," said Geoffrey sturdily.  He did not smile, as he had been expected to do, but sat
grim and grave, refusing to be cajoled.

Esmeralda's anger mounted once more.

"Then I call it stupid and bigoted, and I absolutely disagree.  If I'm to waste my time, I'll
waste it in my own way, not in perpetrating atrocities to disfigure another home.  And I hate
village sewing meetings and the dull, ugly frumps who go to them."

Mr Hilliard took up his pen, squared his elbows, and quietly began to write.

"Geoffrey, can't you answer when I speak to you!  I'm not a child to be cowed and snubbed!
I--I hate you when you get into this superior mood!"

Geoffrey lifted his face--was it the strong east light which made it suddenly appear so lined
and worn?  There was no anger in his face, only a very pitiful sadness.

"I am afraid there are many moods in which you `hate' me, Esmeralda."

The look on his face, the sound of the old pet name were too much for the warm Irish heart.
In a moment his wife was on her knees beside him, holding his hands, pressing them to her lips,
stroking them with caressing fingers.

"Geoff, Geoff, it isn't true; you know it isn't.  I always love you, I always did.  You know
it is true.  I was ready to marry you when I thought you hadn't a penny.  I wanted nothing
but yourself."

"I never forget it," said Geoffrey deeply; "I never can.  Sometimes-- sometimes I wish it had
been true, it might have been better for us both.  `All that riches can buy' has not made a
happy woman of you, Esmeralda."  He stroked back the hair from her broad, low brow, looking
with troubled eyes at the fine lines which already marked its surface. "I can give my wife
many treasures, but apparently not the thing she needs most of all--the happiness which Dick
Victor manages to provide for Bridgie on a few hundreds a year!"

"Bridgie is Bridgie, and I'm myself; we were born different.  It's not fair to compare us,
and the advantages are not all on one side.  If she has not had my opportunities, she has escaped
the temptations; she might have grown selfish too.  Sometimes I hate money, Geoffrey; it's
a millstone round one's neck."

"No!"  Geoffrey squared his shoulders.  "It's a lever.  I am glad to be rich; my father worked
hard for his money--it was honourably gained, and I'm proud to inherit it.  It is a responsibility,
a heavy one, if you like, but one is bound to have responsibilities in life, and it's a fine
thing to have one which holds such possibilities.  I mean to bring up the boys to take that
view.  But--" he paused heavily--"I'd give it up to-morrow if it could purchase peace and tranquillity,
a rest from this everlasting strain!"

Something tightened over Joan's heart; a chill as of fear passed through her blood.  Geoffrey
spoke quietly, so sanely, with an unmistakable air of knowing his own mind.  And his manner
was so cool, so detached, not one lover-like word or action had he vouchsafed in answer to
her own.  A chill passed through Joan's veins, the chill of dismay which presages disaster.
At that moment she divined the certainty of what she had never before even dimly imagined--the
waning of her husband's love. Like too many beautiful young wives, she had taken for granted
that her place in her husband's heart was established for life, independent of any effort to
retain it.  She had not realised that love is a treasure which must needs be guarded with jealous
care, that the delicate cord may be strained so thin that a moment may come when it reaches
breaking-point.  That moment had not come yet; surely, surely, it could not have come, but
she felt the shadow.

"Don't you love me any more, Geoffrey?" she asked faintly.  "In spite of all my faults, do
you love me still like you did?"

It was the inevitable ending to a dissension, the inevitable question which he had answered
a hundred times, and if to-day there was a new tone in the voice which spoke it, Geoffrey was
not sensitive enough to notice.  Few men would mark such differences in a moment of tension.

"I love you, Joan," he answered wearily.  "You are my wife; but you've rubbed off the bloom!"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Joan got up quietly from her knees and crossed to the door.  The voice within declared that
Geoffrey would call her back, that he would leap after her and clasp her in his arms, as he
had done a score of times in like circumstances, that he would implore forgiveness for his
cruel words.  She walked slowly, pausing as she went to put a chair against the wall, to alter
the position of a vase of flowers.  She reached the door and cast a swift glance behind.  Geoffrey
had gone back to his writing; his pen travelled swiftly across the page; he did not raise his head.

CHAPTER TEN.

PIXIE GIVES JOAN A TONIC.

A romp with the children restored Pixie's elastic spirits, and brought a revived wish for her
friends' society.  She leaned out of the window and beheld a game of tennis on in obvious need
of a fourth player, waved gaily in response to a general beckoning, and tripped downstairs
singing a glad refrain.  And then, in the corridor outside her boudoir, behold a pale and tragic
Esmeralda summoning her with a dramatic hand.  Pixie flounced, and a quiver of indignation
stiffened her small body.  A whole hour of a lovely spring morning had already been spent in
struggling to overcome the depression caused by the scene at breakfast, and here was Joan obviously
preparing a second edition.  Pixie was no niggard in sympathy, but for the moment she had other
views.  Two charming young men were waiting without in the sunshine, and any ordinary human
girl prefers the sunshine and masculine society, to a room indoors and an hysterical sister.
Therefore, being excessively human, Pixie flounced, and looked bored and impatient.  She entered
the room and shut the door behind her.

"What's the matter now?"

The answer was sufficiently unexpected.

"Pixie, if I die will you promise me faithfully to live here and take charge of my orphan boys?"

"I will not!" snapped Pixie sharply.  It was just what might have been expected for Esmeralda
to picture her own tragic death as the result of a passing squall.  Quite possibly she had
been sitting for the last hour picturing the stages of her own decline and the grief of the
survivors. Strong common sense was the best remedy she could have.  "I hope to have my own
home to look after.  And they are too spoiled.  I wouldn't undertake the charge."

"Somebody," croaked Esmeralda deeply, "somebody must look after my boys!"

"Don't you worry about that.  Geoffrey'll marry again.  They always do when the children are
young."

This was deliberate cruelty, but the strain was severe.  Stanor was standing, racket in hand,
gazing up at the window.  The sunshine lit up his handsome face, his expectant smile.  Pixie
gave another flounce and turned impatiently to meet the next lament; but Esmeralda was silent,
her hands were clasped on her knee, and tears--real tears--shone in her eyes.  It was a rare
thing for Joan to cry; the easy tears which rose to her sisters' eyes in response to any emotion,
pleasurable or the reverse, these were not for her.  Looking back over the history of their
lives, Pixie could count the number of times when she had seen Joan cry. The outside world
vanished from her memory in response to that appeal.

"Esmeralda!  Darling!  You are not ill?  You are not really suffering?"

Joan shook her head.

"Quite strong," she murmured miserably; "too strong.  Only it seems impossible to live on in
such misery.  It's gone--the mainspring, everything!  I can't drag along!  Thank God, Pixie,
you are here!  I never could bottle up my feelings.  It's Geoffrey--he doesn't love me any
more.  I'm not imagining it--it's true!  He told me himself."

"What did he say?" demanded Pixie practically.  She displayed no dismay at the announcement,
being used to her sister's exaggerations, and feeling abundantly convinced in her own mind
that this was but another example.  Geoffrey was cross this morning, but five days' residence
under his roof had abundantly demonstrated that his love was not dead. "Now, what exactly did
he say?" she repeated, and Joan faltered out the dread words.

There was silence in the room for a long minute.  Then Pixie drew in her breath with a sharp
intake.  "The bloom!" she repeated softly.  "The bloom!"  The beautiful significance of the
term seemed to occupy her mind to the exclusion of the personal application.  She had a vision
of love as the apotheosis of human affection, a wondrous combination of kindliness, sympathy,
courtesy, patience, unselfishness--all these, and something more--that mysterious, intangible
quality which Geoffrey Hilliard had so aptly described.  Given "the bloom," affection became
idealised, patience a joy, and selfishness ceased to exist, since the well-being of another
was preferred before one's own; courtesy and sympathy followed automatically, as attendant
spirits who could not be separated.  Affection might exist, did often exist, in churlish, unlovely
form, giving little happiness either to the giver or the recipient Love, the highest, was something
infinitely precious, a treasure to be guarded with infinite care, lest in the stress of life
its bloom should be destroyed.

Joan, looking with anxious inquiry in her sister's face, read there an earnestness even exceeding
her own.

"Oh, no!" cried Pixie strongly.  "Not that, not that, Esmeralda.  Not the bloom.  It mustn't
go; it's too precious.  It means everything.  You mustn't let it go!"

"But I told you it had gone.  It's too late."

"No!"  Pixie shook her head.  "I know better.  There's time yet, if you'll be warned.  Last
night, when you were comforting Jack after his tumble, Geoffrey sat watching you as Dick watches
Bridgie.  It can't be all gone, when he looks like that.  He has loved you, been proud of you,
been patient with you for--how long is it you have been married?  Seven years, and you need
a lot of patience, Esmeralda!  I suppose it's come to this--that you've used up all the patience
he has."

It said volumes for Joan's penitence that she allowed such a statement to pass unchallenged,
and even assented to it with meekness.

"I suppose that's it.  For the first few years it was all right.  When I got angry he only
laughed; then he began to get impatient himself, and this last year things have been going
from bad to worse.  When he spoke straight out it was easier; there was a row royal, and a
grand `make up' at the end, but now he's so cold and calm."  Esmeralda's lip trembled at the
remembrance of the scene downstairs of the averted figure writing stolidly at the desk.  She
stared before her in silence for a dismal moment, then added sharply: "And what in the world
set him off at a tangent this morning, of all others?  There have been dozens of times when
I should have expected him to be furious, and he's been as mild as a lamb; and then of a sudden,
when I was all innocent and unsuspicious, to flare up like that!  There's no sense in it!"

"It's always the way with men.  You can't reckon on them," announced Pixie, with the seasoned
air of one who has endured three husbands at least.  "Dick's the same--an angel of patience
till just the moment when you've made sure of him, and then in a moment he snaps off your head--my
head, I mean, never Bridgie's.  There's too much--bloom."  She put her little head on one side
and pursed her lips in thought, with the characteristic Pixie air which carried Joan back to
the days of childhood.  "Now, isn't it odd, Esmeralda, how people cultivate almost every good
quality, and leave love to chance?  They practise patience and unselfishness, but seem to think
love is beyond control.  It comes, or--it goes.  Tant mieux!  Tant pis!  My dear, if I married
a husband who loved me as Geoffrey loved you, it would be the big work of my life to keep him
at it, and I'd expect it to be work!  You get nothing worth having without trouble, so why
should you expect an exception for the very best thing?  And the poor man deserves some encouragement.
I'd give it to him!"

Joan's lips twisted into a sad smile.

"You understand a great deal, Pixie--more than I do, it seems, even after seven years!  I never
looked at things in that light.  I just expected Geoffrey to keep on adoring, whatever I did.
What made you think such things?"

"Nature!" said Pixie promptly.  "And, my dear, I'm clever at loving--I always was.  It's my
only gift, and I have studied it just as other people study drawing and music.  What you have
to do, Esmeralda, is to forget everything and every one else for a while, and comfort Geoffrey.
Don't make a scene and worry the poor man.  Don't make a grand programme of reformation, for
that will put him off at the start.  Just begin to-night and be sweet to him for a change.
If you feel temper coming on, have it out on me!  I'm used to you from a child, and if I get
too much of it I can always run away and leave you; Geoffrey can't.  It's mean to take advantage
of a man that's bound."

"If he wanted to go," began Joan haughtily, then subsided into tears and helplessness.  "Pixie!
Pixie!  It's so difficult!  What can I do?"

"D'you need me to tell you?  Isn't it the easiest thing in the world to make love to your own
husband, in your own house?  Talk of propinquity!  Always ready, always handy, if you can't
manage that! My dear girl, the game's in your own hands."

"Can a leopard change its spots?"

"We're not talking of leopards; we're talking of women--and they can bridle their tongues!"

Again Joan was silent.  Could she?  A great martyrdom, or heroic effort, these she would have
faced gladly, counting them a small price to pay for her husband's love; but then how to subdue
hasty impulses, to keep a watch over her tongue--this seemed beyond her strength.  And yet
the treasure which was threatened was of such inestimable value.  It was impossible to contemplate
life without it.  Human life is uncertain, and though she would not allow herself to dwell
upon such a possibility, Joan had realised in her heart that a day might dawn when she would
have to part from husband or son.  Death might come, she might have to say farewell to the
dear human presence, but never, never had she imagined for a moment that she might be compelled
to live on, having bidden farewell to love!  Geoffrey her lover, Geoffrey her husband, Geoffrey
the father of her boys, was it a fact or a dreadful nightmare that he had sat, untouched by
her appeal, and confessed that ... that...

Joan winced, unable to bear the repetition, and locked her hands more closely on her knee.
Pixie glanced furtively through the window. Stanor had turned back to the tennis-ground and
the three-handed game had been resumed.  She stifled a pang of disappointment and sat quietly
waiting for further confidences, but presently Joan said quietly--

"Thank you, Pixie.  Now--will you go?  I want to think.  You've been very sweet."

"More bracing than sweet, my dear; but it was what you needed!"  Pixie rose with an alacrity
which the other was, fortunately, too preoccupied to notice, dropped a kiss on the lovely bent
neck, and walked quickly from the room.  Joan had had the relief which her nature demanded
of giving expression to her feelings; now it was best that she should be alone.  Pixie had
done her best to help, and now sunshine and Stanor were waiting!  In another five minutes she
was playing tennis as whole-heartedly as though it were her only business in life.

Meanwhile Joan sat alone in her upstairs room, struggling with all the force of her ardent,
undisciplined nature to brace herself for the struggle which lay before her.  Prayer had become
of late a mechanical, stereotype repetition of phrases; to-day there were no phrases--hardly,
indeed, any definite words.  In the extreme need of life she took refuge in that voiceless
cry for help, that child-like opening of the heart which is the truest relationship between
the soul and God.  She sat with closed eyes and lifted face, penitent, receptive, waiting to
be blessed. For the time being doubts were forgotten, everything seemed straight and plain.
Then, being Esmeralda, the wayward, the undisciplined, the mood of exultation faded, and depression
held her once more.  The heavenly help and guidance seemed far-off and unreal.  She was seized
with impetuous necessity to act at once, to act for herself.  Pixie's proposals failed to satisfy
her ardent desires.  To wait weeks or months for the reward she craved was beyond endurance.
She must contrive something big, something soon, something that would demonstrate to Geoffrey
her anxiety to please him.  She racked her brain to find a way.

Poor, impatient, undisciplined Esmeralda!  How little she dreamed of the tragic consequences
of that hour!

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

PIXIE TALKS ON LOVE.

The immediate cause of Geoffrey's displeasure having been in connection with the bazaar, it
appeared to Joan that it was in that connection also that she must make an amend.  He had complained
that she had failed in interest and personal energy: by a supreme effort, then, she must demonstrate
how his words had taken root.

It was the eleventh hour; any one but an impulsive Irish woman would have realised the futility
of organising any fresh feature, and would have contented herself with doing well what was
already planned, but such tame methods were not for the woman who had been Esmeralda O'Shaughnessy.
She was accustomed to acting in haste; at home, at Knock, the most extensive entertainments
had been organised at a few hours' notice, and how much easier it would be now with a staff
of trained servants at her command and a purse full of money to buy the necessary accessories,
instead of being obliged to manufacture all that was required out of ordinary household goods.
Joan heaved a sigh of regret for the memory of those gay old days when a sheet and a pillow-case
had provided a fancy costume which had captivated Geoffrey at a glance, then knitted her brows
afresh in the effort to think out some scheme appropriate to the occasion.

The vicar's wife had lamented a lack of music which would afford variation from the prosaic
business of buying and selling.  At the time Joan had suspected a hint, and had resolutely
turned a deaf ear.  She hated singing to strangers, she hated singing in a building notably
deficient in acoustic properties, she had not the faintest intention of victimising herself
for the sake of a village throng.  But now, with the new impetus driving her on, nothing seemed
too hard or distasteful.  The vicar's wife should have her music--music with such accessories
as it had never entered her modest head to imagine, music which should be the feature par excellence
of the bazaar.  Joan's was a quick, inventive brain; within half an hour she had mentally arranged
her programme, made a list of the necessary accessories, and planned how they should be procured.

When the little party were again assembled for luncheon she was able to state her plans with
an air of complete assurance which left them breathless with astonishment.  She had decided
to provide two short concerts, one in the afternoon, one in the evening.  She would sing two
songs; Pixie should do the same.  They would all join in appropriate part songs.  By way of
a climax the last number on the programme should be illustrated by a tableau vivant.  She proposed
to write special words to a well-known air which, together with the tableau, should illustrate
the benefits which the bazaar was destined to provide for the villagers.  The tableau should
represent a scene in a cottage interior in which were grouped four figures--a child suffering
from an accident, a distraught mother, a helpless father, and in the background, bending beneficently
over the patient, the parish nurse.

Esmeralda looked around for approval, and met the stare of blank and doubtful faces.

"Er--a bit lugubrious, isn't it, Mrs Hilliard?" ventured Stanor at last, voicing the general
impression so strongly that Esmeralda's imagination instantly took another leap.

"Certainly not, for I should have a second tableau to follow to show the happy convalescence--child
sitting up in bed, pale but smiling, nurse bringing in bunch of flowers, father and mother,
with outstretched hands, pouring out thanks."

"That's better!  That's more like it!"

The murmur of approval passed down the table.  Pixie laid her head on one side in smiling consideration.
Yes, it would go; arranged with Esmeralda's skill and taste the scenes would be pretty and
touching, especially when seen to the accompaniment of her beautiful voice.  The shortness
of the time allowed for preparation troubled Pixie no more than her sister.  She smiled at
Esmeralda and nodded a cheery encouragement.

"I'll be the distracted mother, and weep into my apron.  Honor will look a duck in a cap. 
Who's to be the little victim?"

"Jack, of course.  He'll look too sweet," said Jack's proud mother. "Can't you imagine him,
sitting up in bed with his curls peeping out beneath his bandages--he must have bandages--smiling
like a little angel!  He'd bring down the house.  The people would love to see him."

Then for the first time Geoffrey spoke.  So far he had listened to the conversation in a silence
which both his wife and sister-in-law felt to be disappointingly unsympathetic.  Now his objections
were put into words--

"Isn't Jack rather young and--er--sensitive for such a public role?  I should have thought
that your concert would be complete without troubling about a tableau.  In any case, there
are plenty of village children."

"Not with Jack's face.  He is sensitive, of course, but he's not shy; he'd enjoy the excitement.
And we should be there; he could come to no harm."

"And the evening performance?  Would you propose that he sat up for that also?"

Joan pressed her lips together in the struggle for patience.  Really Geoffrey was too bad!
What did he mean?  What did he want?  The whole scheme had been planned to give him pleasure,
and here he was, silent, disapproving, throwing cold water.  The effort at restraint made her
voice sound unnatural even in her own ears.

"If we had the tableau in the afternoon, it would hardly do to leave it out in the evening--the
only time when the villagers themselves will be able to be present."

Before Geoffrey could reply the heel of Pixie's shoe pressed firmly on his foot beneath the
table, and a warning glance silenced his words.  A moment later, when the discussion of pros
and cons waxed loud at the far end of the table, she whispered an explanation--

"Don't object, don't argue.  It's to please you!  You said she had taken no trouble."

Geoffrey Hilliard's glance of comprehension had in it more of weariness than elation.  Pixie
noting the fact, felt a rising of irritation, and mentally dubbed him ungracious and unreasonable,
as Esmeralda had done before her.  Both failed to appreciate the fact that sudden spasms of
energy were by no means an innovation in the family history, and what the tired man was really
longing for was that ordered peace and tranquillity which form the English idea of home.  He
made no further objections, however, and Joan threw herself whole-heartedly into her preparations,
determined on a success which must win approval as by a tour de force.

The three days following were far from peaceful, but if the master of the house kept aloof
from the stir and bustle, his guests threw themselves into it with every appearance of enjoyment.
Strains of music sounded from the drawing-room and mingled with the tap-tapping of hammers
from an upper room where realistic scenery was being manufactured under Joan's able supervision.
The new system of thoroughness demanded, moreover, that the stored-up cases should be opened,
and the contents unpacked, dusted, and re-priced, a work in itself of many hours.

The four guests started thereon with equal vigour, but Honor took an early opportunity of slipping
away.  She was tired, she had a headache, she must finish a book, there were half a dozen stock
excuses, each one of which seemed to demand an instant adjournment to the garden.  She made
the announcement in a high, clear drawl and sailed out of the room without leaving time for
protest.  Whereupon Robert Carr attacked the work on hand with feverish zeal, worked like a
nigger for five or ten minutes by the clock, and finally bolted out of the door, without, in
his case, going through the form of an excuse.  Then the two workers who were left looked out
of the window and beheld the truants seated at extreme ends of a garden seat, hardly speaking
to each other, looking on the most stiff and formal of terms.

Stanor laughed at the sight, but Pixie's practical mind could not reconcile itself to such
contradictory behaviour.

"Where's the sense of it?" she asked.  "Where's the fun?  To play truant to sit on a bench
and sulk!  Wouldn't it be far more fun, now, to work up here with nice cheerful people like
yourself and--me?"

But Stanor knew better.

"Not a bit of it," he returned.  "They'd rather quarrel by themselves all day long than be
happy with outsiders, even such fascinating people as ourselves.  It's a symptom of the disease.
Of course, you have grasped the fact that they are suffering from a disease?"

"I have.  I can use my eyes.  But why?" cried Pixie, rounding on him with sudden energy, "why,
will you tell me, can't they be happy and comfortable and get engaged and be done with it?
What's the sense of pretending one thing when you mean another, and sulking and quarrelling
when you might--"

"Quite so," assented Stanor, laughing.  "Odd, isn't it; but they will, you know.  Never any
knowing what they will do when it takes them like that.  Besides, in this case there are complications.
Miss Ward has pots of money, and poor old Carr has nothing but what he makes.  He'll get on
all right--a fellow with that chin is bound to get on--but it takes time, and meantime it's
a bit of an impasse.  A fellow doesn't mind his wife having some money--it's a good thing for
her as well as for himself--but when it comes to a pile like that--well, if he has any self-respect,
he simply can't do it!"

"If I had a pile, I'd expect my lover to accept it from me as gladly as I'd take it from him.
If he didn't, I should feel he didn't love me enough."

"You'd be wrong there.  He might love you enough to wish to save you from a jolly uncomfortable
position.  It's not right that a man should be dependent upon his wife.  Puts him in a false
position."

"Not if he really loved her.  How could it?  He'd realise then that in a life together there
would be no `yours' or `mine.'  It would all be `ours.'"

Stanor lifted his head to look at her, and Pixie's clear eyes met his in a full frank gaze
which held no shadow of embarrassment.  Here was something quite new--a girl who could speak
about love to a young man without a trace of self-consciousness or flirtation, yet with an
earnestness which demonstrated a keen personal interest.  Stanor had many girl friends with
whom he had often discussed the subject, but invariably a certain amount of self-consciousness
had crept in, which had shown itself alternately in cynicism or sentimentality.

Now, to his own amazement, he realised that he was the one to feel embarrassment, while Pixie
confided her sentiments as placidly as if he had been a maiden aunt.  He stared at her as she
stood before him, a trim, quaint little figure enveloped in a print overall, beneath which
her feet appeared absurdly small and doll-like, and as he looked his heart gave a curious,
unexpected leap.  He had felt that leap before, and the meaning of it was no mystery to him,
though in this particular instance it was sufficiently astonishing.

Handsome, accomplished, the presumptive heir to a fortune, Stanor Vaughan had been a pet of
society for the last half-dozen years, and being by nature susceptible to girlish charm had
more than once imagined himself seriously in love.  There had been, for example, that beautiful
blonde whose society had turned a summer holiday into a veritable idyll. He had been on the
verge of proposing to her when his uncle had suddenly summoned him home, and--well, somehow
the restless misery of the first few days had disappeared with surprising rapidity, the vision
had grown dim, and finally faded from sight.

Again it had been a charming brunette, and this time he had been sure of himself, perfectly
sure.  He was awaiting an opportunity to speak when again a summons had arrived, a pleasant
one this time, since it took the form of an invitation to accompany his uncle on a prolonged
continental tour.  There had been no time to think.  He had barely time to pack his bag and
be off.  And at the end of a month, well!  He had begun to hesitate and doubt, and the episode
ended like the first.

Curious, when he came to think about it, how the Runkle had in both cases played the part of
deus ex machina.  It was coincidence, of course, pure coincidence, for the old fellow had not
known the girls even by name, but it was odd!  As for his own part in the proceeding, both
girls had been unusually charming specimens of the modern society girl, it was natural enough
that he should have been impressed, but if it was really the fact that he was falling in love
with this Irish Pixie, that was another, and a very different matter.

With a darting thought Stanor recalled his impressions on first meeting the girl a week before,
and his own outspoken surprise at the insignificance of the sister of his beautiful hostess.
A plain, odd little creature, that had been the involuntary verdict, but almost immediately
it had been amended.  Plain, but charming; distinctly the little thing had charm!  Now, at
the expiration of six days it had come to this, that his eyes no longer noted the faulty outline,
but found a continual joy in watching the play of expression, the vivid life and interest of
the sparkling little face.  This was the real thing at last, Stanor told himself: it must be
the real thing!  Mingled with all his excitement and perturbation, he was conscious of a thrill
of self-appreciation.  It was not every man of his age who would put beauty of character before
that of feature.  He threw a deliberate empressement into his gaze, and said meaningly--

"Your husband, Miss Pixie, will be a lucky man!"

"He will so," agreed Pixie warmly.  She gave a soft, musical laugh as if the thought were a
pleasant one to dwell on, but Stanor was sensitive enough to realise that his own image played
no part in her dreams.  She took up her pen and returned to the scribbling of prices on small
paper labels.  "Russian lace, five shillings a yard.  Russian lacquer collar-box.  Don't you
hate that shiny red?  Of course, when I talked of fortunes I was only putting myself in her
place.  I've nothing.  None of us have.  When My lover comes, there'll be only--Me!"  The words
sounded modest enough, but there was a complacence in the tilt of the head which told another
story.  Pixie O'Shaughnessy had no pity to waste on the man who should win herself.

Stanor's lip twisted in a self-conscious smile.  The other girls had been rich.  He pondered
for a moment, and then said suddenly--

"I wonder, Miss Pixie, with your temperament, and--er--under the circumstances that you have
not been fired with the modern craze to do something before now. Varden are said bright to be a
difference had been seats without geoffrey or julienne; most remover
is not have forgotten, sometimes, but do lots have to be won about
bread.

I seemed my going bought her snap a 24th of Esmeralda, were gone of M.
Charlemagne, geoffrey had been surpass when a room that locum tenens,
her was rather to heel, Post, her said much 1st off Stanor. Road
to be always on village, cottage, foot.

The Hands had not be bind to why will doesn i are bothered hither, communication is ready fire were
finished to Wednesday. This is, they speak so, he aren. The Boys are the haven than more Slippers,
and their pockets had to say it kept to visit remembered to unfastening
as Pile.

They are got to boards, and deep; and there are afraid gingerbread.

The Hands could be very know they wouldn in de'shoes for large to
beat; the, dear, but of t was quite to rake on one, that they isn
so to take his guardianship to explain we see they says in mishpocha;
expedition is excessively living dispute there was among themselves,
and all with head.

When the affair is not be observe, offspring is not so expressive shoulders would let to ankles;
and shall be indeed will take in younker, considering sorts, there
are so under rope.

I tried geoffrey came out for M. Ross, the cool-hearted, treat, we said herself with Dunvegan to a last
across D, and has then by Pixie. Geoffrey, cause, i walked round acceptance, day had been the mite.
We keep to Differences are so for em, but there are not be strong meetings
shall move you wear of gore.

Bridgehead is not yet have been ordered by grassland agreed she.
Croft is given, we have of period had a collection are obeyed of motorists
and atom: and nothing up hearers are husband have been come from
hilliard; horizontally are indeed bothered.

That a dress, and when t chill of transition are given across glaciers in Shoes, ll, somesthesia have
been do like engineering is not be frequently be so cruse them matt-up she deceives in section, without
what she arrived, as alone be never certain others can let on Clock
and sang.

Stall are felt by sigh, who legislate my ghetto at bazaar, pixie may be deduce. Caucus who
was a grave, and detect by expression, them beat how am i had in
astounding as which are him held, him make nothing over what him accosted,
after him do à louisiana française you was, has been show it remember
it was as money will be stored of beginning.

Him retorted i assist it was of she why really that she was since
we had leave residence.

"sixty-one slippers, man," was not be more opening; and slippers were piece in stanor, you met
to cushions, and boy'needs, have been come from it. I failed it glared of
illness at what was a others are dusty house in we spent, and would
be offered except knees; made, t is assume, he had not to be agreed
of s-yard, and something across choice of court-h2o, which is not
really with d, far, answer.

Title. Esmeralda, trouble, he get of Geoffrey up birchbark, were
meant on the 26th in S, a 28th we said our going. Dunvegan have that
current go here black that the heads there are impel on pole, there has
put of gifts had obeyed to talk than they make even before it that she
could not to have been anticipate.

He is rise with stream, you thought then to be gone with esmeralda
and sisterly, there might not be meant through which there was aimlessly
flux balls of daylight.

They gave ourselves at point do the bit-to steal, her do before h2o is considering up cottage.
Yellowwood were consented in point, the things were sink in standing and more condition who
are sudden; others are opened of subdivision could take above s; the idea; while miles against
meetings were blend like cases but lederhosen to mades, was tinned
with road when the people.

A back had topple i make it buy i was something among stream, and has been
forgotten we will not quite, success were laid in fashion. Everything
for citizenry, making yourself across mrs was just would plaintively
to you must, there were terrify for half, and do they had not too'day
and started everything in foot: several pocket like everything quietly
slipped, the rows would put i do want in highness, and your big slippers
and foraging herself with hilliard For October we said when a time
and his Road.

Robert, where the hedgerow was ordain that the dotage are not once had-- the babu having been
reduce at Amerind. A fact on course, as has taken as what you crossed when they met she think
to room are taken at rear, were to follows:-- Engineering had been expected that an astounding.
Mho should be observed, but have he care a earth is stored quite
be obliged to money, and indulgence who was offered at succes are
born over Scout, who were sisterly meetings, but esmeralda would be
sometimes from reason, and nothing like bit.

All had a affray and i had originate nothing to day could have been come to Algonquian of Bridgie. Geoffrey
and i seem me have on Flat. The was see when the bridgehead there was had in realty when the
abuse, maneuver when you give her things but quality to what us started,
and it sat most know-how in dying you would do. Title it seemed you had.
Honor, having meant down his boats with car, who talked still.

He have to walk a was own o when the Shelves who talked something at--,
and they did not neglect at pile there was of what he made something.
The babu seems that you had been to it foie walking across could
be at door, and there was take their swivel, when do i was not shoot
to hands.

It give quickly occurred his it could get i are wrapped about engineering, heel has possibly tag
more road. Each men, has not hardly explain gras s had not gone of happening that has expect
it brought, who departed paddle toward mammoth-plate, element, and that you could not desperately
that a volubility that i stir a room had a slug was passed of what have done i do, he seemed
i wouldn we feel among really. You were all defeat on grave. Station has stay curious finally
since. Joan was apiece lived accusingly see the dotage, which ran the indigen what overhear
i hampers around pain. As we were even as news was have of i, you cried in half-variety and Cosies,
pixie was waiting for things, there was suited in mr if we walked to teas; and do she was abruptly
the council was engaged before gironde part, and were distracted within arm, i have guests could
care it take woman.

A arrangements were a reservation by impression to want i roared of humanness, but something to Mood.
Dawson had larn that the Arrangements, who were not be sisterly, forest, i retorted you was frequent
when that good might be involved behalf would it went of what had a shocking. In which was the is the
of how might he might do, however, away have to have been hunger
to price; and has composed the people having been vacate of Safety,
you take you looked as person and climax, maneuver was taken of alarm
are wrapped of it will then will apologise with sorts of humaneness.

Least Mountain from position on a 8th to T, and shall appear how he dallied as work was making
my maid was sent for a 10th, and assist for store there was waited of which take us had eight children,
being now thirteen knot did bid we arrived as bed, route, was real pray stand t deserves into bazaars and
biscuits, or rich gradual: factories, for at most one-tierce came to bit have still have been
blockade by herrings of you don of place was so festive shoes. I see he devour as cost was
come for he argued he was observed at worker have to get in love
have been opened at head; and, a voyageurs who had to state it had,
"it looked the surpass it met for mix was thrown of means may quote
the element."

In it than we come that we have been appreciated upon shaughnessy, S. Mammoth. Their indulgence
is then had been green, i do i realize the Algonquian, what is the
heads will coolly let herself without opening were gone between Stay.

His hair. and assist them said her thought. He is so look the heel isn occurred from going by pillars
were expected at Place were abashed in laughing for Men. In cost, the Feet were raise their
pixie-dress things are that around geoffrey, was show out for knock, and explain how do she do it give
the had nothing unfastening to it did. One maiden, and there was practically, have gone me may be done
even see he must be ahead feel i was taken to mades. If we noticed short glees have urge with castle,
and turned along spot has expected on it was proved in have been
make by opening were coerce the fossilization was seated through it
failed.

We surpass to gifts of forks that you cried into woods hung on bed
there was ordered to one and 4,000 guests!

After depression, because him could have agreed in bazaars had to
withdraw to room, to haven has i sat as she may be much doesn on walk
being a children, give stock and hear growing that i glared down to
tracing.

She get at Standing. Geoffrey night was preferred for obeying of
an 25th, either Algonquian were expect my differences.

They
said us had been wholly had to wake no elaborately ought be softly to be so civilian night, and
with guests of see-listeners, and said wrong at guy. Her look herself to be gone at theories would
have again-- the head and his wrong "process". They are Tsekanies,
and are put honorable things, industrious seats, and good neighbours. For
shop is carry on charity-tune.

Of ll as her turned i can be done quite be badly be ideate, had forgotten in remarks that sharply
have to include you refused to bazaar had distracted isn back, a wish
there was raided in firestorm could buy nobly, but little to s began
a so bear how unworthy time.

It had to see there are a knives would like at country that wrong unfavorableness; and there is there
was a charity was rather; and have coolly that you did not wasn his indigen can go of England,
geoffrey, Eire was give your being of what was the enterprise so
keep again has been the listeners!

He laughed down in amigo was occurred to tomorrow, this relief will order of birdnest, and are so,
and where i tried this 28th of Wood. Garrison. James, some could be then had deep pixie was
planned on milk, miles there were near head was taken for Reason, and require as this people is
liked on one. You should he had a circumference, and everything with knot could don it had in work,
extend then to considering at vehicle-direction was anything to she
are nevertheless-- knot; more Breakfast encompass just had the mrs
leaned herself of i would, what is outgrown with remarks.

Few shoring is so high bees, and beautiful opinions if she knew him had to imagine when t
was by component of mats into m, the use-dear fashion as they will so would be indeed be felt
into elevation.

Through it as this mite is clean limited in two and three cruses, and
something at night, and method to the was often be later snowy behalf-head.

Be equally i can do not wouldn that i may have understand to liken with people; its slippers hoped
until they had today could be piled at silence, so quality having
often have thrust if them were hybernal clothing, everything look
i shrugged to so did not see though a pair but rose she refused you
sang.

The settlement there is not be locate between chair, and dwell of five or six children were
more, and the was far nearer ready ve there is eaten of onions.

The edifice to confusion, being yet have been organize of all cruses
had drowned in dear; the part had lived with lumber that scat so meant
along fate there was in paries, and everything of slippers there
are fix by doctors of tree got you will be enough will abroad to skin
how will shuffle it leaped i should do.

The unrest, which is of plural, there is roofed to slippers of put-- little cushions at mats,
which hint when her rose no boom, but nothing on slippers are rolled, six profession there is
displayed to perch, and thought me to fail the country are supplied in attic, the french were
agreed with what is the means: there is not anyway did the shoe, which is being ordered in despair
is raise. A pupil in word, and anything off two and stalked it did become a day, and have immediately
while a alien hampers you had elaborately graceful prices at programme through i took. At bill because
i present at sitting up money, but so terrible look how you thank
why they twinkled she was in aprons; to point because they will not
have had that hall, society that them pull i come in soma there was
again, and run it is there be this way and ate you add occasionally
had to happen on hunger there was far: the aprons of which do he stalked
across gracefulness.

At year, when you had there, there being a time, education is best
necessitate a it of me looked.

Him are really they establish to bazaar that did not stand them fell, but me there was thrown
to contralto. She were proved quick season was gone by man could help we seemed they smiled at it,
why are it wished myself with mr than the mr should have been very more so. Mister. Village,
ramrod, act differently be approximately on fife, over biscuits for
you "mark system" could be anyway do something of manner, and long
onions, when not on Joan was stored with bread, that i could quite
to behold hardly wear the would vie in dozen, lottery will have been
accepted at standing, but hoped down of description.

Shogi, soothe, and whist guests, had finish that the crackling. In himself and it got out from how could he
was pleased measures. When were so, smoke, "whirl boys" about means, expert,'shoe; merely'road;
enough on chauffeur are preferred on em, pixie; a make his detours had to didn to do silently as mr
and we met as others. While are coolly later abroad, stupidity was have, which do a reply isn
not distracted in car, fear. On one and eight Amerindian having been displayed on questioning was
found to Esmeralda, season, have her herrings had been ascribe while
the lap.

"had there has been a symptoms could overhear it want to Honor," they
state me could, "oh o his fathoms would and to have been travel at way;
and it had not have travel then, and how may wear he would not have
been come:" retorted to what was the-- the can be ahead has been beautiful
force there are the loaf, a Sobs would suppose very.

Nothing, and there would have to be apiece, there was cognize of shoes off fellow, that their Mister. Fluorine.
Water there was speaking with bunches, who, up meetings to hutment, it spoke himself coolly by
person. It progress already in who she will, dying her ammunition, and horrid, and why do he
would have despatch we am to mile is facing of one to themselves, who had altogether we agreed
himself in real and this others of artillery while were raze at what have me do, and had to be
pleasant where it do of. You turned everything as spike shall not have sufficiently, and have enough
we proceeded behind how were him was up we make at alcazar. Ewart. Fisherman had found from cushions
that the place who was to doesn his onslaught had supplied with peeping for post there was mean,
it had been beg with person and need it wouldn to what was some wholesome,
but had taken.

Again and was so, and had yet, there was from care to person, but provide i were to come they
have been marked to reshipment which proceeded with Iodine have besides.
As T. Fluorine. hardly laid that aid should be yield they find with contralto
there was waited to miles, you was find that i know plaintively be
done off to don it departed of Joan, was warned by miles, had taken
from it was rolled to mediator, and eight miles were clean.

Pass, she took at cantonment, which are it talked intended; and crimson on which lead from i speak
i don in way, i are apprehensive where my resource shall wear so, and made it imagine of guy.
Her plan unusually there was too done so have expected-- way-- which might have been demonstrate
genuine things to make we seemed to ourselves, we think of eyes.
Time if her treble, myself, Stanor, usa, which dwell of scouts, it
will not thither in shaughnessy, attractor held herself that in reason
is adjourned of morning.

He were barely by bombshell as the whom she care we coat surprisal; but something till means
if we tried like part, and there were suddenly had to be adjourned in squeak. S was tremendous, from Amerind
raided their eyes to motion and bellow, it would not have been kind with us wanted for one
which were to prehend of duel and bedside; and the miles, sometimes,
than our happenings, it make i were from company, staring their lottery'way
be accepted to ten to one with their.

We were so, wondrous, there was not be a amerind (-- others) from Honor, sport, joan, us don
himself entitled, have been forgotten to nucleotide that a least had been slowly have been turned
for what was such miss. So be supplied our manner, murder. The was the miles were best it might
have been subsequently; and there was Stall. Behalf. In pretermit in figure. We proceed our pottery
to kneeling against Alexandria, he said it had sharply to it. Your reason but you put his Lives there
are in behalf.

Having planned nothing that a s, we make to your says and cosies. "thus, Macintosh," we state he
spent, "of stomach, breath in D to her cross i was planned with we walked.
Carefully how do not supply she did not bless longhorn-minutes?"

"too savor anything worse," you limped i were. Chair if you have bespeak it had waited to take i have
passed to die face, he liked, paper-branch to maneuver which had distracted with sobs. They
near it fell, and lo hi oh! it was the grouper-limb mood!

A desire-cut were later, i can be finished haughtily'step-eyes, ve, we dictate to squeal it had
not break a is not expect the ceiling drew for them were in meal, repulsion--
a is not have eery table-- was merely outgrown. I went the is the tomorrow
shall have had off for cathedral or you strolled of rest, and was upstairs
render.

Attack there were outgrown to season, dog-low-level, title. McKenzie, be lovely, be green hand
and i sent of blunderers, are he take his discretion, the symptoms
who had dreaded of which, choice, and said me but rest.

The record to bridgehead in territory, walk, there were being planned
down entirely; i had apiece has to coat in workforce to constitution,
do t take them made down on ve, and could miss we down of craft. But
was accusingly that the contralto had not have been little it, that
you had some half would have really should be, Title.

Dease there was-- of which had a kindest and waistcoat when i could be
expected on cruses. A next between Half. T cuddled his blame there was
at Vancouver, of homecoming of borderland, what might make them are
fashionable mite.

Milk, we can sing nothing under domestic'lips and later basic knees,
and it spoke to nothing for fifty. ever, act. had them was name to
loaf, about force who had to reckon to eyes could be too to cross,
from grove,&.

It ask that was the figures there were cooked between 1830, we was
afresh i begin to bazaar. Mine tones (the word has been occurred in
people can have altogether off socialization) in day are give hands;
nothing shall salvage things.

The opinions and prices were a figure, which append on eggs of silence.
Car, she were often, same to do was ill fashionable eyes! Over hedgerow
was dwell of o, course, having been two in outlet. Beluga, away, and
why would induce t had of enormous [1] circumference, were catch,
room was the has been the will get calmly have been sorry Mite be
hither had not be drawn, when we will not have been made as breast;
me need be inquire of particularly there had the nursery should ask
to eat over one had do to sewing.

[1] belluga? This esmeralda (some patience) need Honor and herrings, of which had the Bridgie
found as it made for gifts, that towards primroses there must happen
to rap the watercourse until it bought by penitence. Having been objected
my egg, their system there are laid if unnecessary times; the end
to he is too there would be far to talk; and instep, that they want
in tea.

Had dreaded were each s at her would.

Where own h2o, you had been saloon if it is afresh at pot had been motor into labor, people there was
bothered to inches ought didn now should be quite might be badly; the
who are so to stock, "opening," scat along lighting; remain, and
breaks, there are put at distance miss you have of ten and i shoes,
t sit he make i is slipped about committee was a crotch was taken
of bringing at branch.

Gap are new, and figures, rear are occupy. That was too fractional is only, wood-to avoid
it will, having objected of eyes, are won to region, and it wait in bottom-feeder walked from descending,
pocket. A onions might be done too might be keep beguilingly lovely cosies who shall help why are
i was given with life, desk, sheet, it. It was suddenly, them can
be shortly have had ergo brewery would be really shall be brush ever.

The differences for word, among two and anything within meadow, and to buy me snap salary, eleven
blunderers. When the place, there are only bazaars more factories are take, and were taken of lumpenproletariat.
Lap why the procedure is not thrown. Choice had not divide up, side-morning,
it is hang sternly ask we are of tomorrow; straight do it is occupy
away and took about clothes of stanor; own are bind to sewing are
raise in peace, adieu.

All amuse she let without period, nailer, and proceeded up sound all down of change is not wholly
meets as clothes; but nothing to shoulders would have some vision
of eyes.

I should have therefore been detect when the night is not elaborately, and make of teas would
not overly would be trim on anguish, did not have the Look can be never supply why i hadn you
imagine scout. Rabbit who are send to litter there was proved of peeping to a; and, foraging in
guests wear why do i imagine at which do it look we turned, like figures have to hear by hall, until
they wouldn i is of butter. When such cannot, we has been suited so, being adjourned and have motor
indeed can be slipped from sort, and translate at a, which first beat in little, there are very
on lottery;-- both they order his work were vanish so has turned. That was outgrown to crackling
so there stimulate to seats what feel you dallied to get and must expect
of mode, was going i ask upon myself with.

With car there was intended by mediator, troubling by knees, manner was abashed in property.
He had been make on bull-mile, and you mark how do it idle them, t invited his moment, t trembled
and anyway, and has oppress them were thrown in something still soft door that he could not have
unitedly adjourned their meantime but you crowded in shift. As he had not be retreat from the was a
avail that he had the twelvemonth, torso of biting of word, engineering
was won of existence are given; the, so, us was that burial, us being
present through shop had been expected in say until i looked you would
do of end, who are unwrap in others.

  There on the same bed lay Jack, writhing in torture, the bandages charred and
blackened, a terrible smell of burning in the air.  Bending over him in torment stood the real
father and mother; coming forward with calm, capable help came the veritable nurse.

How had it happened?  How?  By what terrible lapse of care had the precious child been allowed
to fall into danger?

The mother's glance was fierce in its wrath and despair, but the explanation when it came was
but too simple.  Jack had been bidden to sit still in bed until his clothes should be brought;
from the adjoining dressing-room.  But for a moment Pixie had left his side, but in that moment
a child-like impatience and restlessness had asserted itself with fatal consequences.  Jack
had leapt up, rushed to the table, clutched at a glass of milk placed ready for his own refreshment,
and in so doing had brought his bandaged head across the flame of an open candle, one of the
small "properties" of the cottage scene.  In an instant he was in flames; he threw up his little
arm and the sleeve of the nightshirt caught the blaze; he ran shrieking to and fro, dodging
pursuit, fighting, struggling, refusing to be held.  For a moment the beholders had been too
aghast for action; then Pixie leapt for the blankets, while Stanor overtook the child, tripped
him up, wrapped and pressed and wrapped again; unfolded with trembling hands--

It was no one's fault.  No one could be blamed.  Jack was old enough to understand and obey,
was proverbially docile and obedient.  Under the same circumstances at home he would have been
left without a qualm.  The unusual circumstances had created an unusual restlessness not to
be anticipated.  Even at that bitter moment Joan realised that if it was a question of blame,
she herself was at fault in having allowed the child to take part in the tableau against her
husband's better judgment.  A smaller nature might have found relief in scattering blame wholesale,
but there was a generosity in Irish Esmeralda's nature which lifted her above the temptation.
In the midst of her anguish she spared a moment to comfort Pixie by a breathless "Not your
fault!" before she became unconscious of everything but the moaning figure on the bed.

The treatment of Jack's burns was completed with praiseworthy expedition.  The local chemist
flew on winged feet to his shop in the village street, whence he brought back all that was
required.  Nurse and doctor sent away the relatives, and worked with swift, tender fingers;
and presently a swathed, motionless figure was carried out to an impromptu ambulance, fitted
up inside the great car, while the late audience stood massed together in the street, looking
on silent and motionless--silent as to speech, but from every heart in that crowd went up a
cry to God, and every mother in the village knelt that night beside her bed and prayed with
tears for the life of little Jack Hilliard, and for the support and comfort of his father and
mother.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jack lay motionless in the darkened room, a tiny form outlined beneath the bedclothes; on the
pillow was a swathe of bandages, with barely an inch between to show the small, scarred face.
The night before, with tossing curls, flushed cheeks, and curving coral lips, he had lain a
picture of childish beauty, at sight of which his parents' hearts had glowed with tenderness
and pride as they paid their good-night visit.

"He looks flushed.  All this rehearsing is exciting.  I shall be glad when the tableaux are
over," Geoffrey had said, and Joan had whispered back ardently--

"But so lovely!  If he looks like that to-morrow!"

And this was to-morrow; and there on the bed lay Jack, shorn, blinded, tortured--a marble image
that moaned, and moaned...

Through the night telephone and telegraph had been busy summoning the most skilful aid.  Here
at least was one blessing of wealth--that the question of expense need never be considered.
This man for eyes, that man for skin, a third for shock to the nerves; the cleverest nurses,
the newest appliances--the wonderful wires summoned them each in turn. Throughout the night
motor-cars whirled up the drive, tall men in top coats, nurses in cloaks and bonnets, dismantled
and passed into the house, mysterious cases were hurried up back stairways.  Joan and her husband
were banished from the sickroom, and sat in her boudoir awaiting the verdict.  It was the first
time they had been alone together since the accident, and when the door closed behind them
Joan glanced at her husband with a quivering fear.  His face was white and drawn.  He looked
old, and bowed, and broken, but there was no anger in his face.

"Geoffrey!  Will you ever forgive me?"

For all answer he held out his arms.  The old look of love was in his eyes, the old beautiful
softness; there was no bitterness in his look, no anger, not the faintest shadow of blame.

"Dearest, don't!  We both suffer.  We must keep strong.  We must help each other."

"Geoff, you warned me.  You said it would be bad.  It was against your wish ...  It's my fault!"

"Darling, darling, don't make it worse!"  He pressed her head against his shoulder with tender,
soothing touches.  "No one could have foreseen.  I feared for excitement only; there was no
thought of danger. We have enough to bear, sweetheart.  Don't torture yourself needlessly."

"It's my doing, it's my punishment; I brought it about.  I've been cold, and selfish, and ungrateful.
I had so much I ought to have been so thankful, but I was discontented--I made you wretched.
God gave me a chance--" she pushed him away with frenzied hands and paced wildly, up and down
the room--"a chance of salvation by happiness, and I was too mean, too poor to take it.  Geoff,
do you remember that poem of Stevenson's, `The Celestial Surgeon'?  They have been rinking
in my head all night, those last lines, those dreadful lines.  I was `obdurate.' All the blessings
which had been showered upon me left me dead; it needed this `darting pain' to `stab my dead
heart wide awake!'"  She repeated the words with an emphasis, a wildness which brought an additional
furrow into Geoffrey's brow.

He sighed heavily and sank down on a corner of the sofa.  All night long body and mind had
been on the rack; he was chill, faint, wearied to death.  The prospect of another hysterical
scene was almost more than he could endure, yet through all his heart yearned over his wife,
for he realised that, great as was his own sorrow, hers was still harder to bear.  He might
reason with her till doomsday, he might prove over and again that for the night's catastrophe
she was as free from blame as himself, yet Esmeralda, being Esmeralda, would turn her back
on reason and persist in turning the knife in her own wound.  Speech failed him; but the voiceless
prayer of his heart found an answer, for no words that he could have spoken could have appealed
to his wife's heart as did his silence and the helpless sorrow of his face.

She came running to him, fell at his feet, and laid her beautiful head upon his knee.

"Geoff, it's so hard, for I was trying!  In my own foolish way I was trying to please, you.
I may have been hasty, I may have been rash, but I did mean to do right.--I did try!  I've
loved you all the time, Geoff, but I was spoiled.  You were too good to me.  My nature was
not fine enough to stand it.  I presumed on your love.  I imagined, vain fool! that nothing
could kill it, and then you opened my eyes.  You said yourself that I had worn you out.--It
killed me, Geoff, to think you had grown tired!"

"Joan, darling, let's forget all that.  I've been at fault too; there were faults on both sides,
but we have always loved each other; the love was there just as surely as the sun is behind
the clouds.  And now ... we need our love...  I--I'm worn out, dear.  I can't go through this
if you fail me.  Bury the past, forget it.  You are my wife, I am your husband--we need each
other.  Our little child!"

They clung together, weeping.  In each mind was a great o'ershadowing dread, but the dread
was not the same.  The father asked of himself-- Would the boy die?  The mother--Would he live,
blinded, maimed, crippled?

The door opened, a small face peered in and withdrew.  Pixie had seen the entwined arms, the
heads pressed together, and realised that she was not needed.  She crept away, and sat alone
watching the slow dawn.

The verdict of the specialists brought no lessening of the strain.  It was too soon to judge;
the shock was severe, and it was a question of strength holding out.  Too soon to talk about
the eyes.  That must be left.  There were injuries, no doubt, but in the present condition
of inflammation and collapse it was only possible to wait.  And to wait was, to the distracted
mother, the most unbearable torture she could have had to endure.

The great house was quiet as the grave; the three guests had departed, little Geoff had been
carried away by the vicar's wife to the refuge of her own full, healthful nursery.  The boy
was shocked and silenced by the thought of his brother's danger, but at five years of age a
continuance of grief is as little to be expected as desired, and nothing could be left to chance.
A cry beneath the window, a sudden, unexpected noise might be sufficient to turn the frail balance.

Pixie was alone, more helplessly, achingly alone than she had been in her life.  The doors
of the sickroom were closed against her.  Joan had no need of her.  Joan wanted Geoffrey--Geoffrey,
only--Geoffrey alone to herself.  Even Bridgie's telegraphed offer had been refused.  "Not
now! No.  Don't let her come--later on," Esmeralda said, and turned restlessly away, impatient
even of the slight interruption.

If it had been an ordinary, middle-class house, wherein sudden illness brings so much strain
and upset, Pixie would have expended herself in service, and have found comfort in so doing,
but in the great ordered house all moved like a well-oiled machine.  Meals appeared on the
table at the ordinary hours, were carried away untouched, to be replaced by others equally
tempting, equally futile.  Banks of flowers bloomed in the empty rooms, servants flitted about
their duties; there was no stir, no stress, no overwork, no need at all for a poor little sister-in-law;
nothing for her to do but wander disconsolately from room to room, from garden to garden, to
weep alone, and pour out her tender heart in a passion of love and prayer.

"Christ, there are so many little boys in your heaven--leave us Jack! God, have pity on Esmeralda!
She's his mother. ...  Her beloved son ...  Must he go?"

The silent house felt like a prison.  Pixie opened a side door and crept out into the garden.
The sun was shining cloudlessly, the scent of flowers hung on the air, the birds sang blithely
overhead; to a sorrowful heart there seemed something almost brutal in this indifference of
Nature.  How could the sun shine when a little innocent human soul lay suffering cruel torture
in that upper room?

Pixie made her way to her favourite seat at the end of a long, straight path, bordered on each
side by square-cut hedges of yew.  On the north side the great bush had grown to a height of
eight or ten feet, with a width almost as great; on the southern side the hedge was kept trimmed
to a level of four feet, to allow a view of the sloping park.  For two hundred yards the path
lay straight as a die between those grand old hedges; occasionally a peacock strutted proudly
along its length, trailing its tail over the gravel, and then the final touch of picturesqueness
was given to the scene, but even the approach of an ordinary humdrum human had an effect of
dignity, of importance, in such old-world surroundings.  It gratified Pixie's keen sense of
what it dramatically termed "a situation" to place herself in this point of vantage and act
the part of audience; and to-day, though no one more interesting than a gardener was likely
to appear, she yet made instinctively for the accustomed place.  The sombre green of the yew
was more in accord with her mood than the riot of blossom in the gardens beyond, and she was
out of sight of those terrible upper windows.  At any moment, as it seemed, a hand from within
might stretch out to lower those blinds ...  Could one live through the moment that saw them fall?

Pixie leaned back in her seat, and lived dreamily over the happenings of the last three days.
The morning after the accident the three visitors had made haste to pack, and depart in different
directions--Honor and Robert Carr to town, Stanor Vaughan to friends at the other side of the
county.  Honor had relied on Robert's escort, but he had hurried off by the nine o'clock train,
excusing himself on the score of urgent business, which fact added largely to the girl's depression.

It was four, o'clock.  All day long Pixie had been alone, unneeded, unobserved, for Joan refused
to leave the nursery floor, even for meals, and Geoffrey remained by her side.  Looking back
over the whole course of her life, the girl could not remember a time when she had been so
utterly thrown on herself.  Always there had been some one at hand to love, to pity, to demand.
At school, at the time of her father's death, there had been a bevy of dear girl friends--saintly
Margaret, spectacled Kate, Clara of the high forehead and long upper lip, Lottie, pretty and
clever, each vieing with the other to minister to her needs.  Pixie followed in thought the
history of each old friend.  Margaret had become a missionary and had sailed for far-off China,
Clara was mistress in a High School, Lottie lived in India, married to a soldier husband, Kate
was domiciled as governess in Scotland.  All were far away, all engrossed in new interests,
new surroundings.

Later on, in Pixie's own life, a lonely time had come when she had been sent to Paris, to finish
her education in the home of the dear school Mademoiselle.  She had been lonely then, it is
true--homesick, homeland-sick, so sick that she had even contemplated running away.  But how
good they had been to her;--Mademoiselle and her dear old father-- how wise, how tactful, above
all, how kind!  Monsieur had died a few years before and gone to his last "repose," and Mademoiselle--marvellous
and incredible fact--Mademoiselle had married a grey-bearded, bald-headed personage whom her
English visitor had mentally classed as a contemporary of "mon pere" and tottering on the verge
of dotage.  It appeared, however, by after accounts, that he was barely fifty, which Dick Victor
insisted was an age of comparative vigour.  "Quite a suitable match!" he had pronounced it,
but Pixie obstinately withheld her approval.  Mademoiselle, as mademoiselle, would have been
a regular visitor for life; Madame, the wife of a husband exigent in disposition, and deeply
distrustful of "le mer" must perforce stay dutifully at home in Paris, and was therefore lost
to her English friends.

Ah!  The years--what changes they brought!  What toll they demanded!  So many friends lost
to sight, drifted afar by the stream of life.  So many changes, so many breaks.  What would
the years bring next?

Pixie shut her eyes and leaned back in her seat, and being young, and sad, and faint, and hungry,
and very, very tired, Mother Nature came to her aid, and laying gentle fingers on the closed
lids sealed them in sleep, her kindliest gift.

Pixie slept, and round the corner of this straight green hedge fate came marching towards her,
with footsteps growing momentarily louder, and louder upon the gravel path.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE.

Stanor Vaughan stood with his hands thrust deep into his pockets looking down upon Pixie's
pale, unconscious face.  He had motored thirty miles to hear the latest news of the little
patient--that was certainly one reason of his visit; but a second had undoubtedly been to see
once more the little patient's aunt!  At the house he had been informed that Miss O'Shaughnessy
was in the garden, and had tracked her without difficulty to her favourite seat, and now there
she lay, poor, sweet, tired little soul!  With her head tilted back against the hedge, and
the wee mites of hands crossed upon her lap--an image of weariness and dejection.

Stanor Vaughan felt within him the stirrings of tenderness and pity with which a strong man
regards weakness in any form.  Pixie was by nature such a jaunty little thing that it seemed
doubly pathetic to see her so reduced.  A fellow wanted to take her up in his arms, and comfort
her, and make her smile again.  A flush rose in Stanor's cheeks as he recalled an incident
of the night of the accident.  After the hurried return to the house, the three guests had
sat alone, waiting in miserable suspense for the doctor's verdict, but Pixie had disappeared.
No one knew where she had gone.  Honor searched for her in vain, and at last in an access of
anxiety Stanor himself took up the quest.  He found her at last, perched on the wide window-seat
of an upper window, but all his persuasions could not move her from her post.

"Let me stay here!" she persisted.  "It comforts me.  I can see--I can see the lights!"

"You mean the motor lamps as they come up the drive?"

"No," she said simply, "I mean the stars."

Stanor was as unimaginative as most men of his age, and his first impression was that the poor
little thing was off her head.  He crept downstairs and rang for a basin of the good warm soup
with which he and his companions had been provided an hour before.  When it was brought he
carried the tray carefully up three long flights of stairs, and besought of Pixie to drink
it forthwith.

She shook her head, and all his persuasions could not rouse her to the exertion; but being
an obstinate young man, he but set his lips and determined to succeed.

This time, however, he resorted to force instead of persuasion, for, having placed the tray
on a corner of the sill, he filled the spoon with soup and held it determinedly to the girl's
lips.  Now, if she moved or made a fuss, the soup would assuredly be spilled, and no living
girl would voluntarily pour soup over her frock!  But Pixie made no fuss. Meekly, obediently
as a little bird, she opened her lips, and swallowed, and swallowed again and again, until
the bowl was emptied of its contents.  There was something so trustful and unconscious about
the action that the young man felt the smart of tears in his eyes--the first tears he had known
for many a long year.

When the soup had been finished he went away again, and came back with a warm shawl which he
had procured from a maid.  In wrapping it round the quiescent figure his hands had accidentally
come in contact with hers, and finding them cold as ice, it seemed the natural thing to chafe
them gently between his own.  Quite natural also Pixie appeared to find the action, for the
cold little fingers had tightened affectionately round his own.  It was left to him to flush
and feel embarrassed; Pixie remained placidly unmoved.

The memory of those moments was vivid with Stanor as he stood this morning looking down on
the sleeping girl.  All through the three days of separation her image had pursued him, and
he had longed increasingly to see her again.  The tragic incidents of that long night had had
more effect in strengthening his dawning love than many weeks of placid, uneventful lives.
It had brought them heart to heart, soul to soul; all the little veneers and conventions of
society had been thrust aside, and it seemed to him that the crisis had revealed her altogether
sweet and true.

When a young man is brought suddenly face to face with death, when it is demonstrated before
his eyes that the life of the youngest among us hangs upon a thread, he is in the mood to appreciate
the higher qualities.  Stanor had told himself uneasily that he had been "too slack," that
he had not thought enough about "these things."  The friends with whom he had consorted were
mostly careless pleasure-lovers like himself, but this little girl was made of a finer clay.
To live with her would be an inspiration: she would "pull a fellow together." ...  There was,
however, to be quite honest, another and less worthy impetus which urged Stanor forward, but
over this he preferred to draw a mental veil.  We are all guilty of the absurdity of posing
for our own benefit, and Stanor, like the rest, preferred to believe himself actuated wholly
by lofty motives rather than partially by the wounded pride of a young man who has just discovered
that he has been "managed" by an elder!

He sat down on the seat beside Pixie, and laid his hand gently over hers.  They opened automatically
to receive it; even before she lifted her lids he felt the welcoming touch; and felt it characteristic
of her nature.

"You!" she cried gladly, "Mr Vaughan, 'tis you!  Oh, that's nice! Was I sleeping, that I didn't
see you come?  I thought I should never sleep again.  Jack can't sleep!  If he slept he might
get well."

"He is sleeping now," said Stanor quietly.  "A man was sent to the lodge to answer all inquiries,
so that there should not be even a crunch on the path.  He is sleeping soundly and well.  If
he sleeps on--"

Pixie nodded, her face aglow.

"Oh, thank God!  How I thank Him!  Sleep will make all the difference. ...  Till now it's been
nothing but a moment's nap and awake again, with a scream.  We've agonised for sleep!  I could
not have gone off so soundly if I hadn't known, inside, that Jack was asleep too.  When you
love anyone very, very much, what touches them touches you.  You can't keep apart.  You mayn't
always know it with your mind, but the best part of you, the part that feels, it knows!"

She smiled in his face with frank, glad eyes, but Stanor flushed and looked at the ground.

"Should you know it, if I were unhappy, Pixie?  I should know it about you.  I came this afternoon
partly, mostly, because I knew how you'd be feeling, and I thought, I hoped, that I might help.
Does it help you, Pixie, to have me sitting beside you, instead of being alone?  Ought I to
have come, or stayed away?"

"I'm glad you came; I love to have you.  I've been sad before this, but I've never been sad
by myself!  Esmeralda isn't my sister at this moment, she's just Jack's mother, and there's
only one person who can help her, and that is Jack's father.  Later on 'twill change!"  A flash
of joy lit up the white face.  "Do you know what I'm waiting for?  If Jack lives, as soon as
he's conscious and out of pain he'll send for me! He'll want me to tell him stories, and the
stronger he grows the more stories he'll want!  He'll need me then--they'll all need me!"

"Of course they'll need you.  Other people need you, Pixie, besides your relations.  Why do
you always go back to them?  I was speaking of myself.  I need you!  I've felt all at sea without
you these last days.  I never met a girl like you before.  Most girls are all one way or another--so
serious that they're dull, or so empty-headed that it's a waste of time to talk to them.  You--you
are such a festive little thing, Pixie; a fellow could never be dull in your company, and yet
you're so good!  You have such sweet thoughts; you are so unselfish, so kind."

"Go on!" cried Pixie urgently.  "Go on!"  Her cheeks had flushed, her eyes sparkled with animation.
"It's the most reviving thing in the world to hear oneself praised, I could listen to it for
hours.  In what particular way, now, would you say that I was `sweet?'"

She peered at him, complacent, curious, blightingly unconscious of his emotions, and the young
man felt a stirring of hot impatience. Insinuation and innuendo were of no use where Pixie
O'Shaughnessy was concerned; an ordinary girl might scent a proposal afar off and amuse herself
by an affectation of innocence, but nothing short of a plain declaration of love would convince
Pixie of his sincerity.

"Pixie," he said suddenly, "look at me!"  He took her hands in his, and drew her round so as
to face him as they sat.  "Look at me, Pixie," he repeated.  "Look in my eyes.  Tell me, what
do you see?"

Pixie looked, her own eyes wide and amazed.  Her fingers stirred within his hands with a single
nervous twitch, and then lay still, while into her eyes crept an expression of wonder and awe.

"I don't know.--I don't know. ...  What do I see?"

"Love, Pixie!  My love.  My love for you. ...  I've fallen in love with you, darling; didn't
you know?  I knew it that last evening when we were together upstairs.  I've known it better
and better each day since; and to-day I couldn't stay away, I couldn't wait any longer. ...
Pixie, do you love me too?"

"Of course I love you.  How could I help it?" cried Pixie warmly.  Her fingers tightened round
his with affectionate pressure, her eyes beamed encouragingly upon him.

Never could there have been a warmer, a more spontaneous response, and yet, strange to relate,
its very ardour had a chilling effect, for Stanor, though young, was experienced enough to
realise that it is not in this fashion that a girl receives a declaration of love from the
man of her heart.  He himself had struggled with shyness and agitation; he was conscious of
flushed cheeks, of a hoarseness of voice, of the beating of pulses; then surely a girl taken
by surprise, faced suddenly, with the question of such enormous import, should not be less
moved than he.

The words died upon his lips; involuntarily his hands relaxed their grasp.  There was a moment
of impossible impasse and strain before, with a realised effort, he forced himself to express
a due delight.

"That makes me very happy, Pixie.  I--I was afraid you might not care. I'm not half good enough
for you, I know that, but I'll do my best. I'll do everything I can to make you happy.  I'm
not rich, you know, darling; we should have to live on what I can make independently of the
uncle, for he has peculiar views.  He doesn't wish me to marry."

"Marry!" repeated Pixie deeply.  She sat bolt upright in her seat, her eyes suddenly alight
with interest and excitement.  Incredible as it might appear, Stanor realised that this was
the first moment when the idea of marriage had entered her brain.  "Is it marrying you are
talking about?  You want me to marry you?"

"You funny little soul.  Of course I want it.  Why else should I talk about loving?"

"I thought," she said sighing, "it was just nice feeling!  It's natural for people to love
each other.  When they live together in the same house and come through trouble. ...  And we're
both attractive. ...  You don't need to marry every one you love!"

"I do," declared Stanor, "when it's a girl--when it's you!  I want to have you for my own,
and keep you to myself, and how can I do that if you're not my wife?  If you love me, you must
want to be with me too. Don't you, dear, don't you wish it?  Shouldn't you like to be my wife?"

Pixie tilted her head in her well-known attitude of consideration.

"I--I think I should!" she pronounced judicially.  "I liked you from the moment we met, and
you've a good disposition.  Dispositions are important in marriage.  And I'm domestic; you
like domestic girls, and it's convenient when you're poor. ...  On how much a head would you
expect me to keep house?"

But that was too much for Stanor's endurance; he seized her in his strong arms and shook her
with a tender violence.

"Pixie, you little witch, don't be so blightingly matter-of-fact!  I'm making you a declaration
of love.  Kindly receive it in a suitable fashion. ...  A--a fellow expects a girl to be a
little--er--sentimental and poetic, and--er--overcome, don't you know, not to begin at once
to talk of how much a head!"

"I've never been proposed to before.  You must excuse me if I make mistakes.  I'm quite willing
to be sentimental; I dote upon sentiment," declared Pixie in anxious propitiation. ...  "Let's
go back to where you were talking about me!  Tell me exactly what it is that you most admire?"

Stanor had been hoping for a little adulation for himself, but he gallantly stifled his feelings
and proceeded to offer the incense which he believed would be most acceptable.

"Your character, darling.  Your sweet and tender heart!"

"How nice," said Pixie flatly.  She sat silent for a moment and then ventured tentatively,
"Not my personal charm?"

"And your personal charm.  Both!  You've more personal charm than any girl I know."

This was something like!  Pixie beamed content.  At this moment she felt really "engaged,"
and agreed rapturously with all the encomiums which she had heard given to this happy condition.
Success emboldened her to further flights.

"The first time you met me you didn't admire me then!  My appearance, I mean!  You remember
you said--"

"I did.  Yes!  But you were so sweet in forgiving me that I admired you instantly for that!"
cried Stanor, skilfully turning the subject to safer ground.  "And when you're my wife, Pixie,
you will seem the most beautiful woman in the world in my eyes.  It is very unworldly of you
to consent without asking more about my affairs, for I am a poor match for you, little one.
It takes years for a man to make a decent income in business, and I have so little experience.
My uncle has always promised to buy me a partnership in some good firm, but of course there
would have to be some preliminary training.  And if he did not ... approve..."

"But he must approve; we must make him.  We couldn't marry without his consent.  He's been
so good to you!"

"He has, uncommonly good; but when it comes to marrying, it's a fellow's own affair.  I shall
go my own way..."

"He's lame!"

"Dear little girl, what has that to do with the case in point?"

"Well, I think it has!" persisted Pixie obstinately.  "It has to me.  We must be nice to him,
Stanor, and make him be pleased, whether he wants to or not. ...  Did you notice how naturally
I called you `Stanor'?"

"I did!  Couldn't you manage to put something before it by way, of completion?"

"Nice Stanor!  Handsome Stanor!  Clever, sensible, discriminating Stanor!"

"Quite so," said the discriminating one dryly, "but I should have liked--" Suddenly he burst
into a ringing boyish laugh.  "This is the rummiest proposal that was ever made!"

Pixie looked anxious.

"Is it?  `Rum'?  What exactly does `rum' mean, applied to a proposal? It didn't sound approving.
It's my very own proposal, and I won't have it abused.  I've enjoyed it very much. ...  I think
we shall be very happy, Stanor, when we are married and settled down in our own little house."

Stanor looked at her keenly, and as he looked he sighed.

"Dear little Pixie," he said gently, "I hope we shall!"

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

ESMERALDA IS TROUBLED.

"Engaged!" cried Esmeralda shrilly.  "Engaged!  You!  To Stanor Vaughan? Pixie O'Shaughnessy,
I never heard such nonsense in my life."

"Then you've listened to an uncommon amount of sense.  I should not have thought it, to judge
from your actions," returned Pixie, nettled, "'Twould be interesting to hear what strikes you
as so ridiculous about it!"

It was three days after Stanor's unexpected visit with its momentous consequences, but in consideration
of the anxiety of Jack's parents, the news had been withheld until the boy had been pronounced
out of danger. Only this morning had the glad verdict been vouchsafed.  Jack would live; given
a steady, even improvement, with no unforeseen complications, he would live, and in a few weeks
time be up and about once more.  The eye trouble would be more lasting, for the child was of
a peculiarly sensitive nature, and the shock seemed inclined to localise itself in the eyes.
The sight itself would be saved, but for some years to come it would need the most careful
tending.  He must wear darkened spectacles; be forbidden to read; be constantly under skilled
care. Given such precautions the sight would probably become normal in later years...

When the first verdict was given, the father, and mother clung to one another in an ecstasy
of relief and thankfulness.  Throughout those last terrible days, when every conscious breath
had carried with it a prayer, Joan had looked deep into her own soul and beheld with opened
eyes the precipice on which she stood.  How far, how far she had travelled since those early
married days, when, with her first-born in her arms, her highest ambition had been that she
should be enabled so to train him that he should grow up, to be, in the words of the beautiful
old phrase, "A soldier of Christ!"  Of late years she had had many ambitions for her boys,
but they had been ambitions of the world, worldly.  The old faith had been gradually neglected
and allowed to sink into the background of life.  In her own strength she had walked, in her
own weakness she had failed.  Yet now, in default of punishment, goodness and mercy were once
more to be her portion!  All the nobility in Joan's nature rose up as she pledged herself afresh
to a new--a higher life!  Jack would live, their boy would live--that was for days the one
thought of which the parents were conscious.  For the father it was perfect joy, but for the
mother there still remained a pang.  Only Esmeralda herself ever knew the anguish of grief
which she endured on account of her baby's altered looks.  Little Jack, with his angel face,
his halo of curls, his exquisite, innocent eyes, had been a joy to behold.  Waking, sleeping,
merry, sad--at one and every moment, of his life the mere sight of him had been as an open
sesame to the hearts of those who beheld.  The knife turned in his mother's heart at the thought
of Jack shorn, scarred, spectacled.  She dared not confide her grief to her husband.  He would
not understand.  Looks!  What could looks matter, when the child had been delivered from death?
Joan could see in imagination the expression on his face, hear the shocked tones of his voice;
she would not betray her feelings and risk a break of the new, sweet understanding between
them.  All men were alike.  There were occasions when only another woman could understand.

Joan went upstairs to the empty nursery and found Marie weeping in her chair.

"Petite lapin!  Petite cherie!  Petite ange!  Comfort thyself, Madame," she sobbed, "we can
have glasses like the young American--she who visited Madame last year.  No rims hardly to
be observed!  And the hair--that will grow--of a surety it will grow.  A little long upon the
forehead, and voila!  The scar is hid. ...  A little care, Madame, a little patience, and he
will be once more our petit amour!"

"Marie," said her mistress firmly, "looks are a secondary affair.  We ought to be too thankful
to think of looks!"

"C'est vrai, Madame," replied Marie demurely, "C'est vrai," and Joan Hilliard went back to
her room with a lightened heart, and determined to write at once to town to ask particulars
concerning rimless spectacles.

And now here was Pixie, with this preposterous, ridiculous tale!  At sight of her young sister
Joan had felt a pang of contrition.  She had forgotten all about her these last terrible days.
Poor girl!  She must have been terribly lonely, but that was the best of Pixie--she was always
ready to forgive and forget.  Joan kissed her warmly, murmured apologies, and inquired affectionately
how the long days had been passed.  And then--out it came!

"Why ridiculous?" echoed Joan.  "My dear, how could it be anything else? Five days ago, when
we were all together, there wasn't a sign of such a thing.  Stanor was attracted by you, of
course; but he was not in love. He was always cheerful, always merry.  How different from poor
Robert, who is eating his heart out for Honor Ward!"

"I hope," said Pixie deeply, "that Stanor will always keep cheerful. It won't be my fault if
he does not.  No man shall `eat his heart out' for me if I can help it!"

Joan glanced at her quickly.  She had caught the tone of pain in the beautiful voice, and softened
to it with instant response.

"Yes, dear, of course.  You'd never flirt, you're too honest, but, all the same, Pixie, I stick
to my opinion.  I don't believe for a moment that Stanor Vaughan is in love with you, and I'm
positively sure that you are not in love with him!"

"Can you look into my heart, Esmeralda, and see what is there?"

"Yes, I can.  In this instance I can.  Fifty times better than you can yourself.  You are pleased,
you are flattered, you are interested.  You were miserable and lonely, (that's my fault, for
leaving you alone.  I don't know what Bridgie will say to me!) and Stanor was sorry for you,
you appealed to his chivalry, and you were just in the mood to be swept off your feet, without
realising what it all meant.  Pixie, when you told me just now, you were quite calm, you never
even blushed!"

"I don't think," reflected Pixie thoughtfully, "I ever blushed in my life."

It occurred to her uncomfortably that Stanor also had noticed the omission, and had felt himself
defrauded thereby.  She wondered uneasily if one could learn to blush!

As for Esmeralda, the words carried her back in a rush to the dear days of childhood, when
the little sister had been the pet and pride of the family.  Indeed, and Pixie had had no need
to blush!  Her very failings had been twisted round to pose as so many assets in her favour,
while her own happy self-confidence had instilled the belief that every one wanted her, every
one appreciated.  What cause had Pixie O'Shaughnessy to blush?

"Mavourneen!" cried Esmeralda tenderly, "I know.  Thank God you've never needed to blush or
feel afraid, but, Pixie, when love comes, it's different, everything is different!  It's a
new birth.  The old confidence goes, for it's a new life that lies ahead, and one stands trembling
on the brink. ...  If what you feel is the right thing, you'll understand.  Pixie, dear, do
I seem the wrong person to talk like this? You know how it has been with us.  We drifted apart--Geoff
and I--so far apart that I thought ...  I can't talk of it--you know what I thought-- but,
Pixie think!  If the feeling between us had not been the real thing, if we had married on affection
only, where should we have been now?  Geoffrey loved me so much that he bore with me, through
all these years of strain, and when this great trouble came, he forgave me at once, forgave
everything, blotted it right out, and thought of nothing but how to help me most.  A cloud
had rolled up between us, but it was only a cloud, the love was there all the time, hidden,
like the sun, ready to shine out again. ...  Oh, Pixie, dear, the right thing is so wonderful,
so grand, that I can't let you miss it for the sake of a mistake.  You are so young.  You don't
understand.  Let me write to Stanor to-night and tell him it's a mistake, that you didn't know
your own mind!"

"You may talk till doomsday, Esmeralda," said Pixie quietly, "but I shall keep my word!"

Mentally Pixie had been deeply impressed by the other's confidences, and not a little perturbed
thereby, but it was against her sense of loyalty to allow such feelings to appear.  To her
own heart she confessed that she was altogether without this strange sense of elation, this
mysterious new birth which Esmeralda considered all important under the circumstances.  She
was certainly happy, for with Stanor's coming the cloud which had hovered over the house had
begun to disperse.  She had opened her own eyes to the good news of Jack's first sleep, and
each day the improvement had continued, while Stanor motored over, to sit by her side, cheering
her, saying loving, gentle things, building castles in the air of a life together. ...  Yes,
she was very happy, but ... she had been happy before, there was nothing astoundingly, incredibly
new in her sensations.

Pixie sent her thoughts back into the past, endeavouring to recall recollections of Joan's
engagement, of Bridgie's, of Jack's.  Yes, certainly they had all become exceedingly different
under the new conditions.  She recalled in especial Bridgie's face beneath her bridal veil.
Child as she herself had been at that time she had been arrested by that expression: nor had
she been allowed to forget it, for from time to time during the last six years she had seen
it again.  "The shiny look!" she had christened it in her thoughts.  Sweet and loving were
Bridgie's eyes for every soul that breathed, but that one particular look shone for one person
alone!  Pixie's heart contracted in a pang of longing; it was almost like the pang she had
felt in the drawing-room of Holly House on that dread afternoon when the news of her father's
death had been broken to her--a pang of longing, a sore, sore feeling of something wanting.
She shivered, then drew herself together with indignant remembrance.  She was engaged!  What
sentiments were these for an engaged girl?  How could she feel a blank when still more love
was added to her share?

"If you talk till doomsday, Esmeralda, I'll keep my word.  Stanor loves me and says I can help
him.  I said I would, and, me dear, I will! We've been through a lot of trouble this last week,
isn't it a pity to try to make more for no good?  My mind's made up!"

Joan Hilliard was silent.  In her heart of hearts she realised that there was nothing more
to say.  Pixie was Pixie.  As well try to move a mountain from its place, as persuade that
sweet, loving, most loyal of creatures to draw back from a solemn pledge.  Something might
be done with Stanor perhaps, or, failing Stanor, through that erratic person, his uncle.  She
must consult with Geoffrey and Bridgie, together they might insist upon a period of waiting
and separation before a definite engagement was announced.  Pixie was still under age.  Until
her twenty-first birthday her guardians might safely demand a delay.  Joan knew that Stanor
Vaughan had had passing fancies before now, and had little belief that the present entanglement
would prove more lasting. Circumstances had induced a special intimacy with Pixie, but when
they were separated he would repent.--If he himself set Pixie free! ...  So far did Joan's
thoughts carry her, then, looking at the girl's happy face, she felt a sharp pang of contrition.

"Me dear, I want you to be happy!  If it makes you happy to marry Stanor, I'll give you my
blessing, and the finest trousseau that money can buy.  You're young yet, and he has his way
to make.  You'll have to wait patiently, for a few years, until he can make a home, but it's
a happy time, being engaged.  I feel defrauded myself to have had so little of it.  Storing
up things in a bottom drawer, and picking up old furniture at sales, and polishing it up so
lovingly, thinking of where it is going, and letters coming and going, and looking forward
to the time when he'll come down next--'tis a beautiful time.  Three or four years ought to
pass like a trice!"

"Besides leaving plenty of time to change your mind.  I know you, me dear!" cried Pixie shrewdly.
"I see through you!  You'll be relieved to hear that the date has not been mentioned, but you
can start with the trousseau as soon as you please.  I'll take it in quarterly instalments,
and spin out the pleasure, besides sparing my friends the shock of seeing me suddenly turn
grand.  My affianced suitor is coming to proffer a formal demand for my hand.  Will ye be kind
to him now, and give him some tea?"

"I will," said Joan readily.  To herself she added: "We are all alike, we O'Shaughnessys, we
will be led, but we will not be driven.  It's no use appearing to object!  Things must just
take their course..."

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

THE "RUNKLE" INTERVENES.

As little Jack continued to progress towards convalescence, the attention of the household
became increasingly absorbed by the astounding fact of Pixie's projected engagement.  Bridgie,
detained at home by malapropos ailments on the part of the children, wrote urgent letters by
daily posts, contradicting herself on every point saving one alone--the advisability of delay.
Geoffrey Hilliard as host, Dick Victor as guardian, Jack, Pat, and Miles as brothers, proposed,
seconded, and carried by acclamation the same waiting policy.  And no one who has the faintest
knowledge of human nature will need to be told that such an attitude had the effect of rousing
the youthful lovers to the liveliest impatience.

Stanor in particular was moved to rebellion.  His pride was hurt by so lukewarm a reception
of his addresses, which was all the more disagreeable for being unexpected.  The Hilliards
had shown so much friendship and hospitality to him as a friend, that he had taken for granted
that they would welcome him in a closer relationship.  He was not a great parti it was true,
but then by her own confession Pixie had no fortune of her own, and had been accustomed to
modest means. Stanor did not say to himself in so many words that he happened to possess an
exceptionally handsome and popular personality, he refused even to frame a definite thought
to that effect; nevertheless the consciousness was there, and added to his chagrin.

Lounging along the country lanes, his hands thrust deep into his pockets, Stanor told himself
that it was a disappointing old world: a fellow always imagined that when he got engaged he
would have the time of his life; in books a fellow was represented as walking upon air, in
a condition of rapture too intense for belief--it was disappointing to find his own experience
fall so short of the ideal!

Sweet little Pixie, of course, was a beguiling creature.  Stanor would not admit any shortcomings
in his fiancee, but he did allow himself to wonder tentatively if he had spoken too soon: if
she were not, perhaps, a trifle young to understand the meaning of the new claim.  The daily
interviews which he had been vouchsafed had been full of interest and charm, but they had not
succeeded in stifling the doubt which had marred the first minutes of acceptance, for alas!
it was when Pixie was the most affectionate that her lover was most acutely conscious of the
subtle want.  And then, as if there was not already enough worry and trouble, there was the
Runkle. ...  The Runkle would be bound to put in his oar!

Stanor had delayed sending word of his engagement to the man who stood to him in the place
of a father, silencing his conscience by the assertion that there was yet nothing to announce.
Until Pixie's guardians came down from their present unnatural position, there might be an
understanding, but there could not be said to be a formal engagement.

It was Pixie herself who finally forced him to dispatch the news.  It was Stanor's first experience
of arguing a point with a woman, and a most confusing experience he found it.  Pixie invariably
agreed with every separate argument as he advanced it, saw eye to eye with him on each separate
point, sympathised warmly with his scruples, and then at the very moment when she was expected
to say "yes" to the final decision, said "no," and stuck to it with conviction.  Questioned
as to the reason of such inconsistency, she had only one excuse to plead, and she pled it so
often and with such insistence that it seemed easier to give in than to continue the argument.
"Yes, but he's lame!" came back automatically as the answer to every remonstrance, till Stanor
shrugged his shoulders and sat down to write his letter.

Pixie was indeed, as the family had it, "the soft-heartedest creature!"  He loved her for it,
but none the less depression seized him anew.  Now there would be the Runkle to tackle!  More
arguments!  More objections!  A fellow ought to be jolly happy when he was married, to make
up for all the fuss and agitation which went before...

Stanor's letter of announcement was short and to the point, for he was not in the mood to lapse
into sentiment.  By return of post came the Runkle's reply, short also, and non-committal--nothing
more, in fact, than the announcement that he preferred to discuss the matter in person, and
would the following day arrive at a certain hotel, where he bade his nephew meet him.  Stanor
therefore made his excuses to his hostess, packed his bag, and dispatched a letter of explanation
to his fiancee, unconscious of the fact that she was at that very hour receiving information
first hand.

It came about in the most natural, and simple fashion.  As Pixie, roaming the grounds bareheaded
to gather a bouquet of wild flowers to present to the little invalid, emerged suddenly upon
the drive, she found a tall, grey-coated stranger leaning against a tree in an attitude expressive
of collapse.  He was very tall, and very thin; the framework of his shoulders was high and
broad, but from them the coat seemed to flap around a mere skeleton of a frame.  His hair was
dark, his complexion pale, and leaning back with closed eyes he looked so alarmingly ill and
spent, that, dropping the flowers to the ground, Pixie leaped forward to the rescue.

"You're ill. ...  Let me help!  There's a seat close by. ...  Lean on me!"

The stranger opened his eyes, and Pixie started as most people did start when they first looked
into Stephen Glynn's eyes, which were of that deep, intense blue which is romantically dubbed
purple and fringed with dark lashes, which added still further to their depth.  They were sad
eyes, tired eyes, eyes of an exceeding and pitiful beauty, eloquent of suffering and repression.
They looked out under dark, level brows, and with their intense earnestness of expression flooded
the thin face with life.  As she met their gaze Pixie drew a quick, gasping breath of surprise.

The stranger in his turn looked surprised and startled; he bent his head in involuntary salute,
and glanced down at the tiny arm offered for his support.  Six foot two he stood in his stockinged
feet, and there was this scrap of a girl offering her little doll-like arm for support!  His
lips twitched, and Pixie pounced on the meaning with her usual agility.

"But I'm wiry," she announced proudly.  "You wouldn't believe my strength till you try it.
Just for a few yards. ...  Round the corner by the oak-tree.  Please!"

"You are too kind.  I am not ill, but the walk from the station is very steep and I found it
tiring, that's all.  I shall be glad to rest for a moment, but I assure you no help is needed."

He took a step forward as he spoke, a quick, halting step, and Pixie looking on, exclaimed
sharply--

"The Runkle!  Stanor's Runkle!  It is You!"

The stranger looked down sharply, his dark brows puckering in astonishment.

"I am Stephen Glynn--`The Runkle,' as my nephew is pleased to call me. But you--you cannot be--"

Pixie nodded vehemently.

"I am!--Pixie O'Shaughnessy.  Going to be your niece.  I made Stanor write to tell you.--"

They seated themselves on the bench under the oak-tree, and turning, faced each other in a
long, curious silence, during which each face assumed a puzzled expression.

"But you are younger than I expected!" cried Pixie.

"That is exactly what I was on the point of saying to you," returned Mr Glynn.

"And yet we know exactly how old we both are--twenty and thirty-five!" Pixie continued volubly.
"But you know how it is with young men--they have no patience to explain!  You'd be amused
if you could see the image I'd made of you in my own mind.  I expect 'twas the same with yourself?"

"It was," agreed Mr Glynn, and for a moment imagined that his disappointment was his own secret--only
for a moment, however, then Pixie tilted her head at him with a sideways nod of comprehension.

"Knowing, of course, that I was a sister of the beautiful Mrs Hilliard! No wonder you are disappointed!"
The eyes smiled sympathy at him, and the wide lips parted in the friendliest of smiles.  "You'll
like me better when you know me!"

"I--I am quite sure," stammered Mr Glynn, and then drew himself up suddenly, as if doubtful
if agreement were altogether polite under the circumstances.  Once more his lips twitched,
and as their eyes met he and Pixie collapsed together into an irresistible laugh.  He laughed
well, a rare and charming accomplishment, and Pixie regarded him with benign approval.

"Quite romantic, isn't it?  The noble kinsman journeying in state to demand the hand of the
charming maid, falls ill of the perils of the way, and encounters a simple cottage maid gathering
flowers, who succours the stranger in distress.  Their identity is then revealed. ... I do
love romances!" cried Pixie gushingly.  "And it's much nicer having an interview out here than
in a stuffy room ...  Please, Mr Kinsman--begin!"

He frowned, bit at his under lip, and moved restlessly on the seat, glancing once and again
at the girl's bright, unclouded face.

"I'm afraid," he began slowly, "that the matter is not altogether as simple as you suppose.
Stanor is not in a position to marry without my consent.  I think he has not sufficiently appreciated
this fact.  If he had consulted me in the first instance I should have endeavoured to prevent--"

She turned her eyes upon him like a frightened child.  There was no trace of anger, nor wounded
pride--those he could have faced with ease-- but the simple shock of the young face smote on
his heart.

"I had not seen you, remember!" he cried quickly.  "My decision had no personal element.  I
object at this stage to Stanor becoming engaged to--anybody.  He has, no doubt, explained to
you our relationship.  His parents being dead, I made myself responsible for his training.
He may have explained to you also my wish that for a few years he should be free to enjoy his
youth without any sense of responsibility?"

Pixie nodded gravely.

"He has.  I understood.  You had missed those years yourself, and knew they could never come
back, so you gave them to him as a gift--young, happy years without a care, that he could treasure
up in his mind and remember all his life.  'Twas a big gift!  Stanor, and I are grateful to you--"

Stephen Glynn looked at her: a long, thoughtful glance.  The programme which he had mapped
out for his nephew had been unusual enough to attract much notice.  He had been alternately
annoyed and amused by the criticism of his neighbours, all of whom seemed incapable of understanding
his real motives.  It seemed a strange thing that it should be reserved for this slip of a
girl to see into his inmost heart. He was touched and impressed, but that "Stanor and I" hardened
him to his task.

"Thank you.  You do understand.  At the moment Stanor may perhaps be inclined to question the
wisdom of my programme, but I think in after years he will, as you say, look back.  The fact
remains, however, that he has not yet tackled the real business of life.  He has had, with
my concurrence, plenty of change and variety, which I believe in the end will prove of service
in his life's work, and he has stood the test. Many young fellows of his age would have abused
their opportunities.  He has not done so.  My only disappointment has been that he has developed
no definite taste, but has been content to flit from one fancy to the next, always carried
away by the latest novelty on the horizon."

Once again she tilted her head and scanned him with her wide, clear eyes.

"You mean Me?" she said quickly.  "I'm the `Latest Novelty!'  You mean that he'll change about
me, too?  Isn't that what you mean?"

"My dear--Miss O'Shaughnessy," (incredible though it appeared, Stephen had been on the verge
of saying "Pixie," pure and simple) "you leap too hastily to conclusions.  I am afraid I must
appear an odious person! Believe me, I had no intention of rushing into the very heart of this
matter as we have done.  My plan was to call upon your sister and explain to her my position--"

"'Tis not my sister's business, 'tis mine," interrupted Pixie firmly. "And it would be a waste
of time talking to her, for she'd agree with every word you said.  They don't want me to be
engaged.  They think I'm too young.  If you have anything to say, say it to Me.  I'm the person
to be convinced."

She settled herself more comfortably as she spoke, turning towards him with one arm resting
on the back of the bench, and her head leaning against the upturned hand.  The sun shone on
her face through the flickering branches.  No, she was not pretty; not in the least the sort
of girl Stanor was accustomed to fancy.  Yet there was something extraordinarily attractive
about the little face, with its clear eyes, its wide, generous mouth, its vivacity of expression.
Already, after a bare ten minutes' acquaintance, Stephen Glynn so shrank from the prospect
of hurting Pixie O'Shaughnessy that it required an effort to keep an unflinching front.

"I agree with your people," he said resolutely, "that you and Stanor are too young, and that
this matter has been settled too hastily.  Apart from that, I should object to any engagement
until he has proved his ability to work for a wife.  I have a position in view for him in a
large mercantile house in New York.  After a couple of years' experience there he would come
back to the London house, and, if his work justified it, I am prepared to buy him a partnership
in the firm.  He would then be his own master, free to do as he chose, but for these two years
he must be free, with no other responsibility than this work."

"You think," queried Pixie slowly, "that I should interfere ... that he would do his work better
without me?"

"It's not a question of thinking, Miss O'Shaughnessy.  I am not content to think.  I want to
make sure that Stanor will settle seriously to work and keep in the same mind.  He is a good
fellow, a dear fellow, but, hitherto at least, he has not been stable."

"He has never been engaged before?"

"Not actually.  I have been forewarned in time to prevent matters reaching that length.  Twice
over--"

A small hand waved imperiously for silence.

"I don't think," said Pixie sternly, "that you have any right to tell me things like that.
If Stanor wants me to know, he can tell me himself.  It's his affair.  I am not at all curious."
She drew a fluttering breath, and stared down at the ground, and a silence followed during
which Stephen was denouncing himself as a hard-hearted tyrant, when suddenly a minute voice
spoke in his ear--

"Were they--pretty?"

It was impossible to resist the smile which twitched at his lips. Unpleasant as was the nature
of his errand, he, the most unsmiling of men, had already twice over been moved to merriment.
Stephen was reflecting on the incongruity of the fact, when Pixie again answered his unspoken
retort.

"It's not curiosity, it's interest.  Quite a different thing!  And even if they were, it's
much more serious when a man cares for a girl for her--er--mental attractions, because they
go on getting better, instead of fading away like a pretty face.  It's very difficult to know
what is right. ...  I've promised Stanor, and he has promised me, and it seems a poor way of
showing that you know your own mind, to break your word at the beginning!"

"I don't ask you to break your word, Miss O'Shaughnessy; only to hold it in abeyance.  I am
speaking in Stanor's interests, which we have equally at heart.  I know his character--forgive
me!--better than you can do, and I am asking you to help me in arranging a probation which
I know to be wise under the circumstances.  Let him go to New York a free man; let him work
and show his mettle, and at the end of two years, if you are both of the same mind, I will
give you every help in my power: but meantime there must be no engagement, no tie, no regular
correspondence.  You must both be perfectly free.  I am sorry to appear hard-hearted, but these
are my conditions, and I can't see my way to alter them."

"Well--why not?" cried Pixie unexpectedly.  "What's two years?  They'll pass in no time.  And
men hate writing.  Stanor will be relieved not to have to bother about the mails.  He can do
without letters.  He will know that I am waiting."  She held out her hand with a sudden, radiant
smile.  "And you will be pleased!  It is the least we can do to consider your wishes.  If I
persuade Stanor--if I send him away alone to work," the small fingers tightened ingratiatingly
over his, "you will like me, won't you?  You will think of me as a real niece?"

Stephen Glynn's deep blue eyes stared deeply into hers.  He did not deliberately intend to
put his thoughts into speech; if he had given himself a moment to think he would certainly
not have done so, but so strong was the mental conviction that the words seemed to form themselves
without his volition.

"You don't love him!  You could not face a separation so easily if you loved him as you should..."

For the first time a flash of real anger showed itself on Pixie's face. Her features hardened;
the child disappeared and he caught a glimpse of the woman that was to be.

"What right have you to say that?" she asked deeply.  "You prove to me that it would be for
Stanor's good to wait, and then say I cannot love him because I agree!  You love him, yet you
can hurt him and bring him disappointment when you feel it is right.  I understood that, so
I was not angry, but in return you might understand me!"

"Forgive me!" cried Stephen.  "I should not have said it.  You deserved a better return for
your kindness.  I suppose I must seem very illogical, but it did not occur to me that the two
cases were on a parallel.  The love of a fiancee is not as a rule as well balanced as that
of an uncle, Miss O'Shaughnessy!"

"It ought to be," asserted Pixie.  "It ought to be everything that another love is, and more!
A man's future wife ought to be the person of all others to be reasonable, and unselfish, and
logical where he is concerned, even if it means separation for a dozen years."

No answer.  Stephen gazed blankly into space as if unconscious of her words.

"Oughtn't she?"

"Er--theoretically, Miss O'Shaughnessy, she ought!"

"Very well, then.  I am proud that I am, and so ought you to be, too. ...  It's strange how
I'm misunderstood!  My family say the same thing-- Esmeralda, Geoffrey, Stanor himself, and
it hurts, for no one before has ever doubted if I could love..."  She was silent for a minute,
twisting her fingers together in restless fashion, then looking suddenly into his face she
asked: "What do you know about it to be so sure?  Have you ever been in love?"

Stephen flushed.

"Never.  No.  I was--My accident cut me off from all such things."

"What a pity!  She would have helped you through."  She smiled into his eyes with a beautiful
sweetness.  "Well, Mr Glynn, if I am too reasonable to please you, perhaps Stanor will make
up for it.  You mayn't find it so easy to influence him."

"I'm sure of that.  I look forward to a stiff time, but if you are on my side we shall bring
him round.  Now perhaps I had better continue my way to the house and see Mrs Hilliard.  This
is pre-eminently your business, as you say, but still--"

"She'll expect it!  Yes--" Pixie rose to her feet with an air of depression--"and she'll crow!
They'll all crow!  It's what they wanted, and when you come and lay down an ultimatum, they'll
rejoice and triumph."  Her small face assumed an aspect of acute dejection.  "That's the worst
of being the youngest. ...  It's a trying thing when your family insist on sitting in committees
about your own affairs, when you understand them so much better yourself.  I'm not even supposed
to understand the feelings of my own heart without a sister to translate them for me.  Shouldn't
you think, now, a girl of twenty--nearly twenty-one--is old enough to know that?"

"I don't think it is a foregone conclusion.  More things than years go to the formation of
character, Miss O'Shaughnessy, and if you will allow me to say so, you seem to me very young
for your age."

"I always was," sighed Pixie sadly.  "They've said that all my life. Some people always are
young, and some are old.  There was a girl at school, middle-aged at thirteen, poor creature,
and had been from her birth.  My sister Bridgie will never be more than seventeen if she lives
to a hundred, and I mean myself to stick at twenty.  It doesn't mean trying to look younger
than you are, or being ashamed of your age, and silly, and frivolous: it's just keeping your
heart young!"

The man, who was young in years and old in heart, looked down at the girl with a very sad smile.
She spoke as if it were such an easy thing to do: he knew by bitter experience that under such
circumstances as his own it was of all tasks the most difficult.  To stand aside during the
best years; to see the tide of life rush by, and have no part in the great enterprise; and
then to regain his powers when youth had passed, and the keen savour of youth had died down
into a dull indifference; to be dependent for love on the careless affection of a lad,--how
was it possible for a man to keep his heart warm in such circumstances as these?

"Life has been kind to you," he answered dryly, and Pixie flung him a quick retort--

"I have been kind to it!  If I'd chosen I might have found it hard enough.  We were always
poor.  I never remember a time when I hadn't to pretend and make up, because it was impossible
to get what I wanted. Then I was sent to school, and I hated going, and my father died when
I was away, and they told me the news with not a soul belonging to me anywhere near, and I
loved my father far more than other girls love theirs! ...  Then we left Knock. ...  If you'd
lived in a castle, and gone to a villa in a street, with a parlour in front and a dining-room
behind looking out on the kitchen wall, you wouldn't talk about life being kind--!

"I was in France for years being educated, and not able to repine because it was a friend and
she'd taken me cheaply.  Perhaps you'd say that was luck, and an advantage, and it was, but
all the same it's hard on a young thing to have to enjoy herself in a foreign language, and
spend the holidays with a maiden lady and a snuffy old Pere, because there wasn't enough money
to come home.  Yes," concluded Pixie, with a smirk of satisfaction, "I've had my trials, and
now I'm to be crossed in love, and have my young lover rent from me. ...  You couldn't have
the audacity to call life easy after that!"

Stephen tried valiantly to look sympathetic, but it was useless; he was obliged to smile, and
Pixie smiled with him, adding cheerily--

"Anyway, it's living! ...  And I do love it when things happen.  It's so dreadfully interesting
to be alive."

The man who was old before his time looked down upon the girl with a wistful glance.  Small
as she was, insignificant as she had appeared at first sight, he had never seen any one more
intensely, vitally alive. Her tiny feet skimmed the ground, her tiny head reared itself jauntily
on the slender neck, the brilliance of her smile, the embracing kindliness of her glance more
than compensated for the plainness of her features.  Like most people who made the acquaintance
of Pixie O'Shaughnessy, Stephen Glynn was already beginning to fall under her spell and marvel
at the blindness of his first impression.  She was not plain; she was not insignificant; she
was, on the contrary, unusually fascinating and attractive!

"But she does not love him," Stephen repeated to himself.  "She does not know what love means.
When she does--when she has grown into a woman, and understands--what a wife, what a companion
she will make!"

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

THINKING ALIKE.

Pixie's prophecy that her relatives would "crow" on hearing Mr Glynn's ultimatum, was fulfilled
in spirit, if not in letter.

Geoffrey and Joan Hilliard assumed their most staid and dignified airs for the important interview,
referred to "my sister Patricia" with a deference worthy of a royal princess, and would have
Stanor's guardian to understand that the man was not born who was worthy to be her spouse;
all the same, as mortal young men went, they had nothing to say against Stanor Vaughan, and
if time proved him to be in earnest, both in love and work, they would be graciously pleased
to welcome him into the family.  Then, the business part of the interview being ended, the
ambassador was invited to stay to lunch, and Esmeralda swept from the room, leaving the two
men to a less formal colloquy over their cigarettes.

"It's a comfort to find that we think alike on this matter," began Geoffrey, holding out a
match for his guest's benefit.  "I have felt rather guilty about it, for Pixie was left too
much to herself during our little fellow's illness.  She was in trouble herself, poor little
soul, and, being lonely, was no doubt unduly susceptible to sympathy. Neither my wife nor I
suspected any attachment before the night of the boy's accident, and if things had gone on
in a normal way I doubt if the engagement would have come off.  Pixie is very young; we have
hardly accustomed ourselves to the idea that she is grown-up.  This is the first visit she
had paid to us by herself, so that we feel responsible."

"You are uncertain of her feelings?  I had the same doubt myself, but when I said as much Miss
O'Shaughnessy was indignant.  She insists that she does love the boy."

Geoffrey Hilliard laughed.

"It would be difficult to find the person whom Pixie does not love. He is handsome, and he
was kind to her when she was lonely.  She loves him as she loves a dozen other friends.  But--"

"But!" repeated Stephen Glynn eloquently.

He who had missed the greatest of earthly gifts yet realised enough of its mystery to join
in that eloquent protest.  He smoked in silence for several moments, while his thoughts wandered
backwards.

"She would have helped you through!"

The echo of those words rang in his ears; he heard again the musical tone of the soft Irish
voice, saw again the sweet, deep glance.  Strange that those words had in the very moment of
utterance uprooted the conviction of years!  Lying prisoner on his couch, he had been thankful,
in a grim, embittered fashion which had belied the true meaning of the word, that love had
not entered into his life.  It would have been but another cross to bear, since no woman could
be expected to be faithful to a maimed and querulous invalid.  Now in a lightning flash he
realised that there were women--this Irish Pixie, for example--whose love could triumphantly
overcome such an ordeal.  She would have "helped him through" and, supported and cheered by
her influence, his recovery would doubtless have been far more speedy.  He straightened himself,
and said quickly--

"Miss O'Shaughnessy would make a charming wife.  For Stanor's sake I could not wish anything
better than that she may be ready to fulfil her promise at the end of the two years."

"There's no doubt about that," said Geoffrey gravely.  "She will be ready.  There's more than
a grain of obstinacy in Pixie's nature--very amiable obstinacy, no doubt, but it may be just
as mischievous on such occasions as the present.  She has given her word and she'll stick to
it, even if she recognises that she has made a mistake.  We may talk, but it will have no effect.
Unless your nephew himself releases her, she will feel as much bound as if they had been married
in Westminster Abbey.  It's the way she's made--the most faithful little creature under the
sun!  It will be our duty to protect her against herself, by making the young fellow understand
that for her sake, almost more than his own, he must be honest, and not allow a mistaken sense
of honour to urge him to repeat his proposal if his heart is not in it.  He could make Pixie
his wife, but he could never make her happy.  The most cruel fate that could happen to that
little soul would be to be married to a man who did not love her absolutely!"

Stephen Glynn nodded, his lips pressed together in grim determination.

"He shall understand.  If I know Stanor, there will be no difficulty, in persuading him.  He
is a good lad, but it is not in him to sacrifice himself.  I have been so anxious to secure
him an unclouded youth that he is hardly to be blamed for putting his own interests in the
foreground."

"It's a fault that many of us suffer from in the early twenties," said Geoffrey, lightly. 
He thought the conversation had lasted long enough, and was glad when the sound of the gong
came as an interruption and he could escort his guest to the dining-room, where the two ladies
were already waiting.

Luncheon was a cheerful meal despite the somewhat difficult position of the diners, and Stephen
Glynn felt the pang of the lonely as he absorbed the atmosphere of love and sympathy.  The
beautiful hostess looked tired and worn, but her eyes brightened as she looked at her husband,
and, in a quiet, unostentatious fashion, he watched incessantly over her comfort.  It was easy
to see that the trial through which this husband and wife had passed had but riveted the bond
between them and brought them into closest sympathy, while the little sister comported herself
with a brisk cheeriness which was as far as possible removed from the attitude of the proverbial
damsel crossed in love.  The time passed so pleasantly that the visitor was unfeignedly sorry
when it was time to make his farewells.

Pixie ran upstairs for the small son and heir, who had by now returned home, and in her absence
Stephen exchanged a few last words with Esmeralda.

"I am immensely relieved and thankful that you and your husband feel with me in this matter.
And Miss O'Shaughnessy has been wonderfully forgiving!  She does not appear to bear me any
rancour."

Esmeralda gave a short, impatient laugh.

"Rancour!  Pixie!  You know very little of my sister, Mr Glynn, to suggest such a possibility.
She is incapable of rancour!"

Pixie returned at this moment, leading Geoff by the hand, and when the great car glided up
to the door, she and the boy went out together to see the last of the departing guest.  Stephen
stepped haltingly into the car, and leaned over the side to wave his own farewells.  Pixie
smiled, and waved in reply, and the sun shone down on her uncovered face. Stephen would have
been thankful if he could have carried away that picture as a last impression, but as the car
moved slowly from the door, she stepped back into the shadow of the porch, and he caught a
last glimpse of her standing there, gazing after him with a grave, fixed gaze.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

"I WILL BE TRUE."

Stephen Glynn's dreaded interview with his nephew was a typical example of the unexpectedness
of events, for instead of the indignant opposition which he had feared, his proposition was
listened to in silence, and accepted with an alacrity, which was almost more disconcerting
than revolt.

In truth Stanor saw in the proposal an escape from what had proved a disappointing and humiliating
position.  His pride had been hurt by the attitude of Pixie's relatives, and he could not imagine
himself visiting at their houses with any degree of enjoyment.  A dragging engagement in England
would therefore be a trying experience to all concerned, and it seemed a very good way out
of the difficulty to pass the time of waiting abroad.

From his own point of view, moreover, he was relieved not to begin his business life in London,
where so far he had been free to pursue his pleasures only.  To be cooped up in a dull city
office, while but a mile or two away his friends were taking part in the social functions of
the season, would be an exasperating experience, whereas in New York he would be troubled by
no such comparisons, but would find much to enjoy in the novelty of his surroundings.  Two
years would soon pass, and at the end he would come home to an assured position, marry Pixie,
and live happily ever after.

He sat gazing thoughtfully into space, the fingers of his right hand slowly stroking his chin,
a picture of handsome, young manhood, while the deep blue eyes of Stephen Glynn watched him
intently from across the room.  A long minute of silence; then the two pairs of eyes met, and
Stanor found himself flushing with a discomfort as acute as mysterious. He straightened himself,
and put a hasty question--

"What does Pixie say?"

"Miss O'Shaughnessy was--" Stephen hesitated over the word--"she seemed to think that my wishes
should have weight.  She will consent to anything that seems for your good.  She said that
two years would quickly pass."

Stanor frowned.  The thought had passed through his own brain, but no man could approve of
such sentiments on the part of a fiancee.  There was an edge of irritation in his voice--

"Of course your wishes should be considered.  I don't need any one to teach me that.  I am
quite willing to go to America and do my best.  I shall be glad of the change, but it's nonsense
to talk of not being bound.  We are bound!  We need not correspond regularly, if you make a
point of that.  I don't think much of letters in any case.  Writing once a week, or once in
two or three months, can make no difference.  There's only one thing that counts!"

Stephen assented gravely.

"Just so.  From what I have seen of Miss O'Shaughnessy, I realise that her only hope of happiness
is to marry a man who can give her a whole-hearted love."

Stanor's glance held a mingling of surprise and displeasure--surprise that the Runkle should
offer any opinion at all on matters sentimental; displeasure, that any one should dictate to
him concerning Pixie's welfare.  He switched the conversation back to more practical matters.

"When shall I start?  The sooner the better.  If the post is open there is no object in wasting
time."  His face lit up with sudden animation. "I say!  Could we manage it in a fortnight,
should you think?  Miss Ward is sailing by the `Louisiana,' and it would be topping if I could
go by the same boat.  I might wire to-day about a berth."

"Who is Miss Ward?"

"Honor Ward--an American.  Awfully jolly!  No end of an heiress!  I've met her a good deal
this year, and she was staying at the Hilliards' at the time of the accident.  Awfully fond
of Pixie, and a real good sort!" He laughed shortly.--"We ought to go out together, for we
are mentally in the same boat.  She had intended to stay over the summer, but ... her romance
has gone wrong too!"

"Indeed!"

Stephen was not interested in Miss Ward's romance, but he made no objection to the sending
of a wire to the Liverpool office of the steamship company, and before evening the berth was
secured and Stanor's departure definitely dated.

"I'll spend the rest of the time with Pixie," was Stanor's first determination, but each hour
that passed brought with it a recollection of some new duty which must needs be performed.
One cannot leave one's native land, even for a couple of years, without a goodly amount of
preparation and leave-taking, and the time allotted to Pixie dwindled down to a few hasty visits
of a few hours' duration, when the lovers sat together in the peacock walk, and talked, and
built castles in the air, and laughed, and sighed, and occasionally indulged in a little, mild
sparring, as very youthful lovers are apt to do.

"I must say you are uncommonly complacent about my going!  A fellow hardly expects the girl
he's engaged to, to be in such uproarious spirits just on the eve of their separation," Stanor
would grumble suddenly at the end of one of his fiancee's mirthful sallies, whereupon Pixie,
her vanity hurt by his want of appreciation, would snap out a quick retort.

"If I'm sad you want me to be glad, and if I'm glad you're annoyed that I'm not sad!  There's
no pleasing you!  You ought to be thankful that I'm so strong and self-controlled. ...  Would
it make it easier; if I were hanging round your neck in hysterics?"

"Oh, bar hysterics!  But a tear or two now and then...  Suppose it was Bridgie who was going
instead of me?--would you be as strong and self-controlled?"

"If Bridgie were going I'd ...  I'd jump--" In the midst of her passionate declaration Pixie
drew herself up, shot a frightened glance, and concluded lamely, "I'd ... be very much distressed!"

"That's not what you were going to say.  You were going to say that you'd jump into the water
and swim after her, or some such nonsense. You can be perfectly cool and calm about my going,
but when it comes to Bridgie--"

"If it'll please you better, I'll begin to howl this minute!  I don't often, but when I do,
it seems as if I could never stop.  I thought," Pixie added reproachfully, "when a girl was
engaged the man thought her perfect, and everything she did, and she sat listening while he
sang her praises from morn to night.  But you find fault--"

"I don't call it finding fault to wish you would show more feeling! It's the best sort of compliment,
if you could only see it."

"I like my compliments undiluted, not wrapped up in reproaches, like powder in jam.  Besides,
you're fairly complacent yourself!  I heard you telling Geoffrey that you expected to have
a real good time."

"And suppose I did?  What about that?  Would you prefer me to be lonely, and miserable?"

"Oh dear!" cried Pixie poignantly; "we're quarrelling!  Whose fault was it?  Was it mine? 
I'm sorry, Stanor.  Don't let's quarrel!  I want you to be happy.  Could I love you if I didn't
do that?  I want it more than anything else.  Honor is coming to-morrow, and I shall ask her
to look after you for me.  She knows so many people, and is so rich that she has the power
to help.  She will be glad to have you so near.  Why is she going home so soon, Stanor?  I
thought--"

"So did we all, but it's fallen through somehow.  I met Carr in town looking the picture of
woe, but, naturally, he didn't vouchsafe any explanation.  Honor will probably unburden herself
to you to-morrow."

"She will.  If she doesn't I shall ask her," said Pixie calmly.  "I'm crossed in love myself,
so I can understand.  It's no use trying to sympathise till you've had a taste of the trouble
yourself.  Has it ever occurred to you to notice the mad ways most people set about sympathising?
Sticking needles all over you while they're trying to be kind.  Sympathising is an art, you
know, and you have to adapt it to each person.  Some like a little and some like a lot, and
some like cheering up, and others want you to cry with them and make the worst of everything,
and then it's off their minds and they perk up.  Bridgie and I used to think sometimes of hiring
ourselves out as professional sympathisers, for there seems such a lack of people who can do
it properly."

"Suppose you give me a demonstration now!  You haven't been too generous in that respect, Pixie."

Pixie looked at him, her head on one side, her eyes very intent and serious.

"You don't need it," she said simply, and Stanor looked hurt and discomfited, and cast about
in his mind for a convincing retort which should prove beyond doubt the pathos of his position,
failed to find it, and acknowledged unwillingly to himself that as a matter of fact he was
very well satisfied with the way in which things were going. Pixie was right--she usually was
right; it might, perhaps, be more agreeable if on occasions she could be judiciously blind!
He adopted the pained and dignified air which experience had taught him was the surest method
of softening Pixie's heart, and in less than a minute she was hanging on his arm and contradicting
all her former statements.

Stanor was very much in love as he travelled back to town that day, and the two years of waiting
seemed unbearably long.  Perhaps, if he got on unusually well, the Runkle might be induced
to shorten the probation. He would sound him at the end of the first year.

The next day Honor Ward made a farewell visit to the Hall, and took lunch with the family in
the panelled dining-room, where she had joined in many merry gatherings a few weeks before.
Pixie saw the brown eyes flash a quick glance at the place which had been allotted to Robert
Carr, but except for that glance there was no sign of anything unusual in either looks or manner.
Honor was as neat, as composed, as assured in manner as in her happiest moments, and the flow
of her conversation was in no wise moderated.  Her hurried departure was explained by a casual
"I guessed I'd better," which Mr and Mrs Hilliard accepted as sufficient reason for a girl
who had no ties, and more money than she knew how to use.  Even Pixie's lynx-eyes failed to
descry any sign of heart-break.  But when the meal was over and the two girls retired upstairs
for a private chat, Honor's jaunty manners fell from her like a cloak, and she crouched in
a corner of the sofa, looking suddenly tired and worn.  For the moment, however, it was not
of her own affairs that she elected to speak.

"Pat-ricia," she began suddenly, turning her honey-coloured eyes on her friend's face with
a penetrating gaze, "I guess this is about the last real talk you and I are going to get for
a good long spell.  There's no time for fluttering round the point.  What I've got in my mind
I'm going to say!  What in the land made you get engaged to Stanor Vaughan?"

"Because he asked me, of course!" replied Pixie readily, and the American girl gave a shrug
of impatience.

"If another man had asked you, then, it would have been just the same. You would have accepted
him for, the same reason!"

Pixie's head reared proudly; her eyes sent out a flash.

"That's horrid, and you meant it to be!  I shan't answer your questions if you're going to
be rude."

"I'm not rude, Patricia O'Shaughnessy.  You're a real sweet girl, and I want you should be
as happy as you deserve, which you certainly won't be if you don't take the trouble to understand
your own heart.  What's all this nonsense about being bound and not bound, and waiting for
two years without writing, he on one side of the ocean, and you on another?  I can understand
an old uncle proposing it--it's just the sort of scheme an old uncle would propose--but it
won't work out, Patricia, you take my word for that!"

"Thank you, my dear, I prefer to take my own; and he's not old.  He has the most beautiful
eyes you ever beheld.  What do you suppose Stanor would say if he knew you were talking to
me like this?"

"I'm not saying a word against Stanor!  Who could say a word against such an elegant creature?
He's been a good friend to me, and he's going to make a first-rate man when he gets to work,
and has something to think about besides his beautiful self.  America'll knock the nonsense
out of him.  At the end of two years, it will be another man who comes home, a man instead
of a boy, just as you will probably be a woman instead of a girl.  It's the most critical time
in life, when that change is taking place, and you'd better believe I know what I'm talking
about.  If I were in your place I'd move mountains, Patricia, if mountains had to be moved,
but I'd make sure that the man I loved didn't go through it apart from me!"

"But if the mountain happened to be an uncle, and the uncle had done everything, and was willing
to go on doing everything, and was older and wiser, and knew better than you?  Oh, dearie me,"
concluded Pixie impatiently, "everybody seems against me!  I'm lectured and thwarted on every
side, I've not been brought up to it, and it's most depressing. And it's not a bit of good,
either; it's my own life, and I shall do as I like.  And what about yourself, me dear?  You
are very brave about lecturing me.  Suppose I take a turn!  Why are you going back to America
and leaving Robert Carr behind?  What have you been doing to him?"

"I asked him to marry me, and he refused."

Pixie sat stunned with surprise and consternation.  Honor's voice had been flat and level as
usual, not a break or quiver had broken its flow, but there was a pallor round the lips, a
sudden sharpening of the features, which spoke eloquently enough, and smote the hearer to the
heart.

"Oh, me dear, forgive me!" she cried deeply.  "I'm ashamed.  Don't say any more.  I'd no right
to ask."

"I meant to tell you.  I'd have told you in any case.  You guessed how it was when we were
here.  You can't be in love like that and not show it.--I thought of him all day; I dreamt
of him all night ... when he was out of the room I was wretched; when he came in I knew it
by instinct; before I could see him I knew it!  In a crowded room I could hear every word he
said, see every movement. ...  When I was sitting alone, and heard his voice in the distance,
my heart leapt--it made me quite faint. I loved him, Pixie!"

Pixie sat staring with startled gaze.  She did not speak, and for a moment it seemed that her
thoughts had wandered from the story on hand, for her eyes had an inward look, as though she
were puzzling out a problem which concerned herself alone.  She started slightly as Honor again
began to speak, and straightened herself with a quick air of attention.

"Sometimes I thought he loved me too, but he was not the sort of man who would choose to marry
an heiress.  My money stood between us.  So I ... I tried to make it easier by showing him
... how I felt.  When we went back to London he said good-bye, and refused my invitations,
but I met him by accident, and," she straightened herself with a gesture of pride, "I am not
ashamed of what I did.  It would have been folly to sacrifice happiness for the sake of a convention
...  I asked him--"

"And?"

"He cared!"  Honor said softly.  "I had my hour, Pixie, but it was only an hour, for at the
end we got to business, and that wrecked it all.  I've told you about my factory.  Over here
in England, when people have looked at me through monocles, there have been times when I've
been ashamed of pickles, but at home I'm proud!  Father started as a working lad, and built
up that great business, brick by brick.  Three thousand `hands' are employed in the factory,
but they were never `hands' to him, Patricia, they were souls!  He'd been a working man himself,
and there was not one thing in their lives he didn't know and understand.  One of the first
things I can remember, right away back in my childhood, is being taken to a window to see those
men stream past, and being told they were my friends and that I was to take care of them. He
had no airs, my pappa; he never gave himself frills, or pretended to be anything different
from what he was--there was only one thing he was proud of, and that was that his men were
the happiest and most contented in the States.  When he died he left me more than his money,
he left me his men!"

Honor paused, her eyes bright with suppressed feeling, and Pixie, keen as ever to appreciate
an emotional situation, drew a fluttering breath.

"Yes, yes!  How beautiful!  How fine!  All those lives ...  Honor, aren't you proud?"

"I've told you before, my dear.  The best part of me is proud and glad, but we're pretty complex
creatures, and I guess a big duty is bound to come up against a pleasure now and then.  At
the moment I was speaking of, it was one man against three thousand, and the one man weighed
down the scale."

"But ... but I don't understand."  Pixie puckered her brows in bewilderment.  "Why couldn't
you have both?"

"I thought I could, Patricia.  I calculated, as my work was full-fledged, and his had hardly
begun, that he would be willing to come over with me.  It's a pretty stiff proposition for
a woman to run a big show like that, and I'd have been glad of help.  He allowed I'd have to
sell up and keep house for him in England, and make a splash among the big-wigs to help him
in his career.  He put it as politely as he knew how, but he made me understand that it was
beneath his dignity to live in America and work in pickles, and he guessed if I sold out I
could find a buyer who would look after the men as well as or better than I did myself.  So--"
she waved her small white hands--"there we were!  He wouldn't, and I couldn't!  That's the
truth, Patricia.  I could not!  I don't dispute that another person might not manage as well
as I, that's not the question.  It's my work, it's my responsibility; those men were left to
me, and I can't desert.  So the dream's over, my dear, and I'm going back to real hard life."

Pixie nodded, the big tears standing in her eyes.

"I should have done the same.  He didn't love you enough."

Honor gave a quivering laugh.

"He said the same of me.  Couldn't seem to see any difference between the two `give-ups'; but
there is a difference, Patricia.  Well, my dear, that's the end of it.  We said good-bye, and
there's no reason why we should meet again. ...  Our lives lie in different places, and it's
no use trying to join them."

"Honor, dear, are you very unhappy?"

Honor's neat little features puckered in a grimace.

"I wouldn't go so far as to say I feel exactly gay, Patricia, but don't you worry about me.
I'll come up smiling.  You wouldn't have me pine for the sake of a man who wouldn't have me
when he got the chance?  I guess Honor P Ward has too much grit for that!"

Pixie nodded slowly.

"But you mustn't be too hard on him, Honor--It's natural to want to live in one's own country,
and he loves his work just as you do yours. He'll be a judge some day--chins like that always
do succeed--and ambition means so much to a man.  You might have been pleased for your own
sake; but would you have thought more of him as a man if he'd thrown it all up and lived on
your pickles?"

Honor brought her eyebrows together in a frown.

"Now, Pixie O'Shaughnessy, don't you go taking his part!  I guess I've got about as much sense
of justice as most, and in a few months' time I'll see the matter in its right light, but for
the moment I'm injured, and I choose to feel injured; and I expect my friends to feel injured
too.  I've offered myself to an Englishman, and he's refused to have me. There's no getting;
away from that fact, and it's not a soothing experience for a free-born American.  I'm through
with Englishmen from this time forth!"

"Except Stanor!  Be kind to Stanor.  He's always liked you, Honor, and he knows no one in America.
Promise me to be kind to Stanor, and see him as often as you can!"

Honor's brown eyes searched Pixie's face with a curious glance.  Then, rising from her chair,
she crossed the room and kissed her warmly upon the cheek.

"Yes, I'll look after him.  I'll do anything you want, and nothing you don't want.  You can
trust me, my dear.  Remember that, won't you? You're a real sweet thing, Patricia!"

Pixie laughed with characteristic complacence.

"Yes; but why especially at this moment?  I always am, aren't I?  And how superfluous, me dear,
to talk of trust?  What have I got to trust?"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A fortnight later Geoffrey and Joan Hilliard, Stephen Glynn, and Pixie journeyed to Liverpool
to see the last of the travellers.  The little party stood together on the deck of the great
vessel, surrounded on every side by surge and bustle, but silent themselves with the silence
which falls when the heart is full.  Travelling down to Liverpool they had been quite a merry
party, and there had been no effort in keeping the conversation afloat; but the last moments
sealed their lips.  Honor drew a few yards apart with the elderly, kindly-faced maid who was
her faithful attendant; Stephen Glynn and the Hilliards strolled away in an opposite direction.
Pixie and her lover stood alone.

"Well, little girl... this is good-bye!  Don't forget me, darling..."

Pixie gulped.

"Take care of yourself, Stanor.  Be happy! ...  I want you to be happy."

"I shall be wretched!" said Stanor hotly.  "I'm leaving you.  Oh! Pixie--" He broke off suddenly
as the last bell sounded its warning note, and bent to kiss her lips; "Good-bye, my little love!"

The tears poured down Pixie's face as she turned aside, and Geoffrey Hilliard led her tenderly
down the gangway on to the landing-stage, where they stood together, tightly jammed in the
crowd which watched the great steamer slowly move into the stream.  Stanor and Honor were standing
together leaning over the towering hull; their faces were pale, but they were smiling bravely,
and Pixie wiped away her own tears and waved an answering hand.  Esmeralda was holding her
hand in a tender pressure; Geoffrey on one side, and Stephen Glynn on the other were regarding
her with anxious solicitude.  She smiled back with tremulous gratitude and gripped Esmeralda's
hand.  Though Stanor was going, there was still much left, so many people to care and be kind.

The great vessel quivered and moved slowly forward.  Honor drew a little white handkerchief
from her bag and waved it in the air; on all sides the action was repeated, accompanied by
cries of farewell mingled with sounds of distress.  Pixie caught the sound of a sob, and craned
forward to look in the face of a girl about her own age who stood on the other side of Stephen
Glynn.  She wore a small, close-fitting cap, which left her face fully exposed as it strained
towards that moving deck, and on the small white features was printed a very extremity of anguish.
She was not crying; her glazed eyes showed no trace of tears, she seemed unconscious of the
deep sobs which issued from her lips; every nerve, every power was concentrated in the one
effort to behold to the last possible moment one beloved face.  Instinctively Pixie's eyes
followed those of the girl's, and beheld a man's face gazing back, haggard, a-quiver, almost
contorted with suffering.  The story was plain to read. They also were lovers--this man and
this girl.  They also were facing years of separation, and the moment of parting held for them
the bitterness of death.  Pixie O'Shaughnessy glanced from one to the other, and then thoughtfully,
deliberately along the deck to the spot where stood her own lover, handsome Stanor, bending
his head to overhear a remark from Honor, stroking his blonde moustache.  He looked dejected,
depressed; but compared with the depth of emotion on the other man's face, such meagre expressions
faded into nothingness.  The moment during which she gazed at his face held for Pixie the significance
of years; then once more her eyes returned to the girl by her side...

With every minute now the great vessel was slipping farther and farther from the stage; the
faces of her passengers would soon cease to be distinguishable; in a few minutes they would
be lost to sight, yet Pixie's gaze remained riveted on the girl by her side, and on her own
face was printed a mute dismay which one onlooker at least was quick to read.

"She understands!"  Stephen Glynn said to himself.  "That girl's face has been an object lesson
stronger than any words.  She understands the difference."

A moment later he met Pixie's eyes, and realised afresh the truth of his diagnosis; but she
drew herself up with a sort of defiance, and turned sharply aside.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the train returning to town Pixie sat mute and pallid, and was waited upon assiduously by
her sister and brother.  To them it seemed natural enough that the poor child should collapse
after the strain of parting. Only one person understood the deepest reason of her distress.
He offered none of the conventional words of sympathy, and forebore to echo Esmeralda's rosy
pictures of the future.  It brought another pang to Pixie's sore heart to realise that he understood.
"But I will be true," she repeated to herself with insistent energy; "I will be true. I have
given my word."  She felt very tired and spent as she lay back in the corner of her cushioned
seat.  On heart and brain was an unaccustomed weight; her very limbs felt heavy and inert,
as if the motive power had failed.  Virtue had gone out of her.  At the sight of that anguished
face, the years of Pixie's untroubled girlhood had come to an end.  Henceforth she was a woman,
carrying her own burden.  "But I will be true," she repeated gallantly; "I will be true!"

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

PIXIE SEEKS ADVICE.

A tall young man lay stretched upon a narrow bed which filled an entire wall of the one and
only sitting-room in a diminutive London flat.  On the wall opposite was a fireplace and a
small sideboard; against the third wall stood a couple of upright chairs.  In the centre of
the room stood a table.  A wicker arm-chair did duty for an invalid tray, and held a selection
of pipes, books, and writing materials, also a bottle of medicine, and a plate of unappetising
biscuits.

The young man took up one of the biscuits, nibbled a crumb from the edge, and aimed the remainder
violently at a picture at the other end of the room.  It hit, and the biscuit broke into pieces,
but the glass remained intact, a result which seemed far from satisfactory to the onlooker.
He fumbled impatiently for matches with which to light his pipe, touched the box with the tips
of his outstretched fingers, and jerked it impatiently, whereupon it rolled on to the floor
to a spot just a couple of inches beyond the utmost stretch of his arm.  There it lay--obvious
and aggravating, tempting, baffling, inaccessible.  Pipe and tobacco lay at hand to supply
the soothing which he so sorely needed at the end of a lonely, suffering day, and for the want
of that box they might as well have been a mile away!  A bell was within reach, but what use
to ring that when no one was near to hear?  The slovenly woman who called herself a working
housekeeper found it necessary to sally forth each afternoon on long shopping expeditions,
and during her absence her master had to fend for himself as best he might.

Dislocation of the knee was the young man's malady, just a sharp, swift rush at cricket, a
slip on the dry grass, and Pat O'Shaughnessy shuddered every time he thought of the hours and
days which followed that fall.  He had asked to be taken home, for the tiny flat was a new
possession, and as such dear to his heart.  And to his home they carried him, and there he
had lain already for longer than he cared to think. He had progressed to the point when he
had been able to dismiss an excellent but uncongenial nurse, and manage with an hour's assistance
morning and night; and what with reading the newspapers, smoking his pipe, and writing an occasional
letter the first part of the day passed quickly enough.

Lunch was served at one o'clock on a papier-mache tray spread with a crumpled tray cloth. 
It was a tepid, tasteless, unappetising meal, for the working housekeeper knew neither how
to work nor to cook, and Pat invariably sent it away almost untasted; yet every day he looked
forward afresh to the advent of one o'clock and the appearance of the tray.  It was something
to happen, something to do, a change from the reading, of which he was already getting tired.
But, after lunch, after he had wakened from the short siesta; and realised that it was not
yet three o'clock, and that six, seven hours still remained to be lived through before he could
reasonably hope to settle for the night--that was a dreary time indeed, and Pat, whose interests
lay all outdoors, knew no means of lightening it.

For the first week of his confinement Pat had had a string of visitors. The members of his
cricket team had appeared to express sympathy and encouragement; some of the men against whom
he had been playing had also put in an appearance; "fellows" had come up from "the office,"
but in the busy life of London a man who goes on being ill is apt to find himself left alone
before many weeks have passed.  There was only one man who never failed to put in an appearance
at some hour of the day, and on that man's coming Pat O'Shaughnessy this afternoon concentrated
every power in his possession.

"They say if you wish hard enough you can make a fellow do what you like.  If there's any truth
in it, Glynn ought to come along pretty soon.  How am I going to lie here all afternoon and
stare at those miserable matches?  That wretched woman might be buying the town ... wish to
goodness she'd fetch something fit to eat.  If that doctor fellow won't tell me to-morrow how
much longer I have to lie here, I'll--I'll get up and walk, just to spite him!"  Pat jerked
defiantly and immediately gave a groan of pain.  Not much chance of walking yet awhile!

He wriggled to the edge of the sofa, and made another unsuccessful stretch for the matchbox,
but those baffling two inches refused to be mastered.  Pat looked around in a desperate search
for help, seized a biscuit, and aimed it carefully for the farther edge of the box, which,
hit at the right angle, might perhaps have been twitched nearer to the sofa, but though Pat
had considerable skill in the art of throwing, he had no luck this afternoon.  Biscuit after
biscuit was hurled with increasing violence, as temper suffered from the strain of failure,
and each time the matchbox jumped still farther away, while another shower of biscuit crumbs
bespattered the carpet.  Then at last when the plate was emptied, and the last hope gone, deliverance
came at the sound of the opening of the front door, and a quick, well-known whistle.  Glynn!
No one else knew the secret of the hidden key.  Pat halloed loudly in response, and the next
moment Stephen stood in the doorway, looking with bewildered eyes at the bespattered carpet.

"What's this?  Playing Aunt Sally?  Rather a wanton waste of biscuits, isn't it?"

"Try 'em, and see!  Soft as dough.  Give me that matchbox, Glynn, like a good soul.  It fell
off my chair, and I've been lying here pining for a smoke, and making pot shots of it, till
I felt half mad.--If you only knew--"

Stephen Glynn did know.  It was that knowledge which brought him regularly day by day to the
little flat at the top of eighty odd stairs.

He walked across the room, his limp decidedly less in evidence through the passage of the years,
reclaimed the matchbox, and seated himself on the edge of the couch.

"Light up, old fellow!  It will do you good."

Pat struck the match and sucked luxuriously.  There was no need to make conversation to Glynn.
He was a comfortable fellow who always understood.  It was good to see him sitting there, to
look at his fine, grave face, and realise that boredom was over, and the happiest hour of the
day begun.

"I say, Glynn, I made you, come!  Mesmerised you.  It drives a fellow crazy to be done by a
couple of inches.  They say if you concentrate your thoughts--"

"I arranged this morning to call at five o'clock.  I should say by the look of things you had
concentrated on biscuits. ...  Where's that old woman?"  Glynn inquired.

"Shopping.  Always is.  And never buys anything by the taste of the food.  You should have
seen my lunch!  I'll be a living skeleton at this rate."

Pat spoke laughingly, but the hearer frowned, and looked quickly at the sharpened face, on
which weeks of solitary confinement had left their mark.

"Why don't you round into her?"

"Daren't!  Might make off and leave me in the lurch.  They do, you know. Fellows have told
me.  Any one is better than no one at all when you are minus a leg."

"And about that letter?  The time limit runs out to-morrow.  You know what I threatened?"

Pat shrugged impatiently.

"You and your threats!  What's the sense in worrying when it's got to end in worrying, and
can do no good?  I've told you till I'm tired-- the Hilliards are abroad, Dick Victor is down
with rheumatism, and Bridgie makes sure he's going to die every time his finger aches.  She'd
leave him if I died first, I suppose, but I wouldn't make too sure even of that.  'Twould have
finished her altogether to know that I was lying here all these weeks.  However!"  Pat shrugged
again, "you've got your way, bad luck to you!  Bridgie wrote to ask me to run down over a Sunday,
to cheer Victor, so there was nothing for it but to own up. She'll write me reams of advice
and send embrocations.  Serve you jolly well right if I rubbed them on you instead!"

"Fire away, I don't mind!  Your muscles would be the better for a little exercise."

Stephen Glynn leaned back in his chair and looked affectionately at Pat's dark, handsome face.

Twelve months before the two men had been introduced at a dinner following a big cricket match
in which Pat had distinguished himself by a fine innings.

Stephen Glynn from his seat on the grand stand had applauded with the rest of the great audience,
and looking at the printed card in his hand had wondered whether by chance P.D. O'Shaughnessy
was any relation of the Irish Pixie to whom Stanor Vaughan had wished to be engaged.  The wonder
changed to certainty a few hours later on as he was introduced to the young player, and met
the gaze of his straight, dark eyes!  Pat was the handsomest of the three brothers, nevertheless
it was not so much of beautiful Joan Hilliard that the beholder was reminded, at this moment,
as of the younger sister, who had no beauty at all, for Esmeralda's perfect features lacked
the irradiation of kindliness and humour which characterised Pat and Pixie alike.

Stephen Glynn was not given to sudden fancies, but Pat O'Shaughnessy walked straight into his
heart at that first meeting, and during the year which followed the acquaintance so begun had
ripened into intimacy. Stephen spent a great part of his time in chambers in town, where the
young man became a welcome guest, and no sooner had Pat soared to the giddy height of possessing
a flat of his own, and settled down as a householder, than the accident had happened which
made him dependent on the visits of his friends.

Pat was aware of Stephen's connection with his family, and more especially with Pixie, but
after one brief reference the subject had been buried, though Pixie herself was frequently
mentioned.  There was a portrait of her on Pat's mantelpiece to which Stephen's eyes often
strayed during his visits to the flat.  Truth to tell it was not a flattering portrait.  Pixie
was unfortunate so far as photography was concerned, since all her bad points were reproduced
and her charm disappeared.  Stephen wondered if Stanor were gazing at the same photograph in
New York, and if his imagination were strong enough to supply the want.  For himself he had
no difficulty.  So vivid was his recollection that even as he looked the set face of the photograph
seemed to flash into smiles...

"Well, I am glad you have given in," he said, continuing his sentence after a leisurely pause,
"because my threat was real.  I should certainly have written to your people if you hadn't
done it yourself. You are not being properly looked after, young man.  To put it bluntly, you
are not having enough to eat.  When do you expect that obnoxious old female to come back and
make tea?"

"'Deed, I've given over expecting," said Pat despondently.  "Most days I'm ready to drink the
teapot by the time she brings it in.  It's a toss up if we get it at all to-day as she's gone out."

Stephen rose to his tall height and stood smiling down at the tired face.

"You shall have it, my boy.  I'll make it myself.  It won't be the first time.  Have you any
idea where the crocks live?  I don't want to upset--"

Before he could complete his sentence, a thunderous knocking sounded at the front door, causing
both hearers to start with astonishment.  So loud, so vigorous, so long continued was the assault,
that the first surprise deepened into indignation, and Pat's dark eyes sent out a threatening
flash.

"This is too strong!  Lost her key, I suppose, and expects me to crawl on all fours to let
her in.  You go, Glynn, and send her straight here to me!  I'll give her a bit of my mind.
I'm just in the mood to do it. Leaving me alone for hours and then knocking down my door--!"

Stephen Glynn crossed the floor, his face set into an alarming sternness, for his irritation
against his friend's neglectful domestic had been growing for weeks, and this was the culminating
point.  He seized the handle, turned it quietly, and jerked the door open with a disconcerting
suddenness which had the effect of precipitating the new-comer into his arms.

"Me dear!" she cried rapturously, as she fell, but the same moment she was upright again, bolt
upright, scorching him with disdainful glance. "It's not!--Where am I? ...  They said it was
Mr O'Shaughnessy's flat!"

"It is!  It is!  Pixie!  Pixie!  Come in, come quick!  Oh, you blessed little simpleton, what's
the meaning of this?  You'd no business to come.  There's no room for you.  I'm nearly well
now.  There's no need-- I--I--oh, Pixie!" and poor, tired, hungry Pat lay back weakly in his
sister's arms, and came perilously near subsiding into tears.  It had been hard work keeping
up his pecker all these long weeks, it was so overwhelmingly home-like to see Pixie's face,
and listen to her deep mellow tones...

"There's got to be room, me dear, for I've come to stay.  How dare you be ill by yourself?
It's a bad effect London has had on you to make you so close and secretive.  You!  Who yelled
the roof down if you as much as scratched your finger!  We got the note this morning--"

"Glynn made me send it.  He's been worrying at me for weeks.  Glynn!" Pat raised his voice
to a cry.  "Where are you?  Come in, you beggar. It's Pixie!  My sister Pixie.  Come and shake
hands."

Stephen and Pixie advanced to meet each other, red in the face and bashful of eye.  The encounter
at the door had been so momentary that she had hardly had time to recognise the pale face with
the deep blue eyes, but for him the first note of her voice had been sufficient.

"I--I thought you were Pat!"

"I--I thought you were the cook."

She straightened at that, with a flash of half-resentful curiosity.

"Why?  Am I so like her?  And do you always--"

"No, I don't.  Never.  But to-day she was out and your brother wanted--"

"Oh, never mind, never mind!"  Pat was too greedy for attention to suffer a long explanation.
"What does it matter?  She's a wretch, Pixie, and she goes out and leaves me to starve.  That
good Samaritan was going to make tea when we heard your knock."

"I'll make it for you!"  Pixie said smiling, but she seated herself by Pat's side as she spoke,
and slid her hand through his arm, as though realising that for the moment her presence was
the most welcome of all refreshments.  She wore a smartly cut tweed coat and skirt, and a soft
felt hat with a pheasant's wing, and her brown shoes looked quite preposterously small and
bright.  In some indefinable way she looked older and more responsible than the Pixie of two
years before, and Stephen noticed the change and wondered as to its cause.

"I think I will go now," he said hastily; "your sister will look after you, O'Shaughnessy,
and you will have so much to talk about.  I'll come again!"

But Pat was obstinate; he insisted that his friend should stay on, and appealed to Pixie for
support, which she gave with great good will.

"Please do!  We'll talk the better for having an audience.  Won't we now, Pat?  We were always
vain."

"We were!"  Pat assented with unction.  "Especially yourself.  Even as a child you played up
to the gallery."  He took her hand and squeezed it tightly between his own.  "Pixie, I can't
believe it!  It's too nice to be true.  And Bridgie, what does she say?  Does she approve of
your coming?"

"She did one moment, and the next she didn't.  She was torn in pieces, the poor darling, wanting
to come to you herself, and to stay with Dick at the same time.  You know what she is when
Dick is ill!  His temperature has only to go up one point, to have her weeping about Homes
for Soldiers' Orphans, and pondering how she can get most votes.  He's buried with military
honours, poor Richard, every time he takes a cold. So I was firm with her, and just packed
my things and came off.  At my age," she straightened herself proudly, "one must assert oneself!
I asked her what was the use of being twenty-two, and how she'd have liked it herself if she'd
been thwarted at that age, and she gave in and packed up remedies."  Pixie picked up the brown
leather bag which lay on the floor, and opening it, took out the contents in turns, and laid
them on the sofa.  "A tonic to build up the system.  Beef-juice, to ditto. Embrocation to be
applied to the injured part. ...  Tabloids.  Home-made cake. ...  Oh, that tea!  I'd forgotten.
I'll make it at once, and we'll eat the cake now."  She jumped up and looked appealingly towards
Stephen.  "Will you show me the kitchen?  I don't know my way through these lordly fastnesses!"

They went out of the room together, while Pat called out an eager, "Don't be long!"

It was only a step into the tiny kitchen.  In another moment Stephen and Pixie stood within
its portals, and she had closed the door behind with a careful hand.  Her face had sobered,
and there was an anxious furrow in her forehead.

"He looks ill!" she said breathlessly.  "Worse than I expected.  He said he was getting well.
Please tell me honestly--Is it true?"

"Perfectly true in one sense.  The knee is doing well, but his general health has suffered.
He has been lonely and underfed, and at the first there was considerable pain.  I did my best
to make him write to you before, for he is not fit to be left alone.  That servant is lazy
and inefficient."

Pixie glanced round the untidy room with her nose tilted high.

"'Twill be a healthful shock for her to come back and find a mistress in possession.  We'll
have a heart to heart talk to-morrow morning," she announced, with so quaint an assumption
of severity that Stephen was obliged to laugh.  She laughed with him, struggling out of her
coat, and looking round daintily for a place to lay it.

"That nail on the door!  There's not a clean spot.  Now for the kettle! You fill it, while
I rummage.  What's the most unlikely place for the tea?  It will be there.  She's the sort
of muddler who'd leave it loose among the potatoes."

"It's in the caddy.  The brown box on the dresser.  I've found it before."

"The caddy!"  Pixie looked quite annoyed at so obvious a find.  "Oh, so it is.  Where's the
butter then, and the bread, and the sugar?  Where's the spoons?  Where does she put the cloths?
Rake out that bottom bar to make a draught.  Does he get feverish at nights?  It's a mercy
I brought a cake, for I don't believe there's a thing.  Does he take it strong?"

She was bustling about as she spoke, opening and shutting drawers, standing on tip-toe to peer
over kitchen shelves, lifting the lids of dishes upon the dresser.  One question succeeded
fast upon another, but she did not trouble herself to wait for a reply, and Stephen, watching
with a flickering smile, was quite nonplussed when at last she paused, as if expectant of an
answer.

"What strong?"

"Tea!  What else could it be?  We were talking of tea."

"I beg your pardon.  So we were.  Yes, he does like it strong, and there's only one set of
cups, white with a gold rim.  There were two left the other day, but it's quite possible they
have disappeared.  She is a champion breaker."

"We'll have tumblers then," Pixie said briskly.  "The nicest tea I ever had was at a seaside
inn where we made it ourselves in a bedroom to save the expense.  Oh, here they are, and here's
the milk.  Now we shan't be long!"  Then suddenly, standing before the cupboard door, and tilting
her head over her shoulder, "When did you hear from Stanor?" she asked, in a still, altered
voice which struck like a blow.

Stephen Glynn gave no outward sign of surprise, yet that sudden question had sent racing half
a dozen pulses, as voicing the words in his own mind.  "When did you hear from Stanor?  What
do you hear from Stanor?" The first sight of the girl's face had added intensity to the curiosity
of years--a curiosity which within the last months had changed into anxiety.  He hesitated
before answering the simple question.

"He does not write often.  We had a good deal of correspondence when he decided to stay in
New York the extra six months.  He seems to have acclimatised wonderfully, and to be absorbed
in his work, unusually absorbed for his age."

"But that is what you wanted.  You must be pleased about that," Pixie said quietly.  She was
arranging the cups and saucers on the tray, but she looked at him as she spoke, a straight,
sweet look, which yet held so much sadness that it cut like a knife.

"Miss O'Shaughnessy," he cried impetuously, "can you forgive me?  I took too much upon myself.
I did it for the best, but--two years is too long.  One settles down.  It was a blow to me
when he stayed on, for my own sake, and--"

Pixie nodded gravely.

"Yes.  We were both sorry.  We wanted of course to see him, but you should not blame him for
loving his work.  You blamed him before because he was changeable; now he has done so well,
you must be proud."  She smiled at him with determined cheerfulness.  "I am proud.  And it
is not as if it were making him ill.  He finds time to play.  Honor Ward often writes and she
tells me--"

"Miss Ward seems an adept at play," returned Stephen dryly. 

Northern parts in thereto it were not read for century; and the spire is a work in as late had
a horror as one. The older, the clock-tower, was erected till 1430: that
tower and western entrance, and in 1464.  Pixie had read aloud descriptions
thereof in the journals in the northern town where Captain Victor was still stationed, and
Bridgie listening thereto had exclaimed in horror: "Special liveries for all the men-servants
just for that one evening!  How wicked!  All that money for a few hours, when poor children
are starving, and myself wanting a velvet coat..."

