"I understand," said she, "that you are trying to get hot water out of your well, and that
there is likely to be a lot more than you need, so that it will run down by the side of the
road.  I just want to say that if a stream of hot water comes down past my house some of the
children will be bound to get into it and be scalded to death, and I came to say that if that
well is going to squirt b'iling water I'd like to have notice so that I can move, though where
a widow with so many orphans is going to move to nobody knows.  Mr. Colwell says that if you
had got him to tell you where to put that well there would have been no danger of this sort
of thing."

The next day the optimist came to me, his face fairly blazing with a new idea.  "I rode over
on purpose to urge you," he cried, "if you should strike hot water, not to stop there.  Go
on, and, by George! you may strike fire."

"Heavens!" I cried.

"Oh, quite the opposite," said he.  "But do not let us joke.  I think that would be the grandest
thing of this age.  Think of a fire well, with the flames shooting up perhaps a hundred feet
into the air!"

I wish Phineas Colwell had not been there.  As it was, he turned pale and sat down on the wall.

"You look astonished!" exclaimed the optimist, "but listen to me.  You have not thought of
this thing as I have.  If you should strike fire your fortune would be made.  By a system of
reflectors you could light up the whole country.  By means of tiles and pipes this region could
be made tropical.  You could warm all the houses in the neighborhood with hot air.  And then
the power you could generate--just think of it! Heat is power; the cost of power is the fuel.
You could furnish power to all who wanted it.  You could fill this region with industries.
My dear sir, you must excuse my agitation, but if you should strike fire there is no limit
to the possibilities of achievement."

"But I want water," said I.  "Fire would not take the place of that."

"Oh, water is a trifle," said he.  "You could have pipes laid from town; it is only about two
miles.  But fire!  Nobody has yet gone down deep enough for that.  You have your future in
your hands."

As I did not care to connect my future with fire, this idea did not strike me very forcibly,
but it struck Phineas Colwell.  He did not say anything to me, but after I had gone he went
to the well-drivers.

"If you feel them pipes getting hot," he said to them, "I warn you to stop.  I have been in
countries where there are volcanoes, and I know what they are.  There's enough of them in this
world, and there's no need of making new ones."

In the afternoon a wagoner, who happened to be passing, brought me a note from Mrs. Perch,
very badly spelled, asking if I would let one of my men bring her a pail of water, for she
could not think of coming herself or letting any of the children come near my place if spouting
fires were expected.

The well-driving had gone on and on, with intermissions on account of sickness in the families
of the various workmen, until it had reached the limit which I had fixed, and we had not found
water in sufficient quantity, hot or cold, nor had we struck fire, or anything else worth having.

The well-drivers and some specialists were of the opinion that if I were to go ten, twenty,
or perhaps a hundred feet deeper, I would be very likely to get all the water I wanted.  But,
of course, they could not tell how deep they must go, for some wells were over a thousand feet
deep.  I shook my head at this.  There seemed to be only one thing certain about this drilling
business, and that was the expense.  I declined to go any deeper.

"I think," a facetious neighbor said to me, "it would be cheaper for you to buy a lot of Apollinaris
water,--at wholesale rates, of course,--and let your men open so many bottles a day and empty
them into your tank.  You would find that would pay better in the long run."

Phineas Colwell told me that when he had informed Mrs. Perch that I was going to stop operations,
she was in a dreadful state of mind.  After all she had undergone, she said, it was simply
cruel to think of my stopping before I got water, and that after having dried up her spring!

This is what Phineas said she said, but when next I met her she told me that he had declared
that if I had put the well where he thought it ought to be, I should have been having all the
water I wanted before now.

My optimist was dreadfully cast down when he heard that I would drive no deeper.

"I have been afraid of this," he said.  "I have, been afraid of it. And if circumstances had
so arranged themselves that I should have command of money, I should have been glad to assume
the expense of deeper explorations.  I have been thinking a great deal about the matter, and
I feel quite sure that even if you did not get water or anything else that might prove of value
to you, it would be a great advantage to have a pipe sunk into the earth to the depth of, say,
one thousand feet."

"What possible advantage could that be?" I asked.

"I will tell you," he said.  "You would then have one of the grandest opportunities ever offered
to man of constructing a gravity-engine. This would be an engine which would be of no expense
at all to run.  It would need no fuel.  Gravity would be the power.  It would work a pump splendidly.
You could start it when you liked and stop it when you liked."

"Pump!" said I.  "What is the good of a pump without water?"

"Oh, of course you would have to have water," he answered.  "But, no matter how you get it,
you will have to pump it up to your tank so as to make it circulate over your house.  Now,
my gravity-pump would do this beautifully.  You see, the pump would be arranged with cog-wheels
and all that sort of thing, and the power would be supplied by a weight, which would be a cylinder
of lead or iron, fastened to a rope and run down inside your pipe.  Just think of it!  It would
run down a thousand feet, and where is there anything worked by weight that has such a fall
as that?"

I laughed.  "That is all very well," said I.  "But how about the power required to wind that
weight up again when it got to the bottom?  I should have to have an engine to do that."

"Oh, no," said he.  "I have planned the thing better than that.  You see, the greater the weight
the greater the power and the velocity. Now, if you take a solid cylinder of lead about four
inches in diameter, so that it would slip easily down your pipe,--you might grease it, for
that matter,--and twenty feet in length, it would be an enormous weight, and in slowly descending
for about an hour a day--for that would be long enough for your pumping--and going down a thousand
feet, it would run your engine for a year.  Now, then, at the end of the year you could not
expect to haul that weight up again.  You would have a trigger arrangement which would detach
it from the rope when it got to the bottom.  Then you would wind up your rope,--a man could
do that in a short time,--and you would attach another cylinder of lead, and that would run
your engine for another year, minus a few days, because it would only go down nine hundred
and eighty feet.  The next year you would put on another cylinder, and so on.  I have not worked
out the figures exactly, but I think that in this way your engine would run for thirty years
before the pipe became entirely filled with cylinders.  That would be probably as long as you
would care to have water forced into the house."

"Yes"' said I, "I think that is likely."

He saw that his scheme did not strike me favorably.  Suddenly a light flashed across his face.

"I tell you what you can do with your pipe," he said, "just as it is. You can set up a clock
over it which would run for forty years without winding."

I smiled, and he turned sadly away to his horse; but he had not ridden ten yards before he
came back and called to me over the wall.

"If the earth at the bottom of your pipe should ever yield to pressure and give way, and if
water or gas, or--anything, should be squirted out of it, I beg you will let me know as soon
as possible."

I promised to do so.

When the pounding was at an end my wife and child came home.  But the season continued dry,
and even their presence could not counteract the feeling of aridity which seemed to permeate
everything which belonged to us, material or immaterial.  We had a great deal of commiseration
from our neighbors.  I think even Mrs. Betty Perch began to pity us a little, for her spring
had begun to trickle again in a small way, and she sent word to me that if we were really in
need of water she would be willing to divide with us.  Phineas Colwell was sorry for us, of
course, but he could not help feeling and saying that if I had consulted him the misfortune
would have been prevented.

It was late in the summer when my wife returned, and when she made her first visit of inspection
to the grounds and gardens, her eyes, of course, fell upon the unfinished well.  She was shocked.

"I never saw such a scene of wreckage," she said.  "It looks like a Western town after a cyclone.
I think the best thing you can do is to have this dreadful litter cleared up, the ground smoothed
and raked, the wall mended, and the roof put back on that little house, and then if we can
make anybody believe it is an ice-house, so much the better."

This was good advice, and I sent for a man to put the vicinity of the well in order and give
it the air of neatness which characterizes the rest of our home.

The man who came was named Mr. Barnet.  He was a contemplative fellow with a pipe in his mouth.
After having worked at the place for half a day he sent for me and said:

"I'll tell you what I would do if I was in your place.  I'd put that pump-house in order, and
I'd set up the engine, and put the pump down into that thirty-foot well you first dug, and
I'd pump water into my house."

I looked at him in amazement.

"There's lots of water in that well," he continued, "and if there's that much now in this drought,
you will surely have ever so much more when the weather isn't so dry.  I have measured the
water, and I know."

I could not understand him.  It seemed to me that he was talking wildly.  He filled his pipe
and lighted it and sat upon the wall.

"Now," said he, after he had taken a few puffs, "I'll tell you where the trouble's been with
your well.  People are always in too big a hurry in this world about all sorts of things as
well as wells.  I am a well-digger and I know all about them.  We know if there is any water
in the ground it will always find its way to the deepest hole there is, and we dig a well so
as to give it a deep hole to go to in the place where we want it.  But you can't expect the
water to come to that hole just the very day it's finished.  Of course you will get some, because
it's right there in the neighborhood, but there is always a lot more that will come if you
give it time.  It's got to make little channels and passages for itself, and of course it takes
time to do that.  It's like settling up a new country.  Only a few pioneers come at first,
and you have to wait for the population to flow in.  This being a dry season, and the water
in the ground a little sluggish on that account, it was a good while finding out where your
well was.  If I had happened along when you was talking about a well, I think I should have
said to you that I knew a proverb which would about fit your case, and that is: `Let well enough
alone.'"

I felt like taking this good man by the hand, but I did not.  I only told him to go ahead and
do everything that was proper.

The next morning, as I was going to the well, I saw Phineas Colwell coming down the lane and
Mrs. Betty Perch coming up it.  I did not wish them to question me, so I stepped behind some
bushes.  When they met they stopped.

"Upon my word!" exclaimed Mrs. Betty, "if he isn't going to work again on that everlasting
well!  If he's got so much money he don't know what to do with it, I could tell him that there's
people in this world, and not far away either, who would be the better for some of it.  It's
a sin and a shame and an abomination.  Do you believe, Mr. Colwell, that there is the least
chance in the world of his ever getting water enough out of that well to shave himself with?"

"Mrs. Perch," said Phineas, "it ain't no use talking about that well. It ain't no use, and
it never can be no use, because it's in the wrong place.  If he ever pumps water out of that
well into his house I'll do--"

"What will you do?" asked Mr. Barnet, who just then appeared from the recesses of the engine-house.

"I'll do anything on this earth that you choose to name," said Phineas. "I am safe, whatever
it is."

"Well, then," said Mr. Barnet, knocking the ashes from his pipe preparatory to filling it again,
"will you marry Mrs. Perch?"

Phineas laughed.  "Yes," he said.  "I promised I would do anything, and I'll promise that."

"A slim chance for me," said Mrs. Betty, "even if I'd have you."  And she marched on with her
nose in the air.

When Mr. Barnet got fairly to work with his derrick, his men, and his buckets, he found that
there was a good deal more to do than he had expected.  The well-drivers had injured the original
well by breaking some of the tiles which lined it, and these had to be taken out and others
put in, and in the course of this work other improvements suggested themselves and were made.
Several times operations were delayed by sickness in the family of Mr. Barnet, and also in
the families of his workmen, but still the work went on in a very fair manner, although much
more slowly than had been supposed by any one. But in the course of time--I will not say how
much time--the work was finished, the engine was in its place, and it pumped water into my
house, and every day since then it has pumped all the water we need, pure, cold, and delicious.

Knowing the promise Phineas Colwell had made, and feeling desirous of having everything which
concerned my well settled and finished, I went to look for him to remind him of his duty toward
Mrs. Perch, but I could not find that naval and military mechanical agriculturist.  He had
gone away to take a job or a contract,--I could not discover which,--and he has not since appeared
in our neighborhood.  Mrs. Perch is very severe on me about this.

"There's plenty of bad things come out of that well," she said, "but I never thought anything
bad enough would come out of it to make Mr. Colwell go away and leave me to keep on being a
widow with all them orphans."

MR. TOLMAN

Mr. Tolman was a gentleman whose apparent age was of a varying character.  At times, when deep
in thought on business matters or other affairs, one might have thought him fifty-five or fifty-seven,
or even sixty.  Ordinarily, however, when things were running along in a satisfactory and commonplace
way, he appeared to be about fifty years old, while upon some extraordinary occasions, when
the world assumed an unusually attractive aspect, his age seemed to run down to forty-five or less.

He was the head of a business firm.  In fact, he was the only member of it.  The firm was known
as Pusey and Co.  But Pusey had long been dead and the "Co.," of which Mr. Tolman had been
a member, was dissolved. Our elderly hero, having bought out the business, firm-name and all,
for many years had carried it on with success and profit.  His counting-house was a small and
quiet place, but a great deal of money had been made in it.  Mr. Tolman was rich--very rich indeed.

And yet, as he sat in his counting-room one winter evening, he looked his oldest.  He had on
his hat and his overcoat, his gloves and his fur collar.  Every one else in the establishment
had gone home, and he, with the keys in his hand, was ready to lock up and leave also.  He
often stayed later than any one else, and left the keys with Mr. Canterfield, the head clerk,
as he passed his house on his way home.

Mr. Tolman seemed in no hurry to go.  He simply sat and thought, and increased his apparent
age.  The truth was, he did not want to go home. He was tired of going home.  This was not
because his home was not a pleasant one.  No single gentleman in the city had a handsomer or
more comfortable suite of rooms.  It was not because he felt lonely, or regretted that a wife
and children did not brighten and enliven his home.  He was perfectly satisfied to be a bachelor.
The conditions suited him exactly.  But, in spite of all this, he was tired of going home.

"I wish," said Mr. Tolman to himself, "that I could feel some interest in going home."  Then
he rose and took a turn or two up and down the room.  But as that did not seem to give him
any more interest in the matter, he sat down again.  "I wish it were necessary for me to go
home," said he, "but it isn't."  So then he fell again to thinking. "What I need," he said,
after a while, "is to depend more upon myself--to feel that I am necessary to myself.  Just
now I'm not.  I'll stop going home--at least, in this way.  Where's the sense in envying other
men, when I can have all that they have just as well as not?  And I'll have it, too," said
Mr. Tolman, as he went out and locked the doors.  Once in the streets, and walking rapidly,
his ideas shaped themselves easily and readily into a plan which, by the time he reached the
house of his head clerk, was quite matured.  Mr. Canterfield was just going down to dinner
as his employer rang the bell, so he opened the door himself.  "I will detain you but a minute
or two," said Mr. Tolman, handing the keys to Mr. Canterfield.  "Shall we step into the parlor?"

When his employer had gone, and Mr. Canterfield had joined his family at the dinner-table,
his wife immediately asked him what Mr. Tolman wanted.

"Only to say that he is going away to-morrow, and that I am to attend to the business, and
send his personal letters to ----," naming a city not a hundred miles away.

"How long is he going to stay?"

"He didn't say," answered Mr. Canterfield.

"I'll tell you what he ought to do," said the lady.  "He ought to make you a partner in the
firm, and then he could go away and stay as long as he pleased."

"He can do that now," returned her husband.  "He has made a good many trips since I have been
with him, and things have gone on very much in the same way as when he is here.  He knows that."

"But still you'd like to be a partner?"

"Oh, yes," said Mr. Canterfield.

"And common gratitude ought to prompt him to make you one," said his wife.

Mr. Tolman went home and wrote a will.  He left all his property, with the exception of a few
legacies, to the richest and most powerful charitable organization in the country.

"People will think I am crazy," said he to himself, "and if I should die while I am carrying
out my plan, I will leave the task of defending my sanity to people who are able to make a
good fight for me."  And before he went to bed his will was signed and witnessed.

The next day he packed a trunk and left for the neighboring city.  His apartments were to be
kept in readiness for his return at any time.  If you had seen him walking over to the railroad
depot, you would have taken him for a man of forty-five.

When he arrived at his destination, Mr. Tolman established himself temporarily at a hotel,
and spent the next three or four days in walking about the city looking for what he wanted.
What he wanted was rather difficult to define, but the way in which he put the matter to himself
was something like this:

"I would like to find a snug little place where, I can live, and carry on some business which
I can attend to myself, and which will bring me into contact with people of all sorts--people
who will interest me.  It must be a small business, because I don't want to have to work very
hard, and it must be snug and comfortable, because I want to enjoy it. I would like a shop
of some sort, because that brings a man face to face with his fellow-creatures."

The city in which he was walking about was one of the best places in the country in which to
find the place of business he desired.  It was full of independent little shops.  But Mr. Tolman
could not readily find one which resembled his ideal.  A small dry-goods establishment seemed
to presuppose a female proprietor.  A grocery store would give him many interesting customers;
but he did not know much about groceries, and the business did not appear to him to possess
any aesthetic features.

He was much pleased by a small shop belonging to a taxidermist.  It was exceedingly cosey,
and the business was probably not so great as to overwork any one.  He might send the birds
and beasts which were brought to be stuffed to some practical operator, and have him put them
in proper condition for the customers.  He might--  But no.  It would be very unsatisfactory
to engage in a business of which he knew absolutely nothing.  A taxidermist ought not to blush
with ignorance when asked some simple question about a little dead bird or a defunct fish.
And so he tore himself from the window of this fascinating place, where, he fancied, had his
education been differently managed, he could in time have shown the world the spectacle of
a cheerful and unblighted Mr. Venus.

The shop which at last appeared to suit him best was one which he had passed and looked at
several times before it struck him favorably.  It was in a small brick house in a side street,
but not far from one of the main business avenues of the city.  The shop seemed devoted to
articles of stationery and small notions of various kinds not easy to be classified.  He had
stopped to look at three penknives fastened to a card, which was propped up in the little show-window,
supported on one side by a chess-board with "History of Asia" in gilt letters on the back,
and on the other by a small violin labelled "1 dollar."  And as he gazed past these articles
into the interior of the shop, which was now lighted up, it gradually dawned upon him that
it was something like his ideal of an attractive and interesting business place.  At any rate,
he would go in and look at it.  He did not care for a violin, even at the low price marked
on the one in the window, but a new pocket-knife might be useful.  So he walked in and asked
to look at pocket-knives.

The shop was in charge of a very pleasant old lady of about sixty, who sat sewing behind the
little counter.  While she went to the window and very carefully reached over the articles
displayed therein to get the card of penknives, Mr. Tolman looked about him.  The shop was
quite small, but there seemed to be a good deal in it.  There were shelves behind the counter,
and there were shelves on the opposite wall, and they all seemed well filled with something
or other.  In the corner near the old lady's chair was a little coal stove with a bright fire
in it, and at the back of the shop, at the top of two steps, was a glass door partly open,
through which he saw a small room, with a red carpet on the floor, and a little table apparently
set for a meal.

Mr. Tolman looked at the knives when the old lady showed them to him, and after a good deal
of consideration he selected one which he thought would be a good knife to give to a boy. 
Then he looked over some things in the way of paper-cutters, whist-markers, and such small
matters, which were in a glass case on the counter.  And while he looked at them he talked
to the old lady.

She was a friendly, sociable body, very glad to have any one to talk to, and so it was not
at all difficult for Mr. Tolman, by some general remarks, to draw from her a great many points
about herself and her shop.  She was a widow, with a son who, from her remarks, must have been
forty years old.  He was connected with a mercantile establishment, and they had lived here
for a long time.  While her son was a salesman, and came home every evening, this was very
pleasant. But after he became a commercial traveller, and was away from the city for months
at a time, she did not like it at all.  It was very lonely for her.

Mr. Tolman's heart rose within him, but he did not interrupt her.

"If I could do it," said she, "I would give up this place, and go and live with my sister in
the country.  It would be better for both of us, and Henry could come there just as well as
here when he gets back from his trips."

"Why don't you sell out?" asked Mr. Tolman, a little fearfully, for he began to think that
all this was too easy sailing to be entirely safe.

"That would not be easy," said she, with a smile.  "It might be a long time before we could
find any one who would want to take the place.  We have a fair trade in the store, but it isn't
what it used to be when times were better.  And the library is falling off, too.  Most of the
books are getting pretty old, and it don't pay to spend much money for new ones now."

"The library!" said Mr. Tolman.  "Have you a library?"

"Oh, yes," replied the old lady.  "I've had a circulating library here for nearly fifteen years.
There it is on those two upper shelves behind you."

Mr. Tolman turned, and beheld two long rows of books in brown-paper covers, with a short step-ladder,
standing near the door of the inner room, by which these shelves might be reached.  This pleased
him greatly.  He had had no idea that there was a library here.

"I declare!" said he.  "It must be very pleasant to manage a circulating library--a small one
like this, I mean.  I shouldn't mind going into a business of the kind myself."

The old lady looked up, surprised.  Did he wish to go into business? She had not supposed that,
just from looking at him.

Mr. Tolman explained his views to her.  He did not tell what he had been doing in the way of
business, or what Mr. Canterfield was doing for him now.  He merely stated his present wishes,
and acknowledged to her that it was the attractiveness of her establishment that had led him
to come in.

"Then you do not want the penknife?" she said quickly.

"Oh, yes, I do," said he.  "And I really believe, if we can come to terms, that I would like
the two other knives, together with the rest of your stock in trade."

The old lady laughed a little nervously.  She hoped very much indeed that they could come to
terms.  She brought a chair from the back room, and Mr. Tolman sat down with her by the stove
to talk it over.  Few customers came in to interrupt them, and they talked the matter over
very thoroughly.  They both came to the conclusion that there would be no difficulty about
terms, nor about Mr. Tolman's ability to carry on the business after a very little instruction
from the present proprietress.  When Mr. Tolman left, it was with the understanding that he
was to call again in a couple of days, when the son Henry would be at home, and matters could
be definitely arranged.

When the three met, the bargain was soon struck.  As each party was so desirous of making it,
few difficulties were interposed.  The old lady, indeed, was in favor of some delay in the
transfer of the establishment, as she would like to clean and dust every shelf and corner and
every article in the place.  But Mr. Tolman was in a hurry to take possession; and as the son
Henry would have to start off on another trip in a short time, he wanted to see his mother
moved and settled before he left.  There was not much to move but trunks and bandboxes, and
some antiquated pieces of furniture of special value to the old lady, for Mr. Tolman insisted
on buying everything in the house, just as it stood.  The whole thing did not cost him, he
said to himself, as much as some of his acquaintances would pay for a horse. The methodical
son Henry took an account of stock, and Mr. Tolman took several lessons from the old lady,
in which she explained to him how to find out the selling prices of the various articles from
the marks on the little tags attached to them.  And she particularly instructed him in the
management of the circulating library.  She informed him of the character of the books, and,
as far as possible, of the character of the regular patrons.  She told him whom he might trust
to take out a book without paying for the one brought in, if they didn't happen to have the
change with them, and she indicated with little crosses opposite their names those persons
who should be required to pay cash down for what they had had, before receiving further benefits.

It was astonishing to see what interest Mr. Tolman took in all this. He was really anxious
to meet some of the people about whom the old lady discoursed.  He tried, too, to remember
a few of the many things she told him of her methods of buying and selling, and the general
management of her shop; and he probably did not forget more than three fourths of what she
told him.

Finally everything was settled to the satisfaction of the two male parties to the bargain,--although
the old lady thought of a hundred things she would yet like to do,--and one fine frosty afternoon
a cart-load of furniture and baggage left the door, the old lady and her son took leave of
the old place, and Mr. Tolman was left sitting behind the little counter, the sole manager
and proprietor of a circulating library and a stationery and notion shop.  He laughed when
he thought of it, but he rubbed his hands and felt very well satisfied.

"There is nothing really crazy about it," he said to himself.  "If there is a thing that I
think I would like, and I can afford to have it, and there's no harm in it, why not have it?"

There was nobody there to say anything against this, so Mr. Tolman rubbed his hands again before
the fire, and rose to walk up and down his shop, and wonder who would be his first customer.

In the course of twenty minutes a little boy opened the door and came in.  Mr. Tolman hastened
behind the counter to receive his commands. The little boy wanted two sheets of note-paper
and an envelope.

"Any particular kind!" asked Mr. Tolman.

The boy didn't know of any particular variety being desired.  He thought the same kind she
always got would do.  And he looked very hard at Mr. Tolman, evidently wondering at the change
in the shopkeeper, but asking no questions.

"You are a regular customer, I suppose," said Mr. Tolman, opening several boxes of paper which
he had taken down from the shelves.  "I have just begun business here, and don't know what
kind of paper you have been in the habit of buying.  But I suppose this will do."  And he took
out a couple of sheets of the best, with an envelope to match. These he carefully tied up in
a piece of thin brown paper, and gave to the boy, who handed him three cents.  Mr. Tolman took
them, smiled, and then, having made a rapid calculation, he called to the boy, who was just
opening the door, and gave him back one cent.

"You have paid me too much," he said.

The boy took the cent, looked at Mr. Tolman, and then got out of the store as quickly as he could.

"Such profits as that are enormous," said Mr. Tolman, "but I suppose the small sales balance
them."  This Mr. Tolman subsequently found to be the case.

One or two other customers came in in the course of the afternoon, and about dark the people
who took out books began to arrive.  These kept Mr. Tolman very busy.  He not only had to do
a good deal of entering and cancelling, but he had to answer a great many questions about the
change in proprietorship, and the probability of his getting in some new books, with suggestions
as to the quantity and character of these, mingled with a few dissatisfied remarks in regard
to the volumes already on hand.

Every one seemed sorry that the old lady had gone away.  But Mr. Tolman was so pleasant and
anxious to please, and took such an interest in their selection of books, that only one of
the subscribers appeared to take the change very much to heart.  This was a young man who was
forty-three cents in arrears.  He was a long time selecting a book, and when at last he brought
it to Mr. Tolman to be entered, he told him in a low voice that he hoped there would be no
objection to letting his account run on for a little while longer.  On the first of the month
he would settle it, and then he hoped to be able to pay cash whenever he brought in a book.

Mr. Tolman looked for his name on the old lady's list, and, finding no cross against it, told
him that it was all right, and that the first of the month would do very well.  The young man
went away perfectly satisfied with the new librarian.  Thus did Mr. Tolman begin to build up
his popularity.  As the evening grew on he found himself becoming very hungry.  But he did
not like to shut up the shop, for every now and then some one dropped in, sometimes to ask
what time it was, and sometimes to make a little purchase, while there were still some library
patrons coming in at intervals.

However, taking courage during a short rest from customers, he put up the shutters, locked
the door, and hurried off to a hotel, where he partook of a meal such as few keepers of little
shops ever think of indulging in.

The next morning Mr. Tolman got his own breakfast.  This was delightful.  He had seen how cosily
the old lady had spread her table in the little back room, where there was a stove suitable
for any cooking he might wish to indulge in, and he longed for such a cosey meal.  There were
plenty of stock provisions in the house, which he had purchased with the rest of the goods,
and he went out and bought himself a fresh loaf of bread.  Then he broiled a piece of ham,
made some good strong tea, boiled some eggs, and had a breakfast on the little round table
which, though plain enough, he enjoyed more than any breakfast at his club which he could remember.
He had opened the shop, and sat facing the glass door, hoping, almost, that there would be
some interruption to his meal.  It would seem so much more proper in that sort of business
if he had to get up and go attend to a customer.

Before the evening of that day Mr. Tolman became convinced that he would soon be obliged to
employ a boy or some one to attend to the establishment during his absence.  After breakfast,
a woman recommended by the old lady came to make his bed and clean up generally, but when she
had gone he was left alone with his shop.  He determined not to allow this responsibility to
injure his health, and so at one o'clock boldly locked the shop door and went out to his lunch.
He hoped that no one would call during his absence, but when he returned he found a little
girl with a pitcher standing at the door.  She came to borrow half a pint of milk.

"Milk!" exclaimed Mr. Tolman, in surprise.  "Why, my child, I have no milk.  I don't even use
it in my tea."

The little girl looked very much disappointed.  "Is Mrs. Walker gone away for good?" said she.

"Yes," replied Mr. Tolman.  "But I would be just as willing to lend you the milk as she would
be, if I had any.  Is there any place near here where you can buy milk?"

"Oh, yes," said the girl.  "You can get it round in the market-house."

"How much would half a pint cost?" he asked.

"Three cents," replied the girl.

"Well, then," said Mr. Tolman, "here are three cents.  You can go and buy the milk for me,
and then you can borrow it.  Will that suit?"

The girl thought it would suit very well, and away she went.

Even this little incident pleased Mr. Tolman.  It was so very novel. When he came back from
his dinner in the evening, he found two circulating library subscribers stamping their feet
on the door-step, and he afterwards heard that several others had called and gone away. It
would certainly injure the library if he suspended business at meal-times.  He could easily
have his choice of a hundred boys if he chose to advertise for one, but he shrank from having
a youngster in the place.  It would interfere greatly with his cosiness and his experiences.
He might possibly find a boy who went to school, and who would be willing to come at noon and
in the evening if he were paid enough.  But it would have to be a very steady and responsible
boy.  He would think it over before taking any steps.

He thought it over for a day or two, but he did not spend his whole time in doing so.  When
he had no customers, he sauntered about in the little parlor over the shop, with its odd old
furniture, its quaint prints on the walls, and its absurd ornaments on the mantelpiece.  The
other little rooms seemed almost as funny to him, and he was sorry when the bell on the shop
door called him down from their contemplation.  It was pleasant to him to think that he owned
all these odd things.  The ownership of the varied goods in the shop also gave him an agreeable
feeling which none of his other possessions had ever afforded him.  It was all so odd and novel.

He liked much to look over the books in the library.  Many of them were old novels, the names
of which were familiar enough to him, but which he had never read.  He determined to read some
of them as soon as he felt fixed and settled.

In looking over the book in which the names and accounts of the subscribers were entered, he
amused himself by wondering what sort of persons they were who had out certain books.  Who,
for instance, wanted to read "The Book of Cats," and who could possibly care for "The Mysteries
of Udolpho"?  But the unknown person in regard to whom Mr. Tolman felt the greatest curiosity
was the subscriber who now had in his possession a volume entitled "Dormstock's Logarithms
of the Diapason."

"How on earth," exclaimed Mr. Tolman, "did such a book get into this library?  And where on
earth did the person spring from who would want to take it out?  And not only want to take
it," he continued, as he examined the entry regarding the volume, "but come and have it renewed
one, two, three, four--nine times!  He has had that book for eighteen weeks!"

Without exactly making up his mind to do so, Mr. Tolman deferred taking steps toward getting
an assistant until P.  Glascow, the person in question, should make an appearance, and it was
nearly time for the book to be brought in again.

"If I get a boy now," thought Mr. Tolman, "Glascow will be sure to come and bring the book
while I am out."

In almost exactly two weeks from the date of the last renewal of the book, P. Glascow came
in.  It was the middle of the afternoon, and Mr. Tolman was alone.  This investigator of musical
philosophy was a quiet young man of about thirty, wearing a light-brown cloak, and carrying
under one arm a large book.

P. Glascow was surprised when he heard of the change in the proprietorship of the library.
Still, he hoped that there would be no objection to his renewing the book which he had with
him, and which he had taken out some time ago.

"Oh, no," said Mr. Tolman, "none in the world.  In fact, I don't suppose there are any other
subscribers who would want it.  I have had the curiosity to look to see if it had ever been
taken out before, and I find it has not."

The young man smiled quietly.  "No," said he, "I suppose not.  It is not every one who would
care to study the higher mathematics of music, especially when treated as Dormstock treats
the subject."

"He seems to go into it pretty deeply," remarked Mr. Tolman, who had taken up the book.  "At
least, I should think so, judging from all these calculations, and problems, and squares, and
cubes."

"Indeed he does," said Glascow.  "And although I have had the book some months, and have more
reading time at my disposal than most persons, I have only reached the fifty-sixth page, and
doubt if I shall not have to review some of that before I can feel that I thoroughly understand
it."

"And there are three hundred and forty pages in all!" said Mr. Tolman, compassionately.

"Yes," replied the other.  "But I am quite sure that the matter will grow easier as I proceed.
I have found that out from what I have already done."

"You say you have a good deal of leisure?" remarked Mr. Tolman.  "Is the musical business dull
at present?"

"Oh, I'm not in the musical business," said Glascow.  "I have a great love for music, and wish
to thoroughly understand it.  But my business is quite different.  I am a night druggist, and
that is the reason I have so much leisure for reading."

"A night druggist?" repeated Mr. Tolman, inquiringly.

"Yes, sir," said the other.  "I am in a large downtown drug store which is kept open all night,
and I go on duty after the day clerks leave."

"And does that give you more leisure?" asked Mr. Tolman.

"It seems to," answered Glascow.  "I sleep until about noon, and then I have the rest of the
day, until seven o'clock, to myself.  I think that people who work at night can make a more
satisfactory use of their own time than those who work in the daytime.  In the summer I can
take a trip on the river, or go somewhere out of town, every day, if I like."

"Daylight is more available for many things, that is true," said Mr. Tolman.  "But is it not
dreadfully lonely sitting in a drug store all night?  There can't be many people to come to
buy medicine at night.  I thought there was generally a night-bell to drug stores, by which
a clerk could be awakened if anybody wanted anything."

"It's not very lonely in our store at night," said Glascow.  "In fact, it's often more lively
then than in the daytime.  You see, we are right down among the newspaper offices, and there's
always somebody coming in for soda-water, or cigars, or something or other.  The store is a
bright, warm place for the night editors and reporters to meet together and talk and drink
hot soda, and there's always a knot of 'em around the stove about the time the papers begin
to go to press.  And they're a lively set, I can tell you, sir.  I've heard some of the best
stories I ever heard in my life told in our place after three o'clock in the morning."

"A strange life!" said Mr. Tolman.  "Do you know, I never thought that people amused themselves
in that way--and night after night, I suppose."

"Yes, sir, night after night, Sundays and all."

The night druggist now took up his book.

"Going home to read?" asked Mr. Tolman.

"Well, no," said the other.  "It's rather cold this afternoon to read. I think I'll take a
brisk walk."

"Can't you leave your book until you return!" asked Mr. Tolman.  "That is, if you will come
back this way.  It's an awkward book to carry about."

"Thank you, I will," said Glascow.  "I shall come back this way."

When he had gone, Mr. Tolman took up the book, and began to look over it more carefully than
he had done before.  But his examination did not last long.

"How anybody of common sense can take any interest in this stuff is beyond my comprehension,"
said Mr. Tolman, as he closed the book and put it on a little shelf behind the counter.

When Glascow came back, Mr. Tolman asked him to stay and warm himself. And then, after they
had talked for a short time, Mr. Tolman began to feel hungry.  He had his winter appetite,
and had lunched early.  So said he to the night druggist, who had opened his "Dormstock," 
"How would you like to sit here and read awhile, while I go and get my dinner?  I will light
the gas, and you can be very comfortable here, if you are not in a hurry."

P. Glascow was in no hurry at all, and was very glad to have some quiet reading by a warm fire;
and so Mr. Tolman left him, feeling perfectly confident that a man who had been allowed by
the old lady to renew a book nine times must be perfectly trustworthy.

When Mr. Tolman returned, the two had some further conversation in the corner by the little stove.

"It must be rather annoying," said the night druggist, "not to be able to go out to your meals
without shutting up your shop.  If you like," said he, rather hesitatingly, "I will stop in
about this time in the afternoon, and stay here while you go to dinner.  I'll be glad to do
this until you get an assistant.  I can easily attend to most people who come in, and others
can wait."

Mr. Tolman jumped at this proposition.  It was exactly what he wanted.

So P. Glascow came every afternoon and read "Dormstock" while Mr. Tolman went to dinner; and
before long he came at lunch-time also.  It was just as convenient as not, he said.  He had
finished his breakfast, and would like to read awhile.  Mr. Tolman fancied that the night druggist's
lodgings were, perhaps, not very well warmed, which idea explained the desire to walk rather
than read on a cold afternoon. Glascow's name was entered on the free list, and he always took
away the "Dormstock" at night, because he might have a chance of looking into it at the store,
when custom began to grow slack in the latter part of the early morning.

One afternoon there came into the shop a young lady, who brought back two books which she had
had for more than a month.  She made no excuses for keeping the books longer than the prescribed
time, but simply handed them in and paid her fine.  Mr. Tolman did not like to take this money,
for it was the first of the kind he had received; but the young lady looked as if she were
well able to afford the luxury of keeping books over their time, and business was business.
So he gravely gave her her change.  Then she said she would like to take out "Dormstock's Logarithms
of the Diapason."

Mr. Tolman stared at her.  She was a bright, handsome young lady, and looked as if she had
very good sense.  He could not understand it.  But he told her the book was out.

"Out!" she said.  "Why, it's always out.  It seems strange to me that there should be such
a demand for that book.  I have been trying to get it for ever so long."

"It IS strange," said Mr. Tolman, "but it is certainly in demand.  Did Mrs. Walker ever make
you any promises about it?"

"No," said she, "but I thought my turn would come around some time. And I particularly want
the book just now."

Mr. Tolman felt somewhat troubled.  He knew that the night druggist ought not to monopolize
the volume, and yet he did not wish to disoblige one who was so useful to him, and who took
such an earnest interest in the book.  And he could not temporize with the young lady, and
say that he thought the book would soon be in.  He knew it would not.  There were three hundred
and forty pages of it.  So he merely remarked that he was sorry.

"So am I," said the young lady, "very sorry.  It so happens that just now I have a peculiar
opportunity for studying that book which may not occur again."

There was something in Mr. Tolman's sympathetic face which seemed to invite her confidence,
and she continued.

"I am a teacher," she said, "and on account of certain circumstances I have a holiday for a
month, which I intended to give up almost entirely to the study of music, and I particularly
wanted "Dormstock."  Do you think there is any chance of its early return, and will you reserve
it for me?"

"Reserve it!" said Mr. Tolman.  "Most certainly I will."  And then he reflected a second or
two.  "If you will come here the day after to-morrow, I will be able to tell you something
definite."

She said she would come.

Mr. Tolman was out a long time at lunch-time the next day.  He went to all the leading book-stores
to see if he could buy a copy of Dormstock's great work.  But he was unsuccessful.  The booksellers
told him that there was no probability that he could get a copy in the country, unless, indeed,
he found it in the stock of some second-hand dealer, and that even if he sent to England for
it, where it was published, it was not likely he could get it, for it had been long out of
print.  There was no demand at all for it.  The next day he went to several second-hand stores,
but no "Dormstock" could he find.

When he came back he spoke to Glascow on the subject.  He was sorry to do so, but thought that
simple justice compelled him to mention the matter.  The night druggist was thrown into a perturbed
state of mind by the information that some one wanted his beloved book.

"A woman!" he exclaimed.  "Why, she would not understand two pages out of the whole of it.
It is too bad.  I didn't suppose any one would want this book."

"Do not disturb yourself too much," said Mr. Tolman.  "I am not sure that you ought to give it up."

"I am very glad to hear you say so," said Glascow.  "I have no doubt it is only a passing fancy
with her.  I dare say she would really rather have a good new novel."  And then, having heard
that the lady was expected that afternoon, he went out to walk, with the "Dormstock" under his arm.

When the young lady arrived, an hour or so later, she was not at all satisfied to take out
a new novel, and was very sorry indeed not to find the "Logarithms of the Diapason" waiting
for her.  Mr. Tolman told her that he had tried to buy another copy of the work, and for this
she expressed herself gratefully.  He also found himself compelled to say that the book was
in the possession of a gentleman who had had it for some time--all the time it had been out,
in fact--and had not yet finished it.

At this the young lady seemed somewhat nettled.

"Is it not against the rules for any person to keep one book out so long?" she asked.

"No," said Mr. Tolman.  "I have looked into that.  Our rules are very simple, and merely say
that a book may be renewed by the payment of a certain sum."

"Then I am never to have it?" remarked the young lady.

"Oh, I wouldn't despair about it," said Mr. Tolman.  "He has not had time to reflect upon the
matter.  He is a reasonable young man, and I believe that he will be willing to give up his
study of the book for a time and let you take it."

"No," said she, "I don't wish that.  If he is studying, as you say he is, day and night, I
do not wish to interrupt him.  I should want the book at least a month, and that, I suppose,
would upset his course of study entirely.  But I do not think any one should begin in a circulating
library to study a book that will take him a year to finish; for, from what you say, it will
take this gentleman at least that time to finish Dormstock's book." So she went her way.

When P. Glascow heard all this in the evening, he was very grave.  He had evidently been reflecting.

"It is not fair," said he.  "I ought not to keep the book so long.  I now give it up for a
while.  You may let her have it when she comes." And he put the "Dormstock" on the counter,
and went and sat down by the stove.

Mr. Tolman was grieved.  He knew the night druggist had done right, but still he was sorry
for him.  "What will you do?" he asked.  "Will you stop your studies?"

"Oh, no," said Glascow, gazing solemnly into the stove.  "I will take up some other books on
the diapason which I have, and so will keep my ideas fresh on the subject until this lady is
done with the book.  I do not really believe she will study it very long."  Then he added:
"If it is all the same to you, I will come around here and read, as I have been doing, until
you shall get a regular assistant."

Mr. Tolman would be delighted to have him come, he said.  He had entirely given up the idea
of getting an assistant, but this he did not say.

It was some time before the lady came back, and Mr. Tolman was afraid she was not coming at
all.  But she did come, and asked for Mrs. Burney's "Evelina."  She smiled when she named the
book, and said that she believed she would have to take a novel, after all, and she had always
wanted to read that one.

"I wouldn't take a novel if I were you," said Mr. Tolman; and he triumphantly took down the
"Dormstock" and laid it before her.

She was evidently much pleased, but when he told her of Mr. Glascow's gentlemanly conduct in
the matter, her countenance instantly changed.

"Not at all," said she, laying down the book.  "I will not break up his study.  I will take
the `Evelina' if you please."

And as no persuasion from Mr. Tolman had any effect upon her, she went away with Mrs. Burney's
novel in her muff.

"Now, then," said Mr. Tolman to Glascow, in the evening, "you may as well take the book along
with you.  She won't have it."

But Glascow would do nothing of the kind.  "No," he remarked, as he sat looking into the stove.
"When I said I would let her have it, I meant it.  She'll take it when she sees that it continues
to remain in the library."

Glascow was mistaken: she did not take it, having the idea that he would soon conclude that
it would be wiser for him to read it than to let it stand idly on the shelf.

"It would serve them both right," said Mr. Tolman to himself, "if somebody else should come
and take it."  But there was no one else among his subscribers who would even think of such
a thing.

One day, however, the young lady came in and asked to look at the book. "Don't think that I
am going to take it out," she said, noticing Mr. Tolman's look of pleasure as he handed her
the volume.  "I only wish to see what he says on a certain subject which I am studying now."
And so she sat down by the stove on the chair which Mr. Tolman placed for her, and opened "Dormstock."

She sat earnestly poring over the book for half an hour or more, and then she looked up and
said:  "I really cannot make out what this part means.  Excuse my troubling you, but I would
be very glad if you would explain the latter part of this passage."

"Me!" exclaimed Mr. Tolman.  "Why, my good madam,--miss, I mean,--I couldn't explain it to
you if it were to save my life.  But what page is it?" said he, looking at his watch.

"Page twenty-four," answered the young lady.

"Oh, well, then," said he, "if you can wait ten or fifteen minutes, the gentleman who has had
the book will be here, and I think he can explain anything in the first part of the work."

The young lady seemed to hesitate whether to wait or not; but as she had a certain curiosity
to see what sort of a person he was who had been so absorbed in the book, she concluded to
sit a little longer and look into some other parts of the volume.

The night druggist soon came in, and when Mr. Tolman introduced him to the lady, he readily
agreed to explain the passage to her if he could. So Mr. Tolman got him a chair from the inner
room, and he also sat down by the stove.

The explanation was difficult, but it was achieved at last, and then the young lady broached
the subject of leaving the book unused.  This was discussed for some time, but came to nothing,
although Mr. Tolman put down his afternoon paper and joined in the argument, urging, among
other points, that as the matter now stood he was deprived by the dead-lock of all income from
the book.  But even this strong argument proved of no avail.

"Then I will tell you what I wish you would do," said Mr. Tolman, as the young lady rose to
go: "come here and look at the book whenever you wish to do so.  I would like to make this
more of a reading-room, anyway.  It would give me more company."

After this the young lady looked into "Dormstock" when she came in; and as her holidays had
been extended by the continued absence of the family in which she taught, she had plenty of
time for study, and came quite frequently.  She often met Glascow in the shop, and on such
occasions they generally consulted "Dormstock," and sometimes had quite lengthy talks on musical
matters.  One afternoon they came in together, having met on their way to the library, and
entered into a conversation on diapasonic logarithms, which continued during the lady's stay
in the shop.

"The proper thing," thought Mr. Tolman, "would be for these two people to get married.  Then
they could take the book and study it to their heart's content.  And they would certainly suit
each other, for they are both greatly attached to musical mathematics and philosophy, and neither
of them either plays or sings, as they have told me.  It would be an admirable match."

Mr. Tolman thought over this matter a good deal, and at last determined to mention it to Glascow.
When he did so, the young man colored, and expressed the opinion that it would be of no use
to think of such a thing.  But it was evident from his manner and subsequent discourse that
he had thought of it.

Mr. Tolman gradually became quite anxious on the subject, especially as the night druggist
did not seem inclined to take any steps in the matter.  The weather was now beginning to be
warmer, and Mr. Tolman reflected that the little house and the little shop were probably much
more cosey and comfortable in winter than in summer.  There were higher buildings all about
the house, and even now he began to feel that the circulation of air would be quite as agreeable
as the circulation of books.  He thought a good deal about his airy rooms in the neighboring city.

"Mr. Glascow," said he, one afternoon, "I have made up my mind to sell out this business shortly."

"What!" exclaimed the other.  "Do you mean you will give it up and go away--leave the place
altogether?"

"Yes," replied Mr. Tolman, "I shall give up the place entirely, and leave the city."

The night druggist was shocked.  He had spent many happy hours in that shop, and his hours
there were now becoming pleasanter than ever.  If Mr. Tolman went away, all this must end.
Nothing of the kind could be expected of any new proprietor.

"And considering this," continued Mr. Tolman, "I think it would be well for you to bring your
love matters to a conclusion while I am here to help you."

"My love matters!" exclaimed Mr. Glascow, with a flush.

"Yes, certainly," said Mr. Tolman.  "I have eyes, and I know all about it.  Now let me tell
you what I think.  When a thing is to be done, it ought to be done the first time there is
a good chance.  That's the way I do business.  Now you might as well come around here to-morrow
afternoon prepared to propose to Miss Edwards.  She is due to-morrow, for she has been two
days away.  If she doesn't come, we will postpone the matter until the next day.  But you should
be ready to-morrow.  I don't believe you can see her much when you don't meet her here, for
that family is expected back very soon, and from what I infer from her account of her employers,
you won't care to visit her at their house."

The night druggist wanted to think about it.

"There is nothing to think," said Mr. Tolman.  "We know all about the lady."  (He spoke truly,
for he had informed himself about both parties to the affair.)  "Take my advice, and be here
to-morrow afternoon--and come rather early."

The next morning Mr. Tolman went up to his parlor on the second floor, and brought down two
blue stuffed chairs, the best he had, and put them in the little room back of the shop.  He
also brought down one or two knickknacks and put them on the mantelpiece, and he dusted and
brightened up the room as well as he could.  He even covered the table with a red cloth from
the parlor.

When the young lady arrived, he invited her to walk into the back room to look over some new
books he had just got in.  If she had known he proposed to give up the business, she would
have thought it rather strange that he should be buying new books.  But she knew nothing of
his intentions.  When she was seated at the table whereon the new books were spread, Mr. Tolman
stepped outside of the shop door to watch for Glascow's approach.  He soon appeared.

"Walk right in," said Mr. Tolman.  "She's in the back room looking over books.  I'll wait here,
and keep out customers as far as possible. It's pleasant, and I want a little fresh air.  I'll
give you twenty minutes."

Glascow was pale, but he went in without a word, and Mr. Tolman, with his hands under his coat-tail,
and his feet rather far apart, established a blockade on the doorstep.  He stood there for
some time, looking at the people outside, and wondering what the people inside were doing.
The little girl who had borrowed the milk of him, and who had never returned it, was about
to pass the door; but seeing him standing there, she crossed over to the other side of the
street.  But he did not notice her.  He was wondering if it was time to go in.  A boy came
up to the door, and wanted to know if he kept Easter eggs. Mr. Tolman was happy to say he did
not.  When he had allowed the night druggist a very liberal twenty minutes, he went in.  As
he entered the shop door, giving the bell a very decided ring as he did so, P. Glascow came
down the two steps that led from the inner room.  His face showed that it was all right with him.

A few days after this Mr. Tolman sold out his stock, good will, and fixtures, together with
the furniture and lease of the house.  And who should he sell out to but to Mr. Glascow!  This
piece of business was one of the happiest points in the whole affair.  There was no reason
why the happy couple should not be married very soon, and the young lady was charmed to give
up her position as teacher and governess in a family, and come and take charge of that delightful
little store and that cunning little house, with almost everything in it that they wanted.

One thing in the establishment Mr. Tolman refused to sell.  That was Dormstock's great work.
He made the couple a present of the volume, and between two of the earlier pages he placed
a bank-note which in value was very much more than that of the ordinary wedding gift.

"What are YOU going to do?" they asked of him, when all these things were settled.  And then
he told them how he was going back to his business in the neighboring city, and he told them
what it was, and how he had come to manage a circulating library.  They did not think him crazy.
People who studied the logarithms of the diapason would not be apt to think a man crazy for
such a little thing as that.

When Mr. Tolman returned to the establishment of Pusey & Co., he found everything going on
very satisfactorily.

"You look ten years younger, sir," said Mr. Canterfield.  "You must have had a very pleasant
time.  I did not think there was enough to interest you in ---- for so long a time."

"Interest me!" exclaimed Mr. Tolman.  "Why, objects of interest crowded on me.  I never had
a more enjoyable holiday in my life."

When he went home that evening (and he found himself quite willing to go), he tore up the will
he had made.  He now felt that there was no necessity for proving his sanity.

MY UNWILLING NEIGHBOR

I was about twenty-five years old when I began life as the owner of a vineyard in western Virginia.
I bought a large tract of land, the greater part of which lay upon the sloping side of one
of the foot-hills of the Blue Ridge, the exposure being that most favorable to the growth of
the vine.  I am an enthusiastic lover of the country and of country life, and believed that
I should derive more pleasure as well as profit from the culture of my far-stretching vineyard
than I would from ordinary farm operations.

I built myself a good house of moderate size upon a little plateau on the higher part of my
estate.  Sitting in my porch, smoking my pipe after the labors of the day, I could look down
over my vineyard into a beautiful valley, with here and there a little curling smoke arising
from some of the few dwellings which were scattered about among the groves and spreading fields,
and above this beauty I could imagine all my hillside clothed in green and purple.

My family consisted of myself alone.  It is true that I expected some day that there would
be others in my house besides myself, but I was not ready for this yet.

During the summer I found it very pleasant to live by myself.  It was a novelty, and I could
arrange and manage everything in my own fashion, which was a pleasure I had not enjoyed when
I lived in my father's house.  But when winter came I found it very lonely.  Even my servants
lived in a cabin at some little distance, and there were many dark and stormy evenings when
the company even of a bore would have been welcome to me.  Sometimes I walked over to the town
and visited my friends there, but this was not feasible on stormy nights, and the winter seemed
to me a very long one.

But spring came, outdoor operations began, and for a few weeks I felt again that I was all-sufficient
for my own pleasure and comfort.  Then came a change.  One of those seasons of bad and stormy
weather which so frequently follow an early spring settled down upon my spirits and my hillside.
It rained, it was cold, fierce winds blew, and I became more anxious for somebody to talk to
than I had been at any time during the winter.

One night, when a very bad storm was raging, I went to bed early, and as I lay awake I revolved
in my mind a scheme of which I had frequently thought before.  I would build a neat little
house on my grounds, not very far away from my house, but not too near, and I would ask Jack
Brandiger to come there and live.  Jack was a friend of mine who was reading law in the town,
and it seemed to me that it would be much more pleasant, and even more profitable, to read
law on a pretty hillside overlooking a charming valley, with woods and mountains behind and
above him, where he could ramble to his heart's content.

I had thought of asking Jack to come and live with me, but this idea I soon dismissed.  I am
a very particular person, and Jack was not.  He left his pipes about in all sorts of places--sometimes
when they were still lighted.  When he came to see me he was quite as likely to put his hat
over the inkstand as to put it anywhere else.  But if Jack lived at a little distance, and
we could go backward and forward to see each other whenever we pleased, that would be quite
another thing.  He could do as he pleased in his own house, and I could do as I pleased in
mine, and we might have many pleasant evenings together.  This was a cheering idea, and I was
planning how we might arrange with the negro woman who managed my household affairs to attend
also to those of Jack when I fell asleep.

I did not sleep long before I was awakened by the increased violence of the storm.  My house
shook with the fury of the wind.

The rain seemed to be pouring on its roof and northern side as if there were a waterfall above
us, and every now and then I could hear a shower of hailstones rattling against the shutters.
My bedroom was one of the rooms on the lower floor, and even there I could hear the pounding
of the deluge and the hailstones upon the roof.

All this was very doleful, and had a tendency to depress the spirits of a man awake and alone
in a good-sized house.  But I shook off this depression.  It was, not agreeable to be up here
by myself in such a terrible storm, but there was nothing to be afraid of, as my house was
new and very strongly built, being constructed of logs, weather-boarded outside and ceiled
within.  It would require a hurricane to blow off the roof, and I believed my shutters to be
hail-proof.  So, as there was no reason to stay awake, I turned over and went to sleep.

I do not know how long it was before I was awakened again, this time not by the noise of the
storm, but by a curious movement of my bedstead.  I had once felt the slight shock of an earthquake,
and it seemed to me that this must be something of the kind.  Certainly my bed moved under
me.  I sat up.  The room was pitchy dark.  In a moment I felt another movement, but this time
it did not seem to me to resemble an earthquake shock.  Such motion, I think, is generally
in horizontal directions, while that which I felt was more like the movement of a ship upon
the water.  The storm was at its height; the wind raged and roared, and the rain seemed to
be pouring down as heavily as ever.

I was about to get up and light the lamp, for even the faintest candle-flame would be some
sort of company at such a grewsome moment, when my bedstead gave another movement, more shiplike
than before.  It actually lurched forward as if it were descending into the trough of the sea,
but, unlike a ship, it did not rise again, but remained in such a slanting position that I
began to slide down toward the foot.  I believe that if it had not been a bedstead provided
with a footboard, I should have slipped out upon the floor.

I did not jump out of bed.  I did not do anything.  I was trying to think, to understand the
situation, to find out whether I was asleep or awake, when I became aware of noises in the
room and all over the house which even through the din of the storm made themselves noticed
by their peculiarity.  Tables, everything in the room, seemed to be grating and grinding on
the floor, and in a moment there was a crash. I knew what that meant; my lamp had slipped off
the table.  Any doubt on that point would have been dispelled by the smell of kerosene which
soon filled the air of the room.

The motion of the bed, which I now believe must have been the motion of the whole house, still
continued; but the grating noises in the room gradually ceased, from which I inferred that
the furniture had brought up against the front wall of the room.

It now was impossible for me to get up and strike a light, for to do so with kerosene oil all
over the floor and its vapor diffused through the room would probably result in setting the
house on fire.  So I must stay in darkness and wait.  I do not think I was very much frightened--I
was so astonished that there was no room in my mind for fear.  In fact, all my mental energies
were occupied in trying to find out what had happened.  It required, however, only a few more
minutes of reflection, and a few more minutes of the grating, bumping, trembling of my house,
to enable me to make up my mind what was happening.  My house was sliding downhill!

The wind must have blown the building from its foundations, and upon the slippery surface of
the hillside, probably lashed into liquid mud by the pouring rain, it was making its way down
toward the valley!  In a flash my mind's eye ran over the whole surface of the country beneath
me as far as I knew it.  I was almost positive that there was no precipice, no terrible chasm
into which my house might fall.  There was nothing but sloping hillside, and beneath that a
wide stretch of fields.

Now there was a new and sudden noise of heavy objects falling upon the roof, and I knew what
that meant: my chimney had been wrenched from its foundations, and the upper part of it had
now toppled over.  I could hear, through the storm, the bricks banging and sliding upon the
slanting roof.  Continuous sounds of cracking and snapping came to me through the closed front
windows, and these were caused, I supposed, by the destruction of the stakes of my vines as
the heavy house moved over them.

Of course, when I thoroughly understood the state of the case, my first impulse was to spring
out of bed, and, as quickly as possible, to get out of that thumping and sliding house.  But
I restrained myself.  The floor might be covered with broken glass, I might not be able to
find my clothes in the darkness and in the jumble of furniture at the end of the room, and
even if I could dress myself, it would be folly to jump out in the midst of that raging storm
into a probable mass of wreckage which I could not see.  It would be far better to remain dry
and warm under my roof.  There was no reason whatever to suppose that the house would go to
pieces, or that it would turn over.  It must stop some time or other, and, until it did so,
I would be safer in my bed than anywhere else.  Therefore in my bed I stayed.

Sitting upright, with my feet pressed against the footboard, I listened and felt.  The noises
of the storm, and the cracking and the snapping and grinding before me and under me, still
continued, although I sometimes thought that the wind was moderating a little, and that the
strange motion was becoming more regular.  I believed the house was moving faster than when
it first began its strange career, but that it was sliding over a smooth surface.  Now I noticed
a succession of loud cracks and snaps at the front of the house, and, from the character of
the sounds, I concluded that my little front porch, which had been acting as a cutwater at
the bow of my shiplike house, had yielded at last to the rough contact with the ground, and
would probably soon be torn away.  This did not disturb me, for the house must still be firm.

It was not long before I perceived that the slanting of my bed was becoming less and less,
and also I was quite sure that the house was moving more slowly.  Then the crackings and snappings
before my front wall ceased altogether.  The bed resumed its ordinary horizontal position,
and although I did not know at what moment the house had ceased sliding and had come to a standstill,
I was sure that it had done so.  It was now resting upon a level surface.  The room was still
perfectly dark, and the storm continued.  It was useless for me to get up until daylight came,--I
could not see what had happened,--so I lay back upon my pillow and tried to imagine upon what
level portion of my farm I had stranded.  While doing this I fell asleep.

When I woke, a little light was stealing into the room through the blinds of my shutters. 
I quickly slipped out of bed, opened a window, and looked out.  Day was just breaking, the
rain and wind had ceased, and I could discern objects.  But it seemed as if I needed some light
in my brain to enable me to comprehend what I saw.  My eyes fell upon nothing familiar.

I did not stop to investigate, however, from my window.  I found my clothes huddled together
with the furniture at the front end of the room, and as soon as I was dressed I went into the
hall and then to my front door.  I quickly jerked this open and was about to step outside when,
suddenly, I stopped.  I was positive that my front porch had been destroyed.  But there I saw
a porch a little lower than mine and a great deal wider, and on the other side of it, not more
than eight feet from me, was a window--the window of a house, and on the other side of the
window was a face--the face of a young girl!  As I stood staring in blank amazement at the
house which presented itself at my front door, the face at the window disappeared, and I was
left to contemplate the scene by myself.  I ran to my back door and threw it open.  There I
saw, stretching up the fields and far up the hillside, the wide path which my house had made
as it came down from its elevated position to the valley beneath, where it had ended its onward
career by stopping up against another house.  As I looked from the back porch I saw that the
ground still continued to slope, so that if my house had not found in its path another building,
it would probably have proceeded somewhat farther on its course.  It was lighter, and I saw
bushes and fences and outbuildings--I was in a back yard.

Almost breathless with amazement and consternation, I ran again to the front door.  When I
reached it I found a young woman standing on the porch of the house before me.  I was about
to say something--I know not what--when she put her finger on her lips and stepped forward.

"Please don't speak loudly," she said.  "I am afraid it will frighten mother.  She is asleep
yet.  I suppose you and your house have been sliding downhill?"

"That is what has happened," said I.  "But I cannot understand it.  It seems to me the most
amazing thing that ever took place on the face of the earth."

"It is very queer," said she, "but hurricanes do blow away houses, and that must have been
a hurricane we had last night, for the wind was strong enough to loosen any house.  I have
often wondered if that house would ever slide downhill."

"My house?"

"Yes," she said.  "Soon after it was built I began to think what a nice clean sweep it could
make from the place where it seemed to be stuck to the side of the mountain, right down here
into the valley."

I could not talk with a girl like this; at least, I could not meet her on her own conversational
grounds.  I was so agitated myself that it seemed unnatural that any one to whom I should speak
should not also be agitated.

"Who are you?" I asked rather brusquely.  "At least, to whom does this house belong?"

"This is my mother's house," said she.  "My mother is Mrs. Carson.  We happen just now to be
living here by ourselves, so I cannot call on any man to help you do anything.  My brother
has always lived with us, but last week he went away."

"You don't seem to be a bit astonished at what has happened," said I.

She was rather a pretty girl, of a cheerful disposition, I should say, for several times she
had smiled as she spoke.

"Oh, I am astonished," she answered; "or, at least, I was.  But I have had time enough to get
over some of it.  It was at least an hour ago when I was awakened by hearing something crack
in the yard.  I went to a window and looked out, and could just barely see that something like
a big building had grown up during the night.  Then I watched it, and watched it, until I made
out it was a whole house; and after that it was not long before I guessed what had happened.
It seemed a simpler thing to me, you know, than it did to you, because I had often thought
about it, and probably you never had."

"You are right there," said I, earnestly.  "It would have been impossible for me to imagine
such a thing."

"At first I thought there was nobody in the house," said she, "but when I heard some one moving
about, I came down to tell whoever had arrived not to make a noise.  I see," she added, with
another of her smiles, "that you think I am a very strange person not to be more flurried by
what has happened.  But really I cannot think of anything else just now, except what mother
will say and do when she comes down and finds you and your house here at the back door.  I
am very sure she will not like it."

"Like it!" I exclaimed.  "Who on earth could like it?"

"Please speak more gently," she said.  "Mother is always a little irritable when her night's
rest has been broken, and I would not like to have her wakened up suddenly now.  But really,
Mr. Warren, I haven't the least idea in the world how she will take this thing.  I must go
in and be with her when she wakes, so that I can explain just what has happened."

"One moment," I said.  "You know my name."

"Of course I know your name," she answered.  "Could that house be up there on the hillside
for more than a year without my knowing who lived in it?"  With this she went indoors.

I could not help smiling when I thought of the young lady regretting that there was no man
in the house who might help me do something. What could anybody do in a case like this?  I
turned and went into my house.  I entered the various rooms on the lower floor, and saw no
signs of any particular damage, except that everything movable in each room was jumbled together
against the front wall.  But when I looked out of the back door I found that the porch there
was a good deal wrecked, which I had not noticed before.

I went up-stairs, and found everything very much as it was below. Nothing seemed to have been
injured except the chimney and the porches. I thanked my stars that I had used hard wood instead
of mortar for the ceilings of my rooms.

I was about to go into my bedroom, when I heard a woman scream, and of course I hurried to
the front.  There on the back porch of her house stood Mrs. Carson.  She was a woman of middle
age, and, as I glanced at her, I saw where her daughter got her good looks.  But the placidity
and cheerfulness of the younger face were entirely wanting in the mother.  Her eyes sparkled,
her cheeks were red, her mouth was partly opened, and it seemed to me that I could almost see
that her breath was hot.

"Is this your house?" she cried, the moment her eyes fell upon me. "And what is it doing here?"
I did not immediately answer, I looked at the angry woman, and behind her I saw, through the
open door, the daughter crossing the hallway.  It was plain that she had decided to let me
have it out with her mother without interference.  As briefly and as clearly as I could, I
explained what had happened.

"What is all that to me?" she screamed.  "It doesn't matter to me how your house got here.
There have been storms ever since the beginning of the world, and I never heard of any of them
taking a house into a person's back yard.  You ought not to have built your house where any
such thing could happen.  But all this is nothing to me.  I don't understand now how your house
did get here, and I don't want to understand it.  All I want is for you to take it away."

"I will do that, madam, just as soon as I can.  You may be very sure I will do that.  But--"

"Can you do it now?" she asked.  "Can you do it to-day?  I don't want a minute lost.  I have
not been outside to see what damage has been done, but the first thing to do is to take your
house away."

"I am going to the town now, madam, to summon assistance."

Mrs. Carson made no answer, but she turned and walked to the end of her porch.  There she suddenly
gave a scream which quickly brought her daughter from the house.  "Kitty!  Kitty!" cried her
mother.  "Do you know what he has done?  He has gone right over my round flower-garden. His
house is sitting on it this minute!"

"But he could not help it, mother," said Kitty.

"Help it!" exclaimed Mrs. Carson.  "I didn't expect him to help it. What I want--"  Suddenly
she stopped.  Her eyes flashed brighter, her mouth opened wider, and she became more and more
excited as she noticed the absence of the sheds, fences, or vegetable-beds which had found
themselves in the course of my all-destroying dwelling.

It was now well on in the morning, and some of the neighbors had become aware of the strange
disaster which had happened to me, although if they had heard the news from Mrs. Carson they
might have supposed that it was a disaster which had happened only to her.  As they gazed at
the two houses so closely jammed together, all of them wondered, some of them even laughed,
but not one offered a suggestion which afforded satisfaction to Mrs. Carson or myself.  The
general opinion was that, now my house was there, it would have to stay there, for there were
not enough horses in the State to pull it back up that mountainside.  To be sure, it might
possibly be drawn off sidewise.  But whether it was moved one way or the other, a lot of Mrs.
Carson's trees would have to be cut down to let it pass.

"Which shall never happen!" cried that good lady.  "If nothing else can be done, it must be
taken apart and hauled off in carts.  But no matter how it is managed, it must be moved, and
that immediately."  Miss Carson now prevailed upon her mother to go into the house, and I stayed
and talked to the men and a few women who had gathered outside.

When they had said all they had to say, and seen all there was to see, these people went home
to their breakfasts.  I entered my house, but not by the front door, for to do that I would
have been obliged to trespass upon Mrs. Carson's back porch.  I got my hat, and was about to
start for the town, when I heard my name called.  Turning into the hall, I saw Miss Carson,
who was standing at my front door.

"Mr. Warren," said she, "you haven't any way of getting breakfast, have you?"

"Oh, no," said I.  "My servants are up there in their cabin, and I suppose they are too much
scared to come down.  But I am going to town to see what can be done about my house, and will
get my breakfast there."

"It's a long way to go without anything to eat," she said, "and we can give you some breakfast.
But I want to ask you something.  I am in a good deal of perplexity.  Our two servants are
out at the front of the house, but they positively refuse to come in; they are afraid that
your house may begin sliding again and crush them all, so, I shall have to get breakfast. 
But what bothers me is trying to find our well.  I have been outside, and can see no signs of it."

"Where was your well?" I gasped.

"It ought to be somewhere near the back of your house," she said.  "May I go through your hall
and look out?"

"Of course you may," I cried, and I preceded her to my back door.

"Now, it seems to me," she said, after surveying the scene of desolation immediately before,
and looking from side to side toward objects which had remained untouched, "that your house
has passed directly over our well, and must have carried away the little shed and the pump
and everything above ground.  I should not wonder a bit," she continued slowly, "if it is under
your porch."

I jumped to the ground, for the steps were shattered, and began to search for the well, and
it was not long before I discovered its round dark opening, which was, as Miss Carson had imagined,
under one end of my porch.

"What can we do?" she asked.  "We can't have breakfast or get along at all without water."
It was a terribly depressing thing to me to think that I, or rather my house, had given these
people so much trouble. But I speedily, assured Miss Carson that if she could find a bucket
and a rope which I could lower into the well, I would provide her with water.

She went into her house to see what she could find, and I tore away the broken planks of the
porch, so that I could get to the well.  And then, when she came with a tin pail and a clothes-line,
I went to work to haul up water and carry it to her back door.

"I don't want mother to find out what has happened to the well," she said, "for she has enough
on her mind already."

Mrs. Carson was a woman with some good points in her character.  After a time she called to
me herself, and told me to come in to breakfast. But during the meal she talked very earnestly
to me about the amazing trespass I had committed, and about the means which should be taken
to repair the damages my house had done to her property.  I was as optimistic as I could be,
and the young lady spoke very cheerfully and hopefully about the affair, so that we were beginning
to get along somewhat pleasantly, when, suddenly, Mrs. Carson sprang to her feet. "Heavens
and earth!" she cried, "this house is moving!"

She was not mistaken.  I had felt beneath my feet a sudden sharp shock--not severe, but unmistakable.
I remembered that both houses stood upon slightly sloping ground.  My blood turned cold, my
heart stood still; even Miss Carson was pale.

When we had rushed out of doors to see what had happened, or what was going to happen, I soon
found that we had been needlessly frightened. Some of the broken timbers on which my house
had been partially resting had given way, and the front part of the building had slightly descended,
jarring as it did so the other house against which it rested.  I endeavored to prove to Mrs.
Carson that the result was encouraging rather than otherwise, for my house was now more firmly
settled than it had been.  But she did not value the opinion of a man who did not know enough
to put his house in a place where it would be likely to stay, and she could eat no more breakfast,
and was even afraid to stay under her own roof until experienced mechanics had been summoned
to look into the state of affairs.

I hurried away to the town, and it was not long before several carpenters and masons were on
the spot.  After a thorough examination, they assured Mrs. Carson that there was no danger,
that my house would do no farther damage to her premises, but, to make things certain, they
would bring some heavy beams and brace the front of my house against her cellar wall.  When
that should be done it would be impossible for it to move any farther.

"But I don't want it braced!" cried Mrs. Carson.  "I want it taken away.  I want it out of
my back yard!"

The master carpenter was a man of imagination and expedients.  "That is quite another thing,
ma'am," said he.  "We'll fix this gentleman's house so that you needn't be afraid of it, and
then, when the time comes to move it, there's several ways of doing that.  We might rig up
a powerful windlass at the top of the hill, and perhaps get a steam-engine to turn it, and
we could fasten cables to the house and haul her back to where she belongs."

"And can you take your oaths," cried Mrs. Carson, "that those ropes won't break, and when that
house gets half-way up the hill it won't come sliding down ten times faster than it did, and
crash into me and mine and everything I own on earth?  No, sir!  I'll have no house hauled
up a hill back of me!"

"Of course," said the carpenter, "it would be a great deal easier to move it on this ground,
which is almost level--"

"And cut down my trees to do it!  No, sir!"

"Well, then," said he, "there is no way to do but to take it apart and haul it off."

"Which would make an awful time at the back of my house while you were doing it!" exclaimed
Mrs. Carson.

I now put in a word.  "There's only one thing to do that I can see!" I exclaimed.  "I will
sell it to a match factory.  It is almost all wood, and it can be cut up in sections about
two inches thick, and then split into matches."

Kitty smiled.  "I should like to see them," she said, "taking away the little sticks in wheelbarrows!"

"There is no need of trifling on the subject," said Mrs. Carson.  "I have had a great deal
to bear, and I must bear it no longer than is necessary.  I have just found out that in order
to get water out of my own well, I must go to the back porch of a stranger.  Such things cannot
be endured.  If my son George were here, he would tell me what I ought to do.  I shall write
to him, and see what he advises.  I do not mind waiting a little bit, now that I know that
you can fix Mr. Warren's house so that it won't move any farther."

Thus the matter was left.  My house was braced that afternoon, and toward evening I started
to go to a hotel in the town to spend the night.

"No, sir!" said Mrs. Carson.  "Do you suppose that I am going to stay here all night with a
great empty house jammed up against me, and everybody knowing that it is empty?  It will be
the same as having thieves in my own house to have them in yours.  You have come down here
in your property, and you can stay in it and take care of it!"

"I don't object to that in the least," I said.  "My two women are here, and I can tell them
to attend to my meals.  I haven't any chimney, but I suppose they can make a fire some way
or other."

"No, sir!" said Mrs. Carson.  "I am not going to have any strange servants on my place.  I
have just been able to prevail upon my own women to go into the house, and I don't want any
more trouble.  I have had enough already!"

"But, my dear madam," said I, "you don't want me to go to the town, and you won't allow me
to have any cooking done here.  What am I to do?"

"Well," she said, "you can eat with us.  It may be two or three days before I can hear from
my son George, and in the meantime you can lodge in your own house and I will take you to board.
That is the best way I can see of managing the thing.  But I am very sure I am not going to
be left here alone in the dreadful predicament in which you have put me."

We had scarcely finished supper when Jack Brandiger came to see me.  He laughed a good deal
a about my sudden change of base, but thought, on the whole, my house had made a very successful
move.  It must be more pleasant in the valley than up on that windy hill.  Jack was very much
interested in everything, and when Mrs. Carson and her daughter appeared, as we were walking
about viewing the scene, I felt myself obliged to introduce him.

"I like those ladies," said he to me, afterwards.  "I think you have chosen very agreeable
neighbors."

"How do you know you like them?" said I.  "You had scarcely anything to say to Mrs. Carson."

"No, to be sure," said he.  "But I expect I should like her.  By the way, do you know how you
used to talk to me about coming and living somewhere near you?  How would you like me to take
one of your rooms now?  I might cheer you up."

"No," said I, firmly.  "That cannot be done.  As things are now, I have as much as I can do
to get along here by myself."

Mrs. Carson did not hear from her son for nearly a week, and then he wrote that he found it
almost impossible to give her any advice.  He thought it was a very queer state of affairs.
He had never heard of anything like it.  But he would try and arrange his business so that
he could come home in a week or two and look into matters.

As I was thus compelled to force myself upon the close neighborhood of Mrs. Carson and her
daughter,  I endeavored to make things as pleasant as possible.  I brought some of my men down
out of the vineyard, and set them to repairing fences, putting the garden in order, and doing
all that I could to remedy the doleful condition of things which I had unwillingly brought
into the back yard of this quiet family.  I rigged up a pump on my back porch by which the
water of the well could be conveniently obtained, and in every way endeavored to repair damages.

But Mrs. Carson never ceased to talk about the unparalleled disaster which had come upon her,
and she must have had a great deal of correspondence with her son George, because she gave
me frequent messages from him.  He could not come on to look into the state of affairs, but
he seemed to be giving it a great deal of thought and attention.

Spring weather had come again, and it was very pleasant to help the Carson ladies get their
flower-garden in order--at least, as much as was left of it, for my house was resting upon
some of the most important beds.  As I was obliged to give up all present idea of doing anything
in the way of getting my residence out of a place where it had no business to be, because Mrs.
Carson would not consent to any plan which had been suggested, I felt that I was offering some
little compensation in beautifying what seemed to be, at that time, my own grounds.

My labors in regard to vines, bushes, and all that sort of thing were generally carried on
under direction of Mrs. Carson or her daughter, and as the elderly lady was a very busy housewife,
the horticultural work was generally left to Miss Kitty and me.

I liked Miss Kitty.  She was a cheerful, whole-souled person, and I sometimes thought that
she was not so unwilling to have me for a neighbor as the rest of the family seemed to be;
for if I were to judge the disposition of her brother George from what her mother told me about
his letters, both he and Mrs. Carson must be making a great many plans to get me off the premises.

Nearly a month had now passed since my house and I made that remarkable morning call upon Mrs.
Carson.  I was becoming accustomed to my present mode of living, and, so far as I was concerned,
it satisfied me very well.  I certainly lived a great deal better than when I was depending
upon my old negro cook.  Miss Kitty seemed to be satisfied with things as they were, and so,
in some respects, did her mother.  But the latter never ceased to give me extracts from some
of her son George's letters, and this was always annoying and worrying to me.  Evidently he
was not pleased with me as such a close neighbor to his mother, and it was astonishing how
many expedients he proposed in order to rid her of my undesirable proximity.

"My son George," said Mrs. Carson, one morning, "has been writing to me about jack-screws.
He says that the greatest improvements have been made in jack-screws."

"What do you do with them, mother?" asked Miss Kitty.

"You lift houses with them," said she.  "He says that in large cities they lift whole blocks
of houses with them and build stories underneath.  He thinks that we can get rid of our trouble
here if we use jack-screws."

"But how does he propose to use them?" I asked.

"Oh, he has a good many plans," answered Mrs. Carson.  "He said that he should not wonder if
jack-screws could be made large enough to lift your house entirely over mine and set it out
in the road, where it could be carried away without interfering with anything, except, of course,
vehicles which might be coming along.  But he has another plan--that is, to lift my house up
and carry it out into the field on the other side of the road, and then your house might be
carried along right over the cellar until it got to the road.  In that way, he says, the bushes
and trees would not have to be interfered with."

"I think brother George is cracked!" said Kitty.

All this sort of thing worried me very much.  My mind was eminently disposed toward peace and
tranquillity, but who could be peaceful and tranquil with a prospective jack-screw under the
very base of his comfort and happiness?  In fact, my house had never been such a happy home
as it was at that time.  The fact of its unwarranted position upon other people's grounds had
ceased to trouble me.

But the coming son George, with his jack-screws, did trouble me very much, and that afternoon
I deliberately went into Mrs. Carson's house to look for Kitty.  I knew her mother was not
at home, for I had seen her go out.  When Kitty appeared I asked her to come out on her back
porch.  "Have you thought of any new plan of moving it?" she said, with a smile, as we sat down.

"No," said I, earnestly.  "I have not, and I don't want to think of any plan of moving it.
I am tired of seeing it here, I am tired of thinking about moving it away, and I am tired of
hearing people talk about moving it.  I have not any right to be here, and I am never allowed
to forget it.  What I want to do is to go entirely away, and leave everything behind me--except
one thing."

"And what is that?" asked Kitty.

"You," I answered.

She turned a little pale and did not reply.

"You understand me, Kitty," I said.  "There is nothing in the world that I care for but you.
What have you to say to me?"

Then came back to her her little smile.  "I think it would be very foolish for us to go away,"
she said.

It was about a quarter of an hour after this when Kitty proposed that we should go out to the
front of the house; it would look queer if any of the servants should come by and see us sitting
together like that. I had forgotten that there were other people in the world, but I went with her.

We were standing on the front porch, close to each other, and I think we were holding each
other's hands, when Mrs. Carson came back.  As she approached she looked at us inquiringly,
plainly wishing to know why we were standing side by side before her door as if we had some
special object in so doing.

"Well?" said she, as she came up the steps.  Of course it was right that I should speak, and,
in as few words as possible, I told her what Kitty and I had been saying to each other.  I
never saw Kitty's mother look so cheerful and so handsome as when she came forward and kissed
her daughter and shook hands with me.  She seemed so perfectly satisfied that it amazed me.
After a little Kitty left us, and then Mrs. Carson asked me to sit by her on a rustic bench.

"Now," said she, "this will straighten out things in the very best way. When you are married,
you and Kitty can live in the back building,--for, of course, your house will now be the same
thing as a back building,--and you can have the second floor.  We won't have any separate tables,
because it will be a great deal nicer for you and Kitty to live with me, and it will simply
be your paying board for two persons instead of one.  And you know you can manage your vineyard
just as well from the bottom of the hill as from the top.  The lower rooms of what used to
be your house can be made very pleasant and comfortable for all of us.  I have been thinking
about the room on the right that you had planned for a parlor, and it will make a lovely sitting-room
for us, which is a thing we have never had, and the room on the other side is just what will
suit beautifully for a guest-chamber.  The two houses together, with the roof of my back porch
properly joined to the front of your house, will make a beautiful and spacious dwelling.  It
was fortunate, too, that you painted your house a light yellow.  I have often looked at the
two together, and thought what a good thing it was that one was not one color and the other
another.  As to the pump, it will be very easy now to put a pipe from what used to be your
back porch to our kitchen, so that we can get water without being obliged to carry it.  Between
us we can make all sorts of improvements, and some time I will tell you of a good many that
I have thought of.

"What used to be your house," she continued, "can be jack-screwed up a little bit and a good
foundation put under it.  I have inquired about that.  Of course it would not have been proper
to let you know that I was satisfied with the state of things, but I was satisfied, and there
is no use of denying it.  As soon as I got over my first scare after that house came down the
hill, and had seen how everything might be arranged to suit all parties, I said to myself,
`What the Lord has joined together, let not man put asunder,' and so, according to my belief,
the strongest kind of jack-screws could not put these two houses asunder, any more than they
could put you and Kitty asunder, now that you have agreed to take each other for each other's own."

Jack Brandiger came to call that evening, and when he had heard what had happened he whistled
a good deal.  "You are a funny kind of a fellow," said he.  "You go courting like a snail,
with your house on your back!"

I think my friend was a little discomfited.  "Don't be discouraged, Jack," said I. "You will
get a good wife some of these days--that is, if you don't try to slide uphill to find her!"

OUR ARCHERY CLUB

When an archery club was formed in our village, I was among the first to join it.  But I should
not, on this account, claim any extraordinary enthusiasm on the subject of archery, for nearly
all the ladies and gentlemen of the place were also among the first to join.

Few of us, I think, had a correct idea of the popularity of archery in our midst until the
subject of a club was broached.  Then we all perceived what a strong interest we felt in the
study and use of the bow and arrow.  The club was formed immediately, and our thirty members
began to discuss the relative merits of lancewood, yew, and greenheart bows, and to survey
yards and lawns for suitable spots for setting up targets for home practice.

Our weekly meetings, at which we came together to show in friendly contest how much our home
practice had taught us, were held upon the village green, or rather upon what had been intended
to be the village green.  This pretty piece of ground, partly in smooth lawn and partly shaded
by fine trees, was the property of a gentleman of the place, who had presented it, under certain
conditions, to the township.  But as the township had never fulfilled any of the conditions,
and had done nothing toward the improvement of the spot, further than to make it a grazing-place
for local cows and goats, the owner had withdrawn his gift, shut out the cows and goats by
a picket fence, and, having locked the gate, had hung up the key in his barn.  When our club
was formed, the green, as it was still called, was offered to us for our meetings, and, with
proper gratitude, we elected its owner to be our president.

This gentleman was eminently qualified for the presidency of an archery club.  In the first
place, he did not shoot: this gave him time and opportunity to attend to the shooting of others.
He was a tall and pleasant man, a little elderly.  This "elderliness," if I may so put it,
seemed, in his case, to resemble some mild disorder, like a gentle rheumatism, which, while
it prevented him from indulging in all the wild hilarities of youth, gave him, in compensation,
a position, as one entitled to a certain consideration, which was very agreeable to him. His
little disease was chronic, it is true, and it was growing upon him; but it was, so far, a
pleasant ailment.

And so, with as much interest in bows and arrows and targets and successful shots as any of
us, he never fitted an arrow to a string, nor drew a bow.  But he attended every meeting, settling
disputed points (for he studied all the books on archery), encouraging the disheartened, holding
back the eager ones who would run to the targets as soon as they had shot, regardless of the
fact that others were still shooting and that the human body is not arrow-proof, and shedding
about him that general aid and comfort which emanates from a good fellow, no matter what he
may say or do.

There were persons--outsiders--who said that archery clubs always selected ladies for their
presiding officers, but we did not care to be too much bound down and trammelled by customs
and traditions.  Another club might not have among its members such a genial elderly gentleman
who owned a village green.

I soon found myself greatly interested in archery, especially when I succeeded in planting
an arrow somewhere within the periphery of the target, but I never became such an enthusiast
in bow-shooting as my friend Pepton.

If Pepton could have arranged matters to suit himself, he would have been born an archer. 
But as this did not happen to have been the case, he employed every means in his power to rectify
what he considered this serious error in his construction.  He gave his whole soul, and the
greater part of his spare time, to archery, and as he was a young man of energy, this helped
him along wonderfully.

His equipments were perfect.  No one could excel him in, this respect. His bow was snakewood,
backed with hickory.  He carefully rubbed it down every evening with oil and beeswax, and it
took its repose in a green baize bag.  His arrows were Philip Highfield's best, his strings
the finest Flanders hemp.  He had shooting-gloves, and little leather tips that could be screwed
fast on the ends of what he called his string-fingers.  He had a quiver and a belt, and when
equipped for the weekly meetings, he carried a fancy-colored wiping-tassel, and a little ebony
grease-pot hanging from his belt.  He wore, when shooting, a polished arm-guard or bracer,
and if he had heard of anything else that an archer should have, he straightway would have
procured it.

Pepton was a single man, and he lived with two good old maiden ladies, who took as much care
of him as if they had been his mothers.  And he was such a good, kind fellow that he deserved
all the attention they gave him.  They felt a great interest in his archery pursuits, and shared
his anxious solicitude in the selection of a suitable place to hang his bow.

"You see," said he, "a fine bow like this, when not in use, should always be in a perfectly
dry place."

"And when in use, too," said Miss Martha, "for I am sure that you oughtn't to be standing and
shooting in any damp spot.  There's no surer way of gettin' chilled."

To which sentiment Miss Maria agreed, and suggested wearing rubber shoes, or having a board
to stand on, when the club met after a rain.

Pepton first hung his bow in the hall, but after he had arranged it symmetrically upon two
long nails (bound with green worsted, lest they should scratch the bow through its woollen
cover), he reflected that the front door would frequently be open, and that damp drafts must
often go through the hall.  He was sorry to give up this place for his bow, for it was convenient
and appropriate, and for an instant he thought that it might remain, if the front door could
be kept shut, and visitors admitted through a little side door which the family generally used,
and which was almost as convenient as the other--except, indeed, on wash-days, when a wet sheet
or some article of wearing apparel was apt to be hung in front of it.  But although wash-day
occurred but once a week, and although it was comparatively easy, after a little practice,
to bob under a high-propped sheet, Pepton's heart was too kind to allow his mind to dwell upon
this plan.  So he drew the nails from the wall of the hall, and put them up in various places
about the house.  His own room had to be aired a great deal in all weathers, and so that would
not do at all.  The wall above the kitchen fireplace would be a good location, for the chimney
was nearly always warm.  But Pepton could not bring himself to keep his bow in the kitchen.
There would be nothing esthetic about such a disposition of it, and, besides, the girl might
be tempted to string and bend it.  The old ladies really did not want it in the parlor, for
its length and its green baize cover would make it an encroaching and unbecoming neighbor to
the little engravings and the big samplers, the picture-frames of acorns and pine-cones, the
fancifully patterned ornaments of clean wheat straw, and all the quaint adornments which had
hung upon those walls for so many years.  But they did not say so.  If it had been necessary,
to make room for the bow, they would have taken down the pencilled profiles of their grandfather,
their grandmother, and their father when a little boy, which hung in a row over the mantelpiece.

However, Pepton did not ask this sacrifice.  In the summer evenings the parlor windows must
be open.  The dining-room was really very little used in the evening, except when Miss Maria
had stockings to darn, and then she always sat in that apartment, and of course she had the
windows open.  But Miss Maria was very willing to bring her work into the parlor,--it was foolish,
anyway, to have a feeling about darning stockings before chance company,--and then the dining-room
could be kept shut up after tea.  So into the wall of that neat little room Pepton drove his
worsted-covered nails, and on them carefully laid his bow.  All the next day Miss Martha and
Miss Maria went about the house, covering the nail-holes he had made with bits of wallpaper,
carefully snipped out to fit the patterns, and pasted on so neatly that no one would have suspected
they were there.

One afternoon, as I was passing the old ladies' house, saw, or thought I saw, two men carrying
in a coffin.  I was struck with alarm.

"What!" I thought.  "Can either of those good women--  Or can Pepton--"

Without a moment's hesitation, I rushed in behind the men.  There, at the foot of the stairs,
directing them, stood Pepton.  Then it was not he!  I seized him sympathetically by the hand.

"Which?" I faltered.  "Which?  Who is that coffin for?"

"Coffin!" cried Pepton.  "Why, my dear fellow, that is not a coffin. That is my ascham."

"Ascham?" I exclaimed.  "What is that?"

"Come and look at it," he said, when the men had set it on end against the wall.  "It is an
upright closet or receptacle for an archer's armament.  Here is a place to stand the bow, here
are supports for the arrows and quivers, here are shelves and hooks, on which to lay or hang
everything the merry man can need.  You see, moreover, that it is lined with green plush, that
the door fits tightly, so that it can stand anywhere, and there need be no fear of drafts or
dampness affecting my bow.  Isn't it a perfect thing?  You ought to get one."

I admitted the perfection, but agreed no further.  I had not the income of my good Pepton.

Pepton was, indeed, most wonderfully well equipped; and yet, little did those dear old ladies
think, when they carefully dusted and reverentially gazed at the bunches of arrows, the arm-bracers,
the gloves, the grease-pots, and all the rest of the paraphernalia of archery, as it hung around
Pepton's room, or when they afterwards allowed a particular friend to peep at it, all arranged
so orderly within the ascham, or when they looked with sympathetic, loving admiration on the
beautiful polished bow, when it was taken out of its bag--little did they think, I say, that
Pepton was the very poorest shot in the club.  In all the surface of the much-perforated targets
of the club, there was scarcely a hole that he could put his hand upon his heart and say he made.

Indeed, I think it was the truth that Pepton was born not to be an archer.  There were young
fellows in the club who shot with bows that cost no more than Pepton's tassels, but who could
stand up and whang arrows into the targets all the afternoon, if they could get a chance; and
there were ladies who made hits five times out of six; and there were also all the grades of
archers common to any club.  But there was no one but himself in Pepton's grade.  He stood
alone, and it was never any trouble to add up his score.

Yet he was not discouraged.  He practised every day except Sundays, and indeed he was the only
person in the club who practised at night.  When he told me about this, I was a little surprised.

"Why, it's easy enough," said he.  "You see, I hung a lantern, with a reflector, before the
target, just a little to one side.  It lighted up the target beautifully, and I believe there
was a better chance of hitting it than by daylight, for the only thing you could see was the
target, and so your attention was not distracted.  To be sure," he said, in answer to a question,
"it was a good deal of trouble to find the arrows, but that I always have.  When I get so expert
that I can put all the arrows into the target, there will be no trouble of the kind, night
or day.  However," he continued, "I don't practise any more by night.  The other evening I
sent an arrow slam-bang into the lantern, and broke it all to flinders.  Borrowed lantern,
too. Besides, I found it made Miss Martha very nervous to have me shooting about the house
after dark.  She had a friend who had a little boy who was hit in the leg by an arrow from
a bow, which, she says, accidentally went off in the night, of its own accord.  She is certainly
a little mixed in her mind in regard to this matter, but I wish to respect her feelings, and
so shall not use another lantern."

As I have said, there were many good archers among the ladies of our club.  Some of them, after
we had been organized for a month or two, made scores that few of the gentlemen could excel.
But the lady who attracted the greatest attention when she shot was Miss Rosa.

When this very pretty young lady stood up before the ladies' target--her left side well advanced,
her bow firmly held out in her strong left arm, which never quivered, her head a little bent
to the right, her arrow drawn back by three well-gloved fingers to the tip of her little ear,
her dark eyes steadily fixed upon the gold, and her dress, well fitted over her fine and vigorous
figure, falling in graceful folds about her feet, we all stopped shooting to look at her.

"There is something statuesque about her," said Pepton, who ardently admired her, "and yet
there isn't.  A statue could never equal her unless we knew there was a probability of movement
in it.  And the only statues which have that are the Jarley wax-works, which she does not resemble
in the least.  There is only one thing that that girl needs to make her a perfect archer, and
that is to be able to aim better."

This was true.  Miss Rosa did need to aim better.  Her arrows had a curious habit of going
on all sides of the target, and it was very seldom that one chanced to stick into it.  For
if she did make a hit, we all knew it was chance and that there was no probability of her doing
it again.  Once she put an arrow right into the centre of the gold,--one of the finest shots
ever made on the ground,--but she didn't hit the target again for two weeks.  She was almost
as bad a shot as Pepton, and that is saying a good deal.

One evening I was sitting with Pepton on the little front porch of the old ladies' house, where
we were taking our after-dinner smoke while Miss Martha and Miss Maria were washing, with their
own white hands, the china and glass in which they took so much pride.  I often used to go
over and spend an hour with Pepton.  He liked to have some one to whom he could talk on the
subjects which filled his soul, and I liked to hear him talk.

"I tell you," said he, as he leaned back in his chair, with his feet carefully disposed on
the railing so that they would not injure Miss Maria's Madeira-vine, "I tell you, sir, that
there are two things I crave with all my power of craving--two goals I fain would reach, two
diadems I would wear upon my brow.  One of these is to kill an eagle--or some large bird--with
a shaft from my good bow.  I would then have it stuffed and mounted, with the very arrow that
killed it still sticking in its breast.  This trophy of my skill I would have fastened against
the wall of my room or my hall, and I would feel proud to think that my grandchildren could
point to that bird--which I would carefully bequeath to my descendants--and say, `My grand'ther
shot that bird, and with that very arrow.'  Would it not stir your pulses if you could do a
thing like that?"

"I should have to stir them up a good deal before I could do it," I replied.  "It would be
a hard thing to shoot an eagle with an arrow. If you want a stuffed bird to bequeath, you'd
better use a rifle."

"A rifle!" exclaimed Pepton.  "There would be no glory in that.  There are lots of birds shot
with rifles--eagles, hawks, wild geese, tomtits--"

"Oh, no!" I interrupted, "not tomtits."

"Well, perhaps they are too little for a rifle," said he. "But what I mean to say is that I
wouldn't care at all for an eagle I had shot with a rifle.  You couldn't show the ball that
killed him.  If it were put in properly, it would be inside, where it couldn't be seen.  No,
sir. It is ever so much more honorable, and far more difficult, too, to hit an eagle than to
hit a target."

"That is very true," I answered, "especially in these days, when there are so few eagles and
so many targets.  But what is your other diadem?"

"That," said Pepton, "is to see Miss Rosa wear the badge."

"Indeed!" said I.  And from that moment I began to understand Pepton's hopes in regard to the
grandmother of those children who should point to the eagle.

"Yes, sir," he continued, "I should be truly happy to see her win the badge.  And she ought
to win it.  No one shoots more correctly, and with a better understanding of all the rules,
than she does.  There must truly be something the matter with her aiming.  I've half a mind
to coach her a little."

I turned aside to see who was coming down the road.  I would not have had him know I smiled.

The most objectionable person in our club was O. J.  Hollingsworth.  He was a good enough fellow
in himself, but it was as an archer that we objected to him.

There was, so far as I know, scarcely a rule of archery that he did not habitually violate.
Our president and nearly all of us remonstrated with him, and Pepton even went to see him on
the subject, but it was all to no purpose.  With a quiet disregard of other people's ideas
about bow-shooting and other people's opinions about himself, he persevered in a style of shooting
which appeared absolutely absurd to any one who knew anything of the rules and methods of archery.

I used to like to look at him when his turn came around to shoot.  He was not such a pleasing
object of vision as Miss Rosa, but his style was so entirely novel to me that it was interesting.
He held the bow horizontally, instead of perpendicularly, like other archers, and he held it
well down--about opposite his waistband.  He did not draw his arrow back to his ear, but he
drew it back to the lower button of his vest.  Instead of standing upright, with his left side
to the target, he faced it full, and leaned forward over his arrow, in an attitude which reminded
me of a Roman soldier about to fall upon his sword. When he had seized the nock of his arrow
between his finger and thumb, he languidly glanced at the target, raised his bow a little,
and let fly.  The provoking thing about it was that he nearly always hit.  If he had only known
how to stand, and hold his bow, and draw back his arrow, he would have been a very good archer.
But, as it was, we could not help laughing at him, although our president always discountenanced
anything of the kind.

Our champion was a tall man, very cool and steady, who went to work at archery exactly as if
he were paid a salary, and intended to earn his money honestly.  He did the best he could in
every way.  He generally shot with one of the bows owned by the club, but if any one on the
ground had a better one, he would borrow it.  He used to shoot sometimes with Pepton's bow,
which he declared to be a most capital one.  But as Pepton was always very nervous when he
saw his bow in the hands of another than himself, the champion soon ceased to borrow it.

There were two badges, one of green silk and gold for the ladies, and one of green and red
for the gentlemen, and these were shot for at each weekly meeting.  With the exception of a
few times when the club was first formed, the champion had always worn the gentlemen's badge.
Many of us tried hard to win it from him, but we never could succeed; he shot too well.

On the morning of one of our meeting days, the champion told me, as I was going to the city
with him, that he would not be able to return at his usual hour that afternoon.  He would be
very busy, and would have to wait for the six-fifteen train, which would bring him home too
late for the archery meeting.  So he gave me the badge, asking me to hand it to the president,
that he might bestow it on the successful competitor that afternoon.

We were all rather glad that the champion was obliged to be absent. Here was a chance for some
one of us to win the badge.  It was not, indeed, an opportunity for us to win a great deal
of honor, for if the champion were to be there we should have no chance at all.  But we were
satisfied with this much, having no reason--in the present, at least--to expect anything more.

So we went to the targets with a new zeal, and most of us shot better than we had ever shot
before.  In this number was O. J. Hollingsworth. He excelled himself, and, what was worse,
he excelled all the rest of us.  He actually made a score of eighty-five in twenty-four shots,
which at that time was remarkably good shooting, for our club.  This was dreadful!  To have
a fellow who didn't know how to shoot beat us all was too bad.  If any visitor who knew anything
at all of archery should see that the member who wore the champion's badge was a man who held
his bow as if he had the stomach-ache, it would ruin our character as a club.  It was not to
be borne.

Pepton in particular felt greatly outraged.  We had met very promptly that afternoon, and had
finished our regular shooting much earlier than usual; and now a knot of us were gathered together,
talking over this unfortunate occurrence.

"I don't intend to stand it," Pepton suddenly exclaimed.  "I feel it as a personal disgrace.
I'm going to have the champion here before dark. By the rules, he has a right to shoot until
the president declares it is too late.  Some of you fellows stay here, and I'll bring him."

And away he ran, first giving me charge of his precious bow.  There was no need of his asking
us to stay.  We were bound to see the fun out, and to fill up the time our president offered
a special prize of a handsome bouquet from his gardens, to be shot for by the ladies.

Pepton ran to the railroad station, and telegraphed to the champion. This was his message:

"You are absolutely needed here.  If possible, take the five-thirty train for Ackford.  I will
drive over for you.  Answer."

There was no train before the six-fifteen by which the champion could come directly to our
village; but Ackford, a small town about three miles distant, was on another railroad, on which
there were frequent afternoon trains.

The champion answered:

"All right.  Meet me."

Then Pepton rushed to our livery stable, hired a horse and buggy, and drove to Ackford.

A little after half-past six, when several of us were beginning to think that Pepton had failed
in his plans, he drove rapidly into the grounds, making a very short turn at the gate, and
pulled up his panting horse just in time to avoid running over three ladies, who were seated
on the grass.  The champion was by his side!

The latter lost no time in talking or salutations.  He knew what he had been brought there
to do, and he immediately set about trying to do it. He took Pepton's bow, which the latter
urged upon him.  He stood up, straight and firm on the line, at thirty-five yards from the
gentlemen's target; he carefully selected his arrows, examining the feathers and wiping away
any bit of soil that might be adhering to the points after some one had shot them into the
turf; with vigorous arm he drew each arrow to its head; he fixed his eyes and his whole mind
on the centre of the target; he shot his twenty-four arrows, handed to him, one by one, by
Pepton, and he made a score of ninety-one.

The whole club had been scoring the shots, as they were made, and when the last arrow plumped
into the red ring, a cheer arose from every member excepting three: the champion, the president,
and O. J. Hollingsworth.  But Pepton cheered loudly enough to make up these deficiencies.

"What in the mischief did they cheer him for?" asked Hollingsworth of me.  "They didn't cheer
me when I beat everybody on the grounds an hour ago.  And it's no new thing for him to win
the badge; he does it every time."

"Well," said I, frankly, "I think the club, AS a club, objects to your wearing the badge, because
you don't know how to shoot."

"Don't know how to shoot!" he cried.  "Why, I can hit the target better than any of you.  Isn't
that what you try to do when you shoot?"

"Yes," said I, "of course that is what we try to do.  But we try to do it in the proper way."

"Proper grandmother!" he exclaimed.  "It doesn't seem to help you much. The best thing you
fellows can do is to learn to shoot my way, and then perhaps you may be able to hit oftener."

When the champion had finished shooting he went home to his dinner, but many of us stood about,
talking over our great escape.

"I feel as if I had done that myself," said Pepton.  "I am almost as proud as if I had shot--well,
not an eagle, but a soaring lark."

"Why, that ought to make you prouder than the other," said I, "for a lark, especially when
it's soaring, must be a good deal harder to hit than an eagle."

"That's so," said Pepton, reflectively.  "But I'll stick to the lark. I'm proud."

During the next month our style of archery improved very much, so much, indeed, that we increased
our distance, for gentlemen, to forty yards, and that for ladies to thirty, and also had serious
thoughts of challenging the Ackford club to a match.  But as this was generally understood
to be a crack club, we finally determined to defer our challenge until the next season.

When I say we improved, I do not mean all of us.  I do not mean Miss Rosa.  Although her attitudes
were as fine as ever, and every motion as true to rule as ever, she seldom made a hit.  Pepton
actually did try to teach her how to aim, but the various methods of pointing the arrow which
he suggested resulted in such wild shooting that the boys who picked up the arrows never dared
to stick the points of their noses beyond their boarded barricade during Miss Rosa's turns
at the target. But she was not discouraged, and Pepton often assured her that if she would
keep up a good heart, and practise regularly, she would get the badge yet.  As a rule, Pepton
was so honest and truthful that a little statement of this kind, especially under the circumstances,
might be forgiven him.

One day Pepton came to me and announced that he had made a discovery.

"It's about archery," he said, "and I don't mind telling you, because I know you will not go
about telling everybody else, and also because I want to see you succeed as an archer."

 "I am very much obliged," I said, "and what is the discovery?"

"It's this," he answered.  "When you draw your bow, bring the nock of your arrow"--he was always
very particular about technical terms--"well up to your ear.  Having done that, don't bother
any more about your right hand.  It has nothing to do with the correct pointing of your arrow,
for it must be kept close to your right ear, just as if it were screwed there.  Then with your
left hand bring around the bow so that your fist--with the arrow-head, which is resting on
top of it--shall point, as nearly as you can make it, directly at the centre of the target.
Then let fly, and ten to one you'll make a hit.  Now, what do you think of that for a discovery?
I've thoroughly tested the plan, and it works splendidly."

"I think," said I, "that you have discovered the way in which good archers shoot.  You have
stated the correct method of managing a bow and arrow."

"Then you don't think it's an original method with me?"

"Certainly not," I answered.

"But it's the correct way?"

"There's no doubt of that," said I.

"Well," said Pepton, "then I shall make it my way."

He did so, and the consequence was that one day, when the champion happened to be away, Pepton
won the badge.  When the result was announced, we were all surprised, but none so much so as
Pepton himself.  He had been steadily improving since he had adopted a good style of shooting,
but he had had no idea that he would that day be able to win the badge.

When our president pinned the emblem of success upon the lapel of his coat, Pepton turned pale,
and then he flushed.  He thanked the president, and was about to thank the ladies and gentlemen;
but probably recollecting that we had had nothing to do with it,--unless, indeed, we had shot
badly on his behalf,--he refrained.  He said little, but I could see that he was very proud
and very happy.  There was but one drawback to his triumph:

Miss Rosa was not there.  She was a very regular attendant, but for some reason she was absent
on this momentous afternoon.  I did not say anything to him on the subject, but I knew he felt
this absence deeply.

But this cloud could not wholly overshadow his happiness.  He walked home alone, his face beaming,
his eyes sparkling, and his good bow under his arm.

That evening I called on him, for I thought that when he had cooled down a little he would
like to talk over the affair.  But he was not in.  Miss Maria said that he had gone out as
soon as he had finished his dinner, which he had hurried through in a way which would certainly
injure his digestion if he kept up the practice; and dinner was late, too, for they waited
for him, and the archery meeting lasted a long time today; and it really was not right for
him to stay out after the dew began to fall with only ordinary shoes on, for what's the good
of knowing how to shoot a bow and arrow, if you're laid up in your bed with rheumatism or disease
of the lungs?  Good old lady!  She would have kept Pepton in a green baize bag, had such a
thing been possible.

The next morning, full two hours before church-time, Pepton called on me.  His face was still
beaming.  I could not help smiling.

"Your happiness lasts well," I said.

"Lasts!" he exclaimed.  "Why shouldn't it last!"

"There's no reason why it should not--at least, for a week," I said, "and even longer, if you
repeat your success."

I did not feel so much like congratulating Pepton as I had on the previous evening.  I thought
he was making too much of his badge-winning.

"Look here!" said Pepton, seating himself, and drawing his chair close to me, "you are shooting
wild--very wild indeed.  You don't even see the target.  Let me tell you something.  Last evening
I went to see Miss Rosa.  She was delighted at my success.  I had not expected this. I thought
she would be pleased, but not to such a degree.  Her congratulations were so warm that they
set me on fire."

"They must have been very warm indeed," I remarked.

"`Miss Rosa,' said I," continued Pepton, without regarding my interruption, "`it has been my
fondest hope to see you wear the badge.' `But I never could get it, you know,' she said.  `You
have got it,' I exclaimed.  `Take this.  I won it for you.  Make me happy by wearing it.' 
`I can't do that,' she said.  `That is a gentleman's badge.' `Take it,' I cried, `gentleman
and all!'

 "I can't tell you all that happened after that," continued
Pepton.  "You know, it wouldn't do.  It is enough to say that she wears
the badge.  And we are both her own--the badge and I!"

Now I congratulated him in good earnest.  There was a reason for it.

"I don't owe a snap now for shooting an eagle," said Pepton, springing to his feet and striding
up and down the floor.  "Let 'em all fly free for me.  I have made the most glorious shot that
man could make.  I have hit the gold--hit it fair in the very centre!  And what's more, I've
knocked it clean out of the target!  Nobody else can ever make such a shot.  The rest of you
fellows will have to be content to hit the red, the blue, the black, or the white.  The gold
is mine!"

I called on the old ladies, some time after this, and found them alone. They were generally
alone in the evenings now.  We talked about Pepton's engagement, and I found them resigned.
They were sorry to lose him, but they wanted him to be happy.

"We have always known," said Miss Martha, with a little sigh, "that we must die, and that he
must get married.  But we don't intend to repine. These things will come to people."  And her
little sigh was followed by a smile, still smaller.