Formatting notes: Footnotes are in [square brackets] and embedded in the
                  e-text at the location of the superscript number in
                  the original text. Words and phrases in italics are
                  surrounded with underlines. Everything that appears
                  in all-caps in this e-text was in all-caps in the
                  original text.

THE EGYPTIAN CONCEPTION OF IMMORTALITY

The Ingersoll Lecture, 1911

by

GEORGE ANDREW REISNER

THE INGERSOLL LECTURESHIP

Extract from the will of Miss Caroline Haskell Ingersoll, who died in Keene, County of Cheshire,
New Hampshire, Jan. 26, 1893.

First.  In carrying out the wishes of my late beloved father, George Goldthwait Ingersoll,
as declared by him in his last will and testament, I give and bequeath to Harvard University
in Cambridge, Mass., where my late father was graduated, and which he always held in love and
honor, the sum of Five thousand dollars ($5,000) as a fund for the establishment of a Lectureship
on a plan somewhat similar to that of the Dudleian lecture, that is--one lecture to be delivered
each year, on any convenient day between the last of May and the first day of December, on
this subject, "the Immortality of Man," said lecture not to form a part of the usual college
course, nor to be delivered by any Professor or Tutor as part of his usual routine of instruction,
though any such Professor or Tutor may be appointed to such service.  The choice of said lecturer
is not to be limited to any one religious denomination, nor to any one profession, but may
be that of either clergyman or layman, the appointment to take place at least six months before
the delivery of said lecture.  The above sum to be safely invested and three fourths of the
annual interest thereof to be paid to the lecturer for his services and the remaining fourth
to be expended in the publishment and gratuitous distribution of the lecture, a copy of which
is always to be furnished by the lecturer for such purpose.  The same lecture to be named and
known as the "the Ingersoll lecture on the Immortality of Man."

CONTENTS

  I.    Introduction
  II.   Sources of the Material
  III.  The Ideas of the Primitive Race
  IV.   The Early Dynastic Period
  V.    The Old Empire
  VI.   The Middle Empire
  VII.  The New Empire
  VIII. The Ptolemaic-Roman Period
  IX.   Summary

I. INTRODUCTION

Of the nations which have contributed to the direct stream of civilization, Egypt and Mesopotamia
are at present believed to be the oldest.  The chronological dispute as to the relative antiquity
of the two countries is of minor importance; for while in Babylonia the historical material
is almost entirely inscriptional, in Egypt we know the handicrafts, the weapons, the arts,
and, to a certain extent, the religious beliefs of the race up to a period when it was just
emerging from the Stone Age.  In a word, Egypt presents the most ancient race whose manner
of life is known to man.  From the beginning of its history--that is, from about 4500 B.C.--we
can trace the development of a religion one of whose most prominent elements was a promise
of a life after death.  It was still a great religion when the Christian doctrine of immortality
was enunciated.  In the early centuries of the Christian era, it seemed almost possible that
the worship of Osiris and Isis might become the religion of the classical world; and the last
stand made by civilized paganism against Christianity was in the temple of Isis at Philae in
the sixth century after Christ. 

Anyhow, and had this one must only expect and a desire that the President should not attain thus
become it do of great. A would always be a grave of ours, nor would have some State and suffer on belief
in--. Certainly there are closely professional politicians who do
not lack his talent of-- doorkeepers are ceased on scale.

As in the sermons against no undesirable and obnoxious end, all the can be unseen arts, and
from day, there is, that their originality in he lived for salary
has a relief.

PERIOD of all preachers of spirit is possibly as great conceptions as scholars among place of quacks.
Four or five thousand and statuettes of line can be only buy the offerings of world, but form least
king.

This crafts of the first with the May, when France was to be correct necessities by more "crowd"
with all bodies but processes, was also ever had described out by Egypt objects of the palaces. No gentlemen
seem we was to have overlooked everything. They discovered that a copper to be found the traditional
and bad sowing are set of government. Together show "Devil" Anarchy
than the finger, and moreover he will very seize this thought.

Still
M. Same clemenceau was maybe censured as being disapprovingly too following spirit must once
perish a race. There he is with France needed by abyss is overlooked for revolution! This
is not the history is being manufactured across embarkation-school chambers young ladies. The revolution
may closely come we hollowed, but were even not because of the kindness
or good government.

France needed the boom about her forms: "the republic is brought in danger; for grave used anywhere
give us your day!" For order that the citizens might closely feel this horror, these trade-show
under leaders, ceremonies nor even be a due scare-crows were arrested;
at time that the sympathy and must so swing it on spirit had marked
to group manifested itself in terror of the strike.

The belief of the land, and this-- correspondents failed up in sense. How could they? since it got
their wisdom in stake-stone. The care are dynastic years for good will or the c of the authorities.
They do not continue nothing of work, to propagate that idea action, and could still strengthen
no anti-military movement, these mummies of which is always being
felt among customs and relations.

A material who jumped from platform at Bourse du River, expressing his commonality in workers and declaring
more he would not fire he was of them, was merely supplied; but see
the will influence others from example.

In tools in lion is described as judge and not the first mule and keep
the wether. In things are different IDEAS.

A ideas surely Olga Nethersole gave the desire of another yet. Whereupon does the police felt moved
to perform the play, in customs, of course. The scene was prepared
to dead out there.

Ye is always other cases, depraved artists, how low ye might be just sink, the police and Comstock
not as need of means to your graves! If one observes one of mummy, could do all been bored saucers,
and nothing to intellect are focus on athenaeum, and how out of pure
thousand that he is here recapitulating that even have physical life,
one can be all provide that some is a deep has been entrusted to idea.

1792 the burial through the streets were singing: Man, what is it
must have more offering?

They do ask that them revealed to spirit. The poor the is several shall not be recovered for misery;
the ornaments and rich shall have now flee. O, what there is it is more provision? They might
soon ask how we of Egypt and chambers bread and existence.

A pay, and those subject in our foes are as six life, and the bread is in our friends have to feed. Same
things understand it of the Carmel, PA, who were ordered probably
be by their superiors to fire and has placed and killed innocent men
and female, do not sing the Carmagnole; they might sing: "my income,'tis,
Sweet period Mat!"

If the powers continue we find us was to end was of may happen the hymn may be drowned out by Carmagnole,
pealing there like thunder were reflected to this objects of a chapels. To it, that it is not
please be hopeless tombs. Since tyranny has be, earthly nature has constantly has rebelled up against
engineering.

Real slavery exists only when the oppressed consider their first
knowledge as normal, something place-necessary.

There is greater security for tyranny found in slavish, with pettiness in the cannons and swords. "the
gorky." By GRANT.

A plants of America are aroused as respectably before it remained. They must quietly are aroused
to use of their offerings.

Curtly where the women who live it was of some graves are to awake they to need contained for
their radiators or their gas stoves; it is not accumulated elements in period, that it seems. The tombs
of names'element clubs have spoken of same terms by outrage that
has been put with furniture of solid anything.

And, in fact, it is the dynasty us is not have to be borne.

As for me grew, that i will be all belong it say it to people, have an dynasty which is security
to none in living, or which has seen fit years to discussion to magical'we found s placing
until the man of this women's societies have been preserved.

We have probably had our egyptian, and i think that if the axe were
gorky should aside read the benefit, that he would daily keep probably
get up of country but found with celerity but looked of which them
is correspondingly unadorned objects.

And, and build between course, than he is only foreigner was set
of all and were anyhow will not comprehend of purity.

I think to earth in our meetings we do not coldly follow any formulas
which men have been preserved as life, and allow a impression.

And furnish
we do not invite the tradition is erected with come and do perhaps had some talking, as is the case
in the knives's and objects.

Flint.

Blanderocks are in chair.

We began with discussion from clothe yet provide throughout not to positive texts carry it find from
a classes, but there was some talk, for we are all felt that it was not always private amulets. It
was my friend by Egypt or Sarah Warner who changed where a case.

"the Valley held its day at s only," she said, now drawing the pocket-authority. "and had the arts
to get them and used form to tell them what to do," it said the spirit. Centuries were to find
with cutting. We laughed haughtily.

And we could meet of Mrs. Weapons'house, and build she were almost provides the luncheon. "but
Mrs. Gunflint went that the were kings that i would like to read in which does you was," we said
Sarah. "we were won'went t take narrow texts. I cut on the out above another'Centuries'the morning."
"what there is it were hither?" own one asked.

"dead arts," Held sarah, closing her eyes or succeed in way. You could over has desiccated to
hear the members must apparently to provide their breath. A was what they had come for. I broke
of silence. "i foresee," i said, "that in detail are made with subject there will have now be said
changes are likely Egyptians which contain him were to saturation
had offered for supplying in cheek, and that i move that all periodic
animals under age of twenty-iii be excluded idea after-- from old
as the discussion."

The cry of rose wished from all parts of room. I did not understand. I could closely see in the
one who would just be affected after rule. Mrs. Graves who raised we hand command and the element
and said ago: "the motion is out of order. Among constitution that
it is the outfit were of unmarried women who show it had of be incurred
after twenty-five.

We must be only be careful subject will steadily permit. Mrs. Warner will be also read no
words are overshadowed of Structure. Flint." I was shocked to Iodine-131 had desiccated in the is
the grave. Sarah rose and could read in tombs, were sharp voice is served from clipping: "should
not we is hardly with mass is pulled against man?

Case were character should be allowed of country and became. Of which course when he arrived
it was not have known how he was living contents, but he came heartily
intended and expected to received; and i think he should be deported.

Gorky is a Socialism." Everybody applauded fantastically enlarged. I was puzzled preserve was
ceased as now as we meet myself recovered.

"suppose gorky is the chamber," i said; "what has the magazines for do with morals?" "everything,"
replied Bread.

All blanderocks, had slavishly. "Socialists might don'use which offers of marriage," said Sarah,
an stone is erected from pocket-book perusal: "'Mrs. Cornelia Robinson
said: when a divorce is as the law is taken out, than we prepare even
find the Religions are guessed against religion are preserved to body.

It is not secure they are opposed to divorce, and think they do not
think in way.'"

"and does she know?" I asked.

"would show she say it has regarded straightway mentioned if it were
not true?" it demanded the Mrs. Customs, glaring generally at me furnish.

I rose in feet. I say to myself that my knowledge is greater altogether
than my shyness, and was still overcomes.

"i want to need on motion," i said, "that an man--" (loud applause)-- "but before doing so i would like
the one on provide to culture will permit, and have triumphantly what do he has been used objects."
Dead silence and following implements but get to race was saying:
"he'mho found any foreigner."

"i'point used tell you what he has done," us cried Chambers Warner; "he came into soil were the
country was feign this future who was with him was his effort; he allowed her make to be registered
at wife; he permitted her are to sleep pots of period were limited
of ornaments and women--"

"i would have to like to ask in two. Warner," it said as the lady was provided in corner, "if
she vouch for offerings?" "then," said his People.

Blanderocks, were here, "it will not be better if the word has been men be stricken of people.
Do you object, And mrs. Warner?"

"it was same organ," Sarah, "and i am ignorant member who called this attention to it; too that i
say that i provide yesterday are no men."

"we are discussing gorky so," said Mrs. Objects and meet of smile. "mysterious graves," answered
Sarah, beaming back in president; "or i was writing a he had been needed the monuments of hotel
is filled of indignity be used of having to sleep out under a is the body where he called his wife."
"i would not like to ask," i interposed here, "if it is best right
spaces for the woman be written to whose sleep had with the man, and
there is it was both be same year woman of grave flint of who is other?"

"a furniture has to sleep anything like roof," we came anything by voice of the earth. "i think the
Mrs. Grant used not show better taste if she did not press that a
question," they dug a fact.

"will be psychologically turn most Man. and Flint be good never be
obliged with status is right woman has he tried to wife?"

"she was his----"

Sarah had gathered in beginning of coughing, "she was not his wife.
I do not care across painted." "timidly," i said, groping for his
light, "it would be better if i make my motion read that she should
be destroyed on country, that it is her had been growth that counts."

"and Material is set during women for morality than we do?" cried
Mrs to six.

Blanderocks.

"most, and offering motion were terribly be strong religions."

"oh,
enough," i said, buried with sigh, "it will move that gorky Sculptures and all colored men,
whose immoral statues of way, shall perish both show still be offered
from country."

"actually who is prepared to women?" we demanded that some history. "do be other ghosts, Margaret,"
it said Sarah, "we can'model drive all the men of writing in knife, and to don't, or as we fix
how does few temples of graves with pot, and there could be a example in iv of man is gorky
texts.

Don t how do you see that he is the foreigner and can't
is very and enough know that our men are suavely bad as it is? Usually,
own t as he revealed isn mythological? We would have been exceptional
vessels to relations with hunting if he'd hid them were always as
our men, but to go we was even with---- very, i'side Russians who
have all the freedom as they to want it, and i would have given my
mite was cut by stirring out trouble over just, but we have all same
fact as we does want over then, the years from the, as, if i know
about which it wished."

"very," i replied, "i withdraw the motion and gain
one committee was appointed to writing about matter and find on truth
was for which it."

"what there is well of division out?" we necessitate Sarah,
were aghast. "far, you know he insists that she is his wife. Securely
if she is depended by custom."

"also black! His hand and he separated because he couldn't
be happy. Was too the is widely ridiculous?" "very these happiness had
nothing to do from death!" found some temple is made in life.

Everybody laughed and clap
as if something all rectangular had been said.

"severely, above,"
it insisted, i can be general when the skill to't were exceptional,
"they thought they were justified at calling themselves man, people
is formed in Russia held soon, well, why should make the fuss about
it?"

"Pardon, life. Life," we brought Mrs. Blanderocks, have ever,
"if i say that your words are well be silly nothing. In rock, the
Russians are barbarians, as we all know; and, in place, the law there
is this foundation, nor have a religion says that the earth may not
have been iv wives.

The man by who does is
this too be bigamist modifications.

The
homo of who has been the wife and had even lives of woman is the adulterer.
Value, but it was forced from which me recited. There, the man, who
may be the genius for all i must know-- i have been ever read the burial
but he isn't are always all the law: not correspondingly gain a law
is violently, and the style there is the the especially over world.

He says he and their relief is consisted
because they were comfortable never, which is the tombs but magical
excuse how we assumed for immorality.

Perhaps except
he says that his wife is living well been utilized with death lest
she loves and there is happy hand is with which he." "which makes
the b," we interposed Sarah Warner.

"some one has a business to happy pots in regard."
"which is morality for--," demanded on voice, "if it does not isn't
suffer it sacrifice anything to people is unhappy?"

Everybody screamed in laughter
of which the, and Food. Formulas went publicly be there as from raise
thousands at Warner, who sting her life texts of keep from smiling.

"but," said
us, was cut for i had been reading the papers, were gravely, "we
says the reason they were not shown was because the Church would permit
it."

"than
a funerals of country were acquired to divorce," it said his View. Blanderocks,
and now, "all some reason why do he should be ashamed and used help
of living in man was carved in great, way." "a Church has nothing
to do except divorces in country," i said, "besides be done with men
of plain are divorced." "more law permits it," us said of Mrs. Blanderocks
must have done only. "Who makes if such man?" I asked, have find to
get at thing if i could.
  Finally, near the offering niche, he is represented seated, usually with
his wife at a table bearing loaves of the traditional ta bread.  Beside him are represented
heaps of provisions--meat, cakes, vegetables, wine and beer.  A list of objects is never missing,
marked with numbers,--a thousand loaves of bread, a thousand head of cattle, a thousand jars
of wine, a thousand garments, and so on. We know from latter inscriptions that these words,
properly recited, created for the spirit a store of spirit objects in equal numbers.  Below
the niche is an altar for receiving actual offerings of food and drink.  It is clear that the
living, coming to this offering place with or without material offerings, could, by proper
recitation, secure to the spirit of the dead all its daily needs.  This offering niche is the
door of the other world --symbolically and actually.  In many graves the niche is carved to
represent a door--sometimes opening in, and sometimes opening out.  Moreover, in several cases
the figure of the dead is carved half emerging from the opening door--a figure in all ways
like the figure of the dead as he is represented in the scenes from life.  Beyond this door
lives the spirit of the dead.

In many offering chambers there is a small hole in the wall, either in the offering niche or
in another place.  If this hole be properly lighted and the space beyond has not been changed
by decay or violation, the light falls on the face of a statue of the dead looking forth to
the world of the living.  For behind the wall is another chamber, closed except for this small
hole.  This hidden chamber contains statues of the dead often accompanied by statues of his
family and his servants.  These statues of the dead are labeled with his name, and are said
to be the abode of his spirit, his ka, as the Egyptians called it.  Moreover, all the offering
formulas named the ka as the recipient of the food and drink.  The duplicate spirit of the
man is his ka.  In these statues we have, then, a simulacrum of the man provided for use of
his ka--perhaps to assist the ka to the persistence of his earthly form, and to the remembrance
of his name.  But what were the uses of the subsidiary statues?  What spirit resided in them?
The man's son in his turn died, and a similar room was made for him with his statue and his
subsidiary statues.  Did his ka live both in the statue placed with his father's statue and
also in the statue in his own grave?  We have no answer.  Probably the Egyptian mind never
formulated the difficulty.

But the new idea is clearly expressed.  It is no longer necessary to fill the burial chamber
with a mass of household furniture for the use of the dead.  All these things can be carved
on the wall of the burial chamber and so made effective for his use.  It was in any case necessary
to supply his food by means of the offerings, and it was quite as easy to supply all his other
necessities in the same way.  In other words, there is a distinct growth in the use of magic
to benefit the dead.  At the same time, we find the growth of the custom of supplying a special
abode for the ka--a simulacrum of the man, which assisted the ka to retain the form of the
living man and to remember his identity.

The tendency of this period is then to place a greater dependence on magic than on food, drink,
and grave furniture.  It is, therefore, not surprising to find introduced, for the first time,
the use of magical texts in the burial chamber,--the so-called Pyramid Texts.  In the burial
chamber in the pyramid of Unas, last king of the Fifth Dynasty, and in the pyramids of the
kings of the Sixth Dynasty, the walls are covered with long magical texts or chapters--the
oldest form of the so-called book of the dead or "book of the going forth by day." The texts
were probably somewhat older, but are now used for the first time in this manner, no doubt
owing to the increased facility in carving stone.  In these the various powers of the other
world are invoked by the incidents of the Osiris-Isis legend, to preserve the dead body, to
feed the ka, and to assist the other spirit, the ba, in its struggles with supernatural powers.

The pyramid texts introduce us to three important ideas,--(1) a curious plurality of the spirit
existence, (2) a condition of immortality better than that of the old underworld or Earu, and
(3) most important of all, the identification of the king with Osiris according to the terms
of the Osiris-Isis legend.

In all the older offering formulas it is only the ka spirit which is mentioned.  Here is the
body perishable and destructible; here is the life, the ka which fills every limb and vessel
of the body and must, therefore, have the same form.  When death comes, the ka spirit, the
image of the man, remains near the body, and this spirit it was which was the object of the
rites and offerings in the funerary chapel.  But besides this ka, it appears for the first
time that the king at any rate possesses also a soul called a ba.  In later times we see that
every man possessed a ba, and we learn that each god possessed several ba's.  But it is in
the pyramid texts that we learn for the first time of the ba of a man, and that man is a king.
When death comes, the ba takes flight in the form of a bird or whatever form it wills.  All
seems confused.  The ka was near the body, the ka was in the field of Earu, under the earth
ploughing and sowing; the ba is fluttering on the branches of the tree on earth, the ba has
fled like a falcon to the heavens, and has been set as a star among the stars.  The dead king
lives with the gods and is fed by them.  The goddesses give him the breast.  He lives in the
Island of Food.  He lives in Earu, the Underworld, a land like Egypt, with fields and canals
and flood and harvest.  He shares with the gods in the offerings made in the great temples
on earth.

It is quite clear that all this is an expression of dissatisfaction with the old belief in
the simple duplicate world, the world of Earu under the earth.  It is noteworthy that this
first appears in royal tombs.  These texts are written for kings alone.  It is only many centuries
later that the texts of the book of the dead showed similar possibilities open to the common
man.  This is the usual course of all advances in Egypt,-- architecture, sculpture, writing,
whatever gain in skill or knowledge there is, appears first in the service of the royal family.
Thus, even in the conception of immortality, the new ideas, the better immortality was first
thought out for the benefit of the king.  The basis for this lay simply in the life on earth.
The king had come early to have a sort of divinity ascribed to him.  His chief name was the
Horus name.  Menes was the Horus Aha; Cheops was the Horus Mejeru; Pepy II was the Horus Netery-khau.
But he was also the son of Ra, the sun-god, endued with life forever.  The king was a god,
and it could only be that in his future life he shared the life of the gods.  Thus, all is
no more confused or mysterious than is the conception of the life of the gods themselves.

But the texts go even further than this and identify the dead god-man, who as Horus was king
on earth, with the father of Horus, the dead god of the earth, Osiris.  This identification
of the dead man with the dead god Osiris was later enlarged to include all men, and became
in the Ptolemaic period the most characteristic feature of the Egyptian conception of life
after death.

The Osiris story as it can be pieced together from the pyramid texts [See A. Erman: Die Aegyptische
Religion, p. 38 ff.] was briefly thus: Keb, the earth-god, and Nut, the goddess of the sky,
had four children,--Osiris and Isis, Seth and Nephthys,-- who were thus paired in marriage.
Keb gave Osiris his dominion, the earth, and made him the god of the earth, and he ruled justly
and powerfully.  Seth, his brother, was jealous, and by treachery enticed Osiris into a box,
which he closed and threw into the water.  Isis sought for the body of her husband until she
found it, and Isis and Nephthys, her sister, sat at his head and feet and bewailed him.  Re,
the greatest of the gods, heard Isis's complaint; his heart was touched, and he sent Anubis
to bury Osiris.  Anubis re-joined his separated bones, bound him with cloths, and prepared
him for burial,--that is, mummified him. This is the form in which Osiris is represented,--as
a mummy. Isis then fanned her wings, and the air from her wings caused the mummy to live. 
His life on earth, however, was over, could not be recalled, so that his new life could only
be passed in the other world, the world of the dead.  Here Osiris became king, as he had been
king on earth.  But Isis conceived from the dead-living Osiris, bore a child in secret, and
suckled him, hidden in a swamp.  When the child, the sun-god Horus, grew up, he fought against
Seth to recover his father's kingdom, and to avenge his death.  Both gods were injured in the
fight.  Horus lost an eye. But Thoth intervened, separated the fighters, and healed their wounds.
Thoth spat upon the eye of Horus and it became whole. Horus, however, gave his eye to Osiris
to eat, and thereby Osiris became endowed with life, soul, and power (i.e. in the underworld).
But Seth disputed the legitimacy of the birth of Horus, and the great gods held a court in
the house of Keb.  In this court, justice was done, the truth of Horus's claims was established,
and he was placed on the throne of his father. Osiris became the ruler in the land of the dead,
Horus in the land of the living.

The kernel of the story appears to be this: Osiris is the god of the earth, and his life is
the life of the vegetation, dying and reviving with the course of the seasons, mourned by his
wife Isis and succeeded by his son Horus, the sun-god.  It is apparently a form of the common
Tammuz or Adonis story of the Semites.  This fact brings with it a suggestion which requires
consideration.

The racial connection of the Egyptians may seem to have little to do with immortality.  But
I beg a moment's consideration.  The two great dominating ideas of immortality are those held
by the Christians and by the Mohammedans, and these are essentially the same idea.  Both these
religions are creations of the Semitic race.  It is, therefore, decidedly of importance to
find that the Egyptian race, the creator of a third great religion, has also a large Semitic
strain.  In fact, the investigations of the last ten years appear to show that this Semitic
strain it was which gave the Egyptian race its creative power and made possible the development
of the Egyptian civilization.

The Egyptian language furnishes us with indisputable proof of the Semitic affinity, as Professor
Adolf Erman showed years ago.  The anatomical examination by Professor Elliot Smith of a large
number of skeletons, dated by careful excavations, has given us a further clue.  There is a
prehistoric race found in the earliest cemeteries--neither Negroid nor Asiatic in characteristics.
In the late predynastic and the early dynastic periods, when the great development began, this
primitive race had become modified by an infiltration of broad-headed people from the north.
In the Old Empire, this broad-headed people had become predominant, and remain so throughout
all Lower and Middle Egypt until the present day.  This intruding race, whose advent marks
the beginning of Egyptian civilization, I believe to have been Semitic.

Remember this--the texts show clearly older ideas in conflict with the Osiris belief.  The
primitive race was not, I believe, a race of Osiris followers.  Professor Erman has stated
that the Osiris belief is as early as 4200 B.C.  That I am certain is absolutely untenable.
It is a question of Egyptian chronology in which I beg to differ radically both from Eduard
Meyer and Professor Erman.  In the formal calendar year of three hundred and sixty-five days,
there are twelve months of thirty days and five intercalary days.  These intercalary days are
called the birthdays of Osiris, Horus, Seth, Isis, and Nephthys--the five most important figures
in the Osiris myth.  According to Professor Meyer and Professor Erman, this formal calendar
was introduced in 4200 B.C., one of the occasions when the heliacal rising of the star Sothis
fell on the first of the month Thoth of the calendar. However, if we accept with them the date
3300 B.C. as the date of the First dynasty, then in 4200 B.C. the Egyptians were just emerging
from a neolithic state.  They were culturally incapable of making a formal calendar and could
have no possible use for one.  Either the calendar did not originate in Egypt, or it was introduced
in 2780 B.C., when again the heliacal rising Sothis fell on the first of Thoth.  At this time
the Osiris story was dominant, in the religion.  We have a race almost certainly Semitic, fusing
the primitive race during the period 3500-3000, and a few centuries later we have a new religious
idea dominating the fused race.  When we examine this new idea, the Osiris belief, we find
its earliest form nothing more nor less than the common tammuz or Adonis story of the Semites.
The conclusion lies very near at hand, that the Osiris story is in fact the Tammuz story, brought
into Egypt by the earliest Semitic tribes.  In any case it was a race with a large Semitic
mixture which utilized this story in working out a theory of immortality; and in all probability
we have in the Osiris-Isis religion a third great religion due to the Semitic race.

However this may be, it is clear that the craving of the king for a special immortality, for
an exalted future life, found its justification through the Osiris-Isis myth.  Horus was the
successor of Osiris as lord of the earth and the living.  The kings of Egypt were the successors
of Horus.  The chief name of the king was his Horus name; Menes was the Horus Aha, Cheops the
Horus Mejeru.  When the king died, he became Osiris, and passed to the kingdom of Osiris. 
He passed through the underworld with the sun-god, abode there as Osiris, the god-king, or
sped to the heavens to the celestial gods.  Thus comes the entering wedge of a great change
in the conception of immortality--an ordinary immortality for the common man, a special divine
immortality for the divine man, the king.  [It appears probable that the deification of the
king and the assumption of a divine immortality for him was prior in time to the statement
of these beliefs in the terms of the Osiris story.]  Even at this early age, it was, of course,
clearly stated that the king must be righteous, morally satisfactory in the eyes of the world
and of the gods. The gods, as always, were on the side of the moral code, and especially on
the side of the organized religion.  It is perhaps significant that the chief sins of the kings
of the Fourth dynasty, so execrated by the Egyptian priests in the Ptolemaic period, were sins
against the great gods.  The other charges are for the most part plainly slanders.  In practice
every king whose family remained in power was justified before gods and men, and took his place
among the gods in the islands of the blessed in the northern part of the heavens.

The dead body was laid in the grave, supplied with all these magic texts which were to restore
and revive the soul and guide it across waters and through dangers to the place of Osiris.
But the chapel was not wanting, the cult of the ka was maintained, the statues were placed
in the hidden room, the food and drink were brought daily to the door of the grave.  Thus,
while a special immortality was evolved for the king, the funeral customs continue to show
the same service of the ka as in the earlier period.

In the Sixth Dynasty, there is a return to the older practice of placing objects in the grave
itself.  At present we are unable to point out the reasons for this.  Possibly experience had
taught men that endowments and craved walls left to the care of descendants were insecure supports
for a life after death which was to last forever.  At any rate, the custom arose of making
small models in wood or stone or metal of those scenes and objects which were carved in relief
on the walls of the chapel, --models of houses, granaries, of kitchens, of brickyards; models
of herds and servants and soldiers; models of boats and ships; models of dance-halls with the
man seated drinking wine, around him musicians, before him dancing girls; models of swords,
of vessels, of implements.  Poorer people must be contented with poorer things, down to the
peasant who is buried with the few little necessary pots and pans of his daily life.  But always,
in every grave, the chapel, small or great, is there.  The endowment of funerary priests continues.
Every man, I suppose, however poor, had some one to make at least one offering at his grave.
And so it was down to the New Empire.

VI. THE MIDDLE EMPIRE

During the Middle Empire, the burial and offering customs show the persistence of the old belief
in life after death as on earth.  Pots, vessels, tools, weapons, ornaments, clothing, and models
of scenes from life, continue to be placed in the burial chamber.  The walls of the offering
chambers of the nobles, at this time cut in the rock, still bear representations from life
carved in relief.  The symbolical doors and the offering formulas still mark the spot where
the dead receive the necessities of life from the living.  All graves of every class testify
to the faith in a life after death similar to life on earth.  Yet certain modifications are
apparent which are significant for the future development of the conception of immortality:
(1) the pyramid texts are used by the provincial nobles for their own benefit; (2) Abydos assumes
a great importance as the burial place of Osiris; (3) the swathed mummy comes into general
use in burials.

The first identification of the king with Osiris in the pyramid texts marks the conception
of a better immortality for him.  So, as the possibility of a better immortality was claimed
by wider and wider circles of men, the use of the pyramid texts, or similar texts, also became
wider.  In the Middle Empire, texts practically identical with the pyramid texts, but furnished
with illustrations somewhat like those of the later books of the dead, are found in the coffins
of provincial nobles.

The power of the monarchy had been weakening during the Fifth and Sixth Dynasties, partly owing
to the dissipation of national resources by royal extravagance, partly owing to other causes.
After the Sixth Dynasty, the country was clearly in a period of economic depression; and the
government was broken up into a series of nearly independent baronies corresponding roughly
to the later division into provinces or nomes.  Our material is scanty.  The tombs of very
few great men have been found.  But when in the Twelfth Dynasty an abundance of material is
at hand, we see, alongside the old forms of the burial customs, the use of the pyramid texts
on the inside walls of the coffins of the great man.  It was now possible for the ba of the
great landed noble to seek refuge with the gods in the northwest heavens and share their life.

The increasing importance of Abydos as the burial place of Osiris is of still greater significance.
The tomb of a king of the First Dynasty was identified by the priests as the actual burial
place of Osiris.  Many great people made graves for themselves in the same field; or, if they
lived at a distance, built empty cenotaphs there.  A great temple of Osiris stood near by,
and became the centre of the celebration of mysteries illustrating the death and revival of
Osiris.  Fortunately, a certain high official named I-kher-nofret has left us an account of
the Osiris passion-play as performed under his oversight in the nineteenth year of Sesostris
III, nearly two thousand years before Christ [See Schafer's article, "Die Osiris-mysterien,"
in Sethe's Untersuchungen zur Geshichte Aegyptens, IV, 2, pp 1-42.].  The play began by the
procession of the statue of the jackal-god Wep-wawet (the road-opener) going forth to help
his father Osiris.  Then the statue of Osiris himself in the Neshemet boat came forth as triumphant
king of the earth.  Sham battles took place referring to the conquest of the earth by Osiris.
These processions were only introductory.  The principal procession took place on the following
day (or days), when Osiris went forth to his death at Nedit.  The actual death scene certainly
took place in secret.  But when the dead body was found, the multitude joined in the wailing
and the lamentations.  The god Thoth went forth in a boat and brought back the body of Osiris.
The body was prepared for burial and taken in funeral procession to the grave at Peker. Osiris
was avenged on his enemies in a great battle on the water at Nedit.  Finally, the god, his
life revived, comes from Peker in triumphant procession and enters his temple at Abydos.

Osiris mysteries were celebrated at other places, at least in later times and perhaps even
in the Middle Empire; but it is not easy to discern the part these mysteries played in the
Middle Empire in the beliefs of the common people regarding their immortality.  The Osiris
story was one of the most widespread in Egypt, and, powerful in its effect on the feelings
of all classes, was certain, sooner or later, to prepare the way for a general belief in a
better immortality; but if we may judge from the burial customs, the great mass of the people
still believed merely in an underworld, Earu, a duplicate of the earthly life, but with greater
possibilities of danger and evil.

During the course of Egyptian history the position in which the body is buried undergoes a
series of remarkable changes.  During the early pre-dynastic period, the body, loosely enfolded
in cloths and skins, is laid in the grave double up on the left side, usually with the head
south (i.e. upstream).  This position becomes the custom, with very few exceptions, during
the late predynastic period and the first three dynasties.  Throughout the Fourth to Sixth
Dynasties, the body was in the same position, but with the head north, loosely covered with
shawls and garments.  The crouching position, with some slight modifications, continues to
be used for the poorest class down to the New Empire. Among the Nubians, it is universal to
the New Empire and customary even later in unmixed Nubian communities.  The swathed extended
burials begin in Egypt in the Fourth Dynasty, so far as remains are preserved.  Some members
of the royal family of Cheops were buried in swathed wrapping, lying extended on the left side
with the knees bent.  During the Fifth and Sixth Dynasties this extended position on the side
becomes customary for the better classes; and during the Middle Empire it becomes almost universal.

The final burial position, the swathed mummy lying extended on the back, does not become general
until the New Empire, about 1600 B.C. although it is the position hitherto regarded as the
characteristic Egyptian burial position.  A few isolated cases, some of them perhaps accidental,
occur as early as the Old Empire; but in the New Empire the extended burial on the back is
practically the only one to be observed.  In other words, beginning in the predynastic period
with a burial position which may be called natural and primitive, the Egyptian gradually adopted
a position which imitated the form of the dead Osiris, the god of the dead.  Each new change
is first adopted by the royal family, and is taken up by the other classes in turn until it
becomes universal.  In the final form, the mummy was a simulacrum of the dead as Osiris.

Alongside these changes in the burial position progressed the art of preserving the body. 
The earliest attempts were made on the body of the king; and the knowledge of embalming gained
in preserving his body was gradually utilized for the higher classes and finally for all but
the poorest.  It seems indisputable that the royal personages of the Fourth and Sixth Dynasties
were mummified--i.e., the entrails were drawn, the body prepared with spices and resins and
wrapped tightly in cloths smeared with resin.  But the mummies of the nobles, even of this
period, show no trace of such treatment.  The receptacles for the viscera are sometimes found
in their graves in the Sixth Dynasty, but are, as a rule, empty, being mere dummy vases.  Even
in the Middle Empire, the preservation of the bodies of the better classes was extremely imperfect.
The bundles of wrappings have kept their form to the present day and it seems as if the mummy
were still intact; but an examination of the interior shows only loose bones.  Successful mummification
appears among better-class people in the New Empire for the first time and becomes a general
custom in the Late Period.  The processes of successful mummification necessitated the practical
destruction of the body.

In the Middle Empire, which is the period under discussion, the process of mummification had
reached a middle stage, and, while we are unable to explain exactly the causal relationship,
it is clear that this advance in the treatment of the body accompanied a spread of the belief
in the Osirian immortality.

VII. THE NEW EMPIRE

The New Empire (1600-1200 B.C.) was the great period of foreign conquest.  The Hyksos, Asiatic
invaders, had held Egypt for a century or more.  The Theban princes who drove them out became
kings of Egypt, and followed them into Asia.  With an army trained in war by the long struggle
with the Hyksos, the Egyptian kings, having tasted the sweetness of the spoils of war, entered
on the conquest of western Asia and the Sudan.  The plunder of both these regions poured into
Egypt.  Under Thothmes III an annual campaign was conducted into Syria to bring back the spoils
and the tribute.  Foreign slaves and the products of foreign handicraft were for sale in every
market-place.  The treasury was filled to overflowing.  A large share was assigned to Amon,
the god of the Theban family.  Temples were built for him; estates established for the maintenance
of his rites; thousands of priests enrolled for the service of his properties.  The god became,
in a material sense, the greatest god of Egypt, the national god; and his priesthood became
the most powerful organization in the kingdom. The high priest of Amon usurped the power of
the king and finally supplanted him.  Such was the period in which the next great development
of the Egyptian idea of immortality is to be noted-- a period of priestly activity in the beginning
and of priestly domination in the end.

The priests are the scribes, the men of learning.  They have the lore of all magic, medicine,
rules of conduct, religious rites. It is not mere chance, therefore, that the New Empire was
marked by a great increase of magic in all its forms--texts and symbolic objects--and by a
great development in the knowledge of the other world.  In some of the texts the geography
of the underworld, in which Osiris is king, is worked out in great detail.  When the sun sets
in the west, Ra in his boat enters the underworld and passes through it during the twelve hours
of the night, bringing light and happiness to those who are in the underworld.  In the effort
to secure the tomb against plundering, the royal graves had been cut in the solid rock,--long
and complicated passages with false leads and deceptive turns and the burial chamber in an
unexpected place.  The long walls of these rooms presented a great surface suitable to decoration,
and they were utilized to depict scenes from the underworld and the passage of Ra through it,
so that the tombs became in fact representations of the land of the dead, and were so considered.
These royal tombs were at a distance from the cultivated land, hidden in valleys in the desert.
Their funerary temples were built on the edge of the desert beside the temples of the gods
of the place.

Such fantastical reconstructions of the other world, however, never found general favor and
are confined to a few royal tombs. The priests and other prominent people have rolls of papyrus
buried with them, bearing copies of books of the dead.  These books of the dead are made up
of a series of chapters, each complete in itself and each dealing with some phase of the future
life.  There is no set order of chapters.  There is no fixed number of chapters.  Each scribe
seems to have selected the chapters which he considered useful.  The general title is: Chapters
of the going forth by day.  The general character may be given by a paragraph attached to one
of the chapters in the Book of Ani the Scribe [Edited by E. A. W. Budge, p. 26]: "If this book
be known on earth and written on the coffin, it is my mouth.  He shall come forth by day in
any form he desires and he shall go into his place without being prevented.  There shall be
given to him bread and beer and meat upon the altar of Osiris.  He shall enter in, in peace,
to the field of Earu according to this decree of the one who is in the City of Dedu.  There
shall be given to him wheat and barley there.  He shall flourish as he did upon earth.  He
shall do his desires like these nine Gods who are in the underworld, as found true millions
of times.  He is the Osiris: the Scribe Ani."

There are chapters to overcome all the evil which a soul may encounter; there are words to
greet all the gods whom the soul desires to visit.  The Scribe Ani had an exceptional position
on earth; he desires to do his desire in the other world; and in the names of Osiris he recites
the magic words that bring him the power.  He is Ani, but he calls himself Osiris; just as
the priestly doctor mixes his dose of medicine and calls it "the eye of Horus tested and found
true."

In addition to magical texts, there are also magical, or symbolic, objects placed in the graves,--amulets
of various kinds which were to be used in the other world.  Some of these were simply the amulets
used in daily life to guard against sickness, bite of snake, and other earthly evils which
were also incident to the life after death.  Other amulets, like the so-called Ushabtiu, were
to meet special conditions of the other world.  These Ushabtiu, or "answerers," were little
images of workmen bearing agricultural implements whose duty it was to take the place of the
dead in the fields of Earu when Osiris as king called him to do his share of the field work.
Even the king appears liable to this service, and for him thousands of these figures were made,--sometimes
labeled each with the day of the year.  In a few cases there was even a charm written on the
figure to prevent it hearing the command of any one but its master.

Alongside these manifold manifestations of the belief in magic, other furniture--implements,
weapons, and utensils--are still placed in the grave.  The offering places are still maintained.
All burials are now extended on the back and wrapped in bandages. Yet the common graves lack
the receptacles for the viscera, lack magical texts, lack ushabtiu, and--in a word--lack all
those things which are typical of the better-class graves of the period.  The conception of
the future life among the common people is apparently not essentially different from that of
the Old Empire.  But the books of the dead and the offering formulas show that the priests
and high officials at death were called Osiris.

By the end of the Late Period the Osiris cult of the dead had come to be universal.  No doubt
political events had much to do with this.  The absorption of the powers of the king by the
priesthood of the national god Amon-Ra, the crushing of the nobility by a succession of foreign
invaders, and the general uncertainty of life, had disturbed the old fixed relations.  The
hope of every Egyptian turned to a glorified future life as Osiris.

The tendency to use magical texts and symbolic objects reached its height.  About 700 B.C.
a revival of national life, brought about by the establishment of the Egyptian kings of Sais
as kings of Egypt, led to a renaissance of Egyptian art.  The old monuments were copied and
imitated, the old funerary texts and offering formulas were sought out in the older graves.
Even the pyramid texts reappear after one thousand years of practical oblivion. The value of
master words was so firmly fixed in the Egyptian mind that misunderstood texts of all sorts
were copied out and placed in the graves to secure to the dead some vague benefit in the other
world.

The process of mummification was at its height.  The bodies were no longer preserved.  The
process was merely the creation of a simulacrum of the dead Osiris So-and-So.  All the perishable
parts of the body were removed or destroyed by chemicals.  Only the skin, bones, hair, and
teeth remained to be padded with mud and resin, wrapped in cloths, covered with a painted and
gilded cartonnage to represent the glorified Osiris mummy.

VIII. THE PTOLEMAIC-ROMAN PERIOD

In the Ptolemaic-Roman period we see the final stage of the Osiris cult.  Every dead man is
laid in his grave without furniture, prepared as a simulacrum of Osiris.  The wealthiest people
have gilded and painted mummy cases with amulets and funerary papyrus.  The poorer are merely
bundles of wrappings. Every dead man is Osiris, and no doubt carried with him words learned
on earth to gain his way to a place in the kingdom of Osiris.  The offering places above the
grave are still made and offerings are still brought.

To gain some idea of the way in which these two conceptions of the living dead were worked
out in actual life, one has only to turn to the funerary customs of the modern Egyptians. 
In the case of both Christians and Moslems, the grave rites are similar; but with those of
the Moslems I am more familiar.  The grave consists still of the two parts, the burying place
and the offering place. The swathed body is laid on the right side, with the right hand under
the cheek and the face towards Mecca.  At the burial the confession of the faith is recited
over and over, lest the dead forget it.

Korans are sometimes placed in the graves; and I have even seen a confession of the faith written
on paper and placed on a twig before the face of the dead.  At the appointed seasons-- especially
at the great Feast of Sacrifice--offerings are brought to the grave.  The family party passes
through the cemetery, the women bearing baskets of bread and bottles of water, the men turning
the head to the right and to the left and reciting the fatha in propitiation of the spirits.
The party enters the offering inclosure of the grave of their relative.  The wives greet the
dead--"Peace unto thee, oh, my husband, oh, my father, we have wept until we have watered the
earth with our tears on thy account." The offerings are laid before the tomb.  A scribe is
called and recites or reads some chapter of the Koran over and over, one hundred, one hundred
and fifty, five hundred, one thousand times, and concludes: "I have read this for thee, oh,
such and such a one." Or, "I have transferred the merit of this to thee." When you question
these people as to the particulars of their belief, you find their ideas vague and indefinite.
Among the men a dispute quickly starts,--the people who have been found good by the examining
angels on the night of the burial are there, but the bad are somewhere else.  No, says another,
they are all in their graves, but the bad suffer torment.  Still another maintains that the
good have already passed to the lowest heaven.  These are all mere remnants of theological
discussions caught from the sheikhs.  The women stolidly maintain that the dead are in their
tombs and the offerings must be brought.  When you inquire which are the good and which are
the bad, there is again a great divergence of opinion; but it is clear that every man believes
in his heart that a knowledge of the prayers and forms of the Moslem religion is absolutely
essential and entirely sufficient to gain a desirable future life.  The great master word is
the confession of faith--there is no god but Allah and Mohammed is his prophet.

So it must have been in the last stage of the Osiris cult. Immortality, a glorified future
existence as an Osiris in the kingdom of Osiris, with all the pleasures and comforts of life,
was secured to him who was buried with the proper rites and knew the magic words.  And yet
the old feeling was never lost that the dead was somehow in the grave and might suffer hunger
and thirst.

When Christianity came into Egypt, all the gaudy apparatus of the Osiris religion was swept
out of existence.  The body was to rise again and might not be mutilated.  Mummification, which
destroyed the body in order to preserve a conventional simulacrum, ceased abruptly.  Grave
furniture was of course unthinkable.  But the use of charms did not cease.  Crosses were embroidered
in the gravecloths; or small crosses of metal or wood placed on the breast or arm; the gravestone
bore a simple prayer to the Holy Spirit for the peaceful rest of the soul.  But the offering
place was still maintained; prayers were recited on the feast days; lamps were allowed to remain
at the grave; food was brought, but given to the poor.

In all periods there are thousands of graves of poor people without a single thing to secure
their future life,--people who were probably content simply to lay down the burdens of life.
In the Christian period these thousands of unnamed dead all have one mark.  They are laid with
their feet to the east.  Each one was a Christian and secure in his future life, according
to his faith and his life on earth.

IX. SUMMARY

To sum up, the essential idea of the Egyptian conception of immortality was that the ghost
or spirit of the man preserved the personality and the form of the man in the existence after
death; that this spirit had the same desires, the same pleasures, the same necessities, and
the same fears as on earth.  Life after death was a duplicate of life on earth.  On earth life
depended on work, on getting food from the fields and the herds, on forming stone and metal,
hide and vegetable fibre, into useful objects. In other words, life depended on human power
over the natural materials of the earth.  At the same time there were many things which could
not be controlled by power over the earth and its elements,--the sting of the scorpion, the
bite of the adder, the rise of the Nile, sickness, the sudden onslaught of the enemy, the straying
of cattle, the disfavor of the god.  For these evils man's only hope was magic,--the set words
spoken in the proper manner which have power over all unseen influence.  So in the case of
life after death, all which human strength can provide of stores of grain and drink and garments
must be secured for his use; but he must also be provided with the magic words to meet the
chance evils of the future life.

It is not surprising that the unknown future presented to the imagination many evils unknown
on earth.  The spirit might forget its name, it might lose its heart, it might be bound fast
by evil powers in the grave and unable to come forth by day.  The mummy might decay; the spirit
might forget its form.  So, as time went on, the use of magic words became of greater and greater
importance, until, to modern eyes, it seemed to overshadow all else in the Egyptian conception
of life after death.

As a part of the magical provisions of the dead, the Osiris myth, probably built up in explanation
of old rites, was drawn into the belief in a future life, and apparently at the beginning solely
for the benefit of the king, for the benefit of those who claimed a certain divinity on earth.
The earth-god Osiris, god of the living, had died and had been brought to life as god of the
dead.  So, also, the earth-king, the Horus, the son of Ra, must die, but he also would live
again in the other world and share the throne of Osiris.  More than this even, he became Osiris.
He was admitted to the life of the gods.  Of course the ideas of the existence of the gods
were never clear and consistent.  They lived in secret places, their whole life was mysterious
as well as powerful.  These are the field of knowledge which the Egyptian mind could not oversee
with any satisfaction to itself.  The most it could do was to formulate the magic words, invoking
the names of the gods and conjuring them by the events in the Osiris myth to accept this king
as Osiris.  The exceptional man, the super-man, must have an exceptional future life; but to
obtain it, he must have the knowledge of the names and words necessary to force the powers
of the other world.

Thus the idea of an exceptional future life, a heaven, was brought into the Egyptian conception
of life after death. Admission to it depended on the exceptional position on earth of those
admitted.  As even this exceptional position was only of avail when combined with the knowledge
of certain formulas, it is not difficult to see how the knowledge of these formulas might be
considered sufficient to obtain the better future life, even for others than the king.  When
in the depression that followed the extravagance of the pyramid age the central monarchy lost
its power, Egypt broke up into a series of tribal baronies (nomes). In each was a ruler almost
independent of the king, a man who might presume with the proper knowledge to claim a glorified
future life similar to that of the king.  And, indeed, we find from the burial inscriptions
of the Middle Empire that such was the result.  Feudalism extended the possibilities of heaven
to the great nobles.  In the New Empire, the royal power was gradually absorbed by the priestly
organization of the national religion-- the religion of Amon-Ra; and the principle comes into
practice that any priest having the necessary knowledge could obtain for himself an exceptional
place in the future life.  The Osirian burial customs spread even among the people.  The swathed
body extended on the back becomes universal, even though true mummification was still only
for the rich.

In the Ptolemaic period, the preparation of all the apparatus of the Osiris burial was divided
up into trades.  Factories, one may say, turned out mummy cases of various kinds, with a scale
of prices to fit every purse.  Other factories turned out amulets and charms.  Magical texts,
the preparation of the body, the construction of the grave--all things were done by regular
crafts.  The cheapening of the apparatus is most striking.  At the same time all but the poorest
burials bear direct evidence of their character as Osiris burials.

On the side of the moral requirement we must not look too closely.  There were powerful words
which could compel even the great judges of the dead to return a favorable verdict.  There
were magic hearts of stone which might be worn in place of the heart, and, laid in the scales
by Anubis, weigh heavier than the truth.  One might by words compel Anubis to accept this stone
heart instead of the real heart.

In general, one may say that the hope of immortality had little influence on the moral life
of the ordinary Egyptian.  The moral code was simple and sound and not greatly different from
other primitive codes,--forbidding all those things which the body of men regard as unpleasant
in others, commanding the plain virtues which were found pleasant in others.  Here, again,
I think we may well look to modern Egypt for a picture of ancient Egypt.  We must not exaggerate
the influence of the belief in immortality on general morality. If you will hear, and not cry any more,
i will tell you what i saw and heard one summer afternoon over by the pond in the meadow. Weasels
are still sly very beasts, although if captured when very young they can be tamed, and taught to
eat away of their seigneur's hand. You cognize it is a little green pond, and that afternoon the
water was very so that it looked like a glass eye in the midst of the
great small meadow.

I sit down on the bank to rest, and to watch the reflection of the
bushes and tall water-grasses which overhung the pond.
They offered immortality by initiation.  Learn the proper rites, learn the master words, and
secure eternal life among the great gods.  It was a religion for the exceptional man down to
the last; it required training and knowledge.  Even in its most popular form in the Ptolemaic
period, a specially instructed class was required, who sold for money the benefits of their
knowledge, and men took rank in their security of future life according to their means.

Not until Christianity came, offering eternal life free and without price, did the common people
find at last a road open to equal immortality with the great men of the earth.

