Following this, are copies of the muster-roll of the Borough company of militia; the official
account furnished for publication by the magistrates, warden and burgesses (pp. 24-32); and
a letter from Capt. Amos Palmer, chairman of the citizens' committee of defence, to Mr. Crawford,
secretary of war, containing a concise narrative of the action. Philip Freneau's Battle of
Stonington,--though not of the highest order of lyric excellence,--challenges favorable comparison
with many of the loyal effusions which have found their way to the public, during the present
war; and will be welcomed as an old friend by some who value patriotism more than poetry. 
T.

   Hartford, Conn., July 28th, 1864.

THE DEFENCE OF STONINGTON.

[From the Conn. Gazette, Aug. 17th, 1814.]

RECORD OF THE EXTRAORDINARY ATTACK ON STONINGTON.[1]

                                        NEW LONDON, AUGUST 17, 1814.

On Tuesday the 9th instant, at 5 P. M. the Ramilies, 74, Pactolus, 38, a bomb ship, and the
Dispatch, 22 gun brig, arrived off Stonington, and a flag was sent on shore with the following
note--

                                "On board his Majesty's Ship, Ramilies,
                                                    Stonington, Aug. 9.
TO THE MAGISTRATES OF STONINGTON.

Gentlemen--One hour is allowed you from the receipt of this communication, for the removal
of the unoffending inhabitants.

                                                     THOMAS M. HARDY.[2]

This notification was received by two magistrates[3] and Lieutenant Hough of the drafted militia,
who went off to meet the flag. The officer was asked whether a flag would not be received on
board. He said no arrangements could be made. They inquired whether Com. Hardy had determined
to destroy the town. He replied that such were his orders from the Admiral, and that it would
be done most effectually.

When the gentlemen reached the shore, a crowd waited with great anxiety for the news; which
being stated, consternation flew through the town. An express was despatched to General Cushing,[4]
at New London. A number of volunteers hastened to collect ammunition; others ran to the battery,
which consisted of two 18 pounders and a 4 pounder, on field carriages, with a slight breast
work, 4 feet high. The sick and the aged were removed with haste: the women and children, with
loud cries, were seen running in every direction. Some of the most valuable articles were hastily
got off by hand, others placed in the gardens and lots, or thrown into wells, to save them
from the impending conflagration. The sixty minutes expired, but the dreaded moment did not
bring the attack. Nelson's favorite hero and friend was seized with the compunctions of magnanimity;--he
remembered what ancient Britons were; he remembered that something was due to the character
of Sir Thomas M. Hardy. Three hours in fact elapsed, when at 8 in the evening the attack was
commenced by a discharge of shells from the bomb ship. Several barges and launches had taken
their stations in different points, from whence they threw Congreve rockets, and carcasses.
This mode of attack was continued incessantly till midnight; and the fire was returned occasionally
from the battery, as the light of the rockets gave opportunity with any chance of success.

