"At any rate," remarked Pencroft, "it is well understood that if we do leave Lincoln Island,
it will not be because we were uncomfortable there!"

"No, Pencroft," replied the engineer, "it will be because we are far from all that a man holds
dearest in the world, his family, his friends, his native land!" Eighty and two
years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after the Candelaria, why what I wanted to live
or what had been lost here? A man who served the King twelve years that for forty-five had been
stung thousands of thousands of tons of stone on these roads of God, and that was always well regarded
and puntoso, had nothing to do and, more to entrust the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much
land over, and pack it. In quantitative placed the two creatures, would lie not rise until
the day of Judgement in the afternoon ... And rise last! Pierced with grief upon hearing the
reference Benina so much misfortune, whose sincerity could not put into question, said the old man
to take her to where the child was ill, and soon was conducted to a room dark, on the ground
floor Large house corridor, where they lived together, for the payment of three pesetas a month,
average dozen beggars with their offspring. Most of these complained bitterly at the time in
Madrid, looking for the holy bitch. Benina saw only an old, petiseca and sleepy, it seemed drunk,
and a potbellied female, swollen, vinous, tight skin, like a corambre filled with the face Erysipelas,
poorly wrapped in cloths of different colors. On the ground, on a thin mattress covered with pieces
of yellow cloth and tattered blankets Morella, lay the sick girl, about six years, the pale
face, clenched fists in the mouth. "What has this creature is hungry - Benina said, who, having touched
on the forehead and hands, found it cold as marble.

- Maybe so, because hot thing has not come into our bodies from yesterday.

"

No longer needed a kind old lady, that it overwhelms the piety, which flooded mighty your soul and
bringing to reality his intentions with the speed that was her property, was at once to the grocery
store in the corner of that building there, and bought you need to get a pot immediately, also
taking eggs, coal, cod ... because she never did things by halves. At the time, and were remedied
those unhappy and others were added, the smell induced across the bottom of the hive soon spread.
And the Lord had to reward his charity, department, among the beggars attended the banquet,
a cripple with no legs, walking with arms, that he gave him true news of the lost order Almudena.

Moor
slept in the homes of Ulpian, and he spent the day praying hard,
and playing a guitar with two strings that Madrid had brought all
this without leaving a section dunghill, which falls below the flea
season, at the bridge looking towards Segovia.

There he was Benina slowly, because the person who guided journey was slow, as one who walks
with the buttocks bound in soil, on hands, and these in two billets of wood. By the way, the man
from the waist upwards ventured some indications criticism of the Moor, and somewhat bizarre
behavior. He thought that was Almudena cleric in the land, wants to say, priest of Zancarrón,
and in those days was the majometana penance of Lent, which consists of giving heels in the
air, eat only bread and water, and moisten palms with saliva. "What the harp sings hoarse should be
a matter of funerals there, because it sounds sad and mourn feel like hearing it. In short,
madam, there you have it lying on the carpet of peaks, and so still it seems who have turned
to stone. "

Distinguished, in fact, Benina the motionless figure of the blind, in a landfill, slag, rubble
and garbage, which is between the road and the path of Cambroneras amid absolute aridity, for neither
tree nor bush, nor any plant species growing there.

He went on the despernado, and Benin, with his basket on his arm, crawling up the heap, not without
difficulty, for he loose material that formed was the slope, slipped easily. Before winning could
the height at which the African was, loudly announced their arrival, saying: "But, son, go to
a site that has been to choose to put the sun! Do you want to dry off, and become leather drums?
... Eh ... Almudena, who am I, who am I going up these carpeted stairs! ... Chico, but what?
... Are you stupid, you asleep? ".

The Moroccan did not move, her face turned toward the sun, like a piece of meat would toasting.
Tirole the old one, two, three stones, until he got hit.

Almudena moved with trepidation, and his knees, cried: "B'nina, you B'nina.

- Yes, my son: here's this poor old woman, who comes to see the wilderness
where you dwell.

Well has not given you bad gust of wind! And that does not cost me a little work to find you!

-
B'nina! - Excitedly repeated the blind child, who was revealed in
a flood of tears, and the shaking of hands and feet -.

You vinir sky.

- No, son, no - said the good woman, and arrived with him, and giving slaps on shoulder -. Not
come from heaven, but I go to these cursed land crags. What an idea that has given you poor
Moor! Tell me, what is your country like that? ".

Mordechai did not answer this question, silenced them.

The blind man felt it with his hand trembling as if seeing it for the touch.

"I came - said the beggar at the end - because I thought, a guess,
you'd be starving.

- Did not eat me ...

- Do you do penance?

You could have put in a better place ...

- This micor ... Mount
Bunite.

- What a mountain!

What do you call this?

- Mount Sinai ... Me to be Sinai.

- Where you are is in the clouds.

-
You vinir with angels, B'nina ... vinir you with fire.

- No, son,
do not bring fire or necessary, that enough achicharradito're here.

You're being drier than a cod.

- Micor ... I want to dry ... and burn like paix.

- In straw you
would become if I let you.

But do not leave, and now you eat and drink I bring in my basket.

-
Did not eat me ... squieleto me to be.

"

Without waiting for more reasons, Almudena spread his hands, touching
the ground.

He sought his guitar, Benin saw and picked up, two-stringed strumming intemperate.

"Dami, dami! - Said the blind impatient, inspiration hit."

And grabbing the instrument, struck the strings, and got them sounds sad, Broncos, without harmonic
coherence between them. And then began to sing in Arabic a strange chant, accompanied with dry
and rhythmic sounds that drew the two strings. Benina heard this Cantici with true devotion,
for though it told him nothing of the lyrics and guttural extremely rough, or the cadence of
similarity are found here styles, it is that such music was an intense melancholy. Constantly
moving the blind head, as if to lead the words of her song to different parts of the sky, and
set in Lays some vehemence and enthusiasm burning denoting that he was possessed.

"Well, son, well - the old woman said when she finished singing -. I really like your music
... But the stomach does not tell you that he does not catechins
with these songs, and that you like best good lean?

- Eat your ...
me singing ... I ate with you the joy of being me.

- Do you feed
it with me here?

Bonita substance!

- Me wants you ...

- Yes, son, love me, but please realize that I
am your mother, and I come to take care of you.

- You be Bunite.

-
Mia I pretty ... more years of San Isidro, and this misery and this
fascist!

".

No less inspired talking than singing, Almudena said, "You be the
zucena com, branca ... D'Com palm desert belt of yours ... casmines
roses and mouth you ... the evening star thine eyes.

- Mary!

I had not yet learned how beautiful I am.

- Donzella tudas, envy of you had them ... Regocijación Hiciéronte
God hands.

Loan you angels with harp.

- San Antonio blessed!

... If you wish to create all those things you must do me a favor eat what you bring. After you
have filled your belly talk, now you're not in your right mind. "

Saying, was taken out of the basket bread, tortillas, canned meat and a bottle of wine. Listing provisions,
believing that this will awaken the appetite, and as the final argument said: "If you insist
on not eating, I get angry, and not be back again to see you. Say goodbye to my mouth of roses
and my eyes as the stars of heaven ... And then you have to do everything that I command you:
Come back to Madrid, and live in your house as soon as you lived.

-
If you marry me, this yes ... If not married, no.

- Do you eat or
not eat?

Because I have not come here to waste time by lying sermons - said
Benina displaying all the energy of her accent -.

If you insist on fasting, I'm going now.

- Eat your ...

- Both.

I come to you, and have lunch together.

- Casar thou me?

- Oh really heavy man! You look like a boy.

I will be forced to give you a couple of punches ... Ha, Moor, eat and feed, which will be discussed
at the wedding. Do you think I'm going to take a husband dry in the sun, which is lagging like
a scroll? ".

With these and other reasons persuaded him, and finally stopped the
unfortunate to be squeamish food.

Beginning with Repulgue, eventually devouring voraciously.

But he did not leave his subject, and in between bites, said: "I tigo Casar ... terra Dirna mine
... I married for arreligión yours if you want ... Arreligión you marry for me, if you want
it ... Me be d'Israel ... Baptism jacieron confirencia me ladies
... Put my name Joseph Marien Almudena ...

- José María de la Almudena.

If you are a Christian, talk to me no other arreligiones bad.

- Not have more than one God, one, only he - said the blind man, possessed of mystic exaltation
-. He melecina to the brokenhearted ... He stars count number, and by them tudas name calling. Adonai
love animals and Tuda cuatropea, and the bird-wing ... Alleluyah! ...

- Well, yes, now let us sing Alleluia to not hurt us food.

- Voice of Adonai on the water, on water mochas. The voice of Adonai with forza, voice Adonai with
jermosura. Adonai's voice breaks the Alarza of Lebanon and as fixed Tsion unicorns ... The voice of
Adonai short flames, face D'desert tremble, tremble Farah Adonai Kader D'desert ... The voice of
Adonai face adoloriar deer ... In his palace that tudas Grolier. Adonai settled by the flood
... Adonai bless her with peace puelbro ...».

Even continued reciting prayers in Hebrew fifteenth century Castilian, which from memory retained children,
and respect Benina heard him, waiting to bring it ended to reality
and subject to the common life.

They talked a while about the desirability of making to the Inn of
Santa Casilda, but he seemed not willing to please extremely important,
while not giving her word to accept his black formal hand.

He tried to explain the attraction that, in the state of his mind, he exerted on the crags
and tailings in arid at that time was. Actually, he knew not explain or understand Benina but
attentive observer may well be a glimpse into this strange fondness a case of atavism or feedback
to the old instinct, seeking the solitude geographical similarity rocky in the beginning of
the life of the race ... Is this nonsense? Maybe not.

XXIX

With all his wit and mischief could not convince the old Moroccan
opportunity Madrid turning to the high.

"I do not know - he said using all the arguments - I do not know how are you going to fix you
to live in this mountain of your penance. Because you do not ask, here one has to bring you the
pea, except to me, and I, if now I have some money soon I'll be without a speck, and I will
have to order it with shame. Do you expect you here dropping your mana?

- Yes manj Cader - Almudena replied with deep conviction.

- Trust that ... But tell me one thing, son: Will there be money buried here?

- Have mocha, mocha.

- Well, son, see if you take it out, which in this case would not
waste time.

But quia! I do not think me that you count potatoes or witchcraft that you've brought your
land of infidels ... No, no: there is no salvation for the poor, and that removing treasures,
or bring it one the truckloads of precious stones, it seems to me that it is conversation.

-
If you marry me, this I find treasures mocha.

- Well, well ... Then get to work for the investigation of where the barrel filled money. I will
come to draw with, and as true, to marry touch. "

Saying, collected in your basket leftovers to go. Almudena opposed it was so soon, but she insisted
on retiring, the firm he spent on all occasions "Then it would be good for me to stay I'm
here, put the sun and the air like a coat in the dryer Tanners! And tell me, Almudenita: are you
going to keep me here? And my wife, who keeps the peak? ".

This reference to the home of Mrs. Mordechai awakened the memory of the gallant Bunite, and as
excite more than usual on this occasion, hastened to soothe Benina the news that Ponte had
already left their aristocratic palaces, and that neither she nor her mistress Dona Francisca wanted
to try and brush with sly old man who had given them a poorly paid, farewell to the French, and the
boarding was a duty. The African Tragose this ball with childlike innocence, and promise and
swear by her friend that day to see him again While he continued
in that obligation of its bitter penance, let him go.

Was Benina above, preferring to go to the station, as output more comfortable and practical.

Back
home, the first thing his wife was asked if he knew when he returned from Guadalajara D. Romualdo,
to which she replied that no news had yet to secure the return of sir. Nothing occurred worthy
of note that day, but quickly improved Ponte, putting very joyful with the visit of Obdulia,
which spent four hours talking with him and his mom of fancy things, and Ronda events forty years
earlier in the present era. It should be noted also that he was undermining Benina money because the
child ate there, and it was necessary to add stuffing hake regular, plus dates and pastries
for dessert. With the expense of those days, with the prodigality charitable Cambroneras,
harsh which subtracted from the loan Pitusa after pressing debts paid off, they would reduce for
hours to get into one, or so, the day of the third escape from the suburbs Toledo Bridge.

It is ascertained that thing that third trip he was met by the old man of the day above, who called
Silverio, and went with him, formed in line of battle, others wretched inhabitants of those
humble villages, leading interpreter despernado man, expressing with ease, as if this ability
to compensate them by Nature horrible mutilation of his body. And he went and said, on behalf of
the guild of beggars who was present, the lady had to distribute its benefits to all without distinction,
since all were equally creditors to the fruits of his immense charity.

He answered with naive simplicity Benina she had no fruit or anything that deal, and that was
as poor as them. Welcomed these expressions with utter disbelief, not knowing the disabled
to oppose them, because all his oratory had been consumed in the first speech, addressed the old
Silverio and said they had not fallen in any nest, and in clear view was that Mrs. was not
what it seemed, but a disguised lady, with traces and beggar's rags point it was on those sites
deaminating true poverty and remedying it. Concerning this the costume had no doubt, because
they knew it years ago. Ah! and when he came, the other Once, Mrs. disguise, everyone was relieved
as well. While he and others remembered face and such modes, and could testify that was the same,
the same as at the time his eyes were seeing and feeling with their hands.

Confirmed with one voice told by the octogenarian Silverio, which had to add that by saint was taken
before the lady, and blessed to have this, respecting his disguise, and putting all their
knees before it and worship it. Benina answered cheerfully was so holy that she and her grandmother,
and they looked what they said and turn from their grave error. Indeed, there had been years
ago, a lady very Nobleman, called Doña Guillermina Pacheco, beautiful heart, great spirit,
which wandered in the world delivering gifts charity, and wore modest dress, without offending
decency, revealing his modesty sovereign the class to which he belonged. That most worthy
lady was no longer living. For being too good for the world, God took her to Heaven when we
need done around here. And although live, masters, How could it be confused with it, with the
unhappy Benina? A hundred leagues are known at this to a village woman, maid service. If his
suit very poor, full of patches and darned, for his broken sandals, they did not understand the
difference between a cook and retired Marquis born a woman, because this dress could well mask
other things there was no deception or mistake, for example, in speech. Those who heard the word of Doña
Wilhelmina, which was expressed as the angels, how could they be
confused with who said things in ordinary language?

She was born in a town of Guadalajara, Parent tenants coming to Madrid to serve when he was only
twenty years. He read difficulty, and writing was so bad, I just put his name: Cassia Benina. For this
name, some wags its people made fun of her saying it was from Santa Rita. Total: she was no
saint, but very sinful, and had nothing to do with the Doña Wilhelmina of yore, that was already
of God. It was a poor as they were, living on alms and are governed as he could to support his family.
Tell them God made generous, yes; and if something had, and found that she needed people,
could not wait to get rid all ... and so happy.

Convinced they did not give the miserable, left hand of God, and reaching their own emaciated,
with distressed voices calling to cassia Benin succor them. Ragged
and emaciated children joined the chorus, and clutches at the foot
of the unhappy Pascuala, you cry for food, bread. Sympathy with many
misfortunes, was the old to the store, bought a dozen loaves high,
and dividing into two, the split between the miserable crew. The operation
was complicated in the extreme, because they all rushed to her with
fury, each would receive their share before anyone else, and someone
tried to rip off two servings. It would seem to be double those hands
at the time of most contention, or leaving others underground. Suffocated,
the good woman had to buy more books, because two or three old women
who did not touch anything put the outcry, and rattled the neighborhood
with their discordant and plaintive cries. Besides;
question Pencroft and Herbert. They saw it as I saw it myself, and they will confirm my words."

In consequence, therefore, a few days after, on the 25th of April, in the evening, when the
settlers were all collected on Prospect Heights, Cyrus Harding began by saying,--

"My friends, I think it my duty to call your attention to certain incidents which have occurred
in the island, on the subject of which I shall be happy to have your advice. These incidents
are, so to speak, supernatural--"

"Supernatural!" exclaimed the sailor, emitting a volume of smoke from his mouth. "Can it be
possible that our island is supernatural?"

"No, Pencroft, but mysterious, most certainly," replied the engineer; "unless you can explain
that which Spilett and I have until now failed to understand."

"Speak away, captain," answered the sailor.

"Well, have you understood," then said the engineer, "how was it that after falling into the
sea, I was found a quarter of a mile into the interior of the island, and that, without my
having any consciousness of my removal there?"

"Unless, being unconscious--" said Pencroft.

"That is not admissible," replied the engineer. "But to continue. Have you understood how Top
was able to discover your retreat five miles from the cave in which I was lying?"

"The dog's instinct--" observed Herbert.

"Singular instinct!" returned the reporter, "since notwithstanding the storm of rain and wind
which was raging during that night, Top arrived at the Chimneys, dry and without a speck of mud!"

"Let us continue," resumed the engineer. "Have you understood how our dog was so strangely
thrown up out of the water of the lake, after his struggle with the dugong?"

"No! I confess, not at all," replied Pencroft, "and the wound which the dugong had in its side,
a wound which seemed to have been made with a sharp instrument; that can't be understood, either."

"Let us continue again," said Harding. "Have you understood, my friends, how that bullet got
into the body of the young peccary; how that case happened to be so fortunately stranded, without
there being any trace of a wreck; how that bottle containing the document presented itself
so opportunely, during our first sea-excursion; how our canoe, having broken its moorings,
floated down the current of the Mercy and rejoined us at the very moment we needed it; how
after the ape invasion the ladder was so obligingly thrown down from Granite House; and lastly,
how the document, which Ayrton asserts was never written by him, fell into our hands?" I can not, no ... My conscience revolts ...

- Let the riots, that we are here troops. Or you take away the pesetilla, or me anger, as God
is my father. D. Bottle, do paperwork, you're more beggar the inventor of hunger. Or do you
need more money, because it has more to Bernard? In this case, I can not give it, because I
have not ... But do not be lilac, D. Bottle or is made of honey, which the Lizard of Bernarda eat it
alive, if not charged forty. For a customer like you, of the aristocracy, not denied housing
because they need a pose, three nights, four nights ... Frasquito Plántese good, with a hundred
thousand pairs, and will Bernarda how bends the ears ... It gives you four real account, y.
.. to pour sleep peacefully on the bed.

"

O Ponte was not convinced, or convinced of how good it would be for him the possession of the
peseta he hated the physical act of reaching out and receiving alms. Strengthened his argument Benina
saying: "And since the child is so shy, and does not dare to her
employer, even giving account of the singing, I will speak to Bernard,
I would say that does not fight, nor rush ... Come on, take what you
give, and no more cold blood me, Mr. D. Bottle.

"

And without giving him time to make further protests and negative, took her hand, put it currency,
cerrole force fist and ran away. Ponte made no move to return money, or throw. He remained standing
and silent, watched as the vision Benina vanishes in a flash of light, and keeping in his left
hand the peseta, with the right took out his handkerchief and wiped
his eyes, he cried horribly.

Cried irritation senile eye, and also of joy, admiration and gratitude.

Benina still took over an hour to reach the Imperial Street, passed because before that of
The Ruda to do their shopping. These had to be on credit, because he had concluded money. Ended
up in his house after two hours is certainly not untimely: other days had come later, but this
is the angry lady. Depended on being right or wrong received from the streak of humor that Doña Paca
picked up at the time of entry. That afternoon, Unfortunately, poor Mrs. Ronda was one of its most
violent irritability crisis nervous. His genius was sudden eruptions, sometimes determined by
any setback small, sometimes by mysteries of the body difficult to appreciate. This is that
before of Benin through the door, threw the Dona Francisca dash: "Do you think they are these hours
to come? I have to talk to D. Romualdo, to tell me when to salt your home ... I bet you now you
pick up the lie that you went to see the child, and you had to feed him ... Do you think I'm an idiot,
and I believe your lies? Shut your mouth ... I do not ask explanations, neither need, nor
I, you know that believe anything you say, liar, tangled '.

Aware of the nature of the lady knew that the worst Benina system against outbursts of anger
was contradicting explanations to give, open up and defend themselves. Doña Paca not admit reasoning,
and thoughtful they were. The more logical and fair were the clarification
the contrary, she sulked more.

Not infrequently Benina, innocent, had to file guilty of the offenses alleged against the
lady, because doing so would calm down soon.

"See how I have right? - Continued the lady, who when put in such a state, was of the more unbearable
than you can imagine -. You shut ... by silence, grants. Then it is true what I say, I am always
aware ... It is what I thought: you have not gone home Obdulia, and that's the path. God knows
where you've been ping. But do not care, I'll find out ... Keep me here alone, dying of hunger!
... What a morning I've actually happen! I've lost count of those who have come for the shops peppers,
amounts that have not already paid your disorder ... Because the
truth, I do not know where You put you the money ... Responds, women
... even defend yourself, that if everything you give no answer, I
seem to still tell you little.

"

Benina humbly repeated the above: that it had completed later at the
home of D. Romualdo, that D. Carlos Trujillo, entertained the sea
of ​​time that had gone after the Calle de la Cabeza ...

"God knows,
God knows what you've done, correntona, and what sites you've been
... Let's see, to see if you smell a wine.

"

Smelling breath, broke into shouts of disgust and horror: "Remove, take off there, drunk. You reek
of brandy.

- I have not tasted, ma'am, I can believe. "

Doña Paca insisted that in those crisis situations became his suspicions, and his stubbornness forged
his conviction.

"I can believe it - repeated Benina -. I have not taken more than a glass of wine that gave me Mr.
de Ponte.

- I 'is giving me a bad feeling that M. de Ponte, who is an old fox
and green and very rascal.

Kind, as the plants you too silent ... Do not think you fool me,
hypocrite ... After aging, it gives you the solution, and litter of
brown peaks.

What things come, Lord, and what derangement drag the damn service! ... You shut up, then it
is true. No, if even I deny not convince me, because when I tell you one thing, it's because I know ...
I have I ...». eye

Without giving time for the offender to explain, came by the following record:

"And you tell me, woman? What made you welcome my relative D. Carlos? What? Is good? Do not burst
yet? No need to say anything because, as if it had been me your secret
behind a curtain, I know all that talk ... Do not I right?

Well I'm telling you what happens to me is my damn habit of not keeping
accounts.

No one will PASA of that folly. To each his own theme, the folly of my relative is to fix everything
with numbers ... Has enriched them, robbing the Treasury and the parishioners, and with them
wants to life to save his soul, and the poor, we recommend the medicine of the numbers that
it does not save him or us any good. With what success? Was this what you said?

- Yes, ma'am. Looks like you were hearing.

- And after crush with that gibberish of debit and credit, has given you a handout for me ... Ignore
my dignity rises up to receive it.

I see him as he opened the drawers wants and does not want to take the taleguito in having
the bills, hiding to avoid being you could see, I see him rubbing the pouch, store carefully, I
see you turn the key ... And very dirty off-hook with a crap.

I can not specify the amount he has given you for me, because it is so difficult to anticipate
the calculations of avarice, but of course I assure you, without fear of contradiction, that
has not reached the forty dollars. "

The look on his face Benina hearing this can not be described. The lady, carefully watched, pale,
and said after a brief pause:

"It's true: I've run a lot.

Forty, no, but even so stingy and mean it man, there will be dropped from twenty-five dollars. Less
than that will not admit it, Nina, I can not admit.

- Madam, you are delusional - said the other firmly planted in reality -. Mr. D. Carlos has not given
me anything, which is called nothing. To begin next month give you an allowance of two dollars
per month.

- Liar, swindling ... Do you think me fool me with your clutter? Well, well, I do not bother me ...
I have worsening account, and I am not to take tantrums ... Understood, Nina, understood.
There you will understand with your conscience. I wash my hands and leave it to God give you
your due.

- What, ma'am?

- Join now simple and Marirramos kitten. Can not you see me immediately
and I guess calo your fabrications?

Come on, woman, confess, do not try to add to infamy deception.

- What, ma'am?

- Well, you've had a bad temptation ... Confiésamelo, and I forgive you ... Do not want to declare?
For the worse for you and your conscience, because you bring out the colors in the face. Want
to see?

For twenty-five drives that you gave to me D. Carlos, you have given to this Frasquito Ponte
to pay their debts, and go to lunch, catering, and buy shirts, ointment,
and a stick again ... You see, you see, bribonaza, how everything
you guessed it, and me not worth your concealment.

If I know more than you. Now you have been given to protect the deli Tenorio, and I want more
than me, and he now serves me no, and you feel sorry for him and me, how much you want, damned me.
"

Mrs. broke to mourn, and Benin and answer felt like such impertinence
giving lashes like a crafty child, seeing the compassion tears.

I knew that crying was the completion of the cholera crisis, sedation of access, rather, that
such happened, it was best to let the laughter, bringing the dispute
into the realm of delicious mockery.

"Yes, Mrs. Dona Francisca - said hugging -.

Did you think when they had gone that boyfriend as sorcerer and as salt shakers had to leave
me in need, without giving hair?

- Do not think you fooled me with your little jokes, swindling, flattering ...-- said the lady,
and unarmed and defeated -. I assure you I do not care what you did, because the money Trujillete
I had to take ... I'd rather die of hunger or stain my hands with
him ... Give, give it to whoever you want, ingratona, and leave me
alone, let me die I missed you and around the world.

- Neither you
nor I will die so soon, because we still give a lot of war - he said
maid, preparing with great care to feed.

- We'll see what crap you
bring me today ... Show me the basket ... But, daughter, do not you
ashamed to bring to your loved these filthy scraps?

... What else? Cauliflower ... I have already plague-stricken with your cauliflowers, they
give me fart, and I am repeating three days ... In short, what we
in the world than to suffer?

Dame soon these comistrajos ... What brought you eggs? And know that not happened, and not very
fresh.

- Eat what you give without grumbling, that putting so many objections to the food that God da,
is offended and aggrieved.

- Well, my dear, whatever you want. Eat what you have, and give thanks to God. But like You too, I'm
sorry to see you so busy, desviviéndote for others, and forgotten yourself and your body relief.
Sit with me, and tell me what you did today. "

In the afternoon, ate two, sit-to kitchen table. Doña Paca, sighing all his soul, between bites
another, expressed in this way the ideas bubbling in his mind:

"Tell me, Nina, among so many strange things, incomprehensible, what's in the world, what would
be a medium, a form ... I do not know how to say, a spell by which
we could spend from scarcity to abundance, by which all that the world
has a place in many hands greedy, come to ours who have nothing?

-
What does the lady?

What if it could happen in the blink of an eye go from poor to rich, and saw a mean, our house
full of money, and everything God created?

- That I mean. If miracles are true, why is not the case one for us, that it We deserved what
we got?

- Who says it does not happen, we do not have this outcome? - Said Benin, in whose mind emerged
suddenly, with strong relief and extraordinary plasticity, the spell Almudena had taught him to
seek and obtain all the goods of the earth.

XX

Thereby took possession of his mind the idea and images expressed by the blind African that point
was to tell her mistress the wonderful method of plotting and to bring the King baixo terra.
But fearing that the secret would be less effective the more you disclose, contúvose in his
loquacity, and only said it could be that of the overnight tuck them through the gates of fortune.
At bedtime with Doña Paca, for sleeping in the same room, thought
everything was a potato Almudena, and take it more seriously of nonsense.

He wanted to sleep, but could not, he turned his mind to give entertainment to the idea, thinking
it might be carrying, and if efforts made by waste more tenaciously the mischievous idea he
got into the brain.

"What is lost by trying it? - It was said, wrapping up in bed -. May not be true ... But and
if it were? There were many lies then truths became fists! ... For what that's me, I'm out
to try, and tomorrow, with the first money I take, buy the lamp of clay, without speaking.
The story is that I do not know how to treat an item without talk ... Anyway, I'll make the
deaf ... Then look for the stick, even without speaking ... I need to teach the Muslim prayer,
and I learn it without a verb ...». escape me

After a brief sleep, woke up believing strongly in the parlor next had a Seret large basket or
very large, very large, filled with diamonds, Rubilar, pearls and sapphires ... In the dark
room could see nothing, but that those riches were there was no doubt.

He took the box of matches ready to light, to recreate your eyes on the treasure, but not wake
Doña Paca, whose sleep was very light, left to morning the examination of so many wonders ... After
a while, soon to laugh at his enthusiasm, saying: "Well, I'm not little purple! ... It is too
early to bring this ...». At dawn, awoke to the barking of two white big dog came out from under
the bed, felt the doorbell, he fell to the ground and ran in his shirt open, secure calling a gentleman
of the King assistant or a long beard and dressed in green ... But there was nobody; there was no
living thing on the door.

Arreglose to leave, having breakfast the lady, and taking the first scan to home, and at seven and left
with his basket on his arm and Imperial Street. As he had no cent or where he came, he went to San
Sebastian, thinking down the road in D. Romualdo and his family, since both speak of those gentlemen,
and both comment and describe them had come to believe in its existence. "I'm gill Go! - They
said -. I to this invention D. Romualdo, and now it seems to me that is a person EFET and can
help me. There is no D. Romualdo the begging blessed, and that I, and see if you drop something,
with permission Caporal. " The day was good to get him, and said Pulido was the first funeral
and wedding in the sacristy. The bride was the niece of a minister pleniputenciano, and the groom
... thing newspapers.

Benina took his place, and was released with two cents who gave a lady. Its companions tried to
sing it for what he had called D. Carlos, but only answered with evasions and half-words. Casiana
Assuming that Mr. Trujillo had tried Sena Benina with the leftover food to give your home, treated
her with courtesy, no doubt by calling the party.

At last thing the funeral was not subdivided further, and if the bodorrio were run something
else, went so pobretería other quadrants, and there was such a din and confusion, which took
about five, and others stayed in albis. Seeing out the bride, so dolled up, and Ladies and gentlemen
of his company, fell upon them like a cloud of locusts, and the sponsor I squeezed his coat, and
he even muss his hat. Labour cost the good lord shake the terrible plague, and had no choice
but to throw a handful of pennies in the yard. The more agile made a killing, the most awkward crawled
avail. The Caporale and Elisha trying to impose order, and when the bride and groom and all the support
they got in the car was near the church miserable mob, grunting and kicking. Dispersed, and again met
with swirls buzzers. It was like a riot, defeated by his own fatigue.

The last shot was, "You fucked more ... I have removed mine ... here there is no decency ... how
rogue ...».

Mockery, that was the most they swipe, missed toads and snakes of
his mouth, attracting the minds of all the crew against Caporale and
Elisha.

Finally, Police intervened, threatening to pick you up if not silent, and this was like the
word of God.

The intruders made off, the house got into the passage. Benina took all Day campaign, including
funeral and wedding, 22 cents, and Almudena, 17.

Casiano and Elisha were said to have taken peseta and a half each.

When he retired Moroccan together blind and Benin, lamenting his evil shadow, ended, as before,
to the Plaza del Progreso, and sat at the foot of the statue to deliberate
about the challenges and drowning that day.

He no longer knew which saint entrusted Benina: with the alms of
the day did not have to start because Eral forced to pay some deudillas
establishments in the Rue de la Rue, to sustain the credit and power
trick few more days.

Almudena said to him that he was in absolute inability to promote it; the most he could do
was give the dogs in the morning and at night so take could the rest of the day, asking in its
usual place, street of the Duke of Alba, along the Civil Guard barracks. He rejected the old
woman's generosity, for he too needed live and feed, to which said the Moroccan coffee with
a bread crumb on the Cross Rastro, had enough to pull up the night. Loath to accept the offer,
raised Benina avert the issue of the King of baixo terra, showing trust and faith that easily
be explained by the great need it was. The mysterious stranger and seeks his proselytes in the
realm of despair, inhabited by the souls who find solace anywhere.

"Right now - said the poor woman - I want to buy things. Today is Friday, and Saturday morning
do the test.

- Compressed you things, let alone ...

- Of course, without saying a word. What is lost by doing the test? And tell me another thing:
Why has be precisely at midnight? ".

The blind man answered yes, saying the rules and conditions necessary for effective spell,
and tried to fix Benina everything in your memory.

"I know - he said at last - that'll be all day in the fountain of the Duke of Alba -. If I forget something,
I'll be asking you, as I teach prayer. Now that I must be hard to learn, especially if I put
it in Christian language, what is in yours, son of my soul, I do not know how to compose myself
for not wrong.

- If you quivoquiar, King not vinyl. "
Discouraged with these difficulties, separose Benina of your friend,
I had to hurry gather some bitches to complete what the obligations
of that day needed, can not expect anything and credit, began to ask
at the corner of the street San Millán, next to the door of the cafe
of the Naranjeros, pestering passers with the story of their misfortunes:
they had just left the hospital, her husband had fallen a scaffold,
which had not eaten in three weeks, and other things that left their
hearts. Something was fishing the unhappy, and had caught something
else, if not look like a fucking there chilli that enjoined to take
her to the basement of the prevention of America, if not Long cool
wind. Ocupose then buy the gadgets for the spell, company sick cumbersome,
because everything had to be made by signs, and went home thinking
it would be great difficulty making the devilish sorcery there but
found out the lady. Against this had not recourse but to include that
D. Romualdo had been very ill, and leave velarle night, going home
Almudena ... But the presence of Petra could be an obstacle: the danger
that a witness preclude incredulous thing, added the serious drawback
that, if successful happy, the drunks would appropriate all or part
of treasures donated by the King ... Certainly better than precious
stones, which would bring him everything in common, or in bundles
of bank notes, secured with a rubber band, as she had seen in the
exchange houses. Because ... was not having to go loose pejiguera
the silverware to propose the sale of many pearls, sapphires and diamonds
... Finally, it bring as give them the win: it was a matter of cavil
or require many perendengues.

Dona Paca found in an ill temper, because
it had seemed at home in the morning, a clerk Store and insulted Tell
them brutal and vulgar expressions. The poor lady was crying and hair
pulling, pleading with his faithful friend plowing the land in search
of the few drives that were needed to tirárselos to face the beast
of a shopkeeper and racked Benina brains to find the solution to the
terrible conflict.

"Woman, by compassion, runs, invents something
- I said the lady, a sea of ​​tears -. For chances are friends. The brig was a good sailer,
for she approached rapidly. Neb and Pencroft put off their departure, therefore, and the glass
was put into Ayrton's hands, that he might ascertain for certain whether the ship was or was
not the "Duncan." The Scotch yacht was also rigged as a brig. The question was, whether a chimney
could be discerned between the two masts of the vessel, which was now at a distance of only
five miles.

The horizon was still very clear. The examination was easy, and Ayrton soon let the glass fall
again, saying--

"It is not the 'Duncan'! It could not be!"

Pencroft again brought the brig within the range of the telescope, and could see that she was
of between three and four hundred tons burden, wonderfully narrow, well-masted, admirably built,
and must be a very rapid sailer. But to what nation did she belong? That was difficult to say.

"And yet," added the sailor, "a flag is floating from her peak, but I cannot distinguish the
colors of it."

"In half an hour we shall be certain about that," answered the reporter. "Besides, it is very
evident that the intention of the captain of this ship is to land, and, consequently, if not
today, to-morrow at the latest, we shall make his acquaintance."

"Never mind!" said Pencroft. "It is best to know whom we have to deal with, and I shall not
be sorry to recognize that fellow's colors!"

And, while thus speaking, the sailor never left the glass. The day began to fade, and with
the day the breeze fell also. The brig's ensign hung in folds, and it became more and more
difficult to observe it.

"It is not the American flag," said Pencroft from time to time, "nor the English, the red of
which could be easily seen, nor the French or German colors, nor the white flag of Russia,
nor the yellow of Spain. One would say it was all one color. Let's see: in these seas, what
do we generally meet with? The Chilean flag?--but that is tri-color. Brazilian?--it is green.
Japanese?--it is yellow and black, while this--"

At that moment the breeze blew out the unknown flag. Ayrton seizing the telescope which the
sailor had put down, put it to his eye, and in a hoarse voice,--

"The black flag!" he exclaimed.

And indeed the somber bunting was floating from the mast of the brig, and they had now good
reason for considering her to be a suspicious vessel!

Had the engineer, then, been right in his presentiments? Was this a pirate vessel? Did she
scour the Pacific, competing with the Malay proas which still infest it? For what had she come
to look at the shores of Lincoln Island? Was it to them an unknown island, ready to become
a magazine for stolen cargoes? Had she come to find on the coast a sheltered port for the winter
months? Was the settlers' honest domain destined to be transformed into an infamous refuge--the
headquarters of the piracy of the Pacific?

All these ideas instinctively presented themselves to the colonists' imaginations. There was
no doubt, besides, of the signification which must be attached to the color of the hoisted
flag. It was that of pirates! It was that which the "Duncan" would have carried, had the convicts
succeeded in their criminal design! No time was lost before discussing it.

"My friends," said Cyrus Harding, "perhaps this vessel only wishes to survey the coast of the
island. Perhaps her crew will not land. There is a chance of it. Do you earn and thrive day laborers, five or six that are of real wages, use two or three
came and one in snuff, perhaps hunger killing their wives and children? "Win's husband, weak
or vain, who insists that his wife has a box at the Opera? Do you earn, in short, which do not
save, which consumes more than it produces, which on income its capital spending, which has the
ability to acquire ten and need to eat thirty or a hundred? Of course, not wins, but loses, and finally
broke. And what happens individuals, can not happen, rather it is with the nations? Just as
there are individuals low ability to produce and very able to spend, there can be, and no nations
with the same qualities? Laziness, waste and incompetence, "can not occur in a nation as given
in a guy?

I do not fear any European nation, no matter how fraught it is for the above ailments, come at
last to be lost and destroyed, as were destroyed and lost those colossal empires the center of Asia,
as those powerful civilizations collapsed, wonder of the world old. I do not fear to Madrid,
Seville, Lisbon or Florence, you will come to pass Sidon and Tyre that, Susa, Ecbatana, Nineveh
and Babylon Bactra. Although consume much more of what they produced, the punishment would be
limited to long periods of forced abstinence and pitiful plight, that the delay in relation
to other peoples of Europe were higher, and to continue dragging and dropping like a trailer
the other nations. But such is faith I have in progressive virtue, in the vital energy of
European civilization I can not even conceive that a nation that is dying in her womb powerful
and exhilarating. However, the withdrawal of which we spoke, the troubles, going to the trailer
and shame backwardness and inferiority, they are still tough punishment.

To discourse, from a fixed point on these issues so difficult, should first explain why certain phenomena
which offers modern European civilization, phenomena it seems contrary to everything that in ancient
civilizations was noticeable, whence there now comes the award, given by axiomatic, and are
entirely contrary to other sentences that little has passed through also axiomatic.

In the old, and in the old saying do not go very far (Michael Montaigne and Machiavelli thought
so), rudeness and poverty was thought that gave impetus to the nations and nerve while wealth and
culture of the enervated. Alejandro was poor and rich beat Darius poor and rough were subjugated
by the Romans and the enlightened, educated and wealthy kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria and Egypt.
When the Goths invaded Greece, reports that tried to burn all libraries, but a clever and discreet
captain of the Goths had to persuade them to libraries were effeminate Greeks, docks and cowardly,
and that this was appropriate leave the books to have them always under the yoke. In this way the
libraries were saved.

Nowadays, however, if a nation decided to undercut another, seek make ignorant and poor. Science
and wealth, far from thin people today, give them energy and strength, but things well considered, there
is the slightest contradiction in it. In the old, once one of the most common means of acquiring
wealth to the strip neighbors through war. On this day, although these remains, these violent robberies
continue to be, not made in such a grand scale. Milder manners do not agree. The war, moreover,
this mode of stripping violently one nation to another, has become tired expensive. Production
costs in modern warfare tend to be much greater than what is produced, if produced can be called
what it takes against the will of its owner. Hence, first Instead, they hardly undertake any
war and the purpose of enriching, and second , that rich people are those who have more means
to the war and probability of winning. Before, the people are strong and warriors were so
rich; on the day the people get rich in order to be strong and warriors. No doubt will develop
more, when people get rich just to be more moral, happier and more enlightened, but this is still
far. The mania to dominate and prevail over other not be cured in many centuries.

Today not a few authors argue, Buckle and others, as celebrated throughout
the world, that Political Economy conspires an irresistible way to
end the bloody wars, to that utopia of perpetual peace come to be.

For this, no doubt, and for other reasons no less singular, have become so crazy extreme admiration,
adoration and fanaticism of Political Economy. For Buckle, Adam Smith has done more for humanity
than all wise, all prophets and all the immortal geniuses who are born mother and that have human
flesh covered in this naughty world. Neither the laws of Solon, Numa and Manu or all books of
philosophy, or the Gospels themselves, compared with a damn Wealth of Nations. According to Buckle,
the Wealth of Nations is "the most important book who has ever written, its publication has
contributed most to the happiness of the human lineage that talent gathered from all statesmen
and all legislators, who keeps us remember the story a real thing. "

All this may be true, but it is also true that since the year 1776, which came to light for
the first time the book divine Savior, Redeemer and peacemaker, wars have been so frequent as
ever and a thousand times more frightening by the millions of men
in them have perished miserably.

When there is no war, there is a bad thing, perhaps worse than War: armed peace. Money spent
foolishly in maintaining huge armies, and strong men, young and strong in Europe, away from
all useful work are provided with weapons in hand, stalking, spying and threatened. True Economy
Politics and the wonderful book by Adam Smith have not been remedied so wrong. If anything
of remedying it, must be the philosophy, religion better understood than in other centuries,
and the very excess of evil, which might end up make it impossible.

The means of destruction are increased by such art that it is feared that soon may in a minute
kill millions of men, can be fired in a second more bombs, bullets and shrapnel than a century
has skyrocketed in thirty or forty years, and such and so loud shots
may be that the cost of one is sufficient to maintain for a whole
year family.

Spending so much horror and so much bloodshed, the politicians cry, and cry and many, even for
peace and disarmament, not because Adam Smith and his disciples the been convinced. I do not
think that Napoleon III has the heart of butter and jelly; but the awful spectacle of the battlefield
of Solferino, so many thousands of corpses, had to be worrying and the heart, deciding to peace,
even before their promise to free Italy to the Adriatic. Adam Smith and all his theories were not
any part in this determination.

If any economic thinking prevent war or make more difficult in coming, is independent of science:
it is not necessary to have read by economists to conceive. Thought is simple and clear: it
is the thought of how much the war costs. Governments also almost always have to resort to borrowing
to make war.

Those who lend money have an interest in the money provided is grown as possible, So, even without have
other causes, the role of low debt and have the public wealth.

Those who have to lose, the rich men are, therefore, peaceful, and as those with money rule the
day more than ever and have a very large influence on opinion, is that wars are condemned by
public opinion, when there is a strong encouragement of selfishness
that induces them, as, for example, opening a new market for domestic
products, introduced in some countries the freedom to worship little
trade, divine works of Adam Smith, opium or other drugs worse, guns
and bayonets, entertain and recreate and intoxicate the people with
glory so as not to annoy and to rise up, and perhaps disposal, following
the doctrines of an economist, of that part of the population is more
than enough, which is not covered prepared at the feast of life, that
disturbs or breaks the balance that must exist between the output
and consumption, including still and livelihoods.

Besides material and bloody war, has taken in our days that never again rise war brings to
humanity infinite goods, and takes on wings, not by the way real progress, but for a trail
or shortcut. But, as there is no shortcut without work, this another war, which is the industrial
and commercial, fearing disturbances arise, hard conditions, horrible and heartbreaking disappointments
ruins. Does not concern me explain this or do here satire as being of modern societies. I
refer the reader to the Socialists, children legitimate economists and their more cruel and bitter
adversaries. Even the Economy Policy had no greater sin than to have raised their breasts to
socialism could not be acquitted altogether. Moreover, socialism, except that today is just an
outbreak, a desideratum, an aspiration, is, according to some, that
is, it will be with respect to the empirical and pedestrian Political
Economy, which are sublime mathematics with respect to the four rules
of arithmetic.

Social science or sociology tell yourself (and ridiculous hybrid word!) is yet to be invented,
but otherwise the positivists hold. The trouble is that problems that this science has been raised
and not resolved, and criticism bold, intelligent and destructive that has been wavering faith
in the existing social order, have all filled with men suspicion, within each state, assuming always
that violence may occur to resolve the intricate problems of the newest science, to break off
their foundations throughout the building society to rely on other better and stronger. Hence
the not there is only war or armed peace between them and other States, but war or armed peace
that is, constant danger and surprise, within each state. In all which does not appear to been
remedied political economy, but came to worse.

Do not believe the discreet reader will not know what to say to my ramblings in this paper.
At the restaurant he called him an excuse meditation, meditation and being on such a vast and so
on all matters such as money. To be discussed in depth, and clarity, order and convenient method, I
would have been necessary to write a thick volume. But why, I say, you have chosen such a vast
subject, when not writing thought this thick volume, but a newspaper article? To which I answer:
a lack of money the public distress, the plight of the Treasury, the laments I hear everywhere, the
showing some hope that economists will save us, the little confidence warn others in the effectiveness
healthy economists, discreteos of all, means that many proposed, converted into an official,
to lead a safe haven, and the various explanations given about the causes of serious problem
affecting all me with irresistible vehemence has led to meditation and discourse on these issues,
in which I confess I have little or no knowledge.

But considering me as vulgar, profane, I still believe that, if not useful, at least could be entertaining
and interesting to expose him that ponders the vulgar, which Alamba and rambles on the subject.
So I have been echoed faithful of the vulgar in this meditation, embellishing it with some moral
judgments drawn from reading of the philosophers. Do not be surprised, then, that I did not
try anything, I do not conclude anything not chair a dominant thought throughout this letter
of mine.

I fear making me dilate heavy, but I can think of several comments that I have value to pass in
silence.

This is the first that, in the present state of civilization, and still am about to say that
always, not what happens to nations with individuals, which, as stated above, can be sages,
saints and poets and poor. A nation, if intelligent and active, holy, by wise and heroic and
poetic it is, must be rich too. If you become poor, gives sharp and clear signals that it
is unwise, or that is not active, or that have secular disease that has failed to heal.

It said, in 1629, the Padre Fray Benito de Peñalosa and Mondragón, in a curious book which gave
the picture that Spain is very Catholic and very monarchy, and have
three other excellence more, causing its depopulation and ruin.

Buckle says the same thing, in perfect Consistent with the Father Peñalosa, who has guessed
and unread.

Our religious and our love and loyalty to the kings have brought us so lost and so backward. In
contrast, Buckle according to the same in Scotland and there has been great prosperity and
progress. There, although also have the misfortune to be on religious, have had the good fortune
and excellent quality of being very disloyal to their sovereign.

The Scots, says Buckle, have waged war on almost all their kings have
been beheaded several, have killed others, and have even sold one
of them, a certain amount of money they much needed.

The wisdom of the Scots has earned them the prosperity and progress, and above all the glory
of Adam Smith that El Salvador is born between them.

The strange doctrine set out above, identical in Buckle and Peñalosa, can not be refuted or
censored with irony. It is necessary to dispose of them seriously. Not a matter of derision.
No. wealth and prosperity and culture do not go to the people, because people leave God and
kill or sell their princes.

In an individual, perhaps the goodness and excellence of character have been an obstacle to fortune:
in a village, we do not want or believe. Therefore, if Spain is poor today backward fault, not
his virtues, but of his vices, not of good quality, but bad.

Dan other because of our backwardness and our poverty of aridity and soil infertility, offers a
few resources, but even that aridity and sterility that were true, as a nation does not live
in the soil, but the ingenuity and industriousness of their children, could not this need to
be the origin of evil.

In past centuries and in these countries there were and are famous people who have flourished
in sterile soil. The attic floor is an example of this, and Thucydides attributed sterility
which there came to form such a glorious and prosperous state, because
in the early Greek civilization, the men fled the fertile land invaded
or continuously infested with thieves and pirates, and they came to
take refuge in Attica to be protected from the ravages and devastation.

Venice, which was so powerful and America also had a similar origin, and was founded by people
in a runaway gaps the barbarian invaders of Italy. Scotland it will be all colorful and cute
you want, but no one agrees that no course is sterile, no doubt, more sterile than Spain. The same
can be said of Holland and many other countries, if they depart from the imagination that have
already made to improve the art and ingenuity.

Thinkers have to go to the extreme, and attribute the dream or real inferiority of our civilization
to the abundance of maintenance and ease of life for poor people. This is said to loosen any
spring of action and that makes people weak and prone servitude, while in countries where
people have had to fight hard and overcome great obstacles to earn a living, after the wins
and lives, is more dignified and energetic, and less experienced in any kind of yoke and clamp. They
may eg assertion of India and Egypt, and is not to deny that they are examples that have the force.
Argue, also the cause of the backwardness of Ireland and humiliation have been the abundance
and cheapness of potatoes.

Have more reason, in my view, those who think so, that they attribute backwardness, stagnation,
or rather the ground of sterility, but I dare not to give the reason or some or other, and
especially in the case of Spain. I do not think that neither the climate nor the soil, or fertility,
or the exuberance of nature and its products are or have been among us as in India and in ancient
Egypt, nor are could never produce similar effects.

They say other thinkers, who think little, that all our evil comes from the bad governments. This
statement is unworthy of refutation. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are happy
and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire
for enjoyment, we chose not to work.

This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All men, and peculiarly
the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to eat turkey and scrambled
chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace, to live in a hut, and
going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there are cars, good cuisine
and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many other delightful objects,
nor is it necessary to have a very soul lifted to covet.

No one not ambitions. If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the
world's richest nations.

It follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean, who
are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all, because we do not spend
and spend without discretion and without splendor.


But Ayrton, without replying, wrenched himself from his grasp and attempted to rush into the
magazine. A shot fired into the midst of the powder-casks, and all would be over!

"Help, lads!" shouted Bob Harvey.

At his shout two or three pirates awoke, jumped up, and, rushing on Ayrton, endeavored to throw
him down. He soon extricated himself from their grasp. He fired his revolver, and two of the
convicts fell, but a blow from a knife which he could not ward off made a gash in his shoulder.

Ayrton perceived that he could no longer hope to carry out his project. Bob Harvey had reclosed
the door of the powder-magazine, and a movement on the deck indicated a general awakening of
the pirates. Ayrton must reserve himself to fight at the side of Cyrus Harding. There was nothing
for him but flight!

But was flight still possible? It was doubtful, yet Ayrton resolved to dare everything in order
to rejoin his companions.

Four barrels of the revolver were still undischarged. Two were fired--one, aimed at Bob Harvey,
did not wound him, or at any rate only slightly, and Ayrton, profiting by the momentary retreat
of his adversaries, rushed towards the companion-ladder to gain the deck. Passing before the
lantern, he smashed it with a blow from the butt of his revolver. A profound darkness ensued,
which favored his flight. Two or three pirates, awakened by the noise, were descending the
ladder at the same moment.

A fifth shot from Ayrton laid one low, and the others drew back, not understanding what was
going on. Ayrton was on deck in two bounds, and three seconds later, having discharged his
last barrel in the face of a pirate who was about to seize him by the throat, he leaped over
the bulwarks into the sea. "Come, Caledonia, put on your skirt new
you go home with booty. I will point in a piece of paper what I want to make no mistake. " Said
and done. What least had to ask the lady to face that day pomp, two roast chickens, four fried
whiting and a good piece of sirloin, with the help of fresh ham, egg yolk, and support a dozen
bartolillos? ... Hala!

Did not make the lady, with this announcement a refreshing meal, hold the imagination and will
of Frasquito that since he took the money he was eaten by a wild desire to go out Street,
running, flying, wings because he believed they were born. "I, madam, I have to do this afternoon
... I find it necessary to leave ... Also, I need to give me some air ... Feel and a little
dizzy. Exercise for me, believe me that I should ... Also urges me to my tailor many sightings,
but nothing more than to make me aware of fashion are now, and prepare to see some article
... I'm very difficult, and take long settle on this or other fabric.

-
Yes, yes, go on errands, but does not run a lot and see this happy
event, as I see it, a lesson that gives Providence.

For my part, I declare myself convinced of the are good order and arrangement, and make firm
intention to write down everything, absolutely everything I spend.

- And the income too ... So will I, ie I did, but I have not earned, it creates you, a friend
of my soul, that I have not earned.

- Taking certain income, the point is to accommodate the inputs to outputs, and not to exceed
... By God, dear Ponte, again do not to laugh at the barbarity of
balance and ... Now I know that Trujillo is right.

- More balance
I have, madam, I have hair on his head, and I tell you I would not
have been better than heat the ibid.

- Since God has favored us,
we ordered: I would venture to beg you, if no use for trouble and
go shopping, I bring a book of accounts, calendar, or is called.

"

For not so! Not a book, but half a dozen would bring Frasquito with all my heart, and so promising
it was launched into the street, eager to air, light, to see people recreate in things and
people.

Pull, walking mechanically, went to the Paseo de Atocha, unaware aware of it. Then back up
because he liked being among households than among trees. Frankly, we were unfriendly trees,
probably because, passing them in hours of despair, I thought they offered their arms to hang
herself. Penetrating in the streets with no fixed address, watched the tailor's shop windows
with display beautiful fabrics, the tie and smart shirt. I kept having a look to restaurants,
and generally to all stores in her long life of hardship embarrassing had watched with dismay.

Spent
in this happy few hours wandering without fatigue. He felt strong, healthy, and even robust.
He looked kind, or a breeze of protection, as many beautiful women or acceptable to his side passed.
A showcase of perfumery tone suggested a good idea happy: he had thrown his gray hair in an unbecoming
air without dressing and composing with black dye dissimulation,
and that beautiful store offered opportunity to remedy such serious
error, there inaugurating the campaign to restore its existence, due
to start for the restoration of his damaged face.

There changed since the first ticket ream D. give him Romualdo Kidron, after becoming present different
items, made provision abundance of those who thought most necessary, and pay without haggling,
ordered him to be brought to Francisca's house the bulky package drugstore purchases scented
and dye.

Leaving there, I thought soon to consider seeking a decent guest house and not too expensive,
appropriate to the pension which he enjoyed, because in no way exceeding its expenses. In the
bedrooms of Bernarda never return, unless it was to pay the seven nights due, and tell this truth.
And rambling and laughing making calculations, it was time in which the stomach began to indicate
that no lives only illusions. Problem: Where eat? The idea of ​​getting
into a good restaurant was soon discarded.

Present impossible made a type. Would you go, following the routine of their miserable times, the
tavern of Boto? O no! ... There had always been dyed. Sudden would miss seeing you in old age,
full of gray ... Finally, remembering that should the honest Boto a previous Piquillo comistrajos,
thought I should go there and match a timely payment to the trust the owner of the establishment,
giving the excuse of his serious illness, that very clearly in his face faded paint. His steps to
the street of Ave Maria, and went a little with embarrassment at the tavern, pretending to be sounded,
when crossing the outer part, to cover his face with his handkerchief. Strait and drowning
is that place for very church that he attends, attracted by the cheapness and good seasoning
of stews that there are released. At the tavern, properly said, not very large, is a narrow hallway,
which also has table with attached bench to the wall, and then stayed low and low roof which rises by two
steps, with two long tables on either side, with no space between them that the need for enter and
leave the boy who serves. In this part of the establishment is always put Ponte, believing
there more away from the prying curiosity and consumers, and occupied the gap-free table saw, if
indeed there was, as there were cases to be all complete, and the customers like sardines
in a crate.

That afternoon and night, slipped in the Interior Department Frasquito good luck, because there
was no more than three people inside, and one of the tables was empty. He sat in the corner
by the door, site very collected, which was not easy being seen from the public, ie from the tavern,
y. .. Another problem: what would it be? Ordinarily, the distressing state of their own money
forced him to be limited to actual stew with bread and wine represented a total expenditure of forty
cents, or serving as cod in sauce.

Either stuffing, with high bread, which used up the last crumb, comiéndoselo with broth and racioncita
of wine, offered adequate food and tasty. On certain days I used to change the stew by stew,
and on rare occasions, for the fricassee. Tripe, snails, meatballs and other junk, never tried
them.

Well, that night they asked the boy for a complete list of what he had, and appearing indecisive
as half-hearted person is not very inviting dish to whet your appetite, resolved by the fricassee.
"Did you hurt the teeth, Mr. de Ponte? - He asked the boy, seeing that he removed the handkerchief
from his face.

- Yes, son ... horrible pain. Do not bring bread high, but French. "

Frasquito front sat two who ate cooked in one large dish, serving two real and beyond in the
opposite corner, a man who slowly and methodically dispatched a portion
of snails.

It was truly such a machine to eat, because for each used a piece
invariably the same movements of the mouth, hands and even eyes.

He took the mollusk, which drew a stick, put it in his mouth, sucked after the Aguilla contained
in the shell, and in doing so ran a spiteful look at Frasquito Ponte, then left the empty shell
and grab a full one, to repeat the same function, always in time, with equal gestures and grimaces
to get the bug, and eat it, with equal looks: a sympathy for the snail at the time of catch,
another grudge against Frasquito at the time of sucking.

He spent time, and that man, his face and figure jimioso mean, still accumulate empty shells in
a pile that grew waned as that of the full, and Ponte, you had before, was beginning to worry
that the looks furious as mechanical figurine music box caught him at every turn to handle the high
shells.

XXXV

Ponte Delgado felt desire to live the kind that ask for explanations
for his look irrelevant.

The cause of this could not be other than the novelty Frasquito offered
to the public and paint stripping of his face, and the good gentleman
said: "But does it matter to anyone that I arrange or fails to fix?

I make my face as I please, and I am not obliged to give like the gentlemen, always presenting the
same face. With the old, as with the young, I know I respect and leave me well since my decorum. And
oppose the proposed cargantísimo look that point a look of contempt, when the snails, drained,
ate and sucked the last, and put the shell in place, paid the expenses, was placed in shoulders
the cloak, which fell from him, then put on the gorrilla, and rising went straight the faded
gentleman, and very good so he said: "Mr. Ponte, forgive me ask you a question. "

By the cordial tone of the individual, he realized it was an unhappy Frasquito, expressing these
way of looking at the complete opposite of what they are.

"You say ...

- Excuse me, Mr. de Ponte ... I wanted to know if you
do not take it amiss, if it is true Antonio Zapata and her sister
have had a legacy of tantismos million.

- Men, as well as of millions,
I do not think ... I'll tell you: my part in the estate, as also enjoys
Francisca Juarez, no more than a pension, which shall not know still
a fixed point.

But I can give you exact information shortly. Do you happen Are you a journalist?

- No, sir: I am a painter of arms.

- Ah!

I thought it was you who find these things to put in the newspapers.

- What I get is ads. For as the heraldic art is so on the floor, I dedicate the brokerage claims
and notices ... Antonio and I work in competition, and we become a terrible war. So, knowing
that Zapata is rich, I want you to influence him I transferred to business. I am a widower
and I have six children.

"

In saying this, putting in his tone so much sincerity and honesty well nailed in the face your partner
look like the murderer in time to take the blow to his victim. Before you answer Ponte went
on to say: "I know that you are friends family, and speaking with Mrs. Obdulia ... And by the
way: Doña Obdulia, or his mother, now they are rich, they want to
take title.

I that they take him away, for, as are the Grandee of Spain. Well, do not you forget me, Mr. de
Ponte ... Here's my card. I would compose the shield and the pedigree, and enforceable in ancient
letter, with initials in glitter, and lower prices than it would the painter painted. Can you
judge me models work I have at home.

- I can not assure you - giving much importance Frasquito said with a toothpick between the teeth
- take out a title or not to remove title. Spare them for this noble on all four sides, as well as
the Juarez, such as shoes, and the Delgados and Pontes, are lineage of most of Andalusia.

- The bridge Pontes have a vert on gules, and azure and gold quarters ...

- Truth ... For my part I will not take title, nor my heritage is so much for ... These ladies
I do not know ... Obdulia worth Duchess, and it is by the figure
and tone, but not decide wear the crown.

Of rightful Empress, as there is no God. Anyway, I do not get ...
Y aside heraldry, go to another thing.

"

In this, the snails had been sitting next to Frasquito, and its loss was watching the terror
of the patrons around them.

"Since you are engaged in the brokerage ads, could you tell me a good
house guests?

...

- Just today I made two ... Here I have in my portfolio for Fair and Liberal. Learn you ... Are
good: "lovely rooms, food to the French five-course ... thirty real
'.

- I should be cheaper ... fourteen or sixteen real.

- Also do
... Tomorrow I will give you a list of six at least, all confidence.

"

Cut off the dialogue the sudden appearance of Antonio Zapata, which came smothered, putting
noise, joking loudly with the property owner and several patrons. Uploader the inner room,
and pulling on the table wearing the voluminous book, and throwing hat back, sat next to Frasquito
and snails.

"Go one evening, gentlemen, what a week! - Said fatigued, and the boy who served he said -: do not
take anything.

I've already eaten ... My dear mother has gotten us into a chicken body my wife and me ...
Champagne and pulls up ... and bartolillos strip.

- Chico, who will now cough !...-- said the of shells, a kind word, looking terrifying -. And
it must soon give me a reason: I give in or I will not give in your business?

- Good got my wife when I proposed to work no more! I thought he bit me and drew me eyes. Nothing,
that will continue the same, it in your machine, I have in my ads, because that legacy will
not know how pathetic ... Ponte friend, do you know that farm of
Almoraima?

How much income will we?

- I can not say - said Frasquito -. I know it's a great possession, mountain pasture planting
land, mais ainda, the best place in Andalucia for quail, when they
to pass the Straits.

- There we go a season ... But my wife or God
pa I want to leave this job pathos.

Aguantate for now, Polidura, with my Juliana is not played: I have
more fear that a hungry lion ... And tell me, what have you done today?

... Ah! I do not remember, my mother wants to buy a spider ...

- A spider!

- Yeah, man, or for the dining room chandelier. He told me if you know of any good and showy, casting
...

- Yes, yes - said Polidura -.

In the auction of the street we have Campomanes.

- Other ... He
also wants to know if provided carpets and velvet carpet to good use.

-
That in the auction of the Plaza de Celenque.

I have it: 'All the furniture of a house. Hours, one to three. Pawnbroker is not allowed. "

-
My sister, who, incidentally, was gobbled half chicken tonight, what
you want is a Landau five lights ...

- Atiza!

- I have advised Obdulia
- Frasquito said with gravity - which do not have garages, which understand
with a tenant.

- Sure ... But do not give both the farmhouse pa pathetic.

Landau five lights! And pull he Burras Jacinto breast milk. "

Polidura burst out laughing, but noting that it tasted bad Algeciras those jokes, wanted vary
conversation instantly. The shameless Antonio Zapata Ponte was allowed to say: "Frankly, D. Bottle:
I believe you are the best.

- How?

- No bitumen. Nice figure and respectable old gentleman. Convince yourself that the dye does
not get you to look young, what appears is ... a coffin.

- Dear Antonio - Ponte replied by Repulgue with mouth and nose to hide his anger, and indicated that
was the joke - we like to scare old boys to ... to leave us in peace.

The boys of the day, wanting to know everything, know nothing ...».

The poor man, embarrassed, not knowing what to say.

Zapata emboldened their nonsense, which continued mortification:

"And now we are in funds, friend Ponte, the first thing you have to
do is retire the sarcophagus.

- What?

- The hat that you have for
the holidays, and that fashion is being spent when irrigation hanged.

-
What do you mean fashion?

"Hallo," exclaimed Pencroft as he rushed into the Chimneys, "hallo, captain! What do you think
of it, now?"

"I think," answered the engineer, "that the combat will now take a new form, for it cannot
be supposed that the convicts will be so foolish as to remain in a position so unfavorable
for them!"

"They won't cross the channel," said the sailor. "Ayrton and Mr. Spilett's rifles are there
to prevent them. You know that they carry more than a mile!"

"No doubt," replied Herbert; "but what can two rifles do against the brig's guns?"

"Well, the brig isn't in the channel yet, I fancy!" said Pencroft.

"But suppose she does come there?" said Harding.

"That's impossible, for she would risk running aground and being lost!"

"It is possible," said Ayrton. "The convicts might profit by the high tide to enter the channel,
with the risk of grounding at low tide, it is true; but then, under the fire from her guns,
our posts would be no longer tenable."

"Confound them!" exclaimed Pencroft, "it really seems as if the blackguards were preparing
to weigh anchor."

"Perhaps we shall be obliged to take refuge in Granite House!" observed Herbert.

"We must wait!" answered Cyrus Harding.

"But Mr. Spilett and Neb?" said Pencroft.

"They will know when it is best to rejoin us. Be ready, Ayrton. It is yours and Spilett's rifles
which must speak now."

It was only too true. The "Speedy" was beginning to weigh her anchor, and her intention was
evidently to approach the islet. The tide would be rising for an hour and a half, and the ebb
current being already weakened, it would be easy for the brig to advance. But as to entering
the channel, Pencroft, contrary to Ayrton's opinion, could not believe that she would dare
to attempt it.

In the meanwhile, the pirates who occupied the islet had gradually advanced to the opposite
shore, and were now only separated from the mainland by the channel.

Being armed with muskets alone, they could do no harm to the settlers, in ambush at the Chimneys
and the mouth of the Mercy; but, not knowing the latter to be supplied with long-range rifles,
they on their side did not believe themselves to be exposed. 

X

Well, sir, now tying the end of this story, I ate that day saying
that Mrs. with a good appetite, and as he took the food purchased
with hard-blind Almudena easily digested pious frauds that her maid
and companion he was getting into the body.

Had come to have such confidence in Doña Paca provision of Benin, who barely bothered Now for the
challenges of tomorrow, confident that the other had to overcome with the diligence and knowledge
of the world, won him much protection of the blessed D. Romualdo. Love and maid ate together and
table Doña Paca told him: "You should not spare the time these gentlemen, and if your duty is to serve
no more than twelve, if you ever want you're there in the afternoon, estate, woman, and I will
understand me here as I can.

- That's not - responded Benina - which is time for everything, and I can not miss here. They are
good, and take over ...

- Well they are known.

I ask the Lord to reward the good treatment they give you, and my biggest today would be happy
to know that D. Romualdo I made him bishop.

- Well, sounds like the run run they're going to propose, yes, ma'am,
Bishop not know how, beyond the islands of the Philippines.

- So far?

No, not that. Over here they have to leave to do much good.

- Same Patros think, you know? most of the nieces.

- Is that you've said has gray hair and squint a bit?

- No, this is the other.

- Ya, ya ... Patras is the stuttering, and suffers from tremors.

-
That.

He says that where they go for these seas so far ... No, no simple is better cure here, archbishop
there, where they say, are noon when here we twelve o'clock at night.

- In the antipodes.

- But the sister, Doña Josefa, said that come the miter, and is where God wills, she not afraid
to go to the end of the world, so to see the reverend in the position
it deserves.

- He may be right.

What do we do more than we will settle the Lord, if we are so far
in that amparándote to you, protects me, too?

You know God does, and could even be that what we believe was a poor well, and that D. good
Romualdo, to leave, leave us well recommended by a bishop here, or to own Nuncio ...

- I think so. Anyway, there we will see. "

It was not here the conversation about the imaginary priest, who knew Doña Paca and as if he had
seen and treated, forged in his mind a real type with elements descriptive and picturesque Benina
one day and another gave him.

But what else is pecked is in the pipeline to make room for things
of greater importance.

"Tell me, woman. And what does Obdulia?

- Nothing. What to tell the poor? Luquitas the crook does not seem that way two days ago. Ensures
the child will have money, they took a stuffed, and he spends it with a mort Bonetillo the
street.

- Jesus me excuses! And his father, what does?

- Reprimand, punish, if you are caught by hand. What is this and does not straighten. The girl
send him food from home of parents, but so rated, that does not reach
the tusk.

Would die starve if I did not take it took. Poor angel! Well, you see, these days I I found
her happy. You know the girl is. When there are more reasons for is happy, gets to mourn, when
it should be sad, is marketed as a lark. Only God understands that panpipes and how to tune it.
Well I have seen happy, yeah lady, and it gives good things to figure out. Better way. It is believed
that all what they make themselves into your head. Thus, they are happy when they should be
miserable.

- Well if you get on the other hand, help you to feel ... And she was alone, entirely alone
with the girl?

- No, Madam, there was this gentleman so fine that accompanies some
mornings, that is family of the Delgados, countrymen you.

- Ya ...
Ponte bottle.

Imagine if you will know. It is my land, or of Algeciras, which is
to be the same.

Has been elegantón and strives to be still ... I warn you it's because
older than a palm ... Good person, a gentleman of principle, and knows
how to deal with ladies such that it is unusual and, for now everything
is rude and impolite.

Ponte becomes a brother-cousins ​​of my husband because he married her sister ... In short, I do
not remember kinship.

Glad you treating my daughter, because you agree to this subject
relations dignified, decent and good position.

- For the position
of this D. Bottle it seems to me that is like that of which is mounted
air, as well as the bright.

- In my day was a bachelor who was given
a good life.

Had a good job, ate at home large, and spent the night at the Casino.

- As should now be poorer than a rat, for the nights they are passed
...

- Where?

- In the enchanted palaces of Bernarda Sena, Grande
Rue de Midi ... the house of sleep, You know

- What you tell me?

-
That Ponte sleeps there when he has the three real hard bed in the
bedroom first.

- You are upset, Benin.

- I've seen, ma'am.

Bernarda is my friend. Was what gave us those hard eight, You know when Mrs. had to get an extra
card, and pay to send this to Ronda.

- Ya ... which came every day to claim the debt and we would fry the blood.

- Same. As with all good women. We have called for justice, although we threatened. Others are
worse.

You know you're rich, and sleep six houses he has, not lower than forty thousand dollars it has earned,
yes ma'am, and all this has put in Bank, and lives of interest.

- What things look!

Well is the world ... To return to the gentleman Ponte, so they called him in Andalusia, where
as poor as you say, will pity him ... And you better so, because the reputation the girl might
suffer some, if instead of being such a wreck, a poor beggar Levite
was a possible suitor, though old.

- I believe - Benina said laughing,
as his condition was shown in quantitative jovial that cares Life
gave him a break - which goes beyond ... to embalm him ... Lack good
makes.

And hurry up, before it is corruto. "

Doña Paca laughed a little with those occurrences, and then requested information of the other family.

"When
children have not seen him today or yesterday - said Benina - but I've said Juliana anda running
now as the same fumes, because with this the trancazo, have gone many advertisers of medicines.
Think a lot of money and take it a newspaper, particularly Store things putting a guess, where
they sell this article or other item. The two twins look like two rolls of butter, but well cooked
and well cooked they cost, He loves all know when they begin eating, but not when it ends. The
Juliana told me to prove some of the carnage that has to send his
uncle the day of the saint, and also two sections of booties, of spoiled
in the shoe to where she stitched.

- It is good that girl - Doña
Paca said gravely - but so ordinary, that does not match or never
match me.

Your gifts offend me, but I thank you for the good will ... Finally, it is time for us to
go to bed. Well, I think it is half done digestion, prepare the medicine in half an hour. Tonight I'm
more full of legs, and very lost sight. Holy God, if I go blind! I do not know what this is. As well,
thanks God and I will view every day, without my eyes ache. I do not spend the night awake, thank
you, that everything goes through me, and wake up, I deleted things my legs and made of cotton.
I say: What has to do with the visual rheumatism? I send to wander. But where am I going with
this facade, no decent clothes, fearing bumping at every step with people who knew me in another
position, or with those guys and ordinary profanity to whom we owe any amount? ".

Benina remembered hearing this the most important thing I had to tell his wife that night,
and not wanting to leave to the last minute, fearing to be unveiled,
before they left the kitchen, and while again and picked up the few
pieces of china to scrub, no Francisca disdaining this under-served,
said in a tone more natural to use known:

"Ah!

I do not remember ... What a head I have! Today I met Mr. D. Carlos Moreno Trujillo. "

He remained suspended Doña Paca, and came near to it fell from his hands the plate was washing.

'D.
Carlos ... But did you say D. Carlos? And what ... Do you speak, you asked for me?

- Naturally, with an interest ...

- Is it really?

In good times you remember me such a miser, who has seen me falling
into poverty, to me, the sister of his wife ... Purita and Antonio
because my brothers were, you know ... and has not been to reach out
...

- Last year, a day like today, when she became widowed, sent
the lady a Socorrito.

- Six hard!

What a shame! - Doña Paca said, turning his anger and animosity and despite accumulated in his
soul for so many years of disgrace and scarcity -. My face put as it were fire. Six hard! Purita
and some rags, dirty gloves, skirts broken, and a suit of society,
ancient, from when he married the Queen ... What helped me those crap?

... Finally, you continue: I found it, what time, what site?

- It was about 0:30. He left San Sebastian ...

- I know who spends all morning from church to church, gnawing bases. You say to 0:30? For if at
that time were you serving lunch to D. Romualdo! ".

It was not Benina woman cowered by this fuck. His mind, so fruitful for the lie, and his memory
most happy to sort the lies he had told before to support and enforce
them of the new lie, took her out of trouble.

"But I said to you that when they had set the table, missing a bowl,
and I to go in a hurry to buy the Plaza del Angel, and Mina Espoz
corner?

- If you tell me I can not remember.

But how were leaving the kitchen just before serving lunch?

- For the lass that we do not know the streets, and also do not understand shopping. Had taken
a century, and brings a basin fixed instead of a bowl ... I was flying,
Patros while he stayed in the kitchen ... he understands, believe
me it means both like me or more ... Anyway, I found the old thing
of D. Carlos.

- But to go from street to Espoz Greda and Mina did
not have to go through San Sebastian women.

- I say he was leaving
San Sebastian.

I saw him coming there, looking at the clock on Canseco. I was in the store. The shopkeeper
came out to greet him. D. Carlos saw me, talk ...

- And what did he say? Tell me what you said.

- Ah ... I said, I said ... He asked the lady and children.

- Does
it matter to your heart of stone the mother or the children!

A man who has Madrid thirty-four houses, they say, as many as the age of Christ and one more,
a man has earned lots of money being smuggled gender, spreading to
the U.S. Customs and cheating half the world, cuddling cum now!

In good times, green sleeves ... We say that I despise him, I'm proud
of my misery others, if poverty is a barrier between he and I ...
Because this is not about the poor but with your account and reason.

Cree to delivering farthing alms and cheaply be provided by the prayers
of the humble, may deceive and defraud up eternal glory, or sneak
contraband into the sky, making go through what is not, as introduced
the lisle percale declaring a real and half the staff, to march false,
false invoices, false certificates of origin as well ... Did you say
that?

Say, have you told?

XI

- I did not say that, madam, nor had to do - said Benina saw that Dona Francisca was excited
too, and that all the blood at her face up.

- But you do not remember what you did to me he and his wife, who was also Alexander in fist. Then
when they started my disasters, took advantage of my struggle to do his business. Instead
of helping, they pulled the rope to strangle me sooner. I saw devoured by usury, and were not
offering me a loan in good condition.

They could save and let me die.

And when I saw I must sell my furniture, they bought from me for a piece of bread, golden
room chairs and silk curtains ... Were the lookout for bargains,
and lost me, threatened with foreclosure, of course ... presented
as saviors ... What I got for the San Nicolas de Tolentino, school
Sevillian was the jewel of the house of my husband, a picture he felt
more than his own life?

What gave me? Twenty hard Benina of my soul, twenty hard! As I took silly in an hour, and I,
who died of anxiety and shock, not knowing what I did. For a man Museum told me later that the
painting was worth less than ten thousand pieces ... You see what people! Not only true charity
is always ignored, but neither knew the delicate lining. From what we received from Ronda, buts,
piñonates and alfajores, we sent him a good Pura part. Then they met with a tray of sweets on
the day of San Antonio, and some kitsch bazaar on my birthday. D. Carlos was as freeloading,
almost every day dropped home at the time that drinking coffee ... And how it licked! You
know that your house is not was more than dishwater. And if we were going to play together,
eat at my box, always arranged so that Anthony bought tickets ... Of rudeness that used to
all the time our car, anything I say. And remember the same day that we adjust the sale of
the stalls, they were walking on it every bit of the afternoon, giving him a resounding ratatouille
the Castellana and Retirement. "

Benina refused to take the rope breaks and negative, because I knew that when was fired at that
issue was best left to give him every lap. Until we put Mrs. point, flushed and breathless, did not
venture to say, "Well D. Carlos told me to go home tomorrow.

- Why?

- To talk to me ...

- As if I saw it.

Want to send a charity ... Just: Today is the anniversary of the Pure death ... Get away with
any crap.

- Who knows, lady! You may be starting ...

- Is that?

I can already see that puts you in his hand a couple of pesetas or
a pair of hard, believing that this feature has to lower the angels,
playing violins and guitars, to praising his charity.

If I were you, refuse alms.

While we have our D. Romualdo, we can afford a little bit of dignity, Nina.

- Not in our interest

.


The hull of the "Speedy" was just beginning to issue from the water. The brig was lying right
over on her side, for her masts being broken, pressed down by the weight of the ballast displaced
by the shock, the keel was visible along her whole length. She had been regularly turned over
by the inexplicable but frightful submarine action, which had been at the same time manifested
by an enormous water-spout.

The settlers rowed round the hull, and in proportion as the tide went down, they could ascertain,
if not the cause which had occasioned the catastrophe, at least the effect produced.

Towards the bows, on both sides of the keel, seven or eight feet from the beginning of the
stem, the sides of the brig were frightfully torn. Over a length of at least twenty feet there
opened two large leaks, which would be impossible to stop up. Not only had the copper sheathing
and the planks disappeared, reduced, no doubt, to powder, but also the ribs, the iron bolts,
and treenalls which united them. From the entire length of the hull to the stern the false
keel had been separated with an unaccountable violence, and the keel itself, torn from the
carline in several places, was split in all its length.

"I've a notion!" exclaimed Pencroft, "that this vessel will be difficult to get afloat again."

"It will be impossible," said Ayrton.

"At any rate," observed Gideon Spilett to the sailor, "the explosion, if there has been one,
has produced singular effects! It has split the lower part of the hull, instead of blowing
up the deck and topsides! These great rents appear rather to have been made by a rock than
by the explosion of a powder-magazine."

"There is not a rock in the channel!" answered the sailor. "I will admit anything you like,
except the rock."

"Let us try to penetrate into the interior of the brig," said the engineer; "perhaps we shall
then know what to think of the cause of her destruction."

This was the best thing to be done, and it was agreed, besides, to take an inventory of all
the treasures on board, and to arrange their preservation. Truth who have gone to a better life. But I think I am watching ...
Were surrogates of Antrines Garcia, is not it?

- Yes, ma'am. I also tried them a lot.

They were friends of my house and I have very present them in my
memory ... I think I am seeing with his old cut black coat ...

-
So, so.

- Its sole neckties, and those hats that looked like the
tower of Santa Maria ...».

Continued the conversation with this vague fluctuation between reality and imagination, and
therefore Benina up the street, down the street, and with a clear mind, calm the spirit by possession
of a rate not less than three dollars and a half, I thought that all of tracamundana Almudena
spell was simply deceived fools. More likely to see success in the lottery, that is, more than
say, a work of blind chance, because who says that does not go through the air, an angel or a
demon invisible takes out the big ball, knowing beforehand who owns the number? Why things are
so rare: for example, that is distributed the prize among many poor people who came together
to that end, making this a real, the other one peseta. With such ideas came to think who would
give a share modest, as one tenth acquire it seemed to him many adventures. With his partner Petra
Fourth and kilo, which proved fortunate in almost all backgrounds, did not want bills, better
be understood for this business Polished mate begging in the parish, which had combinations
of moves that made lotteries in neighboring Burrero Obdulia; and to take her in his house before
she would go to ask, he quickened his pace towards the Street Head, and gave background on the
establishment of asses milk. In the stables of those peaceful beasts Pulido gave shelter to
the dairy honest, good people and humble. A Burrera sister of tickets sold on the streets,
and an uncle of Burrero, which had the same business in the same street and house, years ago,
the fat had been removed and retired to his people where he bought land. The crowd was perpetuated,
as in the establishment, habit forming vicious, and the date of this history, what had spent
in fifteen burreros years of plays, they could have won triple the asses they had.

Benina was lucky to find the whole family together, back the asses of his morning excursion.
While I devoured these bran, the sound is entertained in making calculations of probabilities, and
appraise the reasons could be found certainty that come out winning the next day 5005, which had a tenth.
Pulido, examining the case with their powerful inside view, that the blindness of the eyes prodigious
body is increased, clinched the conviction of the burreros, and in a prophetic tone told them so
true was that the 5005 award would, as there is a God in Heaven and the Devil Hell. Needless
to say that the claim fell on that stubborn Benina family as a bomb, and that the first impulse
was to deny all involvement at all seeking, because it was tantamount to give him lots of money.

Peaks
the beggar, saying that was three quarters to throw in a decimito, for her, and this bold stroke was
its effect.

Finally, it was agreed that if she bought the tenth, they would take him half, giving it a real
participation of two the magical 5,005, number safe, as safe as looking pregnant. This was done:
left Benin and took a little while one tenth of 4,844, which, seen by others, and heard singing
by blind, controlled the gang lottery throughout the greater confusion and bewilderment, as if
lucky mysterious art had passed from one to another number. Finally, made themselves the treatment
combinations to please everyone, and spread the papers Burrero participation the old staying
with six real in his and two on the other. Pulido went grumbling and went to his parish in
a bad mood, saying that this church had pocritona been to remove the lot, the burreros Obdulia
be ranted against, saying they paid bought bread and pots of flowers, and that the landlord was
going to plant in the street, and Benin went to see the girl, whom he found in the hands of the
hairdresser, who was trying to fix a pretty head. That day her in-laws had ordered meatballs and
marinated sardines; Luquitas had come home at six o'clock, and still slept like a puppy. Thought
the girl go for a ride, eager to see gardens, trees, vehicles, smart people, and hairdresser
told him to go to Retiro, where would these things, and all the beasts of the world and also swans,
which are a comparative, long neck geese. Knowing that Frasquito patient, was collected at the
home of Doña Paca, the girl was sincere grief, and wanted go see him, but took it off Benina
head. Better to let him rest for a couple of days, avoiding conversations delusions, which upset
the brain. Concurring with these discrete reasons Obdulia goodbye to her maid, persisting in
going for a walk, and the other olive-hurriedly took to the streets of Ruda, where deudillas
want to pay little money. Along the way he thought he should give up some of the excessive
amount spent on lottery and this order was intended to find the blind Moor for me to play a quarter.
Safer this was not the operation of calling the spirits Soterrana ...

This thought, when he found himself face to face with Petra and Diego, who came to sell, bringing
between the two, hand for hand, basket with ordinary notions trinkets. They stood with wanted
to tell you something wonderful and certainly the interest: "Do not
know, master?

Almudena the're looking for.

- Me? But I want to talk to him, see if he wants to take me ...

- It will take your measurements. That said ...

- What?

- That's furious ... Mad lost.

To me nearly killed me this morning of the dislike of me. Finally, the dislocation.

- Moved to Santa Casilda ... Cambroneras be.

- It has given the tarantaina, dancing on one foot alone. "

Burst into laughter the two sluts out of tune, and Benin did not know what to say. Understanding that
the African was ill, said he thought going to San Sebastian after her, to what replied the others
had not come to ask, and if the teacher wanted to find you, seek them Arganzuela toward or into
the street of the Rock, since in that direction they had seen little before. Benina to where
it was told him, briefly released in the street matters of Ruda, and after circling the brook
and up and down repeatedly Rock Street, saw the Moroccan, who left
the house of a blacksmith.

Came to him, took him by arm y. ..

"Release me, release me you said the blind man ...-- shuddering from head to foot, as if receives
an electric shock -. Poor you, winning you ... I kill you. "

Alarmose the poor woman, warning in the face of his friend very great
confusion: contracted and lips swelled with convulsive vibrations,
disfiguring his usual physiognomic expression; hands and legs trembled
and his voice was hoarse.

"What are you, Almudenilla? What fly has bitten you?

- Chop you me, fly bad ... Viner me ... I want to talk tigo. Bad Muqui be you ...

- We go where you want, man. If you think you're crazy! ".

Fell to the Round, and Morocco, knowing that land, led to the gas factory, carried away by her
friend by the arm. Passed by narrow paths to walk the Acacias, without the good woman could obtain
a clear explanation of the reasons that strange uneasiness.

"Let's sit here - Benina said upon reaching the tar factory -;'m cansadita.

- We do not ... more abaixo ...».

And they burst through a very steep trail, opened in the embankment. Had shot the two slope if Benina
not hold his moderating pace, and it sure where put the plant. They came finally to a place
lower than the ride, broken ground, full slags seem lavas of a volcano left behind homes, grounded
at higher altitudes the heads of them had roofs of homes before poor,
their lowest level feet.

In the riots of that hollow distinguished miserable huts, and far away, oppressed between the
moles of the Asylum of Santa Cristina and workshop Chainsaw, the neighborhood injuries, where
destitute families swarm.

They both sat down.

Almudena, taking snorts, wiped the copious sweat from his forehead.

Benina did not take his eyes, listening to his movements, as it did not have them all, seeing
alone with the mad Moroccan place so lonely. "Let's see ... masters ... to see why I'm so
bad and so misleading. Why?

- Poique you n'gañar me. I knowledge acquired you, you quiries other ... Yes, yes ... Lord
Bunite, cabaiero Beau ... you wanted him ... Weasel him home sick ... You bring him your house
... knowledge acquired yours ... knowledge acquired ... rich him, sir him ...

- Who told you these potatoes, Almudena? - Said the good woman, laughing with all his soul.

- Do not deny you anything ... Your n'fadar me you me ...». riyendo

By
speaking thus possessed of a sudden fury, rose, and before Benina
could sense the danger that threatened her, she burst upon the club
in full strength.

Thanks that could save the unhappy head apart strongly, but the shoulder, no. She wanted to snatch
the stick, but before that I tried got another whack at shoulder, and a third in the hip ... The
best defense was the leak. In a blink eye, the old woman was ten paces of the blind. It tried
to follow, she sought him turns, is placed in a safe place, and he vented his furious blows in the air
and soil. In one of these fell face down, and stood there as if it were the victim, biting land,
while the lady of his thoughts he said: "Almudena Almudenilla, if you lame see ... Tontaina, borricote
!...».

XXIV

After rolling on the floor with epileptic contraction of arms and
legs, and hit face and pulled by the hair, releasing guttural exclamations
in Arabic, which Benina did not understand, began to mourn as a child,
sitting as a Moorish style, and continuing in the job to pound on
the front and stick fingers in his face convulsed.

She wept with bitter disappointment, and the tears subsided without
doubt, its mad fury.

He approached Benina a bit, and saw his face flooded with tears that
moisten the beard.

His eyes were a source through which his soul was unloaded a stream
of infinite worth.

Long pause.

Almudena, plaintive voice of boy punished, affectionately called
her friend.

"Nina ... Amri ... "To be here with you?

- Yes, my son, here I am
watching you mourn as San Pedro after he did the dirty trick of deny
Christ.

Do you regret what you did?

- Yes, yes ... Amri ... Have you stuck! ... "Pain you mocha?

- I bet it stings me!

- I mean ... yorando me days mochas, poique paste you ... Amri, you
forgive me ...

- Yes ... forgiven ... But I do not trust.

- Take
your club - said extension - Come qui ... be me.

Take my strong suit and give up you have to kill me.

- I do not trust, no.

- Take thou this cochilo - added the African
interior bag drawing tool Reefer shear -.

Pa grocery store I hit you ... You kill me with him remove my life.

Mordechai did not want life ... death itself, death ...».

As one who does nothing, Benina seized two guns, stick and knife, and pulled without fear and
the unfortunate blind, put her hand on his shoulder. "I have a party bone, because it hurts
mocha - he said -. To see where I am cured now ... No, no broken bones there, but I have set up a
morcillones as my head, and arnica I spent this afternoon you have to pay me.

- I give you ... life ... Forgive me ... I months Yorar mochas, if you do not forgive me ... Be
crazy ... I want you ... If you do not want me, I kill them if he Almudena.

- Good going. But you have taken some curse. Go, get out now with that story of falling in
love Me! But do not you know I'm an old, and if you saw me you would fall back of fear did you?

- Not being old you ... I knowledge acquired you.

- You want to Petra.

- No ... B'rracha ... ugly, bad ... You be muqui a single ... Do not be another me. "

Without giving any respite to his intense grief, cutting words with deep sighs and continuous sob,
slow tongue to the utmost, Almudena said what I felt, and indeed that if Benina could understand
language so strange, it was not for the value and meaning of concepts, but by the force of truth
that the Moroccan put in their modulations very strange, howling, desperate cries and muffled
whispers. Told him that since King Samdai pointed to the single women, to follow him and seize
it, he went running around the earth. But the way, more women going forward, unable to ever achieve.
In time, believed that the fugitive was Nicole, which he spent three years wandering life.
But it was, soon saw it was not. His forward, always forward, and without being seen entapujadita
face ... Sure, he saw the figure in the eyes of the soul ... Well then, when he met Benin a morning
that was first introduced it in San Sebastian, led by Elisha, heart, wanting to fall out of the
chest, said: "This is, this alone, and no other." Most spoke it, the more convinced it was his, but
wanted to pass time, and Priebe better. Finally came the certainty, and he waiting, waiting
for a chance to tell her ... Thus, when told that the gallant Bunite Benina wanted, and that
he had brought home no less than by car, he became such a disappointment,
followed by dreadful fury, man did not know whether killing or kill
... The best would be consummated at a time the two deaths after having
sent for the other half of humanity the world, delivering blows to
right and left.

Benina heard with interest and pity this story, here given, not to tire, reduced to minimum proportions,
and as she was a woman of good sense, did not make the lightness
of conceited with that African passion, nor did irony for her, as
seemed natural, considering their age and physical condition of the
unfortunate blind.

Staying at a mean of discretion, looking only for an immediate end to his friend to calm down,
away from its mind the ideas of death and destruction. Beau Explicole what Bunite, trying to
convince that only a feeling of love Tell them moved to take him to the house of his mistress, without
that mediate it love, or anything concerning the relations between
man and woman.

He did not by Mordechai convinced that finally raised the issue in terms that justified the truthfulness
and firmness of his affection, namely that he believed what had just
told Benina, convenient that show him with deeds, not words, that
the wind blows.

And how do you prove it with facts, so he is fully satisfied and
convinced?

Then in a very simple: leaving everything, his wife, his house, trouser
Bunite, went to live with Almudena, and being together and the two
for life.

Replied the old woman not outright denial not excite you anymore, and simply introduce disadvantages
sudden abandonment of his wife, he would die if she is separated. But all these reasons, opposed
the Moroccan, others strengthened in the jurisdiction and laws of love they all overlap. "If you
want me, Amri, tigo marry me."

When you offer in your white hand, accompanied by a sigh of tender and squeamish shame, with their
enormous lips to the ears dilated or contracted form a monstrous snout, Benin could not help but
chuckle of derision. But holding back instantly went to the response to this discreet argument:

"Son,
so called because you could be ... I appreciate your finesse, but I have met repairs sixties.

-
Comply Failure to comply sisenta, milienta, I want you.

- I am an old woman who is useless.

- Served, Amri, I want you ... mais that light you Bunite; girl you.

-
What nonsense!

- Migo Casar trol, and Dirna Migo with you to my terra,
terra de Sus. My father Saul, rich him My Germans, they rich and my
mother Rimna rich Bunite her ... you want, you dicir daughter ...
Terra see mine: oiled mocha, orange mochas ... meat my father mochas
... mochas trees it is the river, big house ... d'fresh water wheel
... Bunite, neither hot nor cold. "

Although the paint slightly influenced
so much happiness in his mind, would not let seduce Benin and as a
practical person saw the disadvantages of a sudden travel to countries
as distant which would be among unknown people, speaking a language
of all the demons, and surely it would be differentiated by the customs,
religion and even clothing, because there they went to fixed-loincloth
... She would Bonita loincloth! Well, he could think about the good
things Mordechai! Showing affection and gratitude, I argued with the
disadvantages of rainfall in a matter as serious as getting married
of bat, and run a jump no less than Africa, which is, as one says,
where they begin the Pyrenees. No, no: you had to think slowly and
take time to not come up with a boob.

"Can the cannon support the shock of the pyroxyle?" asked the reporter, who was not less anxious
than Pencroft to try the artillery of Granite House.

"I believe so. However," added the engineer, "we will be prudent." The engineer was right in
thinking that the guns were of excellent make. Made of forged steel, and breech-loaders, they
ought consequently to be able to bear a considerable charge, and also have an enormous range.
In fact, as regards practical effect, the transit described by the ball ought to be as extended
as possible, and this tension could only be obtained under the condition that the projectile
should be impelled with a very great initial velocity.

"Now," said Harding to his companions, "the initial velocity is in proportion to the quantity
of powder used. In the fabrication of these pieces, everything depends on employing a metal
with the highest possible power of resistance, and steel is incontestably that metal of all
others which resists the best. I have, therefore, reason to believe that our guns will bear
without risk the expansion of the pyroxyle gas, and will give excellent results."

"We shall be a great deal more certain of that when we have tried them!" answered Pencroft.

It is unnecessary to say that the four cannons were in perfect order. Since they had been taken
from the water, the sailor had bestowed great care upon them. How many hours he had spent,
in rubbing, greasing, and polishing them, and in cleaning the mechanism! And now the pieces
were as brilliant as if they had been on board a frigate of the United States Navy.

On this day, therefore, in presence of all the members of the colony, including Master Jup
and Top, the four cannon were successively tried. And when you create one that is the last straw poverty, is that there are others more miserable,
because one takes to the street and ask, and give, and eat, and half a bagel is fed ... But those
who join the shame with the desire to eat, and are sensitive and thrive for request, the ones
that were possible and education, and will not stoop ... God, how unfortunate are! it will flow to kill
the bug ... If I have money left after giving him lunch, I see how I compose to take the penny
you need to pay cot tonight. But alas! no ... you'll need eight reales. Heart tells me that
last night did not pay ... and how that trust does not Bernard ordered more than once ... will
need to pay any account ... already know if you have two or three nights on credit ... No, but
I had the money, I would not give it, and although it offered, first slept in the open to catch
it these poor hands ... Lord, what, what things are seeing every day in this world so big
misery! ".

While the languid and scrawny Frasquito Obdulia talked joyful pleasant things, distant tired
of the sad reality. Since I saw her come to Providence, in figure Benin, the girl felt herself
calm your anxiety and shock, and the gentleman also breathed by the very happy occasion, and
was glad to see the birds conjured them by the day, a serious conflict of subsistence. Each other,
well-worn faded lady and leading man, had, in through its radical shortage, an inexhaustible
wealth, efficacious, almost mint, extracted from the mine of his own spirit, and though they
used the products of this venerable lavishly, the more you spend, more glut had their flows. It
was, therefore, this wealth on the faculty lovely detached from reality, when they wanted, moving
to a imaginary world, all bienandanzas, and such pleasures. With this divine faculty, if it
was not even warned, in many cases, enormous sufferings, because when they were deprived of
property absolutely positive, taken out of the imagination Amalthea's horn, and waved to see
out of it the ideal property. The strange thing was that Mr. de Ponte Delgado, having at least
three times the age of Obdulia, nearly exceeded in imaginative power, as in the decline of life,
was renovated in the flapping childhood.

D. Vial was what is commonly called a soul from God.

His age was not known, or in part have consisted, for he had burned the church record of Algeciras
where he was baptized. He had the physique of a rare privilege that could compete with conservation
of the mummies Egypt, which did not alter setbacks and hardships. His black hair is kept and abundant
beard, no, but with a little polish almost harmonized with each other. Spent hair, not the
romantic, disheveled and sullen, but those used to the 50, shiny, with a side parting, well
ahuecaditos tufts over the ears. Movement hand to cup the two strands and modeling in place,
was one of those bad habits physiological, second nature, they become part of the first. Well
with Melenita of kink and beard greasy and retinta's face was Frasquito Ponte they call childish,
not to know what expression of naivete and trust that you would see in nose girl, and her
eyes were lively and were already dying. Always looked tenderly, throwing the rays of sunset
amid gloomy clouds of the horizon of bleary tear, tab sparse, eyelid rough, large crow's feet.
Two assumptions stood out among many that were the pride of Ponte Delgado, namely the hair and small
feet. To the greatest tragedies to the most cruel and mortifying abstinence, had resigned; to wear
shoes that are too old or that would invalidate the perfect structure and the beautiful proportions
their little feet, did not have, no.

XVI

Exquisite art to keep the clothes do not talk.

Nobody knew how he found in eccentric portals economic disasters, which became a part shoestring no
one as he knew treat with care the perennial use clothing to defy the years, remaining in pure
wire, no one knew how he used petrol to clean the dirt, ironing wrinkles hand, stretch the cramped
and amend knee. What that lasted a top hat not for that. To find it would not be collating all
the chronologies of fashion, because by dint of being old wearing chisterómetro of the nearly
modern era, and this illusion the delusion that helped plush, as well smoothed with loving parental
care. The other clothing, if the hat matched in longevity, could not emulate him in the dissimulation
of years of service, because with so many twists and transformations, and many routes needle
passes and iron, and were but a shadow of what they were. A gabancillo summer clarucho, using
D. Bottle at all times: his garment was less inveterate, and he served for hide, closed to the
neck, everything else that had less than half of the pants. What was hidden beneath the garment
that only God knew Ponte.

Most harmless person I do not think has ever existed, most useless,
either.

That Ponte had not never served at all, as attested to his misery, impossible to hide in that
sad West of your life. Fortunilla inherited a regular, played some good destinations, and
did not care or family responsibilities, they froze in celibacy, first worship himself, after having
lost too much time looking for scruples and criteria too rigid a marriage of convenience, not found
or could find, with the goodies and perendengues he wanted. At the time there was still no word
corny, Ponte Delgado devoted his life to society, dressed with elegance affected often do not tell
the rooms, because then little used this name, but some good home podium and distinguished. The
actual rooms were few, and Frasquito, though in his old age was gala have entered them, the
truth was that neither knew the lining. In chat rooms haunting and attending dances, as well as
casinos and convention centers male Not to mention that out of tune, but neither was known for
his wit, nor for that noble blend correction and careless elegance which is true. Very estiradito
always, that yes, very attentive to his gloves, his tie, his small feet, it was pleasing to the
ladies no interest one, tolerable for men, some of which will truly estimated.

Only in our heterogeneous society, free from scruples and distinctions, that is the case a
hidalguete, holder of four homelands, or a medium-wage clerk was confused with Marquis and blue
blood counts, or the heroes of money, false centers elegance come
together and alternate operating the sumptuous life of their business
or their vanity, or by daring affairs, and those who go to dance and
eat and socialize with Ladies, no other object than to obtain recommendations
for promotion, or for a Head to miss impunity office hours.

Do not say this for Frasquito Ponte, the which was more than a fine ragamuffins times its
social heyday. Its decadence began to manifest itself in a noticeable way to 59, fought heroically
to 68, and to come this year, marking the destination table with very black line, desplomose
the unhappy lover in the depths of misery, to rise no more. Years before, ate the last remains
of his fortune. The destination with great difficulty could get Gonzalez Bravo, took it ruthlessly
revolution did not have unemployment, there was no able to save. The wretched abode without
income the day and night, and compassion some good friends who sat at his table. But good
friends died or were tired, and relatives showed no compassion. Starved, nakedness, deprivation
of all who had been his greatest pleasure, and so tremendous crisis, his innate gentleness
and self-esteem were as a millstone around the neck so soon sank and drowned: there was a
man able to pester your friends with requests for money, vulgar saber, and only in rare Sometimes
true critical cases or threat of death in the struggle with poverty, is ventured to reach
out to demand relief, magazine, yes, to save However, a glove, although tattered and torn,
glove was the end. Before dying of hunger Vial, to do anything without dignity. It was a case
of get dressed in the tavern of Boto, to eat two cooked real, rather than be in a good house, where
if you admitted with open arms also hurt his dignity with cruel jokes, rubbing in the face his
sponging and parasitism.

With agonizing effort sought the unhappy livelihood, even those from the less lucrative but the shortness
of their talents more difficult that in all cases is difficult. Both stirred, he could finally
find some empleíllos, certainly unworthy of its previous position but allowed to live some
time without stooping. Their misery, after all, could decorated with a veneer of dignity. Receive
a short pecuniary assistance as an intern school, or as a clerk boatmen Segovia Street, to bring
the accounts and put the letters, was begging certainly, but so well disguised that there was
no disgrace to receive it. Dragged for a few years life miserable, lonely dweller neighborhoods
South, not daring to go to the Centre and North, for fear of finding
knowledge being seen worse ill shod and clothed, and having lost those
accommodations sought others accepting the order, not without scruples
and crispaduras nerve, the position of broker or salesman a soap factory,
to go from shop to shop and house to house offering gender, and placing
the items could.

But so little malice labia and the poor man unfolded chalanesco in this job, soon had to stay on the
street. Recently assigned him to the sky around the Costanilla old ladies of St. Andrew, to
take them accounts of a trade remaining wax, which liquidated, yielding stocks in small lots
parishes and congregations. Work was scarce, but he gave only two pesetas a day, with which performed
the miracle of living, agencies, food and bedding, and do not say home, because it really did
not.

Already 80, he was the terrible year for the hapless Frasquito was determined to have no home,
and after a few days of horrific crisis that could be compared to the snail, for the one to take
home with them, was understood to Bernarda Sena, the owner of the bedrooms Noon Street Grande,
willing woman and knew distinguish. For three real bed gave him a penny, and unique gift to the decency
of the customer, for only one real addition let him have his trunk inside a small room, where
he also allowed spend an hour every morning straightening her clothes, and grooming with their
sinks, cosmetic and hands of dye. Came as a corpse, and left unknown, clean, fragrant and bright
beauty.

The peseta remaining employed in eating and dressing ... Huge problem, algebra impossible!
With all its troubles, this season gave him on break, because they suffered the humiliation
ask for help, and good or bad, wrong or right, the man had a way
of living, and living and breathing, and still had plenty of time
to give some back flips and imaginary spaces.

Obdulia his honest dealings with that knowledge came from Doña Paca and trade relations of the
old chandlers with burial, father of the child, if carried to the spirit of the Ponte comfort
from the consistency of ideas, tastes and hobbies, put him in the serious commitment neglect the
needs of the mouth to buy some new boots, since that time complained bitterly exclusively serving
horribly disfigured, and all passed the needy least come with ugly foot in the regions of the
ideal.

XVII

With the terrible imbalance brought to the dwindling budget, new boots and other True redundancy
items such as cream, cards, etc., in which it was necessary invest sums on account, it was entirely
empty Frasquito belly and without knowing where or how he had to fill it. But Providence, which
never abandons the good, afforded him a remedy in the house itself Obdulia, which killed some
days hunger, begging to accompany her to lunch, and of course I had to spend not a little saliva to slow
you down, and overcome his shyness and delicacy. Benin, which he read in his face starvation,
spent less Mademoiselle labels, and served him roughly, laughing at the fuss and Repulgue that
was delicate way to acceptance.

That day, that appeared so sinister, and that the appearance of Benin
changed to one of the happier, and Frasquito Obdulia, as they realized
that the problem was solved organic repair, threw a hundred million
miles from reality, to space their souls in the rosy atmosphere of
the real sham.

Ponte's ideas were very limited: they could purchase in the twenty
years of its social heyday were petrified, not to them was amended,
nor acquired new.

Misery snatching him from his old friends and relationships, and as his body is mummified, his
thinking was becoming fossil. In its thinking, did not exceed 68 lines and 70. Knew all the
things you know world was no man fallen from a nest or clouds, judged event and innocent people
innocence. The shame of their distressing withdrawal state and therefore had no little part in
his mental backwardness and poverty of thought.

For fear of being seen had a facade, he spent weeks and even months without leaving their neighborhoods;
and as I had not imperative that the center call him, did not go to the Plaza Mayor. She continually
random centrifugal monomania, preferring for his rambling streets
dark and lost, where you rarely see a top hat.

In such places, and enjoying of rest, time without fee and loneliness, his imaginative power
was reliving the happy times, or created in these people and things to taste and miserable
as the dreamer.

In his talks with Obdulia, never ceased to refer Frasquito its social and elegant life other
times, with interesting details: how it was presented at the gatherings of lords Tal, or What
Marquise, what distinguished people he met, and what were their characters, customs and dress.
Listed the sumptuous houses where he had spent happy hours, knowing the very best of Madrid
in both sexes, and recreating with entertaining talks very nice and hobbies. When the conversation
fell on matters of art, Ponte, raving for music and the Real, humming pieces of Norma and Maria
di Rohan, who listened Obdulia ecstasy.

Other times, rushing to poetry, verses recitábale D. Gregorio Romero Larrañaga and other poets of
those times silly. The radical ignorance of the young was their own land for these trials of
literary education, it was all new, all caused the rapture would feel at seeing a creature
toys for the first time.

There is never satiated girl (who is forced to call it that, despite
being married, with the abortion appropriate) to acquire and news
reports of the life of society, because although some had knowledge
of it, by vague memories of his childhood, and so her mother was told,
was in the descriptions and most charming Ponte paintings and poetry.

No Indeed, the company Frasquito time was more beautiful than the coeval finest men funniest
ladies and spiritual. A plea for it, described the fossil elegant banquets, dances, with all its
magnificence, the buffet or snack bar, with its variety of dishes and refreshments, had love
affairs that gave their time to speak; listing the rules of good manners then, even the tiniest
details of life luxuries was in use, and did the eulogy of the beauty that shone in his time, and had
already died or were cornered oldies. No ink was left in their own little adventures, or rather
first steps of love, or the inconvenience that such abuses had with husbands escamones or siblings
susceptible. In the result, had also its corresponding match, go! with sponsors, conditions, choice
of weapons, bickering, and finally, the clash of swords, ending all in fraternal lunch. Day after
day, was counting the number of incidents of social life, which contained all the varieties
of debauchery naive, elegance poor and righteous nonsense.

It was also a great fan Frasquito stage art and represented in various roles in home theaters one
day Flower Braid of her hair. Even sandwiches recalled parliament and both works, which he repeated
with emphasis declamation, and listened with rapture Obdulia, wiped tears in his eyes, by the
a phrase of the time. He also referred, and it had to use two sessions and a half dancing costumes
gave back Maricastaña years, a woman or Baroness Marquesa for I do not know how many. Frasquito
not forget, if you lived a thousand years, this great feast, attended Calabrian bandit.
 In fact, two days had already passed since his departure,
and it had been decided that on the evening of the 10th or at the latest the morning of the
11th, he should return. The colonists waited, therefore, for Ayrton to appear on Prospect Heights.
Neb and Herbert even watched at the bridge so as to be ready to lower it the moment their companion
presented himself.

But up to ten in the evening, there were no signs of Ayrton. It was, therefore, judged best
to send a fresh despatch, requiring an immediate reply.

The bell of the telegraph at Granite House remained mute.

The colonists' uneasiness was great. What had happened? Was Ayrton no longer at the corral,
or if he was still there, had he no longer control over his movements? Could they go to the
corral in this dark night?

They consulted. Some wished to go, the others to remain.

"But," said Herbert, "perhaps some accident has happened to the telegraphic apparatus, so that
it works no longer?"

"That may be," said the reporter.

"Wait till to-morrow," replied Cyrus Harding. "It is possible, indeed, that Ayrton has not
received our despatch, or even that we have not received his."

They waited, of course not without some anxiety. To
hear, suddenly stopped Doña Paca, as the little mouse that night, feeling constantly gnaw steps
or the man's voice. Was heard only, for a long time, the occasional sigh very profound for
the lady, who then began to complain and grumble under his breath. The other is not complaining. Quick
crisis had made the genius of the unhappy lady, determining a sharp turn of vane. Trocáronse
anger and displeasure to the point tenderness and affection. Occur soon the clearest symptom
of sedation, he was a keen remorse of what he had said and shame to remember, did not mean anything
because the grunts, and complain imaginary pain. As Benina not respond to these demonstrations,
Doña Paca, and about midnight, it started to call her "Nina, Nina, if you only knew how bad
I am! What a nochecita I'm going! Looks like I applied a hot iron on the side, and tear me to pulling
the leg bones. I have the head as if I had got the brains, putting in place of bread crumbs
and parsley finely chopped ... Not bothered, I have not told me make a cup of lime, rub me back and
give me a ballot salicylate bromide, or sulphonal ... This is horrible. You sleep like a basket.
Well, woman, rest, a little fat ... I do not want to bother. "

Without a word, Nina left the pallet, and throwing a skirt, made the
cup tila in economic stove, and before or after giving medicine to
the sick, and then rubs, and finally went to bed with her to coo like
a child, until getting sleep it off.

Mrs. Longing forget his previous rant, I thought the best way was clear loving the evil expressions
of ideas before, and so, while his companion cooed, he would say: "If I did not have you I do
not know what would happen to me. And then I complain to God, and say things and to insult
him as if he were a nobody. I really deprived of many goods, but I have given your company and
friendship, which is worth more than gold and silver and shiny ... Y I remember now, what do you advise
I should do in case of renewed D. Francisco Morquecho and D. José María Porcell embassy with that
inheritance? ...

- But, Madam, if thats what you dreamed ... and such men are a thousand years achantaditos very underground.

-
You are right: I dreamed ... But if not those, others might come
to the same music the best day.

- Who says no? Have you ever dreamed
you with empty boxes?

Because this is a sign of inheritance safe.

- And you, what you dream?

- Me? Last night we were with a black bull.

- So that means that we will discover a hidden treasure ... Look you,
who tells us that this old house, once inhabited the rich merchants,
there is within such partition wall or a pot full of pelucones well?

-
I have heard tell that in the last century lived here a few stockists
of cloth, powerful and when he died ... no money was not found.

It may be that the paninis. There have been cases, many cases.

- I have certainly money is on this farm ... But you know where they
hid démontrer these indinos.

Is not there a way to find out?

- I do not know ... I do not know! - Benina murmured, letting fly
his mind wander to the eastern spells proposed by Almudena.

- And
if the walls do not, under the tiles of the kitchen or pantry can
be what these gentlemen hid, thinking that they would enjoy in the
afterlife.

- May be ... But it is more likely to be in the walls,
or a guess, on roofs, including beams ...

- I think you're right.

The same can be up than down. I assure you that when strong floor in hallways and dining room, and
swept through the mansion as if to collapse, I think I feel a ruidillo
... metal and they sound and they ding ... Have not you felt?

- Yes,
ma'am.

- And if not, try it now.

Date walks around the room, stomping, and hear ...».

Benin and his wife obeyed his command, with no less conviction and faith that she, in effect
... heard a metallic clang, which could not only come from the huge
amounts of silver and gold (probably more gold than silver) embedded
in the ancient factory.

This illusion both asleep, and dreams were still hearing the ting, ting ...

The house was like a huge body, sweating, and each of its infinite pores let go one ounce, or
center, or twenty-one and a quarter penny.

XXVII

In the early morning the next day was Cambroneras Benina way, with
his basket on his arm thinking, not without concern, in the exaltation
of the good Almudena, which would lead to early madness, if she, with
her very quick, he could not restrain the right.

Below the Puerta de Toledo and found the other poor Burlada calling a stubborn child. Said
to her fellow parishioners who had moved his home to the Bridge, not being able to fix in the
kidney of Madrid with the high cost of rent and the meanness of the fruit of charity. In a
shack by the river gave accommodation for little more than nothing,
and this advantage united to ventilate the field trips that gave morning
and afternoon, the river and point to point river.

Asked by Benin on the Moor and his blind housing, replied that it had seen near the fountain,
past the bridge, asking, but did not know where he dwelt.

"Well, with God, madam - said goodbye Burlada -.

Are not you going to the point now? I do ... because although little is gained, there is a settlement.
Now I have every evening a good Platão ca food on Mr. Banker, who lives very entrance facing
the street las Huertas, and live as a canon, enjoying to see how he sharpens the snout to the
Caporal when the girl Mr. banker takes me my big cazolón of edible ... In short: with this and
something goes down, live, Dona Benin, and can be a bug in the rich. Goodbye, which have fun,
and find your health Moor ... Well, preserved. "

Followed each his due, and the entrance of the bridge on the road and ran Benina declining that
to the right leads to the suburb called Cambroneras, to the left bank Manzanares, at low land.
As he found a small square, bordered on the west side by a common building, the south by the railing
of the bridge abutment, and the other two unequal sides sandy slopes and embankments, are born
wild thorns, thistles and stunted grass. The site is colorful, airy, and might almost say happy,
because since it is dominated by the green banks of the river, washing and dish clothes tenderijos
thousand colors. To the west stands the mountains, and the opposite bank of the river cemeteries
San Isidro, San Justo, offering a spectacular view to both tuft of cemeteries and both dark
green cypress ... The melancholy inherent in the cemeteries not deprive them in that picture,
its decorative nature, as a good backdrop added by man to Nature.

To descend slowly toward the square, he saw the beggar two donkeys ... What do I say two? eight
ten or more donkeys, with their angry red collars, and with them groups of Gypsies sunbathing,
which flooded the neighborhood with its radiant light, cheerful giving shine to were adorned
with colorful gross and people. In the animated huddles all was laughter, chacota, running
to and fro. The girls jumped, the boys ran in pursuit; the children, dressed in rags, tumbled,
and donkeys were kept only serious and reflective in the midst of unrest and commotion. Old
gypsy women, some tanned complexion and black circle gossiping in separate Grandón arrimaditas the
building, a house regular racer look. Two or three girls wash cloths in the middle puddle
of the square is formed with escurriduras and waste from the local source. Some of these girls
were very dark skinned, almost black, which highlighted the filigree hanging their ears, others
color of mud, all agile, graceful, and drop-waisted esbeltísimas
language.

He sought the old familiar faces among those people, and look around here and there, thought he
recognized a gypsy who had once been in the hospital, going to pick up a friend of hers. He would
not approach the group in which such other disputed on a donkey whose sores were the subject
of lively discussion, and waited a favorable opportunity. This was soon come, because entangled
two churumbeles clean punch, the one with legs open from top to bottom, showing the black cops,
the other with a sort of turban on his head, and all dressed in a man's sweater: the gypsy
came to separate; ayudole Benin, and Immediately afterwards he holed in this way:

"Tell me, good friend, have you seen around here yesterday and today to a blind man they call
Almudena moro?

- Yes, ma'am: halo seen ... jablao with him - said the gypsy, showing two teeth racing ideal because
of their whiteness, equality and perfect preservation, which highlighted within the case two
large, fleshy lips, a violation retinto -. We saw in the bridge ... she said she dende dwelling
houses last night Ulpiano ... and ... I do not know what else ... Desapártese, good woman, this
beast is many inconsiderate, and kicks ...».

Benina fled from the chair, looking around him the great hind legs of a donkey, two peas beaten, and
to know the tricks and his education asses and gitanesca, and went to the houses that he motioned
that of perfect teeth.

Start of the esplanade a winding road or street towards the bridge of Segovia. In left as you enter
it, is the house broker, a vast hive of rooms poor worth six pesetas a month, and follow the walls
and outbuildings of a fifth or farm Valdemoro call. On the right, several ancient houses, dilapidated,
with indoor pens, dirty rusty fences and walls, offers the most irregular, decrepit and miserable
that architecture can be urban or rural.

Some doors boast beautiful tiles with San Isidro figure and date of construction, and the dilapidated
roofs, full of humps, twisted vanes are made of sheet iron, gracefully wrought. As you approach,
noting Benina somebody showed up to a fence on the ground floor,
he intended to ask was white donkey, excessive ear, which headed out
when she began speaking.

Came the woman in the first corral, paving, all bumpy, uneven door rooms and sheds or stalls
vivideros covered with rusted tin sheet: the only wall white or less dirty than the others, saw
a boat painted with ocher, three-masted frigate, child style, with fireplace which curves out
smoke. In this part, a woman scrawny wash rags in a trough: it was a gypsy, but paya. For the reasons
that this gave him, in the left part of the Roma lived with his donkeys, in peaceful community
room, for bed each other the holy ground, serving as pillows troughs the sound. On the right,
and also blocks borriqueñas, no less filthy than others went to sleep at night many of those who
are poor in Madrid: ten cents were given a portion of the soil, and live. Almudena detailed
signs of Benin, said the woman who, in fact, had slept there, but other poor people was gone
early, it did not provide those bedrooms to laziness. If the woman wanted a message for the Moor
blind, she would give, if come the second night to sleep.

Thanking the scrawny, left Benin, and went across the street below, watching to either side. Expected
to distinguish one of those bald hillocks of the Moroccan Fig sunbathing or delivered to his melancholy.
Ulpiano past houses, are not the right rather than arid, rocky slopes, landfill debris, slag
and sand. As a hundred meters from the Esplanade is a curved or zig-zag rather, leading to the station
Fleas, which is recognized from below by the stain of coal in the ground, the fences enclosure
of way, and something that steams and boils above all this. Next to the station, East Side,
a stream of sewage, black as ink, down a channel open slopes, and saving the road by a culvert,
runs to fertilize gardens before discharge into the river. " He stopped there, the beggar, looking
with a keen eye on ditch, where the water plunges for dark froth, and orchards, which left extend to
the river, planted with Swiss chard and lettuce. Continued even later, he knew that the African
liked the solitude of the countryside and the rough weather.

The day was peaceful: vivid light accentuated the bright green of the greens and the purple of
the cabbage, pour across the landscape shouts of joy. He walked and stood alone several times, looking
at gardens to feast their eyes and spirit, and the arid hills and saw nothing resembling the
image of a blind Moor sunbathing. Back to the Esplanade, down to the margin river, and ran the
laundry and the shacks that are supported by the buttress, and found no no trace of Mordechai.
Dejected, he turned to the Madriles up, intending to repeat the day following their investigations.

At
home he found no novelty, I mean, yes, found one that might well be called wonderful event, a
work of genius Samdai underground. Shortly after entering, said to Dona Paca with joy: "But,
my dear, do not you know ...? I wanted you to come to tell you ...

- What, ma'am?

- Who's been here D. Romualdo.

- D. Romualdo! ... I think you're dreaming.

- Do not know why ... Is it a thing of another world that this man come to my house?

- No, but ...

- Of course that has given me what to think ... What happens?

- Nothing happens.

- I thought something had happened at Mr. Priest, a nasty issue you,
and he came to me with complaints.

- There is nothing like that.

-
Do not you see him you leave home?

Do not you said that coming here?

- What a character!

Now I'm going to tell me sir where it goes, when it comes out.

-
Well, it's very strange ...

- But in the end, if you came, you would
say ...

- What should he tell me, if I have not seen?

... Let me explain.

A ten fell to keep me company, as usual, one of the girls in the cordonera, the largest and
Celedonia who is smarter than gunpowder.

Well, at about quarter to twelve, ding, call the door.

I told the girl: "Open, my daughter, and whoever it is you say I'm
not."

Since the scandal that I put together that rascal of the store, I
do not like seeing anyone when are not you ... Celedonia opened ...
I felt a deep voice here, as main person, I did not understand anything
... Then I told the girl who was a priest sir ...

- What signs?

-
Tall, handsome ... Neither old nor young.

- That's right - Benina
said, amazed at the coincidence -.

But do not let card?

- No, because he had forgotten his wallet.

-
And asked for me?

- No. He just said he wanted me for a matter of
great interest.

- In that case, again.

- Not very soon.

He said that this afternoon had to go to Guadalajara.

You've heard of that trip.

- I think so ... Someone said something down to the station, and the suitcase, and I do not
know why.

- Well, you see ... Celedonia can call for me to explain better. He said he felt therefore not meet
... that Guadalajara would come around ... But it is rare that you
do not have discussed the matter of interest that has to deal with me.

Or do you know and want to hold back the surprise?

- No, no, I do
not know anything about that ... What is safe Celedonia name?

- Just
ask ... Two or three times repeated: "Tell your wife that has been
here D. Romualdo.

"

Questioned the girl, it confirmed everything that is said by Dona
Paca.

It was very clever, and not I missed a single word they heard Mr.
Church, and described in faithful memory her face, her dress, her
accent ... Benina, confused for a moment because of the rarity of
the case, gave soon to be forgotten for having more important things
to occupy their understanding.

He found Vial so much better, they agreed to lift the bed, but to
take the first steps room and hallway, he found the lover with the
news that her right leg had been a bit invalid ... Expected, however,
that with good food and exercise regain its activity and that member
firm.

Would soon discharged.

Its recognition the two ladies, and particularly Benin, would last as long as life ... New
felt encouragement and new hope, cheerful omens soon get a good placement
allowed to live in ease, having their own home, however humble, y. ..

Anyway, that was lively man, and the pharmacy inexhaustible optimism
was restored sooner.

Since all attended Nina, and no need of the people under their care is forgot, saw fit to warn
the ladies of San Andrés Costanilla, sure have missed the absence
of a dependent.

"Yes, bring me the favor of a recadito on my part - said the gallant, admiring this new trait
estimate -. Tell you what you like, and certainly leave me in good stead. "

Benin did so early evening, and the next morning, with fresh, started again his walk to the
Bridge of Toledo.

XXVIII

He found a tattered old man who used to ask, with a girl in her arms, at the Oratory Olivet,
which told him crying over their misfortunes, which would be enough to break the rocks. The
daughter of this mother of the child, and one that stayed home sick one neighbor, had died two days'
misery, lady, tired of so much suffering laying the gofes in search
of a medium muffin. "

What did it now with two kids, not having to keep if for himself did not draw? The Lord had
his hand stopped. No saint in heaven and damned if he did. Wanted no more to die, and to bury
soon, soon, to stop seeing the world.

His only aspiration was to leave worldly colocaditas the two girls in a arrecogimiento of many
that are for infants of both sexes. And in order to see his evil
shadow!

... He had found a kind soul, a man ecclesiastical who offered the girls put in an asylum, but
when I thought I had managed the business, the devil came to break
it down ... "You see, Madam, do you know a man by chance very priest
showed up called D. Romualdo?

- I think so - said the beggar, again
feeling a lot of confusion or dizziness in head.

- Tall, well built,
habits of fine cloth, or old or young.

- He says that is called D.
Romualdo?

- D. Romualdo, yes ma'am.

- Will ... by chance, one that
has a niece named Doña Patros?

- I do not know how to call, but niece
is ... and pretty.

Well, you see my dog ​​lucky.

Was in me, yesterday afternoon, right. I'm going home, and tell me that he had gone to Guadalajara.

-
Just ...-- Benina said, more confused, feeling that the real and imaginary scrambling and
intertwined in the brain -. But soon will come.

- I wonder if he returns. "

Then the old man said to be dying of hunger had not entered his mouth, in three days, more than a
piece of raw cod that occurred in a shop, and some of corruscos bread, dipped in the fountain
to soften them, because they had no bone in the mouth.
 Harding made arrangements, therefore, for living in the corral, of which
the provisions would last for a tolerable length of time. Ayrton's house had been provided
with all that was necessary for existence, and the convicts, scared by the arrival of the settlers,
had not had time to pillage it. It was probable, as Gideon Spilett observed, that things had
occurred as follows:

The six convicts, disembarking on the island, had followed the southern shore, and after having
traversed the double shore of the Serpentine Peninsula, not being inclined to venture into
the Far West woods, they had reached the mouth of Falls River. From this point, by following
the right bank of the watercourse, they would arrive at the spurs of Mount Franklin, among
which they would naturally seek a retreat, and they could not have been long in discovering
the corral, then uninhabited. There they had regularly installed themselves, awaiting the moment
to put their abominable schemes into execution. Ayrton's arrival had surprised them, but they
had managed to overpower the unfortunate man, and--the rest may be easily imagined!

Now, the convicts,--reduced to five, it is true, but well armed,--were roaming the woods, and
to venture there was to expose themselves to their attacks, which could be neither guarded
against nor prevented.

"Wait! There is nothing else to be done!" repeated Cyrus Harding. "When Herbert is cured, we
can organize a general battle of the island, and have satisfaction of these convicts. That
will be the object of our grand expedition at the same time--"

"As the search for our mysterious protector," added Gideon Spilett, finishing the engineer's
sentence. "And it must be acknowledged, my dear Cyrus, that this time his protection was wanting
at the very moment when it was most necessary to us!"

"Who knows?" replied the engineer.

"What do you mean?" asked the reporter.

"That we are not at the end of our trouble yet, my dear Spilett, and that his powerful intervention
may have another opportunity of exercising itself. But that is not the question now. Herbert's
life before everything."

This was the colonists' saddest thought. And this lady, what is grace?

- My name is Benin.

- Toledo Are you by any chance?

- No, Madam, I am ... two leagues from Guadalajara.

- Onion I in the land of Talavera ... and tell me one thing: why is gorrinaza of Pedrilla Jai calls
you?

What is your name in your religion and your filthy earth, with forgiveness?

- Call me because being morito Jai him - said the tragic mimicking their speech.

- Mordechai my name - said the blind - and I be born in a mu puebro Bunite call Ullah beyond
the Bergel, terra of His ... Oh! terra divine Bunite ... mochas trees, oil mocha, honey, fror,
támaras, Güena mocha. "

The memory of her native country instilled a naive enthusiasm, and there was the painting and describe
with hyperbole funny, poetic and colorful with great entertainment and tasted joy the three
women. Prompted by them, had some passages of his life, all full of great cases, dangerous business
and fantastic adventures. First spoke of how he escaped parental home, age of fifteen, rushing
out into the world, without all the time elapsed since that event, had any news of his homeland
and family. Mandola its father home from a merchant friend of yours with this message: "Tell Ruben
Toledo give you two hundred I need hard today. " The so must be the way a banker, and the two
lords ruled patriarchal certainly trust because the commission was
paid without any difficulty, taking Mordechai two hundred dollars
in four heavy cartridges Spanish currency.

But instead of go with them to her parents, took the little way of Fez, eager to see the world
of work your account, and earn big money for the author of his days, not two hundred hard, but
two thousand or hundreds of thousands. Purchase two donkeys, began to carry goods and passengers between
Fez and Meknes, with good earnings. But a hot day, God's punishment! passed next to a river and
she wanted to take a bath. In the water floated two horses dead bad thing. Upon leaving the bathroom
it hurt the eyes: on the third day was blind.

As I still had money, some time could live without imploring the public charity, with sadness
inherent not see, and the equally deep caused by the abrupt transition from working life to sedentary.
The boy was strong and agile for overnight frail and sickly man, Merchant and his ambitions
and enthusiasms of travelers were reduced to a continuous reflect on the uncertainty of earthly
goods, and the infallible justice of God Our Father and Judge feel the hand of the sinner.
No one dared to ask the poor blind man to give her back sight, since it had not granted. It was
punishment, and the Lord will not go back when it hits hard.

Time asking his to give him plenty of money to live comfortably,
and muqui love you, but none of this was given to the poor Mordechai,
every day had less money, as these were leaving, but others enter
anywhere and of muquieres anything.

Those who approached him pretending you love, would not only his
den stealing.

One day the man was very upset about not being able to catch a flea
atrociously stung him, taunting him with insolent audacity, when ...
no joke ... it appeared two angels.

XIV

"But you see something, Almudena? - Fourth and asked kilo.

- Watch me burt them. "

He explained that distinguished the dark mass in the middle of the light: that it regards the
things of the world from here. But what of the mysterious worlds that extend above and below,
front and rear, outside and inside of us, his eyes were clear, when they saw, the same as
you see me.

Well, as two angels appeared to him, as he was not haunt him thing to say nothing, they said
they came from the King of terra baixo an embassy to him. Mr. Samdai had to speak, for which it was
necessary to be my man Slaughter by night, which was burning there ilcienso, and praying in
the middle of the spoils cattle and pools of blood, until twelve o'clock, time constant of the
interview. No should be added that the angels went away with a fresh wind in knowledge were
Mordechai your message, and this took its chess pieces to fumigate the pipe, the ration of
hemp on paper, and went little way of Slaughterhouse: the long encampment before him, he would smoking
less boring.

There he was, squatting, sniffing the fragrant fumes of incense, and smoking pipe after pipe,
until the time came, and primerito he saw was a couple of dogs, larger the cameio, Branco, with eyes
of fire. He, Mordechai, mocha Mede, he removed a Mede breathing. Next came a fix it with a
lot of riders Cantoria, galas mochas, then Rain began to fall very
thick sand and stones, so, so, who was buried up neck ... and not
breathing.

Median increasingly ... On top of all that happened slag superfast another squadron of cavalry,
giving the whites alquiceles wind, and constantly shooting shots. There followed a flood of
snakes and alcranes, which fell hissing and coiling. Poor Mede was dying blind, feeling involved
in the horrible tag unclean animals ... But Then came men and women on foot, in slow procession,
all with white robes, holding in his hand baskets and trays of gold, and stepping on flowers
as roses and lilies in magically had become snakes and scorpions, and fragrant mint and branches
laurel rained all the material warm sand and sharp stones.

To avoid fatigue, the King finally appeared, beautiful, human and divine beauty, long beard
and black, earrings, gold crown jewels seemed to be by the sun, moon and stars. Green was his
costume, which was fine as being the work of a highly polished spiders
in the deep bosom of the earth woven with threads of fire.

The entourage was Samdai so colorful and bright dazzling. As I asked Petra if not also His
coming Majesty the Queen, he remained standing a moment the narrator, recalling, and finally realized
which also saw Mrs. King, but very stuffy face like the moon between clouds Mordechai and therefore
could not distinguish right. The Sovereign wore yellow, a color as well as our thoughts when
we are between happy and sad. Expressed this the blind with difficulty supplying the clumsiness
of his language with the physiognomy of the game conviction, and
the grimaces and gestures speak volumes.

Total: than an order of the King you were putting forward all the trays and baskets of gold that
were dressed in white women. What was it? Pieldras of various kinds, mochas, mochas, which soon
formed clumps that would not fit in any home: Rubilar as chickpeas, pearls the size of pigeon eggs,
tudas, tudas large fine diamond in such quantities that they had to fill bags mochas, and bags a car
moving, emeralds such as nuts and pono trompacios as mine ...

Heard that the three women gawking, silent, eyes fixed on the face of the blind, half-open
mouths. At the beginning of the relationship, were not willing to believe, and ended up believing
by stimulation of their souls, eager to things pleasant and enjoyable, as compensation for
the misery embarrassing in which they lived. Almudena put all his soul in his voice, and they all spoke
the language movable folds of his face, and even the hairs of his beard black. All were signs,
hieroglyphics decipherable, oriental writing that listeners understood
without knowing why.

The end of splendid view was that the king told Mordechai's good that the two things I wanted,
wealth and wife could give no further than one; to opt between the jewels of great value to front
watched, and which would enjoy a fortune greater than that of all the sovereigns of the land,
and a good woman, beautiful and industrious, certainly as rare gem that could not be found
but stirring all the earth. Mordechai did not hesitate a moment in the election, and said to
His Baixo terra Majesty, that wanted nothing so much jewels in bushels, if they did not muqui
... "Want me she ... muqui like me, and without muqui me, this fine pieldras unwilling or diniero
and Naida. "

Then the King Señalole a female wrapped tightly in a blanket that hid all the face inclusive,
was on the road, and told him that was his, and that continue to
catch or rather hunt, then a slight step was the doomed.

And with that by the King deigned His Majesty disappearing, and with him went all of his entourage,
and fix it and the ladies in white, tudo, tudo, leaving no more than
a strong odor of ilcienso, and the two big dog barking that were lost
in the background of the cold night, as if terrified to flee into
the mountains.

Mordechai was sick three months after this unique event and would
not eat more than water and barley meal without salt.

He remained so thin which had to touch all the bones without being escaped an account. Finally,
crawling as he could, made his way around the greatness of the world
in search of woman who, as divine Samdai said, was his.

"And you found to tantismos years running, and called Nicole - Petra said, wanting to help
the biographer himself.

- What do you know? Not to be Nicole.

- So is the lady - the Diega said, noting not without some impertinence to poor Benina, not a whimper.

-
Me? ... Jesus me excuses! I am no Tarascon who walks along the roads. "

Almudena was from Fez had gone to Algeria, who lived on alms in Tlemcen first Constantine and
Oran then, that at this point he sailed for Marseilles, and went through all France, Lyon,
Dijon, Paris, which many large with many floors and good olive street all like the back of the
hand.

After climbing up a people who called Lila, turned to Marseilles
and Cette, where he sailed for Valencia.

"And in Valencia found to Nicole, with whom you came to clappers,
which gave you the aiuntamientos, with two cover materials - Petra
said - and you you were in Madrid to Portugal and three years I did
the happy, sly, until the slut you went with another.

- You do not
know.

- To tell the story of Nicole and how he caught him in Madrid
to take you to San Bernardino, and she went to espital, and one night
while he slept, he saw two Women in the other world, eg, souls, to
say that Nicole spoke in espital one that he was to be discharged
...

- Do not be that, not just that: shut up you.

- One day we will
tell - Benina said, that although he liked to hear those entertained
stories, would not stop more, recalling their pressing chores.

-
Wait, madam, what hurry? - Said the Diega -.

Where will you most worth?

- Another day count more - said the blind man smiling -.

Mocha me see the world.

- You cansadito, Jai. Convídanos a half to soak you language, you
have it drier than shoe leather.

- I do not invite me to them, b'rrachonas.

Not having diniero me.

- Why is not - said Diego, lavish.

- I do not drink - declared Benina
-, and I have quickly, and with the permission of the company I'm
leaving.

- Getting you some more.

Dar eleven clock.

- Letting - Petra said kindly - in case you need to go to win, that we we have already won.
"

Questioned by Almudena, reported that having taken the Diega some money owed two girls in the
street from the top deck, were thrown into the trade, then again and were highly available
and mischief for the buying and selling. Petra did not feel honest and complete female but when
it was dedicated to traffic, even if in small things, such as chopsticks, mondarajas of tea,
and Torrão. The other was an eagle and lace handkerchiefs. With that money, come their hands
by a miracle, bought a house gender balance, and on the morning of that day put their bazaars
next to the Arganzuela Fuentecilla, having the kind of place many races of buttons, sticks,
many of lace and two vests Bayonne. Another day would remove china, pictures, and horses that
gave carton, from gains in factory Sheep Street. Both spoke at length about your business, and
praised each other, Fourth and kilo because if it was not there for the acquisition of gender
by thick, the another one was advancing in salt and malice for retail
sale.

Another sign that there was been born to be retailer or anything, was that the quarter earned in
the sale you hit the pocket, awakening in her vague hopes of saving, while those by other means
were at his thin hands, he escaped through his fingers before could close his fist to keep them.

Benina
very attentive heard these explanations, which had the virtue of infusing some sympathy to
the drunk, because she too, Benin, felt businessman, also touched
her soul ever dream of buying and selling.

Ah! if, instead of engaging in service, working as a black woman had taken a front door, another
rooster will sing. But old age and the indissoluble moral society Doña Paca it impossible
for the trade.

He stressed the good woman to leave the pleasant chat, and when he rose to say goodbye cayósele
the pen he had given D. Carlos, and when trying to collect soil cayósele also on the agenda.

"Well,
does not lead you there are few things - Petra said, picking up the book and leafing through
it quickly, with grimaces of reading, but spelled more I read -. What is this? A book keep accounts.
How I like it!

March, it says here, then Pe ... mushrooms, then cents. Is mu bonito point here everything
that comes and goes. I write as is, but the numbers I jam, because I caught on eight fingers,
and when most do not remember him ever you get.

- The book - said Benin, which envisioned a business point - a relative
gave me my lady to take her by apuntación spending, but do not know.

No longer the Magdalena for these taffeta, and said the other ...
And now I think, ladies, you, trading, they should be this book.

Hey, I sell it, if I pay well.

- How much?

- As for you, two dimes.

- It's a lot - and kilo Fourth said, looking
at the pages of the book, which continued in the hands of co -.

And why do you want us, if we clog the black?

- Toma - Petra said, children rush to review a laugh, his finger dipped in saliva, leaves -.
Is marked with broken lines, so many numbers, so many stripes, and this is more clear ... It
gives a real, ea.

- But do not see that is new?

Its value, here, says: "Two pesetas."

Haggled. Almudena reconciled the interests of both sides, and finally was closed treatment in
forty cents, with pen and everything. Left the cafe the Benina, joyful, thinking who had not
lost time, because if were fantastic in the beautiful pieldras Mordechai lots put before him, positive
and good law was four dogs, as Four Suns, who had earned selling the useless gift Trujillo monomaniac.

XV

The long break in the cafe allowed to go like a shot the distance between the Trail and Calle
de la Cabeza, where he lived Miss Obdulia, who wanted to visit and help before leaving home,
it was clear that the child belonged half, bitch more or less, one of the hard of D. Carlos.
A quarter to twelve he entered the portal, that seemed uncanny and humid outside a prison. As
there was a settlement under donkey's milk, with little donkeys painted in the sample, and within
living without air or light, the nurses of consumptive peaceful, emaciated and cold. In goal
gave asylum to a Benina known, the blind Pulido, who was also a fixed point in San Sebastian.
With him and with Burrero chatted a while before climbing, and they gave him two very bad
news: that would raise the bread and had fallen sharply the stock market, the first signal that
it was not raining, and the latter of which was to drop a fat revolution, all because the artists
asked the eight hours and the masters did not want to give them. Burrero announced soon with
prophetic gravity would remove all the cash money and there would
be more than paper, even for the ESP, and that would throw new contributions,
including, for scratching and be a who's who good days. With these
bad impressions Benina up the ladder, as rested as bleak, with the
steps in rumen, the peeling walls, without signs missing carbon or
pencil scrawled with paneled doors, through which loomed the lower
hinge piece of mat, and dirty street lamps seemed like urns day Saints.
In the first floor, coming down from heaven, with neighborhood cats
and a magnificent view of the shingles and dormers, Miss Obdulia lived,
his house, by the width of dilapidated rooms and cold would like convent,
but for the low elevation of the roofs, which almost caught hand.

The despair of Harding and his companions may be imagined when they read these words:--

"Friday, six o'clock in the morning.

"Plateau invaded by convicts.

                             "Neb."

They gazed at each other without uttering a word, then they re-entered the house. What were
they to do? The convicts on Prospect Heights! that was disaster, devastation, ruin.

Herbert, on seeing the engineer, the reporter, and Pencroft re-enter, guessed that their situation
was aggravated, and when he saw Jup, he no longer doubted that some misfortune menaced Granite
House.

"Captain Harding," said he, "I must go; I can bear the journey. I must go."

Gideon Spilett approached Herbert; then, having looked at him,--

"Let us go, then!" said he.

The question was quickly decided whether Herbert should be carried on a litter or in the cart
which had brought Ayrton to the corral. The motion of the litter would have been more easy
for the wounded lad, but it would have necessitated two bearers, that is to say, there would
have been two guns less for defense if an attack was made on the road. Would they not, on the
contrary, by employing the cart leave every arm free? Was it impossible to place the mattress
on which Herbert was lying in it, and to advance with so much care that any jolt should be
avoided? It could be done.

The cart was brought. Truth could ie, a supposition
which has been bad D. Romualdo and I have to watch over him ... Well, what is to do?

- N 'Things Need some mochas. You buy things. The earthen lamp Primiero. But you buy paliabra
you without speaking.

- I go silent.

- Change you ... Buy something ... and if talking does not assert.

- Válgate God ... Well then: I buy my clay lamp without a word, then ...».

Almudena ordered after he had to find a clay pot with seven holes,
with seven nothing more, all without speaking, because if he was not
worth.

Démontrer "but where was those pots with seven holes?

This said the blind man in his own land any, and that this could
be met with roasters who use Brazil nuts, looking for one who has
seven bujeros, no more no less.

"And this must also be purchased without speaking?

- No talking Naida. "

Then was forced to procure a carrash stick, wood from Africa, here
called laurel.

A seller of clubs, be the first shed the Americas did.

Had to buy it without a word. Well, because these things together, it would stick to the fire
until to latch on properly ... This was to be Friday at five o'clock. If not, worth. And the stick
would burn until Saturday, and on Saturday at five o'clock he got into the water seven times,
no more no less.
"Is everything creeping?

- Talk Naida, Naida. "

After the club
dressed in women's clothes, like a doll, and he snuggled right dress
to the wall, putting right, masters feet. Was placed before the lamp
of clay, on with oil, and covered her with the pot, so saw no more
light than would bujeros the seven, and within walking distance to
put the pot to cast light the incense, and start saying the prayer
over and over again with the thought, because talking is worth. Now, this note was dated six o'clock in the morning, and the active orang, accustomed
to come frequently to the corral, had taken scarcely three quarters of an hour to cross the
five miles which separated it from Granite House. Consists in the fear of being loved for the money
and not by yourself. Nothing more ridiculous than this fear. We have proven that money is more
life. Money is therefore an essential part of the person. A philosopher German would say the
money is put into the self in an absolute manner. More fool is thus tormented, because they want one
for the money, which tormented because they want one because it is clean, well-bred, elegant,
educated etc., all qualities that are purchased at artificially same as money, that money
should be more or less quantity. Maybe I better not the last porter in Madrid, sometimes physical,
sometimes intellectual, sometimes morally considered and yet, assuming single, any beautiful lady
might have even the caprice of love Me, not censor anyone, but if the porter fall in love, everyone
have this passion for extravagance or folly. Then, in the final outcome, that moves them to
love, unless extravagantísimo love, is money, or something that represents money or purchased
with money. What I have spent in educating, pulirme, wash up and dapper, is nothing more than money.

Finally,
the largest and most enviable advantage that money provides is the authority and respectability
to give to whom he has, and the confidence just who has inspired.

III.

These considerations on the influence of money or wealth in the individual, like I happen to discourse
at greater length about the influence of wealth on culture and power nations, but will not record
here more than some very slight concepts. I flinch the fear of getting lost, and very little awareness
of my knowledge in political economy, science that at the end, after much thought, the authors
have all come to agree with Aristotle where is the money, or, more
generally, wealth, where the flame Chrematistics sage of Stagira.

    And even more unfortunate than my own ignorance,
    that

After a hundred thousand books stirred Science out of this tangled and awkward,

no one can know clearly what is wealth. All definitions are discordant and is that science begins
with not knowing how to define, determine and declare the object of science itself. Neither
is more advanced in the definition of other scientific words, such
as value, price, capital, industry and change, which is not strange
because it still ignored it is wealth, which is the key word or idea,
necessarily has to ignore or is it disagree about the rest.

Malthus said: "After so many years of research and many volumes of findings, writers could not
be understood until now about what constitutes wealth, and while
that writers who are employed in this business are better understood,
no conclusions may be taken as a maximum to be followed.

"

Dedúcese of here, Malthus conviction and authority that we should not follow the maximum or Ignoring
one of few economists who preceded him in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and
in the first third of this. All these economists do not know what they said, according to Malthus;
and that among them are Smith, Say, Storch, Ricardo, Gioja, Mac-Culloch and other eminences.
They have not progressed further then other wise to give these definitions. Stuart Mill withdraws
to define what is wealth, and says that if only we understand it
in practice, thereby continues.

Bastiat is entangled in harmony with other economists rivals, and is prove you are ignorant
or fools who do not know what is the value.

Indeed, one of these economists attempt to demonstrate that the value of a thing is overcome
the obstacles to produce, which it follows that, the easier it becomes production, reducing
the obstacles, things have less value, so that, while more things
there, we will be poorer. It, therefore, create barriers to production,
so that, finding it hard to produce, also worth a lot of things produced,
and we rich. Seems impossible that such ideas are sustained and even
to be challenged seriously.

What was he to do? asked poor Neb. Personally he had nothing to fear, for the convicts could
not reach him in Granite House. But the buildings, the plantations, all their arrangements
at the mercy of the pirates! Would it not be best to let Cyrus Harding judge of what he ought
to do, and to warn him, at least, of the danger which threatened him?

Neb then thought of employing Jup, and confiding a note to him. 

This would have said, if you have found them, but there was no such meeting or such words were
pronounced. He turned back home very sad, and no longer went out of his mind the idea that Guadalajara
is the beneficent priest was not his own invention, that everything we dream has its own existence,
and that involve truth lies. They spent two days in this situation, no more news that horrible
growth of economic difficulties. With so much pordiosear morning and evening, never leaving the account
was not born there and you should trust no one value real amenazola Pitusa to give the party
if not returned within a brief period their jewelry. Faltábale and energy, and great courage wavered,
lost faith in Providence, and form opinions unflattering human charity, all errands and excursions
to procure money gave no other result than a hard few days lent by Juliana, the wife of Antonito.
The charity was not enough or far, in vain until she was deprived of his usual food, to cover the
shortage at home, in vain he went with broken sandals, bruised feet. The economy, the sleaze
itself, were ineffective: there was no choice but to succumb and fall, saying: "I came to where
I could, what else do God, if you want."

One Saturday afternoon filled their woes with an unexpected and sad incident. Left to ask in
San Justo: Almudena did the same on the streets of Sacramento. She Estrenose ten cents, unprecedented
windfall, which it considered a good omen. But how great his error, to rely on these goodies
that fate throws at us and hurt us adverse to lure comfortably! Happy Soon Release, an individual
appeared in the secret round that pushing a bad way, he said, "Come, good woman, take you to
walk forward ... And I live, I live ...

- What? ...

- You shut up and walk ...

- But where it takes me?

- Shut up you,
you have more account ... Hala! to San Bernardino.

- But what am
I doing wrong ... sir?

- Are you asking!

... Did not I tell you yesterday that the Governor does not want
ask in this street?

- Well, keep me Mr. Governor, I hunger I will
not die, for Christ ... Go with men!

...

- Street you so drunk!

... Walking say!

- Do not push me!

... I am not a criminal ... I have family, I know who paid me ... Hey, I'm not going to where
you want to take ...».

He leaned against the wall, but the fierce policeman took off with a push violentísimo Stevedores. Drew
near two public order, to which he sent round to take her to San Bernardino, together with all other
pobretería of both sexes in this street and adjacent streets found. Benina even tried to win
the will of the guards, was willing in affliction alive. Begged and wept bitterly, but tears
and entreaties were in vain. Forward, always forward, leading to the rear of the blind African,
who, as he learned that picked her up, went to the Order, asking that he also cast him the
network and Hell itself will take, provided he does not leave her.

In the former case, they must have returned towards the corral, now without defenders, and
which contained valuable stores.

In the latter, they must have regained their encampment, and would wait on opportunity to recommence
the attack.

It was, therefore, possible to prevent them, but any enterprise to clear the island was now
rendered difficult by reason of Herbert's condition. Indeed, their whole force would have been
barely sufficient to cope with the convicts, and just now no one could leave Granite House.

The engineer and Neb arrived on the plateau. Desolation reigned everywhere. The fields had
been trampled over; the ears of wheat, which were nearly full-grown, lay on the ground. The
other plantations had not suffered less.

The kitchen-garden was destroyed. Happily, Granite House possessed a store of seed which would
enable them to repair these misfortunes.

As to the wall and buildings of the poultry-yard and the onagers stable, the fire had destroyed
all. A few terrified creatures roamed over the plateau. The birds, which during the fire had
taken refuge on the waters of the lake, had already returned to their accustomed spot, and
were dabbling on the banks. Everything would have to be reconstructed.

Cyrus Harding's face, which was paler than usual, expressed an internal anger which he commanded
with difficulty, but he did not utter a word. Once more he looked at his devastated fields,
and at the smoke which still rose from the ruins, then he returned to Granite House.

The following days were the saddest of any that the colonists had passed on the island! Herbert's
weakness visibly increased. When it does not sink the world events such,
probably will not ever sink ... Beyond the stables tried again with reasons and cries soften
the hearts of his keepers. But they complied with an order the head, and if not met, they would
throw Respice medium. Almudena silent, walking agarradito at the foot of Benin, and seemed disgusted
with the collection and deposit of begging driving.

If I cried the poor candidate, not least the sky was crying, agreeing with her dark sadness, as
the drizzle began to fall at the time of collection grew to be heavy rain, which put it head to toe loss.
The clothes of both dripping beggar; Almudena mushroom hat seemed the top piece of the source
of the Tritons, little and to have lacked moss. Benina lightweight footwear, shattered by the
long walk of those days, it was falling to pieces in the ponds and bogs in which they got. When
arrived in San Bernardino, thought the old lady better be barefoot. 'Amri - Almudena told when pierced
the door sad Municipal Asylum - yorar not you ... Here it tigo me ... Yorar not you ... contented
me ... Soup, bread give us ...».

In his desolation, he would not answer Benina. Gladly would have given him a stick. How had to
take over that bum of reason with which the unhappy woman complained of luck? Who but she would
understand the distress of his wife, his girlfriend, her sister, and night of anxiety that
would happen, ignorant of what happened? And if she did the favor of release the next day,
what reasons, what lies explain his long absence, his sudden disappearance? What could I say or
what his invention out of fertile imagination? Nothing nothing: it would be best discard all lie,
revealing the secret of his begging, nothing shameful indeed. But it could happen that I did
not believe Dona Francisca, and be broken up the bond of friendship that united them as old, and if
the lady was really angry, throwing on their side, Nina would die of grief, because I could
not live without Doña Paca, whom he loved his good qualities and very nearly their defects.
Anyway, after thinking about all this, and when placed in a large room, choked, fetid, where there
was already a fifty of elderly men and women, ended lie in the loving arms of resignation,
saying: "Whatever God wants. When you go home tell the truth, and if the lady is live for when
I come and do not believe me, I do not believe, and if he gets angry, they get angry; and if I
fired, I bounce, and if I die, I die. "

XXXII

Though Nina does not think and say, well be understood that the distress and dismay Dona Paca on
that sad night surpassed anything that might show the narrator. As time went on, but the maid came
back home, growing anxiety of the housekeeper, who, if at first he missed his partner for the lack in
the material that was soon grew restless, thinking about the misfortune that would have happened:
fuck car, eg, or sudden death in the street. Frasquito sought to reassure the good, but to no
avail. And the old man's faded silent when his fellow would say,
"But if it never happened this, ever, wanted to Ponte!

Not once has failed to home in so many years. "

Serious difficulties for formal dinner, and nothing that the girls ahead cordonera is the informal
offer to replace the missing maid. Doña Paca Truth lost all appetite, and the same, or slightly
less, was happening to their host. But as had no choice but to take something to support the
forces, both were handed an egg beaten with wine and a few pieces of bread. Sleeping, not speaking.
The lady was counting the hours, half and quarter of the night watches in the neighborhood, and
did more than measure the passage end to end, listening to the sounds of the ladder. Ponte not
to be outdone: gallantry forced him to not lie down while his friend and protector was awake,
and to reconcile the obligations of the knight with his ailing fatigue, beheaded a couple
of little dreams in a chair. To adopt a view that was violent, with pillow arms, crossed over the
back, and sleep is hung her head, of what occurred torticollis tremendous
next morning.

At the dawn of God, overcome the fatigue Doña Paca, dormidita stayed on the couch. Spoke in dreams,
and his body shook from time to time with nervous tremors. Awoke shocked, believing he thieves
at home, and on a clear day, with the void of absence Nina, I was more sad and lonely night. According
Frasquito, which in this thought wisely, no trace seemed safer to be informed of the gentlemen in
whose house served Benin assistant. I had thought about her countrywoman also the previous
evening, but as ignorant the number of the house of D. Romualdo across the street from the
Loam, determined not to take investigations. In the morning, having given the goalkeeper to inquire
the whereabouts of the missing servant, he was sent with the order,
and time again saying that in any goal of such street gave reason.

And all these, not in the house rather than some other cooked the day before, almost vinegary already,
and crusts of bread. Thanks to the neighbors aware of the conflict so severe offered the illustrious
widow some food: East, garlic soup, that, fried cod, the other an egg and half a bottle of
bully. There was nothing to eat, making a brave, because nature does not hold: it must live,
although the soul object, fond her friend's death. Slow passing hours of the day, and both Ponte
and his compatriot could not attention away from the noise of footsteps sounded on the stairs.
But many disappointments suffered, that at last, exhausted and hopeless, they sat facing each
other, silent, with rest and severity of sphinxes, and looking at the solution tacitly conferred
enigma to the divine will.

Already know the whereabouts of Nina, or the reasons for his absence, when God deigned to make
them known by the media and ways that never reaches our forecast.

The twelve would be and when we heard a loud bell. Lady Ronda and Algeciras heartthrob jumped, like
rubber dolls in their seats. "No, not her - said Dona Paca with great disappointment -. Nina
not so named. "

And Frasquito wanted out the door she stopped him with his observation
very point: "There you go, Ponte, which could be one of those geese
that come to the store give me a hard time.

To open the child. Caledonia, run to open, and find it: if it is one that we Nina brings news
that happens. If someone in the store, tell them I'm not. "

The girl ran, and returned immediately desalted by saying: "Lady, D. Romualdo. "

Effect of great emotional intensity, it was almost frightening. Ponte rolled over several times
top on one foot, and Doña Paca rose and fell back in his chair about ten times saying: "What
happens ... Now we know ... My God, D. Romualdo home! ... In the living room, Celedonia into the
living room ... I will accept the black skirt ... And I have not combed ... With what facade you get!
... Happens, girl ... My black skirt.

"

Between Algeciras and the girl was dressed in a bad way, and haste
will put the clothes backwards.

The lady was impatient, calling them stupid and giving kicking. Finally arranged in any way,
passes a comb through his hair, and went tumbling into the parlor
where waiting for the priest, standing, looking at photographs of
people in the family, only decoration the mean and stay poor.

"Excuse me, Mr. D. Romualdo - Zapata's widow said that the excitement could not be standing,
and had to throw himself into a chair, after the priest kiss the
hand -.

Thanks God I can express to you my gratitude for his unfailing kindness.

-
It's my duty, ma'am "said the cleric ...-- some surprise - and nothing
you to thank me.

- And tell me now, by God - added the lady, so afraid
of hearing bad news, which could hardly talk -; me know soon.

What has become of my poor child? ".

This name rang in the ear of the good priest like a dog that the lady is lost.

"Does not it seem ?...-- told to say something.

- But you do not
know ...?

Ay, ay! It has been a disgrace, and you hide it, for charity.

"

Burst into bitter tears the unhappy lady and the priest remained perplexed
and silent.

"Madam, for pity's sake, do not grieve you ... Will be, or not what you suppose.

- Nina, Nina of my soul!

- Is anyone in your family, your privacy? Tell me ...

- If Mr. D. Romualdo not tell me the truth not to increase my trouble, I'll thank you infinity ...
But it is better to know ... Or do you want to give me the news little by little to impress me less? ...

-
My Lady - said the priest openly impatient, eager to clear things up -. I will not bring you good
news or bad of the person who cries, nor do I know which person is
that, nor on what grounds you to believe me ...

- Excuse me, Mr.
D. Romualdo.

Benina I thought, my maid, my friend and companion rather had suffered a serious accident at
his home in you, or leave it, or on the street, y. ..

- What else? ... Without doubt, Mrs. Dona Francisca Juarez, there is an error in this that
I must fade, telling you my name: Romualdo Kidron. He played for twenty years the vicariate
Santa Maria de Ronda, and I come to express to you, at the express
request of the other executors, the last will of him who was my best
friend, Rafael García of Antrines, God rest in his glory.

"

If Doña Paca see that land opened up and out of her squad hell, and that descuajaraba up the sky,
casting himself legions of angels, and they met each other forming
a huge phalanx glorious and slapstick, not to stay more stunned and
confused.

Testament inheritance! "What he said was true cleric, or a ridiculous, relentless teasing? What
about this subject was a real person or fake image in the sick mind of the unhappy lady? The
language it hit the palate, and looked at D. Romualdo with terrified eyes.

"Not to scare you, ma'am. On the contrary: I have the satisfaction of communicating Dona Francisca
Juarez the end of their sufferings. The Lord, who has proved beyond doubt and more than compliance
and resignation, now wants to reward these virtues, pulling it to you the sad situation that has
lived so many years. "

Dona Paca fell a trickle of tears from every eye, and not manage to utter a word. What would be your
emotion, which surprise and joy that was erased from his mind the image of Benin as if the
absence and loss of this incident was happened many years ago!

"I understand - continued the good priest straightened his body and his chair closer to with
his hand touching the arm of Dona Francisca - I understand your condition
... No passes abruptly bad luck on the well-being, without feeling
a strong jolt.

The opposite would be worse ... And since it is important thing,
which should preferably occupy their attention, talk about it, lady,
leaving for later the other issue that worries ... You should not
strive both by his maid or friend ... I look!

".

This phrase taken back to the spirit of Doña Paca the idea of ​​Nina and her mysterious feeling
disappearance.

Noting the look and D. Romualdo benevolent intent and optimistic
led to believe that the good Lord, after dispatching the present case,
we speak of For the elderly, which certainly was not very serious.

Soon the mind of the lady vane quick turn around the idea of ​​inheritance, and she grabbed it,
leaving everything else into oblivion, and noting the priest report anxiety, hastened to meet
it.

- Well, you know that poor Rafael passed away on February 11 ...

-
I did not know, no, sir.

God has given you your break ... Ay!

- He was a saint. His only mistake was loathe marriage, ignoring the excellent match that his
friends proposed. The last years he lived in a farmhouse called the
Higueras Juarez ...

- I know.

That farm was my grandfather.

- Exactly: D. Alejandro Juarez ...
Well, as Rafael contracted the disease in Higueras liver which led
to the tomb to the fifty-five years old.

Pity fine fellow, almost as tall as me, lady, with no less vigorous muscle than mine, and a chest
like a bull, and his face brimming with life! ...

- Ah ...

- In our hunts wild boar and deer, never got tired. His pride was stronger than his complexion
very strong. Challenged the showers, hunger and thirst ... Well You
see that oak break like a reed.

A few months after falling ill he could count the bones through the
skin ... it was eating, eating ...

- Ah ...

- And what had resigned
his illness, and how well prepared for death, looking like a sentence
of God, against which there should be protest, but rather a line gay!

Poor Rafael, what piece of angel! ...

- Ah ...

- I no longer lived in Ronda, because he had interests in my town
that forced me to set my residence in Madrid.

But when I learned the seriousness of our beloved friend, I stood
there ... One month I accompanied him and attended ... What a pity
... He died in my arms.

- Ay !...».

These woes were sighs Dona Paca popped out of the soul, like birds escaping from an open cage
on all four sides. With noble sincerity, while petting in his mind the probable inheritance, was
associated with mourning D. Romualdo for the generous Ronda bachelor.

'Well, Madam, died as a devout Catholic after a will ...

- Ah ...

- In which leaves the third of his estate to his niece in the second degree, Clemencia Sopelana
You know? the wife of D. Rodrigo del Quintanar, brother of the Marquis
de Guadalerce.

The two-thirds the intended part of a pious foundation, partly to
improve the situation some of his relatives by family misfortunes,
bad business or other adverse and setbacks, have been less.

You and your children being found in this case, of course which are the most favored, y. ..

-
Ah ... At last God has willed that I would not die without seeing the ignominious end of this
misery. Blessed be a thousand times that gives and takes away the evils, the Just, the Merciful
the Holy of Holies !...».

With this outpouring was in tears the unfortunate Dona Francisca, clasping his hands and putting
knees, the good priest, fearing that such sensitivity ended up in a tantrum, came to the door, clapping
for someone to come ask for a glass of water.

XXXIII

Frasquito himself came to the aid of the water, and D. Romualdo, as
the lady drank and recovered from her emotion, told the deranged knight:
"If I'm correct, I have the honor to talk to D. Francisco Delgado
Ponte ... Algeciras natural ... For many years.

Are you third-degree cousin of Rafael Antrines, whose death will have news?

- Did he die? ... Oh, I did! - Ponte replied very short -. Poor Rafaelito! When I Ronda was in
the year 56, shortly before the fall of Espartero, he was a child, and size. Then we saw in Madrid
two or three times ... He used to come and spend time here in autumn
Real went well, and was a friend of Ustáriz, worked by Rios Rosas
in elections Rivers and Acuña ... Oh poor Rafael!

Great friend, simple and affectionate man, great hunter! ... Congeniábamos in everything except
one thing: he was very rural, very loving rustic life, and I hate the countryside and trees.
I was always a man of populations, large populations ...

- Sit down here - he said D. Romualdo, with such strong slap on an old chair springs, which he arose
a thick cloud of dust.

A moment later, he had heard the luncheon gallant participation in heritage Rafael's cousin, bewildered
by staying in such a way that had to drink, to avoid Faint, let all
the water Dona Francisca.

It is well to note now is the perfect match
between the person of the priest and his Kidron name because of the
stature, strength and even the color could be compared a big cedar
trees that among men, looking at each other's characters, there are
also similarities and relationships. Tallud is cedar, and also beautiful,
noble, wood somewhat brittle, but pleasant and fragrant. For as was
D. Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent
person, of irreproachable conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the
world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius, persuasive
speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short,
procedures orderly arrangement and good as well got along with his
position well off. The feathered tribes of the island were all represented--grouse,
jacamars, pheasants, lories, as well as the chattering cockatoos, parrots, and paroquets. Agouties,
kangaroos, and capybaras fled swiftly at their approach; and all this reminded the settlers
of the first excursions they had made on their arrival at the island.

"Nevertheless," observed Cyrus Harding, "I notice that these creatures, both birds and quadrupeds,
are more timid than formerly. These woods have, therefore, been recently traversed by the convicts,
and we shall certainly find some traces of them."

And, in fact, in several places they could distinguish traces, more or less recent, of the
passage of a band of men--here branches broken off the trees, perhaps to mark out the way;
there the ashes of a fire, and footprints in clayey spots; but nothing which appeared to belong
to a settled encampment.

The engineer had recommended his companions to refrain from hunting. The reports of the firearms
might give the alarm to the convicts, who were, perhaps, roaming through the forest. Moreover,
the hunters would necessarily ramble some distance from the cart, which it was dangerous to
leave unguarded.

In the afterpart of the day, when about six miles from Granite House, their progress became
much more difficult. In order to make their way through some thickets, they were obliged to
cut down trees. Before entering such places Harding was careful to send in Top and Jup, who
faithfully accomplished their commission, and when the dog and orang returned without giving
any warning, there was evidently nothing to fear, either from convicts or wild beasts, two
varieties of the animal kingdom, whose ferocious instincts placed them on the same level. On
the evening of the first day the colonists encamped about nine miles from Granite House, on
the border of a little stream falling into the Mercy, and of the existence of which they had
till then been ignorant; it evidently, however, belonged to the hydiographical system to which
the soil owed its astonishing fertility. The settlers made a hearty meal, for their appetites
were sharpened, and measures were then taken that the night might be passed in safety. Had time to leap to the home of Weasel, and re- point to return to
his home of Dona Bernarda. Said and done. A moment later came diligent in the hypocritical old
tabernuca that faces the public in the establishment above, and the first thing he saw there was
the picture of Luquitas abominable, the husband of Obdulia, with other lost and two or three ragged
women, playing cards in a dirty circular coffee table, between glasses of Carignan and Camus.
At the time of going to Benin, had just a game, and before you put your other hand, the son of
Doña Paca shot foul on the table cards, dirt racing in the hands of the players stood up unsteadily,
and language and fine half-confused, which usually employ drunk, offered the maid of his mother
a glass of wine. "Stand back, sir, I've drunk ... We thank ...»-- said the old woman, rejecting
the cup.

But so heavy was the gentleman, and such others chanted insistently calling Mrs. drank, that he
was afraid, and took half the contents of sticky glass. No I wanted to be wrong with this mob,
so he could thunder, and without wasting time bickering getting into the vicious Luquitas,
by the neglect in which his wife had, went straight to its object: "What is not around the Pitusa?

-
Here's to serve - said an emaciated woman, coming out of narrow little
door, well hidden among the shelves filled with bottles and bottles
that were behind the counter.

As a crack that leads to the cache of an eel, so was the door, and the exemplary women thinner,
stunted and elusive that could be found in wildlife such females belong. His face was so thin
that when you see him in profile could tenérsele built sheet, as the figures of the vanes. In his
neck did not fit more seams, and a your ears earring hole was so big that he could get with
all a finger play. Jagged teeth and black, bald eyebrows, eyelashes, bleary, the tender eyes,
lynx-eyed, completing his physiognomy. The body does not have to say but which are difficult
to find exactly comparable ways to those of a broomstick dress, or, if desired, covered with
rags scrubbing floors, arms and hands, that gesture seemed whipped, as a fox runs like dusting
the face of the interlocutor of his speech and accent, which sounded as if gargling, and strangely
enough, I will say also to give complete idea of ​​the person, that all these externalities unpleasant
it appeared a breeze of kindness, a moral attractive, so ensuring that the Pitusa term was not
far from unfriendly.

- "What brings you here Benina Sena? - Said shaking hard on both shoulders -. I heard tell
you were in big, rich house ... Ya, and will bring good rebañaduras ... And you have no bad
cat! ...

- Daughter, no ... That a century ago. We are now in decline.

- What? Would you go wrong?

- Pulling, pulling.

If soups, eat, and if not, nothing ... And the Weasel, is it?

-
What you want, Sena Benina?

- Daughter, you know him wonder, if healthy.

-
We argue.

The wound is opened when you least think.

- Oh dear ... Tell me something else ...

- Send me.

- Let me know
if you picked up at your house to a gentleman who called Frasquito
Ponte, and if we have here yet, because I said that last night was
very bad.

"

In reply, the Pitusa Benina sent him to follow, and both, stooping,
slipped through the hole that served as a gateway between the estantillos
the counter.

The other partly tore a very narrow staircase, which rose by one after another.

"It's a decent person, as they say, character - added Benina, safe
and to find there the unfortunate gentleman.

- De la grandeur.

Ensure here where titles come to stop. "

For a smelly and dirty corridor came to a kitchen where not cooked.

Cooker and kitchen shelves served as a reservoir of empty bottles, broken boxes, broken chairs
and lots of rags. On the ground, on a miserable pallet lay full length D. Ponte Francisco in
sleeves shirt, still, the face was broken. Two big women, kneeling on either side, the one
with a glass of wine and water, rubbing poking the other, we were shouting: "Come back in yes
... What the hell is wrong? ... That is just maulería. Do not want to drink more? ".

Benin, fennel, it was also yelling, shaking, "D. Bottle of my soul, what is that? Open your eyes
and see me: I am the Nina. "

Soon the two tarascas which, incidentally, if foul and ugly to bet there would be no who will win,
not long, say, to give the elderly the explanations of the event asked. Ponte unsupported in the
chambers of Bernarda arrimose the doorway of the chapel Irishmen for the night. There he found
them, and began to give jokes to say things ... masters ... things said and were not to be offended.
Total: the poor poor old man painted it had to be uncomfortable, and chase them with the stick
raised to beating, pataplum, round fell to the ground. Released them laughing, thinking he had encountered;
but when he did not move, came, also came near the serene, he began to face the torch and then saw
it was an attack. Húrgale here, húrgale there, and the good lord as a dead body. Called the
Weasel, discouraged him, saying it was all a sincopiés, and as it is charitable, good Christian
he, and had also studied a year of Veterinary sent bring him home to assist and give back his breath
with poultices and rubs.

This was done by charging between the two and another partner, because the patient weighed a bunch
reeds, and at home, pinches and rubs force, came to himself, and thanked them so kind. The Pitusa
asked him some soup, he took with relish, giving each time the most thank very much ... so
fine, and so remained until the morning, well apañadito on his pallet. They could put in a room
all night because there was just the unemployed, and there in the
old kitchen was very good, being part of ventilation.

The worst thing was that morning when he rose to leave, he repeated the attack, and all gave day
long every hour a syncope so tremendous, that was a corpse, and it was hard to get back to God
and help itself. Had left him in shirtsleeves, because he complained heat, but there was the clothes
without anyone to touch her, nor anything of what toil he had in
his pockets.

Weasel had said that if not recovered in the night, would part of the delegation to bring him
to the hospital.

Pitusa Benina said the pain was sent to the hospital to such an illustrious matron, and she is
determined to take him home, yes ... Struck the mind of the old one bold idea, and the resolution
was primary quality of his character, he hastened to put it in implemented expeditiously. "Want
to hear a word now? - Pitusa told her, seized her the arm out of the kitchen. And at the end
of the hall, entered the room only vividera of the house: a bedroom
with double bed iron hook point quilt, mirrors twisted sheets of concubines,
comfortable crippled, and San Antonio in its base, with flowers rag
and oil lamp.

The dialogue was quick and nervous

"What is offered?

- Well, not
much.

Lend me ten dollars.

- Sena Benina, are you in your mind?

- In them I am, Teresa Rabbit, as it was when I lent you a thousand
real, and I saved to go to jail ... Do not you remember?

It was the year and day of the cyclone that ripped trees the Botanical
... You live on the streets of the Governor, and I in St. Augustine,
where he served ...

- Yes, I agree.

I met you that we bought together ...

- I saw a strong commitment.

-
I was beginning to roll down the world ...

- And rolling, rolling,
fell into temptation ...

- And how you served in big house, I figured
I said, 'Well, that, if you want, you can get me.

"

- You came to me with fear ... what happens ... did not want to lift
your skirt, and I will leave you uncovered.

- But you covered me
... I thanked much, Benin!

- And revenues ... Then you, as you made
peace with the wine store, I paid ...

- Hard on hard.

- Well, now
I'm the one that has fallen: I need two hundred reals, and you'll
give them to me.

- When?

- Right now.

- Mecachis ... San God As
I can not return money chickpeas fireplace!

- Did not you?

"Neither you nor Weasel?

- We like the cock of Moron ... And why do you want the ten dollars?

-
For what you do not mind.

Say yes to me or give me the days. I will pay it soon; and if you
want real hard, there incomeniente.

- It's not that: it is that I
have no quarter cut in half.

This does not bring cattle indecent but misery.

- Válgate God!

"Y. ..?

- No, I have no jewelry.

If it did ...

- Looking good, teacher.

- Well, good. There are two rings.

Not mine: they are the King of Clubs, a friend of Rumaldo that gave them to keep and Rumaldo
gave them to me.

- Well ...

- If you give me your word play within
eight days and bring it to me, but word formal, San God!

Take them ... Give ten long, because one of them has a bright which
gives the falls.

"

Little more was said. Firmly closed the door so no one could pry from the hallway. If someone
did, would not have heard more than a blink of the dresser drawers,
a whisper of Benin, and harsh gargle of the other.

XXII

Soon the two women back next to the collapsed Frasquito, entered the Weasel, which was Achille
a strapping young man of fine appearance, with complexion and features some gitanescas, wide-brimmed
hat, well tight waist, and the first thing he said was soon to be
conducted on interfezto Hospital.

Benina protested, arguing that the disease was Ponte those requiring
home treatment and family at the hospital would die without remedy,
and thus worth more than it will take home of Dona Francisca Juarez,
which, although it had been very least, still was in position to make
a charity, housing countryman Mr. de Ponte, with whom he had, if I
remember, distantly related.

In this he turned his fading the poor lover, and recognizing his benefactress, he kissed her
hands, named Angel, and what I know why, very joyful to see her at his side. With an imperious
gesture, followed by a kick, the Pitusa urchin ordered the two to leave his duty in the front door;
The Weasel fell to ship, and standing alone the Benina and her friend to the poor Ponte, I
wore the coat to take him away and Levitin.

"Here in confidence, D. Bottle - he said Benina - tell us why did not I sent.

- What, ma'am?

- To Bernarda peseta, on account of nights due ... Or is that the penny was spent on something
he needed a guess, in painting the face of the mustache? In this case, I say nothing.

- Cosmetic, no ... I swear it - Frasquito answered with languid accent,
drawing from his mouth words as with a hook -.

Wasted ... but not that ... I had to pro ... pro ... if I will say
at the end ... to provide a photo ... graphy.

"

He fumbled in the pocket of his coat, paws and between letters and
papers, took one that unfolded, showing a photographic portrait, regular
card size.

"Who is this Madame? - Said Pitusa who promptly picked it up for consideration
-.

As beautiful, it is ...

- I wanted - continued Frasquito breath taking each syllable - Obdulia show their perfect likeness
...

- Well, this picture is not the girl - staring Benina said -.

Something you find in the face cut, but is not it.

- Tell you if it looks or not. For me they are identical ... The one or the other, is like that.

- But who is?

- The Empress Eugenie ... But do not see it? He had not only home of Laurent, and not gave
less than a quarter ... Forced to buy it, show the similarity Obdulia
...

- D. Bottle, by the Virgin, we see that to believe you're gone
... Spend the peseta !...». portrait

Sure did not give the poor gentleman,
and carefully keeping the cardboard, buttoned his coat and tried to
stand up, operation could not perform complicated by the extraordinary
weakness of his legs, no thicker than drumsticks.

With the readiness to use used in cases like this, Benin went to take a car, for which previously
had to evacuate another measure of the utmost importance. But as was so executive, soon dispatched, with
ten dollars in his pocket, he returned to Big Midi cab car taken by the hour, and the door the
house stumbled upon Petra drunkenness and his companion Fourth and kilo, which the tavern shouting
out.

- "Yeah, we know that they said took him to tinkle ...-- -. Well behaved women of course, they
consider a man ... Well, well, that's cum ... Well you see you can.

-
Let's see ...!

But as you do not mind, I say ... So what?

- For na ... Finally, relief.

- Glad to have you at the Almudena blind!

- What happens?

- That the lady has waited all afternoon ... I had to go, if the gentleman
was looking for puny!

...

- A recadito gave us to you in case you saw.

- What?

- See if I remember ... Ah! themselves, do not buy the pan ...

- The pot of seven bujeros ... he has brought from his land.

- So what? Are you going to put strainers factory? If not, why are so many omen?

- Shut the very big mouths. Ea, with God.

- And we drive. What a luxury! How do we know who runs the loot!

- That you calléis ... I might as well help lower and put him in the car.

- Well yes. Heart and soul. "

Of entertainment served to all home and outside. It was a noisy function immediately down to Frasquito
are singing songs in funeral, and saying a thousand jokes applied him and the Benin, insensitive
to the outpourings of the vile villain, got into his car, leading
the Andalusian gentleman like a bundle of clothes, and ordered the
driver to bite Imperial Street, snuff taking care of the horse well.

It was not, as is easy to suppose, loose Dona Francisca surprise to see that you got in the house apparently
dying body, transported between Benin and a porter.

Poor Lady had spent the afternoon and evening in mortal anxiety,
and saw a strange thing, believed to have turned the dream or direction.

But the naughty maid hastened to reassure saying that this was no corpse, and its shabby could
be inferred, but sick grave, D. himself Frasquito Ponte Delgado, born in Algeciras, who had found
on the street, and without going into further explanation of the
unprecedented event, came to comfort the Doña Paca troubled spirit
with the betrothal took news that its tough new bag odd, it adds up
to attend to more urgent commitment, and breathing for a few days.

-
"Oh, you take my weight off of my soul - said Mrs. raising hands -.

The God bless you. We're in a position to a charity, picking up this unfortunate ... See?
God in one time point and supports us and says it protects. The favor and obligation accompanying
health.

- We must take things as they have ... wagging the thunder.

- And
where to put this poor scarecrow? - Doña Paca said to Frasquito feeling
that, although I was not unconscious, barely speak or move, lying
on the holy soil arrimadito to the wall.

"

And after marriage and Antonito Obdulia had been sold these beds,
a dispute arose domestic installation, Nina decided to propose to
assemble your bed the little room in the dining room to put it to
the poor sick.

She would sleep on a mattress on the mat, and it would, and would if it were possible to boot
the wretched old nails death.

"But my soul Nina, have you thought through the load that we have
caught up with ...?

You who can not, take me back, and said the other.

Do you think that we are ourselves to get us a protective one?

... But just tell me: Was D. Romualdo blessed who ...?

- Yes, ma'am,
"replied the old ...-- Rumaldo, that stunning was not prepared to
lie.

- Blessed, blessed a thousand times sir!

- She ... Teresa Rabbit.

-
What, woman?

- I say ... But you are not aware of what I mean?

-
You said ... Perchance a hunter D. Romualdo?

- Hunter?

- As you
said do not know what a rabbit.

- He does not hunt, but he was given
... I do not know ... so many things ... partridge, rabbit, field
... Then this afternoon ...

- I, I said, 'Benin, to see how I put
this rabbit morning that brought me ...'.

- Asked if there were to
be in gazpacho or rice, were disputed, and as I said nothing and I
burst into tears, 'Benin, what do you have?

Benin, what's wrong ?...'.

In short, rabbit's foot took the trouble to tell him that I saw ...».

Doña Paca convinced no longer thought only Frasquito install, which
did not seem realized what was happening.

At last when he had gone to bed, recognized the widow of Juarez and showing their gratitude with
handshakes and warm sigh, said:

"This child, this mother ... You are the spitting image of Montijo.

- What does this man?

- Gives because all we seem a. ..

I do not know who ... the emperors of France ... Finally, quit.

- Am I in the palace in the Plaza del Angel? - Ponte said considering the miserable alcove with missing
eyes.

- Yes, sir ... Arrópese now;'re very still to take the dream.

Then he will make a good broth ... and live. "

They left him alone, and began again Benina the street, eager to cover the opening to creditors
rude, that impertinent and shameless pressure overwhelmed the two women. God great pleasure
of bringing them to the harsh hills that they had made more provisions, was to the streets
of Rue, and with her basket full of good food and the heart of hope, thinking freedom from the shame
of begging, at least for a couple of days, returned home. Methodical promptly went to work in
the kitchen, accompanied by his mistress, who was also smiling and joyful. "You know what happened
to me - told Benina - at the time you've been away? Well I was dormidita on the couch, and dreamed
that two men came home grave clothes black. Were D. Morquecho and D. Francisco José María Porcell,
my countrymen, who came to involved the death of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines, carnal
uncle of my husband.

- Poor lord is dead! - Nina cried with all my heart.

- And that D. Peter Joseph, who is one of the first rich men of the Highlands ...

- But tell me, is what I dreamed account or is it?

- Wait, woman.

These two gentlemen came, D. Francisco and D. José María, a physician,
the another town clerk ... they came to tell me that the Antrines
Garcia, uncle flesh of my Antonio, I was appointed probate ...

-
Ya ...

- And ... the thing is clear ... as such had no direct succession,
naming heirs ...

- Who?

- Be quiet, woman ... It left half of his
assets to my children Obdulia and Antonito, and the other half to
Frasquito Ponte.

What do you think?

- That the blessed Lord should make him a saint.

- They told D. Francisco and D. José María you were looking for days to let me know inheritance,
and wondering here and there, finally found out the address of this house ... Say by whom?
by the priest D. Romualdo, already proposed to the bishop, who told I also had picked Mr. de
Ponte ... 'So - I said, laughing - that come to offer you our respect,
my lady, kill two birds with one stone.

"

- But let's accounts: this is, as they say, dreamed.

- Sure: Have not you heard that I fell asleep on the couch? ... As these two gentlemen who
were to visit, died thirty years ago, when I was the girlfriend of
Antonio ... just imagine ... and García de los Antrines was very old
then.

I have not heard from him ... Yes, all has been the work of a dream, but so vividly that even I
find that I am looking ... Te I tell it to laugh ... no, it is laughable
that dreams ...

- Dreams, dreams, whatever they want - Nina said
- are also from God, and who will know what is true and what is false?

-
Cabal ... Who tells you that behind or below or above this world we
see, there is no another world where people live who have died?

... And who tells you that dying is nothing fashion and lifestyle? ...

- Below, underneath is all that - said the other meditatively -.

I make the dream case because it could happen, a comparison, that those who come here go over there
and bring us the remedy for our ills. Below ground there is another world, and the point is
to know how and when we can talk to the living Soterraña. They have to know how badly we here,
and we dream we see how well you go over there ... I do not know if I explain ... say there
is no justice, and for the Haig, will dream whatever we please, and dreaming, a guess, here we
will bring justice. "

Doña Paca replied with a string of sighs drawn from the depths of his chest, and Benin was
launched, with fever and tenacity of a fixed idea, to think again about the wonderful spell.
Restless tinkering in the kitchen, my mind's eye, I saw only the pot of seven bujeros, laurel
stick, clothing, and prayer ... Démontrer of prayer! This really that was hard!

XXIII

Everything was fine the next morning: Don Frasquito improving
hour by hour, and the entendederas middle state clearly, Doña Paca
happy, well-stocked home vittles, that the next day and insured, so
the poor could Benina rest of his pitiful bid in San Sebastian.

But to be so necessary to sustain the comedy of their care at the home of church, went as usual, the
basket on his arm, ready to keep the morning and do something useful. Upon leaving his mistress
said: "I think we'll have to make a gift our D. Romualdo ... It should show that we are grateful and
well educated. Bring from me two bottles of Champagne a good brand to accompany them stew,
you do today, the rabbit.

- But she's crazy, lady? Do you know what they cost two bottles of Champagne? We pawn for three
months. You will always be the same. For like both look good, is now so poor. And we will give
when we drop the lottery, because today is not going to look I who
give one penny at a tenth of those three.

- Well, well: go with God.

"

And it was the lady to talk to Frasquito, which was animated and talkative. One and one evoked memories
of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events;
you talk and talk, Doña Francisca walked out the registration of his
dream, but was saved well to tell the citizen.

"Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines?.

" After a painful espurgo in obscure folders of your memory, said Vial that D. Peter had died
the year of the Revolution.

"Go, go, and I thought he was still alive. Do you know who inherited their property?

- As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry. And goes for old.

It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me,
as it has closer relatives.

- Ay! do not doubt you, will remember
...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the word -.



The ill-treatment inflicted on Ayrton was now redoubled. His hands and feet still bore the
bloody marks of the cords which bound him day and night. Every moment he expected to be put
to death, nor did it appear possible that he could escape.

Matters remained thus until the third week of February. The convicts, still watching for a
favorable opportunity, rarely quitted their retreat, and only made a few hunting excursions,
either to the interior of the island, or the south coast.

Ayrton had no further news of his friends, and relinquished all hope of ever seeing them again.
At last, the unfortunate man, weakened by ill-treatment, fell into a prostration so profound
that sight and hearing failed him. From that moment, that is to say, since the last two days,
he could give no information whatever of what had occurred.

"But, Captain Harding," he added, "since I was imprisoned in that cavern, how is it that I
find myself in the corral?"

"How is it that the convicts are lying yonder dead, in the middle of the enclosure?" answered
the engineer.

"Dead!" cried Ayrton, half rising from his bed, notwithstanding his weakness.

His companions supported him. He wished to get up, and with their assistance he did so. They
then proceeded together towards the little stream.

It was now broad daylight. Almudena treated her,
with success, since it was orphaned, and dragged her so, and gave him three things a little:
advice, charity and a stick. Met him one day his scrofula healing with juice fig pear, and aligned
by the hair to the sun. Propúsole to go with them, paying each half of the rent of the house,
and her commitment to root out vice drinking. Discussed, parliament, God solemnly to the convention,
pledging both their faithful adherence to a sticky plaster and broken comb picks, and slept
that night Pedra in the fourth of Santa Casilda. The first few days all was harmony, sobriety drinking,
but the goat was not long in throwing the mountain, y. .. devilish female again having fun
and giving the guys that make the Order.

"Unable to me with it. B'rracha forever. It's a pain ... pain. I be out of pity she Migo ...».

Seeing that the two women, after poked a couple of inks, mocking the
blind looked and Benin, it was afraid and wanted to retire.

"Dir not you, Amri. Migo be - he said the blind man holding her arm.

- I fear that arming these indinas anger ... Come here now. "

Aproximáronse the such, and the Benina could see and examine your face like the Peter, a bleak
beauty and bouncing. Morena, factional as regular as pronounced magnificent black eyes, eyebrows
that join wriggling, and well strummed dirty mouth, which did not
seem made to smile, body straight and esbeltísimo in his weakness
and disarray, the companion Almudena was a tragic figure, and as such
Benina impressed, although this did not express his trial, but thought
that you'd be afraid to meet that person, at night, instead alone.

From Diega could not determine if it was young or between-old. For like a child's height; the
emaciated face and neck rugged, all folds, a decrepit old woman, for the eyes, a lively little
animal.

His weakness was so extreme that he could not help Benina comment Andalusian mentally to use
a phrase used to his wife: "This is one of the thorns that take with
your elbows.

"

Peter sat down, giving good morning, and the other he stood up, without
raising the ground rather than Almudena's head, on whose shoulders
he slaps strong.

"Tati still - he said this brandishing the stick.

- Beware of he
who is evil and treacherous ...-- said the other.

- Jai ... Is it
true that you are wrong and you hit me?

- I ero beno, you bad, b'rracha.

-
Do not say that the old lady will be shocked.

- Elderly not be her.

-
What do you know if you do not see?

- Decent her.

- Yes it will,
without offending.

 He
learned Herbert's adventures, and through what various trials the colonists had passed. As
to the settlers, they had despaired of ever seeing Ayrton again, and had been convinced that
the convicts had ruthlessly murdered him.

"And now," said Cyrus Harding, as he ended his recital, "a duty remains for us to perform.
Half of our task is accomplished, but although the convicts are no longer to be feared, it
is not owing to ourselves that we are once more masters of the island."

"Well!" answered Gideon Spilett, "let us search all this labyrinth of the spurs of Mount Franklin.
We will not leave a hollow, not a hole unexplored! Ah! if ever a reporter found himself face
to face with a mystery, it is I who now speak to you, my friends!"

"And we will not return to Granite House until we have found our benefactor," said Herbert.

"Yes," said the engineer, "we will do all that it is humanly possible to do, but I repeat we
shall not find him until he himself permits us."

"Shall we stay at the corral?" asked Pencroft.

"We shall stay here," answered Harding. "Provisions are abundant, and we are here in the very
center of the circle we have to explore. Besides, if necessary, the cart will take us rapidly
to Granite House."

"Good!" answered the sailor. "Only I have a remark to make."

"What is it?" Even a box to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground,
dazed with awe and surprise, but it sure would not find among all Paris hetairae a more discreet,
distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia, and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon
and the Eiffel Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today and
could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain
why. Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace, lightness
and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the speed
of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he had continued
history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the Tauchnitz edition,
and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular, the use of some years
of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also to the conciseness
Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of their homeland,
I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning and without sleep,
the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not write for me to read Pericles,
but to read to the men of the day. And as men of the day like many of his novels, Zola has great merit,
and as I say, no evidence against it.

My reply is clear. I do not want to infer or infer anything about the merits of the novels Zola.
Were written to please in the day, and this has been achieved. Is it enough credit. All I hope to demonstrate
is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress of art. It is clear that
Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost
clear that not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious
character who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like,
remember the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours
will seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage
of the deepest in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on
all the old, and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions.
This leads to the Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and
stunned. What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate
what Nature and even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say
nothing if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released
to walk and even open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist. And still be the
more the wonder of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows in belly and chest
to the figures mentioned above and to lift them gently and without any damage the brains out.
The Athenian then exclaim, like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

Today
the advance science that is an outrage.

      
    

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the brains
many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the place,
several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies
come, Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings, good and evil, which
can quickly become crimes or deeds, in moralizing or subversive speeches, works of charity or rapes
and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as he calls Mr. Reyles to his
art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance. Hence,
in a sense, may well be argued that it is more difficult to make a shoe that compose a poem. And
it is still easier and requires less propaedeutic writing a novel for which, prosody, art meter
and rhyming dictionary care little or nothing. So conceived, without any surprise, the vast number
of novels that make up now English, French, Russian, Italian, German, Hungarian, Polish, in
short, almost all the languages ​​spoken and written in the various civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo. The office is easy to learn and the better instrument for making or
manufacture, or tongue or pen, is handled with less effort and more naturally, not because the
chisel or the brush but the spade or hoe, where something everyone educated type or write
novels. So the material cost is spent on writing them less and is more affordable to everyone
that spent on other duties. For three thousand pesetas bought sheets of paper, which, while
not smearing but one hand comfortably fit two novels not short dimensions.

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to stand
out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic judgments,
if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone refined and
cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists that Eugene
Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse
have been the twentieth part of the favor of the public, sale and
the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the endless adventures
of Rocambole.

"This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée
ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long overdue and still prefer the
coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth has not come to be discovered,
only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead and buried, and by virtue of the public
art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good, and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy,
they have opened the springs and legitimate sources of inspiration to produce works that not
only pleasing in the day, but that already contain the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel
future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education
and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable. The right way, art infallible to write novels
would be found, and for the world should stay away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably
falling into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that
then everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy
and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the
world right recent years they have had in appearance at least, the
more influence on political events and social, not written in Paris
and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current
of opinion, leaving away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading
over its action on the human spirit.

Thus, novels, not of fine art and deep, but with little or no art, though written in a happy
moment and appropriate, have achieved more success, have had greater resonance, they imported more on social
changes in the great historical facts, that all this novelty as praised by Mr. Reyles.

Take for example of what I say Uncle Tom's Cabin, by Mrs. Beecher
Stowe, the which is then sold hundreds of thousands of copies, resulting
in all languages, perhaps inflamed abolitionist sentiments and went
for something in causes of the terrible Civil War.

It is, therefore, not deep and exquisite art, or the subtle and unprecedented teaching peregrina truths,
nor more than inspiration, and the refinement of the latest fashions from Paris, nor the delicacy of
style, and other rare pieces of literature, giving the palm and laurel wreath an author of
novels, is to reach a timely manner and without fear of being dragged current.

Further evidence of the truth itself gives us a novel of Mr. Bellamy,
Anglo-American citizen also, a novel which sold nearly four hundred
thousand copies, a little to see the public.

The novel was what we call a socialist or communist utopia. Imagined the author in the not too
distant future. The social revolution had already been done. The new system regular and going
nicely. The whole world had become a real city of Cockaigne, and the human race eat, drink,
be entertained and worked little, without haste or misery.

The novel Mr. Bellamy came on time and it owes its success. Well it could be said so with much
less reason to say that Voltaire said blinds Montesquien Letters: These letters blinds so
easy to compose! ¡...!

I do not intend to lower or praise here the merits of French and Russian
novels, which commends Mr. Reyles, or these other American novels
that I have mentioned.

I say only that they have been timely, and is this a great achievement. Also, I when I write novels,
I try to be timely, and if I'm not, it's because you miss the opportunity. But what does the
opportunity a fine art and newly invented deep with our novels make you feel appropriate men of our
time more deeply than it did with other appropriate novels others feel the public of past
centuries in which they lived? This is the farce I do not admit and that seduced Mr. Reyles. This
is the hablerie and (let me the expression) the Parisian blague, why, is that with all due respect,
I think is also somewhat discreet and eloquent seduced my friend Dona Emilia Pardo Bazan, who
still write better than they write and compose original works and spontaneous, if left less influenced
by such blague.

La blague up point if further argues that the novel of the day should be crammed education, all
documents should be human and contain more profound doctrine that of books intended to teach and not
to delight. Would be curious if anyone studies history in Alexandre Dumas, geology and cosmography
in Jules Verne, Zola sociology, in psychology Bourget, and internal pathology in several other novelists.

Course,
who writes a novel, and takes for items or materials which write cases of ordinary life and ordinary
observed by him, you can also take doctrines, beliefs, hopes, dreams, religious and metaphysical
ideas, and resolution everything fits in the human mind and shakes. But taking all this as elements
of Art is not appropriate in my view, that strives to be didactic, because they expose you to
teach less and worse than what you teach the poorest of the manuals and go back on his vocation
as an artist, without creating the beauty and aesthetic delight without producing the vain efforts
of patenting and unprecedented disclose truths.

It is noteworthy, finally, that it contain the science in art, far from progress in a way no turning
back. Science has broadened so much that does not fit the mold artistic even though the mold and also
widen to become deformed, as in the novel, where an author can flow
freely over all things and many more.

However, a perfect work of literary art can not but confined within certain terms. What put them
off to have some monstrous impertinence. And in this meaning I will not deny that a novel therapy
can be taught, political economy, theology mystical metallurgy or as desired.

If it is fashionable stuff in all these novels, novels like fashion while duration, such is
the power of fashion, but beyond it, no human being who suffers the
novel teacher.

The sure to please all ages and will always be read and celebrated, will be the concerned only to
create beauty, and with elements of common life, and taken to elements ideas, doctrines and beliefs that
drive the author's mind and the minds of others men. Even so, it's enclosed in a novel or
a poem to know, not didactic purpose, but with aesthetic, former
lead us tremendous advantage.

Homer in the Iliad was able to As in his time was known and not a little of what was in germ
and in the future should be known or invented. And the Divine Comedy of Dante, is well less
comprehensive science. I admire much to Dante, but I can not believe they are only mentioned in
his poem theologies and philosophies that in more detail, clarity,
substance and can be studied in order San Anselmo, San Bernardo, Peter
Lombard, St. Bonaventure, St. Thomas Aquinas and other Doctors of
the Middle Ages.

So if I think of Dante, what do you think of Zola and what I believe Zola who can teach me,
not learn best in any encyclopedic manual: the Bouillet, for example?

And just what was said, because it seems like a joke and laugh the evidence and arguments adduced
to hold true as common sense and so overt.


Pencroft and Ayrton, the most zealous workmen at the new vessel, pursued their labor as long
as they could. They were not men to mind the wind tearing at their hair, nor the rain wetting
them to the skin, and a blow from a hammer is worth just as much in bad as in fine weather.
But when a severe frost succeeded this wet period, the wood, its fibers acquiring the hardness
of iron, became extremely difficult to work, and about the 10th of June shipbuilding was obliged
to be entirely discontinued.

Cyrus Harding and his companions had not omitted to observe how severe was the temperature
during the winters of Lincoln Island. The cold was comparable to that experienced in the States
of New England, situated at almost the same distance from the equator. In the northern hemisphere,
or at any rate in the part occupied by British America and the north of the United States,
this phenomenon is explained by the flat conformation of the territories bordering on the pole,
and on which there is no intumescence of the soil to oppose any obstacle to the north winds;
here, in Lincoln Island, this explanation would not suffice.

"It has even been observed," remarked Harding one day to his companions, "that in equal latitudes
the islands and coast regions are less tried by the cold than inland countries. I have often
heard it asserted that the winters of Lombardy, for example, are not less rigorous than those
of Scotland, which results from the sea restoring during the winter the heat which it received
during the summer. Islands are, therefore, in a better situation for benefiting by this restitution."

"But then, Captain Harding," asked Herbert, "why does Lincoln Island appear to escape the common
law?"

"That is difficult to explain," answered the engineer. "However, I should be disposed to conjecture
that this peculiarity results from the situation of the island in the Southern Hemisphere,
which, as you know, my boy, is colder than the Northern Hemisphere."

"Yes," said Herbert, "and icebergs are met with in lower latitudes in the south than in the
north of the Pacific."

"That is true," remarked Pencroft, "and when I have been serving on board whalers I have seen
icebergs off Cape Horn."

"The severe cold experienced in Lincoln Island," said Gideon Spilett, "may then perhaps be
explained by the presence of floes or icebergs comparatively near to Lincoln Island."

"Your opinion is very admissible indeed, my dear Spilett," answered Cyrus Harding, "and it
is evidently to the proximity of icebergs that we owe our rigorous winters. I would draw your
attention also to an entirely physical cause, which renders the Southern colder than the Northern
Hemisphere. In fact, since the sun is nearer to this hemisphere during the summer, it is necessarily
more distant during the winter. This explains then the excess of temperature in the two seasons,
for, if we find the winters very cold in Lincoln Island, we must not forget that the summers
here, on the contrary, are very hot."

"But why, if you please, captain," asked Pencroft, knitting his brows, "why should our hemisphere,
as you say, be so badly divided? For what purpose? How long? ...

Aragon finally dared to ask who was the person to whom he owed his freedom.

- Come on - with some little voice said Bozmediano irrelevant .-- Well you know what I want say.
Fu is not necessary to pronounce name.

It is natural to make you look the other way. As his self-flattering to be wanted by a person
of such merit .... Do not be ungrateful young, she does not deserve.

- I do not know what you mean - Lazarus said in the tone of an examinee disengaged that is slow
to repeat the question he does not know the answer.

Bozmediano talked more, but came to say that. A Lazarus seemed a wrong to infer Clara publishing
his affection, so honest and sensitive place confidence in the knowledge
of an outsider, yes, because Bozmediano was an intruder, who had gone
to give freedom without that no one asked.

- Well you know whom I
mean - Claudio said, slapping him on the shoulder with simplicity
and trust - but as you are so proud to be boyfriend of that girl,
it gives you that tone.

- Oh! no - said the nephew Coletilla ashamed
.-- The truth is I do not know who that person you say.

Bozmediano shook hands and made him young Aragonese many offers and protests friendship. The
other was so stunned, answered it wrong and discourteous.

- I know where you live - Claudio said retreating - we'll see.

And if not in Fontana, whither I frequently.

And broke.

When he was at some distance, Lazarus felt compelled to run to him
thank you with more respect, but he fought the pride and jealousy.

Let him go without saying anything.

Bozmediano was saying to one another with much satisfaction:

- Very vulgar, very vulgar ....

CHAPTER XXII

# The "ordeal" of Lazarus #.

Lazarus walked on with no fixed address. His sudden and mysterious departure from prison, Bozmediano
knowledge and confusion produced by his words, was prevented by be clear for some time its
difficult and rare situation. But when he was alone and walked a while, he began to realize that
I had nowhere to go or whom to contact, or with whom they live. The words spoken by the old man
let him not doubt about his character.

It was a realistic fan, a lover blind tyranny. With eyes blazing with anger and poisonous speech
and strong, had told him not to his house while it did not change ideas, what to do? It was impossible
to live with misanthropic and cruel man, moody and fierce as a Muslim fanatic. How counter the ideas
of each other!

What could I do? Pretend and being hypocritical? Appearing "a love of tyranny seemed criminal?
"No, that can not be "thought Lazarus. Furthermore, the current turmoil of the parties, pretend
like ideas was worse than profess. The old man could not admit at home. So what determination
should take? Where was I? Would you go back to Ateca? "And Clara?

To remember his unfortunate companion, the young man's thoughts took a different slant. The
idea of ​​the sorrows of that unhappy, doomed to live with one so
disagreeable, began to torment.

Had to go there and see what was happening at home. But how, it was impossible visit his uncle?

Would
he or would not? The need was pressing him. He was alone, overwhelmed by exhaustion, hungry
and naked.

Twelve rooms was all her fortune, because the road had lost a doubloon, and travel expenses
consumed the other.

Meanwhile night was coming and had nowhere sleep. If you went to the house of his friends feared
he would not find them as benevolent as the previous night.

They were also poor, as poor as himself, and could not provide entertainment.

Had to go. It also occurred to him to take the path of his people and become there. Knew a carrier
in the hostel, which would take the credit. But what about Clara?

These were his thoughts when he passed by Fontana. Felt great clamor, he stood mechanically and
had intentions to enter. "No - said controlling himself - will not go." And at the same time
took a step toward the door.

However, fatal attraction drew him to that place, deep in his first and most beautiful illusions.

The
sounds could be heard rumbling in there in your brain as hell echoes
of singular fascination.

He stepped back, turned to move, were consulted, discussed and mentally,
and finally joining the curiosity his instinctive desire to enter,
did not hesitate more and entered.

They were in a very heated discussion. Everywhere there were voices, both in the region turbulent age
in the club.

Which was in the stands came to dominate the noise and could be heard, but soon the screams
drowned his voice again. Was the shameful who had suffered defeat the extremists to the authority
of Morillo, and some had been this issue to a personal level. Jealous of the decencies of society
and the good name of party, some speakers complained to the infamous,
disguised under the name of liberal going to corrupt this assembly,
to make shameful treatment in the name of the King, to buy exalted
eloquence and to promote riots that had no other object than to discredit
liberalism and giving weapons to the reaction.

- Lobos - he said
- disguised as lamb, who come here pretending a love of liberty they
do not have!

They offer gold to pay speakers in a speech that praised the courage
of the ignorant multitude!

- Yes, those infamous - said another speaker
- are preparing for the riots and those who throw stones Ministers'
houses.

The purpose of this association is to hold a permanent professorship of good ideas, direct the
vote, but the sponsor never debauchery, not the scandal, or anarchy.

- No - shouted one speaker, to whom all eyes fixed, and rose-filled
anger to protest against the above words .-- No: there are no traitors.

Those who practice such things not belong to the human race I do not
believe in them, if any, that is to say their names.

Know who they are, learn to know.

- To be told the names! - Repeated a hundred voices.

- You must -
said the first speaker - purify this noble assembly.

Thanks to the infamous the corrupt, run by the cut scores insulting us and our club. That the infamous
out of here!

- That is to say their names! - The crowd responded with a roar.

- No - said another - the sort of men do not exist.

- Yes there is - the first in exasperation exclaimed .-- frequent
this site who come to pay with the gold of King oratory mad frenzy
to town.

- Who!

Who!

- Who of us - he continued - do not know the call Coletilla? It is a realistic fan, an evil agent of
the big house. Do not you know? This man is a snake that glides among us to corrupt the young
speakers. I know that many have received money Instead of speeches
very hot.

The riots absurd that we see every day, what should be? Have no doubt: open your eyes, blind!
Gold are due to Fernando de Borbón, the gold insidious spread of
this man, for that Coletilla.

- Who are the venal?

Whether we realize it.

- Distrust of the perpetrators of riots.

- This is a friend of the
Government - he said pointing to an individual who was in the the
public.

- Friend of the Government? - Said he indignantly .-- Why?

Why I love freedom without license the petition without a fuss?

You love to cedéis anarchy and venality. I am writing to Aragonese, this site is distinguished
by its obscene language and love of the riots.

- How dare you to
say? - Núñez said rising like a fury and apostrophes to first speaker.

-
What leads you to insult my friends, my!

- Yes, sir - cried the other:
- beware of the Aragonese.

A mob stirred the Aragonese day of the procession of the portrait.

Some looked to Lazarus, mute and cold, witnessed the scene.

- And do not hesitate - he went on .-- He who spoke on that occasion
was a vile instrument King's agent.

- It is!

Here it is! - Said one, pointing to Lazarus to the attention of the
entire assembly.

- Yes, the nephew of Coletilla.

- Coletilla Nephew!

Coletilla Nephew! - Repeated many voices.

Frightful tumult echoed throughout the area.

Everyone looked up and Lazarus.

- He who spoke the other night, excited to revolt!

- Troublemaker
of the Plaza Mayor!

- Tagline's nephew!

These last words were the biggest roll of dishonor. Núñez rose to defend his friend; but failed:
her voice was not heard. Many who feared being charged, as were the barrage that fell on Lazarus,
he downloaded on his anger.

- How did you get for the cries of the day of the procession, prendita? - Said from the corner
the August Calleja.

- Away with him!

- Out with the traitors out!

- On the street, into the street!

Lazarus tried at the supreme moment of desperation to collect all his composure to speak, to defend
themselves, to scream, to say to everyone that he was innocent, he was a wretch, a poor devil,
the ultimate beings.

Not listening. He could not speak, nor to defend themselves or to despise: bowed under the unbearable
weight of so much and look so much anger. The crowd redoubled their anger at seeing the wonder
and the prostration of his victim, and after the words came movements: they sent out, pushed
him toward the door, threw him out. The circle it had increasingly narrowed, the unfortunate young
man saw a hundred hands over her body; he was caught, like a snake entwined itself about his
strong throwing knots and squeezing in its sturdy rings. The disturbance, heat, distress,
embarrassment, he stunned even point to lose the clarity of knowledge.

He felt no drag to see who dragging, throwing massive forces of his fists, struck his back, impelled
him out, felt the door open with a bang, felt his body received a strong shock, he felt brave
and free of those terrible arms, fell to the ground. The noise continued around him, composed
mainly of infernal laughter, but finally the noise went away little by little, the wretch began
to experience pain from the fall and the cold ground. Was on the street.

He remained on the floor a few minutes without being clear on his behalf made, and the sweat he covered
his face gave him an impression glacial.

Then acquired exact knowledge of their situation, and saw that he was on the floor, his back
against the wall, tilted forehead, hair fall and stirred. The hat rolled to his side, his
clothes were torn and felt excruciating pain in his left elbow, severely damaged in the fall.
Noise Fontana sounded like the distant swarm: the cries joined the
clapping, and voice sound hectic at times rose on that storm of enthusiasm.

Lazarus

saw around him to three urchins that looked on with derision, and one of them peering a timely
opportunity to remove his hat. Passers they began to be run, and some are tilted curiously to
see if the deceased had fallen or simply fainted. He got up, because that bothered impertinent
curiosity as much as the rumor Fontana to the left, and walked off, turning to the Puerta del Sol
chocks followed him, accompanied by some more, the watchmen ran him squarely in the light of
their lanterns, and bystanders stood watching him walk away, confident that it was dead or had fainted,
but simply drunk.

Increased Montera Street, and asked about the street Oh my God, because he had solved heading
home from his uncle. I no longer hesitated: his determination was fixed, and in that distressing
trance, house fan, whose door had to leave their beliefs, feelings, It seemed a haven of peace.

After
all, the past few days in Madrid had been continued martyrdom, and the idea the apostasy of realistic
home compelled him to do, not bothered much. Was mortally wounded in the imagination, that
is, flanked by its more powerful. It was no longer fiery young man who was believed destined
to great ends, it was a poor disinherited without force of spirit, without hope and without
ideas. I did not know what he thought, could not measure the immensity disorder that required
her relative, but was not resolved into the arms of the former he was able to comfort him.

Came
at last, after asking a lot, God help the street. Saw the number of house, looked at the windows
on the second floor and there was light in the rooms. Was undoubtedly Clara tired of waiting
there, suspicious of him again.

He entered the hall and went steps so agitated and trembling, that
he reached the door he stopped because he could barely breathing.

After a few seconds, he tried to recover, reached out, took the cord
the bell and pulled very gently, because he thought he was going to
embarrass his uncle and to Clara alarm if he played more than necessary
to record the presence inside of an outsider.

But the smoothness with which he threw his trembling hand was such
that the bell did not ring.

Wanted to do with more energy, and as I was so nervous he threw the
hood while thundered home.

Lazarus was frightened, thinking that Elijah was going to go into
a rage, claiming against so ruffled.

Spent a long time without being opened, but finally honored some
clarity through the little window, heard footsteps, a hand drew back
the table, opened, the hole and saw two eyes.

Were not those of Clara.

- Who? - Said the voice from within Pascuala.

Lazarus asked by his uncle.

- Yes but not here.

- Is he coming soon?

I'm his nephew.

Pascuala Lazarus opened the door and took a step inward surprised
not to hear the voice of Clara.

- There will not soon or late, because
it has moved - Alcarrian answered.

- How?

- As has been moved today.

I'm still here, because there are a few things and large closet, and I'm here to take care
pa, but tomorrow I'm leaving.

- And where will you move?

- Near here, on the streets of Bethlehem in a house they call Porreno ladies, which have yielded
the fourth second pa living alone.

- What about Clara? - Lazarus
asked anxiously.

- That makes eight days over there living with the
ladies.

The master put it there because emph her.

- So, to see, what do you say?

- Ah!

"But you is the nephew of the master?

- Yes.

- You Aragon. Tell me, do you know by chance in Cariñena to Ventura Palomino, brother of Jusepe
Palomino, who married Colasa Sanahuja?

- No - Lazarus said impatiently: - I'm not Carignan.

- And do you know if Anton's wife gave birth looms, my boyfriend's
brother Pascual, who I'm getting married next week, God help me?

-
I do not know, sister, do not know these people.

But tell me, why Ciara had gone to live with these ladies?

- Ah, - said laughing with great desire Alcarrian - I remember you
were her boyfriend.

The master sent there because he said he could not stand ... well
... I'll tell you ... the master is, a little ... He said it was a
girl like the day, which was very sardesca ... But she is very good,
and I do not know how the poor could not have sadness in this house.

-
What came to like here?

- In truth, sir ... the master has a genius
as well ... go.

We both stayed dead fear whenever we saw him enter. We never spoke, and at night, after bedtime,
felt giving him a kick.

- Why sent it to the house of these ladies?

- You see, I'm going to tell the truth because it is in the house. There was one that got melitarito
a day at home, she came to accompany the master, who was wounded
in the street.

After passing all day out there, and if I was in the street stopped
me wonder Dona pa Clarita.

Ay! One day I saw my Pascual talking to him, and almost ... my Pascual
has a evil genius, and when emph ... you did not know how to hit the
butcher cachetines over there ... Then, as is a well ... very nice
weekend.

- Follow what was telling: after we know what makes Mr.
Pascual - Lazarus said impatiently by the digressions of the maid.

-
For the melitarito said, offering me money, I wanted to sneak in here.

-
What came?

...

- Wait for you and will continue to count.

No passing the corner, and I love you could see some times. Because the master, but it seems he
does not see anything, oserva everything.

- And she, what did?

- Wait a minute ... He told me he wanted to enter.

- And what he
said it?

- That was beautiful to be here locked up without seeing
the world, it was a pity that a and women living in an old company
so ugly and so ... He said: "I out of here."

- And she knew he said
that?

- Yes, he told him.

- Then there was here - Lazarus said anxiously.

-
Wait for you.

- And she, what did it?

- That was a nice person and
very good treatment, that was a good subject and a very accomplished
gentleman.

One day we got here.

Jesus, what a fright!

- And she, what did?

- He told him to leave.

- What is left?

- Ca: here was talking about
a thousand things.

- And she, what do you say?

- That was because
he was about to commit, for if it was true that she was interested,
to leave at the time, leading not to see you there.

- And he, what
did? - Asked Lazarus, who was beside himself with anxiety.

- A thousand
things, a thousand antics.

The truth is that the master came and saw him. He was very upset, we quarreled a lot.

- And to him, what did you say?

- Nothing. To us it was riñiendo all day.

Then he said it was Dona Clarita crazy, that I was cansao of her
flirtation ... things of old, because she, poor ... finally told him
he was going to send those three old house for the corrected and teaching
good living.

- But why call cause my uncle mad?

What have you done?

- Naa, but the master says that the ideas of the day ...

- What else
did he say? - Asked Lazarus, who never tired of terrible answers of
that fatal interrogation.

- To be applied to prayer and to a holy
life.

- And the military has not seen him more?

- These days I have
been roaming the streets of Bethlehem, and I ... I suppose ....--¿
to see?

What you figure it?

- I suppose ... The crook is melitarito ... bet it has slipped further.

-
Do not you know those three ladies? - Lazarus said, trying to hide
the bad impression the previous response had occurred.

- No: the
master said they are good, and that one is holy.

- Where do you live?

-
Drink On the street, no. 4.

His uncle lives in the same house. And you know.

"Tell me - asked Lazarus, after a pause, he doubted whether to leave
or prolong symposium that painful - say you, that soldier is a tall
young man with black whiskers?

...

- Yes, a little taller than you, has a very clear voice and walk with
grace, and laughs with grace.

- Do not you know his name?

- No,
sir, I was going to find, but as my Easter is so jealous, I was afraid.

Oh, man! When the emph ...

Lazarus was a quiet time contemplating the barbaric image of the woman, says of his misfortune.
Then he repeated the signs of the new house, and left.

And the determination to go there was unwavering, and would have died
before they quit.

Curiosity, jealousy, the need to find a solution to that series precipitated doubt, he drove
toward the new house. And the abjuration required? Almost no thought
already so.

No doubt he could ensure that the military, who spoke Pascuala was it had the same release. New
and painful mystery! Have been many days of life to know everything clearly, and at the same
time be horrified at the thought to know. The idea of ​​disloyalty to Clara, his shame was too
great in his horror, and will not fit on the head. What puzzled him most was the uncanny speed,
impatience fatal that rushed over him so many disappointments, so much bitterness, which gave
no time to find encouragement and hope in his mind and heart.

He entered the house, and slowly climbed the stairs of the Eighteenth Century house. Could not without
a sense of respect for those three ladies, for still unknown him, he looked like three perfect models
of virtue. Touched, and opened one of them.

Decoration affected him a bit: the historical portraits of the hall looked at him with her
eyes all moth-eaten. Lazarus was afraid. Preceded by Paz, among those passed through the dim
shadows the hall was more mysterious, and entered the room.

CHAPTER XXIII

# The Inquisition.

#

When Coletilla after installed on the second floor, the ladies said the probability that his
nephew was to live with him, Salome was a little pensive, but Mary of the Paz said there was
no problem, provided the young, under the supervision and guidance
of his uncle, was to have the restraint and dignity that the house
imposed on its inhabitants.

Lazarus, preceded by Maria de la Paz, entered the room. The first thing that caught his eye
was to Clara, who was sitting next to the devout and sewed his head down, not daring to look to anyone.
She saw his confusion and his efforts to conceal it. Then he looked around and saw his uncle,
sat respectfully beside Salome, whose real were planted at the eastern end Maria de la Paz. Lazarus
he saw them all motionless as stick figures, all watching him, except
Clara, who insisted on bringing both eyes to work, it was difficult
to understand how not kept one eye with the needle.

Elias Lazarus looked in amazement. Peace with astonishment, Salome with amazement, all with astonishment
and he came to believe it was a ghost evoked, the fearful nephew
Coletilla spectrum.

Salome pointed to a chair with his finger when he had the rings,
and Peace said the registration most contemptuous voice and August:

-
Sit down, young gentleman.

When the young man said "thank you, ma'am," his voice sounded weak and painful, so much suffering
announcing and prostration, which Clara could not help looking up and feeling him with sudden
interest.

She found him pale and dejected, and knew what had happened in those unhappy days and took all
the effort that brave soul was able to keep from mourn as a fool in the presence of those three
ladies and furious rigid Coletilla.

- Since these ladies know what you did to get to Madrid - Elias said
his nephew with great severity.

Salome Peace and frowned so no one could doubt his indignation.

Lazarus said, because he was dead of shame, and at that time the
ladies will seemed the two most perfect personification of human justice.

-
Remember what I said when I came to see you to prison?

- Yes, sir,
I have not forgotten.

- I live here in the house of these ladies
who have offered to me and Clara to an asylum.

- Just for you, Don
Elias - Salome said.

- I know, just for me - said the old man .--
But I - Lazarus continued to address - if you I called while in the
other house, now I dare not give hospitality because ....

- Mr Don
Elias - Peace said, - of the above can you have at your leisure.

You know what we have agreed.

Just do it for you.

- I can not - Elijah continued, bowing deeply - I can not say to this boy to stay in this house.
His conduct was so outrageous, that I dare ....

- No need, however large, can not be corrected - Salome said, looking
sublime Lazarus protection unfortunate, whom those words seemed the
height of generosity.

- Effectively - Peace said in a tone of emphatic
indulgence .-- There are such huge mistakes, which its very enormity
need indulgence.

My opinion is that this gentleman should stay with you, Don Elias, because if not, what will
become of him?

Elijah said to understand.

- What will become of him if he still left without a guide? - Continued
the lady .-- As has past we can infer what will happen.



"Stop!" said he.

The boat stopped, and the colonists perceived a bright light illuminating the vast cavern,
so deeply excavated in the bowels of the island, of which nothing had ever led them to suspect
the existence.

At a height of a hundred feet rose the vaulted roof, supported on basalt shafts. Irregular
arches, strange moldings, appeared on the columns erected by nature in thousands from the first
epochs of the formation of the globe. The basalt pillars, fitted one into the other, measured
from forty to fifty feet in height, and the water, calm in spite of the tumult outside, washed
their base. The brilliant focus of light, pointed out by the engineer, touched every point
of rocks, and flooded the walls with light.

By reflection the water reproduced the brilliant sparkles, so that the boat appeared to be
floating between two glittering zones. They could not be mistaken in the nature of the irradiation
thrown from the glowing nucleus, whose clear rays were shattered by all the angles, all the
projections of the cavern. This light proceeded from an electric source, and its white color
betrayed its origin. It was the sun of this cave, and it filled it entirely.

At a sign from Cyrus Harding the oars again plunged into the water, causing a regular shower
of gems, and the boat was urged forward towards the light, which was now not more than half
a cable's length distant. Me Tolaido
Puenta ask ...

- Wait for me tomorrow ... and promise to have the trial.

- Yorando,
yorando me.

- But what are these whining?

... Almudenilla, if I want ... Amos, do not give me trouble.

- Pray you, your house, see gallant Bunite, JACER you fondly.

- Me? You're cool! Yes, yes, so he was! "But you did you think?

If I Valiente I of that fright!

Is older than the Cuesta de la Vega, is a relative of my wife, and This custom was picked to take
home.

- Mam'rracho it!

- And so bullshit! Nor is there any comparisons between him and you ... In short, boy: I have
a great hurry. Goodbye. Until tomorrow. "

Taking advantage of a time when the Moroccan was as parallel, pressed to run, leaving arrimadito to
the wall next to the store called the Jug. It was the only possible way separation, given the
tenacious grip of the poor blind. From afar it looked Benina motionless drooping head. After
a while, he fell on the floor, and there I saw all afternoon bystanders sitting mute, black
outstretched hand.

Nina did not find the big news at home, as such, does not have the happy Doña Paca, who never
ceased to praise the fineness of his guest, and the grace with which the conversation brought
memories of Algeciras and Ronda.

He felt the good woman transported to its green years, almost forget
their poverty, and moved the generous instinct in that first age had
been improvident foundation of his character and his misfortunes,
which proposed to Nina for Frasquito bring two bottles of sherry,
turkey in aspic, egg yolk, and boar's head.

"Yes, ma'am -" said the maid -: all this will bring, and then we go
to jail, to save shopkeepers to take the job.

But have you gone mad? For tonight I will a garlic soup with eggs, and St. Sacabo. Believe me,
you know that gentleman to glory comistrajos used as is indecent.

-
Well, woman.

Do whatever you want.

- Instead of boar's head, will head of garlic.

- I think, with your permission, that in all circumstances, even sacrificing,
should a act like he is.

In short, how much money we have?

- That you do not mind.

Leave it all to me, and I know dress.

When finished, you are not who has to go get it.

- Yeah, I know you and go look for it. I'm no good.

- If you serve, and now, help me peel these potatoes.

- Whatever
you want.

Ah ... I forgot. Bottle drink tea ... and as is so delicadillo, must bring good.

- The best. I'll get him to China.

- Do not laugh. Go to the store and ask the called Mandarin. And while you bring a quesito good
for dessert ...

- Yes, yes ... take you and does not spill.

- You see that you are accustomed to eating in big houses.

- Just: as Boto's Tavern, across the street from Ave Maria ... ration of stew, a real; with bread
and wine, thirty-five cents.

- You are today ... I can not endure. But every avenge me, Nina. You
command.

- Oh, if I did not send, would run pretty! Already we have
taken to San Bernardino or very Pardo. "

Joking and it was evening,
and dine frugally, happy three and resigned to poverty, bad tolerable
and bearable when not needed a piece of bread and to kill hunger.
And the historian should be noted also that the good climate in Doña
Paca was a little twisted collected both in the bedroom, the lady
in your bed, Benin on the floor, having given Frasquito his bed. Zapata's
widow was so mercurial genius, in an instant, without to know the
reason, the goodness went from calm to insane rage, of childish credulity
a crafty distrust of reasonable words the most absurd nonsense. Knew
very well bred this easy turning of the mind and the will of his wife,
whom compared with a weathervane, and without taking to heart their
displeasure and a fit of rage, he hoped that the wind changed. Indeed,
this varied from suddenly veering to the quadrant good, and if in
a moment had become purple thistle, later returns to his first condition.

The
Dona Paca cranky at night I mean it must be attributed, according
to reliable, to Frasquito, in his talks in the afternoon, and the
times for dinner and desktop This showed a preference for Benina that
deeply hurt the pride of the widow unhappy.

"I do."

"It is nevertheless many years since I have held any communication with the inhabited world;
three long years have I passed in the depth of the sea, the only place where I have found liberty!
Who then can have betrayed my secret?"

"A man who was bound to you by no tie, Captain Nemo, and who, consequently, cannot be accused
of treachery."

"The Frenchman who was cast on board my vessel by chance sixteen years since?"

"The same."

"He and his two companions did not then perish in the maelstrom, in the midst of which the
'Nautilus' was struggling?"

"They escaped, and a book has appeared under the title of 'Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the
Sea,' which contains your history."

"The history of a few months only of my life!" interrupted the captain impetuously.

"It is true," answered Cyrus Harding, "but a few months of that strange life have sufficed
to make you known."

"As a great criminal, doubtless!" said Captain Nemo, a haughty smile curling his lips. "Yes,
a rebel, perhaps an outlaw against humanity!"

The engineer was silent.

"Well, sir?"

"It is not for me to judge you, Captain Nemo," answered Cyrus Harding, "at any rate as regards
your past life. I am, with the rest of the world, ignorant of the motives which induced you
to adopt this strange mode of existence, and I cannot judge of effects without knowing their
causes; but what I do know is, that a beneficent hand has constantly protected us since our
arrival on Lincoln Island, that we all owe our lives to a good, generous, and powerful being,
and that this being so powerful, good and generous, Captain Nemo, is yourself!"

"It is I," answered the captain simply.

The engineer and the reporter rose. Clara and Lazarus
seemed that they would not laugh. Silent until a monosyllable here, a gesture there, again to stimulate
the conversation again. Sometimes he would place to meditate as reconsidering what was going
to say, and he who had such a good memory, was that he had forgotten (Another coincidence!)
The admirable pieces of eloquence that had prepared. Did they speak of past, present, the future?
"Devised a plan, raised a project? It is likely None of this would be subject to those intimate
debates: their voices were not anything but express concerns thousand interior painting certain
disturbances of the spirit, ask questions intensely passionate, which replicates the passion increased,
confess secrets, whose depth grew to be confessed, take an oath, to express some doubts, the resolution
was home to a thousand doubts, ask for an explanation of mysteries, engendering endless mysteries;
explain the inexplicable, to measure the infinite, to exhaust the inexhaustible.

Sometimes these communications Ana impenetrable interrupted, saying:

- But, my dear, do not you see how it goes this embroidery? What are you thinking? -

Indeed, Clara, who was embroidering on canvas, with wool colors, a little head angel surrounded
by a garland of flowers, he had red eyes and lips yarn with black
yarn, flowers all the colors were so upset, we did not know what that
it was.

Upon hearing the comments of her friend, Clara was the color of the eyes of an angel.

Twenty to thirty days pass quickly when quotidian events in a garden, dialogues longing, unresolved
questions, questions answered and bad angels embroidered lips black. So there came a day Lazarus
began to swear by all the saints that did not allow Clara out there. He would at this point
in annoying, repeated the same thing countless times, and perhaps began to relate a dream she
had last night, which was apparent sleep was absolutely impossible that he and Clara could
separate. She became very thoughtful and said nothing in half an hour, the poor boys alternately
looked at the sky, as if the sky was written resolution of that problem.

Separated.

Clara deposited their sorrows in the bosom of his friend confided to Anne Lazarus the depths
of the night the great vertigo he felt within himself, not sleeping, because a and quickest
endless series of arguments confusing, mixed with vague images perceived vigil held him invincible
and painful. The day I give them hope, evening came to join them, the evening turned to grieve.
That fateful day approached.

When thus feared the arrival of a day we have to bring something wrong, imagination is an extraordinary
force of hatred, which embodies that day that you hate; imagination is approaching this day,
and sees in figure I do not know what monster menacing hand moves
up and eyes full of anger.

There are days when the sun does not should leave.

But the designated for the return of Clara to Madrid the sun, how cruel! left. His first Ray
took the desolation the soul of the young men, threatened with separation. It seems verifies that
when a separation of this kind, when it dissolves and destroys that unit mysterious and fundamental
of human life, the entire unit consisting of complementary of two individuals, it seems, say,
a cataclysm that was to occur in nature, but that we commonly call the elements, is blind and insensible.
A continent sinks two oceans collide the least of these mechanical causes that originate in the
center of matter, but nothing happens, nothing moves in the inert
and blind machine in the world when alter the great, the huge balance
of hearts.

That morning he felt a pain Lazarus unknown. The day progressed, the students went home Ana
and found her crying, was startled to see her mourn, returned to his home, declined to enter Clara
was the room where preparations for his trip, but was afraid to himself. The leave later saw pale
and tired eyes to mourn. Seeing that her mother was saying goodbye and grandfather, Lázaro
ran out of fear that he tried to say goodbye too. Left and walked quickly to a long time out
of town and into the road, far, far away Village. Suddenly he felt the noise gives the measure,
which was approaching. The young man stopped, retreated, the measure passed quickly. There was
the desolate orphan, his face hidden hands. Others who were with her and see her laughing.
Named Lazarus, called with a loud cry, and without realizing it after
the car ran very long distance, until exhaustion forced him to stop.

The coach was gone.

Returned to the village late at night while passing through the garden noticed that some birds
that used sleep there were diabolical uproar with his songs and his restless flutter crazy.
Hurried step will not hear that and went into his house. His mother and grandfather were very
thoughtful and melancholy, neither spoke nor spoke. He stood alone, he shut himself up and wanted
to read a book; wanted to sleep, and wanted to pull out of mind one as iron crown that inflamed
the burned and oppressed, but it was impossible. That was a radiance, which, to be visible,
would like a halo.

In his fever was lethargic, and in his slumber he thought his head
spouting flames vivid that he could not quell, and their brains boiled
as a metal melted.

CHAPTER VII

# # The inner voice.

The boy was very impressionable, nervous, ideal temperament, willing to live always imaginary.
Nobody incidents matched to forge ahead, linking them to make them live a very dramatic and very
interesting working with involuntary thought in the development of
these future actions, and always had the imagination to perspective
that great events that played the main part a single figure, he alone,
Lazarus.

This vision perpetual phenomenon of youth, he had in proportions extraordinary, his imagination
was a powerful concept, and can ensure that great power was for him an implacable enemy, a demon
tormentor.

With this character, it was easy to sprout in it all the passions expansive, and grow up to lead
to exaltation. In times like this, politics, proselytizing, the sectarian spirit engendered great
passion.

Civic heroism, dedication and the tenacity Catonian that shine in some characters of all revolutions,
venality overlapping, betrayal, cruelty and rancor bloody revenge that have been in others, from
of political passion. Lazarus had this passion itself felt the heat of patriotism, creyóse called
to be an apostle of new ideas, and with ardent faith and noble sentiment embraced them.

But these resolutions are unbreakable unmixed selfishness? Sublime selfishness, but selfishness
in the end. Lazarus had ambition. But what kind of ambition? That that is not addressed but the
moral upliftment of the individual who aspires to an award only simple,
to the simple gratitude.

But the gratitude of mankind or of a people is the thing of most value in land. Which is worth
it will have it, because a man can be ungrateful, but a people in the series history, ever. In
life it is the error, but in a hundred generations of a people, discussed each other, there
is no error, and has earned the gratitude the is no remedy, even if late.

Lazarus aspired to the glory, wanted to meet a vanity: every man has
his vanity.

The Aragon was the young man serving a great mission, to conduct a huge undertaking. What was
this mission, you do not know to fixed point. Young people like that do not like things done
because they fear reality too believe in predestination, and deceived by the brilliance of the
dream, think that the events have come to us, instead of seeking them to the events.

After retiring from Zaragoza and went to Ateca, a figure was perpetually attached to his own
future in those scenes. Fool What will you do it? A queen. Where? It will simply be the wife
of a great man. Unless maybe: the wife of a dark man ... He concluded by achieving the objective
of all chimeras to a peaceful retirement, to a happy marriage.

But it was necessary to meditate, draw a plan, see the easiest way to join it.

Clara was an orphan, the poor. Here are two setbacks that have occurred since the beginning.
Ah! But he would work; be active, witty, clever. He knew he had talent. But should be a simple
farmer? No, that was enough for him. Should go to Madrid, to be heard, search a name, a job.
This would be something very easy for anyone who had such skills. Was not sure Lazarus when arriving
at court, center, then as now, the intellectual activity country,
acquire name, position, fortune?

No doubt. Hearsay and should know their Zaragoza speeches. At that time the youth made their
way easily between the crowd decrepit, who with all the vigor of the faith and the full force of
the age first undertook the spread of new ideas, inevitably imposed, acquiring a high and
enviable social position. The higher thought, why deny it? In Depth of conscience was a voice
constantly saying, "I'm worth. It is necessary to find events before they come to fetch us.
Therefore encourage. "

These thoughts were occupying the minds of Lazarus in the days that followed the Clara game. When
his determination became final, he saw that his intelligence enthusiastically became more effective
and more boldness chest. It seemed that his voice was capable of delivering the most deep, the
warmest, most genuine accents in defense of the noble principles of the time, it seemed that
nothing like its ease of expression, his terrible logic, his colorful
and expressive phrase.

In the most quiet of the night, when in lonely places was delivered to his meditations, was
heard was heard. An eloquent voice resonated within him, and silent and concentrated to the wonderful
and attended events of its own internal genius. Audience was himself, and he felt that he
had never had the human word phrases most beautiful, logical, safer, stronger intonation.
Be applauded, it seemed that around his infinite number of shades
agglomerate also applauded him, that sounded intense Clap, whose roar
filled the whole earth.

Back at his house was asleep, and during the dream continued to resonate in your brain the
same voice did shake thousands of hearts, that had the enthusiasm
or terror armies whole people, and then he imagined that within himself
there was a mysterious sound body, a loquacious spirit, constantly
holding back in his deep core the most brilliant and vigorous peroration.

Lazarus

was the genius of eloquence. He knew: he was sure of it. Every day passed without a large audience
listened to him, he thought they were lost in the void and desert
silence those voices that was admirable in itself.

There was no time to lose.

He said his grandfather was going to Madrid. The poor old man began to mourn, and said between
sobs and slobber that this resolution was very serious and suited meditate.

- What are you going to do there? - Said later, wanting to appear bothered: You have a point so
bad! ...

Ateca was then in a Don Gil Carrascosa (the same character, whom we saw play with a barber in the
first chapter of this story), which was friendly with Coletilla. The grandfather consulted the
ex-Abbe resolution of Lazarus, and he felt that it should write Uncle. The old man took the pen
and hand hesitantly drew this letter, which was realistic few days later.

Dear and respected sir, Lazarillo, my grandson and nephew of your grace, to go to Madrid. He has been
head that can make a fortune there, says it can not be in town. And indeed, my dear sir, this
is bad. The crop this year gives us neither the seed and the poor guy has more fans to the
books that the plow. I will tell your worship, respectable Sir, that Lazarus is a very clever
boy, knows many memory books and has read four times of the cross to the date a volume called
him the great men of Plutarch, which has assured me not be a matter of heresy, for if it were
not there to read in my life. Understands laws, and sometimes gets to write and fill a few books of great
stuff, although I I do not understand. It is a good Christian and very respectful and courteous to
everyone. Do not hide defects, respectable gentleman, and through what you want, tell your worship
what is their major flaw, to see if his talent and great wisdom can be corrected. This is
the case which can hardly do anything good in court, because it has very bad handwriting and
did not look what you know. I am sorry to reveal this weakness of yours, but first and foremost is
my conscience and all the gold in the world does not hide its flaws. I, however, that a good
teacher as there are in the Court, may be corrected, if applicable. This will, in time, to
be able to play a real place two thousand clerks in some, as my lord
grandfather, rest in peace.

I wish to make fortune, because I love him with all my heart; and
so, I want your worship, with his great wisdom and universal wisdom,
I report if it is possible get something out of this guy, saying at
the same time if I can count on your protection.

Make it your grace, by God, which is the only son of his sister,
and we we are poor, we can not make you happy.

"

His respectful and reverent server.

# # FERMIN ...

After three months without Don Elijah answered. Finally said, noting that he expected a bit, which
warn if he could come or not.

A month later he wrote again calling Lazarus at his side, adding that their behavior and provisions
to make fortune depended.

Lazarus was beside himself with joy.

Wanted from the day, but the prayers of his mother and his grandfather was forced to wait two
more.

The young student knew from the traditions of the family that his uncle was a very wise man, and
had been craving that had to be a great liberal.

Did not understand that a very wise man ceases to be a great lover
of freedom.

Coletilla's letter was received in early September 1821, in which
they occur the first events we have referred. Shortly after the unfortunate
scene barbershop and military input in the house of Clara, Lazarus
took the trip to Madrid. Clara did not know before the day he was
to come.

Now we can follow naturally the course of events in this
timely story. Let Lazarus preparing to depart. His mother and his
grandfather crying fired, the mayor embraces saying that he sees in
it nothing less than a secretary of the Office, the priest gives you
two rolls maimones for the road and throws a tedious sermon. The student
goes to the galley, and money takes more wishful thinking than the
way of the Court.

CHAPTER VIII

# # Today comes.

Three days after
the adventure described in Chapter Two, was clear very early locked
in the room that served as his bedroom.

"We can do nothing," said Gideon Spilett.

"But of what is he dying?" asked Pencroft.

"Life is simply fading out," replied the reporter. 

Clara could not believe those words. We know that there was little shower to answer when terrible
old man scolded. And this time his honor offended not find the words either suited in this situation.
She shook and wept as only, the realist argument taken as the ultimate expression of hypocrisy
and deceit.

- Prepare, Clara, to get out of here. You do not deserve the sacrifices they've done for you.
Let's see if now buy flowers and ribbons to flirt fix the window. You're going to live hereafter
in the company of some people whose protection deserve neither. But these are so charitable,
that you will be allowed for considering me. Get ready. This afternoon it I'm going to take you
home for the ladies, and there live. They will teach you to be a woman of good, and there we
will see if you return to your crazy, see if you stray from the right path. Live with them,
aid and serve in their work, and teach you what you can not learn
in my house, alone and without guidance.

- Ladies Porreno! - Clara
thought with horror, as upright and Finch those who frightened him
whenever he spoke, leaving an impression of sadness that could not
erase in days.

- These ideas of the day - continued Elijah as talking
to himself, - to pervert girls more demure.

These ideas of the day, this social leprosy! ... Spread without knowing how! ... Penetrates
everywhere! Who had to say! ... It is already ... alone in this house ... Go, Clara, home of the
ladies.

Keep in mind that not deserve it, because they are people very major and virtuous, free from
the contagion of the day. Pretend you walk into a sanctuary.

There was no remedy. The fatal determination, which, without knowing it, had frightened her so much
to the orphan was inevitably taken

.


After some minutes, during which, doubtless, he passed in review his whole life, Captain Nemo
turned to the colonists and said,

"You consider yourselves, gentlemen, under some obligations to me?" All sentences of intimate praise of deep pride that previously gave the imagination,
resonate with echoes of derision on the poor dejected soul, full of shame.

"But we must try to rehabilitation - Lazarus said yes .-- How?

And by this promise he bound both himself and his companions.

"Gentlemen," resumed the captain, "to-morrow I shall be dead."

Herbert was about to utter an exclamation, but a sign from the captain arrested him.

"To-morrow I shall die, and I desire no other tomb than the 'Nautilus.' It is my grave! All
my friends repose in the depths of the ocean; their resting-place shall be mine."

These words were received with profound silence.

"Pay attention to my wishes," he continued. "The 'Nautilus' is imprisoned in this grotto, the
entrance of which is blocked up; but, although egress is impossible, the vessel may at least
sink in the abyss, and there bury my remains."

The colonists listened reverently to the words of the dying man.

"To-morrow, after my death, Mr. Harding," continued the captain, "yourself and companions will
leave the 'Nautilus,' for all the treasures it contains must perish with me. One token alone
will remain with you of Prince Dakkar, with whose history you are now acquainted. There are things that are above family
ties. Life is not reconciled with death, even light with darkness. Goodbye.

I was about to leave, but Lazarus, trembling with astonishment, stopped
him and said with great trepidation:

- But, sir, do not you leave
me, tell me about you.

I want to think the same way.

Nevertheless, the old man commanded respect and veneration, and to see their alleged ideas, subordination
felt that impulse so natural to give a young impressionable temperament.

-
If you are one of those - Elías, - back to your people and not talk
about me, do not say that I have seen, do not think I exist, and it
is true: for you have died.

- But you let me explain ...

- What
are you going to say?

- I think ... You understand that I have my
ideas ... I have read and I have convictions yes, sir, I am deeply
convinced ....

- You poor child, what do you know?

... What belief can you have?

You do not know anything read more falsehoods in four books that
should go down in flames fed the bones of their authors.

Each word was sinking deeper Lazarus.

- Is it possible - said with sorrow, - you can boot me my beliefs,
I have fed with so much love and give me life?

No, you can not: and if in the end, with the force of his talent,
could do this, I beg you not to and leave me.

That separates us that pit you say: if I am in error ... But I'm not, I know I'm not ...

- Dreamer, a fanatic, vain ... because that's just vanity, vanity of Satan - Elijah said sternly;
and then added more strongly: - But I'll get you out of this misery.

These words were uttered in a tone of conviction so deep that the
nephew did not could answer, and sank deeper.

- What are you trying
to do?

What do you expect? Do you think this is going to go on for a long time? You're wrong, that
Spain is the point of acknowledging his error.

See how it stirs everywhere. The hatred of the Constitution in every heart beats honest. Soon
you will see the King recover their sacred privileges, which only God can take away from death.

-
Oh, sir! And what these people have conquered with so much blood, will be lost by pride one
man?

If so, I would deny our lineage, and if Spain were left outrage thus be worthy of a better fate.

-
Worthy of better luck, - Elias said the most horrible expression that his face could abominable
worth annihilate and disappear from the earth if I did.

- No, I
can not believe even if you tell me.

When I do not believe in freedom, I will not believe nothing, and I will be the most despicable
of men. I believe in the freedom that is in my nature for the particular
acts manifest in my life.

I, a citizen of this nation, I have the right to make laws that are to abide, I have the right
to meet with my brothers to choose a legislature.

- To give law and force you to meet them there a holy man, anointed by God.

- No: I and my siblings to anoint. He is King because we want.

It is sacred to me if fulfill the solemn covenant made with all and sundry. If not, no. But
make it good, what sworn.

- There are oaths - Coletilla said soberly, - compliance with which is a crime.

Lazarus felt cold in my heart.

The poise with which he uttered those words were emptied again, and plunged more.

- And all these heroes - he dared to say the prisoner after thinking all these heroes .--, sanctified
by history, living memory of the good and will always be proud of mankind, all those who have lived
for freedom, who have died for it, martyrs dishonored on his last day by the hand of the executioner,
but later lifted for humanity ... Would not you want me to love them? And I revere, my smallness
does not allow me to imitate, but have a chance to like them, gave
all my life, I confess.

Oh! if freedom is not was the kindest thing would be the most beautiful
thing with the memory of many heroes.

- And those are your heroes?

Is that what you admire? Elias said.

- Why, to whom I admire? Whom do I admire? What tyrants?

"Nero, killing Seneca to Philip II, killing Egmont and to Lanuza,
to Louis XV, disjointed to Damiens?

- It was necessary to teach the
French that there should be another Ravaillac.

- Well, the lesson
did not work, because thirty years ago a King died on a scaffold.

-
Those are your demigods, those! - Elijah cried angrily.

- No, my
demigods are not extermination, terror and murder.

Sorry for the ramblings of all, but not surprising that, given the
violence away from one end, is played in the violence another, paying
centuries crimes with the crime of a day.

- I do not talk anymore
- said Coletilla calm and mournful voice: - I know you're one of those,
of those whom I have no words harsh enough to be qualified.

Your God is a spirit blind debauchery, the rule of your conduct is scandalous. Tell me, fool,
what is your purpose? What do you see in the future? Suppose you were a remarkable man among your
kind, the more blind to the blind, the craziest of the crazy, what
would you do, what is your aim?

- I have no aspirations bastards,
I do not thrive in the shade of a tyrant who pay the adulation money
but I do not aspire to the gratitude of mankind, to the glory.

-
Gloria that way?

The glory is not achieved but by the way of loyalty, serving God and the King. There is no
glory that God gives in Paradise, which is simulated shadowing and imperfect worship at the altar
giving the human race to God's elect. Furthermore, the glory on earth is to be submissive
and obedient subject, not yelling streets and squares. That you dreamed of glory can not go
heroes, but quacks and bandits. The glory is to fulfill the duty.

- Well, I keep trying to emancipate my duty to my brethren of an odious
tyranny, saying and proven to be free and equal before God and the
law.

- The first duty is to obey what I command law.

- Blindly?

-
Blindly.

- I obey the law is that law which have been made that can
do it, elected by me and my brothers, chosen by all.

- A touch You
do not examine the law, but obey.

- What if I send an outrage?

-
Do not send it.

- What if I send it?

- You say you do not send it.

And if God let your King will send something contrary to justice, do it, God will punish him and
he will reward you in the afterlife. You will be a martyr. What greater glory? The martyrdom
of duty is great and sublime.

Lazarus sank lower.

- Notes - Elías, - the spectacle of that nation. A few heartless laws give on behalf of a principle
absurd, contrary to nature. Only the King has God given sovereignty.

What a mess! The King bound by a mob of rebel soldiers to swear that
abominable Code!

He swore, but in the depths of his soul hates.

Could not be otherwise.

He is a prisoner, prisoner of his subjects who play with him. The King is obliged to represent
the most horrible farce. Kingship never fell much.

But he will get rid of this horrible guardianship as Europe, if necessary,
is combining forces to save Spain.

Spain already has saved Europe.

- No, I can not believe - said Lazarus
- such iniquity.

This invasion would be more hateful that of 1808, and also better
punished.

- Do not believe it: the King is restored to his throne.

In addition, Spain will not rise, and if so, be in favor of intervention.

Can not you see how it manifests its will? Do not see the features appearing everywhere? All provinces
are assembled to proclaim the absolute sovereign, and yet the main factions have emerged. Spain
will stand against this absurd system, and Fernando will be our beloved
King.

- Is it possible? - Lazarus said in dismay, and then sank further.

-
As possible, it will not be long before you see it.

Now they will know the tune of souls.

All of those charlatans you have filled the head of blunders flee ashamed, going to hide their
shame in a foreign land. Then men covered in glory right heart, the loyal and patriotic struggle
against a rampant mob, fight for the right, by God and by the King will live forever in everyone's
memory, and their names will come as an emblem of justice and honesty. These are the heroes, Lazarus
them.

Lazarus finished sink. The words of his uncle was so impressed that
he had not encouragement than to say timidly:

- Are these all?

-
Nothing.

The divine glory is nothing that can top that justice and duty. Do not expect anything out
of it. The whirlwind of the blind mob drags you: go with him.

No I say more. Walk to the disgrace and death. Goodbye. Someday you will remember me.

- No - Lazarus said stopping him - I want you to advise me and guide me .... I ... although I have
enough strength of conviction ....

- Strength of conviction? - Said the fan, stopping and looking at
his nephew with contempt.

- Yes - he said - and I can not lose, I
will not lose them.

- Well, follow that road.

Away from me do not expect nothing but disgrace, darkness. I I leave you to your fate. Make
me realize that you do not know. You may bring in freedom, go with them, you will be defeated, and
then ... or run away in disgrace, or you surrender to the revenge of your enemies will not pardon
you, and do well.

- But you leave me?

- Yes: I have already known.

I came just to meet you.

I know who you are. I wait in my house, but do not go to it but become.

- Ah, impossible! No go.

- Well, goodbye - Elijah said decisively.

- Goodbye - Lazarus anxiously
repeated.

Tagline went. The young man did not dare stop. He did not believe he was leaving until he saw
off, and felt that the jailer closed the door. Then he had impulses to call; screamed, it was not
heard, cried tears of despair smote with their hands door and lock, and at last yielded to
fatigue and mental disorder, fell again in that lethargy and painful
lost him to pull out just before the arrival of his uncle.

CHAPTER XIX

# # The Abbe.

The next day, the house of the three ruins contained in its narrow capacity six persons: three
Porrenos, Clara and two visits.

Clara and the devout were locked into the inner room, destined to ascetic practices. The saint,
mental prayer ended, he had sat on a stool and putting a great book
on his knees, was reading with his head bowed to one side, arched
eyebrows, low eyelids, and hands clasped in a gesture very humble.

Clara was at his side, and as no should arrive at its weak nature,
to that high degree of perfection, sewed as a sinner, a woman unhappy
purge by inflammation of divine love.

The devout are not possible further expansion to refer to his neighbor
the joys and visions that night had had.

Then began a review of doctrine, and made several moral and theological questions, to which he
simply replied Clara, acting on what little he knew positively at
your good sense suggested.

But the fact is that Dona Paulita always seemed wrong those of his disciple. Scolded her, she explained
with drawings and phrases Scholastics not common, and, finally, he called ignorant and heretical,
causing great distress and shock.

Suddenly interrupted his reading and his rebukes, and exclaims:

- Ah! I forgot a part of my prayer. Already seen, I distracted you with errors, daughter. You must
think differently and discard these ideas .... But I forgot to say praying ... by .... - What
have you forgotten? - Clara said .-- I forgot to pray two Father our by the nephew of our
good friend Don Elijah.

- Jesus, What happened? What is it? - Clara said earnestly unable to contain.

- Do not worry, sister, who is not dead - coolly replied the devout.

- Then what happened? - Continued Clara, who had gone pale and trembling.

- That is a prisoner in jail, and well deserved .-- Why, what has he done?

- Uproar over the streets and talk in the clubs a number of things
so perfidious or hell, Horrifying the recall.

Don Elias last night told us everything that heartless youth has
Indeed, and I had a hard time.

Clara was a moment unable to utter a word.

The sudden news of troubled so much that dared not ask more.

- Sister - continued devotion, - what boys the dial! What a horrible corruption! This Youth
must be a monster. But alas! we must have compassion for the criminals who make mistakes. Not
that I believe I, as Origen, that even the devil has to be saved. But we sympathize and love to
sinners, even if they are of the most hardened and rebellious.

- But what has he done? - Clara repeated, making a great effort to hide his embarrassment.

- I do not know point by point, but they are horrible things ....
He has done what so many shameless out there.

This society is lost. Let's see, sister, if you will soon learn that I've said about efficacious
grace.

- But is imprisoned? - Added more fear .-- Clara Inmate, yes, and not let go so soon. But are you
unaltered ... Already, he has compassion, and it is natural. Compassion to fellow human beings
is one of the virtues that are most recommended Tertullian. You are pale, sister. But since:
is the effect of compassion.

I am going to pray. And leaving the book, took the rosary and prayed. Clara dropped head and
continued sewing.

Such was his grief, did not point to right, spikes the fingers many times, and the stitching
came out so bad that soon became necessary to break it apart and sew again.

Let them and working visits. In the room were Maria de la Paz, Salome, and before of them, standing
respectfully, Elijah Orejón and former Abbe Don Gil Carrascosa.

Nothing we have spoken so far of this unique friendship with the venerable character old. Carrascosa,
as the Abbe intrusive Porreno frequented the house, what same as others in the higher hierarchy.
We even heard from people of all truth the intruder and bold man had had a leading part in
the mysterious relationships Salome with that young soldier, who was sent to Peru after the breakup
of the lady the Duke of beardless X. ...

Carrascosa was a man of
much mischief and socaliña, subtle as air, capable of weaving in within
the working families most tangles, came and went quietly preparing
color parties, arranging processions, and was, in short, a rogue third
party.

So we call for not a different name a little coarse, someone promptly applied and retained
among many fairly.

The friendship of the three old was stopped with misfortune, and only occasionally the visited,
reminding them of times past with an eloquence and warmth that did not like Dona Paz. Lately, his
visits became more frequent and more loving your shows friendship. The day we found here had been
with Elijah, and for something special was no doubt, because her dress was the most chosen and
washed her face was more than usual. The sharp folds of the best of his three jackets were
swaying to the rhythm of the legs in the back of the body, the nerve had received a double ration
of ointment, and tie augmented with new folds, forming a white canopy,
beneath a breast endive beard.

When the abbe put this suit, had ruled since the last ratio of their peculiar elegance.

Tagline was leaving and after having greeted the ladies. Did not come but to ratify a adjusted
treaty lately with Paz. We know that the ladies had the second floor the house just filled
with family furniture that had not wanted to get rid of.

The apartment was very small and sloping, communicating with the main stairs interior.

The ladies had proposed to Elijah that was to live in this place, eating with them as host,
and the good old man came this arrangement as a mold, because it produced savings, and also
brought him into close contact with his former love, who had always
as appreciation.

Economy, comfort, safety, saw three advantages in the proposal, and accepted. That day came
to give the definitive answer: there was the price disputes.

When he left the Abbe Coletilla prepared to take the word did a thousand faces, taking to the surface
of his face through his repertoire of smiles.

We will not be indiscreet to say, anticipating a positive affirmation of the Don Gil, who was to
invite the three ladies for a religious festival.

We also dare to tell, with all reservations imaginable that this was not a pretext to conceal other
purposes.

When you began to speak, the first thing he did was ask for Dona Paulita,
and Clara, using some discreet reticence.

Then he said:

- Well, I came to say to you if you want to honor with their presence
the role that the Brotherhood Passion and Death held tomorrow at the
Church of Wonders.

I am the secretary of the Guild, and thanks to me has arranged the
party.

I assure you that it will most brilliant which has been in court.

- It will never like we did the year 98 Girls de Loreto, when he moved
the Virgen de los Dolores del Olivar oratory - Salome said.

- It
was not 98, but the 3, I remember how it was yesterday - said Paz.

-
You say that was the 98 - insisted the other.

- I'm sure that was
the year 3 - Peace said, - when the first wine of the French war.

-
May 98, Peace - said Salome - 98.

Twenty-five years ago.

- Jesus, woman, I assure you that was the year 3, I remember it well. I was then ... fifteen
years.

- Ladies, is not relevant date - said Carrascosa, cutting this dangerous issue.

And then continued:

- Thanks to the request that I direct, has been reduced two thousand and some real. We have mass with
orchestra chapel and preach to us the Father Lorenzo de Soto, who
is a speaker worth a Peru.

- Oh! you name it I - Salome said, and
putting away the face before she open hand in the guise of screen:
- is a perverted priest, contaminated with the ideas of day.

After the Liberals made him vicar gives Astorga, is in the hands of the devil. I had to fall
dead when the day of the feast of Our Lady of Milk and Good Childbirth heard him San Luis
said that it was necessary to reconcile with those who had turned to our homeland. How can there
come to the end of perversion have learned a person as the father Lorenzo de Soto?

- Madam, I have for me is a great preacher - said Carrascosa .-- The year 12 was, as you know,
Deputy to those courts, the 14 signed a statement of the Persians. Noble character! Then, the friendship
of the King has elevated to very high positions, and to prove their merit, suffice it to say
that it was he who discovered the conspiracy of Porlier.

After 20 has been enemy of the Constitution, which is worthy of praise, because otherwise
they would have lost his sinecure. But none of this is irrelevant, but preaches morning and this
afternoon we Complete in singing the treble of Avila and Father Melchor,
Franciscan Segovia.

Tomorrow Rev. Bishop will officiate Mechoacan do, and in the evening there will be a procession, to
be attended by Guild Paso, the Holy Shroud, and children will also Hospice.

- Oh, Don Gil! - Said with a tone of profound sorrow Lady of Peace
- How dare to take the Saints into the street with these things?

More want them to stand on its houses not out to see all the iniquities committed by men.

-
I can assure you - said the abbe, smiling devilishly ironic - they have not complained, or complain
about the ride. Best of the procession is the motorcade that we organized. Iran fourteen virgins
dressed in white, pink crowns, veils, scapulars, and candles hands.

- These committees - said in a bad mood Lady of Peace - do not make me funny. It is one thing
so worldly! There go the men just to see the girls, and girls who make virgins who will only see
them, and at least they think is in the saints and God.

These are things in France, Don Gil. Before used here is not like immorality, and day which will
actually come in such outrageous behavior.

The nasal timbre of the voice of Doña Paulita, who was in the adjoining
room resounded in logging, bringing the opinion of the holy, not because
they stopped praying attention As he said in the room.

- Ah, - said,
raising his voice to be heard by Mr. Gil - I do not appoint these
processions mundane virgins.

What virgins are those who go out with wreaths of roses and candles in hands! Once I saw that,
and I felt such disgust that I had to confess at once of anger I had given. I nominate that.
What a scandal, my God! Where we'll end up like that!

- Well, ladies - Don Gil said, breathing hard, as if with the encouragement to acquire the force
against so many and such enemies needed: - I, ladies and respecting the views of you, I find
that these processions are very pathetic, very expressive, very religious.

Anyway, the procession is arranged, and we have to go out. We have been looking for young, and we've
found some, but we still need five.

The party is tomorrow, and if not find these missing today, is going to detract from the function.
What a disappointment! Do not know you how much I worked to look.

They are very beautiful that I have now.

- Mr Don Gil, by God - Salome cried in the tone of an honest lady who rebukes boldly of her beau.

-
Ladies, what's so special? If God has made them beautiful, what we should go do? But alas!
I got five. So I came here. He stopped and cut.

- Have you come here! - Peace said opening her eyes.

- Have you come here! - Murmured Salome with a sudden change of color.

The two ruins looked quick glance That was terrible.

A hidden observer and intelligent may have noticed that at the mutual
beam launched by the two were examined, the despised, changing as
an expression of resentment that each threw for another.

But Carrascosa, although it was a good observer, he failed to notice the brief glow of that
look fleeting as a flash, the two gulfs that open opposite each other, they looked a moment, showing
all its horror.

Do not believe why aunt and niece did not want But no: they loved
each other, if possible put it this way, they loved each other as
two people can love fussing together.

Follow.

A deep sigh and distant admiration announced Dona Paulita.

- Yes, I have come here to see if you agree ...-- continued the abbe.

The altarpiece in the person of peace to times of his face, beet color,
and Salome's eyes looked to the sky, do not know if a natural movement
or by a calculated combination of gestures.

- That there is nothing
particular, ladies, nothing special on the contrary ....

- Mr Don
Gil! - Salome said a similar thing to flush.

- Mr Don Gil! - Peace
cried all the majesty of nature collected in a single gesture.

He who had been shot and clerks saw that he was misunderstood.

- I shall rectify - exclaimed.

- To rectify, as they say in Parliament - Salome said in a sudden
burst of kindness and inexplicable that he could not contain; rare
kindness in her that was no doubt a sign of great turmoil.

The good mood was ruined the second incident.

- I mean - "continued
the abbe, after coughing two or three times - that came to see if
they consented you that this girl ... you protect that girl ....

A
Salomé he went into a cough, do not know whether caused by natural
causes or by need to hide and no offer to the contemplation of Don
Gil triangular wrinkles and the purple color that appeared on his
face when he heard that proposition. Maria de la Paz rubbed one eye
as if stung. Donna's voice was heard that said a Latin Paulita incomprehensible.

-
That girl - continued Carrascosa, - called ... I do not remember his
name.

"True," replied Cyrus Harding, "and I do not fear an earthquake in the sense in which the term
is commonly applied to convulsions of the soil provoked by the expansion of subterranean gases.
But other causes may produce great disasters."

"How so, my dear Cyrus?'

"I am not certain. I must consider. I must visit the mountain. In a few days I shall learn
more on this point."

Gideon Spilett said no more, and soon, in spite of the explosions of the volcano, whose intensity
increased, and which were repeated by the echoes of the island, the inhabitants of Granite
House were sleeping soundly.

Three days passed by--the 4th, 5th, and 6th of January. The construction of the vessel was
diligently continued, and without offering further explanations the engineer pushed forward
the work with all his energy. Mount Franklin was now hooded by a somber cloud of sinister aspect,
and, amid the flames, vomiting forth incandescent rocks, some of which fell back into the crater
itself. This caused Pencroft, who would only look at the matter in the light of a joke, to
exclaim,--

"Ah! the giant is playing at cup and ball; he is a conjurer."

In fact, the substances thrown up fell back again in to the abyss, and it did not seem that
the lava, though swollen by the internal pressure, had yet risen to the orifice of the crater.
At any rate, the opening on the northeast, which was partly visible, poured out no torrent
upon the northern slope of the mountain.

Nevertheless, however pressing was the construction of the vessel, other duties demanded the
presence of the colonists on various portions of the island. Before everything it was necessary
to go to the corral, where the flocks of musmons and goats were enclosed, and replenish the
provision of forage for those animals. Changing suddenly, took a very mundane way of life: it came layer and walked
out into the world giving Zanchetta with the pretext that he had a strong moral condition
and needed distraction. Acompañábala a young military or some green Abbe. Her husband, seeing
that it was impossible to stop at home, he had to agree in that life voladeras; that while it cost
him a part of his fortune, he fought for some time impertinence of the demon.


"We shall return to-morrow," replied Cyrus Harding, "but it is necessary that I should go to
the corral. I must learn how the eruption is progressing."

"The eruption! always the eruption!" answered Pencroft, with an air of discontent. "An important
thing, truly, this eruption! What used
the loot of the subjugated peoples?

The destitution we worked so much or more than in the day, and humbled
us destitution and made us lowering of the height at which we had set.

On this day, the upward movement of European civilization itself bears us, and can not be denied
that in the midst of a thousand disappointments, one thousand two
hundred thousand troubles and mortifications of national pride, Spain
progresses and improves, but it costs good whipping.

Clumsiness in producing and slurred spend more to blame for these scourges.

I am a rabid theoretical free-forex trader. Bastiat and Cobden have convinced me, but in I'm
scared practice of free trade. What is in Spain that can compete freely with foreign products?
The wine perhaps, and with everything except the sherry, the other wine Spanish usually go
to France, I throw a little juice of berries, and alum root lily, and we will re-sell, giving
us a single bottle in the price we receive one or two or three arrobas.

That is, we take fifty or sixty bottles with the same liquid, with the slight modification of
the alchemist or apothecary.

What sea of ​​wine, laughed oil which will not have to spend any rich lady to Andalusian buy a
house dress Worth? Well, what if the lady is of Almeria and has to buy the Worth gown with esparto product?
Then you have to peel and strip hundreds square leagues to wear her beautiful and graceful body.
In almost all our changes, more or less free, we can say the same thing. Until the price of
transportation is harmful to us, establishing fatally natural and right guard against our bulky
and heavy crude goods. And all this without the fraud, with the mockery, with what is commonly
called the premium. By colored glass beads, nails and other trinkets, taking mates as Captain
Cook was good and exquisite in Otahiti. Some of this, although to a lesser extent, always in
the changes between a preview and other people most backward. Often there are objects that
have real value for others who have no none, but the fashion or whim. The word chic, short name
a drunken minstrel can-can danced beautifully, has produced all industries
Paris, legitimate and illegitimate, a considerable number of millions. The role (and is called par excellence in Cuba) in question, signed by Don
Candido, prayed more or less as follows: "I give my slave role María Regla so that within ten days
of the accommodation or find love in the city. It Creole rational, intelligent and agile, healthy,
robust, no disease has ever experienced, has no blemish known, it knows plain sewing, washing
and ironing understand, care for children and the sick. It paper gives because she asked. No
more masters have known that he was born and which now sold. Havana, etc. "

Released the subject, Dona Rosa judged of great importance, took care of runaway black. He blamed
all the fault of the event to Butler, which is why at the first opportunity went to his beard
with the ironic inquisition:

- I guess you have made many inquiries into the whereabouts of Dionysus.

- Yes, my lady Dona Rosa, many, many steps, "he said pregnant, then
lied like a Turk.

Only these black ... we are the same dianche.

Crouch know ... Go if you know!

- Let's see what has brought you to clean.

- Not much, my lady, almost nothing. It said he died of a stab, y.
.. stop You count. Because not having risen summary of the fact that
I know of, or arrested the perpetrator, nor buried the dead, I assumed,
well-founded assumption seems to me that the stab was mere rumor,
a hoax, perhaps spread it to disorient Dionisio and follow him around
the track. He could now sufficiently examine on this side the ancient channels of the lava.
There was no doubt in his mind that the most recent eruption had occurred at a far-distant epoch. Not too late ... Learn about you. "

And took a book, then another, and was showing the Benina, who came
to see as much digital marvel.

"Look you. Here I point the cost of the house, without anything happening to me, even five cents
of a matchbox, the rooms of the postman, everything, everything ... In this other little boy, the
alms to do and what employment votes. Daily alms, so much. Alms monthly
how much.

Then they spend all the staff, where you can learn, day by day, what I spend, and make the
balance ... You figure, if Frank had taken stock would not be as
it is.

- Certainly, sir, very true. And I tell the lady to take stock,
to take everything apuntación, which enters as what comes out.

The soil they walked upon was choked with the pulverized matter fallen from the cloud. No quadruped
appeared in the woods. Even the birds had fled. Dona Paulita only going to the theater
when a self-represented on the Cross for Corpus parties, but was always with permission of his confessor.

Entry
into the ten-eight, heard with horror of the fifteenth propositions
Porreno, his uncle to marry.

- I - he said - or will be the daughter
of Jesus Christ, or live in my home, absent from the world, searching
it a bulwark against evil.

- Well, my dear, if this is your taste
- said the uncle - whatever.

 At every hundred paces they were obliged to stop to take breath. But
is this what really happens? Is it not, on the contrary, very frequent that, out of vanity, for
fashion, caprice, or whimsy, you need demos, not for the superfluous, but until it harmful? It
will say that both meet a need changing, and in this sense win. But if by necessity means a vice,
a habit, a bad habit, an appetite bestial, how do we agree? Well, do you win the Chinese to
buy opium poisoning with him?


