"Yeth," said Thomas, drawing in his breath. He shut his little hand, put out his tongue just
the smallest bit, and became serious and silent.

"Is it a present?" I asked. Having got so far, it seemed a pity not to go on. He had done me
the greatest honor that a small boy can do a woman, which, by the way, was what our Nannie
said when she told us that a strange man had proposed to her on a penny steamboat.

Thomas shook his head and said, "Nope."

"Did you find it?" I asked.

He nodded. "I always find fings," he said.

Beyond that I could get nothing out of him. I have not often sat out with a more embarrassing
partner. To be continually stared at and never spoken to would, I think, make the boldest woman
shy. There was a stolidity about Thomas that promised well for England's future. There was
a steady resistance from attack that was really admirable; but I was not altogether sorry when
Fraulein pounced upon him. As she led him off I heard him say, "Parties do last a long time,
don't they, Leilein?"

Having lost Thomas, I sought a new partner. A tall, fair girl with wide, gray eyes, a pink-and-white
complexion, a beautiful mouth, and a delicately refined nose, interested me, as I imagine she
has continued to do every one who has met her. She reminded me of spring, with birds singing
and flowers flowering and trees bursting, just as Diana does. As it was quite the correct thing
for girls to dance with one another, I made so bold as to ask her for a dance. With the timidity
of a boy just out of Etons, or perhaps I should say, of a shy boy just out of Etons, I approached
her. "Right-o," she said, "let's see."

She puckered her penciled eyebrows and studied her program. "The third after the two next?"

She bowed gravely, and I said, "Thank you." I felt very young and inexperienced as I returned
the bow.

"That's all right," she said. "Where shall I find you? It doesn't matter, I shall know you
again"; and she had the audacity to write on her program, for I saw her do it, "white dress,
red hair." Even disputes that in her own lap arose, took them
to the new converts, as Humboldt b, 5, 133 tells the story of South America. Besides, is the Protestant
Church in the conservation of such nations, by a other Protestant sect were converted, definitely
was not too soft. Some Locations (North America, Africa, & c.) also has it instead of peace of
Christianity to the dispute the sects do. What impact this had on the newly acquired indigenous
peoples and their Character make! It should also not forget that in most cases, the Mission Europeans
opposed even to the most violent, as it is by those in their often very mundane, or rather saw
disabled wicked doings. So it was especially in Polynesia, on almost every island (Meinicke, Lutteroth
and in almost all sources), so in America in The 16th Century (4 Waitz, 188, 338), including in
Africa Hottentots, Kaffirs, Negroes everywhere. You see, our culture demands of the indigenous
people an intellectual effort of such enormous size that they did not at once, and from one generation
to overcome can be. But while now, Europeans have always fresh influx of new troops, they strengthen
their efforts, while also among the Germans on the site of an unsuccessful Schaar another was
that what had won those executed, taking over, what else was not forthcoming, it is missing in
the low head count of primitives in such powerful imaging and help out backup crew, divide by
which the work itself, the acquisition is could take place more easily and more general. Therefore,
the present generation a larger order and made more difficult task and it is already clear, therefore,
that a generation, so that two or three generations can not satisfy her. The size of the task,
the enormous intellectual Effort even more difficult but the prosperous survival of generations by
the spiritual Pressure so much that we must then point most emphatically. And secondly, We
again emphasize that the tendency to melancholy by such over-exertion, where in most cases, all
too soon becomes apparent that an even reasonably satisfactory The aim is to achieve little, is always
increased, so that he almost characteristic of the peoples can be. And so we find it in general
and in detail. Tschudi 2, 286 tells the story of Botokudenknaben one, that of a family in Bahia
carefully raised and then to study medicine was sent to the university. He earned a Ph.D.,
also exerted a time to practice independently until he disappeared. "A deep melancholy has always
been the basic trait of his character. "Later it was learned that he is again, after he had any
Trace of civilization, and the discarded clothes, as hunters roam the woods.
 My cousin says so, and she goes to dances--heaps--and she is six foot." Throughout
the mission history of modern times is perhaps not such a sad event as the occurrence of propaganda
in the South Seas, where just the Protestant Mission firm to gain a foothold and to see fruits
of their painstaking work began. (bang) "in steering, and that helps. I love dancing--don't you?
Oh, that's all right--it's--only--the stupid--old mantelpiece--I always go into that--it sticks
out so--doesn't it? This cause but acts anywhere Natural and
cultural peoples together: it had to happen, because the missionaries have a something decente
clothing than most primitive people known demand had.

And imported food (apart from the spirits) were the indigenous people is dangerous: so after Dieffenbach
op for the New Zealanders, the introduction of maize, which they
half-fermented hurt by this extremely unhealthy and baked bread a lot.

"Hair is beastly stuff, isn't it?" she said. "Wouldn't you love to be a boy? Oh, I promised
mother not to say I 'beastly'; that's one of the things I would like to be a boy for, because
boys may do such an awful lot of things."

I soon found out that Dolly liked boys better than girls.

She loved horses and dogs.

She hated and detested bearing-reins.

She didn't want to come out.

She thought grown-ups silly, except some--

She loved the country and strawberry ice.

She hated dull lessons, and I very soon discovered that there were none other than dull.

She collected stamps.

She longed to have a pet monkey or a brother, she didn't much mind which.

At the mention of brothers I looked down at Dolly's slim legs, clothed in fine black silk stockings,
at the valenciennes lace on her muslin frock, and I imagined that if she had any brothers,
the younger ones would be quite likely to have started life in trousers of their own. Yes,
Dolly looked like it. I learned a great deal from her in the time it had taken me to get "yeth"
and "nope" out of Thomas.

The energetic boy who had been obliged to keep up with the music at all costs, the little fat
girl's in particular, came up to me, and said in an aggrieved voice, "Miss Daly has spoilt
my program; she can't write, and she has written big D's all over it. Will you write me out
a fresh one?"

Which I, of course, did. Really it was very careless of Miss Daly.

The children danced hard, with intervals for tea and refreshment; and as seven o'clock struck,
there was a transformation scene. With conscientious punctuality the party-dressed children
turned, into little or big woolen bundles, as the case might be. The last bundle I saw was
a pink woolen one, weeping bitterly. My heart was wrung. The noisy crying of a child is bad
enough, but when it is the soft weeping of a broken heart, it is unbearable. Of course it was
my friend Thomas. I stood on the staircase unable to do anything, for he was quickly borne
from the arms of Fraulein by a big footman, and no doubt deposited in a brougham in the outer
darkness. Poor Thomas!

I hoped that the right sort of mother would be at home to unroll that pink bundle, a mother
who would pretend that it could not be her darling who was crying, but a strange little boy
with a face quite unknown to her. Where could he have come from? And so on, until Thomas would
be ashamed to be seen with a strange face, and would smile, and then his mother would say,
"What is it, my darling?" because, of course, it was her own darling who was crying, and she
would never rest till she knew why.

I went back to the drawing-room quite happy that Thomas should be unrolled by the right sort
of mother, and as I walked across the room, my foot slipped on something. I looked to see what
it was I had trodden on. It was a short screw, Thomas's precious possession. "That was why
the poor pink bundle was crying!" 

In Tahiti, the women take immediately after birth immediately steam baths with cold ablutions (Wilson
461), also in New Zealand, where the children stay in Tahiti, naked and can swim rather than
run (Dieffenbach 2, 24-25, Ellis 1, 261 and Mörenh 2, 61.), and also on Nukuhiva (Melville 2,
191). Skin diseases, and very evil of child (Jaws, framboesia) often are mentioned, such as
in Tonga, where the children well cared for and otherwise very healthy (Mariner 2, 179) and in
Ponapi (Cheyne 122). Large mortality prevails but among the children because of lack of care
and maintenance in Hawaii (Virgin 1, 268) and also in Tahiti (Bennett 1, 148). Ellis says that
the Tahitian children, although in appearance thick and healthy, but until about the age of 12
months would be very tender and fell (1, 260). Formation of the skull by Platt and high pressures
in Tahiti was very common one, 261. Micronesia on the maintenance of children is bad. On Tobi
(Lord North, extreme South-West end FSM) providing children immediately after birth very same food
as the adults (Pickaring, Memoir of the Language and Inhabitants of Lord North's Isl 1845; 228),
and also to Ratak coconut milk and plantains, which they vorkaut the mother; harmful But as
this food for them is the irregularity with which they get anything (Gulick 180-181), so another
area where the mortality is great among them. Also in Polynesia suckle the women like animals
in addition to the children, such as the Hawaierinnen by Remy XLII Dogs and pigs.

In Melanosien it is not better: the children are not cared for and
have from birth vote in the lives of the ancients.

In some parts of New Guinea (Finsch 103) is the mother constantly cold water poured over his
head, but the child is born, mother and child cold bath and then immediately subjected to intense
heat as possible next to a blazing fire, and so on alternately. The hotter and longer tolerate
this Höllenkur mother and child, for the healthier apply both. In another area had a wife until recently
child born on the hot sand down and worked nearby, came as strangers, grub it easily to the
neck in the sand and continue working (eb 63).

Almost nowhere but kills more children than in New Holland: out of
four is hardly more than one three years old (Turnbull 43), as evidenced
by the treatment they are to part, and the only exceptionally strong
kids survive, explained.

No sooner is the child born into a Opossumfell wound, dragged everywhere and usually in the
highest degree negligent treatment, the Set fire to close, and the like (Grey 2, 250-251).
This also leads walking Darwin (2, 213) as a cause of mortality among children in, and it is worthy of
attention, which he adds: "As the difficulty, he says, to obtain food is growing, so does
their migratory Life and therefore no actual starvation, the population in such an exceptionally
violently restrained, compared with civilized countries, where his father Work can increase
without "to destroy the Scion. For this purpose they are also the food becomes shorter, that here
the women often young animals, dogs suck, (Grey 2, 279) and certainly often from necessity, for
a dog is now more so than hunting animals always averse and rare to be a great treasure hunting
for the natives and the food for the young animals is certainly often enough rare.

Briefly but emphatically, we must mention here that the Tattuiren, which throughout Polynesia is run
frequently, often causing the death by itself (Ellis 1, 266), and as we only just growing up
of this operation is subjected, the youth will also make them by
a not be underestimated demolition done.

More important, however, because a thing of the greatest influence on the physical health of
the indigenous peoples, is often beyond all bad treatment of women.

So before all things in New Holland.

Thomas put out his right hand, and I, putting aside all convention, gave him a real "Sara hug"
for the sake of that mother whose door was closed. It then began to dawn upon me how very unconventional
it was of me to be hugging a comparatively strange child, in a perfectly strange house, and
I hastily said good-night to the small Thomas and the big Thomas, nurses and Fraulein, and
literally ran downstairs, followed of course by the big Thomas. For any unfortunate outcome of a disease is considered to cause by
stronger magic, here and in America and Polynesia.

§ 5 Low care of indigenous people for their physical well-being.

However, since the diseases plaguing indigenous peoples in their normal state, only slightly so
Here you have this wrong, and if it brought many a patient's death,
but not too much have led to her passing away, much more dangerous
is the small concern, almost all use primitives to use their physical
care and skill. Otherwise I didn't exactly know how he could
describe me.

Well, Zerlina of course said I was mad. She didn't agree with me that the screw could not possibly
have been sent back in an envelope with a few words of explanation. She said she would have
bought a nice toy for the child. And that seems to be no easy matter at
least he was himself, although accompanied by a non-native unfit on his involuntary train along
the west coast of the continent in the extreme danger to life from Hunger.


I didn't say all that to Zerlina, because, you see, she is a mother, and I couldn't understand
these things. She was very much surprised at being late for the party, so surprised. She was
full of apologies.

It was so good of me to help her! Had the darling children enjoyed themselves? As in New Holland, the women - and
in Polynesia, it is also, according to Dieffenbach op and others - like nurse and the Americans their
children more often to the 12th is nursing this year and if the mother by now a 2nd


Chapter VII

