'Do you want to be able to say it? You cannot want it more than God wants to hear you say it.
The Christ stands on the shore beside us to-day, and He yearns with unutterable longing, that
each man, each woman, each child here present, should be able to take up the words of my text,
and say, "I know that I have passed from death unto life."'

Then he went on to tell us that it was not a long, weary, toilsome journey which we had to
travel to reach the Christ. He was present amongst us now. He was very near to each one of
us; His arms were wide open. He was waiting to receive each one who was willing to cross the
line; one step would be sufficient, one step into those open arms. Then we ended by singing
a hymn, which seemed to me a very beautiful one:--

  'Only a step to Jesus!
    Believe, and thou shalt live:
  Lovingly now He's waiting,
    And ready to forgive.

  Only a step to Jesus!
    A step from sin to grace:
  What has thy heart decided?
    The moments fly apace.

  Only a step to Jesus!
    Oh, why not come and say,
  "Gladly to Thee, my Saviour,
    I give myself away?" He had
evidently felt the sermon very much, and when he rose to go home after
the others had dispersed, I saw Mr. Christie walking by his side.

That was a lovely Sunday evening. The storm of the week before seemed to have cleared the air,
and there was a golden light over everything, until the sun went down behind the hill. I spent
the evening at Mrs. Christie's, for Polly was still fully occupied with the child, and was
not able to attend to much of the work downstairs. Duncan did the cooking now, and the washing
up and the cleaning, and I never saw a more handy man. He waited on me hand and foot, as if
I was a lord; but I felt that I was giving the dear fellow a great deal of trouble, and was
glad, therefore, to accept Mrs. Christie's invitation to have tea and supper at their house.

Little Jack welcomed me with the greatest joy. He was so delighted to have me at tea, and contemplated
me with so much delight and interest from his high chair by my side, that he quite forgot to
eat his own tea, and had to be recalled from his admiration of me, time after time, by his
mother. After tea he told her he had a great secret to confide to her; he dragged her from
the room and led her upstairs, and then with closed doors, and in a whisper so low that she
could scarcely distinguish the words, he told her solemnly, 'I do love big Mr. Jack very much,'
which secret his faithless mother was treacherous enough to reveal to me, after we had been
upstairs that evening to see little Jack in bed.

After we came down, Mrs. Christie lighted the lamp, and we were sitting cosily round the fire
talking of my mother, when suddenly there came a knock at the outer door.

'Who can it be?' said Mrs. Christie hastily; 'some one must be ill, I think, so few people
come on Sunday.'

She was going to the door, but her little maid had already opened it, and coming into the parlour
she announced,--

'There's a gentleman, sir, at the door, says as how he wants Mr. Villiers, sir.'

'A gentleman!' I repeated in astonishment, 'wanting me!'

'Yes, sir, he says he wants you very pertickler, he does.'

I went quickly to the door, wondering very much who could be there, and to my great astonishment
I found my friend Tom Bernard, with a black bag in his hand, eagerly awaiting my approach.

'Found at last, old chap,' he cried when he saw me; 'why, I've been hunting for you all over
in this rabbit-warren of a place, till at last some of these fisher-lads told me you were in here.'

'And what are you doing here, Tom?' I exclaimed.

'Doing here! Why, I've come to see you, of course, old fellow; what else should I have come
for? I set off early this morning, and I thought I would give you a bit of a surprise. Are
these your diggings?'

'No,' I said, 'I'm only spending the evening here; but I'll come back with you at once.'

I went in for a moment to explain my sudden departure to Mr. and Mrs. Christie, and then I
went with Tom to my lodgings. He looked vastly amused when he saw Duncan's house, and when
I told him that I had been there all the time he seemed to think it a capital joke.

'There's no room for me, I'm afraid,' he said, as he looked with an amused smile round my bedroom.

'No, indeed, Tom,' I said, 'and, joking apart, I would not ask you to come here if there was
room; the hotel at the top of the hill will suit you better.'

Polly was sitting beside little John, but I tapped at the door, and told her a friend of mine
had just arrived from London, and asked her if she thought it would be possible to get him
some tea. Just at this moment Duncan came in, and the two good souls did all in their power
to do honour to my guest. The whitest tablecloth was spread on the round table, the very finest
herrings were cooked, round after round of crisp brown toast was buttered and put before the
fire to keep hot, and all was ready in so short a time that Tom was astonished.

He did full justice to the meal, and seemed to appreciate my quarters better after he had partaken
of it. Then he declared himself tired out, so I walked with him up to the hotel. He was in
high spirits, and was much looking forward to the time we were to have there together, and
to all the walks we should take to the places round.

Was I glad that he had come? I asked myself this question many times that night. I was fond
of Tom; he had been like a brother to me, and yet--and yet--I wished he had not come to Runswick
Bay.

Why was this? Why would I have kept him away if I could? I asked myself this question many
times, as I came slowly down the hill that night.

Was it because it would be a hindrance to my work? No, for my picture had made good progress,
and I could work it up even better in my studio at home. Besides which, Tom was a good-natured
fellow, and would sit smoking and chatting in the old boat whilst I painted.

Was it that I wanted to be quiet, and to enjoy my present surroundings without interruption?
No, surely, for Tom's company had always been pleasant to me, and I could not look upon him
as a stranger.

Why was it, then, that I felt almost sorry that he had followed me here? I had a suspicion
of the right answer to that question, but I did not own it, even to myself, till I entered
my lodging.

Duncan was reading a chapter aloud to Polly, as he always did before going to bed. He stopped
when he saw me come in, but I said, 'Go on, Duncan, never mind me; I shall like to listen.'
And the very first words that Duncan read seemed to me to contain the answer to my question.

'He that is ashamed of Me and of My words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed.'

Yes, that was the reason. I was sorry that Tom had come, because I was ashamed of my Master.
Since I had seen him last I had changed my service. I used to be a servant of sin, living for
self, pleasing self in all things. Now, I had crossed the line, I had joined the company of
Christ's servants, and I was afraid of Tom finding it out.

In London I thought I should have seen less of him, and it would have dawned on him gradually;
but here he would discover it at once. And I dreaded his doing so. Yes, I was a downright coward,
ashamed of the One who had died for me. This was not a comfortable reflection, but I was convinced
that it was the truth.

What would be the best thing to do? Should I say anything to Tom about it in the morning? I
thought at first that I would speak, and I made up several sentences with which I meant to
begin; but the more I thought of it so much the more my heart failed me, and I decided at length
that my best plan would be to let Tom find it out for himself.

Chapter XI

LITTLE JACK AND BIG JACK

I think Tom very much enjoyed that week at Runswick Bay. The more he saw of the place the more
he liked it. He and Duncan got on famously together. They smoked together on a seat above the
house, and Duncan told him stories of shipwrecks and storms, whilst I sat painting just below them.

One night he even persuaded Duncan to let him go out with him fishing, and Duncan confided
to me afterwards, 'That there friend of yours, sir, he's a real handy chap; knows how to use
his fingers, sir, and isn't afraid of a drop of salt water neither.'

We came across Mr. Christie on the shore the very first time that we went out together, and
I introduced him as a friend of my mother whom I had been delighted to find in this out-of-the-way
place; and Tom talked very pleasantly to him, and I think liked him.

'What is he doing here, Jack?' he said. 'He does not look like the rest of them.'

'He is a lay-preacher,' I said.

'Whatever in the world is a lay-preacher?' said Tom laughing.

I did not answer, but called his attention to little Jack, who was running along the shore
after his red cap, which had been carried off by a gust of wind.

'That's his little boy,' I said, 'and my namesake; they lived in my father's parish in London,
and Mr. Christie and his wife adored my mother. It was seeing her photograph on the wall of
their room which made them discover who I was.'

'What a splendid little fellow!' said Tom as the child came up to us. 'So you are Jack, are you?'

'Yes, I'm little Jack, and he's big Jack,' said the boy roguishly, looking at me.

I was not surprised that Tom made friends very quickly with my little favourite, for he was
wonderfully fond of children, and many were the games which he and the two children had together
whilst I was at work.

Every evening Tom and I walked together, and we explored all the country for miles around.
Sometimes we went by train and walked back by the cliffs. The train seemed to land us at each
station in the midst of fresh beauty, and I came to the conclusion that Yorkshire was indeed,
what I had always been told by my mother, the most beautiful county in England.

'Now, Jack,' said Tom on Saturday morning, 'we'll have a really good day to-morrow. You won't
want to paint, will you?'

'No,' I said hurriedly, 'I don't paint on Sundays.'

'All right,' he said, 'it's much the best plan; you come fresher to it on Monday. "All work
and no play makes Jack a dull boy." That old couplet must have been made for you, Jack. Well,
then, let's see, where shall we go? Suppose we make a long day of it, and go to Scarborough.
We must see Scarborough before we go home, must we not? We will go by the early train, and
come back as late as we can. The worst of it is there are not so many trains to choose from
on Sunday, but I daresay we shall find one that will suit'; and, without saying another word,
he went off to my lodging for a Bradshaw.

What was I to do? A few weeks ago a Sunday spent in pleasure would have been just what I should
have chosen, and many a time had Tom and I been up the river on Sunday together. There was
hardly a place within easy distance up the Thames which we had not visited in this way. But
now I felt very differently about these things. Sunday was my Master's own day: every moment
of it, I felt, must be consecrated to Him. No one had talked to me about Sunday observance,
but my conscience told me very clearly what was right in the matter. Yet, although I had no
doubt as to what I ought to do in the matter, I am ashamed to say that for some time I hesitated.
Tom would be so terribly disappointed, I said to myself, and he had been a good friend to me,
and I did not want to vex him; surely there would be no great harm in obliging him this once!
Besides, when I get to Scarborough I may have time to go to church, and then, after all, where
is the difference? I argued with myself; I shall take a longer journey to church, that is all.

And then Tom came back, full of his plans for the day. He had already settled the train we
were to catch, and he told me that he looked forward to seeing Scarborough immensely, as his
mother had stayed there a year ago, and she had told him it was the most beautiful watering-place
she had ever visited.

I tried to feel pleased with what Tom had arranged, but in my heart I was very miserable, and
just at that moment who should appear but Marjorie and Jack, distributing the pink papers containing
the invitation to the service on the shore. I turned away when I saw them coming. I looked
towards the sea, and took my little telescope from my pocket, that I might seem to be intent
on watching a distant steamer. What would Duncan say? What would Mr. Christie say? What would
my little friend Jack say, when I did not appear at the shore service? And how shocked they
would be when they heard I had gone off for a day's pleasure!

I hoped that the children would pass us by, and would go to a large group of fishermen standing
on the shore just beyond us. But I was not to escape thus. Marjorie came up to Tom and presented
him with a paper, and she was going to give one to me, but my little friend stopped her, 'No,
no, Marjorie,' he said in his most fascinating tones, 'let me give one to my own Mr. Jack.
I always give you one my own self, don't I, big Jack?'

I patted him on the head and took the paper, but I did not answer, and the children passed
on. Tom opened his paper and read it aloud,--

'"There will be a short service on the shore next Sunday morning." Oh, indeed,' he said, 'that's
what they're after, is it? Distributing notices for some Methodist meeting. Is that where Christie
holds forth?'

'Yes,' I said, 'he preaches every Sunday.'

'Well, Mr. Christie,' he went on, 'you won't have me there to hear you. I hate those canting
meetings, don't you, Jack? Subject. Ah, he tells us his subject beforehand, does he? Very kind
of him, I'm sure! Subject: Where are you going? Ah,' said Tom, 'that's soon answered: I'm going
to Scarborough, old fellow, and a jolly good day I hope to have there'; and he threw the little
pink paper into the air, and the wind carried it far out to sea.

All this time I had never spoken a word. A great battle was going on in my heart. Conscience
was speaking very loudly, and telling me that I could not possibly take my pleasure on my Master's
own day, but the tempter's voice was arguing that the time to speak had not yet come, and that
perhaps for this once it would be better to yield to Tom's wishes, and that I might talk to
him quietly about it, and make a fresh start after our return to London.

And so the day wore away, and evening came, and Tom had no idea whatever that I had even hesitated
about going with him to Scarborough. I never spent a more unhappy day. I avoided Mr. Christie,
lest he should say anything to me about the service on the following day. I was not even happy
with Duncan. Tom had gone off to Saltburn, leaving me, as he supposed, to put some finishing
touches to my picture; but I had no heart for painting, and only got my easel and painting
materials out to put them away again directly.

Polly was in good spirits that day, for little John was so much better that he was able to
sit on the floor and play, and, as I stood looking out of my small casement window, I watched
her washing up in a tub standing on a wooden stool outside her door, and I heard her singing
to herself as she did so. Most of the visitors had left Runswick Bay now, for it was late in
the season, but the shore was covered with the village children--boys and girls without shoes
and stockings, wading in the pools and running far out into the shallow sea. It was a pretty
sight, the grey, quiet water, the strips of yellow sand, and the cliff covered with grass and
flowers.

But I could not enjoy the scene that Saturday evening; even my artistic eye, of which I used
sometimes to boast, failed me then. I was feeling thoroughly uncomfortable, and the most lovely
view on earth would have failed to charm me at that moment.

There is a verse in the Bible which says, 'A little child shall lead them,' and whenever I
hear that verse I think of that evening in Runswick Bay. For I was still gazing out of my window,
looking at I knew not what, when I heard a well-known little voice just beneath me.

It was Jack. He had come down the hill beneath Duncan's cottage, so that I had not seen him
until he spoke to me below the window.

'Mr. Jack,' he said, 'what are you doing up there? Are you very busy?'

'No, old man,' I said, 'I'm not busy.'

'Then do come out, that's a dear, big Mr. Jack; I do want you so much.'

Who could resist the pleading little face, and the pretty, fascinating voice of that child?
He would have a hard heart who could do so. I ran downstairs, and a minute afterwards I was
racing with Jack on the wet sands, for the tide was fast going out, and was helping him to
fly a small kite which his father had bought for him in Whitby. We had a fine time together
on the shore, until at last a towel was hung out of the top window in the Christies' house,
as a sign that it was Jack's bedtime. Though he was wild with joy and excitement, the obedient
little fellow at once stopped his play, and told me mother wanted him, and he must go.

'I'm coming for you to-morrow morning, Mr. Jack,' he said.

'To-morrow morning, Jack?'

'Yes, for church,' said the child, putting up his dear little chubby face to be kissed. 'Don't
go without me, will you, Mr. Jack?'

'Well, I'm not sure I'm going to-morrow, little man,' I said reluctantly, 'so you had better
not call for me.'

'Not going to church!' said Jack, in a very shocked voice. 'Why not, Mr. Jack?'

'I'm going to Scarborough for the day with my friend Tom,' I said. 'I shall go to church in
Scarborough, Jack.'

I shall never forget the expression of that child's face as long as I live; it was a mixture
of surprise, sorrow and dismay. 'Mr. Jack, do you know it's God's day to-morrow?' was all that
he said, however; and as at this moment his mother called him from the bedroom window, he ran
off without another word.

'Do you know it's God's day?' I asked myself when the little boy had gone. 'Yes, I do know,'
I answered aloud, 'and He is my Master, and my Master's day shall be kept for Him and for His
service.'

I walked to a lonely place on the shore where the sea had undermined the cliff, and had made
strange holes and caves, which could only be entered at low tide. I clambered over the rocks,
and crossed about half a mile of slippery seaweed, until I came to one of these weird places.
Creeping inside, I felt myself safe from any human eye. I was alone--alone with my Master.

I cannot tell you all that passed during the half-hour that I spent in that lonely cave, but
I know this, that I came out of it feeling that my Master had indeed given me the strength
for which I had pleaded, the strength to act as His faithful and true servant.

I was waiting outside the station when Tom's train came in from Saltburn. He had not expected
to see me again that night, and seemed pleased that I had come to meet him.

'I think we shall have a fine day to-morrow, old boy,' he said; 'what a dew there is! My feet
are quite wet with it.'

'Tom,' I said, 'I came to meet you to-night because I wanted to tell you something. I am sorry,
very sorry, to disappoint you, but I can't go with you to-morrow.'

'Why ever in the world not, Jack?' he said. 'I thought you were so keen on seeing Scarborough.'

'Yes, Tom,' I said, 'but I am still more keen on something else.'

'What's that?' he asked; 'do you mean Redcar? It's a stupid place, Jack: nothing in the world
to see, I assure you.'

'No, Tom, I don't mean that. I don't want to change our plan. I had rather see Scarborough
than any other place; I'll give myself a holiday on Monday, and go with you gladly, Tom; but
I can't go to-morrow.'

'Nonsense, Jack!' he said angrily. 'You can go if you like; what's to hinder you? If you are
willing to go at all, why on earth can't you go to-morrow?'

'Simply because to-morrow is Sunday, Tom.'

'And if it is Sunday, what of that?' said my friend. '"The better the day, the better the deed,"
and it's ridiculous your talking in this saintly way about Sunday, when to my certain knowledge
you've spent every fine Sunday boating on the river for the last two years or more. No, no,
my friend, that won't go down with me.'

'Tom,' I said, 'it's all quite true what you say. I have, I know I have, spent my Sundays in
boating or in taking my pleasure in some other way, and I am more sorry for it, Tom, than I
can tell you. But since I came here--'

'Since you came here,' Tom interrupted me, 'you've gone and turned Ranter or Methodist, or
something of that sort, and you've got your head full of all sorts of insane and ridiculous ideas.'

'Since I came here, Tom,' I said, taking no notice of his last remark, 'I have seen what I
never saw before--that I am a great sinner; and I have found what I never found before--that
Jesus is a great Saviour.'

'Well, I wish you had never come to Runswick Bay, if this is the absurd way you are going on,
Jack, and after all the good old times we've had together too.'

'And why shan't we have good times together still, dear old Tom?' I said. 'I have entered the
service of a new Master, that's all; and, Tom,' I said timidly, 'I wish He was your Master too.'

Tom made no answer, but swung his stick round and round, and slashed at the thistles and the
ox-eye daisies which grew by the roadside. I tried to make one or two remarks, but I saw he
was very much upset by what I had said, and he did not answer me. He was vexed with me, and
perhaps he was a little uncomfortable besides, and I felt it was far wiser to say no more.

He did not speak again until we reached the hotel, and then he simply said, 'Good-night, Jack,
I'm sorry you've gone and made such a fool of yourself'; and I went down the hill, feeling
as if I had lost my friend, and as if the old days and old companionship were dead and buried
for ever.

But if I had lost one friend, I felt I had gained another. Mr. Christie was waiting for me
at the bottom of the hill, and he proposed that we should take a turn together on the shore.
Nellie was expecting me to supper, he said; he had told Duncan I was going there, and the moon
was coming out, and a good stretch on the sands would make us enjoy it all the more.

We had walked across the bay, and were standing gazing out seawards, when he suddenly put his
arm in mine.

'What is it, Jack?' he said kindly, 'something is troubling you this evening.'

'Yes, you are right,' I said. 'However did you know, Mr. Christie? I am bothered a bit; the
fact is, I'm ashamed of myself, I've been such a coward.'

'What have you been doing, Jack? You don't mind telling me, do you?'

'Not at all, Mr. Christie, I would rather tell you,' I said; and then I gave him an account
of the last week, of my fear of Tom, and how very nearly--I was ashamed to say it--I had yielded
to him about the outing to-morrow. Then I spoke of my friend, and I told him I was afraid I
had lost him through my plain speaking.

'Never mind, Jack,' he said, 'the Master must come first, and it does happen very often that
when He is put in His right place we have to give up a great deal. You would like to be worthy
of Him, Jack?'

'I shall never be that, Mr. Christie,' I said.

'No,' he said; 'you are right, we are all unworthy of Him; but when we love Him, we do long
to do that which is pleasing in His sight. And, remember, there is always the hundredfold,
Jack, always the Master's reward for anything we give up for Him.'

'Yes, in heaven,' I said softly.

'No, Jack, not in heaven, but on earth. Do you remember how the Master's words run: "He shall
receive an hundredfold now, in this time, and in the world to come, life everlasting." The
hundredfold is to be enjoyed here, the everlasting life there.'

'I never noticed that before,' I said.

'I have proved it true, Jack, abundantly true. I sometimes think I have got beyond the hundredfold.
And then beyond, there lies the life eternal.'

'My mother is enjoying that,' I said.

'Yes, indeed,' he answered; 'and her boy will enjoy it too in God's good time, for does not
the Master say of all those who belong to Him, "I give unto them eternal life?" "I am come
that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly"?'

Chapter XII

WHERE ARE YOU GOING?

I shall never forget my last Sunday in Runswick Bay. It was at the end of September, and was
one of those gloriously brilliant days which we get in the early autumn, when the sky is cloudless,
when the air is fresh and clear, and when the autumnal tints on trees, hedges, ferns and brambles
make the landscape gorgeous and extremely beautiful and fascinating.

The high cliff above the bay was a perfect study in colour that morning; I have never seen
more splendid colouring, every varied shade of red and gold and green was to be found there.

'Tom will be off to Scarborough,' I said to myself as I dressed. 'What a grand day he has got!'

But I did not wish myself with him; no, I was both glad and thankful to look forward to a quiet
and peaceful Sunday.

There were not many visitors still at Runswick, most of them had left the week before; but
the fishermen came in great numbers to the service, and the green was covered with them when
little Jack and big Jack appeared, hand-in-hand as usual. Duncan was in the choir, but Polly
thought the wind rather cold for little John, so had remained with him at home. A good many
women and children were present, however, and the bank was covered with mothers and babies,
sitting at a little distance, lest the noise of the children should disturb the preacher or
the listeners.

What was it that made me think of Tom just as the service began? Was it a shepherd's plaid
cloth cap, of the kind Tom wears, which I saw on the head of some visitor who was sitting almost
out of sight on the seaward side of the bank? Such small things bring people and things before
us sometimes, and my thoughts wandered to Scarborough for a few minutes, and I wondered what
Tom was doing at that moment. I thought to myself how he would smile, if he saw me sitting
under the old boat and listening attentively to an open air preacher.

But my thoughts did not wander long, for when the service began every word of it seemed to
be for me.

WHERE ARE YOU GOING? I had worked the subject out in my mind before I came to the service,
and had quite decided what line of thought Mr. Christie would take. I thought he would picture
the two roads, the one leading to life, the other to destruction; and then I imagined that
he would speak of the blessedness of being on the narrow road, and would dwell very vividly
on the awful consequences of continuing to walk on the road leading to hell. But I found that
my idea of what his sermon would be was quite a mistaken one.

'Where are you going? My question to-day,' he said, 'is addressed only to some of you; would
to God it were addressed to you all! I speak to-day to those who have crossed the line, who
have run into the loving Saviour's arms, who have become servants of Christ.

'My friends, my dear friends, where are you going? What does the Master say? He calls to every
one of His servants, and He says, "If any man serve Me, let him follow Me, and where I am there
shall also My servant be."

'Servant of Christ, where are you going? The Master answers you, WHERE I AM.

'And where is that? A little group of men are standing on the Mount of Olives; above them is
the deep blue sky, and they are gazing earnestly upward, for their Master is rising far above
them, and even as they watch a cloud receives Him out of their sight. Yet still He ascends
higher and yet higher, and as He rises countless angels attend Him. He is joined by company
after company of the heavenly host, who have come out to meet their King. Amidst heaven's most
joyful music the Master passes within to the Heavenly Jerusalem, the glad, glorious Home. Every
care, every sin, every sorrow is left outside; within all is sunshine, all is joy. And as heaven's
gates are closing, we hear the Master's voice. He leaves us a word of hope, "Where I am, there
shall also My servant be."

'Oh, fishermen, oh, friends, think of that! If you are His servants, those gates will open
for you. Your life may be hard now: some of you have large families, and heavy work, and long,
cold, comfortless nights tossing on the stormy sea; but never mind, home is coming, heaven
is coming, for "Where I am, there shall also My servant be."

'But that is not all. There is something more wonderful still. For where is the Master now?
He is not only inside the gates of the city, He is not only walking through the golden streets;
but He is in the midst of the glory of God, He has sat down on the right hand of the throne
of God. Will you and I, dear friends, ever dare to go near that throne? Will not the glory
be too dazzling? Will not the place be holy ground, too holy for us to approach? Will He allow
us to draw near to His footstool, and even there, close to His glory, to lie low before Him?

'Listen, O servant of Christ, again the Master says, "Where I am, there shall also My servant be."

'What, on the throne of God! Yes, even there He bids you come; for what does He say? Oh, what
a wonderful promise! We could never have thought of it; we could never have believed it; we
could never even have dreamt of such a thing, if the Master had not told us Himself.'

And then he concluded by asking us to remember our glorious future. 'Sometimes,' he said, 'you
get downhearted, full of sorrow and fear, and you say, "I shall never hold on to the end."
Oh, dear friends, it is worth an effort, for at the end lies home, at the end stands the throne
of God, with a place waiting for you upon it. "Where I am, there shall also My servant be."

'What if you have to bear something for the Master's sake? What if you have to give up friends
or comforts for Him? What if you have to take up your cross and follow Him? It is only for
a few days, only for a little while, and home is coming. "Where I am, there shall also My servant
be." Is it not worth while?'

Then, as he ended, he spoke a few words to all who were there, and he begged those who were
not servants of Christ, to consider what they were losing. 'All this might be yours,' he said,
'the wide-open gates, the Heavenly City, the seat on the glorious Throne; but you are turning
your backs on it all, and you are choosing instead--what? A few of earth's fleeting pleasures,
a little of this world's passing enjoyment. Oh, dear friends, think before it is too late,
what your eternal loss will be!'

He said much more, but I cannot remember it now. I only know that I came away feeling that
I had been very near the golden gates of which he spoke, and had heard the Master's voice saying
to me, 'Where I am, there shall also My servant be.'

The tide was coming in as we left the service, and I was standing on the shore watching the
waves rolling in over the rocks, when I felt an arm slipped in mine, and when I looked round,
to my great surprise, I found that it was Tom.

