"Mr. L---- was also paid, out of these proceeds, a further sum of £57,318, nearly the whole
of which seems to be a payment in discharge of an allowance of £8 per bond in respect of the
dealings in the 1867 loan.... In addition ... it will be remembered that Mr. L---- received
£50,000 'to maintain the credit of Honduras.'

"He also on the 18th of June, 1872, obtained £173,570 by delivering to the trustees ... 5042
bonds of the 1870 loan, at £75 Per bond and 33,000 bonds of the 1869 loan at 104 francs per
bond, and retaking them at the same time from the trustees at £50 and 104 francs per bond respectively.
Mr. L---- had contracted to pay for these bonds and they had been issued to him at the prices
of £75 and 104 francs respectively, and the remission in the price therefore amounted to a
gift to him of £173,570 ... out of this portion of the loan of 1869, and the loan of 1870,
Mr. L----has received in cash, or by the remission of his contracts, £955,398."

It is little wonder that Honduras has been in default on these loans ever since. In its Report
the Committee commented severely on the action of Don C---- G----, the London representative
of the Republic. "He sanctioned," it says, "Stock Exchange dealings and speculations in the
loans which no Minister should have sanctioned. He was a party to the purchase of the mahogany
cargoes, and permitted the public to be misled by the announcements in relation to them. By
express contract he authorized the 'additional drawings.' He assisted Mr. L---- to appropriate
to himself large sums out of the proceeds of the loans to which he was not entitled." Very
likely he had not a notion as to what the whole thing meant, and only thought that he was doing
his best to finance his country along the road to wealth. But the fact remains that by these
actions he made his Government a party to the proceedings that were so unfortunate for it and
so ruinous to the holders of its bonds.

After its examination of these and other less sensational but equally disastrous issues the
Committee made various recommendations, chiefly in the direction of greater publicity in prospectuses,
and ended by expressing their conviction that "the best security against the recurrence of
such evils as they have above described will be found, not so much in legislative enactments,
as in the enlightenment of the public as to their real nature and origin."

If the scandals and losses involved by loan issues were always on this Gargantuan scale, there
would be little difficulty about disposing of them, both on economic and moral grounds, and
showing that there is, and can be, only one side to the problem. But when it is only a question,
not of fraud on a great scale but of a certain amount of underhand business, such as is quite
usual in some latitudes, and a certain amount of doubt as to the use that is likely to be made
by the borrower of the money placed at its disposal, it is not so easy to feel sure about the
duty of an issuing house in handling foreign loans. At a point, in fact, the question becomes
full of subtleties and casuistical difficulties.

For instance, let us suppose that an emissary of the Republic of Barataria approaches a London
issuing house and intimates that it wants a loan for 3 millions sterling, to be spent half
in increasing the Republic's navy, and half in covering a deficit in its Budget, and that he,
the said emissary, has full power to treat for the loan, and that a commission of 2 per cent.
is to be paid to him by the issuing house, which can have the loan at a price that will easily
enable it to pay this commission. That is to say, we will suppose that the Republic will take
85 for the price of its bonds, which are to carry 5 per cent. interest, to be secured by a
lien on the customs receipts, and to be redeemed in thirty years' time by a cumulative Sinking
Fund working by annual drawings at par, or by purchase in the market if the bonds can be bought
below par. If the Republic's existing 5 per cent. bonds stand, let us say, at 98 in the market,
this gives the issuing house a good prospect of being able to sell the new ones easily at 95,
and so it has a 10 per cent. margin out of which to pay stamps, underwriting and other expenses,
and commission to the intermediary who brought the proposal, and to keep a big profit to themselves.
From the point of view of their own immediate interest there is every reason why they should
close with the bargain, especially if we assume that the Republic is fairly rich and prosperous,
and that there is little fear that its creditors will be left in the lurch by default.

From the point of view of national interest there is also much to be said for concluding the
transaction. We may, with very good ground, assume that it would also be intimated to the issuing
house that a group of Continental financiers was very willing to take the business up, that
it had only been offered to it owing to old standing relations between it and the Republic,
and that, if it did not wish to do the business, the loan would readily be raised in Paris
or Berlin. By refusing, the London firm would thus prevent all the profit made by the operation
from coming to England instead of to a foreign centre. But there is much more behind. For we
have seen that finance and trade go hand-in-hand, and that when loan-houses in the City make
advances to foreign countries, the hives of industry in the North are likely to be busy. It
has not been usual here to make any express stipulation to the effect that the money, or part
of it, raised by a loan is to be spent in England, but it is clear that when a nation borrows
in England it is thereby predisposed to giving orders to English industry for goods that it
proposes to buy. And even if it does not do so, the mere fact that England promises, by making
the loan, to hand over so much money, in effect obliges her to sell goods or services valued
at that amount as was shown on an earlier page.[6] On the Continent, this stipulation is usual.
So that the issuing house would know that, if they make the loan, it is likely that English
shipbuilders will get the orders on which part of it is to be spent, and that in any case English
industry in one form or another will be drawn on to supply goods or services to somebody; whereas
if they refuse the business it is certain that the industrial work involved will be lost to
England.

On the other side of the account there are plenty of good reasons against the business. In
the first place the terms offered are so onerous to the borrower that it may safely be said
that no respectable issuing house in London would look at them. In effect the Republic would
be paying nearly 6 per cent, on the money, if it sold its 5 per cent. bonds at 85, and the
state of its credit, as expressed by the price of its bonds in the market, would not justify
such a rate. The profit offered to the issuing house is too big, and the commission demanded
by the intermediary is so large that it plainly points to evil practices in Barataria. It means
that interested parties have made underhand arrangements with the Finance Minister, and that
the Republic is going to be plundered, not in the fine full-flavoured style that ruled in earlier
generations, but to an extent that makes the business too disreputable to handle. Any honourable
English house would consider that the terms offered to itself and the conditions proposed by
the emissary were such that the operation was suspicious, and that being mixed up with suspicious
business was a luxury that it preferred to leave alone.

On other grounds the loan, well secured as it seems to be, is not of a kind to be encouraged.
We have supposed its purpose to be, firstly, to meet a deficit in a Budget, and secondly, to
pay for naval expansion. Neither of these objects is going to improve the financial position
of the Republic. Covering a deficit by loan is bad finance in any case, but especially so when
the loan is raised abroad. In the latter case it is most likely that the borrowing State is
outrunning the constable, by importing more goods than it can pay for out of current production.

If it imports for the purpose of increasing its productive power by buying such things as railway
material, then it is making a perfectly legitimate use of its credit, as long as the money
is well spent, and the railways are honestly built, with a prospect of opening up good country,
and are not put into the wrong place for political or other reasons. But if this were so, the
money would not be wanted to balance a Budget, but on railway capital account. When a balance
has to be filled by borrowing it can only mean that the State has spent more than its revenue
from taxes permits, and that it is afraid to cut down its expenses by retrenchment or to increase
its revenue by taxing more highly. And so it chooses the primrose path of dalliance with a
moneylender.

As to naval expenditure, here again we have bad finance writ large over the proposal. It is
not good business for countries to borrow in order to increase their armies and navies in time
of peace, and the practice is especially objectionable when the loan is raised abroad. In time
of war, when expenditure has to be so great and so rapid, that the taxpayers could not be expected
to have it all taken out of their pockets by the tax-gatherer, there is some excuse for borrowing
for naval and military needs; though even in time of war, if we could imagine an ideal State,
with every citizen truly patriotic, and properly educated in economics and finance, and with
wealth so fairly distributed and taxation so fairly imposed that there would be no possibility
of any feeling of grievance and irritation among any class of taxpayers, it would probably
decide that the simplest and most honest way of financing war is to do so wholly out of taxation.
In time of peace, borrowing for expenditure on defence simply means that the cost of a need
of to-day is met by someone who is hired to meet it, by a promise of interest and repayment,
the provision of which is passed on to the citizens of to-morrow. It is always urged, of course,
that the citizens of to-morrow are as deeply interested in the defence of the realm that they
are to inherit as those of to-day, but that argument ignores the obvious fact that to-morrow
will bring its own problems of defence with it, which seem likely to be at least as costly
as those of the present day. Another objection to lending economically backward countries money
to be invested in ships, is that we thereby encourage them to engage in shipbuilding rivalry,
and to join in that race for aggressive power which has laid so sore a burden on the older
peoples. The business is also complicated by the unpleasant activities of the armament firms
of all countries, which are said to expend much ingenuity in inducing the Governments of the
backward peoples to indulge in the luxury of battleships. Here, again, there is no need to
paint too lurid a picture. The armament firms are manufacturers with an article to sell, which
is important to the existence of any nation with a seaboard; and they are entirely justified
in legitimate endeavours to push their wares. The fact that the armament firms of England,
Germany, and France had certain interests in common, is often used as a text for sermons on
the subject of the unpatriotic cynicism of international finance. It is easy to paint them
as a ring of cold-blooded devils trying to stimulate bloodthirsty feeling between the nations
so that there may be a good market for weapons of destruction. From their point of view, they
are providers of engines of defence which they make, in the first place, for the use of their
own country, and are ready to supply also, in time of peace, to other nations in order that
their plant may be kept running, and the cost of production may be kept low. This is one of
the matters on which public opinion may have something to say when the war is over. In the
meantime it may be noted that unsavoury scandals have occasionally arisen in connection with
the placing of battleship orders, and that this is another reason why a loan to finance them
is likely to have an unpleasant flavour in the nostrils of the fastidious.

But if we admit the very worst that the most searching critic of international finance can
allege against the proposal that we imagine to be put forward by the Republic of Barataria--if
we admit that a loan to balance a deficit and pay for ships probably implies wastefulness,
corruption, political rottenness, impecunious Chauvinism and all the rest of it, the question
still arises whether it is the business of an issuing house to refuse the chance of doing good
business for itself and for the London money-market, because it has reason to believe that
the money lent will not be well spent. In the case supposed, we have seen that the terms offered
and the commission to be made by the intermediary were such that the latter would have been
shown the door. But if these matters had been satisfactory, ought the proposal to have been
rejected because the loan was to be raised for unproductive purposes?

In other words, is it the business of an issuing house to take care of the economic morals
of its clients, or is it merely concerned to see that the securities which it offers to the
public are well secured? In ordinary life, and in the relations between moneylender and borrower
at home, no such question could be asked. If I went to my banker and asked for a loan and gave
him security that he thought good enough, it would not occur to him to ask what I was going
to do with the money--whether I was going to use it in a way that would increase my earning
capacity, or on building myself a billiard room and a conservatory, or on a visit to Monte
Carlo. He would only be concerned with making sure that any of his depositors' money that he
lent to me would be repaid in due course, and the manner in which I used or abused the funds
lent to me would be a question in which I only was concerned. If it is the business of an international
finance house to be more careful about the use to which money that it lends on behalf of clients
is put, why should this be so?

There are several reasons. First, because if the borrower does not see fit to pay interest
on the loan or repay it when it falls due, there is no process of law by which the lender can
recover. If I borrow from my banker and then default on my debt, he can put me in the bankruptcy
court, and sell me up. Probably he will have protected himself by making me pledge securities
that he can seize if I do not pay, a safeguard which cannot be had in the case of international
borrowing; but if these securities are found to be of too little value to make the debt good,
everything else that I own can be attached by him. The international moneylender, on the other
hand, if his debtor defaults may, if he is lucky, induce his Government to bring diplomatic
pressure to bear, for whatever that may be worth. If there is a political purpose to be served,
as in Egypt, he may even find himself used as an excuse for armed intervention, in the course
of which his claims will be supported, and made good. In many cases, however, he and the bondholders
who subscribed to his issue simply have to say goodbye to their money, with the best grace
that they can muster, in the absence of any law by which a lender can recover moneys advanced
to a sovereign State. With this essential difference in the conditions under which a banker
lends his depositors' money to a local customer, and those under which an international house
lends its clients' money to a borrowing country, it follows that the responsible party in the
latter case ought to exercise very much more care to see that the money is well spent.

In the second place, the customers to whom bankers, in economically civilized lands, lend the
money entrusted to them, may fairly be presumed to know something about the use and abuse of
money and to be able to take care of themselves. If they borrow money, and then waste it or
spend it in riotous living, they know that they will presently impoverish themselves, and that
they will be the sufferers. But in the case of a young country, with all its financial experience
yet unbought, there is little or no reason for supposing that its rulers are aware that they
cannot eat their cake and have it. They probably think that by borrowing to meet a deficit
or to build a Dreadnought they are doing something quite clever, dipping their hands into a
horn of plenty that a kindly Providence has designed for their behoof, and that the loan will
somehow, some day, get itself paid without any trouble to anybody. Moreover, if they are troubled
with any forebodings, the voice of common sense is likely to be hushed by the reflection that
they personally will not be the sufferers, but the great body of taxpayers, or in the case
of actual default, the deluded bondholders; and that in any case, the trouble caused by over-borrowing
and bad spending is not likely to come to a head for some years. Its first effect is a flush
of fictitious prosperity which makes everybody happy and enhances the reputation of the ministers
who have arranged it. When, years after, the evil seed sown has brought to light its crops
of tares, it is very unlikely that the chain of cause and effect will be recognized by its
victims, who are much more likely to lay the bad harvest to the door not of the bad financier
who sowed it, but of some innocent and perhaps wholly virtuous successor, merely because it
was during his term of office that the crop was garnered. So many are the inducements offered
to young States, with ignorant or evil (or both) rulers at their head, to abuse the facilities
given them by international finance, that there is all the more reason why those who hold the
strings of its purse should exercise very great caution in allowing them to dip into it.

There is yet another reason why the attitude of an issuing house, to a borrowing State, should
be paternal or even grand-motherly, as compared with the purely business-like attitude of a
banker to a local borrower. If the bank makes a bad debt, it has to make it good to its depositors
at the expense of its shareholders. It diminishes the amount that can be paid in dividends
and so the bank is actually out of pocket. The international financier is in quite a different
position. If he arranges a loan for Barataria, he takes his profit on the transaction, sells
the bonds to investors, or to the underwriters if investors do not apply, and is, from the
purely business point of view, quit of the whole operation. He still remains responsible for
receiving from the State, and paying to the bondholders, the sum due each half year in interest,
and for seeing to the redemption of the bonds by the operation of the Sinking Fund, if any.
But if anything goes wrong with the interest or Sinking Fund he is not liable to the bondholders,
as the bank is liable to its depositors. They have got their bonds, and if the bonds are in
default they have made a bad debt and not the issuing house, unless, as is unlikely, it has
kept any of them in its own hands.

But this absence of any legal liability on the part of the issuing house imposes on it a very
strong moral obligation, which is fully recognized by the best of them. Just because the bondholders
have no right of action against it, unless it can be shown that it issued a prospectus containing
incorrect statements, it is all the more bound to see that their money shall not be imperilled
by any action of its own. It knows that a firm with a good reputation as an international finance
house has only to put its name to an issue, and a large number of investors, who have neither
the education nor the knowledge required to form a judgment on its merits, will send in subscriptions
for the bonds on the strength of the name of the issuing house. This fact makes it an obvious
duty on the part of the latter to see that this trust is deserved. Moreover, it would obviously
be bad business on their part to neglect this duty. For a good reputation as an issuing house
takes years to build up, and is very easily shaken by any mistake, or even by any accident,
which could not have been foreseen but yet brings a loan that it has handled into the list
of doubtful payers. Mr. Brailsford, indeed, asserts that it may be to the advantage of bondholders
to be faced by default on the part of their debtors. It may be so in those rare cases in which
they can get reparation and increased security, as in the case of our seizure of Egypt. But
in nine cases out of ten, as is shown by the plaintive story told by the yearly reports of
the Council of Foreign Bondholders, default means loss and a shock to confidence, even if only
temporary, and is generally followed by a composition involving a permanent reduction in debt
and interest. Investors who have suffered these unpleasantnesses are likely to remember them
for many a long year, and to remember also the name of the issuing house which fathered the
loan that was the cause of the trouble.

There are thus many good reasons why it is the business of a careful issuing firm to see not
only that any loan that it offers is well secured, but also that it is to be spent on objects
that will not impair the productive capacity of the borrowing country by leading it down the
path of extravagance, but will improve it by developing its resources or increasing its power
to move its products. On the other hand, the temptation to undertake bad business on behalf
of an importunate borrower is great. The profits are considerable for the issuing house and
for all their followers in the City. The indirect advantages, in the way of trade orders, conferred
on the lending country, are also profitable, and there is always the fear that if London firms
take too austere a view of what is good business for them and the borrowing countries, the
more accommodating loan-mongers of foreign centres may reap the benefit, and leave them with
empty pockets and the somewhat chilly comfort conferred by the consciousness of a high ideal
in finance.

One of the most unsatisfactory features about the monetary arrangements of society, as at present
constituted, is the fact that the reward of effort is so often greater with every degree of
evil involved by the effort. And to some extent this is true in finance. Just as big fortunes
are made by the cheap-jacks who stuff the stomachs of an ignorant public with patent medicines,
while doctors slave patiently for a pittance on the unsavoury task of keeping overfed people
in health; just as Milton got £5 for "Paradise Lost," while certain modern novelists are rewarded
with thousands of pounds for writing romances which would never be printed in a really educated
community; so in finance the more questionable--up to a certain point--be the security to be
handled, the greater are the profits of the issuing house, the larger the commissions of the
underwriters and brokers, and the larger are the amounts paid to the newspapers for advertising.
As has already been observed, that part of the City that lives on handling new issues has been
half starved since the war began, because its activities have been practically confined to
loans issued by the British Government. These loans have been huge in amount but there has
been no underwriting, and brokerages are cut to the bone. Advertising for the second War Loan
was on a great scale, but in proportion to the amount subscribed the cost of it was probably
small, according to the ideals that ruled before the war. A Colonial loan, or a first-class
American railroad bond, almost places itself, and the profits on the issue to all who handle
it are proportionately low. The more questionable the security, the more it has to pay for
its footing, and the higher are the profits of those who father it and assist the process of
delivery, as long, that is, as the birth is successfully accomplished.

If there is failure, partial or complete, then the task of holding the baby is longer and more
uncomfortable, the more puny and unattractive it is. If, owing to some accident in the monetary
atmosphere, a Colonial loan does not go off well, the underwriters who find themselves saddled
with it, can easily borrow on it, in normal times, and know that sooner or later trustees and
other real investors will take it off their hands. But if it is an issue of some minor European
power, or of some not too opulent South American State, that is coldly received by the investing
public, bankers will want a big margin before they accept it as security for an advance, and
it may take years to find a home for it in the strong boxes of real investors, and then perhaps
only at a price that will leave the underwriters, like Sir Andrew Aguecheek, "a foul way out."
There is thus a logical reason for the higher profits attached to the more questionable issues,
and this reason is found in the greater risk attached, if failure should ensue.

Thus we arrive at the reply to those who criticize International Finance on the ground that
it puts too big profits into the pockets of those who handle it. If the profits are big, it
is only in the case of loan issues which carry with them a considerable risk to the reputation
of the fathering firm, and to the pockets of the underwriters, and involve a responsibility,
and in the case of default, an amount of wholly unpaid work and anxiety for which the big profits
made on the opening proceedings do not nearly compensate. As in the case of the big gains made
by patent pill merchants, and bad novelists, it is the public, which is so fond of grumbling
because other people make fortunes out of it, that is really responsible for their doing so,
by reason of its own greed and stupidity. Because it will not take the trouble to find out
how to spend or invest its money, it asks those who are clever enough to batten on its foibles,
to sell it bad stuff and bad securities, and then feels hurt because it has a pain in its inside,
or a worthless bond at its banker's, while the producers thereof are founding county families.
If the public would learn the A B C of investment, and also learn that there is an essential
difference between investment and speculation, that they will not blend easily but are likely
to spoil one another if one tries to mix them, then the whole business of loan issuing and
company promotion would be on a sounder basis, with less risk to those who handle it, and less
temptation to them to try for big profits out of bad ventures. But as long as

  "the fool multitude that choose by show"

give more attention to the size of an advertisement than to the merits of the security that
it offers, the profits of those who cater for its weaknesses will wax fat.

When all has been said that can be urged against the record of international finance, the fact
remains that from the purely material point of view it has done a great work in increasing
the wealth of mankind. It is true that capital has often been wasted by being lent to corrupt
or improvident borrowers for purposes which were either objectionable in themselves, or which
ought to have been financed, if at all, out of current revenue. It is true, also, that crimes
have been committed, as in the case of the Putumayo horrors, when the money of English shareholders
has been invested in the exploitation of helpless natives, accompanied by circumstances of
atrocious barbarity. Nevertheless if we compare the record of finance with that of religion
or international politics, it stands out as by far the cleanest of the influences that have
worked upon the mutual relations of the various groups of mankind. International Finance makes
a series of bargains between one nation and another, for the mutual benefit of each, complicated
by occasional blunders, some robbery, and, in exceptional cases, horrible brutality. Religion
has stained history with the most ruthless massacres, and the most unspeakable ingenuity in
torture, all devised for the glory of God, and the furtherance of what its devotees believed
to be His word. International politics have plunged mankind into a series of bloody and destructive
wars, culminating in the present cataclysm. Finance can only prosper through production; its
efforts are inevitably failures, if they do not tend to the growing and making of things, or
the production of services, that are wanted. Destruction, reduced to a fine art and embellished
by the nicest ingenuities of the most carefully applied science, is the weapon of international
politics.

     Note.--The names of the actors in the Honduras drama were
     printed in blank because it seemed unfair to do otherwise,
     in revising fifty years' old scandals, as an example of what
     International Finance can do at its worst.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: Merchant of Venice, I, 3.]

[Footnote 6: Pages 75, 76. (NOTE: See Chapter IV, "In the beginnings of international trade...")]

CHAPTER VII

NATIONALISM AND FINANCE

So far we have considered the working of International Finance chiefly from the point of view
of its effects upon the prosperity and comfort of mankind as a whole and on this country, as
the greatest trader, carrier, and financier of the world. We have seen that the benefit that
it works is wrought chiefly through specialization, that is, through the production of the
good things of the earth in the lands best fitted, by climate or otherwise, to grow and make
them. By lending money to other lands, and the goods and service that they have bought with
it, we have helped them to produce things for us to consume, or to work up into other things
for our consumption or that of other peoples. Thereby we have enriched ourselves and the rest
of mankind. But the question still arises whether this process is one that should be left altogether
unchecked, or whether it involves evils which go far to modify its benefits. In other words
is it a good thing for us, socially and politically, to enrich ourselves beyond a certain point
by a process which involves our dependence on other countries for food and raw material?

