'Not at all, Mr. Shand. And I quite understand that it should be difficult for you to understand.
When a man sees a thing clearly himself he cannot always realise the fact that others do not
see it also. I think I perceive what you have to tell us, and we are very much obliged to you
for coming forward so immediately. Perhaps you would not mind sitting in the other room for
five minutes while I say a word to Mr. Seely.'

'I can go away altogether.'

'Mr. Seely will be glad to see you again with reference to the deposition you will have to
make. You shall not be kept waiting long.' Then Dick returned, with a sore heart, feeling half
inclined to blaze out in wrath against the great advocate. He had come forward to tell a plain
story, having nothing to gain, paying his railway fare and other expenses out of his own--or
rather out of his father's pocket, and was told he would not be believed! It is always hard
to make an honest witness understand that it may be the duty of others to believe him to be
a liar, and Dick Shand did not understand it now.

'There was no Australian marriage,' Sir John said as soon as he was alone with Mr. Seely.

'You think not?'

'My mind is clear about it. We must get that man out, if it be only for the sake of the lady.'

'It is so very easy, Sir John, to have a story like that made up.'

'I have had to do with a good many made-up stories, Mr. Seely;--and with a good many true stories.'

'Of course, Sir John;--no man with more.'

'He might be a party to making up a story. There is nothing that I have seen in him to make
me sure that he could not come forward with a determined perjury. I shouldn't think it, but
it would be possible. But his father and mother and sisters wouldn't join him.' Dick had told
the story of the meeting on the lawn at great length. 'And had it been a plot, he couldn't
have imposed upon them. He wouldn't have brought them into it. And who would have got at him
to arrange the plot?'

'Old Caldigate.'

Sir John shook his head. 'Neither old Caldigate nor young Caldigate knew anything of that kind
of work. And then his story tallies altogether with my hero Bagwax. Of Bagwax I am quite sure.
And as Shand corroborates Bagwax, I am nearly sure of him also. You must take his deposition,
and let me have it. It should be rather full, as it may be necessary to hear the depositions
also of the doctor and his wife. We shall have to get him out.'

'You know best, Sir John.'

'We shall have to get him out, Mr. Seely, I think,' said Sir John, rising from his chair. Then
Mr. Seely took his leave, as was intended.

Mr. Seely was not at all convinced. He was quite willing that John Caldigate should be released
from prison, and that the Australian marriage should be so put out of general credit in England
as to allow the young people to live in comfort at Folking as man and wife. But he liked to
feel that he knew better himself. He would have been quite content that Mrs. John Caldigate
should be Mrs. John Caldigate to all the world,--that all the world should be imposed on,--so
that he was made subject to no imposition. In this matter, Sir John appeared to him to be no
wider awake than a mere layman. It was clear to Mr. Seely that Dick Shand's story was 'got
up,'--and very well got up. He had no pang of conscience as to using it. But when it came to
believing it, that was quite another thing. The man turning up exactly at the moment! And such
a man! And then his pretending never to have heard of a case so famous! Never to have heard
this story of his most intimate friend! And then his notorious poverty! Old Caldigate would
of course be able to buy such a man. And then Sir John's fatuity as to Bagwax! He could hardly
bring himself to believe that Sir John was quite in earnest. But he was well aware that Sir
John would know,--no one better,--by what arguments such a verdict as had been given might
be practically set aside. The verdict would remain. But a pardon, if a pardon could be got
from the Secretary of State, would make the condition of the husband and wife the same as though
there had been no verdict. The indignities which they had already suffered would simply produce
for them the affectionate commendation of all England. Mr. Seely felt all that, and was not
at all averse to a pardon. He was not at all disposed to be severe on Caldigate senior if,
as he thought, Caldigate senior had bribed this convenient new witness. But it was too much
to expect that he should believe it all himself.

'You must come with me, Mr. Shand,' he said, 'and we must take your story down in writing.
Then you must swear to it before a magistrate.'

'All right, Mr. Seely.'

'We must be very particular, you know.'

'I needn't be particular at all;--and as to what Sir John Joram said, I felt half inclined
to punch his head.'

'That wouldn't have helped us.'

'It was only that I thought of Caldigate in prison that I didn't do it. Because I have been
roaming about the world, not always quite as well off as himself, he tells me that he doesn't
believe my word.'

'I don't think he said that.'

'He didn't quite dare; but what he said was as bad. He told me that some one else wouldn't
believe it. I don't quite understand what it is they're not to believe. All I say is, that
they two were not married in May '73.'

'But about your never having heard of the case till you got home?'

'I never had heard a word about it. One would think that I had done something wrong in coming
forward to tell what I know.' The deposition, however was drawn out in due form, at considerable
length, and was properly attested before one of the London magistrates.

Chapter LI

Dick Shand Goes To Cambridgeshire

The news of Shand's return was soon common in Cambridge. The tidings, of course, were told
to Mr. Caldigate, and were then made known by him to Hester. The old man, though he turned
the matter much in his mind,--doubting whether the hopes thus raised would not add to Hester's
sorrow should they not ultimately be realised,--decided that he could not keep her in the dark.
Her belief could not be changed by any statement which Shand might make. Her faith was so strong
that no evidence could shake it,--or confirm it. But there would, no doubt, arise in her mind
a hope of liberation if any new evidence against the Australian marriage were to reach her;
which hope might so probably be delusive! But he knew her to be strong to endure as well as
strong to hope, and therefore he told her at once. Then Mr. Seely returned to Cambridge, and
all the facts of Shand's deposition were made known at Folking. 'That will get him out at once,
of course,' said Hester, triumphantly, as soon as she heard it. But the Squire was older and
more cautious, and still doubted. He explained that Dick Shand was not a man who by his simple
word would certainly convince a Secretary of State;--that deceit might be suspected;--that
a fraudulent plot would be possible; and that very much care was necessary before a convicted
prisoner would be released.

'I am quite sure, from Mr. Seely's manner, that he thinks I have bribed the young man,' said
Caldigate.

'You!'

'Yes;--I. These are the ideas which naturally come into people's heads. I am not in the least
angry with Mr. Seely, and feel that it is only too likely that the Secretary of State and the
judge will think the same. If I were Secretary of State I should have to think so.'

'I couldn't suspect people like that.'

'And therefore, my dear, you are hardly fit to be Secretary of State. We must not be too sanguine.
That is all.'

But Hester was very sanguine. When it was fully known that Dick had written to Mr. Seely immediately
on his arrival at Pollington, and that he had shown himself to be a warm partisan in the Caldigate
interests, she could not rest till she saw him herself, and persuaded Mr. Caldigate to invite
him down to Folking. To Folking therefore he went, with the full intention of declaring John
Caldigate's innocence, not only there, but all through Cambridgeshire. The Boltons, of whom
he had now heard something, should be made to know what an honest man had to say on the subject,--an
honest man, and who was really on the spot at the time. To Dick's mind it was marvellous that
the Boltons should have been anxious to secure a verdict against Caldigate,--which verdict
was also against their own daughter and their own sister. Being quite sure himself that Caldigate
was innocent, he could not understand the condition of feeling which would be produced by an
equally strong conviction of his guilt. Nor was his mind, probably, imbued with much of that
religious scruple which made the idea of a feigned marriage so insupportable to all Hester's
relations. Nor was he aware that when a man has taken a preconception home to himself and fastened
it and fixed it, as it were, into his bosom, he cannot easily expel it,--even though personal
interest should be on the side of such expulsion. It had become a settled belief with the Boltons
that John Caldigate was a bigamist, which belief had certainly been strengthened by the pertinacious
hostility of Hester's mother. Dick had heard something of all this, and thought that he would
be able to open their eyes.

When he arrived at Folking he was received with open arms. Sir John Joram had not quite liked
him, because his manner had been rough. Mr. Seely had regarded him from the first as a ruined
man, and therefore a willing perjurer. Even at Pollington his 'bush' manners had been a little
distasteful to all except his mother. Mr. Caldigate felt some difficulty in making conversation
with him. But to Hester he was as an angel from heaven. She was never tired of hearing from
him every detail as to her husband's life at Ahalala and Nobble,--particularly as to his life
after Euphemia Smith had taken herself to those parts and had quarrelled with him. The fact
of the early infatuation had been acknowledged on all sides. Hester was able to refer to that
as a mother, boasting of her child's health, may refer to the measles,--which have been bad
and are past and gone. Euphemia Smith had been her husband's measles. Men generally have the
measles. That was a thing so completely acknowledged, that it was not now the source of discomfort.
And the disease had been very bad with him. So bad that he had talked of marriage,--had promised
marriage. Crafty women do get hold of innocent men, and drive them sometimes into perdition,--often
to the brink of perdition. That was Hester's theory as to her husband. He had been on the brink,
but had been wise in time. That was her creed, and as it was supported by Dick, she found no
fault with Dick's manner,--not even with the yellow trousers which were brought into use at
Folking.

'You were with him on that very day,' she said. This referred to the day in April on which
it had been sworn that the marriage was solemnized.

'I was with him every day about that time. I can't say about particular days. The truth is,--I
don't mind telling you, Mrs. Caldigate,--I was drinking a good deal just then.' His present
state of abstinence had of course become known at Folking, not without the expression of much
marvel on the part of the old Squire as to the quantity of tea which their visitor was able
to swallow. And as this abstinence had of course been admired, Dick had fallen into a way of
confessing his past backslidings to a pretty, sympathetic friendly woman, who was willing to
believe all that he said, and to make much of him.

'But I suppose----' Then she hesitated; and Dick understood the hesitation.

'I was never so bad,' said he, 'but what I knew very well what was going on. I don't believe
Caldigate and Mrs. Smith even so much as spoke to each other all that month. She had had a
wonderful turn of luck.'

'In getting gold?'

'She had bought and sold shares till she was supposed to have made a pot of money. People up
there got an idea that she was one of the lucky ones,--and it did seem so. Then she got it
into her head that she didn't want Caldigate to know about her money, and he was downright
sick of her. She had been good-looking at one time, Mrs. Caldigate.'

'I daresay. Most of them are so, I suppose.'

'And clever. She'd talk the hind-legs off a dog, as we used to say out there.'

'You had very odd sayings, Mr. Shand.'

'Indeed we had. But when she got in that way about her money, and then took to drinking brandy,
Caldigate was only too glad to be rid of her. Crinkett believed in her because she had such
a run of luck. She held a lot of his shares,--shares that used to be his. So they got together,
and she left Ahalala and went to Polyeuka Hall. I remember it all as if it were yesterday.
When I broke away from Caldigate in June, and went to Queensland, they hadn't seen each other
for two months. And as for having been married;--you might as well tell me that I had married her!'

If Mr. Caldigate had ever allowed a shade of doubt to cross his mind as to his son's story,
Dick Shand's further story removed it. The picture of the life which was led at Ahalala and
Nobble was painted for him clearly, so that he could see, or fancy that he saw, what the condition
of things had been. And this increased faith trickled through to others. Mr. Bromley who had
always believed, believed more firmly than before, and sent tidings of his belief to Plum-cum-Pippins
and thence to Babington. Mr. Holt, the farmer, became more than ever energetic, and in a loud
voice at a Cambridge market ordinary, declared the ill-usage done to Caldigate and his young
wife. It had been said over and over again at the trial that Dick Shand's evidence was the
one thing wanted, and here was Dick Shand to give his evidence. Then the belief gained ground
in Cambridge; and with the belief there arose a feeling as to the egregious wrong which was
being done.

But the Boltons were still assured. None of them had as yet given any sign of yielding. Robert
Bolton knew very well that Shand was at Folking, but had not asked to see him. He and Mr. Seely
were on different sides, and could not discuss the matter; but their ideas were the same. It
was incredible to Robert that Dick Shand should appear just at this moment, unless as part
of an arranged plan. He could not read the whole plot; but was sure that there was a plot.
It was held in his mind as a certain fact, that John Caldigate would not have paid away that
large sum of money had he not thought that by doing so he was buying off Crinkett and the other
witnesses. Of course there had been a marriage in Australia, and therefore the arrival of Dick
Shand was to him only a lifting of the curtain for another act of the play. An attempt was
to be made to get Caldigate out of prison, which attempt it was his duty to oppose. Caldigate
had, he thought, deceived and inflicted a terrible stain on his family; and therefore Caldigate
was an enemy upon whom it behoved him to be revenged. This feeling was the stronger in his
bosom, because Caldigate had been brought into the family by him.

But when Dick Shand called upon him at his office, he would not deny himself. 'I have been
told by some people that, as I am here in the neighbourhood, I ought to come and speak to you,'
said Dick. The 'some people' had been, in the first instance, Mr. Ralph Holt, the farmer. But
Dick had discussed the matter with Mr. Bromley, and Mr. Bromley had thought that Shand's story
should be told direct to Hester's brother.

'If you have anything to say, Mr. Shand, I am ready to hear it.'

'All this about a marriage at Ahalala between John Caldigate and Mrs. Smith is a got-up plan,
Mr. Bolton.'

'The jury did not seem to think so, Mr. Shand.'

'I wasn't here then to let them know the truth.' Robert Bolton raised his eyebrows, marvelling
at the simplicity of the man who could fancy that his single word would be able to weigh down
the weight of evidence which had sufficed to persuade twelve men and such a judge as Judge
Bramber. 'I was with Caldigate all the time, and I'm sure of what I'm saying The two weren't
on speaking terms when they were said to be married.'

'Of course, Mr. Shand, as you have come to me, I will hear what you may have to say. But what
is the use of it? The man has been tried and found guilty.'

'They can let him out again if he's innocent.'

'The Queen can pardon him, no doubt;--but even the Queen cannot quash the conviction. The evidence
was as clear as noonday. The judge and the jury and the public were all in one mind.'

'But I wasn't here, then,' said Dick Shand, with perfect confidence. Robert Bolton could only
look at him and raise his eyebrows. He could not tell him to his face that no unprejudiced
person would believe the evidence of such a witness. 'He's your brother-in-law said Dick, 'and
I supposed you'd be glad to know that he was innocent.'

'I can't go into that question, Mr. Shand. As I believe him to have been guilty of as wicked
a crime as any man can well commit, I cannot concern myself in asking for a pardon for him.
My own impression is that he should have been sent to penal servitude.'

'By George!' exclaimed Dick. 'I tell you that it is all a lie from beginning to end.'

'I fear we cannot do any good by talking about it, Mr. Shand.'

'By George!' Dick hitched up his yellow trousers as though he were preparing for a fight. He
wore his yellow trousers without braces, and in all moments of energy hitched them up.

'If you please I will say good morning to you.'

'By George! when I tell you that I was there all the time, and that Caldigate never spoke to
the woman, or so much as saw her all that month, and that therefore your own sister is in honest
truth Caldigate's wife, you won't listen to me! Do you mean to say that I'm lying?'

'Mr. Shand, I must ask you to leave my office.'

'By George! I wish I had you, Mr. Bolton, out at Ahalala, where there are not quite so many
policemen as there are here at Cambridge.'

'I shall have to send for one of them if you don't go away, Mr. Shand.'

'Here's a man who, even for the sake of his own sister, won't hear the truth, just because
he hates his sister's husband! What have I got to get by lying?'

'That I cannot tell.' Bolton, as he said this, prepared himself for a sudden attack; but Shand
had sense enough to know that he would injure the cause in which he was interested, as well
as himself, by any exhibition of violence, and therefore left the office.

'No,' said Mr. Bromley, when all this was told him; 'he is not a cruel man, nor dishonest,
nor even untrue to his sister. But having quite made up his mind that Caldigate had been married
in Australia, he cannot release himself from the idea. And, as he thinks so, he feels it to
be his duty to keep his sister and Caldigate apart.'

'But why does he not believe me?' demanded Dick.

'In answer to that, I can only say that I do believe you.'

Then there came a request from Babington that Dick Shand would go over to them there for a
day. At Babington opinion was divided. Aunt Polly and her eldest daughter, and with them Mr.
Smirkie, still thought that John Caldigate was a wicked bigamist; but the Squire and the rest
of the family had gradually gone over to the other side. The Squire had never been hot against
the offender, having been one of those who fancied that a marriage at a very out-of-the-way
place such as Ahalala did not signify much. And now when he heard of Dick Shand's return and
proffered evidence, he declared that Dick Shand having been born a gentleman, though he had
been ever so much a sinner, and ever so much a drunkard, was entitled to credence before a
host of Crinketts. But with Aunt Polly and Julia there remained the sense of the old injury,
robbing Shand of all his attributes of birth, and endowing even Crinkett with truth. Then there
had been a few words, and the Squire had asserted himself, and insisted upon asking Shand to
Babington.

'Did you ever see such trousers?' said Julia to her mother. 'I would not believe him on his oath.'

'Certainly not,' said Mr. Smirkie, who of the three was by far the most vehement in his adherence
to the verdict. 'The man is a notorious drunkard. And he has that look of wildness which bad
characters always bring with them from the colonies.'

'He didn't drink anything but water at lunch,' said one of the younger girls.

'They never do when they're eating,' said Mr. Smirkie. For the great teetotal triumph had not
as yet been made known to the family at Babington. 'These regular drunkards take it at all
times by themselves in their own rooms. He has delirium tremens in his face. I don't believe
a word that he says.'

'He certainly does wear the oddest trousers I ever saw,' said Aunt Polly.

At the same time Dick himself was closeted with the Squire, and was convincing him that there
had been no Australian marriage at all. 'They didn't jump over a broomstick, or anything of
that kind?' asked the Squire, intending to be jocose.

'They did nothing at all,' said Dick, who had worked himself up to a state of great earnestness.
'Caldigate wouldn't as much as look at her at that time;--and then to come home here and find
him in prison because he had married her! How any one should have believed it!'

'They did believe it. The women here believe it now, as you perceive.'

'It's an awful shame, Mr. Babington. Think of her, Mr. Babington. It's harder on her even than
him, for he was,--well, fond of the woman once.'

'It is hard. But we must do what we can to get him out. I'll write to our member. Sir George
supports the Government, and I'll get him to see the Secretary. It is hard upon a young fellow
just when he has got married and come into a nice property.'

'And her, Mr. Babington!'

'Very bad, indeed. I'll see Sir George myself. The odd part of it is, the Boltons are all against
him. Old Bolton never quite liked the marriage, and his wife is a regular Tartar.'

Thus the Squire was gained, and the younger daughter. But Mr. Smirkie was as obdurate as ever.
Something of his ground was cut from under his feet when Dick's new and peculiar habits were
observed at dinner. Mr. Smirkie did indeed cling to his doctrine that your real drunkard never
drinks at his meals; but when Dick, on being pressed in regard to wine, apologised by saying
that he had become so used to tea in the colonies as not to be able to take anything else at
dinner, the peculiarity was discussed till he was driven to own that he had drank nothing stronger
for the last two years. Then it became plain that delirium tremens was not written on his face
quite so plainly as Mr. Smirkie had at first thought, and there was nothing left but his trousers
to condemn him. But Mr. Smirkie was still confident. 'I don't think you can go beyond the verdict,'
he said. 'There may be a pardon, of course;--though I shall never believe it till I see it.
But though there were twenty pardons she ought not to go back to him. The pardon does not alter
the crime,--and whether he was married in Australia, or whether he was not, she ought to think
that he was, because the jury has said so. If she had any feeling of feminine propriety she
would shut herself up and call herself Miss Bolton.'

'I don't agree with you in the least,' said the Squire; 'and I hope I may live to see a dozen
little Caldigates running about on that lawn.'

And there were a few words upstairs on the subject between Mr. Smirkie and his wife--for even
Mrs. Smirkie and Aunt Polly at last submitted themselves to Dick's energy. 'Indeed, then, if
he comes out,' said the wife, 'I shall be very glad to see him at Plum-cum-Pippins.' This was
said in a voice which did not admit of contradiction, and was evidence at any rate that Dick's
visit to Babington had been successful in spite of the yellow trousers.

Chapter LII

The Fortunes of Bagwax

An altogether new idea had occurred to Bagwax as he sat in his office after his interview with
Sir John Joram;--and it was an idea of such a nature that he thought that he saw his way quite
plain to a complete manifestation of the innocence of Caldigate, to a certainty of a pardon,
and to an immediate end of the whole complication. By a sudden glance at the evidence his eye
had caught an object which in all his glances he had never before observed. Then at once he
went to work, and finding that certain little marks were distinctly legible, he became on a
sudden violently hot,--so that the sweat broke out on his forehead. Here was the whole thing
disclosed at once,--disclosed to all the world if he chose to disclose it. But if he did so,
then there could not be any need for that journey to Sydney, which Sir John still thought to
be expedient. And this thing which he had now seen was not one within his own branch of work,--was
not a matter with which he was bound to be conversant. Somebody else ought to have found it
out. His own knowledge was purely accidental. There would be no disgrace to him in not finding
it out. But he had found it out.

Bagwax was a man who, in his official zeal and official capacity, had exercised his intellect
far beyond the matters to which he was bound to apply himself in the mere performance of his
duties. Post-marks were his business; and had he given all his mind to postmarks, he would
have sufficiently carried out that great doctrine of doing the duty which England expects from
every man. But he had travelled beyond postmarks, and had looked into many things. Among other
matters he had looked into penny stamps, twopenny stamps, and other stamps. In post-office
phraseology there is sometimes a confusion because the affixed effigy of her Majesty's head,
which represents the postage paid, is called a stamp, and the postmarks or impressions indicating
the names of towns are also called stamps. Those postmarks or impressions had been the work
of Bagwax's life; but his zeal, his joy in his office, and the general energy of his disposition,
had opened up to him also all the mysteries of the queen's heads. That stamp, that effigy,
that twopenny queen's-head, which by its presence on the corner of the envelope purported to
have been the price of conveying the letter from Sydney to Nobble, on 10th May, 1873, had certainly
been manufactured and sent out to the colony since that date!

There are signs invisible to ordinary eyes which are plain as the sun at noonday to the initiated.
It is so in all arts, in all sciences. Bagwax was at once sure of his fact. To his instructed
gaze the little receipt for twopence was as clearly dated as though the figures were written
on it. And yet he had never looked at it before. In the absorbing interest which the postmark
had created,--that fraudulent postmark as it certainly was,--he had never condescended to examine
the postage-stamp. But now he saw and was certain.

If it was so,--and he had no doubt,--then would Caldigate surely be released. It is hoped that
the reader will follow the mind of Bagwax, which was in this matter very clear. This envelope
had been brought up at the trial as evidence that, on a certain day, Caldigate had written
to the woman as his wife, and had sent the letter through the post-office. For such sending
the postage-stamp was necessary. The postage-stamp had certainly been put on when the envelope
was prepared for its intended purpose. But if it could be proved by the stamp itself that it
had not been in existence on the date impressed on the envelope, then the fraud would be quite
apparent. And if there had been such fraud, then would the testimony of all those four witnesses
be crushed into arrant perjury. They had produced the fraudulent document, and by it would
be thoroughly condemned. There could be no necessity for a journey to Sydney.

As it all became clear to his mind, he thumped his table partly in triumph,--partly in despair.
'What's the matter with you now?' said Mr. Curlydown. It was a quarter past four, and Curlydown
had not completed his daily inspections. Had Bagwax been doing his proper share of work, Curlydown
would have already washed his hands and changed his coat, and have been ready to start for
the 4.30 train. As it was, he had an hour of labour before him, and would be unable to count
the plums upon his wall, as was usual with him before dinner.

'It becomes more wonderful every day,' said Bagwax solemnly,--almost awfully.

'It is very wonderful to me that a man should be able to sit so many hours looking at one dirty
bit of paper.'

'Every moment that I pass with that envelope before my eyes I see the innocent husband in jail,
and the poor afflicted wife weeping in her solitude.'

'You'll be going on to the stage, Bagwax, before this is done.'

'I have sometimes thought that it was the career for which I was best adapted. But, as to the
envelope, the facts are now certain.'

'Any new facts?' asked Curlydown. But he asked the question in a jeering tone, not at all as
though desiring confidence or offering sympathy.

'Yes,' replied Bagwax, slowly. 'The facts are certainly new,--and most convincing; but as you
have not given attention to the particular branch concerned there can be no good in my mentioning
them. You would not understand me.' It was thus that he revenged himself on Curlydown. Then
there was again silence between them for a quarter of an hour, during which Curlydown was hurrying
through his work, and Bagwax was meditating whether it was certainly his duty to make known
the facts as to the postage-stamp. 'You are so unkind,' said Bagwax at last, in a tone of injured
friendship, burning to tell his new discovery.

'You have got it all your way,' said Curlydown, without lifting his head. 'And then, as you
said just now,--I don't understand.'

'I'd tell you everything if you'd only be a little less hard.'

Curlydown was envious. He had, of course, been told of the civil things which Sir John Joram
had said; and though he did not quite believe all, he was convinced that Bagwax was supposed
to have distinguished himself. If there was anything to be known he would like to know it.
Nor was he naturally quarrelsome. Bagwax was his old friend. 'I don't mean to be hard,' he
said. 'Of course one does feel oneself fretted when one has been obliged to miss two trains.'

'Can I lend a hand?' said Bagwax.

'It doesn't signify now. I can't catch anything before the 5.20. One does expect to get away
a little earlier than that on a Saturday. What is it that you've found out?'

'Do you really care to know?'

'Of course I do,--if it's anything in earnest. I took quite as much interest as you in the
matter when we were down at Cambridge.'

'You see that postage-stamp?' Bagwax stretched out the envelope,--or rather the photograph
of the envelope, for it was no more. But the Queen's head, with all its obliterating smudges,
and all its marks and peculiarities, were to be seen quite as plainly as on the original, which
was tied up carefully among the archives of the trial. 'You see that postage-stamp?' Curlydown
took his glass, and looked at the document, and declared that he saw the postage-stamp very
plainly.

'But it does not tell you anything particular?'

'Nothing very particular--at the first glance,' said Curlydown, gazing through the glass with
all his eyes.

'Look again.'

'I see that they obliterate out there with a kind of star.'

'That has nothing to do with it.'

'The bunch of hair at the back of the head isn't quite like our bunch of hair.'

'Just the same;--taken from the same die,' said Bagwax.

'The little holes for dividing the stamps are bigger.'

'It isn't that.'

'Then what the d---- is it?'

'There are letters at every corner,' said Bagwax.

'That's of course,' said Curlydown.

'Can you read those letters?' Curlydown owned that he never had quite understood what those
letters meant. 'Those two P's in the two bottom corners tell me that that stamp wasn't printed
before '74. It was all explained to me not long ago. Now the postmark is dated '73.' There
was an air of triumph about Bagwax as he said this which almost drove Curlydown back to hostility.
But he checked himself merely shaking his head, and continued to look at the stamp. 'What do
you think of that?' asked Bagwax.

'You'd have to prove it.'

'Of course I should. But the stamps are made here and are sent out to the colony. I shall see
Smithers at the stamp-office on Monday of course.' Mr. Smithers was a gentleman concerned in
the manufacture of stamps. 'But I know my facts. I am as well aware of the meaning of those
letters as though I had made postage-stamps my own peculiar duty. Now what ought I to do?'

'You wouldn't have to go, I suppose?'

'Not a foot.'

'And yet it ought to be found out how that date got there.' And Curlydown put his finger upon
the impression--10th May, 1873.

'Not a doubt about it. I should do a deal of good by going if they'd give me proper authority
to overhaul everything in the office out there. They had the letter stamped fraudulently;--fraudulently,
Mr. Curlydown! Perhaps if I stayed at home to give evidence, they'd send you to Sydney to find
all that out.'

There was a courtesy in this suggestion which induced Curlydown to ask his junior to come down
and take pot-luck at Apricot Villa. Bagwax was delighted, for his heart had been sore at the
coolness which had grown up between him and the man under whose wing he had worked for so many
years. He had been devoted to Curlydown till growing ambition had taught him to think himself
able to strike out a line for himself. Mr. Curlydown had two daughters, of whom the younger,
Jemima, had found much favour in the eyes of Bagwax. But since the jealousy had sprung up between
the two men he had never seen Jemima, nor tasted the fruits of Curlydown's garden. Mrs. Curlydown,
who approved of Bagwax, had been angry, and Jemima herself had become sullen and unloving to
her father. On that very morning Mrs. Curlydown had declared that she hated quarrels like poison.
'So do I, mamma,' said Jemima, breaking her silence emphatically. 'Not that Mr. Bagwax is anything
to anybody.'

'That does look like something,' said Curlydown, whispering to his friend in the railway carriage.
They were sitting opposite to each other, with their knees together,--and were of course discussing
the envelope.

'It is everything. When they were making up their case in Australia, and when the woman brought
out the cover with his writing upon it, with the very name, Mrs. Caldigate, written by himself,--Crinkett
wasn't contented with that. So they put their heads together, and said that if the letter could
be got to look like a posted letter,--a letter sent regularly by the post,--that would be real
evidence. The idea wasn't bad.'

'Nothing has ever been considered better evidence than postmarks,' said Curlydown, with authority.

'It was a good idea. Then they had to get a postage-stamp. They little knew how they might
put their foot into it there. And they got hold of some young man at the post-office who knew
how to fix a date-stamp with a past date. How these things become clear when one looks at them
long enough!'

'Only one has to have an eye in one's head.'

'Yes,' said Bagwax, as modestly as he could at such a moment. 'A fellow has to have his wits
about him before he can do anything out of the common way in any line. You'd tell Sir John
everything at once;--wouldn't you?' Curlydown raised his hat and scratched his head. 'Duty
first, you know. Duty first,' said Bagwax.

'In a man's own line,--yes,' said Curlydown. 'Somebody else ought to have found that out. That's
not post-office. It's stamps and taxes. It's very hard that a man should have to cut the nose
off his own face by knowing more than he need know.'

'Duty! Duty!' said Bagwax as he opened the carriage-door and jumped out on to the platform.

When he got up to the cottage, Mrs. Curlydovvn assured him that it was quite a cure for sore
eyes to see him. Sophia, the elder of the two daughters at home, told him that he was a false
truant; and Jemima surmised that the great attractions of the London season had prevented him
from coming down to Enfield. 'It isn't that, indeed,' he said. 'I am always delighted in running
down. But the Caldigate affair has been so important!'

'You mean the trial,' said Mrs. Curlydown. 'But the man has been in prison ever so long.'

'Unjustly! Most unjustly!'

'Is it so, really?' asked Jemima. 'And the poor young bride?'

'Not so much of a bride,' said Sophia. 'She's got one, I know.'

'And papa says you're to go out to Botany Bay,' said Jemima. 'It'll be years and years before
you are back again.' Then he explained it was not Botany Bay, and he would be back in six months.
And, after all, he wasn't going at all. 'Well, I declare, if papa isn't down the walk already,'
said Jemima, looking out of the window.

'I don't think I shall go at all,' said Bagwax in a melancholy tone as he went up-stairs to
wash his hands.

The dinner was very pleasant; and as Curlydown and his guest drank their bottle of port together
at the open window, it was definitely settled that Bagwax should reveal the mystery of the
postage-stamp to Sir John Joram at once. 'I should have it like a lump of lead on my conscience
all the time I was on the deep,' said Bagwax, solemnly.

'Conscience is conscience, to be sure,' said Curlydown

'I don't think that I'm given to be afraid,' said Bagwax. 'The ocean, if I know myself, would
have no terrors for me;--not if I was doing my duty. But I should hear the ship's sides cracking
with every blast if that secret were lodged within my breast.'

'Take another glass of port, old boy.'

Bagwax did take another glass, finishing the bottle, and continued. 'Farewell to those smiling
shores. Farewell, Sydney, and all her charms. Farewell to her orange groves, her blue mountains,
and her rich gold-fields.'

'Take a drop of whitewash to wind up, and then we'll join the ladies.' Curlydown was a strictly
hospitable man, and in his own house would not appear to take amiss anything his guest might
say. But when Bagwax became too poetical over his wine, Curlydown waxed impatient. Bagwax took
his drop of whitewash, and then hurried on to the lawn to join Jemima.

'And you really are not going to those distant parts?'

'No,' said Bagwax, with all that melancholy which wine and love combined with sorrow can produce.
'That dream is over.'

'I am so glad.'

'Why should you be glad? Why should a resolve which it almost breaks my heart to make be a
source of joy to you?'

'Of course you would have nothing to regret at leaving, Mr. Bagwax.'

'Very much,--if I were going for ever. No;--I could never do that, unless I were to take some
dear one with me. But, as I said, that dream is over. It has ever been my desire to see foreign
climes, and the chance so seldom comes in a man's way.'

'You've been to Ostend, I know, Mr. Bagwax.'

'Oh yes, and to Boulogne,' said Bagwax, proudly. 'But the desire of travel grows with the thing
it feeds on. I long to overcome great distances,--to feel that I have put illimitable space
behind me. To set my foot on shores divided from these by the thickness of all the earth would
give me a sense of grandeur which I--which,--which,--would be magnificent.'

'I suppose that is natural in a man.'

'In some men,' said Bagwax, not liking to be told that his heroic instincts were shared by
all his brethren.

'But women, of course, think of the dangers. Suppose you were to be cast away!'

'What matter? With a father of a family of course it would be different. But a lone man should
never think of such things.' Jemima shook her head and walked silently by his side. 'If I had
some dear one who cared for me I suppose it would be different with me.'

'I don't know,' said Jemima. 'Gentlemen like to amuse themselves sometimes, but it doesn't
often go very deep.'

'Things always go deep with me,' said Bagwax. 'I panted for that journey to the Antipodes;--panted
for it! Now that it is over, perhaps some day I may tell you under what circumstances it has
been relinquished. In the meantime my mind passes to other things; or perhaps I should say
my heart--Jemima!' Then Bagwax stopped on the path.

'Go on, Mr. Bagwax. Papa will be looking at you.'

'Jemima,' he said, 'will you recompense me by your love for what I have lost on the other side
of the globe?' She recompensed him, and he was happy.

The future father and son-in-law sat and discussed their joint affairs for an hour after the
ladies had retired. As to Jemima and his love, Bagwax was allowed to be altogether triumphant.
Mrs. Curlydown kissed him, and he kissed Sophia. That was in public. What passed between him
and Jemima no human eye saw. The old post-office clerk took the younger one to his heart, and
declared that he was perfectly satisfied with his girl's choice. 'I've always known that you
were steady,' he said, 'and that's what I look to. She has had her admirers, and perhaps might
have looked higher; but what's rank or money if a man's fond of pleasure?' But when that was
settled they returned again to the Caldigate envelope. Curlydown was not quite so sure as to
that question of duty. The proposed journey to Sydney, with a pound a-day allowed for expenses,
and the traveller's salary going on all the time, would put a nice sum of ready-money into
Bagwax's pocket. 'It wouldn't be less than two hundred towards furnishing my boy,' said Curlydown.
'You'll want it. And as for the delay, what's six months? Girls like to have a little time
to boast about it.'

But Bagwax had made up his mind, and nothing would shake him. 'If they'll let me go out all
the same, to set matters right, of course I'd take the job. I should think it a duty, and would
bear the delay as well as I could. If Jemima thought it right I'm sure she wouldn't complain.
But since I saw that letter on that stamp my conscience has told me that I must reveal it all.
It might be me as was in prison, and Jemima who was told that I had a wife in Australia. Since
I've looked at it in that light I've been more determined than ever to go to Sir John Joram's
chambers on Monday. Good-night, Mr. Curlydown. I am very glad you asked me down to the cottage
to-day; more glad than anything.'

At half-past eleven, by the last train, Bagwax returned to town, and spent the night with mingled
dreams, in which Sydney, Jemima, and the envelope were all in their turns eluding him, and
all in their turns within his grasp.

Chapter LIII

Sir John Backs His Opinion

Well, Mr. Bagwax, I'm glad that it's only one envelope this time.' This was said by Sir John
Joram to the honest and energetic post-office clerk on the morning of Wednesday the 3d September,
when the lawyer would have been among the partridges down in Suffolk but for the vicissitudes
of John Caldigate's case. It was hard upon Sir John, and went something against the grain with
him. He was past the time of life at which men are enthusiastic as to the wrongs of others,--as
was Bagwax; and had, in truth, much less to gain from the cause, or to expect, than Bagwax.
He thought that the pertinacity of Bagwax, and the coming of Dick Shand at the moment of his
holidays, were circumstances which justified the use of a little internal strong language,--such
as he had occasionally used externally before he had become attorney-general. In fact he had--damned
Dick Shand and Bagwax, and in doing so had considered that Jones his clerk was internal. 'I
wish he had gone to Sydney a month ago,' he said to Jones. But when Jones suggested that Bagwax
might be sent to Sydney without further trouble, Sir John's conscience pricked him. Not to
be able to shoot a Suffolk partridge on the 1st of September was very cruel, but to be detained
wrongfully in Cambridge jail was worse; and he was of opinion that such cruelty had been inflicted
on Caldigate. On the Saturday Dick Shand had been with him. He had remained in town on the
Monday and Tuesday by agreement with Mr. Seely. Early on the Tuesday intimation was given to
him that Bagwax would come on the Wednesday with further evidence,--with evidence which should
be positively conclusive. Bagwax had, in the meantime, been with his friend Smithers at the
stamp-office, and was now fully prepared. By the help of Smithers he had arrived at the fact
that the postage-stamp had certainly been fabricated in 1874, some months after the date imprinted
on the cover of the letter to which it was affixed.

'No, Sir John;--only one this time. We needn't move anything.' All the chaos had been restored
to its normal place, and looked as though it had never been moved since it was collected.

'And we can prove that this queen's-head did not exist before the 1st January, 1874.'

'Here's the deposition,' said Bagwax, who, by his frequent intercourse with Mr. Jones, had
become almost as good as a lawyer himself,--'at least, it isn't a deposition, of course,--because
it's not sworn.'

'A statement of what can be proved on oath.'

'Just that, Sir John. It's Mr. Smithers! Mr. Smithers has been at the work for the last twenty
years. I knew it just as well as he from the first, because I attend to these sort of things;
but I thought it best to go to the fountain-head.'

'Quite right.'

'Sir John will want to hear it from the fountain-head I said to myself; and therefore I went
to Smithers. Smithers is perhaps a little conceited, but his word is--gospel. In a matter of
postage-stamps Smithers is gospel.'

Then Sir John read the statement; and though he may not have taken it for gospel, still to
him it was credible. 'It seems clear,' he said.

'Clear as the running stream,' said Bagwax.

'I should like to have all that gang up for perjury, Mr. Bagwax.'

'So should I, Sir John;--so should I. When I think of that poor dear lady and her infant babe
without a name, and that young father torn from his paternal acres and cast into a vile prison,
my blood boils within my veins, and all my passion to see foreign climes fades into the distance.'

'No foreign climes now, Mr. Bagwax.'

'I suppose not, Sir John,' said the hero, mournfully

'Not if this be true.'

'It's gospel, Sir John;--gospel. They might send me out to set that office to rights. Things
must be very wrong when they could get hold of a date-stamp and use it in that way. There must
be one of the gang in the office.'

'A bribe did it, I should say.'

'I could find it out, Sir John. Let me alone for that. You could say that you have found me--quick-like
in this matter;--couldn't you, Sir John?' Bagwax was truly happy in the love of Jemima Curlydown;
but the idea of earning two hundred pounds for furniture, and of seeing distant climes at the
same time, had taken a strong hold of his imagination.

'I am afraid I should have no voice in the matter,--unless with the view of getting evidence.'

'And we've got that;--haven't we, Sir John?'

'I think so.'

'Duty, Sir John, duty!' said Bagwax, almost sobbing through his triumph.

'That's it, Mr. Bagwax.' Sir John too had given up his partridges,--for a day or two.

'And that gentleman will now be restored to his wife?'

'It isn't for me to say. As you and I have been engaged on the same side----' To be told that
he had been on the same side with the late attorney-general was almost compensation to Bagwax
for the loss of his journey. 'As you and I have been on the same side, I don't mind telling
you that I think that he ought to be released. The matter remains with the Secretary of State,
who will probably be guided by the judge who tried the case.'

'A stern man, Sir John.'

'Not soft-hearted, Mr. Bagwax,--but as conscientious a man as you'll be able to put your hand
upon. The young wife with her nameless baby won't move him at all. But were he moved by such
consideration he would be so far unfit for his office.'

'Mercy is divine,' said Bagwax.

'And therefore unfit to be used by a merely human judge. You know, I suppose, that Richard
Shand has come home?'

'No!'

'Indeed he has, and was with me a day or two since.'

'Can he say anything?' Bagwax was not rejoiced at Dick's opportune return. He thoroughly wished
that Caldigate should be liberated, but he wished himself to monopolise the glory of the work.

'He says a great deal. He has sworn point-blank that there was no such marriage at the time
named. He and Caldigate were living together then, and for some weeks afterwards, and the woman
was never near them during the time.'

'To think of his coming just now!'

'It will be a great help, Mr. Bagwax; but it wouldn't be enough alone. He might possibly--tell
an untruth.'

'Perjury on the other side, as it were.'

'Just that. But this little queen's-head here can't be untrue.'

'No, Sir John, no; that can't be,' said Bagwax, comforted; 'and the dated impression can't
lie either. The envelope is what'll do it after all.'

'I hope so. You and Mr. Jones will prepare the statement for the Secretary of State, and I
will send it myself.' With that Mr. Bagwax took his leave, and remained closeted with Mr. Jones
for much of the remainder of the day.

The moment Sir John was alone he wrote an almost angry note to his friend Honybun, in conjunction
with whom and another Member of Parliament he had the shooting in Suffolk. Honybun, who was
also a lawyer, though less successful than his friend, was a much better shot, and was already
taking the cream off the milk of the shooting. 'I cannot conceive,' he said at the end of his
letter, 'that, after all my experience, I should have put myself so much out of my way to serve
a client. A man should do what he's paid to do, and what it is presumed that he will do, and
nothing more. But here I have been instigated by an insane ambition to emulate the good-natured
zeal of a fellow who is absolutely willing to sacrifice himself for the good of a stranger.'
Then he went on to say that he could not leave London till the Friday.

On the Thursday morning he put all the details together, and himself drew out a paper for the
perusal of the Secretary of State. As he looked at the matter all round, it seemed to him that
the question was so clear that even Judge Bramber could not hesitate. The evidence of Dick
Shand was quite conclusive,--if credible. It was open, of course, to strong doubt, in that
it could not be sifted by cross-examination. Alone, it certainly would not have sufficed to
extort a pardon from any Secretary of State,--as any Secretary of State would have been alive
to the fact that Dick might have been suborned. Dick's life had not been such that his single
word would have been regarded as certainly true. But in corroboration it was worth much. And
then if the Secretary or the judge could be got to go into that very complicated question of
the dated stamp, it would, Sir John thought, become evident to him that the impression had
not been made at the time indicated. This had gradually been borne in upon Sir John's mind,
till he was almost as confident in his facts as Bagwax himself. But this operation had required
much time and much attention. Would the Secretary, or would the judge, clear his table, and
give himself time to inspect and to measure two or three hundred postmarks? The date of the
fabrication of the postage-stamp would of course require to be verified by official report;--but
if the facts as stated by Bagwax were thus confirmed, then the fraudulent nature of the envelope
would be put beyond doubt. It would be so manifest that this morsel of evidence had been falsely
concocted, that no clear-headed man, let his prepossessions be what they might, could doubt
it. Judge Bramber would no doubt begin to sift the case with a strong bias in favour of the
jury. It was for a jury to ascertain the facts; and in this case the jury had done so. In his
opinion,--in Judge Bramber's opinion, as the judge had often declared it,--a judge should not
be required to determine facts. A new trial, were that possible, would be the proper remedy,
if remedy were wanted; but as that was impossible, he would be driven to investigate such new
evidence as was brought before him, and to pronounce what would, in truth, be another verdict.
All this was clear to Sir John; and he told himself that even Judge Bramber would not be able
to deny that false evidence had been submitted to the jury.

Sir John, as he occupied his mind with the matter on the Thursday morning, did wake himself
up to some generous energy on his client's behalf,--so that in sending the written statements
of the case to the Home Secretary, he himself wrote a short but strongly-worded note. 'As it
is quite manifest,' he said, 'that a certain amount of false and fraudulent circumstantial
evidence has been brought into court by the witnesses who proved the alleged marriage, and
as direct evidence has now come to hand on the other side which is very clear, and as far as
we know trustworthy, I feel myself justified in demanding her Majesty's pardon for my client.'

On the next day he went down to Birdseye Lodge, near Ipswich, and was quite enthusiastic on
the matter with his friend Honybun. 'I never knew Bramber go beyond a jury in my life,' said
Honybun.

'He'll have to do it now. They can't keep him in prison when they find that the chief witness
was manifestly perjured. The woman swore on her oath that the letter reached her by post in
May, 1873. It certainly did not do so. The cover, as we see it, has been fabricated since that
date.'

'I never thought the cover went for much,' said Honybun.

'For very little,--for nothing at all perhaps,--till proved to be fraudulent. If they had left
the letter alone their case would have been strong enough for a conviction. As it was, they
were fools enough to go into a business of this sort; but they have done so, and as they have
been found out, the falsehood which has been detected covers every word of their spoken evidence
with suspicion. It will be like losing so much of his heart's blood, but the old fellow will
have to give way.'

'He never gave way in his life.'

'We'll make him begin.'

'I'll bet you a pony he don't.'

'I'll take the bet,' said the late Attorney-General. But as he did so he looked round to see
that not even a gamekeeper was near enough to hear him.

On that Friday Bagwax was in a very melancholy state of mind at his office, in spite of the
brilliancy of his prospects with Miss Curlydown. 'I'll just come back to my old work,' he said
to his future father-in-law. 'There's nothing else for me to do.'

This was all as it should be, and would have been regarded a day or two ago by Curlydown as
simple justice. There had been quite enough of that pottering over an old envelope, to the
manifest inconvenience of himself and others. But now the matter was altered. His was a paternal
and an affectionate heart, and he saw very plainly the pecuniary advantage of a journey to
Sydney. And he knew too that, in official life as well as elsewhere, to those who have much,
more is given. Now that Bagwax was to him in the light of a son, he wished Bagwax to rise in
the world. 'I wouldn't give it up,' said he.

'But what would you do?'

'I'd stick to it like wax till they did something for me.'

'There's nothing to stick to.'

'I'd take it for granted I was going at once to Sydney. I'd get my outfit, and, by George!
I'd take my place.'

'I've told Sir John I wasn't going; and he said it wasn't necessary.' As Bagwax told his sad
tale he almost wept.

'I wouldn't mind that. I'd have it out of them somehow. Why is he to have all the pay? No doubt
it's been hundreds to him; and you've done the work and got nothing.'

'When I asked him to get me sent, he said he'd no power;--not now it's all so plain.' He turned
his face down towards the desk to hide the tear that now was, in truth, running down his face.
'But duty!' he said, looking up again. 'Duty! England expects----. D--n it, who's going to
whimper? When I lay my head on my pillow at night and think that I, I, Thomas Bagwax, have
restored that nameless one to her babe and her lord, I shall sleep even though that pillow
be no better than a hard bolster.'

'Jemima will look after that,' said the father, laughing. 'But still I wouldn't give it up.
Never give a chance up,--they come so seldom. I'll tell you what I should do;--I should apply
to the Secretary for leave to go to Sydney at once.'

'At my own expense?' said Bagwax, horrified.

'Certainly not;--but that you might have an opportunity of investigating all this for the public
service. It'll get referred round in some way to the Secretary of State, who can't but say
all that you've done. When it gets out of a man's own office he don't so much mind doing a
little job. It sounds good-natured. And then if they don't do anything for you, you'll get
a grievance. Next to a sum of money down, a grievance is the best thing you can have. A man
who can stick to a grievance year after year will always make money of it at last.'

On the Saturday, Bagwax went down to Apricot Lodge, having been invited to stay with his beloved
till the Monday. In the smiles of his beloved he did find much consolation, especially as it
had already been assured to him that sixty pounds a-year would be settled on Jemima on and
from her wedding-day. And then they made very much of him. 'You do love me, Tom; don't you?'
said Jemima. They were sitting on camp-stools behind the grotto, and Bagwax answered by pressing
the loved one's waist. 'Better than going to Sydney, Tom,--don't you?'

'It is so very different,' said Bagwax,--which was true.

'If you don't like me better than anything else in all the world, however different, I will
never stand at the altar with you.' And she moved her camp-stool perhaps an inch away.

'In the way of loving, of course I do.'

'Then why do you grieve when you've got what you like best?'

'You don't understand, Jemima, what a spirit of adventure means.'

'I think I do, or I shouldn't be going to marry you. That's quite as great an adventure as
a journey to Sydney. You ought to be very glad to get off, now you're going to settle down
as a married man.'

'Think what two hundred pounds would be, Jemima;--in the way of furniture.'

'That's papa's putting in, I know. I hate all that hankering after filthy lucre. You ought
to be ashamed of wanting to go so far away just when you're engaged You wouldn't care about
leaving me, I suppose the least.'

'I should always be thinking of you.'

'Yes, you would! But suppose I wasn't thinking of you. Suppose I took to thinking of somebody
else. How would it be then?'

'You wouldn't do that, Jemima.'

'You ought to know when you're well off, Tom.' By this time he had recovered the inch and perhaps
a little more. 'You ought to feel that you've plenty to console you.'

'So I do. Duty! duty! England expects that every man----'

'That's your idea of consolation, is it?' And away went the camp-stool half a yard.

'You believe in duty, don't you, Jemima?'

'In a husband's duty to his wife, I do;--and in a young man's duty to his sweetheart.'

'And in a father's to his children.'

'That's as may be,' said she, getting up and walking away into the kitchen-garden. He of course
accompanied her, and before they got to the house had promised her not to sigh for the delights
of Sydney, nor for the perils of adventure any more.

Chapter LIV

Judge Bramber

A secretary of State who has to look after the police and the magistrates, to answer questions
in the House of Commons, and occasionally to make a telling speech in defence of his colleagues,
and, in addition to this, is expected to perform the duties of a practical court of appeal
in criminal cases, must have something to do. To have to decide whether or no some poor wretch
shall be hanged, when, in spite of the clearest evidence, humanitarian petitions by the dozen
overwhelm him with claims for mercy, must be a terrible responsibility. 'No, your Majesty,
I think we won't hang him. I think we'll send him to penal servitude for life;--if your Majesty
pleases.' That is so easy, and would be so pleasant. Why should any one grumble at so right
royal a decision? But there are the newspapers, always so prone to complain;--and the Secretary
has to acknowledge that he must be strong enough to hang his culprits in spite of petitions,
or else he must give up that office. But when the evidence is not clear, the case is twice
more difficult. The jury have found their verdict, and the law intends that the verdict of
a jury shall be conclusive. When a man has been declared to be guilty by twelve of his countrymen,--he
is guilty, let the facts have been what they may, and let the twelve have been ever so much
in error. Majesty, however, can pardon guilt, and hence arises some awkward remedy for the
mistakes of jurymen. But an unassisted Majesty cannot itself investigate all things,--is not,
in fact, in this country supposed to perform any duties of that sort,--a Secretary of State
is invested with the privilege of what is called mercy. It is justice rather that is wanted.
If Bagwax were in the right about that envelope,--and the reader will by this time think that
he was right; and if Dick Shand had sworn truly, then certainly our friend John Caldigate was
not in want of mercy. It was instant justice that he required,--with such compensation as might
come to him from the indignant sympathy of all good men.

I remember to have seen a man at Bermuda whose fate was peculiar. He was sleek, fat, and apparently
comfortable, mixing pills when I saw him, he himself a convict and administering to the wants
of his brother convicts. He remonstrated with me on the hardness of his position. 'Either I
did do it, or I didn't,' he said. 'It was because they thought I didn't that they sent me here.
And if I didn't, what right had they to keep me here at all?' I passed on in silence, not daring
to argue the matter with the man in face of the warder. But the man was right. He had murdered
his wife;--so at least the jury had said,--and had been sentenced to be hanged. He had taken
the poor woman into a little island, and while she was bathing had drowned her. Her screams
had been heard on the mainland, and the jury had found the evidence sufficient. Some newspaper
had thought the reverse, and had mooted the question;--was not the distance too great for such
screams to have been heard, or, at any rate, understood? So the man was again brought to trial
in the Court of the Home Office, and was,--not pardoned, but sent to grow fat and make pills
at Bermuda. He had, or he had not, murdered his wife. If he did the deed he should have been
hanged;--and if not, he should not have been forced to make extorted pills.

What was a Secretary of State to do in such a case? No doubt he believed that the wretch had
murdered his wife. No doubt the judge believed it. All the world believed it. But the newspaper
was probably right in saying that the evidence was hardly conclusive,--probably right because
it produced its desired effect. If the argument had been successfully used with the jury, the
jury would have acquitted the man. Then surely the Secretary of State should have sent him
out as though acquitted; and, not daring to hang him, should have treated him as innocent.
Another trial was, in truth, demanded.

And so it was in Caldigate's case. The Secretary of State, getting up early in the morning
after a remarkable speech, in which he vindicated his Ministry from the attacks of all Europe,
did read all the papers, and took home to himself the great Bagwaxian theory. He mastered Dick's
evidence;--and managed to master something also as to Dick's character. He quite understood
the argument as to the postage-stamps,--which went further with him than the other arguments.
And he understood the perplexity of his own position. If Bagwax was right, not a moment should
be lost in releasing the ill-used man. To think of pardon, to mention pardon, would be an insult.
Instant justice, with infinite regrets that the injuries inflicted admitted of no compensation,--that
and that only, was impressively demanded. How grossly would that man have been ill-used!--how
cruelly would that woman have been injured! But then, again,--if Bagwax was wrong;--if the
cunning fraud had been concocted over here and not in Sydney;--if the plot had been made, not
to incarcerate an innocent man, but to liberate a guilty man, then how unfit would he show
himself for his position were he to be taken in by such guile! What crime could be worse than
that committed by Caldigate against the young lady he had betrayed, if Caldigate were guilty?
Upon the whole, he thought it would be safer to trust to the jury; but comforted himself by
the reflection that he could for a while transfer the responsibility. It would perhaps be expedient
to transfer it altogether. So he sent all the papers on to Judge Bramber.

Judge Bramber was a great man. Never popular, he had been wise enough to disregard popularity.
He had forced himself into practice, in opposition to the attorneys, by industry and perspicuity.
He had attended exclusively to his profession, never having attempted to set his foot on the
quicker stepping-stones of political life. It was said of him that no one knew whether he called
himself Liberal or Conservative At fifty-five he was put upon the bench, simply because he
was supposed to possess a judicial mind. Here he amply justified that opinion,--but not without
the sneer and ill-words of many. He was now seventy, and it was declared that years had had
no effect on him. He was supposed to be absolutely merciless,--as hard as a nether millstone,
a judge who could put on the black cap without a feeling of inward disgust. But it may be surmised
that they who said so knew nothing of him,--for he was a man not apt to betray the secrets
of his inner life. He was noted for his reverence for a jury, and for his silence on the bench.
The older he grew the shorter became his charges; nor were there wanting those who declared
that his conduct in this respect was intended as a reproach to some who are desirous of adorning
the bench by their eloquence. To sit there listening to everything, and subordinating himself
to others till his interposition was necessary, was his idea of a judge's duty. But when the
law had declared itself, he was always strong in supporting the law. A man condemned for murder
ought to be hanged,--so thought Judge Bramber,--and not released, in accordance with the phantasy
of philanthropists. Such were the requirements of the law. If the law were cruel, let the legislators
look to that. He was once heard to confess that the position of a judge who had condemned an
innocent man might be hard to bear; but, he added, that a country would be unfortunate which
did not possess judges capable of bearing even that sorrow. In his heart he disapproved of
the attribute of mercy as belonging to the Crown. It was opposed to his idea of English law,
and apt to do harm rather than good.

He had been quite convinced of Caldigate's guilt,--not only by the direct evidence, but by
the concurrent circumstances. To his thinking, it was not in human nature that a man should
pay such a sum as twenty thousand pounds to such people as Crinkett and Euphemia Smith,--a
sum of money which was not due either legally or morally,--except with an improper object.
I have said that he was a great man; but he did not rise to any appreciation of the motives
which had unquestionably operated with Caldigate. Had Caldigate been quite assured, when he
paid the money, that his enemies would remain and bear witness against him, still he would
have paid it. In that matter he had endeavoured to act as he would have acted had the circumstances
of the mining transaction been made known to him when no threat was hanging over his head.
But all that Judge Bramber did not understand. He understood, however, quite clearly, that
under no circumstances should money have been paid by an accused person to witnesses while
that person's guilt and innocence were in question. In his summing-up he had simply told the
jury to consider the matter;--but he had so spoken the word as to make the jury fully perceive
what had been the result of his own consideration.

And then Caldigate and the woman had lived together, and a distinct and repeated promise of
marriage had been acknowledged. It was acknowledged that the man had given his name to the
woman, so far as himself to write it. Whatever might be the facts as to the postmark and postage-stamp,
the words 'Mrs. Caldigate' had been written by the man now in prison.

Four persons had given direct evidence; and in opposition to them there had been nothing. Till
Dick Shand had come, no voice had been brought forward to throw even a doubt upon the marriage.
That two false witnesses should adhere well together in a story was uncommon; that three should
do so, most rare; with four it would be almost a miracle. But these four had adhered. They
were people, probably of bad character,--whose lives had perhaps been lawless. But if so, it
would have been so much easier to prove them false if they were false. Thus Judge Bramber,
when he passed sentence on Caldigate had not in the least doubted that the verdict was a true
verdict.

And now the case was sent to him for reconsideration. He hated such reconsiderations. He first
read Sir John Joram's letter, and declared to himself that it was unfit to have come from any
one calling himself a lawyer. There was an enthusiasm about it altogether beneath a great advocate,--certainly
beneath any forensic advocate employed otherwise than in addressing a jury. He, Judge Bramber,
had never himself talked of 'demanding' a verdict even from a jury. He had only endeavoured
to win it. But that a man who had been Attorney-General,--who had been the head of the bar,--should
thus write to a Secretary of State, was to him disgusting. To his thinking, a great lawyer,
even a good lawyer, would be incapable of enthusiasm as to any case in which he was employed.
The ignorant childish world outside would indulge in zeal and hot feelings,--but for an advocate
to do so was to show that he was no lawyer,--that he was no better than the outside world.
Even spoken eloquence was, in his mind, almost beneath a lawyer,--studied eloquence certainly
was so. But such written words as these disgusted him. And then he came across allusions to
the condition of the poor lady at Folking. What could the condition of the lady at Folking
have to do with the matter? Though the poor lady at Folking should die in her sorrow, that
could not alter the facts as they had occurred in Australia! It was not for him, or for the
Secretary of State, to endeavour to make things pleasant all round here in England. It had
been the jury's duty to find out whether that crime had been committed, and his duty to see
that all due facilities were given to the jury. It had been Sir John Joram's duty to make out
what best case he could for his client,--and then to rest contented. Had all things been as
they should be, the Secretary of State would have had no duty at all in the matter. It was
in this frame of mind that Judge Bramber applied himself to the consideration of the case.
No juster man ever lived;--and yet in his mind there was a bias against the prisoner.

Nevertheless he went to his work with great patience, and a resolve to sift everything that
was to be sifted. The Secretary of State had done no more than his required duty in sending
the case to him, and he would now do his. He took the counter-evidence as it came in the papers.
In order that the two Bagwaxian theories, each founded on the same small document, might be
expounded, one consecutively after the other, Dick Shand and his deposition were produced first.
The judge declared to himself that Dick's single oath, which could not now be tested by cross-examination,
amounted to nothing. He had been a drunkard and a pauper,--had descended to the lowest occupation
which the country afforded, and had more than once nearly died from delirium tremens. He had
then come home penniless, and had--produced his story. If such evidence could avail to rescue
a prisoner from his sentence, and to upset a verdict, what verdict or what sentence could stand?
Poor Dick's sworn testimony, in Judge Bramber's mind, told rather against Caldigate than for him.

Then came the postmarks,--as to which the Bagwaxian theory was quite distinct from that as
to the postage-stamp. Here the judge found the facts to be somewhat complicated and mazy. It
was long before he could understand the full purport of the argument used, and even at last
he hardly understood the whole of it. But he could see nothing in it to justify him in upsetting
the verdict;--nothing even to convince him that the envelope had been fraudulently handled.
There was no evidence that such a dated stamp had not been in use at Sydney on the day named.
Copies from the records kept daily at Sydney,--photographed copies,--should have been submitted
before that argument had been used.

But when it came to the postage-stamp, then he told himself very quickly that the envelope
had been fraudulently handled. The evidence as to the date of the manufacture of the stamp
was conclusive. It could not have served to pay the postage on a letter from Sydney to Nobble
in May 1873, seeing that it had not then been in existence. And thus any necessity there might
otherwise have been for further inquiry as to the postmarks was dissipated. The envelope was
a declared fraud, and the fraud required no further proof. That morsel of evidence had been
fabricated, and laid, at any rate, one of the witnesses in the last trial open to a charge
of perjury. So resolving, Judge Bramber pushed the papers away from him, and began to think
the case over in his mind.

There was certainly something in the entire case as it now stood to excuse Sir John. That was
the first line which his thoughts took. An advocate having clearly seen into a morsel of evidence
on the side opposed to him, and having proved to himself beyond all doubt that it was maliciously
false, must be held to be justified in holding more than a mere advocate's conviction as to
the innocence of his client. Sir John had of course felt that a foul plot had been contrived.
A foul plot no doubt had been contrived. Had the discovery taken place before the case had
been submitted to the jury, the detection of that plot would doubtless have saved the prisoner,
whether guilty or innocent. So much Judge Bramber admitted.

But should it necessarily serve to save him now? Before a jury it would have saved him, whether
guilty or innocent. But the law had got hold of him, and had made him guilty, and the law need
not now subject itself to the normal human weakness of a jury. The case was now in his hands,--in
his, and those of the Secretary, and there need be no weakness. If the man was innocent, in
God's name let him go;--though, as the judge observed to himself, he had deserved all he had
got for his folly and vice. But this discovered plot by no means proved the man's innocence.
It only proved the determination of certain persons to secure his conviction, whether by foul
means or fair. Then he recapitulated to himself various cases in which he had known false evidence
to have been added to true, with the object of convincing a jury as to a real fact.

It might well be that this gang of ruffians,--for it was manifest that there had been such
a gang,--finding the envelope addressed by the man to his wife, had fraudulently,--and as foolishly
as fraudulently,-- endeavoured to bolster up their case by the postage-stamp and the postmark.
Looking back at all the facts, remembering that fatal twenty thousand pounds, remembering that
though the postmarks were forged on that envelope the writing was true, remembering the acknowledged
promise and the combined testimony of the four persons,--he was inclined to think that something
of the kind had been done in this case. If it were so, though he would fain see the perpetrators
of that fraud on their trial for perjury, their fraud in no way diminished Caldigate's guilt.
That a guilty man should escape out of the hands of justice by any fraud was wormwood to Judge
Bramber. Caldigate was guilty. The jury had found him so. Could he take upon himself to say
that the finding of the jury was wrong because the prosecuting party had concocted a fraud
which had not been found out before the verdict was given? Sir John Joram, whom he had known
almost as a boy, had 'demanded' the release of his client. The word stuck in Judge Bramber's
throat. The word had been injudicious The more he thought of the word the more he thought that
the verdict had been a true verdict, in spite of the fraud. A very honest man was Judge Bramber;--but
human.

He almost made up his mind,--but then was obliged to confess to himself that he had not quite
done so. 'It taints the entire evidence with perjury,' Sir John had said. The woman's evidence
was absolutely so tainted,--was defiled with perjury. And the man Crinkett had been so near
the woman that it was impossible to disconnect them. Who had concocted the fraud? The woman
could hardly have done so without the man's connivance. It took him all the morning to think
the matter out, and then he had not made up his mind. To reverse the verdict would certainly
be a thorn in his side,--a pernicious thorn,--but one which, if necessary, he would endure.
Thorns, however, such as these are very persuasive.

At last he determined to have inquiry made as to the woman by the police. She had laid herself
open to an indictment for perjury, and in making inquiry on that head something further might
probably be learned.

Chapter LV

How the Conspirators Throve

There had been some indiscretion among Caldigate's friends from which it resulted that, while
Judge Bramber was considering the matter, and before the police intelligence of Scotland Yard
even had stirred itself in obedience to the judge's orders, nearly all the circumstances which
had been submitted to the judge had become public. Shand knew all that Bagwax had done. Bagwax
was acquainted with the whole of Dick's evidence. And Hester down at Folking understood perfectly
what had been revealed by each of those enthusiastic allies. Dick, as we know, had been staying
at Folking, and had made his presence notable throughout the county. He had succeeded in convincing
uncle Babington, and had been judged to be a false witness by all the Boltons. In that there
had perhaps been no great indiscretion. But when Bagwax opened a correspondence with Mrs. John
Caldigate and explained to her at great length all the circumstances of the postmark and the
postage-stamps, and when at her instance he got a day's holiday and rushed down to Folking,
then, as he felt himself, he was doing that of which Sir John Joram and Mr. Jones would not
approve. But he could not restrain himself. And why should he restrain himself when he had
lost all hope of his journey to Sydney? When the prospect of that delight no longer illumined
his days, why should he not enjoy the other delight of communicating his tidings, --his own
discoveries,--to the afflicted lady? Unless he did so it would appear to her that Joram had
done it all, and there would be no reward,--absolutely none! So he told his tale,--at first
by letter and then with his own natural eloquence. 'Yes, Mrs. Caldigate the postmarks are difficult.
It takes a lifetime of study to understand all the ins and outs of postmarks. To me it is A
B C of course. When I had spent a week or two looking into it I was sure that impression had
never been made in the way of business Bagwax was sitting out on the lawn at Folking and the
bereaved wife, dressed in black, was near him, holding in her hand one of the photographed
copies of the envelope. 'It's A B C to me; but I don't wonder you shouldn't see it.'

'I think I do see a good deal,' said Hester.

'But any babe may understand that,' said Bagwax, pressing forward and putting his forefinger
on the obliteration of the postage-stamp. 'You see the date in the postmark.'

'I know the date very well.'

'We've had it proved that on the date given there, this identical postage-stamp had not yet
been manufactured. The Secretary of State can't get over that. I'll defy him.'

'Why don't they release him at once then?

'Between you and me, Mrs. Caldigate, I think it's Judge Bramber.'

'He can't want to injure an innocent man.'

'From what I've heard Sir John say, I fancy he doesn't like to have the verdict upset. But
they must do it. I'll defy them to get over that.' And again he tapped the queen's-head. Then
he told the story of his love for Jemima, and of his engagement. Of course he was praised and
petted,--as indeed he deserved; and thus, though the house at Folking was a sad house, he enjoyed
himself,--as men do when much is made of them by pretty women.

But the result of all this was that every detail of the story became known to the public, and
was quite common down at Cambridge. The old squire was urgent with Mr. Seely, asking why it
was that when those things were known an instant order had not come from the Secretary of State
for the liberation of his son. Mr. Seely had not been altogether pleased at the way in which
Sir John had gone to work, and was still convinced of the guilt of his own client. His answer
was therefore unsatisfactory, and the old squire proclaimed his intention of proceeding himself
to London and demanding an interview with the Secretary of State. Then the Cambridge newspapers
took up the subject,--generally in the Caldigate interest,--and from thence the matter was
transferred to the metropolitan columns,--which, with one exception, were strong in favour
of such a reversal of the verdict as could be effected by a pardon from the Queen. The one
exception was very pellucid, very unanswerable, and very cold-blooded. It might have been written
by Judge Bramber himself, but that Judge Bramber would sooner have cut his hand off than have
defiled it by making public aught that had come before him judicially or officially. But all
Judge Bramber's arguments were there set forth. Dick wished his father at once to proceed against
the paper for libel because the paper said that his word could not be taken for much. The postmark
theory was exposed to derision. There was no doubt much in the postage-stamp, but not enough
to upset the overwhelming weight of evidence by which the verdict had been obtained. And so
the case became really public, and the newspapers were bought and read with the avidity which
marks those festive periods in which some popular criminal is being discussed at every breakfast-table.

Much of this had occurred before the intelligence of Scotland Yard had been set to work in
obedience to Judge Bramber. The papers had been a day or two in the Home Office, and three
or four days in the judge's hands before he could look at them. To Hester and the old squire
at Folking the incarceration of that injured darling was the one thing in all the world which
now required attention. To redress that terrible grievance, judges, secretaries, thrones, and
parliaments, should have left their wonted tracks and thought of nothing till it had been accomplished.
But Judge Bramber, in the performance of his duties, was never hurried; and at the Home Office
a delay but of three or four days amounted to official haste. Thus it came to pass that all
that Bagwax had done and all that Shand had said were known to the public at large before the
intelligence of Scotland Yard was at work,--before anybody had as yet done anything.

Among the public were Euphemia Smith and Mr. Crinkett,--Adamson also, and Anna Young, the other
witness. Since the trial, this confraternity had not passed an altogether fraternal life. When
the money had been paid, the woman had insisted on having the half. She, indeed, had carried
the cheque for the amount away from the Jericho Coffee-house. It had been given into her hands
and those of Crinkett conjointly, and she had secured the document. The amount was payable
to their joint order, and each had felt that it would be better to divide the spoil in peace.
Crinkett had taken his half with many grumblings, because he had, in truth, arranged the matter
and hitherto paid the expenses. Then the woman had wished to start at once for Australia, taking
the other female with her. But to this Crinkett had objected. They would certainly, he said,
be arrested for breaking their bail at whatever port they might reach,--and why should they
go, seeing that the money had been paid to them on the distinct understanding that they were
not pledged to abandon the prosecution. Most unwillingly the woman remained;--but did so fearing
lest worse evil might betide her. Then there had arisen quarrels about the money between the
two females, and between Crinkett and Adamson. It was in vain that Crinkett showed that, were
he to share with Adamson, there would be very little of the plunder left to him. Adamson demanded
a quarter of the whole, short of a quarter of the expenses, declaring that were it not paid
to him, he would divulge everything to the police. The woman, who had got her money in her
hand, and who was, in truth, spending it very quickly, would give back nothing for expenses,
unless her expenses in England also were considered. Nor would she give a shilling to Anna
Young, beyond an allowance of £2 a week, till, as she said, they were both back in the colony
again. But Anna Young did not wish to go back to the colony. And so they quarrelled till the
trial came and was over.

The verdict had been given on the 20th July, and it was about the middle of September when
the newspapers made public all that Shand and Bagwax between them had said and done. At that
time the four conspirators were still in England. The two men were living a wretched life in
London, and the women were probably not less wretched at Brighton. Mrs. Smith, when she learned
that Dick Shand was alive and in England, immediately understood her danger,--understood her
danger, but did not at all measure the security which might come to her from the nature of
Dick's character. She would have flown instantly without a word to any one, but that the other
woman watched her day and night. They did not live under the same roof, nor in similar style.
Euphemia Smith wore silk, and endeavoured to make the best of what female charms her ill mode
of life had left to her; while Young was content with poor apparel and poor living,--but spent
her time in keeping guard on the other. The woman in silk knew that were she to leave her lodgings
for half a day without the knowledge of the woman in calico, the woman in calico would at once
reveal everything to the police. But when she understood the point which had been raised and
made as to the postmark,--which she did understand thoroughly,--then she comprehended also
her own jeopardy, and hurried up to London to see Crinkett. And she settled matters with Young.
If Young would go back with her to Australia, everything there should be made pleasant. Terms
were made at the Brighton station. Anna Young was to receive two thousand pounds in London,
and would then remain as companion with her old mistress.

In London there was a close conference, at first between the two principals only. Crinkett
thought that he was comparatively safe. He had sworn to nothing about the letter; and though
he himself had prepared the envelope, no proof of his handiwork was forthcoming that he had
done so. But he was quite ready to start again to some distant portion of the earth's surface,--to
almost any distant portion of the earth's surface,--if she would consent to a joining of purses.
'And who is to keep the joint purse?' asked Mrs. Smith, not without a touch of grand irony.

'Me, of course,' said Crinkett. 'A man always must have the money.'

'I'd sooner have fourteen years for perjury, like the Claimant,' said Mrs. Smith, with a grand
resolve that, come what might, she would stick to her own money.

But at last it was decided. Adamson would not stir a step, but consented to remain with two
thousand pounds, which Crinkett was compelled to pay him. Crinkett handed him the money within
the precincts of one of the city banks not an hour before the sailing of the Julius Vogel from
the London Docks for Auckland in New Zealand. At that moment both the women were on board the
Julius Vogel, and the gang was so far safe. Crinkett was there in time, and they were carried
safely down the river. New Zealand had been chosen because there they would be further from
their persecutors than at any other spot they could reach. And the journey would occupy long,
and they were pervaded by an idea that as they had been hitherto brought in question as to
no crime, the officers of justice would hardly bring them back from so great a distance.

The Julius Vogel touched at Plymouth on her outward voyage. How terribly inconvenient must
be this habit of touching to passengers going from home, such as Euphemia Smith and Thomas
Crinkett! And the wretched vessel, which had made a quick passage round from the Thames, lay
two days and two nights at Dartmouth, before it went on to Plymouth. Our friends, of course,
did not go on shore. Our friends, who were known as Mr. Catley and his two widowed sisters,
Mrs. Salmon and Mrs. York, kept themselves very quiet, and were altogether well-behaved. But
the women could not restrain some manifestation of their impatience. Why did not the vessel
start? Why were they to be delayed Then the captain made known to them that the time for starting
had not yet come. Three o'clock on that day was the time fixed for starting. As the slow moments
wore themselves away, the women trembled, huddled together on the poop of the vessel; while
Crinkett, never letting the pipe out of his mouth, stood leaning against the taffrail, looking
towards the port, gazing across the waters to see whether anything was coming towards the ship
which might bode evil to his journey. Then there came the bustle preparatory to starting, and
Crinkett thought that he was free, at any rate, for that journey. But such bustle spreads itself
over many minutes. Quarter of an hour succeeded quarter of an hour, and still they were not
off. The last passenger came on board, and yet they were not off. Then Crinkett with his sharp
eyes saw another boat pushed off from the shore, and heard a voice declare that the Julius
Vogel had received a signal not to start. Then Crinkett knew that a time of desperate trouble
had come upon him, and he bethought himself what he would do. Were he to jump overboard, they
would simply pick him up. Nor was he quite sure that he wished to die. The money which he had
kept had not been obtained fraudulently, and would be left to him, he thought, after that term
of imprisonment which it might be his fate to endure. But then, again, it might be that no
such fate was in store for him. He had sworn only to the marriage and not to the letter. It
might still be possible that he should be acquitted, while the woman was condemned. So he stood
perfectly still, and said not a word to either of his companions as to the boat which was coming.
He could soon see two men in the guise of policemen, and another who was certainly a policeman,
though not in that guise. He stood there very quiet, and determined that he would tell his
own name and those of the two women at the first question that was asked him. On the day but
one following, Crinkett and Euphemia Smith were committed in London to take their trial for
perjury.

Adamson, when he had read the reports in the newspapers, and had learned that the postage-stamp
had been detected, and that Shand was at home, also looked about him a little. He talked over
the matter at great length with Crinkett, but he did not tell Crinkett all his own ideas. Some
of them he did make known to Crinkett. He would not himself go to the colonies with Crinkett,
nor would he let Crinkett go till some share of the plunder had been made over to him. This,
after many words, had been fixed at two thousand pounds; and the money, as we have seen, had
been paid. Crinkett had been careful to make the payment at as late a moment as possible. He
had paid the amount,--very much to his own regret when he saw that boat coming,--because he
was quite sure that Adamson would at once have denounced him to the police, had he not done
so. Adamson might denounce him in spite of the payment;--but the payment appeared to him to
be his best chance. When he saw the boat coming, he knew that he had simply thrown away his
two thousand pounds.

In truth, he had simply thrown it away. There is no comfort in having kept one's word honestly,
when one would fain have broken it dishonestly. Adamson, with the large roll of bank-notes
still in his pocket, had gone at once to Scotland Yard and told his story. At that time all
the details had been sent by the judge to the police-office, and it was understood that a great
inquiry was to be made. In the first place, Crinkett and Euphemia Smith were wanted. Adamson
soon made his bargain. He could tell something,--could certainly tell where Crinkett and the
women were to be found; but he must be assured that any little peccadillo of which he himself
might have been guilty would be overlooked. The peccadillo on his part had been very small,
but he must be assured. Then he was assured, and told the police at once that they could stop
the two travellers at Plymouth. And of course he told more than that. There had been no marriage,--no
real marriage. He had been induced to swear that there had been a marriage, because he had
regarded the promise and the cohabitation as making a marriage,--'in heaven.' So he had expressed
himself, and so excused himself. But now his eyes had been opened to the error of his ways,
and he was free to acknowledge that he had committed perjury. There had been no marriage;--certainly
none at all. He made his deposition, and bound himself down, and submitted to live under the
surveillance of the police till the affair should be settled. Then he would be able to go where
he listed, with two thousand pounds in his pocket. He was a humble, silent, and generally obedient
man, but in this affair he had managed to thrive better than any of the others. Anna Young
was afterwards allowed to fill the same position; but she failed in getting any of the money.
While the women were in London together, and as they were starting, Euphemia Smith had been
too strong for her companion. She had declared that she would not pay the money till they were
afloat, and then that she would not pay it till they had left Plymouth. When the police came
on board the Julius Vogel, Anna Young had as yet received nothing.

Chapter LVI

The Boltons Are Very Firm

While all this was going on, as the general opinion in favour of Caldigate was becoming stronger
every day, when even Judge Bramber had begun to doubt, the feeling which had always prevailed
at Puritan Grange was growing in intensity and converting itself from a conviction into a passion.
That the wicked bigamist had falsely and fraudulently robbed her of her daughter was a religion
to Mrs. Bolton;--and, as the matter had proceeded, the old banker had become ever more and
more submissive to his wife's feelings. All the Cambridge Boltons were in accord on this subject,--who
had never before been in accord on any subject. Robert Bolton, who understood thoroughly each
point as it was raised on behalf of Caldigate, was quite sure that the old squire was spending
his money freely, his own money and his son's, with the view of getting the verdict set aside.
What was so clear as that Dick Shand and Bagwax, and probably also Smithers from the Stamps
and Taxes, were all in the pay of old Caldigate? At this time the defection of Adamson was
not known to him, but he did know that a strong case was being made with the Secretary of State.
'If it costs me all I have in the world I will expose them,' he said up in London to his brother
William, the London barrister.

The barrister was not quite in accord with the other Boltons. He also had been disposed to
think that Dick Shand and Bagwax might have been bribed by the squire. It was at any rate possible.
And the twenty thousand pounds paid to the accusing witnesses had always stuck in his throat
when he had endeavoured to believe that Caldigate might be innocent. It seemed to him still
that the balance of evidence was against the man who had taken his sister away from her home.
But he was willing to leave that to the Secretary of State and to the judge. He did not see
why his sister should not have her husband and be restored to the world,--if Judge Bramber
should at last decide that so it ought to be. No money could bribe Judge Bramber. No undue
persuasion could weaken him. If that Rhadamanthus should at last say that the verdict had been
a wrong verdict, then,--for pity's sake, for love's sake, in the name of humanity, and for
the sake of all Boltons present and to come,--let the man be considered innocent.

But Robert Bolton was more intent on his purpose, and was a man of stronger passion. Perhaps
some real religious scruple told him that a woman should not live with a man who was not her
true husband,--let any judge say what he might. But hatred, probably, had more to do with it
than religion. It was he who had first favoured Caldigate's claim on Hester's hand, and he
who had been most grievously deceived. From the moment in which the conviction had come upon
him that Caldigate had even promised his hand in marriage to Euphemia Smith, he had become
Caldigate's enemy,--his bitter enemy; and now he could not endure the thought that he should
be called upon again to receive Caldigate as his brother-in-law. Caldigate's guilt was an idea
fixed in his mind which no Secretary of State, no Judge Bramber, no brother could expel.

And so it came to pass that there were hard words between him and his brother. 'You are wrong,'
said William.

'How wrong? You cannot say that you believe him to be innocent.'

'If he receives the Queen's pardon he is to be considered as innocent.'

'Even though you should know him to have been guilty?'

'Well,--yes,' said William, slowly, and perhaps indiscreetly. 'It is a matter in which a man's
guilt or innocence must be held to depend upon what persons in due authority have declared.
As he is now guilty of bigamy in consequence of the verdict, even though he should never have
committed the offence, so should he be presumed to be innocent, when that verdict has been
set aside by the Queen's pardon on the advice of her proper officers,--even though he committed
the offence.'

'You would have your sister live with a man who has another wife alive? It comes to that.'

'For all legal purposes he would have no other wife alive.'

'The children would be illegitimate.'

'There you are decidedly wrong,' said the barrister. 'The children would be legitimate. Even
at this moment, without any pardon, the child could claim and would enter in upon his inheritance.'

'The next of kin would claim,' said the attorney.

'The burden of proving the former marriage would then be on him,' said the barrister.

'The verdict would be evidence,' said the attorney.

'Certainly,' said the barrister; 'but such evidence would not be worth a straw after a Queen's
pardon, given on the advice of the judge who had tried the former case. As yet we know not
what the judge may say,--we do not know the facts as they have been expounded to him. But if
Caldigate be regarded as innocent by the world at large, it will be our duty so to regard him.'

'I will never look on him as Hester's husband,' said the attorney.

'I and Fanny have already made up our minds that we would at once ask them to come to us for
a month,' said the barrister.

'Nothing on earth will induce me to speak to him,' said the attorney.

'Then you will be very cruel to Hester,' said the barrister.

'It is dreadful to me,' said the attorney, 'that you should care so little for your sister's
reputation.' And so they quarrelled. Robert, leaving the house in great dudgeon, went down
on the following morning to Cambridge.

At Puritan Grange the matter was argued rather by rules of religion than of law; but as the
rules of law were made by those interested to fit themselves to expediency, so were the rules
of religion fitted to prejudice. No hatred could be more bitter than that which Mrs. Bolton
felt for the man whom she would permit no one to call her son-in-law. Something as to the postage-stamp
and the postmarks was told her; but with a woman's indomitable obstinacy she closed her mind
against all that,--as indeed did also the banker. 'Is her position in the world to depend upon
a postage-stamp?' said the banker, intending to support his wife. Then she arose in her wrath,
and was very eloquent. 'Her position in the world!' she said. 'What does it matter? It is her
soul! Though all men and all women should call her a castaway, it would be nothing if the Lord
knew her to be guiltless. But she will be living as an adulteress with an adulterer. The law
has told her that it is so. She will feel every day and every night that she is a transgressor,
and will vainly seek consolation by telling herself that men have pardoned that which God has
condemned.' And again she broke forth. 'The Queen's pardon! What right has the Queen to pardon
an adulterer who has crept into the bosom of a family and destroyed all that he found there?
What sense of justice can any Queen have in her bosom who will send such a one back, to heap
sin upon sin, to fasten the bonds of iniquity on the soul of my child?' Postage-stamps and
postmarks and an old envelope! The triviality of the things as compared with the importance
of everlasting life made her feel that they were unworthy to be even noticed. It did not occur
to her that the presence of a bodkin might be ample evidence of murder. Post-marks indeed,--when
her daughter's everlasting life was the matter in question! Then they told her of Dick Shand.
She, too, had heard of Dick Shand. He had been a gambler. So she said,--without much truth.
He was known for a drunkard, a spendthrift, a penniless idle ne'er-do-well who had wandered
back home without clothes to his back;--which was certainly untrue, as the yellow trousers
had been bought at San Francisco;--and now she was told that the hated miscreant was to be
released from prison because such a one as this was ready to take an oath! She had a knack
of looking on such men,--ne'er-do-wells like Dick Shand and Caldigate,--as human beings who
had, as it were, lost their souls before death, so that it was useless to think of them otherwise
than as already damned. That Caldigate should become a good, honest, loving husband, or Dick
Shand a truth-speaking witness, was to her thinking much more improbable than that a camel
should go through the eye of a needle. She would press her lips together and grind her teeth
and shake her head when any one about her spoke of a doubt. The man was in prison, at any rate
for two years,--locked up safe for so much time, as it might be a wild beast which with infinite
trouble had been caged. And now they were talking of undoing the bars and allowing the monster
to gorge himself again with his prey!

'If the Queen were told the truth she would never do it,' she said to her amazed husband. 'The
Queen is a mother and a woman who kneels in prayer before her Maker. Something should be done,
so that the truth may be made known to her.'

To illuminate all the darkness which was betrayed by this appeal to him was altogether beyond
Mr. Bolton's power. He appreciated the depth of the darkness. He knew, for instance, that the
Queen herself would in such a matter act so simply in accordance with the advice of some one
else, that the pardon, if given, would not in the least depend on her Majesty's sentiments.
To call it the Queen's pardon was a simple figure of speech. This was manifest to him, and
he was driven to endeavour to make it manifest to her. She spoke of a petition to be sent direct
to the Queen, and insinuated that Robert Bolton, if he were anything like a real brother, would
force himself into her Majesty's presence. 'It isn't the Queen,' said her husband.

'It is the Queen. Mercy is the prerogative of the Crown. Even I know as much as that. And she
is to be made to believe that this is mercy!'

'Her Majesty does what her Ministers tell her.'

'But she wouldn't if she was told the truth. I do not for a moment believe that she would allow
such a man as that to be let loose about the world like a roaring lion if she knew all that
you and I know. Mercy indeed!'

'It won't be meant for mercy, my dear.'

'What then? Do you not know that the man has another wife alive,--a wife much more suited to
him than our poor darling? Nobody would hear my voice while there was yet time. And so my child,
my only one, was taken away from me by her own father and her own brothers, and no one now
will exert himself to bring her back to her home!' The poor old man had had but little comfort
in his home since his daughter's marriage, and was now more miserable than ever.

Then there came a letter from Hester to her mother. Since Mrs. Bolton's last visit to Folking
there had been some correspondence maintained. A few letters had passed, very sad on each side,
in which the daughter had assured the mother of her undying love, and in which the mother had
declared that day and night she prayed for her child. But of Caldigate, neither on one side
nor on the other had mention been made. Now Hester, who was full of hope, and sick with hope
deferred, endeavoured to convince her mother that the entire charge against her husband had
been proved by new evidence to be false. She recapitulated all the little details with which
the diligent reader must by this time be too well acquainted. She made quite clear, as she
thought, the infamous plot by which the envelope had been made to give false evidence, and
she added the assurance that certainly before long her dear, dearest, ill-used husband would
be restored to her. Then she went on to implore her mother's renewed affection both for herself
and him and her boy, promising that bygones should all be bygones; and then she ended by declaring
that though the return of her husband would make her very happy, she could not be altogether
happy unless her parents also should be restored to her.

To this there came a crushing answer, as follows:---

    'Puritan Grange, 28th September.'

    'Dearest Hester,--It was unnecessary that you should ask for a
    renewal of your mother's love. There has never been a moment in
    which she has not loved you,--more dearly, I fear, than one human
    creature should ever love another. When I was strongest in opposing
    you, I did so from love. When I watched you in the hall all those
    hours, endeavouring to save you from further contact with the man
    who had injured you, I did it from love. You need not doubt my love.

    'But as to all the rest, I cannot agree to a word that you say. They
    are plotting with false evidence to rescue the man from prison. I
    will not give way to it when my soul tells me that it is untrue. As
    your mother, I can only implore you to come back to me, and to save
    yourself from the further evil which is coming upon you. It may be
    that he will be enabled to escape, and then you will again have to
    live with a husband that is no husband,--unless you will listen to
    your mother's words.

    'You are thinking of the good things of this world,--of a home with
    all luxuries and ease, and of triumph over those who, for the good
    of your soul, have hitherto marred your worldly joys. Is it thus
    that you hope to win that crown of everlasting life which you have
    been taught to regard as the one thing worthy of a Christian's
    struggles? Is it not true that, since that wretched day on which you
    were taken away from me, you have allowed your mind to pass from
    thoughts of eternity to longings after vain joys in this bitter,
    fruitless vale of tears? If that be so, can he who has so encouraged
    you have been good to you? Do you remember David's words; "Some
    trust in chariots, and some in horses; but we will remember the name
    of the Lord our God"? And then, again; "They are brought down and
    fallen; but we are risen and stand upright." Ask yourself whether
    you have stood upright or have fallen, since you left your father's
    house; whether you have trusted in the Lord your God, or in horses
    and chariots,--that is, in the vain comforts of an easy life? If it
    be so, can it be for your good that you have left your father's
    house? And should you not accept this scourge that has fallen upon
    you as a healing balm from the hands of the Lord?

    'My child, I have no other answer to send you. That I love you till
    my very bowels yearn after you is most true. But I cannot profess to
    believe a lie, or declare that to be good which I know to be evil.

    'May the Lord bless you, and turn your feet aright, and restore you
    to your loving mother,

    'Mary Bolton.'

When Hester read this she was almost crushed. The delay since the new tidings had come to her
had not, in truth, been very great. It was not yet quite a month since Shand had been at Folking,
and a shorter period since the discoveries of Bagwax had been explained to her. But the days
seemed to her to be very long; and day after day she thought that on that day at least the
news of his promised release would be brought to her. And now, instead of these news, there
came this letter from her mother, harder almost in its words than any words which had hitherto
been either written or spoken in the matter. Even when all the world should have declared him
innocent,--when the Queen, and the great officer of State, and that stern judge, should have
said that he was innocent,--even then her cruel mother would refuse to receive him! She had
been invited to ask herself certain questions as to the state of her soul, and as to the teaching
she had received since her marriage. The subject is one on which there is no possible means
of convergence between persons who have learned to differ. Her mother's allusions to chariots
and horses was to her the enthusiasm of a fanatic. No doubt, teaching had come to her from
her husband, but it had come at the period of life at which such lessons are easily learned.
'Brought down and fallen!' she said to herself. 'Yes, we are all brought down and fallen;'
for she had not at all discarded the principles of her religious faith;--'but a woman will
hardly raise herself by being untrue to her husband.' She, too, yearned for her mother;--but
there was never a moment's doubt in her mind to which she would cling if at last it should
become necessary that one should be cast off.

Mrs. Bolton, when the letter had been despatched, sat brooding over it in deep regret mixed
with deeper anger. She was preparing for herself an awful tragedy. She must be severed for
ever from her daughter, and so severed with the opinion of all her neighbours against her!
But what was all that if she had done right? Or of what service to her would be the contrary
if she were herself to think,--nay, to know,--that she had done wrong?

Chapter LVII

Squire Caldigate at the Home Office

When October came no information from the Secretary of State's office had yet reached Folking,
and the two inhabitants there were becoming almost despondent as well as impatient. There was
nobody with whom they could communicate. Sir John Joram had been obliged to answer a letter
from the squire by saying that, as soon as there was anything to tell the tidings would assuredly
be communicated to him from the Home Office. The letter had seemed to be cold and almost uncivil;
but Sir John had in truth said all that he could say. To raise hopes which, after all, might
be fallacious, would have been, on his part, a great fault. Nor, in spite of his bet, was he
very sanguine, sharing his friend Honybun's opinion as to Judge Bramber's obstinacy. And there
was a correspondence between the elder Caldigate and the Home Office, in which the letters
from the squire were long and well argued, whereas the replies, which always came by return
of post, were short and altogether formal. Some assistant under-secretary would sign his name
at the end of three lines, in which the correspondent was informed that as soon as the matter
was settled the result would be communicated.

Who does not know the sense of aggravated injustice which comes upon a sufferer when redress
for an acknowledged evil is delayed? The wronged one feels that the whole world must be out
of joint in that all the world does not rise up in indignation. So it was with the old squire,
who watched Hester's cheek becoming paler day by day, and who knew by her silence that the
strong hopes which in his presence had been almost convictions were gradually giving way to
a new despair. Then he would abuse the Secretary of State, say hard things of the Queen, express
his scorn as to the fatuous absurdities of the English law, and would make her understand by
his anger that he also was losing hope.

During these days preparations were being made for the committal of Crinkett and Euphemia Smith,
nor would Judge Bramber report to the Secretary till he was convinced that there was sufficient
evidence for their prosecution. It was not much to him that Caldigate should spend another
week in prison. The condition of Hester did not even come beneath his ken. When he found allusion
to it in the papers before him, he treated it as a matter which should not have been adduced,--in
bringing which under his notice there had been something akin to contempt of court, as though
an endeavour had been made to talk him over in private. He knew his own character, and was
indignant that such an argument should have been used with himself. He was perhaps a little
more slow,--something was added to his deliberation,--because he was told that a young wife
and an infant child were anxiously expecting the liberation of the husband and father. It was
not as yet clear to Judge Bramber that the woman had any such husband, or that the child could
claim his father.

At this crisis, when the first weeks in October had dragged themselves tediously along, Mr.
Caldigate, in a fit which was half rage and half moodiness, took himself off to London. He
did not tell Hester that he was going till the morning on which he started, and then simply
assured her that she should hear from him by every post till he returned.

'You will tell me the truth, father.'

'If I know it myself, I will tell you.'

'But you will conceal nothing?'

'No;--I will conceal nothing. If I find that they are all utterly unjust, altogether hard-hearted,
absolutely indifferent to the wrong they have done, I will tell you even that.' And thus he went.

He had hardly any fixed purpose in going. He knew that Sir John Joram was not in London, and
that if he were in town he ought not to be made subject to visits on behalf of clients. To
call upon any judge in such a matter would be altogether out of place, but to call upon such
a judge as Judge Bramber would be very vain indeed. He had in his head some hazy idea of forcing
an answer from the officials in Downing Street; but in his heart he did not believe that he
should be able to get beyond the messengers. He was one of a class, not very small in numbers,
who, from cultivating within their bosom a certain tendency towards suspicion, have come to
think that all Government servants are idle, dilatory, supercilious and incompetent. That some
of these faults may have existed among those who took wages from the Crown in the time of George
III. is perhaps true. And the memory of those times has kept alive the accusation. The vitality
of these prejudices calls to mind the story of the Nottinghamshire farmer who, when told of
the return of Charles II., asked what had become of Charles I. Naseby, Worcester, and the fatal
day at Whitehall had not yet reached him. Tidings of these things had only been approaching
him during these twelve years. The true character of the Civil Service is only now approaching
the intelligence of those who are still shaking their heads over the delinquencies of the last
century. But old Mr. Caldigate was a man peculiarly susceptible to such hard judgments. From
the crown down to the black helmet worn by the policeman who was occasionally to be seen on
Folking causeway, he thought that all such headpieces were coverings for malpractices. The
bishop's wig had, he thought, disappeared as being too ridiculous for the times; but even for
the judge's wig he had no respect. Judge Bramber was to him simply pretentious, and a Secretary
of State no better than any other man. In this frame of mind how was it probable that he should
do any good at the Home Office?

But in this frame of mind he went to the Home Office, and asked boldly for the great man. It
was then eleven o'clock in the morning and neither had the great man, nor even any of the deputy
great men, as yet made their appearance. Mr. Caldigate of course fell back upon his old opinion
as to public functionaries, and, mentally, applied opprobrious epithets to men who, taking
the public pay, could not be at their posts an hour before mid-day. He was not aware that the
great man and the first deputy great man were sitting in the House of Commons at 2 A.M. on
that morning, and that the office generally was driven by the necessity of things to accommodate
itself to Parliamentary exigencies.

Then he was asked his business. How could he explain to a messenger that his son had been unjustly
convicted of bigamy and was now in prison as a criminal? So he left his card and said that
he would call again at two.

At that hour precisely he appeared again and was told that the great man himself could not
see him. Then he nearly boiled over in his wrath, while the messenger, with all possible courtesy,
went on to explain that one of the deputies was ready to receive him. The deputy was the Honourable
Septimus Brown, of whom it may be said that the Home Office was so proud that it considered
itself to be superior to all other public offices whatever simply because it possessed Brown.
He had been there for forty years, and for many sessions past had been the salvation of Parliamentary
secretaries and under-secretaries. He was the uncle of an earl, and the brother-in-law of a
duke and a marquis. Not to know Brown was, at the West End, simply to be unknown. Brooks's
was proud of him; and without him the 'Travellers'' would not have been such a Travellers'
as it is. But Mr. Caldigate, when he was told that Mr. Brown would see him, almost left the
lobby in instant disgust. When he asked who was Mr. Brown, there came a muttered reply in which
'permanent' was the only word audible to him. He felt that were he to go away in dudgeon simply
because Brown was the name of the man whom he was called upon to see, he would put himself
in the wrong. He would by so doing close his own mouth against complaint, which, to Mr. Caldigate,
would indeed have been a cutting of his own nose off his own face. With a scowl, therefore
he consented to be taken away to Mr. Brown.

He was, in the first place, somewhat scared by the room into which he was shown, which was
very large and very high. There were two clerks with Mr. Brown, who vanished, however, as soon
as the squire entered the room. It seemed that Mr. Brown was certainly of some standing in
the office, or he would not have had two arm-chairs and a sofa in his room. Mr. Caldigate,
when he first consented to see Mr. Brown, had expected to be led into an uncarpeted chamber
where there would have been half-a-dozen other clerks.

'I have your card, Mr. Caldigate,' said the official. 'No doubt you have called in reference
to your son.'

The squire had determined to be very indignant,--very indignant even with the Secretary of
State himself, to whose indifference he attributed the delay which had occurred;--but almost
more than indignant when he found that he was to be fobbed off with Mr. Brown. But there was
something in the gentleman's voice which checked his indignation. There was something in Mr.
Brown's eye, a mixture of good-humour and authority, which made him feel that he ought not
to be angry with the gentleman till he was quite sure of the occasion. Mr. Brown was a handsome
hale old man with grey whiskers and greyish hair, with a well-formed nose and a broad forehead,
carefully dressed with a light waistcoat and a checked linen cravat, wearing a dark-blue frockcoat,
and very well made boots,--an old man, certainly, but who looked as though old age must naturally
be the happiest time of life. When a man's digestion is thoroughly good and his pockets adequately
filled, it probably is so. Such were the circumstances of Mr. Brown, who, as the squire looked
at him, seemed to partake more of the nature of his nephew and brothers-in-law than of the
Browns generally.

'Yes, sir,' said Mr. Caldigate; 'I have called about my son who, I think I may undertake to
say, has been wrongly condemned, and is now wrongly retained in prison.'

'You beg all the questions, Mr. Caldigate,' said the permanent under-secretary, with a smile.

'I maintain that what you call the questions are now so clearly proved as not to admit of controversy.
No one can deny that a conspiracy was got up against my son.'

'I shall not deny it, certainly, Mr. Caldigate. But in truth I know very little or nothing
about it.' The squire, who had been seated, rose from his chair,--as in wrath,--about to pour
forth his indignation. Why was he treated in this way,--he who was there on a subject of such
tragic interest to him? When all the prospects, reputation, and condition of his son were at
stake, he was referred to a gentleman who began by telling him that he knew nothing about the
matter! 'If you will sit down for a moment, Mr. Caldigate, I will explain all that can be explained,'
said Mr. Brown, who was weather-wise in such matters, and had seen the signs of a coming storm.

'Certainly I will sit down.'

'In such cases as this the Secretary of State never sees those who are interested. It is not
right that he should do so.'

'There might be somebody to do so.'

'But not somebody who has been concerned in the inquiry. The Secretary of State, if he saw
you, could only refuse to impart to you any portion of the information which he himself may
possess, because it cannot be right that he should give an opinion in the matter while he himself
is in doubt. You may be sure that he will open his mouth to no one except to those from whom
he may seek assistance, till he has been enabled to advise her Majesty that her Majesty's pardon
should be given or refused.'

'When will that be?'

'I am afraid that I cannot name a day. You, Mr. Caldigate, are, I know, a gentleman of position
in your county and a magistrate. Cannot you understand how minutely facts must be investigated
when a Minister of the Crown is called upon to accept the responsibility of either upsetting
or confirming the verdict of a jury?'

'The facts are as clear as daylight.'

'If they be so, your son will soon be a free man.'

'If you could feel what his wife suffers in the meantime!'

'Though I did feel it,--though we all felt it; as probably we do, for though we be officials
still we are men,--how should that help us? You would not have a man pardoned because his wife
suffers!'

'Knowing how she suffered, I do not think I should let much grass grow under my feet while
I was making the inquiry.'

'I hope there is no such grass grows here. The truth is, Mr. Caldigate, that, as a rule, no
person coming here on such an errand as yours is received at all. The Secretary of State cannot,
either in his own person or in that of those who are under him, put himself in communication
with the friends of individuals who are under sentence. I am sure that you, as a man conversant
with the laws, must see the propriety of such a rule.'

'I think I have a right to express my natural anxiety.'

'I will not deny it. The post is open to you, and though I fear that our replies may not be
considered altogether satisfactory, we do give our full attention to the letters we receive.
When I heard that you had been here, and had expressed an intention of returning, from respect
to yourself personally I desired that you might be shown into my room. But I could not have
done that had it not been that I myself have not been concerned in this matter.' Then he got
up from his seat, and Mr. Caldigate found himself compelled to leave the room with thanks rather
than with indignation.

He walked out of the big building into Downing Street, and down the steps into the park. And
going into the gardens, he wandered about them for more than an hour, sometimes walking slowly
along the water-side, and then seating himself for a while on one of the benches. What must
he say to Hester in the letter which he must write as soon as he was back at his hotel? He
tried to sift some wheat out of what he was pleased to call the chaff of Mr. Brown's courtesy.
Was there not some indication to be found in it of what the result might be? If there were
any such indication, it was, he thought, certainly adverse to his son. In whose bosom might
be the ultimate decision,--whether in that of the Secretary, or the judge, or of some experienced
clerk in the Secretary's office,--it was manifest that the facts which had now been proven
to the world at large for many days, had none of the effects on that bosom which they had on
his own. Could it be that Shand was false, that Bagwax was false, that the postage-stamp was
false,--and that he only believed them to be true? Was it possible that after all his son had
married the woman? He crept back to his hotel in Jermyn Street, and there he wrote his letter.

'I think I shall be home to-morrow, but I will not say so for certain. I have been at the Home
Office, but they would tell me nothing. A man was very civil to me, but explained that he was
civil only because he knew nothing about the case. I think I shall call on Mr. Bagwax at the
Post-office to-morrow, and after that return to Folking. Send in for the day-mail letters,
and then you will hear from me again if I mean to stay.'

At ten o'clock on the following day he was at the Post-office, and there he found Bagwax prepared
to take his seat exactly at that hour. Thereupon he resolved, with true radical impetuosity,
that Bagwax was a much better public servant than Mr. Brown. 'Well, Mr. Caldigate,--so we've
got it all clear at last,' said Bagwax.

There was a triumph in the tone of the clerk's voice which was not intelligible to the despondent
old squire. 'It is not at all clear to me,' he said.

'Of course you've heard?'

'Heard what? I know all about the postage-stamp, of course.'

'If Secretaries of State and judges of the Court of Queen's Bench only had their wits about
them, the postage-stamp ought to have been quite sufficient,' said Bagwax, sententiously.

'What more is there?'

'For the sake of letting the world know what can be done in our department, it is a pity that
there should be anything more.'

'But there is something. For God's sake tell me, Mr. Bagwax.'

'You haven't heard that they caught Crinkett just as he was leaving Plymouth?'

'Not a word.'

'And the woman. They've got the lot of 'em, Mr. Caldigate. Adamson and the other woman have
agreed to give evidence, and are to be let go.'

'When did you hear it?'

'Well;--it is in the "Daily Tell-tale." But I knew it last night,--from a particular source.
I have been a good deal thrown in with Scotland Yard since this began, Mr. Caldigate, and,
of course, I hear things.' Then it occurred to the squire that perhaps he had flown a little
too high in going at once to the Home Office. They might have told him more, perhaps, in Scotland
Yard. 'But it's all true. The depositions have already been made. Adamson and Young have sworn
that they were present at no marriage. Crinkett they say, means to plead guilty; but the woman
sticks to it like wax.'

The squire had written a letter by the day-mail to say that he would remain in London that
further day. He now wrote again, at the Post-office, telling Hester all that Bagwax had told
him, and declaring his purpose of going at once to Scotland Yard.

If this story were true, then certainly his son would soon be liberated.

Chapter LVIII

Mr. Smirkie Is Ill-used

It was on a Tuesday that Mr. Caldigate made his visit to the Home Office, and on the Thursday
he returned to Cambridge. On the platform whom should he meet but his brother-in-law Squire
Babington, who had come into Cambridge that morning intent on hearing something further about
his nephew. He, too, had read a paragraph in his newspaper, 'The Snapper,' as to Crinkett and
Euphemia Smith.

'Thomas Crinkett, and Euphemia Smith, who gave evidence against Mr. John Caldigate in the well-known
trial at the last Cambridge assizes, have been arrested at Plymouth just as they were about
to leave the country for New Zealand. These are the persons to whom it was proved that Caldigate
had paid the enormous sum of twenty thousand pounds a few days before the trial. It is alleged
that they are to be indicted for perjury. If this be true, it implies the innocence of Mr.
Caldigate, who, as our readers will remember, was convicted of bigamy. There will be much in
the whole case for Mr. Caldigate to regret, but nothing so much as the loss of that very serious
sum of money. It would be idle to deny that it was regarded by the jury, and the judge, and
the public as a bribe to the witnesses. Why it should have been paid will now probably remain
for ever a mystery.'

The squire read this over three times before he could quite understand the gist of it, and
at last perceived,--or thought that he perceived,--that if this were true the innocence of
his nephew was incontestable. But Julia, who seemed to prefer the paternal mansion at Babington
to her own peculiar comforts and privileges at Plum-cum-Pippins, declared that she didn't believe
a word of it; and aunt Polly, whose animosity to her nephew had somewhat subsided, was not
quite inclined to accept the statement at once. Aunt Polly expressed an opinion that newspapers
were only born to lie, but added that had she seen the news anywhere else she would not have
been a bit surprised. The squire was prepared to swear by the tidings. If such a thing was
not to be put into a newspaper, where was it to be put? Aunt Polly could not answer this question,
but assisted in persuading her husband to go into Cambridge for further information.

'I hope this is true,' said the Suffolk squire, tendering his hand cordially to his brother-in-law.
He was a man who could throw all his heart into an internecine quarrel on a Monday and forget
the circumstance altogether on the Tuesday.

'Of what are you speaking?' asked the squire of Folking, with his usual placid look, partly
indifferent and partly sarcastic, covering so much contempt of which the squire from Suffolk
was able to read nothing at all.

'About the man and the woman, the witnesses who are to be put in prison at Plymouth, and who
now say just the contrary to what they said before.'

'I do not think that can be true,' said Mr. Caldigate.

'Then you haven't seen the "Snapper"?' asked Mr. Babington, dragging the paper out of his pocket.
'Look at that.'

They were now in a cab together, going towards the town, and Mr. Caldigate did not find it
convenient to read the paragraph. But of course he knew the contents. 'It is quite true,' he
said, 'that the persons you allude to have been arrested, and that they are up in London. They
will, I presume, be tried for perjury.'

'It is true?'

'There is no doubt of it.'

'And the party are splitting against each other?' asked Mr. Babington eagerly.

'Two of them have already sworn that what they swore before was false.'

'Then why don't they let him out?'

'Why not, indeed?' said Mr. Caldigate.

'I should have thought they wouldn't have lost a moment in such a case. They've got one of
the best fellows in the world at the Home Office. His name is Brown. If you could have seen
Brown I'm sure he wouldn't have let them delay a minute. The Home Office has the reputation
of being so very quick.'

In answer to this the squire of Folking only shook his head. He would not even condescend to
say that he had seen Brown, and certainly not to explain that Brown had seemed to him to be
the most absurdly-cautious and courteously-dilatory man that he had ever met in his life. In
Trumpington Street they parted, Mr. Caldigate proceeding at once to Folking, and Mr. Babington
going to the office of Mr. Seely the attorney. 'He'll be out in a day or two,' said the man
of Suffolk, again shaking his brother-in-law's hand; 'and do you tell him from me that I hope
it won't be long before we see him at Babington. I've been true to him almost from the first,
and his aunt has come over now. There is no one against him but Julia, and these are things
of course which young women won't forget.'

Mr. Caldigate almost became genial as he accepted this assurance, telling himself that his
brother magistrate was as honest as he was silly.

Mr. Babington, who was well known in Cambridge, asked many questions of many persons. From
Mr. Seely he heard but little. Mr. Seely had heard of the arrest made at Plymouth, but did
not quite know what to think about it. If it was all square, then he supposed his client must
after all be innocent. But this went altogether against the grain with Mr. Seely. 'If it be
so, Mr. Babington,' he said, 'I shall always think the paying away of that twenty thousand
pounds the greatest miracle I ever came across.' Nevertheless, Mr. Seely did believe that the
two witnesses had been arrested on a charge of perjury.

The squire then went to the governor of the jail, who had been connected with him many years
as a county magistrate. The governor had heard nothing, received no information as to his prisoner
from any one in authority; but quite believed the story as to Crinkett and the woman. 'Perhaps
you had better not see him, Mr. Babington,' said the governor, 'as he has heard nothing as
yet of all this. It would not be right to tell him till we know what it will come to.' Assenting
to this, Mr. Babington took his leave with the conviction on his mind that the governor was
quite prepared to receive an order for the liberation of his prisoner.

He did not dare to go to Robert Bolton's office, but he did call at the bank. 'We have heard
nothing about it, Mr. Babington,' said the old clerk over the counter. But then the old clerk
added in a whisper, 'None of the family take to the news, sir; but everybody else seems to
think there is a great deal in it. If he didn't marry her I suppose he ought to be let out.'

'I should think he ought,' said the squire, indignantly as he left the bank.

Thus fortified by what he considered to be the general voice of Cambridge, he returned the
same evening to Babington. Cambridge, including Mr. Caldigate, had been unanimous in believing
the report. And if the report were true, then, certainly, was his nephew innocent. As he thought
of this, some appropriate idea of the injustice of the evil done to the man and to the man's
wife came upon him. If such were the treatment to which he and she had been subjected,--if
he, innocent, had been torn away from her and sent to the common jail, and if she, certainly
innocent, had been wrongly deprived for a time of the name which he had honestly given her,--then
would it not have been right to open to her the hearts and the doors at Babington during the
period of her great distress? As he thought of this he was so melted by ruth that a tear came
into each of his old eyes. Then he remembered the attempt which had been made to catch this
man for Julia--as to which he certainly had been innocent,--and his daughter's continued wrath.
That a woman should be wrathful in such a matter was natural to him. He conceived that it behoved
a woman to be weak, irascible, affectionate, irrational, and soft-hearted. When Julia would
be loud in condemnation of her cousin, and would pretend to commiserate the woes of the poor
wife who had been left in Australia, though he knew the source of these feelings, he could
not be in the least angry with her. But that was not at all the state of his mind in reference
to his son-in-law Augustus Smirkie. Sometimes, as he had heard Mr. Smirkie inveigh against
the enormity of bigamy and of this bigamist in particular, he had determined that some 'odd-come-shortly,'
as he would call it, he would give the vicar of Plum-cum-Pippins a moral pat on the head which
should silence him for a time. At the present moment when he got into his carriage at the station
to be taken home, he was not sure whether or no he should find the vicar at Babington. Since
their marriage, Mr. Smirkie had spent much of his time at Babington, and seemed to like the
Babington claret. He would come about the middle of the week and return on the Saturday evening,
in a manner which the squire could hardly reconcile with all that he had heard as to Mr. Smirkie's
exemplary conduct in his own parish. The squire was hospitality itself, and certainly would
never have said a word to make his house other than pleasant to his own girl's husband. But
a host expects that his corns should be respected, whereas Mr. Smirkie was always treading
on Mr. Babington's toes. Hints had been given to him as to his personal conduct which he did
not take altogether in good part. His absence from afternoon service had been alluded to, and
it had been suggested to him that he ought sometimes to be more careful as to his language.
He was not, therefore ill-disposed to resent on the part of Mr. Smirkie the spirit of persecution
with which that gentleman seemed to regard his nephew. 'Is Mr. Smirkie in the house,' he asked
the coachman. 'He came by the 3.40, as usual,' said the man. It was very much 'as usual,' thought
the squire.

'There isn't a doubt about it,' said the squire to his wife as he was dressing. 'The poor fellow
is as innocent as you.'

'He can't be,--innocent,' said aunt Polly.

'If he never married the woman whom they say he married he can't be guilty.'

'I don't know about that, my dear.'

'He either did marry her or he didn't, I suppose.'

'I don't say he married her, but,--he did worse.'

'No, he didn't,' said the squire.

'That may be your way of thinking of it. According to my idea of what is right and what is
wrong, he did a great deal worse.'

'But if he didn't marry that woman he didn't commit bigamy when he married this one,' argued
he, energetically.

'Still he may have deserved all he got.'

'No; he mayn't. You wouldn't punish a man for murder because he doesn't pay his debts.'

'I won't have it that he's innocent,' said Mrs. Babington.

'Who the devil is, if you come to that?'

'You are not, or you wouldn't talk in that way. I'm not saying anything now against John. If
he didn't marry the woman I suppose they'll let him out of prison, and I for one shall be willing
to take him by the hand; but to say he's innocent is what I won't put up with!'

'He has sown his wild oats, and he's none the worse for that. He's as good as the rest of us,
I dare say.'

'Speak for yourself,' said the wife. 'I don't suppose you mean to tell me that in the eyes
of the Creator he is as good a man as Augustus.'

'Augustus be ----.' The word was spoken with great energy. Mrs. Babington at the moment was
employed in sewing a button on the wristband of her husband's shirt, and in the start which
she gave stuck the needle into his arm.

'Humphrey!' exclaimed the agitated lady.

'I beg your pardon, but not his,' said the squire, rubbing the wound. 'If he says a word more
about John Caldigate in my presence, I shall tell him what I think about it. He has got his
wife, and that ought to be enough for him.'

After that they went down-stairs and dinner was at once announced. There was Mr. Smirkie to
give an arm to his mother-in-law. The squire took his married daughter while the other two
followed. As they crossed the hall Julia whispered her cousin's name, but her father bade her
be silent for the present. 'I was sure it was not true,' said Mrs. Smirkie.

'Then you're quite wrong,' said the squire, 'for it's as true as the Gospel.' Then there was
no more said about John Caldigate till the servants had left the room.

Mr. Smirkie's general appreciation of the good things provided, did not on this occasion give
the owner of them that gratification which a host should feel in the pleasures of his guests.
He ate a very good dinner and took his wine with a full appreciation of its merits. Such an
appetite on the part of his friends was generally much esteemed by the squire of Babington,
who was apt to press the bottle upon those who sat with him, in the old-fashioned manner. At
the present moment he eyed his son-in-law's enjoyments with a feeling akin to disappointment.
There was a habit at Babington with the ladies of sitting with the squire when he was the only
man present till he had finished his wine, and, at Mrs. Smirkie's instance, this custom was
continued when she and her husband were at the house. Fires had been commenced, and when the
dinner-things had been taken away they clustered round the hearth. The squire himself sat silent
in his place, out of humour, knowing that the peculiar subject would be introduced, and determined
to make himself disagreeable.

'Papa, won't you bring your chair round?' said one of the girls who was next to him. Whereupon
he did move his chair an inch or two.

'Did you hear anything about John?' said the other unmarried sister.

'Yes, I heard about him. You can't help hearing about him in Cambridge now. All the world is
talking about him.'

'And what does all the world say?' asked Julia, flippantly. To this question her father at
first made no answer. 'Whatever the world may say, I cannot alter my opinion,' continued Julia.
'I shall never be able to look upon John Caldigate and Hester Bolton as man and wife in the
sight of God.'

'I might just as well take upon myself to say that I didn't look upon you and Smirkie as man
and wife in the sight of God.'

'Papa!' screamed the married daughter.

'Sir!' ejaculated the married son-in-law.

'My dear, that is a strange thing to say of your own child,' whispered the mother.

'Most strange!' said Julia, lifting both her hands up in an agony.

'But it's true,' roared the squire. 'She says that, let the law say what it may, these people
are not to be regarded as man and wife.'

'Not by me,' said Julia.

'Who are you that you are to set up a tribunal of your own? And if you judge of another couple
in that way, why isn't some one to judge of you after the same fashion?'

'There is the verdict,' said Mr. Smirkie. 'No verdict has pronounced me a bigamist.'

'But it might for anything I know,' said the squire, angrily. 'Some woman might come up in
Plum-cum-Pippins and say you had married her before your first wife.'

'Papa, you are very disagreeable,' said Julia.

'Why shouldn't there be a wicked lie told in one place as well as in another? There has been
a wicked lie told here; and when the lie is proved to have been a lie, as plain as the nose
on your face, he is to tell me that he won't believe the young folk to be man and wife because
of an untrue verdict! I say they are man and wife;--as good a man and wife as you and he;--and
let me see who'll refuse to meet them as such in my house?'

Mr. Smirkie had not, in truth, made the offensive remark. It had been made by Mrs. Smirkie.
But it had suited the squire to attribute it to the clergyman. Mr. Smirkie was now put upon
his mettle, and was obliged either to agree or to disagree. He would have preferred the former,
had he not been somewhat in awe of his wife. As it was, he fell back upon the indiscreet assertion
which his father-in-law had made some time back. 'I, at any rate, sir, have not had a verdict
against me.'

'What does that signify?'

'A great deal, I should say. A verdict, no doubt, is human, and therefore may be wrong.'

'So is a marriage human.'

'I beg your pardon, sir;--a marriage is divine.'

'Not if it isn't a marriage. Your marriage in our church wouldn't have been divine if you'd
had another wife alive.'

'Papa, I wish you wouldn't.'

'But I shall. I've got to hammer it into his head somehow.'

Mr. Smirkie drew himself up and grinned bravely. But the squire did not care for his frowns.
That last backhander at the claret-jug had determined him. 'John Caldigate's marriage with
his wife was not in the least interfered with by the verdict.'

'It took away the lady's name from her at once,' said the indignant clergyman.

'That's just what it didn't do,' said the squire, rising from his chair;--'of itself it didn't
affect her name at all. And now that it is shown to have been a mistaken verdict, it doesn't
affect her position. The long and the short of it is this, that anybody who doesn't like to
meet him and his wife as honoured guests in my house had better stay away. Do you hear that,
Julia?' Then without waiting for an answer he walked out before them all into the drawing-room
and not another word was said that night about the matter. Mr. Smirkie, indeed, did not utter
a word on any subject, till at an early hour he wished them all good-night with dignified composure.

Chapter LIX

How The Big-Wigs Doubted

It's what I call an awful shame.' Mr. Holt and parson Bromley were standing together on the
causeway at Folking, and the former was speaking. The subject under discussion was, of course,
the continued detention of John Caldigate in the county prison.

'I cannot at all understand it,' said Mr. Bromley.

'There's no understanding nothing about it, sir. Every man, woman, and child in the county
knows as there wasn't no other marriage, and yet they won't let 'un out. It's sheer spite,
because he wouldn't vote for their man last 'lection.'

'I hardly think that, Mr. Holt.'

'I'm as sure of it as I stands here,' said Mr. Holt, slapping his thigh. 'What else 'd they
keep 'un in for? It's just like their ways.'

Mr. Holt was one of a rare class, being a liberal farmer,--a Liberal, that is, in politics;
as was also Mr. Bromley, a Liberal among parsons,--rava avis. The Caldigates had always been
Liberal, and Mr. Holt had been brought up to agree with his landlord. He was now beyond measure
acerbated, because John Caldigate had not been as yet declared innocent on evidence which was
altogether conclusive to himself. The Conservatives were now in power, and nothing seemed so
natural to Mr. Holt as that the Home Secretary should keep his landlord in jail because the
Caldigates were Liberals. Mr. Bromley could not quite agree to this, but he also was of opinion
that a great injustice was being done. He was in the habit of seeing the young wife almost
daily, and knew the havoc which hope turned into despair was making with her. Another week
had now gone by since the old squire had been up in town, and nothing yet had been heard from
the Secretary of State. All the world knew that Crinkett and Euphemia Smith were in custody,
and still no tidings came,--yet the husband, convicted on the evidence of these perjurers,
was detained in prison!

Hope deferred maketh the heart sick, and Hester's heart was very sick within her. 'Why do they
not tell me something?' she said when her father-in-law vainly endeavoured to comfort her.
Why not, indeed? He could only say hard things of the whole system under which the perpetration
of so great a cruelty was possible, and reiterate his opinion that, in spite of that system,
they must, before long, let his son go free.

The delay in truth was not at the Home Office. Judge Bramber could not as yet quite make up
his mind. It is hoped that the reader has made up his, but the reader knows somewhat more than
the judge knew. Crinkett had confessed nothing,--though a rumour had got abroad that he intended
to plead guilty. Euphemia Smith was constant in her assertion to all those who came near her,
that she had positively been married to the man at Ahalala. Adamson and Anna Young were ready
now to swear that all which they had sworn before was false; but it was known to the police
that they had quarrelled bitterly as to the division of the spoil ever since the money had
been paid to the ring-leaders. It was known that Anna Young had succeeded in getting nothing
from the other woman, and that the man had unwillingly accepted his small share, fearing that
otherwise he might get nothing. They were not trustworthy witnesses, and it was very doubtful
whether the other two could be convicted on their evidence. The judge, as he turned it all
over in his mind, was by no means sure that the verdict was a mistaken verdict. It was at any
rate a verdict. It was a decision constitutionally arrived at from a jury. This sending back
of the matter to him hardly was constitutional.

It was abhorrent to his nature,--not that a guilty man should escape, which he knew to be an
affair occurring every day,--but that a guilty man, who had been found to be guilty, should
creep back through the meshes of the law. He knew how many chances were given by the practice
of British courts to an offender on his trial, and he was quite in favour of those chances.
He would be urgent in telling a jury to give the prisoner the benefit of a doubt. But when
the transgressor, with all those loopholes stopped, stood before him convicted, then he felt
a delight in the tightness of the grip with which he held the wretch, and would tell himself
that the world in which he lived was not as yet all astray, in that a guilty man could still
be made to endure the proper reward of his guilt.

It was with him as when a hunter has hunted a fox after the approved laws of venery. There
have been a dozen ways of killing the animal of which he has scorned to avail himself. He has
been careful to let him break from his covert, regarding all who would stop him as enemies
to himself. It has been a point of honour with him that the animal should suffer no undue impediment.
Any ill-treatment shown to the favoured one in his course, is an injury done to the hunter
himself. Let no man head the fox, let no man strive to drive him back upon the hounds. Let
all be done by hunting law,--in accordance with those laws which give so many chances of escape.
But when the hounds have run into their quarry, not all the eloquence of all the gods should
serve to save that doomed one's life.

So it was with Judge Bramber and a convicted prisoner. He would give the man the full benefit
of every quibble of the law till he was convicted. He would be severe on witnesses, harsh to
the police, apparently a very friend to the man standing at the bar,--till the time came for
him to array the evidence before the jury. Then he was inexorable; and when the verdict had
been once pronounced, the prisoner was but as a fox about to be thrown to the hounds.

And now there was a demand that this particular fox should be put back into his covert! The
Secretary of State could put him back, if he thought fit. But in these matters there was so
often a touch of cowardice. Why did not the Secretary do it without asking him? There had arisen
no question of law. There was no question as to the propriety of the verdict as found upon
the evidence given at the trial. The doubt which had arisen since had come from further evidence,
of which the Secretary was as well able to judge as he. No doubt the case was difficult. There
had been gross misdoing on both sides. But if Caldigate had not married the woman, why had
he paid those twenty thousands? Why had he written those words on the envelope? There was doubt
enough now, but the time for giving the prisoner the benefit of the doubt was gone. The fox
had been fairly hunted, and Judge Bramber thought that he had better die.

But he hesitated;--and while he was hesitating there came to him a little reminder, a most
gentle hint, in the shape of a note from the Secretary of State's private secretary. The old
squire's visit to the office had not seemed to himself to be satisfactory, but he had made
a friend for himself in Mr. Brown. Mr. Brown looked into the matter, and was of opinion that
it would be well to pardon the young man. Even though there had been some jumping over a broomstick
at Ahalala, why should things not be made comfortable here at home? What harm would a pardon
do to any one?--whereas there were so many whom it would make happy. So he asked the Secretary
whether that wasn't a hard case of young Caldigate. The Secretary whispered that it was in
Bramber's hands, upon which Mr. Brown observed that, if so, it was certainly hard. But the
conversation was not altogether thrown away, for on that afternoon the private secretary wrote
his note.

Judge Bramber when he received the note immediately burned it,--and this he did with considerable
energy of action. If they would send him such cases as that, what right had they to remind
him of his duty? He was not going to allow any private secretary or any Secretary of State,
to hurry him! There was no life or death in this matter. Of what importance was it that so
manifest an evil-doer as this young Caldigate should remain in prison a day or two more,--a
man who had attempted to bribe four witnesses by twenty thousand pounds? It was an additional
evil that such a one should have such a sum for such a purpose. But still he felt that there
was a duty thrown upon him; and he sat down with all the papers before him, determined to make
up his mind before he rose from his chair.

He did make up his mind, but did so at last by referring back the responsibility to the Secretary
of State. 'The question is one altogether of evidence,' he said, 'and not of law. Any clear-headed
man is as able to reach a true decision as I am. It is such a question as should be left to
a jury,--and would justify a trial on appeal if that were practicable. It would be well that
the case should stand over till Thomas Crinkett and Euphemia Smith shall have been tried for
perjury, which, as I understand, will take place at the next winter assizes. If the Secretary
of State thinks that the delay would be too long, I would humbly suggest that he should take
her Majesty's pleasure in accordance with his own opinion as to the evidence.'

When that document was read at the Home Office by the few who were privileged to read it, they
knew that Judge Bramber had been in a very ill humour. But there was no help for that. The
judge had been asked for advice and had refused to give it; or had advised,--if his remark
on that subject was to be taken for advice,--that the consideration of the matter should be
postponed for another three months. The case, if there was any case in favour of the prisoner,
was not one for pardon but for such redress as might now be given for a most gross injustice.
The man had been put to a very great expense, and had been already in prison for ten or eleven
weeks, and his further detention would be held to have been very cruel if it should appear
at last that the verdict had been wrong. The public press was already using strong language
on the subject, and the Secretary of State was not indifferent to the public press. Judge Bramber
thoroughly despised the press,--though he would have been very angry if his 'Times' had not
been ready for him at breakfast every morning. And two or three questions had already been
asked in the House of Commons. The Secretary of State, with that habitual strategy, without
which any Secretary of State must be held to be unfit for the position which he holds, contrived
to answer the questions so as to show that, while the gentlemen who asked them were the most
indiscreet of individuals, he was the most discreet of Secretaries. And he did this, though
he was strongly of opinion that Judge Bramber's delay was unjustifiable. But what would be
thought of a Secretary of State who would impute blame in the House of Commons to one of the
judges of the land before public opinion had expressed itself so strongly on the matter as
to make such expression indispensable? He did not think that he was in the least untrue in
throwing blame back upon the questioners, and in implying that on the side of the Crown there
had been no undue delay, though, at the moment, he was inwardly provoked at the dilatoriness
of the judge.

Public opinion was expressing itself very strongly in the press. 'The Daily Tell-Tale' had
a beautifully sensational article, written by their very best artist. The whole picture was
drawn with a cunning hand. The young wife in her lonely house down in Cambridge which the artist
not inaptly called The Moated Grange! The noble, innocent, high-souled husband, eating his
heart out within the bars of a county prison, and with very little else to eat! The indignant
father, driven almost to madness by the wrongs done to his son and heir! Had the son not been
an heir this point would have been much less touching. And then the old evidence was dissected,
and the new evidence against the new culprits explained. In regard to the new culprits, the
writer was very loud in expressing his purpose to say not a word against persons who were still
to be tried;--but immediately upon that he went on and said a great many words against them.
Assuming all that was said about them to be true, he asked whether the country would for a
moment endure the idea that a man in Mr. Caldigate's position should be kept in prison on the
evidence of such miscreants. When he came to Bagwax and the postmarks, he explained the whole
matter with almost more than accuracy. He showed that the impression could not possibly have
been made till after the date it conveyed. He fell into some little error as to the fabrication
of the postage-stamp in the colony, not having quite seized Bagwax's great point. But it was
a most telling article. And the writer, as he turned it off at his club, and sent it down to
the office of the paper, was ready to bet a five-pound note that Caldigate would be out before
a week was over. The Secretary of State saw the article, and acknowledged its power. And then
even the 'Slipper' turned round and cautiously expressed an opinion that the time had come
for mercy.

There could be no doubt that public opinion was running very high in Caldigate's favour, and
that the case had become thoroughly popular. People were again beginning to give dinner-parties
in London, and at every party the matter was discussed. It was a peculiarly interesting case
because the man had thrown away so large a sum of money! People like to have a nut to crack
which is 'uncrackable,'--a Gordian knot to undo which cannot even be cut. Nobody could understand
the twenty thousand pounds. Would any man pay such a sum with the object of buying off false
witnesses,--and do it in such a manner that all the facts must be brought to light when he
was tried? It was said here and there that he had paid the money because he owed it;--but then
it had been shown so clearly that he had not owed any one a penny! Nevertheless the men were
all certain that he was not guilty, and the ladies thought that whether he were guilty or not
did not matter much. He certainly ought to be released from prison.

But yet the Secretary doubted. In that unspoken but heartfelt accusation of cowardice which
the judge had made against the great officer of State there had been some truth. How would
it be if it should be made to appear at the approaching trial that the two reprobates, who
had turned Queen's evidence against their associates, were to break down altogether in their
assertions? It might possibly then become quite apparent that Caldigate had married the woman,
and had committed bigamy, when he would already have been pardoned for the last three months!
The pardon in that case would not do away with the verdict,--and the pardoned man would be
a convicted bigamist. What, then, would be the condition of his wife and child? If subsequent
question should arise as to the boy's legitimacy, as might so probably be the case, in what
light would he appear, he who had taken upon himself, on his own responsibility, to extort
from her Majesty a pardon in opposition to a righteous and just verdict,--in opposition to
the judge who had tried the case? He had been angry with Judge Bramber for not deciding, and
was now frightened at the necessity of deciding himself.

In this emergency he sent for the gentleman who had managed the prosecution on the part of
the Crown, and asked him to read up the case again, 'I never was convinced of the prisoner's
guilt,' said the barrister.

'No!'

'It was one of those cases in which we cannot be convinced. The strongest point against him
was the payment of the money. It is possible that he paid it from a Quixotic feeling of honour.'

'To false witnesses, and that before the trial!' said the Secretary.

'And there may have been a hope that, in spite of what he said himself as to their staying,
they would take themselves off when they had got the money. In that way he may have persuaded
himself that, as an honest man, he ought to make the payment. Then as to the witnesses, there
can be little doubt that they were willing to lie. Even if their main story were true, they
were lying as to details.'

'Then you would advise a pardon?'

'I think so,' said the barrister, who was not responsible for his advice.

'Without waiting for the other trial?'

'If the perjury be then proved,--or even so nearly proved as to satisfy the outside world,--the
man's detention will be thought to have been a hardship.' The Secretary of State thanked the
barrister and let him go. He then went down to the House, and amidst the turmoil of a strong
party conflict at last made up his mind. It was unjust that such responsibility should be thrown
upon any one person. There ought to be some Court of Appeal for such cases. He was sure of
that now. But at last he made up his mind. Early on the next morning the Queen should be advised
to allow John Caldigate to go free.

Chapter LX

How Mrs. Bolton Was Nearly Conquered

One morning about the middle of October, Robert Bolton walked out from Cambridge to Puritan
Grange with a letter in his pocket,--a very long and a very serious letter. The day was that
on which the Secretary of State was closeted with the barrister, and on the evening of which
he at length determined that Caldigate should be allowed to go free. There had, therefore,
been no pardon granted,--as yet. But in the letter the writer stated that such pardon would,
almost certainly, be awarded.

It was from William Bolton, in London, to his brother the attorney, and was written with the
view of proving to all the Boltons at Cambridge, that it was their duty to acknowledge Hester
as the undoubted wife of John Caldigate; and recommended also that, for Hester's sake, they
should receive him as her husband. The letter had been written with very great care, and had
been powerful enough to persuade Robert Bolton of the truth of the first proposition.

It was very long, and as it repeated all the details of the evidence for and against the verdict,
it shall not be repeated here at its full length. Its intention was to show that, looking at
probabilities, and judging from all that was known, there was much more reason to suppose that
there had been no marriage at Ahalala than that there had been one. The writer acknowledged
that, while the verdict stood confirmed against the man, Hester's family were bound to regard
it, and to act as though they did not doubt its justice;--but that when that verdict should
be set aside,--as far as any criminal verdict can be set aside,--by the Queen's pardon, then
the family would be bound to suppose that they who advised her Majesty had exercised a sound
discretion.

'I am sure you will all agree with me,' he said, 'that no personal feeling in regard to Caldigate
should influence your judgment. For myself, I like the man. But that, I think, has had nothing
to do with my opinion. If it had been the case that, having a wife living, he had betrayed
my sister into all the misery of a false marriage, and had made her the mother of a nameless
child, I should have felt myself bound to punish him to every extent within my power. I do
not think it unchristian to say that in such a case I could not have forgiven him. But presuming
it to be otherwise,--as we all shall be bound to do if he be pardoned,--then, for Hester's
sake, we should receive the man with whom her lot in life is so closely connected. She, poor
dear, has suffered enough, and should not be subjected to the further trouble of our estrangement.

'Nor, if we acknowledge the charge against him to be untrue, is there any reason for a quarrel.
If he has not been bad to our sister in that matter, he has been altogether good to her. She
has for him that devotion which is the best evidence that a marriage has been well chosen.
Presuming him to be innocent, we must confess, as to her, that she has been simply loyal to
her husband,--with such loyalty as every married man would desire. For this she should be rewarded
rather than punished.

'I write to you thinking that in this way I may best reach my father and Mrs. Bolton. I would
go down and see them did I not know that your words would be more efficacious with them than
my own. And I do it as a duty to my sister, which I feel myself bound to perform. Pray forgive
me if I remind you that in this respect she has a peculiar right to a performance of your duty
in the matter. You counselled and carried out the marriage,--not at all unfortunately if the
man be, as I think, innocent. But you are bound at any rate to sift the evidence very closely,
and not to mar her happiness by refusing to acknowledge him if there be reasonable ground for
supposing the verdict to have been incorrect.'

Sift the evidence, indeed! Robert Bolton had done that already very closely. Bagwax and the
stamps had not moved him, nor the direct assurance of Dick Shand. But the incarceration by
Government of Crinkett and Euphemia Smith had shaken him, and the fact that they had endeavoured
to escape the moment they heard of Shand's arrival. But not the less had he hated Caldigate.
The feeling which had been impressed on his mind when the first facts were made known to him
remained. Caldigate had been engaged to marry the woman, and had lived with her, and had addressed
her as his wife! The man had in a way got the better of him. And then the twenty thousand pounds!
And then, again, Caldigate's manner to himself! He could not get over his personal aversion,
and therefore unconsciously wished that his brother-in-law should be guilty,--wished at any
rate that he should be kept in prison. Gradually had fallen upon him the conviction that Caldigate
would be pardoned. And then of course there had come much consideration as to his sister's
condition. He, too, was a conscientious and an affectionate man. He was well aware of his duty
to his sister. While he was able to assure himself that Caldigate was not her husband, he could
satisfy himself by a conviction that it was his duty to keep them apart. Thus he could hate
the man, advocate all severity against the man, and believe the while that he was doing his
duty to his sister as an affectionate brother. But now there was a revulsion. It was three
weeks since he and his brother had parted, not with the kindest feelings, up in London, and
during that time the sifting of the evidence had been going on within his own breast from hour
to hour. And now this letter had come,--a letter which he could not put away in anger, a letter
which he could not ignore. To quarrel permanently with his brother William was quite out of
the question. He knew the value of such a friend too well, and had been too often guided by
his advice. So he sifted the evidence once again, and then walked off to Puritan Grange with
the letter in his pocket.

In these latter days old Mr. Bolton did not go often into Cambridge. Men said that his daughter's
misfortune had broken him very much. It was perhaps the violence of his wife's religion rather
than the weight of his daughter's sufferings which cowed him. Since Hester's awful obstinacy
had become hopeless to Mrs. Bolton, an atmosphere of sackcloth and ashes had made itself more
than ever predominant at Puritan Grange. If any one hated papistry Mrs. Bolton did so; but
from a similar action of religious fanaticism she had fallen into worse that papistical self-persecution.
That men and women were all worms to be trodden under foot, and grass of the field to be thrown
into the oven, was borne in so often on poor Mr. Bolton that he had not strength left to go
to the bank. And they were nearer akin to worms and more like grass of the field than ever,
because Hester would stay at Folking instead of returning to her own home.

She was in this frame of mind when Robert Bolton was shown into the morning sitting-room. She
was sitting with the Bible before her, but with some domestic needlework in her lap. He was
doing nothing,--not even having a book ready to his hand. Thus he would sit the greater part
of the day, listening to her when she would read to him, but much preferring to be left alone.
His life had been active and prosperous, but the evening of his days was certainly not happy.

His son Robert had been anxious to discuss the matter with him first, but found himself unable
to separate them without an amount of ceremony which would have filled her with suspicion.
'I have received a letter this morning from William,' he said, addressing himself to his father.

'William Bolton is, I fear, of the world worldly,' said the step-mother. 'His words always
savour to me of the huge ungodly city in which he dwells.'

But that this was not a time for such an exercise he would have endeavoured to expose the prejudice
of the lady. As it was he was very gentle. 'William is a man who understands his duty well,'
he said.

'Many do that, but few act up to their understanding she rejoined.

'I think, sir, I had better read his letter to you. It has been written with that intention,
and I am bound to let you know the contents. Perhaps Mrs. Bolton will let me go to the end
so that we may discuss it afterwards.'

But Mrs. Bolton would not let him go to the end. He had not probably expected such forbearance.
At every point as to the evidence she interrupted him, striving to show that the arguments
used were of no real weight. She was altogether irrational, but still she argued her case well.
She withered Bagwax and Dick with her scorn; she ridiculed the quarrels of the male and female
witnesses; she reviled the Secretary of State, and declared it to be a shame that the Queen
should have no better advisers. But when William Bolton spoke of Hester's happiness, and of
the concessions which should be made to secure that, she burst out into eloquence. What did
he know of her happiness? Was it not manifest that he was alluding to this world without a
thought of the next? 'Not a reflection as to her soul's welfare has once come across his mind,'
she said;--'not an idea as to the sin with which her soul would be laden were she to continue
to live with the man when knowing that he was not her husband.'

'She would know nothing of the kind,' said the attorney.

"She ought to know it," said Mrs. Bolton, again begging the whole question.

But he persevered, as he had resolved to do when he left his house upon this difficult mission.
'I am sure my father will acknowledge,' he said, 'that however strong our own feelings have
been, we should bow to the conviction of others who--'

But he was promulgating a doctrine which her conscience required her to stop at once. 'The
conviction of others shall never have weight with me when the welfare of my eternal soul is
at stake.'

'I am speaking of those who have had better means of getting at the truth than have come within
our reach. The Secretary of State can have no bias of his own in the matter.'

'He is, I fear, a godless man, living and dealing with the godless. Did I not hear the other
day that the great Ministers of State will not even give a moment to attend to the short meaningless
prayers which are read in the House of Commons?'

'No one,' continued Robert Bolton, trying to get away from sentiment into real argument,--'no
one can have been more intent on separating them than William was when he thought that the
evidence was against him. Now he thinks the evidence in his favour. I know no man whose head
is clearer than my brother's. I am not very fond of John Caldigate.'

'Nor am I,' said the woman with an energy which betrayed much of her true feeling.

'But if it be the case that they are in truth man and wife--'

'In the sight of God they are not so,' she said.

'Then,' he continued, trying to put aside her interruption, and to go on with the assertion
he had commenced, 'it must be our duty to acknowledge him for her sake. Were we not to do so,
we should stand condemned in the opinion of all the world.'

'Who cares for the opinion of the world?'

'And we should destroy her happiness.'

'Her happiness here on earth! What does that matter? There is no such happiness.'

It was a very hard fight, but perhaps not harder than he had expected. He had known that she
would not listen to reason,--that she would not even attempt to understand it. And he had learned
before this how impregnable was that will of fanaticism in which she would entrench herself,--how
improbable it was that she would capitulate under the force of any argument. But he thought
it possible that he might move his father to assert himself. He was well aware that, in the
midst of that apparent lethargy, his father's mind was at work with much of its old energy.
He understood the physical infirmities and religious vacillation which, combined, had brought
the old man into his present state of apparent submission. It was hardly two years since the
same thing had been done in regard to Hester's marriage. Then Mr. Bolton had asserted himself,
and declared his will in opposition to his wife. There had indeed been much change in him since
that time, but still something of the old fire remained. 'I have thought it to be my duty,
sir,' he said, 'to make known to you William's opinion and my own. I say nothing as to social
intercourse. That must be left to yourself. But if this pardon be granted, you will, I think,
be bound to acknowledge John Caldigate to be your son-in-law.'

'Your father agrees with me,' said Mrs. Bolton, rising from her chair, and speaking in an angry
tone.

'I hope you both will agree with me. As soon as tidings of the pardon reach you, you should,
I think, intimate to Hester that you accept her marriage as having been true and legal. I shall
do so, even though I should never see him in my house again.'

'You of course will do as you please.'

'And you, sir?' he said, appealing to the old man.

'You have no right to dictate to your father,' said the wife angrily.

'He has always encouraged me to offer him my advice.' Then Mr. Bolton shuffled in his chair,
as though collecting himself for an effort,--and at last sat up, with his head, however, bent
forward, and with both his arms resting on the arms of his chair. Though he looked to be old,
much older than he was, still there was a gleam of fire in his eye. He was thin, almost emaciated,
and his head hung forward as though there were not strength left in his spine for him to sit
erect. 'I hope, sir, you do not think that I have gone beyond my duty in what I have said.'

'She shall come here,' muttered the old man.

'Certainly, she shall,' said Mrs. Bolton, 'if she will. Do you suppose that I do not long to
have my own child in my arms?'

'She shall come here, and be called by her name,' said the father.

'She shall be Hester,--my own Hester,' said the mother, not feeling herself as yet called upon
to contradict her husband.

'And John Caldigate shall come,' he said.

'Never!' exclaimed Mrs. Bolton.

'He shall be asked to come. I say he shall. Am I to be harder on my own child than are all
the others? Shall I call her a castaway, when others say that she is an honest married woman?'

'Who has called her a castaway?'

'I took the verdict of the jury, though it broke my heart,' he continued. 'It broke my heart
to be told that my girl and her child were nameless,--but I believed it because the jury said
so, and because the judge declared it. When they tell me the contrary, why shall I not believe
that? I do believe it; and she shall come here, if she will, and he shall come.' Then he got
up and slowly moved out of the room, so that there might be no further argument on the subject.

She had reseated herself with her arms crossed, and there sat perfectly mute. Robert Bolton
stood up and repeated all his arguments, appealing even to her maternal love,--but she answered
him never a word. She had not even yet succeeded in making the companion of her life submissive
to her! That was the feeling which was now uppermost in her mind. He had said that Caldigate
should be asked to the house, and should be acknowledged throughout all Cambridge as his son-in-law.
And having said it, he would be as good as his word. She was sure of that. Of what avail had
been all the labour of her life with such a result?

'I hope you will think that I have done no more than my duty,' said Robert Bolton, offering
her his hand. But there she sat perfectly silent, with her arms still folded, and would take
no notice of him. 'Good-bye,' said he, striving to put something of the softness of affection
into his voice. But she would not even bend her head to him;--and thus he left her.

She remained motionless for the best part of an hour. Then she got up, and according to her
daily custom walked a certain number of times round the garden. Her mind was so full that she
did not as usual observe every twig, almost every leaf, as she passed. Nor, now that she was
alone, was that religious bias, which had so much to do with her daily life, very strong within
her. There was no taint of hypocrisy in her character; but yet, with the force of human disappointment
heavy upon her, her heart was now hot with human anger, and mutinous with human resolves. She
had proposed to herself to revenge herself upon the men of her husband's family,--upon the
men who had contrived that marriage for her daughter,--by devoting herself to the care of that
daughter and her nameless grandson, and by letting it be known to all that the misery of their
condition would have been spared had her word prevailed. That they should live together a stern,
dark, but still sympathetic life, secluded within the high walls of that lonely abode, and
that she should thus be able to prove how right she had been, how wicked and calamitous their
interference with her child,--that had been the scheme of her life. And now her scheme was
knocked on the head, and Hester was to become a prosperous ordinary married woman amidst the
fatness of the land at Folking! It was all wormwood to her. But still, as she walked, she acknowledged
to herself, that as that old man had said so,--so it must be. With all her labour, with all
her care, and with all her strength, she had not succeeded in becoming the master of that weak
old man.

Chapter LXI

The News Reaches Cambridge

The tidings of John Caldigate's pardon reached Cambridge on the Saturday morning, and was communicated
in various shapes. Official letters from the Home Office were written to the governor of the
jail and to the sub-sheriff, to Mr. Seely who was still acting as attorney on behalf of the
prisoner, and to Caldigate himself. The latter was longer than the others, and contained a
gracious expression of Her Majesty's regret that he as an innocent person should have been
subjected to imprisonment. The Secretary of State also was described as being keenly sensible
of the injustice which had been perpetrated by the unfortunate and most unusual circumstances
of the case. As the Home Office had decided that the man was to be considered innocent, it
decided also on the expression of its opinion without a shadow of remaining doubt. And the
news reached Cambridge in other ways by the same post. William Bolton wrote both to his father
and brother, and Mr. Brown the Under-Secretary sent a private letter to the old squire at Folking,
of which further mention shall be made. Before church time on the Sunday morning, the fact
that John Caldigate was to be released, or had been released from prison, was known to all
Cambridge.

Caldigate himself had borne his imprisonment on the whole well. He had complained but little
to those around him, and had at once resolved to endure the slowly passing two years with silent
fortitude,--as a brave man will resolve to bear any evil for which there is no remedy. But
a more wretched man than he was after the first week of bitterness could hardly be found. Fortitude
has no effect in abating such misery other than what may come from an absence of fretful impatience.
The man who endures all that the tormentors can do to him without a sign, simply refuses to
acknowledge the agonies inflicted. So it was with Caldigate. Though he obeyed with placid readiness
all the prison instructions, and composed his features and seemed almost to smile when that
which was to be exacted from him was explained, he ate his heart in dismay as he counted the
days, the hours, the minutes, and then calculated the amount of misery that was in store for
him. And there was so much more for him to think of than his own condition. He knew of course
that he was innocent of the crime imputed to him;--but would it not be the same to his wife
and child as though he had been in truth guilty? Would not his boy to his dying day be regarded
as illegitimate? And though he had been wrongly condemned, had not all this come in truth from
his own fault? And when that eternity of misery within the prison walls should have come to
an end,--if he could live through it so as to see the end of it,--what would then be his fate,
and what his duty? He had perfect trust in his wife; but who could say what two years might
do,--two years during which she would be subjected to the pressure of all her friends? Where
should he find her when the months had passed? And if she were no longer at Folking, would
she come back to him? He was sure, nearly sure, that he could not claim her as his wife. And
were she still minded to share her future lot with him, in what way should he treat her? If
that horrid woman was his wife in the eye of the law,--and he feared though hardly knew that
it would be so,--then could not that other one, who was to him as a part of his own soul, be
his wife also? What would become of his child, who, as far as he could see, would not be his
child at all in the eye of the law? Even while he was still a free man, still uncondemned,
an effort had been made to rob him of his wife and boy,--an effort which for a time had seemed
to be successful. How would Hester be able to withstand such attempts when they would be justified
by a legal decision that she was not his wife,--and could not become his wife while that other
woman was alive? Such thoughts as these did not tend to relieve the weariness of his days.

The only person from the outside world whom he was allowed to see during the three months of
his incarceration was Mr. Seely, and with him he had two interviews. From the time of the verdict
Mr. Seely was still engaged in making those enquiries as to the evidence of which we have heard
so much, and though he was altogether unsympathetic and incredulous, still he did his duty.
He had told his client that these enquiries were being made, and had, on his second visit,
informed him of the arrival of Dick Shand. But he had never spoken with hope, and had almost
ridiculed Bagwax with his postage-stamps and postmarks. When Caldigate first heard that Dick
was in England,--for a minute or two,--he allowed himself to be full of hope. But the attorney
had dashed his hopes. What was Shand's evidence against the testimony of four witnesses who
had borne the fire of cross-examination? Their character was not very good, but Dick's was,
if possible, worse. Mr. Seely did not think that Dick's word would go for much. He could simply
say that, as far as he knew, there had been no marriage. And in this Mr. Seely had been right,
for Dick's word had not gone for much. Then, when Crinkett and Mrs. Smith had been arrested,
no tidings had reached him of that further event. It had been thought best that nothing as
to that should be communicated to him till the result should be known.

Thus it had come to pass that when the tidings reached the prison he was not in a state of
expectation. The governor of the prison knew what was going on, and had for days been looking
for the order of release. But he had not held himself to be justified in acquainting his prisoner
with the facts. The despatches to him and to Caldigate from the Home Office were marked immediate,
and by the courtesy of the postmaster were given in at the prison gates before daylight. Caldigate
was still asleep when the door of the cell was opened by the governor in person and the communication
was made to him as he lay for the last time stretched on his prison pallet. 'You can get up
a free man, Mr. Caldigate,' said the governor, with his hand on his prisoner's shoulder. 'I
have here the Queen's pardon. It has reached me this morning.' Caldigate got up and looked
at the man as though he did not at first understand the words that had been spoken. 'It is
true, Mr. Caldigate. Here is my authority,--and this, no doubt, is a communication of the same
nature to yourself.' Then Caldigate took the letter, and, with his mind still bewildered, made
himself acquainted with the gratifying fact that all the big-wigs were very sorry for the misfortune
which had befallen him.

In his state of mind, as it then was, he was by no means disposed to think much of the injustice
done to him. He had in store for him, for immediate use, a whole world of glorious bliss. There
was his house, his property, his farm, his garden, and the free air. And there would be the
knowledge of all those around him that he had not done the treacherous thing of which those
wretches had accused him.

And added to all this, and above all this, there would be his wife and his child! It was odd
enough that a word from the mouth of an exalted Parliamentary personage should be able to give
him back one wife and release him from another,--in opposition to the decision of the law,--should
avail to restore to his boy the name and birthright of which he had been practically deprived,
and should, by a stroke of his pen, undo all that had been done by the combined efforts of
jury, judge, and prosecutor! But he found that so it was. He was pardoned, forsooth, as though
he were still a guilty man! Yet he would have back his wife and child, and no one could gainsay
him.

'When can I go?' he said, jumping from his bed.

'When you please;--now, at once. But you had better come into the house and breakfast with
me first.'

'If I may I would rather go instantly. Can you send for a carriage for me?' Then the governor
endeavoured to explain to him that it would be better for his wife, and more comfortable for
everybody concerned, that she should have been enabled to expect him, if it were only for an
hour or two, before his arrival. A communication would doubtless have been made from the Home
Office to some one at Folking, and as that would be sent out by the foot-postman it would not
be received before nine in the morning.

But Caldigate would not allow himself to be persuaded As for eating before he had seen the
dear ones at home, that he declared to be impossible. A vision of what that breakfast might
be to him with his own wife at his side came before his eyes, and therefore a messenger was
at once sent for the vehicle.

But the postmaster, who from the beginning had never been a believer in the Australian wife,
and, being a Liberal, was staunch to the Caldigate side of the question, would not allow the
letter addressed to the old squire to be retained for the slow operations of the regular messenger,
but sent it off manfully by horse express, before the dawn of day, so that it reached the old
squire almost as soon as the other letters reached the prison. The squire, who was an early
man, was shaving himself when the despatch was brought into his room with an intimation that
the boy on horseback wanted to know what he was to do next. The boy of course got his breakfast
and Mr. Caldigate read his letter, which was as follows:--

    'HOME OFFICE,--October, 187-.

    'My DEAR SIR,--When you did me the honour of calling upon me here I
    was able to do no more than express my sympathy as to the misfortune
    which had fallen upon your family, and to explain to you, I fear not
    very efficiently, that at that moment the mouths of all of us here
    were stopped by official prudence as to the matter which was
    naturally so near your heart. I have now the very great pleasure of
    informing you that the Secretary of State has this morning received
    her Majesty's command to issue a pardon for your son. The official
    intimation will be sent to him and to the county authorities by this
    post, and by the time that this reaches you he will be a free man.

    'In writing to you, I need hardly explain that the form of a pardon
    from the Throne is the only mode allowed by the laws of the country
    for setting aside a verdict which has been found in error upon false
    evidence. Unfortunately, perhaps, we have not the means of annulling
    a criminal conviction by a second trial; and therefore, on such
    occasions as this,--occasions which are very rare,--we have but this
    lame way of redressing a great grievance. I am happy to think that
    in this case the future effect will be as complete as though the
    verdict had been reversed. As to the suffering which has been
    already endured by your son, by his much-injured wife, and by
    yourself, I am aware that no redress can be given.

    It is one of those cases in which the honest and good have to
    endure a portion of the evil produced by the dishonesty of the
    wicked. I can only add to this my best wishes for your son's
    happiness on his return to his home, and express a hope that you
    will understand that I would most willingly have made your visit to
    the Home Office more satisfactory had it been within my power to do
    so.--Believe me, very faithfully yours,

    'SEPTIMUS BROWN.'

He had not read this letter to the end, and had hardly washed the soap from his face, before
he was in his daughter-in-law's room. She was there with her child, still in bed,--thinking,
thinking, thinking whether there would ever come an end to her misery. 'It has come,' said
the old man.

'What has come?' she asked, jumping up with the baby in her arms. But she knew what had come,
for he had the letter open in his hands.

'They have pardoned him. The absurdity of the thing! Pardoning a man whom they know to be innocent,
and to have been injured!'

But the 'absurdity of the thing,' as the old squire very naturally called it, was nothing to
her now. He was to come back to her. She would be in his arms that day. On that very day she
would once again hold up her boy to be kissed by his father.

'Where is he? When will he come? Of course I will go to him! You will make them have the waggonnette
at once; will you not? I will be dressed in five minutes if you will go. Of course I will go
to fetch him.'

But this the squire would not allow. The carriage should be sent, of course, and if it met
his son on the road, as was probable, there would be no harm done. But it would not be well
that the greeting between the husband and the wife should be in public. So he went out to order
the carriage and to prepare himself to accompany it, leaving her to think of her happiness
and to make herself ready for the meeting. But when left to herself she could hardly compose
herself so as to brush her hair and give herself those little graces which should be pleasant
to his eye. 'Papa is coming,' she said to her boy over and over again. 'Papa is coming back.
Papa will be here; your own, own, own papa.' Then she threw aside the black gown, which she
had worn since he left her, and chose for her wear one which he himself had taken pride in
buying for her,--the first article of her dress in the choice of which he had been consulted
as her husband; and with quick unsteady hand she pulled out some gay ribbon for her baby. Yes;--she
and her boy would once again be bright for his sake;--for his sake there should again be gay
ribbons and soft silks. 'Papa is coming, my own one; your own, own papa!' and then she smothered
the child with kisses.

While they were sitting at breakfast at Puritan Grange, the same news reached Mr. and Mrs.
Bolton. The letter to the old man from his son in town was very short, merely stating that
the authorities at the Home Office had at last decided that Caldigate should be released from
prison. The writer knew that his father would be prepared for this news by his brother; and
all that could be said in the way of argument had been said already. The letters which came
to Puritan Grange were few in number, and were generally addressed to the lady. The banker's
letters were all received at the house of business in the town. 'What is it?' asked the wife,
as soon as she saw the long official envelope. But he read it to the end very slowly before
he vouchsafed her any reply. 'It has to do with that wretched man in prison,' she said. 'What
is it?'

'He is in prison no longer.'

'They have let him escape?'

'The Queen has pardoned him because he was not guilty.'

'The Queen! As though she could know whether he be guilty or innocent. What can the Queen know
of the manner of his life in foreign parts,--before he had taken my girl away from me?'

'He never married the woman. Let there be no more said about it. He never married her.'

But Mrs. Bolton, though she was not victorious, was not to be silenced by a single word. No
more about it, indeed! There must be very much more about it. 'If she was not his wife, she
was worse,' she said.

'He has repented of that.'

'Repented!' she said, with scorn. What very righteous person ever believed in the repentance
of an enemy?

'Why should he not repent?'

'He has had leisure in jail.'

'Let us hope that he has used it. At any rate he is her husband. There are not many days left
to me here. Let me at least see my daughter during the few that remain to me.'

'Do I not want to see my own child?'

'I will see her and her boy;--and I will have them called by the name which is theirs. And
he shall come,--if he will. Who are you, or who am I, that we shall throw in his teeth the
sins of his youth?' Then she became sullen and there was not a word more said between them
that morning. But after breakfast the old gardener was sent into town for a fly, and Mr. Bolton
was taken to the bank.

'And what are we to do now?' asked Mrs. Robert Bolton of her husband, when the tidings were
made known to her also at her breakfast-table.

'We must take it as a fact that she is his wife.'

'Of course, my dear. If the Secretary of State were to say that I was his wife, I suppose I
should have to take it as a fact.'

'If he said that you were a goose it might be nearer the mark.'

'Really! But a goose must know what she is to do.'

'You must write her a letter and call her Mrs. Caldigate. That will be an acknowledgment.'

'And what shall I say to her?'

'Ask her to come here, if you will.'

'And him?'

'And him, too. The fact is we have got to swallow it all. I was sure that he had married that
woman, and then of course I wanted to get Hester away from him. Now I believe that he never
married her, and therefore we must make the best of him as Hester's husband.'

'You used to like him.'

'Yes;--and perhaps I shall again. But why on earth did he pay twenty thousand pounds to those
miscreants? That is what I could not get over. It was that which made me sure he was guilty.
It is that which still puzzles me so that I can hardly make up my mind to be quite sure that
he is innocent. But still we have to be sure. Perhaps the miracle will be explained some day.'

Chapter LXII

John Caldigate's Return

The carriage started with the old man in it as soon as the horses could be harnessed; but on
the Folking causeway it met the fly which was bringing John Caldigate to his home,--so that
the father and son greeted each other in the street amidst the eyes of the villagers. To them
it did not much matter, but the squire had certainly been right in saving Hester from so public
a demonstration of her feelings. The two men said hardly a word when they met, but stood there
for a moment grasping each other's hands. Then the driver of the fly was paid, and the carriage
was turned back to the house. 'Is she well?' asked Caldigate.

'She will be well now.'

'Has she been ill?'

'She has not been very happy, John, while you have been away from her.'

'And the boy?'

'He is all right. He has been spared the heart-breaking knowledge of the injury done to him.
It has been very bad with you, I suppose.'

'I do not like being in jail, sir. It was the length of the time before me that seemed to crush
me. I could not bring myself to believe that I should live to see the end of it.'

'The end has come, my boy,' said his father, again taking him by the hand, 'but the cruelty
of the thing remains. Had there been another trial as soon as the other evidence was obtained,
the struggle would have kept your heart up. It is damnable that a man in an office up in London
should have to decide on such a matter, and should be able to take his own time about it!'
The grievance was still at the old squire's heart in spite of the amenity of Mr. Brown's letter;
but John Caldigate, who was approaching his house and his wife, and to whom, after his imprisonment
even the flat fields and dykes were beautiful, did not at the moment much regard the anomaly
of the machinery by which he had been liberated.

Hester in the meantime had donned her silk dress, and had tied the gay bow round her baby's
frock, who was quite old enough to be astonished and charmed by the unusual finery in which
he was apparelled. Then she sat herself at the window of a bedroom which looked out on to the
gravel sweep, with her boy on her lap, and there she was determined to wait till the carriage
should come.

But she had hardly seated herself before she heard the wheels. 'He is here. He is coming. There
he is!' she said to the child. 'Look! look! It is papa.' But she stood back from the window
that she might not be seen. She had thought it out with many fluctuations as to the very spot
in which she would meet him. At one moment she had intended to go down to the gate, then to
the hall-door, and again she had determined that she would wait for him in the room in which
his breakfast was prepared for him. But she had ordered it otherwise at last. When she saw
the carriage approaching, she retreated back from the window, so that he should not even catch
a glimpse of her; but she had seen him as he sat, still holding his father's hand. Then she
ran back to her own chamber and gave her orders as she passed across the passage. 'Go down,
nurse, and tell him that I am here. Run quick, nurse; tell him to come at once.'

But he needed no telling. Whether he had divined her purpose, or whether it was natural to
him to fly like a bird to his nest, he rushed upstairs and was in the room almost before his
father had left the carriage She had the child in her hands when she heard him turn the lock
of the door; but before he entered the boy had been laid in his cradle,--and then she was in
his arms.

For the first few minutes she was quite collected, not saying much, but answering his questions
by a word or two. Oh yes; she was well; and baby was well,--quite well. He, too, looked well,
she said, though there was something of sadness in his face. 'But I will kiss that away,--so
soon, so soon.' She had always expected that he would come back long, long before the time
that had been named. She had been sure of it, she declared, because that it was impossible
that so great injustice should be done. But the last fortnight had been very long. When those
wicked people had been put in prison she had thought that then surely he would come. But now
he was there, with his arms round her, safe in his own home, and everything was well. Then
she lifted the baby up to be kissed again and again, and began to dance and spring in her joy.
Then, suddenly, she almost threw the child into his arms, and seated herself, covered her face
with her hands and began to sob with violence. When he asked her, with much embracing to compose
herself, sitting close to her, kissing her again and again, she shook her head as it lay upon
his shoulder, and then burst out into a fit of laughter. 'What does it matter,' she said after
a while, as he knelt at her knees;--'what does it matter? My boy's father has come back to
him. My boy has got his own name, and he is an honest true Caldigate; and no one again will
tell me that another woman owns my husband, my own husband, the father of my boy. It almost
killed me, John, when they said that you were not mine. And yet I knew that they said it falsely.
I never doubted for a moment. I knew that you were my own, and that my boy had a right to his
father's name. But it was hard to hear them say so, John. It was hard to bear when my mother
swore that it was so!'

At last they went down and found the old squire waiting for his breakfast. 'I should think,'
said he, 'that you would be glad to see a loaf of bread on a clean board again, and to know
that you may cut it as you please. Did they give you enough where you were?'

'I didn't think much about it, sir.'

'But you must think about it now,' said Hester. 'To please me you must like everything; your
tea, and your fresh eggs, and the butter and the cream. You must let yourself be spoilt for
a time just to compensate me for your absence.'

'You have made yourself smart to receive him at any rate,' said the squire, who had become
thoroughly used to the black gown which she had worn morning, noon, and evening while her husband
was away.

'Why should I not be smart,' she said, 'when my man has come to me? For whose eyes shall I
put on the raiment that is his own but for his? I was much lower than a widow in the eyes of
all men; but now I have got my husband back again. And my boy shall wear the very best that
he has, so that his father may see him smile at his own gaudiness. Yes, father, I may be smart
now. There were moments in which I thought that I might never wear more the pretty things which
he had given me.' Then she rose from her seat again, and hung on his neck, and wept and sobbed
till he feared that her heart-strings would break with joy.

So the morning passed away among them till about eleven o'clock, when the servant brought in
word that Mr. Holt and one or two other of the tenants wanted to see the young master. The
squire had been sitting alone in the back room so that the husband and wife might be left together;
but he had heard voices with which he was familiar, and he now came through to ask Hester whether
the visitors should be sent away for the present. But Hester would not have turned a dog from
the door which had been true to her husband through his troubles. 'Let them come,' she said.
'They have been so good to me, John, through it all! They have always known that baby was a
true Caldigate.'

Holt and the other farmers were shown into the room, and Holt as a matter of course became
the spokesman. When Caldigate had shaken hands with them all round, each muttering his word
of welcome, then Holt began: 'We wish you to know, squoire, that we, none of us, ain't been
comfortable in our minds here at Folking since that crawling villain Crinkett came and showed
himself at our young squire's christening.'

'That we ain't,' said Timothy Purvidge, another Netherden farmer.

'I haven't had much comfort since that day myself, Mr. Purvidge,' said Caldigate,--'not till
this morning.'

'Nor yet haven't none of us,' continued Mr. Holt, very impressively. 'We knowed as you had
done all right. We was as sure as the church tower. Lord love you, sir, when it was between
our young missus,--who'll excuse me for noticing these bright colours, and for saying how glad
I am to see her come out once again as our squire's wife should come out,--between her and
that bedangled woman as I seed in the court, it didn't take no one long to know what was the
truth!' The eloquence here was no doubt better than the argument, as Caldigate must have felt
when he remembered how fond he had once been of that 'bedangled woman.' Hester, who, though
she knew the whole story, did not at this moment join two and two together, thought that Mr.
Holt put the case uncommonly well. 'No! we knew,' he continued, with a wave of his hand. 'But
the jury weren't Netherden men,--nor yet Utterden, Mr. Halfacre,' he added, turning to a tenant
from the other parish. 'And they couldn't tell how it all was as we could. And there was that
judge, who would have believed any miscreant as could be got anywhere, to swear away a man's
liberty,--or his wife and family, which is a'most worse. We saw how it was to be when he first
looked out of his eye at the two post-office gents, and others who spoke up for the young squoire.
It was to be guilty. We know'd it. But it didn't any way change our minds. As to Crinkett and
Smith and them others, we saw that they were ruffians. We never doubted that. But we saw as
there was a bad time coming to you, Mr. John. Then we was unhappy; unhappy along of you, Mr.
John,--but a'most worse as to this dear lady and the boy.'

'My missus cried that you wouldn't have believed,' said Mr. Purvidge. '"If that's true," said
my missus, "she ain't nobody; and it's my belief she's as true a wife as ever stretched herself
aside her husband."' Then Hester bethought herself what present, of all presents, would be
most acceptable to Mrs. Purvidge, who was a red-faced, red-armed, hard-working old woman, peculiarly
famous for making cheeses.

'We all knew it,' said Mr. Holt, slapping his thigh with great energy. 'And now, in spite of
'em all, judge, jury, and lying witnesses,--the king has got his own again.' At this piece
of triumphant rhetoric there was a cheer from all the farmers. 'And so we have come to wish
you all joy, and particularly you, ma'am, with your boy. Things have been said of you, ma'am,
hard to bear, no doubt. But not a word of the kind at Folking, nor yet in Netherden;--nor yet
at Utterden, Mr. Halfacre. But all this is over, and we do hope that you, ma'am, and the young
squoire 'll live long, and the young 'un of all long after we are gone to our rest,--and that
you'll be as fond of Folking as Folking is of you. I can't say no fairer.' Then the tray was
brought in with wine, and everybody drank everybody's health, and there was another shaking
of hands all round. Mr. Purvidge, it was observed, drank the health of every separate member
of the family in a separate bumper, pressing the edge of the glass securely to his lips, and
then sending the whole contents down his throat at one throw with a chuck from his little finger.

The two Caldigates went out to see their friends as far as the gate, and while they were still
within the grounds there came a merry peal from the bells of Netherden church-tower. 'I knew
they'd be at it,' said Mr. Holt.

'And quite right too,' said Mr. Halfacre. 'We'd rung over at Utterden, only we've got nothing
but that little tinkling thing as is more fitter to swing round a bullock's neck than on a
church-top.'

'I told 'em as they should have beer,' said Mr. Brownby, whose house stood on Folking Causeway,
'and they shall have beer!' Mr. Brownby was a silent man, and added nothing to this one pertinent
remark.

'As to beer,' said Mr. Halfacre, 'we'd 'ave found the beer at Utterden. There wouldn't have
been no grudging the beer, Mr. Brownby, no more than there is in the lower parish; but you
can't get up a peal merely on beer. You've got to have bells.'

While they were still standing at the gate, Mr. Bromley the clergyman joined them, and walked
back towards the house with the two Caldigates. He, too, had come to offer his congratulations,
and to assure the released prisoner that he never believed the imputed guilt. But he would
not go into the house, surmising that on such a day the happy wife would not care to see many
visitors. But Caldigate asked him to take a turn about the grounds, being anxious to learn
something from the outside world. 'What do they say to it all at Babington?'

'I think they're a little divided.'

'My aunt has been against me, of course.'

'At first she was, I fancy. It was natural that people should believe till Shand came back.'

'Poor, dear old Dick. I must look after Dick. What about Julia?'

'Spretæ injuria formæ!' said Mr. Bromley. 'What were you to expect?'

'I'll forgive her. And Mr. Smirkie? I don't think Smirkie ever looked on me with favourable eyes.'

Then the clergyman was forced to own that Smirkie too had been among those who had believed
the woman's story. 'But you have to remember how natural it is that a man should think a verdict
to be right. In our country a wrong verdict is an uncommon occurrence. It requires close personal
acquaintance and much personal confidence to justify a man in supposing that twelve jurymen
should come to an erroneous decision. I thought that they were wrong. But still I knew that
I could hardly defend my opinion before the outside world.'

'It is all true,' said Caldigate; 'and I have made up my mind that I will be angry with no
one who will begin to believe me innocent from this day.'

His mind, however, was considerably exercised in regard to the Boltons, as to whom he feared
that they would not even yet allow themselves to be convinced. For his wife's happiness their
conversion was of infinitely more importance than that of all the outside world beyond. When
the gloom of the evening had come, she too came out and walked with him about the garden and
grounds with the professed object of showing him whatever little changes might have been made.
But the conversation soon fell back upon the last great incident of their joint lives.

'But your mother cannot refuse to believe what everybody now declares to be true,' he argued.

'Mamma is so strong in her feelings.'

'She must know they would not have let me out of prison in opposition to the verdict until
they were very sure of what they were doing.'

Then she told him all that had occurred between her and her mother since the trial,--how her
mother had come out to Folking and had implored her to return to Chesterton, and had then taken
herself away in dudgeon because she had not prevailed. 'But nothing would have made me leave
the place,' she said, 'after what they tried to do when I was there before. Except to go to
church, I have not once been outside the gate.'

'Your brothers will come round, I suppose. Robert has been very angry with me, I know. But
he is a man of the world and a man of sense.'

'We must take it as it will come, John. Of course it would be very much to me to have my father
and mother restored to me. It would be very much to know that my brothers were again my friends.
But when I remember how I prayed yesterday but for one thing, and that now, to-day, that one
thing has come to me;--how I have got that which, when I waked this morning, seemed to me to
be all the world to me, the want of which made my heart so sick that even my baby could not
make me glad, I feel that nothing ought now to make me unhappy. I have got you, John, and everything
else is nothing.' As he stooped in the dark to kiss her again among the rose-bushes, he felt
that it was almost worth his while to have been in prison.

After dinner there came a message to them across the ferry from Mr. Holt. Would they be so
good as to walk down to the edge of the great dike, opposite to Twopenny Farm, at nine o'clock?
As a part of the message, Mr. Holt sent word that at that hour the moon would be rising. Of
course they went down to the dike,--Mr. Caldigate, John Caldigate, and Hester there, outside
Mr. Holt's farmyard, just far enough to avoid danger to the hay-ricks and corn-stacks there
was blazing an enormous bonfire. All the rotten timber about the place and two or three tar-barrels
had been got together, and there were collected all the inhabitants of the two parishes. The
figures of the boys and girls and of the slow rustics with their wives could be seen moving
about indistinctly across the water by the fluttering flame of the bonfire. And their own figures,
too, were observed in the moonlight, and John Caldigate was welcomed back to his home by a
loud cheer from all his neighbours.

'I did not see much of it myself,' Mr. Holt said afterwards, 'because me and my missus was
busy among the stacks all the time, looking after the sparks. The bonfire might a' been too
big, you know.'

Chapter LXIII

How Mrs. Bolton Was Quite Conquered

Nearly a week passed over their heads at Puritan Grange before anything further was either
done or said, or even written, as to the return of John Caldigate to his own home and to his
own wife. In the meantime, both Mrs. Robert and Mrs. Daniel had gone out to Folking and made
visits of ceremony,--visits which were intended to signify their acknowledgment that Mrs. John
Caldigate was Mrs. John Caldigate. With Mrs. Daniel the matter was quite ceremonious and short.
Mrs. Robert suggested something as to a visit into Cambridge, saying that her husband would
be delighted if Hester and Mr. Caldigate would come and dine and sleep. Hester immediately
felt that something had been gained, but she declined the proposed visit for the present. 'We
have both of us,' she said, 'gone through so much, that we are not quite fit to go out anywhere
yet.' Mrs. Robert had hardly expected them to come, but she had observed her husband's behests.
So far there had been a family reconciliation during the first few days after the prisoner's
release; but no sign came from Mrs. Bolton; and Mr. Bolton, though he had given his orders,
was not at first urgent in requiring obedience to them. Then she received a letter from Hester.

    'DEAREST, DEAREST MAMMA,--Of course you know that my darling husband
    has come back to me. All I want now to make me quite happy is to
    have you once again as my own, own mother. Will you not send me a
    line to say that it shall all be as though these last long dreary
    months had never been;--so that I may go to you and show you my baby
    once again? And, dear mamma, say one word to me to let me know that
    you know that he is my husband. Tell papa to say so also.--Your most
    affectionate daughter,

    'HESTER CALDIGATE.'

Mrs. Bolton found this letter on the breakfast-table lying, as was usual with her letters,
close to her plate, and she read it without saying a word to her husband. Then she put it in
her pocket, and still did not say a word. Before the middle of the day she had almost made
up her mind that she would keep the letter entirely to herself. It was well, she thought, that
he had not seen it, and no good could be done by showing it to him. But he had been in the
breakfast-parlour before her, had seen the envelope, and had recognised the handwriting. They
were sitting together after lunch, and she was just about to open the book of sermons with
which, at that time, she was regaling him, when he stopped her with a question. 'What did Hester
say in her letter?'

Even those who intend to be truthful are sometimes surprised into a lie. 'What letter?' she
said. But she remembered herself at once, and knew that she could not afford to be detected
in a falsehood. 'That note from Hester? Yes;--I had a note this morning.'

'I know you had a note. What does she say?'

'She tells me that he--he has come back.'

'And what else? She was well aware that we knew that without her telling us.'

'She wants to come here.'

'Bid her come.'

