Baynes and Pitt similarly admitted the accuracy of the Captain's evidence, whereupon the scarlet
figure of the Lord Chief Justice heaved a sigh of relief.

"This being so, let us get on, in God's name; for we have much to do." There was now no trace
of gentleness in his voice. It was brisk and rasping, and the lips through which it passed
were curved in scorn. "I take it, Mr. Pollexfen, that the wicked treason of these three rogues
being established--indeed, admitted by them--there is no more to be said."

Peter Blood's voice rang out crisply, on a note that almost seemed to contain laughter.

"May it please your lordship, but there's a deal more to be said."

His lordship looked at him, first in blank amazement at his audacity, then gradually with an
expression of dull anger. The scarlet lips fell into unpleasant, cruel lines that transfigured
the whole countenance.

"How now, rogue? Would you waste our time with idle subterfuge?"

"I would have your lordship and the gentlemen of the jury hear me on my defence, as your lordship
promised that I should be heard."

"Why, so you shall, villain; so you shall." His lordship's voice was harsh as a file. He writhed
as he spoke, and for an instant his features were distorted. A delicate dead-white hand, on
which the veins showed blue, brought forth a handkerchief with which he dabbed his lips and
then his brow. Observing him with his physician's eye, Peter Blood judged him a prey to the
pain of the disease that was destroying him. "So you shall. But after the admission made, what
defence remains?"

"You shall judge, my lord."

"That is the purpose for which I sit here."

"And so shall you, gentlemen." Blood looked from judge to jury. The latter shifted uncomfortably
under the confident flash of his blue eyes. Lord Jeffreys's bullying charge had whipped the
spirit out of them. Had they, themselves, been prisoners accused of treason, he could not have
arraigned them more ferociously.

Peter Blood stood boldly forward, erect, self-possessed, and saturnine. He was freshly shaven,
and his periwig, if out of curl, was at least carefully combed and dressed.

"Captain Hobart has testified to what he knows--that he found me at Oglethorpe's Farm on the
Monday morning after the battle at Weston. But he has not told you what I did there."

Again the Judge broke in. "Why, what should you have been doing there in the company of rebels,
two of whom--Lord Gildoy and your fellow there--have already admitted their guilt?"

"That is what I beg leave to tell your lordship."

"I pray you do, and in God's name be brief, man. For if I am to be troubled with the say of
all you traitor dogs, I may sit here until the Spring Assizes."

"I was there, my lord, in my quality as a physician, to dress Lord Gildoy's wounds."

"What's this? Do you tell us that you are a physician?"

"A graduate of Trinity College, Dublin."

"Good God!" cried Lord Jeffreys, his voice suddenly swelling, his eyes upon the jury. "What
an impudent rogue is this! You heard the witness say that he had known him in Tangiers some
years ago, and that he was then an officer in the French service. You heard the prisoner admit
that the witness had spoken the truth?"

"Why, so he had. Yet what I am telling you is also true, so it is. For some years I was a soldier;
but before that I was a physician, and I have been one again since January last, established
in Bridgewater, as I can bring a hundred witnesses to prove."

"There's not the need to waste our time with that. I will convict you out of your own rascally
mouth. I will ask you only this: How came you, who represent yourself as a physician peacefully
following your calling in the town of Bridgewater, to be with the army of the Duke of Monmouth?"

"I was never with that army. No witness has sworn to that, and I dare swear that no witness
will. I never was attracted to the late rebellion. I regarded the adventure as a wicked madness.
I take leave to ask your lordship" (his brogue became more marked than ever) "what should I,
who was born and bred a papist, be doing in the army of the Protestant Champion?"

"A papist thou?" The judge gloomed on him a moment. "Art more like a snivelling, canting Jack
Presbyter. I tell you, man, I can smell a Presbyterian forty miles."

"Then I'll take leave to marvel that with so keen a nose your lordship can't smell a papist
at four paces."

There was a ripple of laughter in the galleries, instantly quelled by the fierce glare of the
Judge and the voice of the crier.

Lord Jeffreys leaned farther forward upon his desk. He raised that delicate white hand, still
clutching its handkerchief, and sprouting from a froth of lace.

"We'll leave your religion out of account for the moment, friend," said he. "But mark what
I say to you." With a minatory forefinger he beat the time of his words. "Know, friend, that
there is no religion a man can pretend to can give a countenance to lying. Thou hast a precious
immortal soul, and there is nothing in the world equal to it in value. Consider that the great
God of Heaven and Earth, before Whose tribunal thou and we and all persons are to stand at
the last day, will take vengeance on thee for every falsehood, and justly strike thee into
eternal flames, make thee drop into the bottomless pit of fire and brimstone, if thou offer
to deviate the least from the truth and nothing but the truth. For I tell thee God is not mocked.
On that I charge you to answer truthfully. How came you to be taken with these rebels?"

Peter Blood gaped at him a moment in consternation. The man was incredible, unreal, fantastic,
a nightmare judge. Then he collected himself to answer.

"I was summoned that morning to succour Lord Gildoy, and I conceived it to be the duty imposed
upon me by my calling to answer that summons."

"Did you so?" The Judge, terrible now of aspect--his face white, his twisted lips red as the
blood for which they thirsted--glared upon him in evil mockery. Then he controlled himself
as if by an effort. He sighed. He resumed his earlier gentle plaintiveness. "Lord! How you
waste our time. But I'll have patience with you. Who summoned you?"

"Master Pitt there, as he will testify."

"Oh! Master Pitt will testify--he that is himself a traitor self-confessed. Is that your witness?"

"There is also Master Baynes here, who can answer to it."

"Good Master Baynes will have to answer for himself; and I doubt not he'll be greatly exercised
to save his own neck from a halter. Come, come, sir; are these your only witnesses?"

"I could bring others from Bridgewater, who saw me set out that morning upon the crupper of
Master Pitt's horse."

His lordship smiled. "It will not be necessary. For, mark me, I do not intend to waste more
time on you. Answer me only this: When Master Pitt, as you pretend, came to summon you, did
you know that he had been, as you have heard him confess, of Monmouth's following?"

"I did, My lord."

"You did! Ha!" His lordship looked at the cringing jury and uttered a short, stabbing laugh.
"Yet in spite of that you went with him?"

"To succour a wounded man, as was my sacred duty."

"Thy sacred duty, sayest thou?" Fury blazed out of him again. "Good God! What a generation
of vipers do we live in! Thy sacred duty, rogue, is to thy King and to God. But let it pass.
Did he tell you whom it was that you were desired to succour?"

"Lord Gildoy--yes."

"And you knew that Lord Gildoy had been wounded in the battle, and on what side he fought?"

"I knew."

"And yet, being, as you would have us believe, a true and loyal subject of our Lord the King,
you went to succour him?"

Peter Blood lost patience for a moment. "My business, my lord, was with his wounds, not with
his politics."

A murmur from the galleries and even from the jury approved him. It served only to drive his
terrible judge into a deeper fury.

"Jesus God! Was there ever such an impudent villain in the world as thou?" He swung, white-faced,
to the jury. "I hope, gentlemen of the jury, you take notice of the horrible carriage of this
traitor rogue, and withal you cannot but observe the spirit of this sort of people, what a
villainous and devilish one it is. Out of his own mouth he has said enough to hang him a dozen
times. Yet is there more. Answer me this, sir: When you cozened Captain Hobart with your lies
concerning the station of this other traitor Pitt, what was your business then?"

"To save him from being hanged without trial, as was threatened."

"What concern was it of yours whether or how the wretch was hanged?"

"Justice is the concern of every loyal subject, for an injustice committed by one who holds
the King's commission is in some sense a dishonour to the King's majesty."

It was a shrewd, sharp thrust aimed at the jury, and it reveals, I think, the alertness of
the man's mind, his self-possession ever steadiest in moments of dire peril. With any other
jury it must have made the impression that he hoped to make. It may even have made its impression
upon these poor pusillanimous sheep. But the dread judge was there to efface it.

He gasped aloud, then flung himself violently forward.

"Lord of Heaven!" he stormed. "Was there ever such a canting, impudent rascal? But I have done
with you. I see thee, villain, I see thee already with a halter round thy neck."

Having spoken so, gloatingly, evilly, he sank back again, and composed himself. It was as if
a curtain fell. All emotion passed again from his pale face. Back to invest it again came that
gentle melancholy. Speaking after a moment's pause, his voice was soft, almost tender, yet
every word of it carried sharply through that hushed court.

"If I know my own heart it is not in my nature to desire the hurt of anybody, much less to
delight in his eternal perdition. It is out of compassion for you that I have used all these
words--because I would have you have some regard for your immortal soul, and not ensure its
damnation by obdurately persisting in falsehood and prevarication. But I see that all the pains
in the world, and all compassion and charity are lost upon you, and therefore I will say no
more to you." He turned again to the jury that countenance of wistful beauty. "Gentlemen, I
must tell you for law, of which we are the judges, and not you, that if any person be in actual
rebellion against the King, and another person--who really and actually was not in rebellion--does
knowingly receive, harbour, comfort, or succour him, such a person is as much a traitor as
he who indeed bore arms. We are bound by our oaths and consciences to declare to you what is
law; and you are bound by your oaths and your consciences to deliver and to declare to us by
your verdict the truth of the facts."

Upon that he proceeded to his summing-up, showing how Baynes and Blood were both guilty of
treason, the first for having harboured a traitor, the second for having succoured that traitor
by dressing his wounds. He interlarded his address by sycophantic allusions to his natural
lord and lawful sovereign, the King, whom God had set over them, and with vituperations of
Nonconformity and of Monmouth, of whom--in his own words--he dared boldly affirm that the meanest
subject within the kingdom that was of legitimate birth had a better title to the crown. "Jesus
God! That ever we should have such a generation of vipers among us," he burst out in rhetorical
frenzy. And then he sank back as if exhausted by the violence he had used. A moment he was
still, dabbing his lips again; then he moved uneasily; once more his features were twisted
by pain, and in a few snarling, almost incoherent words he dismissed the jury to consider the
verdict.

Peter Blood had listened to the intemperate, the blasphemous, and almost obscene invective
of that tirade with a detachment that afterwards, in retrospect, surprised him. He was so amazed
by the man, by the reactions taking place in him between mind and body, and by his methods
of bullying and coercing the jury into bloodshed, that he almost forgot that his own life was
at stake.

The absence of that dazed jury was a brief one. The verdict found the three prisoners guilty.
Peter Blood looked round the scarlet-hung court. For an instant that foam of white faces seemed
to heave before him. Then he was himself again, and a voice was asking him what he had to say
for himself, why sentence of death should not be passed upon him, being convicted of high treason.

He laughed, and his laugh jarred uncannily upon the deathly stillness of the court. It was
all so grotesque, such a mockery of justice administered by that wistful-eyed jack-pudding
in scarlet, who was himself a mockery--the venal instrument of a brutally spiteful and vindictive
king. His laughter shocked the austerity of that same jack-pudding.

"Do you laugh, sirrah, with the rope about your neck, upon the very threshold of that eternity
you are so suddenly to enter into?"

And then Blood took his revenge.

"Faith, it's in better case I am for mirth than your lordship. For I have this to say before
you deliver judgment. Your lordship sees me--an innocent man whose only offence is that I practised
charity--with a halter round my neck. Your lordship, being the justiciar, speaks with knowledge
of what is to come to me. I, being a physician, may speak with knowledge of what is to come
to your lordship. And I tell you that I would not now change places with you--that I would
not exchange this halter that you fling about my neck for the stone that you carry in your
body. The death to which you may doom me is a light pleasantry by contrast with the death to
which your lordship has been doomed by that Great Judge with whose name your lordship makes
so free."

The Lord Chief Justice sat stiffly upright, his face ashen, his lips twitching, and whilst
you might have counted ten there was no sound in that paralyzed court after Peter Blood had
finished speaking. All those who knew Lord Jeffreys regarded this as the lull before the storm,
and braced themselves for the explosion. But none came.

Slowly, faintly, the colour crept back into that ashen face. The scarlet figure lost its rigidity,
and bent forward. His lordship began to speak. In a muted voice and briefly--much more briefly
than his wont on such occasions and in a manner entirely mechanical, the manner of a man whose
thoughts are elsewhere while his lips are speaking--he delivered sentence of death in the prescribed
form, and without the least allusion to what Peter Blood had said. Having delivered it, he
sank back exhausted, his eyes half-closed, his brow agleam with sweat.

The prisoners filed out.

Mr. Pollexfen--a Whig at heart despite the position of Judge-Advocate which he occupied--was
overheard by one of the jurors to mutter in the ear of a brother counsel:

"On my soul, that swarthy rascal has given his lordship a scare. It's a pity he must hang.
For a man who can frighten Jeffreys should go far."

CHAPTER IV. HUMAN MERCHANDISE

Mr. Pollexfen was at one and the same time right and wrong--a condition much more common than
is generally supposed.

He was right in his indifferently expressed thought that a man whose mien and words could daunt
such a lord of terror as Jeffreys, should by the dominance of his nature be able to fashion
himself a considerable destiny. He was wrong--though justifiably so--in his assumption that
Peter Blood must hang.

I have said that the tribulations with which he was visited as a result of his errand of mercy
to Oglethorpe's Farm contained--although as yet he did not perceive it, perhaps--two sources
of thankfulness: one that he was tried at all; the other that his trial took place on the 19th
of September. Until the 18th, the sentences passed by the court of the Lords Commissioners
had been carried out literally and expeditiously. But on the morning of the 19th there arrived
at Taunton a courier from Lord Sunderland, the Secretary of State, with a letter for Lord Jeffreys
wherein he was informed that His Majesty had been graciously pleased to command that eleven
hundred rebels should be furnished for transportation to some of His Majesty's southern plantations,
Jamaica, Barbados, or any of the Leeward Islands.

You are not to suppose that this command was dictated by any sense of mercy. Lord Churchill
was no more than just when he spoke of the King's heart as being as insensible as marble. It
had been realized that in these wholesale hangings there was taking place a reckless waste
of valuable material. Slaves were urgently required in the plantations, and a healthy, vigorous
man could be reckoned worth at least from ten to fifteen pounds. Then, there were at court
many gentlemen who had some claim or other upon His Majesty's bounty. Here was a cheap and
ready way to discharge these claims. From amongst the convicted rebels a certain number might
be set aside to be bestowed upon those gentlemen, so that they might dispose of them to their
own profit.

My Lord Sunderland's letter gives precise details of the royal munificence in human flesh.
A thousand prisoners were to be distributed among some eight courtiers and others, whilst a
postscriptum to his lordship's letter asked for a further hundred to be held at the disposal
of the Queen. These prisoners were to be transported at once to His Majesty's southern plantations,
and to be kept there for the space of ten years before being restored to liberty, the parties
to whom they were assigned entering into security to see that transportation was immediately
effected.

We know from Lord Jeffreys's secretary how the Chief Justice inveighed that night in drunken
frenzy against this misplaced clemency to which His Majesty had been persuaded. We know how
he attempted by letter to induce the King to reconsider his decision. But James adhered to
it. It was--apart from the indirect profit he derived from it--a clemency full worthy of him.
He knew that to spare lives in this fashion was to convert them into living deaths. Many must
succumb in torment to the horrors of West Indian slavery, and so be the envy of their surviving
companions.

Thus it happened that Peter Blood, and with him Jeremy Pitt and Andrew Baynes, instead of being
hanged, drawn, and quartered as their sentences directed, were conveyed to Bristol and there
shipped with some fifty others aboard the Jamaica Merchant. From close confinement under hatches,
ill-nourishment and foul water, a sickness broke out amongst them, of which eleven died. Amongst
these was the unfortunate yeoman from Oglethorpe's Farm, brutally torn from his quiet homestead
amid the fragrant cider orchards for no other sin but that he had practised mercy.

The mortality might have been higher than it was but for Peter Blood. At first the master of
the Jamaica Merchant had answered with oaths and threats the doctor's expostulations against
permitting men to perish in this fashion, and his insistence that he should be made free of
the medicine chest and given leave to minister to the sick. But presently Captain Gardner came
to see that he might be brought to task for these too heavy losses of human merchandise and
because of this he was belatedly glad to avail himself of the skill of Peter Blood. The doctor
went to work zealously and zestfully, and wrought so ably that, by his ministrations and by
improving the condition of his fellow-captives, he checked the spread of the disease.

Towards the middle of December the Jamaica Merchant dropped anchor in Carlisle Bay, and put
ashore the forty-two surviving rebels-convict.

If these unfortunates had imagined--as many of them appear to have done--that they were coming
into some wild, savage country, the prospect, of which they had a glimpse before they were
hustled over the ship's side into the waiting boats, was enough to correct the impression.
They beheld a town of sufficiently imposing proportions composed of houses built upon European
notions of architecture, but without any of the huddle usual in European cities. The spire
of a church rose dominantly above the red roofs, a fort guarded the entrance of the wide harbour,
with guns thrusting their muzzles between the crenels, and the wide facade of Government House
revealed itself dominantly placed on a gentle hill above the town. This hill was vividly green
as is an English hill in April, and the day was such a day as April gives to England, the season
of heavy rains being newly ended.

On a wide cobbled space on the sea front they found a guard of red-coated militia drawn up
to receive them, and a crowd--attracted by their arrival--which in dress and manner differed
little from a crowd in a seaport at home save that it contained fewer women and a great number
of negroes.

To inspect them, drawn up there on the mole, came Governor Steed, a short, stout, red-faced
gentleman, in blue taffetas burdened by a prodigious amount of gold lace, who limped a little
and leaned heavily upon a stout ebony cane. After him, in the uniform of a colonel of the Barbados
Militia, rolled a tall, corpulent man who towered head and shoulders above the Governor, with
malevolence plainly written on his enormous yellowish countenance. At his side, and contrasting
oddly with his grossness, moving with an easy stripling grace, came a slight young lady in
a modish riding-gown. The broad brim of a grey hat with scarlet sweep of ostrich plume shaded
an oval face upon which the climate of the Tropic of Cancer had made no impression, so delicately
fair was its complexion. Ringlets of red-brown hair hung to her shoulders. Frankness looked
out from her hazel eyes which were set wide; commiseration repressed now the mischievousness
that normally inhabited her fresh young mouth.

Peter Blood caught himself staring in a sort of amazement at that piquant face, which seemed
here so out of place, and finding his stare returned, he shifted uncomfortably. He grew conscious
of the sorry figure that he cut. Unwashed, with rank and matted hair and a disfiguring black
beard upon his face, and the erstwhile splendid suit of black camlet in which he had been taken
prisoner now reduced to rags that would have disgraced a scarecrow, he was in no case for inspection
by such dainty eyes as these. Nevertheless, they continued to inspect him with round-eyed,
almost childlike wonder and pity. Their owner put forth a hand to touch the scarlet sleeve
of her companion, whereupon with an ill-tempered grunt the man swung his great bulk round so
that he directly confronted her.

Looking up into his face, she was speaking to him earnestly, but the Colonel plainly gave her
no more than the half of his attention. His little beady eyes, closely flanking a fleshly,
pendulous nose, had passed from her and were fixed upon fair-haired, sturdy young Pitt, who
was standing beside Blood.

The Governor had also come to a halt, and for a moment now that little group of three stood
in conversation. What the lady said, Peter could not hear at all, for she lowered her voice;
the Colonel's reached him in a confused rumble, but the Governor was neither considerate nor
indistinct; he had a high-pitched voice which carried far, and believing himself witty, he
desired to be heard by all.

"But, my dear Colonel Bishop, it is for you to take first choice from this dainty nosegay,
and at your own price. After that we'll send the rest to auction."

Colonel Bishop nodded his acknowledgment. He raised his voice in answering. "Your excellency
is very good. But, faith, they're a weedy lot, not likely to be of much value in the plantation."
His beady eyes scanned them again, and his contempt of them deepened the malevolence of his
face. It was as if he were annoyed with them for being in no better condition. Then he beckoned
forward Captain Gardner, the master of the Jamaica Merchant, and for some minutes stood in
talk with him over a list which the latter produced at his request.

Presently he waved aside the list and advanced alone towards the rebels-convict, his eyes considering
them, his lips pursed. Before the young Somersetshire shipmaster he came to a halt, and stood
an instant pondering him. Then he fingered the muscles of the young man's arm, and bade him
open his mouth that he might see his teeth. He pursed his coarse lips again and nodded.

He spoke to Gardner over his shoulder.

"Fifteen pounds for this one."

The Captain made a face of dismay. "Fifteen pounds! It isn't half what I meant to ask for him."

"It is double what I had meant to give," grunted the Colonel.

"But he would be cheap at thirty pounds, your honour."

"I can get a negro for that. These white swine don't live. They're not fit for the labour."

Gardner broke into protestations of Pitt's health, youth, and vigour. It was not a man he was
discussing; it was a beast of burden. Pitt, a sensitive lad, stood mute and unmoving. Only
the ebb and flow of colour in his cheeks showed the inward struggle by which he maintained
his self-control.

Peter Blood was nauseated by the loathsome haggle.

In the background, moving slowly away down the line of prisoners, went the lady in conversation
with the Governor, who smirked and preened himself as he limped beside her. She was unconscious
of the loathly business the Colonel was transacting. Was she, wondered Blood, indifferent to it?

Colonel Bishop swung on his heel to pass on.

"I'll go as far as twenty pounds. Not a penny more, and it's twice as much as you are like
to get from Crabston."

Captain Gardner, recognizing the finality of the tone, sighed and yielded. Already Bishop was
moving down the line. For Mr. Blood, as for a weedy youth on his left, the Colonel had no more
than a glance of contempt. But the next man, a middle-aged Colossus named Wolverstone, who
had lost an eye at Sedgemoor, drew his regard, and the haggling was recommenced.

Peter Blood stood there in the brilliant sunshine and inhaled the fragrant air, which was unlike
any air that he had ever breathed. It was laden with a strange perfume, blend of logwood flower,
pimento, and aromatic cedars. He lost himself in unprofitable speculations born of that singular
fragrance. He was in no mood for conversation, nor was Pitt, who stood dumbly at his side,
and who was afflicted mainly at the moment by the thought that he was at last about to be separated
from this man with whom he had stood shoulder to shoulder throughout all these troublous months,
and whom he had come to love and depend upon for guidance and sustenance. A sense of loneliness
and misery pervaded him by contrast with which all that he had endured seemed as nothing. To
Pitt, this separation was the poignant climax of all his sufferings.

Other buyers came and stared at them, and passed on. Blood did not heed them. And then at the
end of the line there was a movement. Gardner was speaking in a loud voice, making an announcement
to the general public of buyers that had waited until Colonel Bishop had taken his choice of
that human merchandise. As he finished, Blood, looking in his direction, noticed that the girl
was speaking to Bishop, and pointing up the line with a silver-hilted riding-whip she carried.
Bishop shaded his eyes with his hand to look in the direction in which she was pointing. Then
slowly, with his ponderous, rolling gait, he approached again accompanied by Gardner, and followed
by the lady and the Governor.

On they came until the Colonel was abreast of Blood. He would have passed on, but that the
lady tapped his arm with her whip.

"But this is the man I meant," she said.

"This one?" Contempt rang in the voice. Peter Blood found himself staring into a pair of beady
brown eyes sunk into a yellow, fleshly face like currants into a dumpling. He felt the colour
creeping into his face under the insult of that contemptuous inspection. "Bah! A bag of bones.
What should I do with him?"

He was turning away when Gardner interposed.

"He maybe lean, but he's tough; tough and healthy. When half of them was sick and the other
half sickening, this rogue kept his legs and doctored his fellows. But for him there'd ha'
been more deaths than there was. Say fifteen pounds for him, Colonel. That's cheap enough.
He's tough, I tell your honour--tough and strong, though he be lean. And he's just the man
to bear the heat when it comes. The climate'll never kill him."

There came a chuckle from Governor Steed. "You hear, Colonel. Trust your niece. Her sex knows
a man when it sees one." And he laughed, well pleased with his wit.

But he laughed alone. A cloud of annoyance swept across the face of the Colonel's niece, whilst
the Colonel himself was too absorbed in the consideration of this bargain to heed the Governor's
humour. He twisted his lip a little, stroking his chin with his hand the while. Jeremy Pitt
had almost ceased to breathe.

"I'll give you ten pounds for him," said the Colonel at last.

Peter Blood prayed that the offer might be rejected. For no reason that he could have given
you, he was taken with repugnance at the thought of becoming the property of this gross animal,
and in some sort the property of that hazel-eyed young girl. But it would need more than repugnance
to save him from his destiny. A slave is a slave, and has no power to shape his fate. Peter
Blood was sold to Colonel Bishop--a disdainful buyer--for the ignominious sum of ten pounds.

CHAPTER V. ARABELLA BISHOP

One sunny morning in January, about a month after the arrival of the Jamaica Merchant at Bridgetown,
Miss Arabella Bishop rode out from her uncle's fine house on the heights to the northwest of
the city. She was attended by two negroes who trotted after her at a respectful distance, and
her destination was Government House, whither she went to visit the Governor's lady, who had
lately been ailing. Reaching the summit of a gentle, grassy slope, she met a tall, lean man
dressed in a sober, gentlemanly fashion, who was walking in the opposite direction. He was
a stranger to her, and strangers were rare enough in the island. And yet in some vague way
he did not seem quite a stranger.

Miss Arabella drew rein, affecting to pause that she might admire the prospect, which was fair
enough to warrant it. Yet out of the corner of those hazel eyes she scanned this fellow very
attentively as he came nearer. She corrected her first impression of his dress. It was sober
enough, but hardly gentlemanly. Coat and breeches were of plain homespun; and if the former
sat so well upon him it was more by virtue of his natural grace than by that of tailoring.
His stockings were of cotton, harsh and plain, and the broad castor, which he respectfully
doffed as he came up with her, was an old one unadorned by band or feather. What had seemed
to be a periwig at a little distance was now revealed for the man's own lustrous coiling black
hair.

Out of a brown, shaven, saturnine face two eyes that were startlingly blue considered her gravely.
The man would have passed on but that she detained him.

"I think I know you, sir," said she.

Her voice was crisp and boyish, and there was something of boyishness in her manner--if one
can apply the term to so dainty a lady. It arose perhaps from an ease, a directness, which
disdained the artifices of her sex, and set her on good terms with all the world. To this it
may be due that Miss Arabella had reached the age of five and twenty not merely unmarried but
unwooed. She used with all men a sisterly frankness which in itself contains a quality of aloofness,
rendering it difficult for any man to become her lover.

Her negroes had halted at some distance in the rear, and they squatted now upon the short grass
until it should be her pleasure to proceed upon her way.

The stranger came to a standstill upon being addressed.

"A lady should know her own property," said he.

"My property?"

"Your uncle's, leastways. Let me present myself. I am called Peter Blood, and I am worth precisely
ten pounds. I know it because that is the sum your uncle paid for me. It is not every man has
the same opportunities of ascertaining his real value."

She recognized him then. She had not seen him since that day upon the mole a month ago, and
that she should not instantly have known him again despite the interest he had then aroused
in her is not surprising, considering the change he had wrought in his appearance, which now
was hardly that of a slave.

"My God!" said she. "And you can laugh!"

"It's an achievement," he admitted. "But then, I have not fared as ill as I might."

"I have heard of that," said she.

What she had heard was that this rebel-convict had been discovered to be a physician. The thing
had come to the ears of Governor Steed, who suffered damnably from the gout, and Governor Steed
had borrowed the fellow from his purchaser. Whether by skill or good fortune, Peter Blood had
afforded the Governor that relief which his excellency had failed to obtain from the ministrations
of either of the two physicians practising in Bridgetown. Then the Governor's lady had desired
him to attend her for the megrims. Mr. Blood had found her suffering from nothing worse than
peevishness--the result of a natural petulance aggravated by the dulness of life in Barbados
to a lady of her social aspirations. But he had prescribed for her none the less, and she had
conceived herself the better for his prescription. After that the fame of him had gone through
Bridgetown, and Colonel Bishop had found that there was more profit to be made out of this
new slave by leaving him to pursue his profession than by setting him to work on the plantations,
for which purpose he had been originally acquired.

"It is yourself, madam, I have to thank for my comparatively easy and clean condition," said
Mr. Blood, "and I am glad to take this opportunity of doing so."

The gratitude was in his words rather than in his tone. Was he mocking, she wondered, and looked
at him with the searching frankness that another might have found disconcerting. He took the
glance for a question, and answered it.

"If some other planter had bought me," he explained, "it is odds that the facts of my shining
abilities might never have been brought to light, and I should be hewing and hoeing at this
moment like the poor wretches who were landed with me."

"And why do you thank me for that? It was my uncle who bought you."

"But he would not have done so had you not urged him. I perceived your interest. At the time
I resented it."

"You resented it?" There was a challenge in her boyish voice.

"I have had no lack of experiences of this mortal life; but to be bought and sold was a new
one, and I was hardly in the mood to love my purchaser."

"If I urged you upon my uncle, sir, it was that I commiserated you." There was a slight severity
in her tone, as if to reprove the mixture of mockery and flippancy in which he seemed to be
speaking.

She proceeded to explain herself. "My uncle may appear to you a hard man. No doubt he is. They
are all hard men, these planters. It is the life, I suppose. But there are others here who
are worse. There is Mr. Crabston, for instance, up at Speightstown. He was there on the mole,
waiting to buy my uncle's leavings, and if you had fallen into his hands... A dreadful man.
That is why."

He was a little bewildered.

"This interest in a stranger..." he began. Then changed the direction of his probe. "But there
were others as deserving of commiseration."

"You did not seem quite like the others."

"I am not," said he.

"Oh!" She stared at him, bridling a little. "You have a good opinion of yourself."

"On the contrary. The others are all worthy rebels. I am not. That is the difference. I was
one who had not the wit to see that England requires purifying. I was content to pursue a doctor's
trade in Bridgewater whilst my betters were shedding their blood to drive out an unclean tyrant
and his rascally crew."

"Sir!" she checked him. "I think you are talking treason."

"I hope I am not obscure," said he.

"There are those here who would have you flogged if they heard you."

"The Governor would never allow it. He has the gout, and his lady has the megrims."

"Do you depend upon that?" She was frankly scornful.

"You have certainly never had the gout; probably not even the megrims," said he.

She made a little impatient movement with her hand, and looked away from him a moment, out
to sea. Quite suddenly she looked at him again; and now her brows were knit.

"But if you are not a rebel, how come you here?"

He saw the thing she apprehended, and he laughed. "Faith, now, it's a long story," said he.

"And one perhaps that you would prefer not to tell?"

Briefly on that he told it her.

"My God! What an infamy!" she cried, when he had done.

"Oh, it's a sweet country England under King James! There's no need to commiserate me further.
All things considered I prefer Barbados. Here at least one can believe in God."

He looked first to right, then to left as he spoke, from the distant shadowy bulk of Mount
Hillbay to the limitless ocean ruffled by the winds of heaven. Then, as if the fair prospect
rendered him conscious of his own littleness and the insignificance of his woes, he fell thoughtful.

"Is that so difficult elsewhere?" she asked him, and she was very grave.

"Men make it so."

"I see." She laughed a little, on a note of sadness, it seemed to him. "I have never deemed
Barbados the earthly mirror of heaven," she confessed. "But no doubt you know your world better
than I." She touched her horse with her little silver-hilted whip. "I congratulate you on this
easing of your misfortunes."

He bowed, and she moved on. Her negroes sprang up, and went trotting after her.

Awhile Peter Blood remained standing there, where she left him, conning the sunlit waters of
Carlisle Bay below, and the shipping in that spacious haven about which the gulls were fluttering
noisily.

It was a fair enough prospect, he reflected, but it was a prison, and in announcing that he
preferred it to England, he had indulged that almost laudable form of boasting which lies in
belittling our misadventures.

He turned, and resuming his way, went off in long, swinging strides towards the little huddle
of huts built of mud and wattles--a miniature village enclosed in a stockade which the plantation
slaves inhabited, and where he, himself, was lodged with them.

But he gave it a fresh meaning, the very converse of that which its author had intended. A
prison, he reflected, was a prison, though it had neither walls nor bars, however spacious
it might be. And as he realized it that morning so he was to realize it increasingly as time
sped on. Daily he came to think more of his clipped wings, of his exclusion from the world,
and less of the fortuitous liberty he enjoyed. Nor did the contrasting of his comparatively
easy lot with that of his unfortunate fellow-convicts bring him the satisfaction a differently
constituted mind might have derived from it. Rather did the contemplation of their misery increase
the bitterness that was gathering in his soul.

Of the forty-two who had been landed with him from the Jamaica Merchant, Colonel Bishop had
purchased no less than twenty-five. The remainder had gone to lesser planters, some of them
to Speightstown, and others still farther north. What may have been the lot of the latter he
could not tell, but amongst Bishop's slaves Peter Blood came and went freely, sleeping in their
quarters, and their lot he knew to be a brutalizing misery. They toiled in the sugar plantations
from sunrise to sunset, and if their labours flagged, there were the whips of the overseer
and his men to quicken them. They went in rags, some almost naked; they dwelt in squalor, and
they were ill-nourished on salted meat and maize dumplings--food which to many of them was
for a season at least so nauseating that two of them sickened and died before Bishop remembered
that their lives had a certain value in labour to him and yielded to Blood's intercessions
for a better care of such as fell ill. To curb insubordination, one of them who had rebelled
against Kent, the brutal overseer, was lashed to death by negroes under his comrades' eyes,
and another who had been so misguided as to run away into the woods was tracked, brought back,
flogged, and then branded on the forehead with the letters "F. T.," that all might know him
for a fugitive traitor as long as he lived. Fortunately for him the poor fellow died as a consequence
of the flogging.

After that a dull, spiritless resignation settled down upon the remainder. The most mutinous
were quelled, and accepted their unspeakable lot with the tragic fortitude of despair.

Peter Blood alone, escaping these excessive sufferings, remained outwardly unchanged, whilst
inwardly the only change in him was a daily deeper hatred of his kind, a daily deeper longing
to escape from this place where man defiled so foully the lovely work of his Creator. It was
a longing too vague to amount to a hope. Hope here was inadmissible. And yet he did not yield
to despair. He set a mask of laughter on his saturnine countenance and went his way, treating
the sick to the profit of Colonel Bishop, and encroaching further and further upon the preserves
of the two other men of medicine in Bridgetown.

Immune from the degrading punishments and privations of his fellow-convicts, he was enabled
to keep his self-respect, and was treated without harshness even by the soulless planter to
whom he had been sold. He owed it all to gout and megrims. He had won the esteem of Governor
Steed, and--what is even more important--of Governor Steed's lady, whom he shamelessly and
cynically flattered and humoured.

Occasionally he saw Miss Bishop, and they seldom met but that she paused to hold him in conversation
for some moments, evincing her interest in him. Himself, he was never disposed to linger. He
was not, he told himself, to be deceived by her delicate exterior, her sapling grace, her easy,
boyish ways and pleasant, boyish voice. In all his life--and it had been very varied--he had
never met a man whom he accounted more beastly than her uncle, and he could not dissociate
her from the man. She was his niece, of his own blood, and some of the vices of it, some of
the remorseless cruelty of the wealthy planter must, he argued, inhabit that pleasant body
of hers. He argued this very often to himself, as if answering and convincing some instinct
that pleaded otherwise, and arguing it he avoided her when it was possible, and was frigidly
civil when it was not.

Justifiable as his reasoning was, plausible as it may seem, yet he would have done better to
have trusted the instinct that was in conflict with it. Though the same blood ran in her veins
as in those of Colonel Bishop, yet hers was free of the vices that tainted her uncle's, for
these vices were not natural to that blood; they were, in his case, acquired. Her father, Tom
Bishop--that same Colonel Bishop's brother--had been a kindly, chivalrous, gentle soul, who,
broken-hearted by the early death of a young wife, had abandoned the Old World and sought an
anodyne for his grief in the New. He had come out to the Antilles, bringing with him his little
daughter, then five years of age, and had given himself up to the life of a planter. He had
prospered from the first, as men sometimes will who care nothing for prosperity. Prospering,
he had bethought him of his younger brother, a soldier at home reputed somewhat wild. He had
advised him to come out to Barbados; and the advice, which at another season William Bishop
might have scorned, reached him at a moment when his wildness was beginning to bear such fruit
that a change of climate was desirable. William came, and was admitted by his generous brother
to a partnership in the prosperous plantation. Some six years later, when Arabella was fifteen,
her father died, leaving her in her uncle's guardianship. It was perhaps his one mistake. But
the goodness of his own nature coloured his views of other men; moreover, himself, he had conducted
the education of his daughter, giving her an independence of character upon which perhaps he
counted unduly. As things were, there was little love between uncle and niece. But she was
dutiful to him, and he was circumspect in his behaviour before her. All his life, and for all
his wildness, he had gone in a certain awe of his brother, whose worth he had the wit to recognize;
and now it was almost as if some of that awe was transferred to his brother's child, who was
also, in a sense, his partner, although she took no active part in the business of the plantations.

Peter Blood judged her--as we are all too prone to judge--upon insufficient knowledge.

He was very soon to have cause to correct that judgment. One day towards the end of May, when
the heat was beginning to grow oppressive, there crawled into Carlisle Bay a wounded, battered
English ship, the Pride of Devon, her freeboard scarred and broken, her coach a gaping wreck,
her mizzen so shot away that only a jagged stump remained to tell the place where it had stood.
She had been in action off Martinique with two Spanish treasure ships, and although her captain
swore that the Spaniards had beset him without provocation, it is difficult to avoid a suspicion
that the encounter had been brought about quite otherwise. One of the Spaniards had fled from
the combat, and if the Pride of Devon had not given chase it was probably because she was by
then in no case to do so. The other had been sunk, but not before the English ship had transferred
to her own hold a good deal of the treasure aboard the Spaniard. It was, in fact, one of those
piratical affrays which were a perpetual source of trouble between the courts of St. James's
and the Escurial, complaints emanating now from one and now from the other side.

Steed, however, after the fashion of most Colonial governors, was willing enough to dull his
wits to the extent of accepting the English seaman's story, disregarding any evidence that
might belie it. He shared the hatred so richly deserved by arrogant, overbearing Spain that
was common to men of every other nation from the Bahamas to the Main. Therefore he gave the
Pride of Devon the shelter she sought in his harbour and every facility to careen and carry
out repairs.

But before it came to this, they fetched from her hold over a score of English seamen as battered
and broken as the ship herself, and together with these some half-dozen Spaniards in like case,
the only survivors of a boarding party from the Spanish galleon that had invaded the English
ship and found itself unable to retreat. These wounded men were conveyed to a long shed on
the wharf, and the medical skill of Bridgetown was summoned to their aid. Peter Blood was ordered
to bear a hand in this work, and partly because he spoke Castilian--and he spoke it as fluently
as his own native tongue--partly because of his inferior condition as a slave, he was given
the Spaniards for his patients.

Now Blood had no cause to love Spaniards. His two years in a Spanish prison and his subsequent
campaigning in the Spanish Netherlands had shown him a side of the Spanish character which
he had found anything but admirable. Nevertheless he performed his doctor's duties zealously
and painstakingly, if emotionlessly, and even with a certain superficial friendliness towards
each of his patients. These were so surprised at having their wounds healed instead of being
summarily hanged that they manifested a docility very unusual in their kind. They were shunned,
however, by all those charitably disposed inhabitants of Bridgetown who flocked to the improvised
hospital with gifts of fruit and flowers and delicacies for the injured English seamen. Indeed,
had the wishes of some of these inhabitants been regarded, the Spaniards would have been left
to die like vermin, and of this Peter Blood had an example almost at the very outset.

With the assistance of one of the negroes sent to the shed for the purpose, he was in the act
of setting a broken leg, when a deep, gruff voice, that he had come to know and dislike as
he had never disliked the voice of living man, abruptly challenged him.

"What are you doing there?"

Blood did not look up from his task. There was not the need. He knew the voice, as I have said.

"I am setting a broken leg," he answered, without pausing in his labours.

"I can see that, fool." A bulky body interposed between Peter Blood and the window. The half-naked
man on the straw rolled his black eyes to stare up fearfully out of a clay-coloured face at
this intruder. A knowledge of English was unnecessary to inform him that here came an enemy.
The harsh, minatory note of that voice sufficiently expressed the fact. "I can see that, fool;
just as I can see what the rascal is. Who gave you leave to set Spanish legs?"

"I am a doctor, Colonel Bishop. The man is wounded. It is not for me to discriminate. I keep
to my trade."

"Do you, by God! If you'd done that, you wouldn't now be here."

"On the contrary, it is because I did it that I am here."

"Aye, I know that's your lying tale." The Colonel sneered; and then, observing Blood to continue
his work unmoved, he grew really angry. "Will you cease that, and attend to me when I am speaking?"

Peter Blood paused, but only for an instant. "The man is in pain," he said shortly, and resumed
his work.

"In pain, is he? I hope he is, the damned piratical dog. But will you heed me, you insubordinate
knave?"

The Colonel delivered himself in a roar, infuriated by what he conceived to be defiance, and
defiance expressing itself in the most unruffled disregard of himself. His long bamboo cane
was raised to strike. Peter Blood's blue eyes caught the flash of it, and he spoke quickly
to arrest the blow.

"Not insubordinate, sir, whatever I may be. I am acting upon the express orders of Governor Steed."

The Colonel checked, his great face empurpling. His mouth fell open.

"Governor Steed!" he echoed. Then he lowered his cane, swung round, and without another word
to Blood rolled away towards the other end of the shed where the Governor was standing at the
moment.

Peter Blood chuckled. But his triumph was dictated less by humanitarian considerations than
by the reflection that he had baulked his brutal owner.

The Spaniard, realizing that in this altercation, whatever its nature, the doctor had stood
his friend, ventured in a muted voice to ask him what had happened. But the doctor shook his
head in silence, and pursued his work. His ears were straining to catch the words now passing
between Steed and Bishop. The Colonel was blustering and storming, the great bulk of him towering
above the wizened little overdressed figure of the Governor. But the little fop was not to
be browbeaten. His excellency was conscious that he had behind him the force of public opinion
to support him. Some there might be, but they were not many, who held such ruthless views as
Colonel Bishop. His excellency asserted his authority. It was by his orders that Blood had
devoted himself to the wounded Spaniards, and his orders were to be carried out. There was
no more to be said.

Colonel Bishop was of another opinion. In his view there was a great deal to be said. He said
it, with great circumstance, loudly, vehemently, obscenely--for he could be fluently obscene
when moved to anger.

"You talk like a Spaniard, Colonel," said the Governor, and thus dealt the Colonel's pride
a wound that was to smart resentfully for many a week. At the moment it struck him silent,
and sent him stamping out of the shed in a rage for which he could find no words.

It was two days later when the ladies of Bridgetown, the wives and daughters of her planters
and merchants, paid their first visit of charity to the wharf, bringing their gifts to the
wounded seamen.

Again Peter Blood was there, ministering to the sufferers in his care, moving among those unfortunate
Spaniards whom no one heeded. All the charity, all the gifts were for the members of the crew
of the Pride of Devon. And this Peter Blood accounted natural enough. But rising suddenly from
the re-dressing of a wound, a task in which he had been absorbed for some moments, he saw to
his surprise that one lady, detached from the general throng, was placing some plantains and
a bundle of succulent sugar cane on the cloak that served one of his patients for a coverlet.
She was elegantly dressed in lavender silk and was followed by a half-naked negro carrying
a basket.

Peter Blood, stripped of his coat, the sleeves of his coarse shirt rolled to the elbow, and
holding a bloody rag in his hand, stood at gaze a moment. The lady, turning now to confront
him, her lips parting in a smile of recognition, was Arabella Bishop.

"The man's a Spaniard," said he, in the tone of one who corrects a misapprehension, and also
tinged never so faintly by something of the derision that was in his soul.

The smile with which she had been greeting him withered on her lips. She frowned and stared
at him a moment, with increasing haughtiness.

"So I perceive. But he's a human being none the less," said she.

That answer, and its implied rebuke, took him by surprise.

"Your uncle, the Colonel, is of a different opinion," said he, when he had recovered. "He regards
them as vermin to be left to languish and die of their festering wounds."

She caught the irony now more plainly in his voice. She continued to stare at him.

"Why do you tell me this?"

"To warn you that you may be incurring the Colonel's displeasure. If he had had his way, I
should never have been allowed to dress their wounds."

"And you thought, of course, that I must be of my uncle's mind?" There was a crispness about
her voice, an ominous challenging sparkle in her hazel eyes.

"I'd not willingly be rude to a lady even in my thoughts," said he. "But that you should bestow
gifts on them, considering that if your uncle came to hear of it...." He paused, leaving the
sentence unfinished. "Ah, well--there it is!" he concluded.

But the lady was not satisfied at all.

"First you impute to me inhumanity, and then cowardice. Faith! For a man who would not willingly
be rude to a lady even in his thoughts, it's none so bad." Her boyish laugh trilled out, but
the note of it jarred his ears this time.

He saw her now, it seemed to him, for the first time, and saw how he had misjudged her.

"Sure, now, how was I to guess that... that Colonel Bishop could have an angel for his niece?"
said he recklessly, for he was reckless as men often are in sudden penitence.

"You wouldn't, of course. I shouldn't think you often guess aright." Having withered him with
that and her glance, she turned to her negro and the basket that he carried. From this she
lifted now the fruits and delicacies with which it was laden, and piled them in such heaps
upon the beds of the six Spaniards that by the time she had so served the last of them her
basket was empty, and there was nothing left for her own fellow-countrymen. These, indeed,
stood in no need of her bounty--as she no doubt observed--since they were being plentifully
supplied by others.

Having thus emptied her basket, she called her negro, and without another word or so much as
another glance at Peter Blood, swept out of the place with her head high and chin thrust forward.

Peter watched her departure. Then he fetched a sigh.

It startled him to discover that the thought that he had incurred her anger gave him concern.
It could not have been so yesterday. It became so only since he had been vouchsafed this revelation
of her true nature. "Bad cess to it now, it serves me right. It seems I know nothing at all
of human nature. But how the devil was I to guess that a family that can breed a devil like
Colonel Bishop should also breed a saint like this?"

CHAPTER VI. PLANS OF ESCAPE

After that Arabella Bishop went daily to the shed on the wharf with gifts of fruit, and later
of money and of wearing apparel for the Spanish prisoners. But she contrived so to time her
visits that Peter Blood never again met her there. Also his own visits were growing shorter
in a measure as his patients healed. That they all throve and returned to health under his
care, whilst fully one third of the wounded in the care of Whacker and Bronson--the two other
surgeons--died of their wounds, served to increase the reputation in which this rebel-convict
stood in Bridgetown. It may have been no more than the fortune of war. But the townsfolk did
not choose so to regard it. It led to a further dwindling of the practices of his free colleagues
and a further increase of his own labours and his owner's profit. Whacker and Bronson laid
their heads together to devise a scheme by which this intolerable state of things should be
brought to an end. But that is to anticipate.

One day, whether by accident or design, Peter Blood came striding down the wharf a full half-hour
earlier than usual, and so met Miss Bishop just issuing from the shed. He doffed his hat and
stood aside to give her passage. She took it, chin in the air, and eyes which disdained to
look anywhere where the sight of him was possible.

"Miss Arabella," said he, on a coaxing, pleading note.

She grew conscious of his presence, and looked him over with an air that was faintly, mockingly
searching.

"La!" said she. "It's the delicate-minded gentleman!"

Peter groaned. "Am I so hopelessly beyond forgiveness? I ask it very humbly."

"What condescension!"

"It is cruel to mock me," said he, and adopted mock-humility. "After all, I am but a slave.
And you might be ill one of these days."

"What, then?"

"It would be humiliating to send for me if you treat me like an enemy."

"You are not the only doctor in Bridgetown."

"But I am the least dangerous."

She grew suddenly suspicious of him, aware that he was permitting himself to rally her, and
in a measure she had already yielded to it. She stiffened, and looked him over again.

"You make too free, I think," she rebuked him.

"A doctor's privilege."

"I am not your patient. Please to remember it in future." And on that, unquestionably angry,
she departed.

"Now is she a vixen or am I a fool, or is it both?" he asked the blue vault of heaven, and
then went into the shed.

It was to be a morning of excitements. As he was leaving an hour or so later, Whacker, the
younger of the other two physicians, joined him--an unprecedented condescension this, for hitherto
neither of them had addressed him beyond an occasional and surly "good-day!"

"If you are for Colonel Bishop's, I'll walk with you a little way, Doctor Blood," said he.
He was a short, broad man of five-and-forty with pendulous cheeks and hard blue eyes.

Peter Blood was startled. But he dissembled it.

"I am for Government House," said he.

"Ah! To be sure! The Governor's lady." And he laughed; or perhaps he sneered. Peter Blood was
not quite certain. "She encroaches a deal upon your time, I hear. Youth and good looks, Doctor
Blood! Youth and good looks! They are inestimable advantages in our profession as in others--particularly
where the ladies are concerned."

Peter stared at him. "If you mean what you seem to mean, you had better say it to Governor
Steed. It may amuse him."

"You surely misapprehend me."

"I hope so."

"You're so very hot, now!" The doctor linked his arm through Peter's. "I protest I desire to
be your friend--to serve you. Now, listen." Instinctively his voice grew lower. "This slavery
in which you find yourself must be singularly irksome to a man of parts such as yourself."

"What intuitions!" cried sardonic Mr. Blood. But the doctor took him literally.

"I am no fool, my dear doctor. I know a man when I see one, and often I can tell his thoughts."

"If you can tell me mine, you'll persuade me of it," said Mr. Blood.

Dr. Whacker drew still closer to him as they stepped along the wharf. He lowered his voice
to a still more confidential tone. His hard blue eyes peered up into the swart, sardonic face
of his companion, who was a head taller than himself.

"How often have I not seen you staring out over the sea, your soul in your eyes! Don't I know
what you are thinking? If you could escape from this hell of slavery, you could exercise the
profession of which you are an ornament as a free man with pleasure and profit to yourself.
The world is large. There are many nations besides England where a man of your parts would
be warmly welcomed. There are many colonies besides these English ones." Lower still came the
voice until it was no more than a whisper. Yet there was no one within earshot. "It is none
so far now to the Dutch settlement of Curacao. At this time of the year the voyage may safely
be undertaken in a light craft. And Curacao need be no more than a stepping-stone to the great
world, which would lie open to you once you were delivered from this bondage."

Dr. Whacker ceased. He was pale and a little out of breath. But his hard eyes continued to
study his impassive companion.

"Well?" he said alter a pause. "What do you say to that?"

Yet Blood did not immediately answer. His mind was heaving in tumult, and he was striving to
calm it that he might take a proper survey of this thing flung into it to create so monstrous
a disturbance. He began where another might have ended.

"I have no money. And for that a handsome sum would be necessary."

"Did I not say that I desired to be your friend?"

"Why?" asked Peter Blood at point-blank range.

But he never heeded the answer. Whilst Dr. Whacker was professing that his heart bled for a
brother doctor languishing in slavery, denied the opportunity which his gifts entitled him
to make for himself, Peter Blood pounced like a hawk upon the obvious truth. Whacker and his
colleague desired to be rid of one who threatened to ruin them. Sluggishness of decision was
never a fault of Blood's. He leapt where another crawled. And so this thought of evasion never
entertained until planted there now by Dr. Whacker sprouted into instant growth.

"I see, I see," he said, whilst his companion was still talking, explaining, and to save Dr.
Whacker's face he played the hypocrite. "It is very noble in you--very brotherly, as between
men of medicine. It is what I myself should wish to do in like case."

The hard eyes flashed, the husky voice grew tremulous as the other asked almost too eagerly:

"You agree, then? You agree?"

"Agree?" Blood laughed. "If I should be caught and brought back, they'd clip my wings and brand
me for life."

"Surely the thing is worth a little risk?" More tremulous than ever was the tempter's voice.

"Surely," Blood agreed. "But it asks more than courage. It asks money. A sloop might be bought
for twenty pounds, perhaps."

"It shall be forthcoming. It shall be a loan, which you shall repay us--repay me, when you can."

That betraying "us" so hastily retrieved completed Blood's understanding. The other doctor
was also in the business.

They were approaching the peopled part of the mole. Quickly, but eloquently, Blood expressed
his thanks, where he knew that no thanks were due.

"We will talk of this again, sir--to-morrow," he concluded. "You have opened for me the gates
of hope."

In that at least he tittered no more than the bare truth, and expressed it very baldly. It
was, indeed, as if a door had been suddenly flung open to the sunlight for escape from a dark
prison in which a man had thought to spend his life.

He was in haste now to be alone, to straighten out his agitated mind and plan coherently what
was to be done. Also he must consult another. Already he had hit upon that other. For such
a voyage a navigator would be necessary, and a navigator was ready to his hand in Jeremy Pitt.
The first thing was to take counsel with the young shipmaster, who must be associated with
him in this business if it were to be undertaken. All that day his mind was in turmoil with
this new hope, and he was sick with impatience for night and a chance to discuss the matter
with his chosen partner. As a result Blood was betimes that evening in the spacious stockade
that enclosed the huts of the slaves together with the big white house of the overseer, and
he found an opportunity of a few words with Pitt, unobserved by the others.

"To-night when all are asleep, come to my cabin. I have something to say to you."

The young man stared at him, roused by Blood's pregnant tone out of the mental lethargy into
which he had of late been lapsing as a result of the dehumanizing life he lived. Then he nodded
understanding and assent, and they moved apart.

The six months of plantation life in Barbados had made an almost tragic mark upon the young
seaman. His erstwhile bright alertness was all departed. His face was growing vacuous, his
eyes were dull and lack-lustre, and he moved in a cringing, furtive manner, like an over-beaten
dog. He had survived the ill-nourishment, the excessive work on the sugar plantation under
a pitiless sun, the lashes of the overseer's whip when his labours flagged, and the deadly,
unrelieved animal life to which he was condemned. But the price he was paying for survival
was the usual price. He was in danger of becoming no better than an animal, of sinking to the
level of the negroes who sometimes toiled beside him. The man, however, was still there, not
yet dormant, but merely torpid from a surfeit of despair; and the man in him promptly shook
off that torpidity and awoke at the first words Blood spoke to him that night--awoke and wept.

"Escape?" he panted. "O God!" He took his head in his hands, and fell to sobbing like a child.

"Sh! Steady now! Steady!" Blood admonished him in a whisper, alarmed by the lad's blubbering.
He crossed to Pitt's side, and set a restraining hand upon his shoulder. "For God's sake, command
yourself. If we're overheard we shall both be flogged for this."

Among the privileges enjoyed by Blood was that of a hut to himself, and they were alone in
this. But, after all, it was built of wattles thinly plastered with mud, and its door was composed
of bamboos, through which sound passed very easily. Though the stockade was locked for the
night, and all within it asleep by now--it was after midnight--yet a prowling overseer was
not impossible, and a sound of voices must lead to discovery. Pitt realized this, and controlled
his outburst of emotion.

Sitting close thereafter they talked in whispers for an hour or more, and all the while those
dulled wits of Pitt's were sharpening themselves anew upon this precious whetstone of hope.
They would need to recruit others into their enterprise, a half-dozen at least, a half-score
if possible, but no more than that. They must pick the best out of that score of survivors
of the Monmouth men that Colonel Bishop had acquired. Men who understood the sea were desirable.
But of these there were only two in that unfortunate gang, and their knowledge was none too
full. They were Hagthorpe, a gentleman who had served in the Royal Navy, and Nicholas Dyke,
who had been a petty officer in the late king's time, and there was another who had been a
gunner, a man named Ogle.

It was agreed before they parted that Pitt should begin with these three and then proceed to
recruit some six or eight others. He was to move with the utmost caution, sounding his men
very carefully before making anything in the nature of a disclosure, and even then avoid rendering
that disclosure so full that its betrayal might frustrate the plans which as yet had to be
worked out in detail. Labouring with them in the plantations, Pitt would not want for opportunities
of broaching the matter to his fellow-slaves.

"Caution above everything," was Blood's last recommendation to him at parting. "Who goes slowly,
goes safely, as the Italians have it. And remember that if you betray yourself, you ruin all,
for you are the only navigator amongst us, and without you there is no escaping."

Pitt reassured him, and slunk off back to his own hut and the straw that served him for a bed.

Coming next morning to the wharf, Blood found Dr. Whacker in a generous mood. Having slept
on the matter, he was prepared to advance the convict any sum up to thirty pounds that would
enable him to acquire a boat capable of taking him away from the settlement. Blood expressed
his thanks becomingly, betraying no sign that he saw clearly into the true reason of the other's
munificence.

"It's not money I'll require," said he, "but the boat itself. For who will be selling me a
boat and incurring the penalties in Governor Steed's proclamation? Ye'll have read it, no doubt?"

Dr. Whacker's heavy face grew overcast. Thoughtfully he rubbed his chin. "I've read it--yes.
And I dare not procure the boat for you. It would be discovered. It must be. And the penalty
is a fine of two hundred pounds besides imprisonment. It would ruin me. You'll see that?"

The high hopes in Blood's soul, began to shrink. And the shadow of his despair overcast his face.

"But then..." he faltered. "There is nothing to be done."

"Nay, nay: things are not so desperate." Dr. Whacker smiled a little with tight lips. "I've
thought of it. You will see that the man who buys the boat must be one of those who goes with
you--so that he is not here to answer questions afterwards."

"But who is to go with me save men in my own case? What I cannot do, they cannot."

"There are others detained on the island besides slaves. There are several who are here for
debt, and would be glad enough to spread their wings. There's a fellow Nuttall, now, who follows
the trade of a shipwright, whom I happen to know would welcome such a chance as you might afford
him."

"But how should a debtor come with money to buy a boat? The question will be asked."

"To be sure it will. But if you contrive shrewdly, you'll all be gone before that happens."

Blood nodded understanding, and the doctor, setting a hand upon his sleeve, unfolded the scheme
he had conceived.

"You shall have the money from me at once. Having received it, you'll forget that it was I
who supplied it to you. You have friends in England--relatives, perhaps--who sent it out to
you through the agency of one of your Bridgetown patients, whose name as a man of honour you
will on no account divulge lest you bring trouble upon him. That is your tale if there are
questions."

He paused, looking hard at Blood. Blood nodded understanding and assent. Relieved, the doctor
continued:

"But there should be no questions if you go carefully to work. You concert matters With Nuttall.
You enlist him as one of your companions and a shipwright should be a very useful member of
your crew. You engage him to discover a likely sloop whose owner is disposed to sell. Then
let your preparations all be made before the purchase is effected, so that your escape may
follow instantly upon it before the inevitable questions come to be asked. You take me?"

So well did Blood take him that within an hour he contrived to see Nuttall, and found the fellow
as disposed to the business as Dr. Whacker had predicted. When he left the shipwright, it was
agreed that Nuttall should seek the boat required, for which Blood would at once produce the money.

The quest took longer than was expected by Blood, who waited impatiently with the doctor's
gold concealed about his person. But at the end of some three weeks, Nuttall--whom he was now
meeting daily--informed him that he had found a serviceable wherry, and that its owner was
disposed to sell it for twenty-two pounds. That evening, on the beach, remote from all eyes,
Peter Blood handed that sum to his new associate, and Nuttall went off with instructions to
complete the purchase late on the following day. He was to bring the boat to the wharf, where
under cover of night Blood and his fellow-convicts would join him and make off.

Everything was ready. In the shed, from which all the wounded men had now been removed and
which had since remained untenanted, Nuttall had concealed the necessary stores: a hundredweight
of bread, a quantity of cheese, a cask of water and some few bottles of Canary, a compass,
quadrant, chart, half-hour glass, log and line, a tarpaulin, some carpenter's tools, and a
lantern and candles. And in the stockade, all was likewise in readiness. Hagthorpe, Dyke, and
Ogle had agreed to join the venture, and eight others had been carefully recruited. In Pitt's
hut, which he shared with five other rebels-convict, all of whom were to join in this bid for
liberty, a ladder had been constructed in secret during those nights of waiting. With this
they were to surmount the stockade and gain the open. The risk of detection, so that they made
little noise, was negligible. Beyond locking them all into that stockade at night, there was
no great precaution taken. Where, after all, could any so foolish as to attempt escape hope
to conceal himself in that island? The chief risk lay in discovery by those of their companions
who were to be left behind. It was because of these that they must go cautiously and in silence.

The day that was to have been their last in Barbados was a day of hope and anxiety to the twelve
associates in that enterprise, no less than to Nuttall in the town below.

Towards sunset, having seen Nuttall depart to purchase and fetch the sloop to the prearranged
moorings at the wharf, Peter Blood came sauntering towards the stockade, just as the slaves
were being driven in from the fields. He stood aside at the entrance to let them pass, and
beyond the message of hope flashed by his eyes, he held no communication with them.

He entered the stockade in their wake, and as they broke their ranks to seek their various
respective huts, he beheld Colonel Bishop in talk with Kent, the overseer. The pair were standing
by the stocks, planted in the middle of that green space for the punishment of offending slaves.

As he advanced, Bishop turned to regard him, scowling. "Where have you been this while?" he
bawled, and although a minatory note was normal to the Colonel's voice, yet Blood felt his
heart tightening apprehensively.

"I've been at my work in the town," he answered. "Mrs. Patch has a fever and Mr. Dekker has
sprained his ankle."

"I sent for you to Dekker's, and you were not there. You are given to idling, my fine fellow.
We shall have to quicken you one of these days unless you cease from abusing the liberty you
enjoy. D'ye forget that ye're a rebel convict?"

"I am not given the chance," said Blood, who never could learn to curb his tongue.

"By God! Will you be pert with me?"

Remembering all that was at stake, growing suddenly conscious that from the huts surrounding
the enclosure anxious ears were listening, he instantly practised an unusual submission.

"Not pert, sir. I... I am sorry I should have been sought...."

"Aye, and you'll be sorrier yet. There's the Governor with an attack of gout, screaming like
a wounded horse, and you nowhere to be found. Be off, man--away with you at speed to Government
House! You're awaited, I tell you. Best lend him a horse, Kent, or the lout'll be all night
getting there."

They bustled him away, choking almost from a reluctance that he dared not show. The thing was
unfortunate; but after all not beyond remedy. The escape was set for midnight, and he should
easily be back by then. He mounted the horse that Kent procured him, intending to make all haste.

"How shall I reenter the stockade, sir?" he enquired at parting.

"You'll not reenter it," said Bishop. "When they've done with you at Government House, they
may find a kennel for you there until morning."

Peter Blood's heart sank like a stone through water.

"But..." he began.

"Be off, I say. Will you stand there talking until dark? His excellency is waiting for you."
And with his cane Colonel Bishop slashed the horse's quarters so brutally that the beast bounded
forward all but unseating her rider.

Peter Blood went off in a state of mind bordering on despair. And there was occasion for it.
A postponement of the escape at least until to-morrow night was necessary now, and postponement
must mean the discovery of Nuttall's transaction and the asking of questions it would be difficult
to answer.

It was in his mind to slink back in the night, once his work at Government House were done,
and from the outside of the stockade make known to Pitt and the others his presence, and so
have them join him that their project might still be carried out. But in this he reckoned without
the Governor, whom he found really in the thrall of a severe attack of gout, and almost as
severe an attack of temper nourished by Blood's delay.

The doctor was kept in constant attendance upon him until long after midnight, when at last
he was able to ease the sufferer a little by a bleeding. Thereupon he would have withdrawn.
But Steed would not hear of it. Blood must sleep in his own chamber to be at hand in case of
need. It was as if Fate made sport of him. For that night at least the escape must be definitely
abandoned.

Not until the early hours of the morning did Peter Blood succeed in making a temporary escape
from Government House on the ground that he required certain medicaments which he must, himself,
procure from the apothecary.

On that pretext, he made an excursion into the awakening town, and went straight to Nuttall,
whom he found in a state of livid panic. The unfortunate debtor, who had sat up waiting through
the night, conceived that all was discovered and that his own ruin would be involved. Peter
Blood quieted his fears.

"It will be for to-night instead," he said, with more assurance than he felt, "if I have to
bleed the Governor to death. Be ready as last night."

"But if there are questions meanwhile?" bleated Nuttall. He was a thin, pale, small-featured,
man with weak eyes that now blinked desperately.

"Answer as best you can. Use your wits, man. I can stay no longer." And Peter went off to the
apothecary for his pretexted drugs.

Within an hour of his going came an officer of the Secretary's to Nuttall's miserable hovel.
The seller of the boat had--as by law required since the coming of the rebels-convict--duly
reported the sale at the Secretary's office, so that he might obtain the reimbursement of the
ten-pound surety into which every keeper of a small boat was compelled to enter. The Secretary's
office postponed this reimbursement until it should have obtained confirmation of the transaction.

"We are informed that you have bought a wherry from Mr. Robert Farrell," said the officer.

"That is so," said Nuttall, who conceived that for him this was the end of the world.

"You are in no haste, it seems, to declare the same at the Secretary's office." The emissary
had a proper bureaucratic haughtiness.

Nuttall's weak eyes blinked at a redoubled rate.

"To... to declare it?"

"Ye know it's the law."

"I... I didn't, may it please you."

"But it's in the proclamation published last January."

"I... I can't read, sir. I... I didn't know."

"Faugh!" The messenger withered him with his disdain.

"Well, now you're informed. See to it that you are at the Secretary's office before noon with
the ten pounds surety into which you are obliged to enter."

The pompous officer departed, leaving Nuttall in a cold perspiration despite the heat of the
morning. He was thankful that the fellow had not asked the question he most dreaded, which
was how he, a debtor, should come by the money to buy a wherry. But this he knew was only a
respite. The question would presently be asked of a certainty, and then hell would open for
him. He cursed the hour in which he had been such a fool as to listen to Peter Blood's chatter
of escape. He thought it very likely that the whole plot would be discovered, and that he would
probably be hanged, or at least branded and sold into slavery like those other damned rebels-convict,
with whom he had been so mad as to associate himself. If only he had the ten pounds for this
infernal surety, which until this moment had never entered into their calculations, it was
possible that the thing might be done quickly and questions postponed until later. As the Secretary's
messenger had overlooked the fact that he was a debtor, so might the others at the Secretary's
office, at least for a day or two; and in that time he would, he hoped, be beyond the reach
of their questions. But in the meantime what was to be done about this money? And it was to
be found before noon!

Nuttall snatched up his hat, and went out in quest of Peter Blood. But where look for him?
Wandering aimlessly up the irregular, unpaved street, he ventured to enquire of one or two
if they had seen Dr. Blood that morning. He affected to be feeling none so well, and indeed
his appearance bore out the deception. None could give him information; and since Blood had
never told him of Whacker's share in this business, he walked in his unhappy ignorance past
the door of the one man in Barbados who would eagerly have saved him in this extremity.

Finally he determined to go up to Colonel Bishop's plantation. Probably Blood would be there.
If he were not, Nuttall would find Pitt, and leave a message with him. He was acquainted with
Pitt and knew of Pitt's share in this business. His pretext for seeking Blood must still be
that he needed medical assistance.

And at the same time that he set out, insensitive in his anxiety to the broiling heat, to climb
the heights to the north of the town, Blood was setting out from Government House at last,
having so far eased the Governor's condition as to be permitted to depart. Being mounted, he
would, but for an unexpected delay, have reached the stockade ahead of Nuttall, in which case
several unhappy events might have been averted. The unexpected delay was occasioned by Miss
Arabella Bishop.

They met at the gate of the luxuriant garden of Government House, and Miss Bishop, herself
mounted, stared to see Peter Blood on horseback. It happened that he was in good spirits. The
fact that the Governor's condition had so far improved as to restore him his freedom of movement
had sufficed to remove the depression under which he had been labouring for the past twelve
hours and more. In its rebound the mercury of his mood had shot higher far than present circumstances
warranted. He was disposed to be optimistic. What had failed last night would certainly not
fail again to-night. What was a day, after all? The Secretary's office might be troublesome,
but not really troublesome for another twenty-four hours at least; and by then they would be
well away.

This joyous confidence of his was his first misfortune. The next was that his good spirits
were also shared by Miss Bishop, and that she bore no rancour. The two things conjoined to
make the delay that in its consequences was so deplorable.

"Good-morning, sir," she hailed him pleasantly. "It's close upon a month since last I saw you."

"Twenty-one days to the hour," said he. "I've counted them."

"I vow I was beginning to believe you dead."

"I have to thank you for the wreath."

"The wreath?"

"To deck my grave," he explained.

"Must you ever be rallying?" she wondered, and looked at him gravely, remembering that it was
his rallying on the last occasion had driven her away in dudgeon.

"A man must sometimes laugh at himself or go mad," said he. "Few realize it. That is why there
are so many madmen in the world."

"You may laugh at yourself all you will, sir. But sometimes I think you laugh at me, which
is not civil."

"Then, faith, you're wrong. I laugh only at the comic, and you are not comic at all."

"What am I, then?" she asked him, laughing.

A moment he pondered her, so fair and fresh to behold, so entirely maidenly and yet so entirely
frank and unabashed.

"You are," he said, "the niece of the man who owns me his slave." But he spoke lightly. So
lightly that she was encouraged to insistence.

"Nay, sir, that is an evasion. You shall answer me truthfully this morning."

"Truthfully? To answer you at all is a labour. But to answer truthfully! Oh, well, now, I should
say of you that he'll be lucky who counts you his friend." It was in his mind to add more.
But he left it there.

"That's mighty civil," said she. "You've a nice taste in compliments, Mr. Blood. Another in
your place...."

"Faith, now, don't I know what another would have said? Don't I know my fellow-man at all?"

"Sometimes I think you do, and sometimes I think you don't. Anyway, you don't know your fellow-woman.
There was that affair of the Spaniards."

"Will ye never forget it?"

"Never."

"Bad cess to your memory. Is there no good in me at all that you could be dwelling on instead?"

"Oh, several things."

"For instance, now?" He was almost eager.

"You speak excellent Spanish."

"Is that all?" He sank back into dismay.

"Where did you learn it? Have you been in Spain?"

"That I have. I was two years in a Spanish prison."

"In prison?" Her tone suggested apprehensions in which he had no desire to leave her.

"As a prisoner of war," he explained. "I was taken fighting with the French--in French service,
that is."

"But you're a doctor!" she cried.

"That's merely a diversion, I think. By trade I am a soldier--at least, it's a trade I followed
for ten years. It brought me no great gear, but it served me better than medicine, which, as
you may observe, has brought me into slavery. I'm thinking it's more pleasing in the sight
of Heaven to kill men than to heal them. Sure it must be."

"But how came you to be a soldier, and to serve the French?"

"I am Irish, you see, and I studied medicine. Therefore--since it's a perverse nation we are--....
Oh, but it's a long story, and the Colonel will be expecting my return." She was not in that
way to be defrauded of her entertainment. If he would wait a moment they would ride back together.
She had but come to enquire of the Governor's health at her uncle's request.

So he waited, and so they rode back together to Colonel Bishop's house. They rode very slowly,
at a walking pace, and some whom they passed marvelled to see the doctor-slave on such apparently
intimate terms with his owner's niece. One or two may have promised themselves that they would
drop a hint to the Colonel. But the two rode oblivious of all others in the world that morning.
He was telling her the story of his early turbulent days, and at the end of it he dwelt more
fully than hitherto upon the manner of his arrest and trial.

The tale was barely done when they drew up at the Colonel's door, and dismounted, Peter Blood
surrendering his nag to one of the negro grooms, who informed them that the Colonel was from
home at the moment.

Even then they lingered a moment, she detaining him.

"I am sorry, Mr. Blood, that I did not know before," she said, and there was a suspicion of
moisture in those clear hazel eyes. With a compelling friendliness she held out her hand to him.

"Why, what difference could it have made?" he asked.

"Some, I think. You have been very hardly used by Fate."

"Och, now...." He paused. His keen sapphire eyes considered her steadily a moment from under
his level black brows. "It might have been worse," he said, with a significance which brought
a tinge of colour to her cheeks and a flutter to her eyelids.

He stooped to kiss her hand before releasing it, and she did not deny him. Then he turned and
strode off towards the stockade a half-mile away, and a vision of her face went with him, tinted
with a rising blush and a sudden unusual shyness. He forgot in that little moment that he was
a rebel-convict with ten years of slavery before him; he forgot that he had planned an escape,
which was to be carried into effect that night; forgot even the peril of discovery which as
a result of the Governor's gout now overhung him.

CHAPTER VII. PIRATES

Mr. James Nuttall made all speed, regardless of the heat, in his journey from Bridgetown to
Colonel Bishop's plantation, and if ever man was built for speed in a hot climate that man
was Mr. James Nuttall, with his short, thin body, and his long, fleshless legs. So withered
was he that it was hard to believe there were any juices left in him, yet juices there must
have been, for he was sweating violently by the time he reached the stockade.

At the entrance he almost ran into the overseer Kent, a squat, bow-legged animal with the arms
of a Hercules and the jowl of a bulldog.

"I am seeking Doctor Blood," he announced breathlessly.

"You are in a rare haste," growled Kent. "What the devil is it? Twins?"

"Eh? Oh! Nay, nay. I'm not married, sir. It's a cousin of mine, sir."

"What is?"

"He is taken bad, sir," Nuttall lied promptly upon the cue that Kent himself had afforded him.
"Is the doctor here?"

"That's his hut yonder." Kent pointed carelessly. "If he's not there, he'll be somewhere else."
And he took himself off. He was a surly, ungracious beast at all times, readier with the lash
of his whip than with his tongue.

Nuttall watched him go with satisfaction, and even noted the direction that he took. Then he
plunged into the enclosure, to verify in mortification that Dr. Blood was not at home. A man
of sense might have sat down and waited, judging that to be the quickest and surest way in
the end. But Nuttall had no sense. He flung out of the stockade again, hesitated a moment as
to which direction he should take, and finally decided to go any way but the way that Kent
had gone. He sped across the parched savannah towards the sugar plantation which stood solid
as a rampart and gleaming golden in the dazzling June sunshine. Avenues intersected the great
blocks of ripening amber cane. In the distance down one of these he espied some slaves at work.
Nuttall entered the avenue and advanced upon them. They eyed him dully, as he passed them.
Pitt was not of their number, and he dared not ask for him. He continued his search for best
part of an hour, up one of those lanes and then down another. Once an overseer challenged him,
demanding to know his business. He was looking, he said, for Dr. Blood. His cousin was taken
ill. The overseer bade him go to the devil, and get out of the plantation. Blood was not there.
If he was anywhere he would be in his hut in the stockade.

Nuttall passed on, upon the understanding that he would go. But he went in the wrong direction;
he went on towards the side of the plantation farthest from the stockade, towards the dense
woods that fringed it there. The overseer was too contemptuous and perhaps too languid in the
stifling heat of approaching noontide to correct his course.

Nuttall blundered to the end of the avenue, and round the corner of it, and there ran into
Pitt, alone, toiling with a wooden spade upon an irrigation channel. A pair of cotton drawers,
loose and ragged, clothed him from waist to knee; above and below he was naked, save for a
broad hat of plaited straw that sheltered his unkempt golden head from the rays of the tropical
sun. At sight of him Nuttall returned thanks aloud to his Maker. Pitt stared at him, and the
shipwright poured out his dismal news in a dismal tone. The sum of it was that he must have
ten pounds from Blood that very morning or they were all undone. And all he got for his pains
and his sweat was the condemnation of Jeremy Pitt.

"Damn you for a fool!" said the slave. "If it's Blood you're seeking, why are you wasting your
time here?"

"I can't find him," bleated Nuttall. He was indignant at his reception. He forgot the jangled
state of the other's nerves after a night of anxious wakefulness ending in a dawn of despair.
"I thought that you...."

"You thought that I could drop my spade and go and seek him for you? Is that what you thought?
My God! that our lives should depend upon such a dummerhead. While you waste your time here,
the hours are passing! And if an overseer should catch you talking to me? How'll you explain it?"

For a moment Nuttall was bereft of speech by such ingratitude. Then he exploded.

"I would to Heaven I had never had no hand in this affair. I would so! I wish that...."

What else he wished was never known, for at that moment round the block of cane came a big
man in biscuit-coloured taffetas followed by two negroes in cotton drawers who were armed with
cutlasses. He was not ten yards away, but his approach over the soft, yielding marl had been
unheard.

Mr. Nuttall looked wildly this way and that a moment, then bolted like a rabbit for the woods,
thus doing the most foolish and betraying thing that in the circumstances it was possible for
him to do. Pitt groaned and stood still, leaning upon his spade.

"Hi, there! Stop!" bawled Colonel Bishop after the fugitive, and added horrible threats tricked
out with some rhetorical indecencies.

But the fugitive held amain, and never so much as turned his head. It was his only remaining
hope that Colonel Bishop might not have seen his face; for the power and influence of Colonel
Bishop was quite sufficient to hang any man whom he thought would be better dead.

Not until the runagate had vanished into the scrub did the planter sufficiently recover from
his indignant amazement to remember the two negroes who followed at his heels like a brace
of hounds. It was a bodyguard without which he never moved in his plantations since a slave
had made an attack upon him and all but strangled him a couple of years ago.

"After him, you black swine!" he roared at them. But as they started he checked them. "Wait!
Get to heel, damn you!"

It occurred to him that to catch and deal with the fellow there was not the need to go after
him, and perhaps spend the day hunting him in that cursed wood. There was Pitt here ready to
his hand, and Pitt should tell him the identity of his bashful friend, and also the subject
of that close and secret talk he had disturbed. Pitt might, of course, be reluctant. So much
the worse for Pitt. The ingenious Colonel Bishop knew a dozen ways--some of them quite diverting--of
conquering stubbornness in these convict dogs.

He turned now upon the slave a countenance that was inflamed by heat internal and external,
and a pair of heady eyes that were alight with cruel intelligence. He stepped forward swinging
his light bamboo cane.

"Who was that runagate?" he asked with terrible suavity. Leaning over on his spade, Jeremy
Pitt hung his head a little, and shifted uncomfortably on his bare feet. Vainly he groped for
an answer in a mind that could do nothing but curse the idiocy of Mr. James Nuttall.

The planter's bamboo cane fell on the lad's naked shoulders with stinging force.

"Answer me, you dog! What's his name?"

Jeremy looked at the burly planter out of sullen, almost defiant eyes.

"I don't know," he said, and in his voice there was a faint note at least of the defiance aroused
in him by a blow which he dared not, for his life's sake, return. His body had remained unyielding
under it, but the spirit within writhed now in torment.

"You don't know? Well, here's to quicken your wits." Again the cane descended. "Have you thought
of his name yet?"

"I have not."

"Stubborn, eh?" For a moment the Colonel leered. Then his passion mastered him. "'Swounds!
You impudent dog! D'you trifle with me? D'you think I'm to be mocked?"

Pitt shrugged, shifted sideways on his feet again, and settled into dogged silence. Few things
are more provocative; and Colonel Bishop's temper was never one that required much provocation.
Brute fury now awoke in him. Fiercely now he lashed those defenceless shoulders, accompanying
each blow by blasphemy and foul abuse, until, stung beyond endurance, the lingering embers
of his manhood fanned into momentary flame, Pitt sprang upon his tormentor.

But as he sprang, so also sprang the watchful blacks. Muscular bronze arms coiled crushingly
about the frail white body, and in a moment the unfortunate slave stood powerless, his wrists
pinioned behind him in a leathern thong.

Breathing hard, his face mottled, Bishop pondered him a moment. Then: "Fetch him along," he said.

Down the long avenue between those golden walls of cane standing some eight feet high, the
wretched Pitt was thrust by his black captors in the Colonel's wake, stared at with fearful
eyes by his fellow-slaves at work there. Despair went with him. What torments might immediately
await him he cared little, horrible though he knew they would be. The real source of his mental
anguish lay in the conviction that the elaborately planned escape from this unutterable hell
was frustrated now in the very moment of execution.

They came out upon the green plateau and headed for the stockade and the overseer's white house.
Pitt's eyes looked out over Carlisle Bay, of which this plateau commanded a clear view from
the fort on one side to the long sheds of the wharf on the other. Along this wharf a few shallow
boats were moored, and Pitt caught himself wondering which of these was the wherry in which
with a little luck they might have been now at sea. Out over that sea his glance ranged miserably.

In the roads, standing in for the shore before a gentle breeze that scarcely ruffled the sapphire
surface of the Caribbean, came a stately red-hulled frigate, flying the English ensign.

Colonel Bishop halted to consider her, shading his eyes with his fleshly hand. Light as was
the breeze, the vessel spread no canvas to it beyond that of her foresail. Furled was her every
other sail, leaving a clear view of the majestic lines of her hull, from towering stern castle
to gilded beakhead that was aflash in the dazzling sunshine.

So leisurely an advance argued a master indifferently acquainted with these waters, who preferred
to creep forward cautiously, sounding his way. At her present rate of progress it would be
an hour, perhaps, before she came to anchorage within the harbour. And whilst the Colonel viewed
her, admiring, perhaps, the gracious beauty of her, Pitt was hurried forward into the stockade,
and clapped into the stocks that stood there ready for slaves who required correction.

Colonel Bishop followed him presently, with leisurely, rolling gait.

"A mutinous cur that shows his fangs to his master must learn good manners at the cost of a
striped hide," was all he said before setting about his executioner's job.

That with his own hands he should do that which most men of his station would, out of self-respect,
have relegated to one of the negroes, gives you the measure of the man's beastliness. It was
almost as if with relish, as if gratifying some feral instinct of cruelty, that he now lashed
his victim about head and shoulders. Soon his cane was reduced, to splinters by his violence.
You know, perhaps, the sting of a flexible bamboo cane when it is whole. But do you realize
its murderous quality when it has been split into several long lithe blades, each with an edge
that is of the keenness of a knife?

When, at last, from very weariness, Colonel Bishop flung away the stump and thongs to which
his cane had been reduced, the wretched slave's back was bleeding pulp from neck to waist.

As long as full sensibility remained, Jeremy Pitt had made no sound. But in a measure as from
pain his senses were mercifully dulled, he sank forward in the stocks, and hung there now in
a huddled heap, faintly moaning.

Colonel Bishop set his foot upon the crossbar, and leaned over his victim, a cruel smile on
his full, coarse face.

"Let that teach you a proper submission," said he. "And now touching that shy friend of yours,
you shall stay here without meat or drink--without meat or drink, d' ye hear me?--until you
please to tell me his name and business." He took his foot from the bar. "When you've had enough
of this, send me word, and we'll have the branding-irons to you."

On that he swung on his heel, and strode out of the stockade, his negroes following.

Pitt had heard him, as we hear things in our dreams. At the moment so spent was he by his cruel
punishment, and so deep was the despair into which he had fallen, that he no longer cared whether
he lived or died.

Soon, however, from the partial stupor which pain had mercifully induced, a new variety of
pain aroused him. The stocks stood in the open under the full glare of the tropical sun, and
its blistering rays streamed down upon that mangled, bleeding back until he felt as if flames
of fire were searing it. And, soon, to this was added a torment still more unspeakable. Flies,
the cruel flies of the Antilles, drawn by the scent of blood, descended in a cloud upon him.

Small wonder that the ingenious Colonel Bishop, who so well understood the art of loosening
stubborn tongues, had not deemed it necessary to have recourse to other means of torture. Not
all his fiendish cruelty could devise a torment more cruel, more unendurable than the torments
Nature would here procure a man in Pitt's condition.

The slave writhed in his stocks until he was in danger of breaking his limbs, and writhing,
screamed in agony.

Thus was he found by Peter Blood, who seemed to his troubled vision to materialize suddenly
before him. Mr. Blood carried a large palmetto leaf. Having whisked away with this the flies
that were devouring Jeremy's back, he slung it by a strip of fibre from the lad's neck, so
that it protected him from further attacks as well as from the rays of the sun. Next, sitting
down beside him, he drew the sufferer's head down on his own shoulder, and bathed his face
from a pannikin of cold water. Pitt shuddered and moaned on a long, indrawn breath.

"Drink!" he gasped. "Drink, for the love of Christ!" The pannikin was held to his quivering
lips. He drank greedily, noisily, nor ceased until he had drained the vessel. Cooled and revived
by the draught, he attempted to sit up.

"My back!" he screamed.

There was an unusual glint in Mr. Blood's eyes; his lips were compressed. But when he parted
them to speak, his voice came cool and steady.

"Be easy, now. One thing at a time. Your back's taking no harm at all for the present, since
I've covered it up. I'm wanting to know what's happened to you. D' ye think we can do without
a navigator that ye go and provoke that beast Bishop until he all but kills you?"

Pitt sat up and groaned again. But this time his anguish was mental rather than physical.

"I don't think a navigator will be needed this time, Peter."

"What's that?" cried Mr. Blood.

Pitt explained the situation as briefly as he could, in a halting, gasping speech. "I'm to
rot here until I tell him the identity of my visitor and his business."

Mr. Blood got up, growling in his throat. "Bad cess to the filthy slaver!" said he. "But it
must be contrived, nevertheless. To the devil with Nuttall! Whether he gives surety for the
boat or not, whether he explains it or not, the boat remains, and we're going, and you're coming
with us."

"You're dreaming, Peter," said the prisoner. "We're not going this time. The magistrates will
confiscate the boat since the surety's not paid, even if when they press him Nuttall does not
confess the whole plan and get us all branded on the forehead."

Mr. Blood turned away, and with agony in his eyes looked out to sea over the blue water by
which he had so fondly hoped soon to be travelling back to freedom.

The great red ship had drawn considerably nearer shore by now. Slowly, majestically, she was
entering the bay. Already one or two wherries were putting off from the wharf to board her.
From where he stood, Mr. Blood could see the glinting of the brass cannons mounted on the prow
above the curving beak-head, and he could make out the figure of a seaman in the forechains
on her larboard side, leaning out to heave the lead.

An angry voice aroused him from his unhappy thoughts.

"What the devil are you doing here?"

The returning Colonel Bishop came striding into the stockade, his negroes following ever.

Mr. Blood turned to face him, and over that swarthy countenance--which, indeed, by now was
tanned to the golden brown of a half-caste Indian--a mask descended.

"Doing?" said he blandly. "Why, the duties of my office."

The Colonel, striding furiously forward, observed two things. The empty pannikin on the seat
beside the prisoner, and the palmetto leaf protecting his back. "Have you dared to do this?"
The veins on the planter's forehead stood out like cords.

"Of course I have." Mr. Blood's tone was one of faint surprise.

"I said he was to have neither meat nor drink until I ordered it."

"Sure, now, I never heard ye."

"You never heard me? How should you have heard me when you weren't here?"

"Then how did ye expect me to know what orders ye'd given?" Mr. Blood's tone was positively
aggrieved. "All that I knew was that one of your slaves was being murthered by the sun and
the flies. And I says to myself, this is one of the Colonel's slaves, and I'm the Colonel's
doctor, and sure it's my duty to be looking after the Colonel's property. So I just gave the
fellow a spoonful of water and covered his back from the sun. And wasn't I right now?"

"Right?" The Colonel was almost speechless.

"Be easy, now, be easy!" Mr. Blood implored him. "It's an apoplexy ye'll be contacting if ye
give way to heat like this."

The planter thrust him aside with an imprecation, and stepping forward tore the palmetto leaf
from the prisoner's back.

"In the name of humanity, now...." Mr. Blood was beginning.

The Colonel swung upon him furiously. "Out of this!" he commanded. "And don't come near him
again until I send for you, unless you want to be served in the same way."

He was terrific in his menace, in his bulk, and in the power of him. But Mr. Blood never flinched.
It came to the Colonel, as he found himself steadily regarded by those light-blue eyes that
looked so arrestingly odd in that tawny face--like pale sapphires set in copper--that this
rogue had for some time now been growing presumptuous. It was a matter that he must presently
correct. Meanwhile Mr. Blood was speaking again, his tone quietly insistent.

"In the name of humanity," he repeated, "ye'll allow me to do what I can to ease his sufferings,
or I swear to you that I'll forsake at once the duties of a doctor, and that it's devil another
patient will I attend in this unhealthy island at all."

For an instant the Colonel was too amazed to speak. Then--

"By God!" he roared. "D'ye dare take that tone with me, you dog? D'ye dare to make terms with me?"

"I do that." The unflinching blue eyes looked squarely into the Colonel's, and there was a
devil peeping out of them, the devil of recklessness that is born of despair.

Colonel Bishop considered him for a long moment in silence. "I've been too soft with you,"
he said at last. "But that's to be mended." And he tightened his lips. "I'll have the rods
to you, until there's not an inch of skin left on your dirty back."

"Will ye so? And what would Governor Steed do, then?"

"Ye're not the only doctor on the island."

Mr. Blood actually laughed. "And will ye tell that to his excellency, him with the gout in
his foot so bad that he can't stand? Ye know very well it's devil another doctor will he tolerate,
being an intelligent man that knows what's good for him."

But the Colonel's brute passion thoroughly aroused was not so easily to be baulked. "If you're
alive when my blacks have done with you, perhaps you'll come to your senses."

He swung to his negroes to issue an order. But it was never issued. At that moment a terrific
rolling thunderclap drowned his voice and shook the very air. Colonel Bishop jumped, his negroes
jumped with him, and so even did the apparently imperturbable Mr. Blood. Then the four of them
stared together seawards.

Down in the bay all that could be seen of the great ship, standing now within a cable's-length
of the fort, were her topmasts thrusting above a cloud of smoke in which she was enveloped.
From the cliffs a flight of startled seabirds had risen to circle in the blue, giving tongue
to their alarm, the plaintive curlew noisiest of all.

As those men stared from the eminence on which they stood, not yet understanding what had taken
place, they saw the British Jack dip from the main truck and vanish into the rising cloud below.
A moment more, and up through that cloud to replace the flag of England soared the gold and
crimson banner of Castile. And then they understood.

"Pirates!" roared the Colonel, and again, "Pirates!"

Fear and incredulity were blent in his voice. He had paled under his tan until his face was
the colour of clay, and there was a wild fury in his beady eyes. His negroes looked at him,
grinning idiotically, all teeth and eyeballs.

CHAPTER VIII. SPANIARDS

The stately ship that had been allowed to sail so leisurely into Carlisle Bay under her false
colours was a Spanish privateer, coming to pay off some of the heavy debt piled up by the predaceous
Brethren of the Coast, and the recent defeat by the Pride of Devon of two treasure galleons
bound for Cadiz. It happened that the galleon which escaped in a more or less crippled condition
was commanded by Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez, who was own brother to the Spanish Admiral
Don Miguel de Espinosa, and who was also a very hasty, proud, and hot-tempered gentleman.

Galled by his defeat, and choosing to forget that his own conduct had invited it, he had sworn
to teach the English a sharp lesson which they should remember. He would take a leaf out of
the book of Morgan and those other robbers of the sea, and make a punitive raid upon an English
settlement. Unfortunately for himself and for many others, his brother the Admiral was not
at hand to restrain him when for this purpose he fitted out the Cinco Llagas at San Juan de
Porto Rico. He chose for his objective the island of Barbados, whose natural strength was apt
to render her defenders careless. He chose it also because thither had the Pride of Devon been
tracked by his scouts, and he desired a measure of poetic justice to invest his vengeance.
And he chose a moment when there were no ships of war at anchor in Carlisle Bay.

He had succeeded so well in his intentions that he had aroused no suspicion until he saluted
the fort at short range with a broadside of twenty guns.

And now the four gaping watchers in the stockade on the headland beheld the great ship creep
forward under the rising cloud of smoke, her mainsail unfurled to increase her steering way,
and go about close-hauled to bring her larboard guns to bear upon the unready fort.

With the crashing roar of that second broadside, Colonel Bishop awoke from stupefaction to
a recollection of where his duty lay. In the town below drums were beating frantically, and
a trumpet was bleating, as if the peril needed further advertising. As commander of the Barbados
Militia, the place of Colonel Bishop was at the head of his scanty troops, in that fort which
the Spanish guns were pounding into rubble.

Remembering it, he went off at the double, despite his bulk and the heat, his negroes trotting
after him.

Mr. Blood turned to Jeremy Pitt. He laughed grimly. "Now that," said he, "is what I call a
timely interruption. Though what'll come of it," he added as an afterthought, "the devil himself
knows."

As a third broadside was thundering forth, he picked up the palmetto leaf and carefully replaced
it on the back of his fellow-slave.

And then into the stockade, panting and sweating, came Kent followed by best part of a score
of plantation workers, some of whom were black and all of whom were in a state of panic. He
led them into the low white house, to bring them forth again, within a moment, as it seemed,
armed now with muskets and hangers and some of them equipped with bandoleers.

By this time the rebels-convict were coming in, in twos and threes, having abandoned their
work upon finding themselves unguarded and upon scenting the general dismay.

Kent paused a moment, as his hastily armed guard dashed forth, to fling an order to those slaves.

"To the woods!" he bade them. "Take to the woods, and lie close there, until this is over,
and we've gutted these Spanish swine."

On that he went off in haste after his men, who were to be added to those massing in the town,
so as to oppose and overwhelm the Spanish landing parties.

The slaves would have obeyed him on the instant but for Mr. Blood.

"What need for haste, and in this heat?" quoth he. He was surprisingly cool, they thought.
"Maybe there'll be no need to take to the woods at all, and, anyway, it will be time enough
to do so when the Spaniards are masters of the town."

And so, joined now by the other stragglers, and numbering in all a round score--rebels-convict
all--they stayed to watch from their vantage-ground the fortunes of the furious battle that
was being waged below.

The landing was contested by the militia and by every islander capable of bearing arms with
the fierce resoluteness of men who knew that no quarter was to be expected in defeat. The ruthlessness
of Spanish soldiery was a byword, and not at his worst had Morgan or L'Ollonais ever perpetrated
such horrors as those of which these Castilian gentlemen were capable.

But this Spanish commander knew his business, which was more than could truthfully be said
for the Barbados Militia. Having gained the advantage of a surprise blow, which had put the
fort out of action, he soon showed them that he was master of the situation. His guns turned
now upon the open space behind the mole, where the incompetent Bishop had marshalled his men,
tore the militia into bloody rags, and covered the landing parties which were making the shore
in their own boats and in several of those which had rashly gone out to the great ship before
her identity was revealed.

All through the scorching afternoon the battle went on, the rattle and crack of musketry penetrating
ever deeper into the town to show that the defenders were being driven steadily back. By sunset
two hundred and fifty Spaniards were masters of Bridgetown, the islanders were disarmed, and
at Government House, Governor Steed--his gout forgotten in his panic--supported by Colonel
Bishop and some lesser officers, was being informed by Don Diego, with an urbanity that was
itself a mockery, of the sum that would be required in ransom.

For a hundred thousand pieces of eight and fifty head of cattle, Don Diego would forbear from
reducing the place to ashes. And what time that suave and courtly commander was settling these
details with the apoplectic British Governor, the Spaniards were smashing and looting, feasting,
drinking, and ravaging after the hideous manner of their kind.

Mr. Blood, greatly daring, ventured down at dusk into the town. What he saw there is recorded
by Jeremy Pitt to whom he subsequently related it--in that voluminous log from which the greater
part of my narrative is derived. I have no intention of repeating any of it here. It is all
too loathsome and nauseating, incredible, indeed, that men however abandoned could ever descend
such an abyss of bestial cruelty and lust.

What he saw was fetching him in haste and white-faced out of that hell again, when in a narrow
street a girl hurtled into him, wild-eyed, her unbound hair streaming behind her as she ran.
After her, laughing and cursing in a breath, came a heavy-booted Spaniard. Almost he was upon
her, when suddenly Mr. Blood got in his way. The doctor had taken a sword from a dead man's
side some little time before and armed himself with it against an emergency.

As the Spaniard checked in anger and surprise, he caught in the dusk the livid gleam of that
sword which Mr. Blood had quickly unsheathed.

"Ah, perro ingles!" he shouted, and flung forward to his death.

"It's hoping I am ye're in a fit state to meet your Maker," said Mr. Blood, and ran him through
the body. He did the thing skilfully: with the combined skill of swordsman and surgeon. The
man sank in a hideous heap without so much as a groan.

Mr. Blood swung to the girl, who leaned panting and sobbing against a wall. He caught her by
the wrist.

"Come!" he said.

But she hung back, resisting him by her weight. "Who are you?" she demanded wildly.

"Will ye wait to see my credentials?" he snapped. Steps were clattering towards them from beyond
the corner round which she had fled from that Spanish ruffian. "Come," he urged again. And
this time, reassured perhaps by his clear English speech, she went without further questions.

They sped down an alley and then up another, by great good fortune meeting no one, for already
they were on the outskirts of the town. They won out of it, and white-faced, physically sick,
Mr. Blood dragged her almost at a run up the hill towards Colonel Bishop's house. He told her
briefly who and what he was, and thereafter there was no conversation between them until they
reached the big white house. It was all in darkness, which at least was reassuring. If the
Spaniards had reached it, there would be lights. He knocked, but had to knock again and yet
again before he was answered. Then it was by a voice from a window above.

"Who is there?" The voice was Miss Bishop's, a little tremulous, but unmistakably her own.

Mr. Blood almost fainted in relief. He had been imagining the unimaginable. He had pictured
her down in that hell out of which he had just come. He had conceived that she might have followed
her uncle into Bridgetown, or committed some other imprudence, and he turned cold from head
to foot at the mere thought of what might have happened to her.

"It is I--Peter Blood," he gasped.

"What do you want?"

It is doubtful whether she would have come down to open. For at such a time as this it was
no more than likely that the wretched plantation slaves might be in revolt and prove as great
a danger as the Spaniards. But at the sound of her voice, the girl Mr. Blood had rescued peered
up through the gloom.

"Arabella!" she called. "It is I, Mary Traill."

"Mary!" The voice ceased above on that exclamation, the head was withdrawn. After a brief pause
the door gaped wide. Beyond it in the wide hall stood Miss Arabella, a slim, virginal figure
in white, mysteriously revealed in the gleam of a single candle which she carried.

Mr. Blood strode in followed by his distraught companion, who, falling upon Arabella's slender
bosom, surrendered herself to a passion of tears. But he wasted no time.

"Whom have you here with you? What servants?" he demanded sharply.

The only male was James, an old negro groom.

"The very man," said Blood. "Bid him get out horses. Then away with you to Speightstown, or
even farther north, where you will be safe. Here you are in danger--in dreadful danger."

"But I thought the fighting was over..." she was beginning, pale and startled.

"So it is. But the deviltry's only beginning. Miss Traill will tell you as you go. In God's
name, madam, take my word for it, and do as I bid you."

"He... he saved me," sobbed Miss Traill.

"Saved you?" Miss Bishop was aghast. "Saved you from what, Mary?"

"Let that wait," snapped Mr. Blood almost angrily. "You've all the night for chattering when
you're out of this, and away beyond their reach. Will you please call James, and do as I say--and
at once!"

"You are very peremptory...."

"Oh, my God! I am peremptory! Speak, Miss Trail!, tell her whether I've cause to be peremptory."

"Yes, yes," the girl cried, shuddering. "Do as he says--Oh, for pity's sake, Arabella."

Miss Bishop went off, leaving Mr. Blood and Miss Traill alone again.

"I... I shall never forget what you did, sir," said she, through her diminishing tears. She
was a slight wisp of a girl, a child, no more.

"I've done better things in my time. That's why I'm here," said Mr. Blood, whose mood seemed
to be snappy.

She didn't pretend to understand him, and she didn't make the attempt.

"Did you... did you kill him?" she asked, fearfully.

He stared at her in the flickering candlelight. "I hope so. It is very probable, and it doesn't
matter at all," he said. "What matters is that this fellow James should fetch the horses."
And he was stamping off to accelerate these preparations for departure, when her voice arrested
him.

"Don't leave me! Don't leave me here alone!" she cried in terror.

He paused. He turned and came slowly back. Standing above her he smiled upon her.

"There, there! You've no cause for alarm. It's all over now. You'll be away soon--away to Speightstown,
where you'll be quite safe."

The horses came at last--four of them, for in addition to James who was to act as her guide,
Miss Bishop had her woman, who was not to be left behind.

Mr. Blood lifted the slight weight of Mary Traill to her horse, then turned to say good-bye
to Miss Bishop, who was already mounted. He said it, and seemed to have something to add. But
whatever it was, it remained unspoken. The horses started, and receded into the sapphire starlit
night, leaving him standing there before Colonel Bishop's door. The last he heard of them was
Mary Traill's childlike voice calling back on a quavering note--

"I shall never forget what you did, Mr. Blood. I shall never forget."

But as it was not the voice he desired to hear, the assurance brought him little satisfaction.
He stood there in the dark watching the fireflies amid the rhododendrons, till the hoofbeats
had faded. Then he sighed and roused himself. He had much to do. His journey into the town
had not been one of idle curiosity to see how the Spaniards conducted themselves in victory.
It had been inspired by a very different purpose, and he had gained in the course of it all
the information he desired. He had an extremely busy night before him, and must be moving.

He went off briskly in the direction of the stockade, where his fellow-slaves awaited him in
deep anxiety and some hope.

CHAPTER IX. THE REBELS-CONVICT

There were, when the purple gloom of the tropical night descended upon the Caribbean, not more
than ten men on guard aboard the Cinco Llagas, so confident--and with good reason--were the
Spaniards of the complete subjection of the islanders. And when I say that there were ten men
on guard, I state rather the purpose for which they were left aboard than the duty which they
fulfilled. As a matter of fact, whilst the main body of the Spaniards feasted and rioted ashore,
the Spanish gunner and his crew--who had so nobly done their duty and ensured the easy victory
of the day--were feasting on the gun-deck upon the wine and the fresh meats fetched out to
them from shore. Above, two sentinels only kept vigil, at stem and stern. Nor were they as
vigilant as they should have been, or else they must have observed the two wherries that under
cover of the darkness came gliding from the wharf, with well-greased rowlocks, to bring up
in silence under the great ship's quarter.

From the gallery aft still hung the ladder by which Don Diego had descended to the boat that
had taken him ashore. The sentry on guard in the stern, coming presently round this gallery,
was suddenly confronted by the black shadow of a man standing before him at the head of the ladder.

"Who's there?" he asked, but without alarm, supposing it one of his fellows.

"It is I," softly answered Peter Blood in the fluent Castillan of which he was master.

"Is it you, Pedro?" The Spaniard came a step nearer.

"Peter is my name; but I doubt I'll not be the Peter you're expecting."

"How?" quoth the sentry, checking.

"This way," said Mr. Blood.

The wooden taffrail was a low one, and the Spaniard was taken completely by surprise. Save
for the splash he made as he struck the water, narrowly missing one of the crowded boats that
waited under the counter, not a sound announced his misadventure. Armed as he was with corselet,
cuissarts, and headpiece, he sank to trouble them no more.

"Whist!" hissed Mr. Blood to his waiting rebels-convict. "Come on, now, and without noise."

Within five minutes they had swarmed aboard, the entire twenty of them overflowing from that
narrow gallery and crouching on the quarter-deck itself. Lights showed ahead. Under the great
lantern in the prow they saw the black figure of the other sentry, pacing on the forecastle.
From below sounds reached them of the orgy on the gun-deck: a rich male voice was singing an
obscene ballad to which the others chanted in chorus:

"Y estos son los usos de Castilla y de Leon!"

"From what I've seen to-day I can well believe it," said Mr. Blood, and whispered: "Forward--after
me."

Crouching low, they glided, noiseless as shadows, to the quarter-deck rail, and thence slipped
without sound down into the waist. Two thirds of them were armed with muskets, some of which
they had found in the overseer's house, and others supplied from the secret hoard that Mr.
Blood had so laboriously assembled against the day of escape. The remainder were equipped with
knives and cutlasses.

In the vessel's waist they hung awhile, until Mr. Blood had satisfied himself that no other
sentinel showed above decks but that inconvenient fellow in the prow. Their first attention
must be for him. Mr. Blood, himself, crept forward with two companions, leaving the others
in the charge of that Nathaniel Hagthorpe whose sometime commission in the King's Navy gave
him the best title to this office.

Mr. Blood's absence was brief. When he rejoined his comrades there was no watch above the Spaniards'
decks.

Meanwhile the revellers below continued to make merry at their ease in the conviction of complete
security. The garrison of Barbados was overpowered and disarmed, and their companions were
ashore in complete possession of the town, glutting themselves hideously upon the fruits of
victory. What, then, was there to fear? Even when their quarters were invaded and they found
themselves surrounded by a score of wild, hairy, half-naked men, who--save that they appeared
once to have been white--looked like a horde of savages, the Spaniards could not believe their
eyes.

Who could have dreamed that a handful of forgotten plantation-slaves would have dared to take
so much upon themselves?

The half-drunken Spaniards, their laughter suddenly quenched, the song perishing on their lips,
stared, stricken and bewildered at the levelled muskets by which they were checkmated.

And then, from out of this uncouth pack of savages that beset them, stepped a slim, tall fellow
with light-blue eyes in a tawny face, eyes in which glinted the light of a wicked humour. He
addressed them in the purest Castilian.

"You will save yourselves pain and trouble by regarding yourselves my prisoners, and suffering
yourselves to be quietly bestowed out of harm's way."

"Name of God!" swore the gunner, which did no justice at all to an amazement beyond expression.

"If you please," said Mr. Blood, and thereupon those gentlemen of Spain were induced without
further trouble beyond a musket prod or two to drop through a scuttle to the deck below.

After that the rebels-convict refreshed themselves with the good things in the consumption
of which they had interrupted the Spaniards. To taste palatable Christian food after months
of salt fish and maize dumplings was in itself a feast to these unfortunates. But there were
no excesses. Mr. Blood saw to that, although it required all the firmness of which he was capable.

Dispositions were to be made without delay against that which must follow before they could
abandon themselves fully to the enjoyment of their victory. This, after all, was no more than
a preliminary skirmish, although it was one that afforded them the key to the situation. It
remained to dispose so that the utmost profit might be drawn from it. Those dispositions occupied
some very considerable portion of the night. But, at least, they were complete before the sun
peeped over the shoulder of Mount Hilibay to shed his light upon a day of some surprises.

It was soon after sunrise that the rebel-convict who paced the quarter-deck in Spanish corselet
and headpiece, a Spanish musket on his shoulder, announced the approach of a boat. It was Don
Diego de Espinosa y Valdez coming aboard with four great treasure-chests, containing each twenty-five
thousand pieces of eight, the ransom delivered to him at dawn by Governor Steed. He was accompanied
by his son, Don Esteban, and by six men who took the oars.

Aboard the frigate all was quiet and orderly as it should be. She rode at anchor, her larboard
to the shore, and the main ladder on her starboard side. Round to this came the boat with Don
Diego and his treasure. Mr. Blood had disposed effectively. It was not for nothing that he
had served under de Ruyter. The swings were waiting, and the windlass manned. Below, a gun-crew
held itself in readiness under the command of Ogle, who--as I have said--had been a gunner
in the Royal Navy before he went in for politics and followed the fortunes of the Duke of Monmouth.
He was a sturdy, resolute fellow who inspired confidence by the very confidence he displayed
in himself.

Don Diego mounted the ladder and stepped upon the deck, alone, and entirely unsuspicious. What
should the poor man suspect?

Before he could even look round, and survey this guard drawn up to receive him, a tap over
the head with a capstan bar efficiently handled by Hagthorpe put him to sleep without the least
fuss.

He was carried away to his cabin, whilst the treasure-chests, handled by the men he had left
in the boat, were being hauled to the deck. That being satisfactorily accomplished, Don Esteban
and the fellows who had manned the boat came up the ladder, one by one, to be handled with
the same quiet efficiency. Peter Blood had a genius for these things, and almost, I suspect,
an eye for the dramatic. Dramatic, certainly, was the spectacle now offered to the survivors
of the raid.

With Colonel Bishop at their head, and gout-ridden Governor Steed sitting on the ruins of a
wall beside him, they glumly watched the departure of the eight boats containing the weary
Spanish ruffians who had glutted themselves with rapine, murder, and violences unspeakable.

They looked on, between relief at this departure of their remorseless enemies, and despair
at the wild ravages which, temporarily at least, had wrecked the prosperity and happiness of
that little colony.

The boats pulled away from the shore, with their loads of laughing, jeering Spaniards, who
were still flinging taunts across the water at their surviving victims. They had come midway
between the wharf and the ship, when suddenly the air was shaken by the boom of a gun.

A round shot struck the water within a fathom of the foremost boat, sending a shower of spray
over its occupants. They paused at their oars, astounded into silence for a moment. Then speech
burst from them like an explosion. Angrily voluble they anathematized this dangerous carelessness
on the part of their gunner, who should know better than to fire a salute from a cannon loaded
with shot. They were still cursing him when a second shot, better aimed than the first, came
to crumple one of the boats into splinters, flinging its crew, dead and living, into the water.

But if it silenced these, it gave tongue, still more angry, vehement, and bewildered to the
crews of the other seven boats. From each the suspended oars stood out poised over the water,
whilst on their feet in the excitement the Spaniards screamed oaths at the ship, begging Heaven
and Hell to inform them what madman had been let loose among her guns.

Plump into their middle came a third shot, smashing a second boat with fearful execution. Followed
again a moment of awful silence, then among those Spanish pirates all was gibbering and jabbering
and splashing of oars, as they attempted to pull in every direction at once. Some were for
going ashore, others for heading straight to the vessel and there discovering what might be
amiss. That something was very gravely amiss there could be no further doubt, particularly
as whilst they discussed and fumed and cursed two more shots came over the water to account
for yet a third of their boats.

The resolute Ogle was making excellent practice, and fully justifying his claims to know something
of gunnery. In their consternation the Spaniards had simplified his task by huddling their
boats together.

After the fourth shot, opinion was no longer divided amongst them. As with one accord they
went about, or attempted to do so, for before they had accomplished it two more of their boats
had been sunk.

The three boats that remained, without concerning themselves with their more unfortunate fellows,
who were struggling in the water, headed back for the wharf at speed.

If the Spaniards understood nothing of all this, the forlorn islanders ashore understood still
less, until to help their wits they saw the flag of Spain come down from the mainmast of the
Cinco Llagas, and the flag of England soar to its empty place. Even then some bewilderment
persisted, and it was with fearful eyes that they observed the return of their enemies, who
might vent upon them the ferocity aroused by these extraordinary events.

Ogle, however, continued to give proof that his knowledge of gunnery was not of yesterday.
After the fleeing Spaniards went his shots. The last of their boats flew into splinters as
it touched the wharf, and its remains were buried under a shower of loosened masonry.

That was the end of this pirate crew, which not ten minutes ago had been laughingly counting
up the pieces of eight that would fall to the portion of each for his share in that act of
villainy. Close upon threescore survivors contrived to reach the shore. Whether they had cause
for congratulation, I am unable to say in the absence of any records in which their fate may
be traced. That lack of records is in itself eloquent. We know that they were made fast as
they landed, and considering the offence they had given I am not disposed to doubt that they
had every reason to regret the survival.

The mystery of the succour that had come at the eleventh hour to wreak vengeance upon the Spaniards,
and to preserve for the island the extortionate ransom of a hundred thousand pieces of eight,
remained yet to be probed. That the Cinco Llagas was now in friendly hands could no longer
be doubted after the proofs it had given. But who, the people of Bridgetown asked one another,
were the men in possession of her, and whence had they come? The only possible assumption ran
the truth very closely. A resolute party of islanders must have got aboard during the night,
and seized the ship. It remained to ascertain the precise identity of these mysterious saviours,
and do them fitting honour.

Upon this errand--Governor Steed's condition not permitting him to go in person--went Colonel
Bishop as the Governor's deputy, attended by two officers.

As he stepped from the ladder into the vessel's waist, the Colonel beheld there, beside the
main hatch, the four treasure-chests, the contents of one of which had been contributed almost
entirely by himself. It was a gladsome spectacle, and his eyes sparkled in beholding it.

Ranged on either side, athwart the deck, stood a score of men in two well-ordered files, with
breasts and backs of steel, polished Spanish morions on their heads, overshadowing their faces,
and muskets ordered at their sides.

Colonel Bishop could not be expected to recognize at a glance in these upright, furbished,
soldierly figures the ragged, unkempt scarecrows that but yesterday had been toiling in his
plantations. Still less could he be expected to recognize at once the courtly gentleman who
advanced to greet him--a lean, graceful gentleman, dressed in the Spanish fashion, all in black
with silver lace, a gold-hilted sword dangling beside him from a gold embroidered baldrick,
a broad castor with a sweeping plume set above carefully curled ringlets of deepest black.

"Be welcome aboard the Cinco Llagas, Colonel, darling," a voice vaguely familiar addressed
the planter. "We've made the best of the Spaniards' wardrobe in honour of this visit, though
it was scarcely yourself we had dared hope to expect. You find yourself among friends--old
friends of yours, all." The Colonel stared in stupefaction. Mr. Blood tricked out in all this
splendour--indulging therein his natural taste--his face carefully shaven, his hair as carefully
dressed, seemed transformed into a younger man. The fact is he looked no more than the thirty-three
years he counted to his age.

"Peter Blood!" It was an ejaculation of amazement. Satisfaction followed swiftly. "Was it you,
then...?"

"Myself it was--myself and these, my good friends and yours." Mr. Blood tossed back the fine
lace from his wrist, to wave a hand towards the file of men standing to attention there.

The Colonel looked more closely. "Gad's my life!" he crowed on a note of foolish jubilation.
"And it was with these fellows that you took the Spaniard and turned the tables on those dogs!
Oddswounds! It was heroic!"

"Heroic, is it? Bedad, it's epic! Ye begin to perceive the breadth and depth of my genius."

Colonel Bishop sat himself down on the hatch-coaming, took off his broad hat, and mopped his brow.

"Y'amaze me!" he gasped. "On my soul, y'amaze me! To have recovered the treasure and to have
seized this fine ship and all she'll hold! It will be something to set against the other losses
we have suffered. As Gad's my life, you deserve well for this."

"I am entirely of your opinion."

"Damme! You all deserve well, and damme, you shall find me grateful."

"That's as it should be," said Mr. Blood. "The question is how well we deserve, and how grateful
shall we find you?"

Colonel Bishop considered him. There was a shadow of surprise in his face.

"Why--his excellency shall write home an account of your exploit, and maybe some portion of
your sentences shall be remitted."

"The generosity of King James is well known," sneered Nathaniel Hagthorpe, who was standing
by, and amongst the ranged rebels-convict some one ventured to laugh.

Colonel Bishop started up. He was pervaded by the first pang of uneasiness. It occurred to
him that all here might not be as friendly as appeared.

"And there's another matter," Mr. Blood resumed. "There's a matter of a flogging that's due
to me. Ye're a man of your word in such matters, Colonel--if not perhaps in others--and ye
said, I think, that ye'd not leave a square inch of skin on my back."

The planter waved the matter aside. Almost it seemed to offend him.

"Tush! Tush! After this splendid deed of yours, do you suppose I can be thinking of such things?"

"I'm glad ye feel like that about it. But I'm thinking it's mighty lucky for me the Spaniards
didn't come to-day instead of yesterday, or it's in the same plight as Jeremy Pitt I'd be this
minute. And in that case where was the genius that would have turned the tables on these rascally
Spaniards?"

"Why speak of it now?"

Mr. Blood resumed: "ye'll please to understand that I must, Colonel, darling. Ye've worked
a deal of wickedness and cruelty in your time, and I want this to be a lesson to you, a lesson
that ye'll remember--for the sake of others who may come after us. There's Jeremy up there
in the round-house with a back that's every colour of the rainbow; and the poor lad'll not
be himself again for a month. And if it hadn't been for the Spaniards maybe it's dead he'd
be by now, and maybe myself with him."

Hagthorpe lounged forward. He was a fairly tall, vigorous man with a clear-cut, attractive
face which in itself announced his breeding.

"Why will you be wasting words on the hog?" wondered that sometime officer in the Royal Navy.
"Fling him overboard and have done with him."

The Colonel's eyes bulged in his head. "What the devil do you mean?" he blustered.

"It's the lucky man ye are entirely, Colonel, though ye don't guess the source of your good
fortune."

And now another intervened--the brawny, one-eyed Wolverstone, less mercifully disposed than
his more gentlemanly fellow-convict.

"String him up from the yardarm," he cried, his deep voice harsh and angry, and more than one
of the slaves standing to their arms made echo.

Colonel Bishop trembled. Mr. Blood turned. He was quite calm.

"If you please, Wolverstone," said he, "I conduct affairs in my own way. That is the pact.
You'll please to remember it." His eyes looked along the ranks, making it plain that he addressed
them all. "I desire that Colonel Bishop should have his life. One reason is that I require
him as a hostage. If ye insist on hanging him, ye'll have to hang me with him, or in the alternative
I'll go ashore."

He paused. There was no answer. But they stood hang-dog and half-mutinous before him, save
Hagthorpe, who shrugged and smiled wearily.

Mr. Blood resumed: "Ye'll please to understand that aboard a ship there is one captain. So."
He swung again to the startled Colonel. "Though I promise you your life, I must--as you've
heard--keep you aboard as a hostage for the good behaviour of Governor Steed and what's left
of the fort until we put to sea."

"Until you..." Horror prevented Colonel Bishop from echoing the remainder of that incredible
speech.

"Just so," said Peter Blood, and he turned to the officers who had accompanied the Colonel.
"The boat is waiting, gentlemen. You'll have heard what I said. Convey it with my compliments
to his excellency."

"But, sir..." one of them began.

"There is no more to be said, gentlemen. My name is Blood--Captain Blood, if you please, of
this ship the Cinco Llagas, taken as a prize of war from Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez, who
is my prisoner aboard. You are to understand that I have turned the tables on more than the
Spaniards. There's the ladder. You'll find it more convenient than being heaved over the side,
which is what'll happen if you linger."

They went, though not without some hustling, regardless of the bellowings of Colonel Bishop,
whose monstrous rage was fanned by terror at finding himself at the mercy of these men of whose
cause to hate him he was very fully conscious.

A half-dozen of them, apart from Jeremy Pitt, who was utterly incapacitated for the present,
possessed a superficial knowledge of seamanship. Hagthorpe, although he had been a fighting
officer, untrained in navigation, knew how to handle a ship, and under his directions they
set about getting under way.

The anchor catted, and the mainsail unfurled, they stood out for the open before a gentle breeze,
without interference from the fort.

As they were running close to the headland east of the bay, Peter Blood returned to the Colonel,
who, under guard and panic-stricken, had dejectedly resumed his seat on the coamings of the
main batch.

"Can ye swim, Colonel?"

Colonel Bishop looked up. His great face was yellow and seemed in that moment of a preternatural
flabbiness; his beady eyes were beadier than ever.

"As your doctor, now, I prescribe a swim to cool the excessive heat of your humours." Blood
delivered the explanation pleasantly, and, receiving still no answer from the Colonel, continued:
"It's a mercy for you I'm not by nature as bloodthirsty as some of my friends here. And it's
the devil's own labour I've had to prevail upon them not to be vindictive. I doubt if ye're
worth the pains I've taken for you."

He was lying. He had no doubt at all. Had he followed his own wishes and instincts, he would
certainly have strung the Colonel up, and accounted it a meritorious deed. It was the thought
of Arabella Bishop that had urged him to mercy, and had led him to oppose the natural vindictiveness
of his fellow-slaves until he had been in danger of precipitating a mutiny. It was entirely
to the fact that the Colonel was her uncle, although he did not even begin to suspect such
a cause, that he owed such mercy as was now being shown him.

"You shall have a chance to swim for it," Peter Blood continued. "It's not above a quarter
of a mile to the headland yonder, and with ordinary luck ye should manage it. Faith, you're
fat enough to float. Come on! Now, don't be hesitating or it's a long voyage ye'll be going
with us, and the devil knows what may happen to you. You're not loved any more than you deserve."

Colonel Bishop mastered himself, and rose. A merciless despot, who had never known the need
for restraint in all these years, he was doomed by ironic fate to practise restraint in the
very moment when his feelings had reached their most violent intensity.

Peter Blood gave an order. A plank was run out over the gunwale, and lashed down.

"If you please, Colonel," said he, with a graceful flourish of invitation.

The Colonel looked at him, and there was hell in his glance. Then, taking his resolve, and
putting the best face upon it, since no other could help him here, he kicked off his shoes,
peeled off his fine coat of biscuit-coloured taffetas, and climbed upon the plank.

A moment he paused, steadied by a hand that clutched the ratlines, looking down in terror at
the green water rushing past some five-and-twenty feet below.

"Just take a little walk, Colonel, darling," said a smooth, mocking voice behind him.

Still clinging, Colonel Bishop looked round in hesitation, and saw the bulwarks lined with
swarthy faces--the faces of men that as lately as yesterday would have turned pale under his
frown, faces that were now all wickedly agrin.

For a moment rage stamped out his fear. He cursed them aloud venomously and incoherently, then
loosed his hold and stepped out upon the plank. Three steps he took before he lost his balance
and went tumbling into the green depths below.

When he came to the surface again, gasping for air, the Cinco Llagas was already some furlongs
to leeward. But the roaring cheer of mocking valediction from the rebels-convict reached him
across the water, to drive the iron of impotent rage deeper into his soul.

CHAPTER X. DON DIEGO

Don Diego de Espinosa y Valdez awoke, and with languid eyes in aching head, he looked round
the cabin, which was flooded with sunlight from the square windows astern. Then he uttered
a moan, and closed his eyes again, impelled to this by the monstrous ache in his head. Lying
thus, he attempted to think, to locate himself in time and space. But between the pain in his
head and the confusion in his mind, he found coherent thought impossible.

An indefinite sense of alarm drove him to open his eyes again, and once more to consider his
surroundings.

There could be no doubt that he lay in the great cabin of his own ship, the Cinco Llagas, so
that his vague disquiet must be, surely, ill-founded. And yet, stirrings of memory coming now
to the assistance of reflection, compelled him uneasily to insist that here something was not
as it should be. The low position of the sun, flooding the cabin with golden light from those
square ports astern, suggested to him at first that it was early morning, on the assumption
that the vessel was headed westward. Then the alternative occurred to him. They might be sailing
eastward, in which case the time of day would be late afternoon. That they were sailing he
could feel from the gentle forward heave of the vessel under him. But how did they come to
be sailing, and he, the master, not to know whether their course lay east or west, not to be
able to recollect whither they were bound?

His mind went back over the adventure of yesterday, if of yesterday it was. He was clear on
the matter of the easily successful raid upon the Island of Barbados; every detail stood vividly
in his memory up to the moment at which, returning aboard, he had stepped on to his own deck
again. There memory abruptly and inexplicably ceased.

He was beginning to torture his mind with conjecture, when the door opened, and to Don Diego's
increasing mystification he beheld his best suit of clothes step into the cabin. It was a singularly
elegant and characteristically Spanish suit of black taffetas with silver lace that had been
made for him a year ago in Cadiz, and he knew each detail of it so well that it was impossible
he could now be mistaken.

The suit paused to close the door, then advanced towards the couch on which Don Diego was extended,
and inside the suit came a tall, slender gentleman of about Don Diego's own height and shape.
Seeing the wide, startled eyes of the Spaniard upon him, the gentleman lengthened his stride.

"Awake, eh?" said he in Spanish.

The recumbent man looked up bewildered into a pair of light-blue eyes that regarded him out
of a tawny, sardonic face set in a cluster of black ringlets. But he was too bewildered to
make any answer.

The stranger's fingers touched the top of Don Diego's head, whereupon Don Diego winced and
cried out in pain.

"Tender, eh?" said the stranger. He took Don Diego's wrist between thumb and second finger.
And then, at last, the intrigued Spaniard spoke.

"Are you a doctor?"

"Among other things." The swarthy gentleman continued his study of the patient's pulse. "Firm
and regular," he announced at last, and dropped the wrist. "You've taken no great harm."

Don Diego struggled up into a sitting position on the red velvet couch.

"Who the devil are you?" he asked. "And what the devil are you doing in my clothes and aboard
my ship?"

The level black eyebrows went up, a faint smile curled the lips of the long mouth.

"You are still delirious, I fear. This is not your ship. This is my ship, and these are my
clothes."

"Your ship?" quoth the other, aghast, and still more aghast he added: "Your clothes? But...
then...." Wildly his eyes looked about him. They scanned the cabin once again, scrutinizing
each familiar object. "Am I mad?" he asked at last. "Surely this ship is the Cinco Llagas?"

"The Cinco Llagas it is."

"Then...." The Spaniard broke off. His glance grew still more troubled. "Valga me Dios!" he
cried out, like a man in anguish. "Will you tell me also that you are Don Diego de Espinosa?"

"Oh, no, my name is Blood--Captain Peter Blood. This ship, like this handsome suit of clothes,
is mine by right of conquest. Just as you, Don Diego, are my prisoner."

Startling as was the explanation, yet it proved soothing to Don Diego, being so much less startling
than the things he was beginning to imagine.

"But... Are you not Spanish, then?"

"You flatter my Castilian accent. I have the honour to be Irish. You were thinking that a miracle
had happened. So it has--a miracle wrought by my genius, which is considerable."

Succinctly now Captain Blood dispelled the mystery by a relation of the facts. It was a narrative
that painted red and white by turns the Spaniard's countenance. He put a hand to the back of
his head, and there discovered, in confirmation of the story, a lump as large as a pigeon's
egg. Lastly, he stared wild-eyed at the sardonic Captain Blood.

"And my son? What of my son?" he cried out. "He was in the boat that brought me aboard."

"Your son is safe; he and the boat's crew together with your gunner and his men are snugly
in irons under hatches."

Don Diego sank back on the couch, his glittering dark eyes fixed upon the tawny face above
him. He composed himself. After all, he possessed the stoicism proper to his desperate trade.
The dice had fallen against him in this venture. The tables had been turned upon him in the
very moment of success. He accepted the situation with the fortitude of a fatalist.

With the utmost calm he enquired:

"And now, Senior Capitan?"

"And now," said Captain Blood--to give him the title he had assumed--"being a humane man, I
am sorry to find that ye're not dead from the tap we gave you. For it means that you'll be
put to the trouble of dying all over again."

"Ah!" Don Diego drew a deep breath. "But is that necessary?" he asked, without apparent perturbation.

Captain Blood's blue eyes approved his bearing. "Ask yourself," said he. "Tell me, as an experienced
and bloody pirate, what in my place would you do, yourself?"

"Ah, but there is a difference." Don Diego sat up to argue the matter. "It lies in the fact
that you boast yourself a humane man."

Captain Blood perched himself on the edge of the long oak table. "But I am not a fool," said
he, "and I'll not allow a natural Irish sentimentality to stand in the way of my doing what
is necessary and proper. You and your ten surviving scoundrels are a menace on this ship. More
than that, she is none so well found in water and provisions. True, we are fortunately a small
number, but you and your party inconveniently increase it. So that on every hand, you see,
prudence suggests to us that we should deny ourselves the pleasure of your company, and, steeling
our soft hearts to the inevitable, invite you to be so obliging as to step over the side."

"I see," said the Spaniard pensively. He swung his legs from the couch, and sat now upon the
edge of it, his elbows on his knees. He had taken the measure of his man, and met him with
a mock-urbanity and a suave detachment that matched his own. "I confess," he admitted, "that
there is much force in what you say."

"You take a load from my mind," said Captain Blood. "I would not appear unnecessarily harsh,
especially since I and my friends owe you so very much. For, whatever it may have been to others,
to us your raid upon Barbados was most opportune. I am glad, therefore, that you agree the
I have no choice."

"But, my friend, I did not agree so much."

"If there is any alternative that you can suggest, I shall be most happy to consider it."

Don Diego stroked his pointed black beard.

"Can you give me until morning for reflection? My head aches so damnably that I am incapable
of thought. And this, you will admit, is a matter that asks serious thought."

Captain Blood stood up. From a shelf he took a half-hour glass, reversed it so that the bulb
containing the red sand was uppermost, and stood it on the table.

"I am sorry to press you in such a matter, Don Diego, but one glass is all that I can give
you. If by the time those sands have run out you can propose no acceptable alternative, I shall
most reluctantly be driven to ask you to go over the side with your friends."

Captain Blood bowed, went out, and locked the door. Elbows on his knees and face in his hands,
Don Diego sat watching the rusty sands as they filtered from the upper to the lower bulb. And
what time he watched, the lines in his lean brown face grew deeper. Punctually as the last
grains ran out, the door reopened.

The Spaniard sighed, and sat upright to face the returning Captain Blood with the answer for
which he came.

"I have thought of an alternative, sir captain; but it depends upon your charity. It is that
you put us ashore on one of the islands of this pestilent archipelago, and leave us to shift
for ourselves."

Captain Blood pursed his lips. "It has its difficulties," said he slowly.

"I feared it would be so." Don Diego sighed again, and stood up. "Let us say no more."

The light-blue eyes played over him like points of steel.

"You are not afraid to die, Don Diego?"

The Spaniard threw back his head, a frown between his eyes.

"The question is offensive, sir."

"Then let me put it in another way--perhaps more happily: You do not desire to live?"

"Ah, that I can answer. I do desire to live; and even more do I desire that my son may live.
But the desire shall not make a coward of me for your amusement, master mocker." It was the
first sign he had shown of the least heat or resentment.

Captain Blood did not directly answer. As before he perched himself on the corner of the table.

"Would you be willing, sir, to earn life and liberty--for yourself, your son, and the other
Spaniards who are on board?"

"To earn it?" said Don Diego, and the watchful blue eyes did not miss the quiver that ran through
him. "To earn it, do you say? Why, if the service you would propose is one that cannot hurt
my honour...."

"Could I be guilty of that?" protested the Captain. "I realize that even a pirate has his honour."
And forthwith he propounded his offer. "If you will look from those windows, Don Diego, you
will see what appears to be a cloud on the horizon. That is the island of Barbados well astern.
All day we have been sailing east before the wind with but one intent--to set as great a distance
between Barbados and ourselves as possible. But now, almost out of sight of land, we are in
a difficulty. The only man among us schooled in the art of navigation is fevered, delirious,
in fact, as a result of certain ill-treatment he received ashore before we carried him away
with us. I can handle a ship in action, and there are one or two men aboard who can assist
me; but of the higher mysteries of seamanship and of the art of finding a way over the trackless
wastes of ocean, we know nothing. To hug the land, and go blundering about what you so aptly
call this pestilent archipelago, is for us to court disaster, as you can perhaps conceive.
And so it comes to this: We desire to make for the Dutch settlement of Curacao as straightly
as possible. Will you pledge me your honour, if I release you upon parole, that you will navigate
us thither? If so, we will release you and your surviving men upon arrival there."

Don Diego bowed his head upon his breast, and strode away in thought to the stern windows.
There he stood looking out upon the sunlit sea and the dead water in the great ship's wake--his
ship, which these English dogs had wrested from him; his ship, which he was asked to bring
safely into a port where she would be completely lost to him and refitted perhaps to make war
upon his kin. That was in one scale; in the other were the lives of sixteen men. Fourteen of
them mattered little to him, but the remaining two were his own and his son's.

He turned at length, and his back being to the light, the Captain could not see how pale his
face had grown.

"I accept," he said.

CHAPTER XI. FILIAL PIETY

By virtue of the pledge he had given, Don Diego de Espinosa enjoyed the freedom of the ship
that had been his, and the navigation which he had undertaken was left entirely in his hands.
And because those who manned her were new to the seas of the Spanish Main, and because even
the things that had happened in Bridgetown were not enough to teach them to regard every Spaniard
as a treacherous, cruel dog to be slain at sight, they used him with the civility which his
own suave urbanity invited. He took his meals in the great cabin with Blood and the three officers
elected to support him: Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Dyke.

They found Don Diego an agreeable, even an amusing companion, and their friendly feeling towards
him was fostered by his fortitude and brave equanimity in this adversity.

That Don Diego was not playing fair it was impossible to suspect. Moreover, there was no conceivable
reason why he should not. And he had been of the utmost frankness with them. He had denounced
their mistake in sailing before the wind upon leaving Barbados. They should have left the island
to leeward, heading into the Caribbean and away from the archipelago. As it was, they would
now be forced to pass through this archipelago again so as to make Curacao, and this passage
was not to be accomplished without some measure of risk to themselves. At any point between
the islands they might come upon an equal or superior craft; whether she were Spanish or English
would be equally bad for them, and being undermanned they were in no case to fight. To lessen
this risk as far as possible, Don Diego directed at first a southerly and then a westerly course;
and so, taking a line midway between the islands of Tobago and Grenada, they won safely through
the danger-zone and came into the comparative security of the Caribbean Sea.

"If this wind holds," he told them that night at supper, after he had announced to them their
position, "we should reach Curacao inside three days."

For three days the wind held, indeed it freshened a little on the second, and yet when the
third night descended upon them they had still made no landfall. The Cinco Llagas was ploughing
through a sea contained on every side by the blue bowl of heaven. Captain Blood uneasily mentioned
it to Don Diego.

"It will be for to-morrow morning," he was answered with calm conviction.

"By all the saints, it is always 'to-morrow morning' with you Spaniards; and to-morrow never
comes, my friend."

"But this to-morrow is coming, rest assured. However early you may be astir, you shall see
land ahead, Don Pedro."

Captain Blood passed on, content, and went to visit Jerry Pitt, his patient, to whose condition
Don Diego owed his chance of life. For twenty-four hours now the fever had left the sufferer,
and under Peter Blood's dressings, his lacerated back was beginning to heal satisfactorily.
So far, indeed, was he recovered that he complained of his confinement, of the heat in his
cabin. To indulge him Captain Blood consented that he should take the air on deck, and so,
as the last of the daylight was fading from the sky, Jeremy Pitt came forth upon the Captain's arm.

Seated on the hatch-coamings, the Somersetshire lad gratefully filled his lungs with the cool
night air, and professed himself revived thereby. Then with the seaman's instinct his eyes
wandered to the darkling vault of heaven, spangled already with a myriad golden points of light.
Awhile he scanned it idly, vacantly; then, his attention became sharply fixed. He looked round
and up at Captain Blood, who stood beside him.

"D'ye know anything of astronomy, Peter?" quoth he.

"Astronomy, is it? Faith, now, I couldn't tell the Belt of Orion from the Girdle of Venus."

"Ah! And I suppose all the others of this lubberly crew share your ignorance."

"It would be more amiable of you to suppose that they exceed it."

Jeremy pointed ahead to a spot of light in the heavens over the starboard bow. "That is the
North Star," said he.

"Is it now? Glory be, I wonder ye can pick it out from the rest."

"And the North Star ahead almost over your starboard bow means that we're steering a course,
north, northwest, or maybe north by west, for I doubt if we are standing more than ten degrees
westward."

"And why shouldn't we?" wondered Captain Blood.

"You told me--didn't you?--that we came west of the archipelago between Tobago and Grenada,
steering for Curacao. If that were our present course, we should have the North Star abeam,
out yonder."

On the instant Mr. Blood shed his laziness. He stiffened with apprehension, and was about to
speak when a shaft of light clove the gloom above their heads, coming from the door of the
poop cabin which had just been opened. It closed again, and presently there was a step on the
companion. Don Diego was approaching. Captain Blood's fingers pressed Jerry's shoulder with
significance. Then he called the Don, and spoke to him in English as had become his custom
when others were present.

"Will ye settle a slight dispute for us, Don Diego?" said he lightly. "We are arguing, Mr.
Pitt and I, as to which is the North Star."

"So?" The Spaniard's tone was easy; there was almost a suggestion that laughter lurked behind
it, and the reason for this was yielded by his next sentence. "But you tell me Mr. Pitt he
is your navigant?"

"For lack of a better," laughed the Captain, good-humouredly contemptuous. "Now I am ready
to wager him a hundred pieces of eight that that is the North Star." And he flung out an arm
towards a point of light in the heavens straight abeam. He afterwards told Pitt that had Don
Diego confirmed him, he would have run him through upon that instant. Far from that, however,
the Spaniard freely expressed his scorn.

"You have the assurance that is of ignorance, Don Pedro; and you lose. The North Star is this
one." And he indicated it.

"You are sure?"

"But my dear Don Pedro!" The Spaniard's tone was one of amused protest. "But is it possible
that I mistake? Besides, is there not the compass? Come to the binnacle and see there what
course we make."

His utter frankness, and the easy manner of one who has nothing to conceal resolved at once
the doubt that had leapt so suddenly in the mind of Captain Blood. Pitt was satisfied less easily.

"In that case, Don Diego, will you tell me, since Curacao is our destination, why our course
is what it is?"

Again there was no faintest hesitation on Don Diego's part. "You have reason to ask," said
he, and sighed. "I had hope' it would not be observe'. I have been careless--oh, of a carelessness
very culpable. I neglect observation. Always it is my way. I make too sure. I count too much
on dead reckoning. And so to-day I find when at last I take out the quadrant that we do come
by a half-degree too much south, so that Curacao is now almost due north. That is what cause
the delay. But we will be there to-morrow."

The explanation, so completely satisfactory, and so readily and candidly forthcoming, left
no room for further doubt that Don Diego should have been false to his parole. And when presently
Don Diego had withdrawn again, Captain Blood confessed to Pitt that it was absurd to have suspected
him. Whatever his antecedents, he had proved his quality when he announced himself ready to
die sooner than enter into any undertaking that could hurt his honour or his country.

New to the seas of the Spanish Main and to the ways of the adventurers who sailed it, Captain
Blood still entertained illusions. But the next dawn was to shatter them rudely and for ever.

Coming on deck before the sun was up, he saw land ahead, as the Spaniard had promised them
last night. Some ten miles ahead it lay, a long coast-line filling the horizon east and west,
with a massive headland jutting forward straight before them. Staring at it, he frowned. He
had not conceived that Curacao was of such considerable dimensions. Indeed, this looked less
like an island than the main itself.

Beating out aweather, against the gentle landward breeze he beheld a great ship on their starboard
bow, that he conceived to be some three or four miles off, and--as well as he could judge her
at that distance--of a tonnage equal if not superior to their own. Even as he watched her she
altered her course, and going about came heading towards them, close-hauled.

A dozen of his fellows were astir on the forecastle, looking eagerly ahead, and the sound of
their voices and laughter reached him across the length of the stately Cinco Llagas.

"There," said a soft voice behind him in liquid Spanish, "is the Promised Land, Don Pedro."

It was something in that voice, a muffled note of exultation, that awoke suspicion in him,
and made whole the half-doubt he had been entertaining. He turned sharply to face Don Diego,
so sharply that the sly smile was not effaced from the Spaniard's countenance before Captain
Blood's eyes had flashed upon it.

"You find an odd satisfaction in the sight of it--all things considered," said Mr. Blood.

"Of course." The Spaniard rubbed his hands, and Mr. Blood observed that they were unsteady.
"The satisfaction of a mariner."

"Or of a traitor--which?" Blood asked him quietly. And as the Spaniard fell back before him
with suddenly altered countenance that confirmed his every suspicion, he flung an arm out in
the direction of the distant shore. "What land is that?" he demanded. "Will you have the effrontery
to tell me that is the coast of Curacao?"

He advanced upon Don Diego suddenly, and Don Diego, step by step, fell back. "Shall I tell
you what land it is? Shall I?" His fierce assumption of knowledge seemed to dazzle and daze
the Spaniard. For still Don Diego made no answer. And then Captain Blood drew a bow at a venture--or
not quite at a venture. Such a coast-line as that, if not of the main itself, and the main
he knew it could not be, must belong to either Cuba or Hispaniola. Now knowing Cuba to lie
farther north and west of the two, it followed, he reasoned swiftly, that if Don Diego meant
betrayal he would steer for the nearer of these Spanish territories. "That land, you treacherous,
forsworn Spanish dog, is the island of Hispaniola."

Having said it, he closely watched the swarthy face now overspread with pallor, to see the
truth or falsehood of his guess reflected there. But now the retreating Spaniard had come to
the middle of the quarter-deck, where the mizzen sail made a screen to shut them off from the
eyes of the Englishmen below. His lips writhed in a snarling smile.

"Ah, perro ingles! You know too much," he said under his breath, and sprang for the Captain's
throat.

Tight-locked in each other's arms, they swayed a moment, then together went down upon the deck,
the Spaniard's feet jerked from under him by the right leg of Captain Blood. The Spaniard had
depended upon his strength, which was considerable. But it proved no match for the steady muscles
of the Irishman, tempered of late by the vicissitudes of slavery. He had depended upon choking
the life out of Blood, and so gaining the half-hour that might be necessary to bring up that
fine ship that was beating towards them--a Spanish ship, perforce, since none other would be
so boldly cruising in these Spanish waters off Hispaniola. But all that Don Diego had accomplished
was to betray himself completely, and to no purpose. This he realized when he found himself
upon his back, pinned down by Blood, who was kneeling on his chest, whilst the men summoned
by their Captain's shout came clattering up the companion.

"Will I say a prayer for your dirty soul now, whilst I am in this position?" Captain Blood
was furiously mocking him.

But the Spaniard, though defeated, now beyond hope for himself, forced his lips to smile, and
gave back mockery for mockery.

"Who will pray for your soul, I wonder, when that galleon comes to lie board and board with you?"

"That galleon!" echoed Captain Blood with sudden and awful realization that already it was
too late to avoid the consequences of Don Diego's betrayal of them.

"That galleon," Don Diego repeated, and added with a deepening sneer: "Do you know what ship
it is? I will tell you. It is the Encarnacion, the flagship of Don Miguel de Espinosa, the
Lord Admiral of Castile, and Don Miguel is my brother. It is a very fortunate encounter. The
Almighty, you see, watches over the destinies of Catholic Spain."

There was no trace of humour or urbanity now in Captain Blood. His light eyes blazed: his face
was set.

He rose, relinquishing the Spaniard to his men. "Make him fast," he bade them. "Truss him,
wrist and heel, but don't hurt him--not so much as a hair of his precious head."

The injunction was very necessary. Frenzied by the thought that they were likely to exchange
the slavery from which they had so lately escaped for a slavery still worse, they would have
torn the Spaniard limb from limb upon the spot. And if they now obeyed their Captain and refrained,
it was only because the sudden steely note in his voice promised for Don Diego Valdez something
far more exquisite than death.

"You scum! You dirty pirate! You man of honour!" Captain Blood apostrophized his prisoner.

But Don Diego looked up at him and laughed.

"You underrated me." He spoke English, so that all might hear. "I tell you that I was not fear
death, and I show you that I was not fear it. You no understand. You just an English dog."

"Irish, if you please," Captain Blood corrected him. "And your parole, you tyke of Spain?"

"You think I give my parole to leave you sons of filth with this beautiful Spanish ship, to
go make war upon other Spaniards! Ha!" Don Diego laughed in his throat. "You fool! You can
kill me. Pish! It is very well. I die with my work well done. In less than an hour you will
be the prisoners of Spain, and the Cinco Llagas will go belong to Spain again."

Captain Blood regarded him steadily out of a face which, if impassive, had paled under its
deep tan. About the prisoner, clamant, infuriated, ferocious, the rebels-convict surged, almost
literally "athirst for his blood."

"Wait," Captain Blood imperiously commanded, and turning on his heel, he went aside to the
rail. As he stood there deep in thought, he was joined by Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Ogle
the gunner. In silence they stared with him across the water at that other ship. She had veered
a point away from the wind, and was running now on a line that must in the end converge with
that of the Cinco Llagas.

"In less than half-an-hour," said Blood presently, "we shall have her athwart our hawse, sweeping
our decks with her guns."

"We can fight," said the one-eyed giant with an oath.

"Fight!" sneered Blood. "Undermanned as we are, mustering a bare twenty men, in what case are
we to fight? No, there would be only one way. To persuade her that all is well aboard, that
we are Spaniards, so that she may leave us to continue on our course."

"And how is that possible?" Hagthorpe asked.

"It isn't possible," said Blood. "If it...." And then he broke off, and stood musing, his eyes
upon the green water. Ogle, with a bent for sarcasm, interposed a suggestion bitterly.

"We might send Don Diego de Espinosa in a boat manned by his Spaniards to assure his brother
the Admiral that we are all loyal subjects of his Catholic Majesty."

The Captain swung round, and for an instant looked as if he would have struck the gunner. Then
his expression changed: the light of inspiration Was in his glance.

"Bedad! ye've said it. He doesn't fear death, this damned pirate; but his son may take a different
view. Filial piety's mighty strong in Spain." He swung on his heel abruptly, and strode back
to the knot of men about his prisoner. "Here!" he shouted to them. "Bring him below." And he
led the way down to the waist, and thence by the booby hatch to the gloom of the 'tween-decks,
where the air was rank with the smell of tar and spun yarn. Going aft he threw open the door
of the spacious wardroom, and went in followed by a dozen of the hands with the pinioned Spaniard.
Every man aboard would have followed him but for his sharp command to some of them to remain
on deck with Hagthorpe.

In the ward-room the three stern chasers were in position, loaded, their muzzles thrusting
through the open ports, precisely as the Spanish gunners had left them.

"Here, Ogle, is work for you," said Blood, and as the burly gunner came thrusting forward through
the little throng of gaping men, Blood pointed to the middle chaser; "Have that gun hauled
back," he ordered.

When this was done, Blood beckoned those who held Don Diego.

"Lash him across the mouth of it," he bade them, and whilst, assisted by another two, they
made haste to obey, he turned to the others. "To the roundhouse, some of you, and fetch the
Spanish prisoners. And you, Dyke, go up and bid them set the flag of Spain aloft."

Don Diego, with his body stretched in an arc across the cannon's mouth, legs and arms lashed
to the carriage on either side of it, eyeballs rolling in his head, glared maniacally at Captain
Blood. A man may not fear to die, and yet be appalled by the form in which death comes to him.

From frothing lips he hurled blasphemies and insults at his tormentor.

"Foul barbarian! Inhuman savage! Accursed heretic! Will it not content you to kill me in some
Christian fashion?" Captain Blood vouchsafed him a malignant smile, before he turned to meet
the fifteen manacled Spanish prisoners, who were thrust into his presence.

Approaching, they had heard Don Diego's outcries; at close quarters now they beheld with horror-stricken
eyes his plight. From amongst them a comely, olive-skinned stripling, distinguished in bearing
and apparel from his companions, started forward with an anguished cry of "Father!"

Writhing in the arms that made haste to seize and hold him, he called upon heaven and hell
to avert this horror, and lastly, addressed to Captain Blood an appeal for mercy that was at
once fierce and piteous. Considering him, Captain Blood thought with satisfaction that he displayed
the proper degree of filial piety.

He afterwards confessed that for a moment he was in danger of weakening, that for a moment
his mind rebelled against the pitiless thing it had planned. But to correct the sentiment he
evoked a memory of what these Spaniards had performed in Bridgetown. Again he saw the white
face of that child Mary Traill as she fled in horror before the jeering ruffian whom he had
slain, and other things even more unspeakable seen on that dreadful evening rose now before
the eyes of his memory to stiffen his faltering purpose. The Spaniards had shown themselves
without mercy or sentiment or decency of any kind; stuffed with religion, they were without
a spark of that Christianity, the Symbol of which was mounted on the mainmast of the approaching
ship. A moment ago this cruel, vicious Don Diego had insulted the Almighty by his assumption
that He kept a specially benevolent watch over the destinies of Catholic Spain. Don Diego should
be taught his error.

Recovering the cynicism in which he had approached his task, the cynicism essential to its
proper performance, he commanded Ogle to kindle a match and remove the leaden apron from the
touch-hole of the gun that bore Don Diego. Then, as the younger Espinosa broke into fresh intercessions
mingled with imprecations, he wheeled upon him sharply.

"Peace!" he snapped. "Peace, and listen! It is no part of my intention to blow your father
to hell as he deserves, or indeed to take his life at all."

Having surprised the lad into silence by that promise--a promise surprising enough in all the
circumstances--he proceeded to explain his aims in that faultless and elegant Castilian of
which he was fortunately master--as fortunately for Don Diego as for himself.

"It is your father's treachery that has brought us into this plight and deliberately into risk
of capture and death aboard that ship of Spain. Just as your father recognized his brother's
flagship, so will his brother have recognized the Cinco Llagas. So far, then, all is well.
But presently the Encarnacion will be sufficiently close to perceive that here all is not as
it should be. Sooner or later, she must guess or discover what is wrong, and then she will
open fire or lay us board and board. Now, we are in no case to fight, as your father knew when
he ran us into this trap. But fight we will, if we are driven to it. We make no tame surrender
to the ferocity of Spain."

He laid his hand on the breech of the gun that bore Don Diego.

"Understand this clearly: to the first shot from the Encarnacion this gun will fire the answer.
I make myself clear, I hope?"

White-faced and trembling, young Espinosa stared into the pitiless blue eyes that so steadily
regarded him.

"If it is clear?" he faltered, breaking the utter silence in which all were standing. "But,
name of God, how should it be clear? How should I understand? Can you avert the fight? If you
know a way, and if I, or these, can help you to it--if that is what you mean--in Heaven's name
let me hear it."

"A fight would be averted if Don Diego de Espinosa were to go aboard his brother's ship, and
by his presence and assurances inform the Admiral that all is well with the Cinco Llagas, that
she is indeed still a ship of Spain as her flag now announces. But of course Don Diego cannot
go in person, because he is... otherwise engaged. He has a slight touch of fever--shall we
say?--that detains him in his cabin. But you, his son, may convey all this and some other matters
together with his homage to your uncle. You shall go in a boat manned by six of these Spanish
prisoners, and I--a distinguished Spaniard delivered from captivity in Barbados by your recent
raid--will accompany you to keep you in countenance. If I return alive, and without accident
of any kind to hinder our free sailing hence, Don Diego shall have his life, as shall every
one of you. But if there is the least misadventure, be it from treachery or ill-fortune--I
care not which--the battle, as I have had the honour to explain, will be opened on our side
by this gun, and your father will be the first victim of the conflict."

He paused a moment. There was a hum of approval from his comrades, an anxious stirring among
the Spanish prisoners. Young Espinosa stood before him, the colour ebbing and flowing in his
cheeks. He waited for some direction from his father. But none came. Don Diego's courage, it
seemed, had sadly waned under that rude test. He hung limply in his fearful bonds, and was
silent. Evidently he dared not encourage his son to defiance, and presumably was ashamed to
urge him to yield. Thus, he left decision entirely with the youth.

"Come," said Blood. "I have been clear enough, I think. What do you say?"

Don Esteban moistened his parched lips, and with the back of his hand mopped the anguish-sweat
from his brow. His eyes gazed wildly a moment upon the shoulders of his father, as if beseeching
guidance. But his father remained silent. Something like a sob escaped the boy.

"I... I accept," he answered at last, and swung to the Spaniards. "And you--you will accept
too," he insisted passionately. "For Don Diego's sake and for your own--for all our sakes.
If you do not, this man will butcher us all without mercy."

Since he yielded, and their leader himself counselled no resistance, why should they encompass
their own destruction by a gesture of futile heroism? They answered without much hesitation
that they would do as was required of them.

Blood turned, and advanced to Don Diego.

"I am sorry to inconvenience you in this fashion, but..." For a second he checked and frowned
as his eyes intently observed the prisoner. Then, after that scarcely perceptible pause, he
continued, "but I do not think that you have anything beyond this inconvenience to apprehend,
and you may depend upon me to shorten it as far as possible." Don Diego made him no answer.

Peter Blood waited a moment, observing him; then he bowed and stepped back.

CHAPTER XII. DON PEDRO SANGRE

The Cinco Llagas and the Encarnacion, after a proper exchange of signals, lay hove to within
a quarter of a mile of each other, and across the intervening space of gently heaving, sunlit
waters sped a boat from the former, manned by six Spanish seamen and bearing in her stern sheets
Don Esteban de Espinosa and Captain Peter Blood.

She also bore two treasure-chests containing fifty thousand pieces of eight. Gold has at all
times been considered the best of testimonies of good faith, and Blood was determined that
in all respects appearances should be entirely on his side. His followers had accounted this
a supererogation of pretence. But Blood's will in the matter had prevailed. He carried further
a bulky package addressed to a grande of Spain, heavily sealed with the arms of Espinosa--another
piece of evidence hastily manufactured in the cabin of the Cinco Llagas--and he was spending
these last moments in completing his instructions to his young companion.

Don Esteban expressed his last lingering uneasiness:

"But if you should betray yourself?" he cried.

"It will be unfortunate for everybody. I advised your father to say a prayer for our success.
I depend upon you to help me more materially."

"I will do my best. God knows I will do my best," the boy protested.

Blood nodded thoughtfully, and no more was said until they bumped alongside the towering mass
of the Encarnadon. Up the ladder went Don Esteban closely followed by Captain Blood. In the
waist stood the Admiral himself to receive them, a handsome, self-sufficient man, very tall
and stiff, a little older and greyer than Don Diego, whom he closely resembled. He was supported
by four officers and a friar in the black and white habit of St. Dominic.

Don Miguel opened his arms to his nephew, whose lingering panic he mistook for pleasurable
excitement, and having enfolded him to his bosom turned to greet Don Esteban's companion.

Peter Blood bowed gracefully, entirely at his ease, so far as might be judged from appearances.

"I am," he announced, making a literal translation of his name, "Don Pedro Sangre, an unfortunate
gentleman of Leon, lately delivered from captivity by Don Esteban's most gallant father." And
in a few words he sketched the imagined conditions of his capture by, and deliverance from,
those accursed heretics who held the island of Barbados. "Benedicamus Domino," said the friar
to his tale.

"Ex hoc nunc et usque in seculum," replied Blood, the occasional papist, with lowered eyes.

The Admiral and his attending officers gave him a sympathetic hearing and a cordial welcome.
Then came the dreaded question.

"But where is my brother? Why has he not come, himself, to greet me?"

It was young Espinosa who answered this:

"My father is afflicted at denying himself that honour and pleasure. But unfortunately, sir
uncle, he is a little indisposed--oh, nothing grave; merely sufficient to make him keep his
cabin. It is a little fever, the result of a slight wound taken in the recent raid upon Barbados,
which resulted in this gentleman's happy deliverance."

"Nay, nephew, nay," Don Miguel protested with ironic repudiation. "I can have no knowledge
of these things. I have the honour to represent upon the seas His Catholic Majesty, who is
at peace with the King of England. Already you have told me more than it is good for me to
know. I will endeavour to forget it, and I will ask you, sirs," he added, glancing at his officers,
"to forget it also." But he winked into the twinkling eyes of Captain Blood; then added matter
that at once extinguished that twinkle. "But since Diego cannot come to me, why, I will go
across to him."

For a moment Don Esteban's face was a mask of pallid fear. Then Blood was speaking in a lowered,
confidential voice that admirably blended suavity, impressiveness, and sly mockery.

"If you please, Don Miguel, but that is the very thing you must not do--the very thing Don
Diego does not wish you to do. You must not see him until his wounds are healed. That is his
own wish. That is the real reason why he is not here. For the truth is that his wounds are
not so grave as to have prevented his coming. It was his consideration of himself and the false
position in which you would be placed if you had direct word from him of what has happened.
As your excellency has said, there is peace between His Catholic Majesty and the King of England,
and your brother Don Diego...." He paused a moment. "I am sure that I need say no more. What
you hear from us is no more than a mere rumour. Your excellency understands."

His excellency frowned thoughtfully. "I understand... in part," said he.

Captain Blood had a moment's uneasiness. Did the Spaniard doubt his bona fides? Yet in dress
and speech he knew himself to be impeccably Spanish, and was not Don Esteban there to confirm
him? He swept on to afford further confirmation before the Admiral could say another word.

"And we have in the boat below two chests containing fifty thousand pieces of eight, which
we are to deliver to your excellency."

His excellency jumped; there was a sudden stir among his officers.

"They are the ransom extracted by Don Diego from the Governor of...."

"Not another word, in the name of Heaven!" cried the Admiral in alarm. "My brother wishes me
to assume charge of this money, to carry it to Spain for him? Well, that is a family matter
between my brother and myself. So, it can be done. But I must not know...." He broke off. "Hum!
A glass of Malaga in my cabin, if you please," he invited them, "whilst the chests are being
hauled aboard."

He gave his orders touching the embarkation of these chests, then led the way to his regally
appointed cabin, his four officers and the friar following by particular invitation.

Seated at table there, with the tawny wine before them, and the servant who had poured it withdrawn,
Don Miguel laughed and stroked his pointed, grizzled beard.

"Virgen santisima! That brother of mine has a mind that thinks of everything. Left to myself,
I might have committed a fine indiscretion by venturing aboard his ship at such a moment. I
might have seen things which as Admiral of Spain it would be difficult for me to ignore."

Both Esteban and Blood made haste to agree with him, and then Blood raised his glass, and drank
to the glory of Spain and the damnation of the besotted James who occupied the throne of England.
The latter part of his toast was at least sincere.

The Admiral laughed.

"Sir, sir, you need my brother here to curb your imprudences. You should remember that His
Catholic Majesty and the King of England are very good friends. That is not a toast to propose
in this cabin. But since it has been proposed, and by one who has such particular personal
cause to hate these English hounds, why, we will honour it--but unofficially."

They laughed, and drank the damnation of King James--quite unofficially, but the more fervently
on that account. Then Don Esteban, uneasy on the score of his father, and remembering that
the agony of Don Diego was being protracted with every moment that they left him in his dreadful
position, rose and announced that they must be returning.

"My father," he explained, "is in haste to reach San Domingo. He desired me to stay no longer
than necessary to embrace you. If you will give us leave, then, sir uncle."

In the circumstances "sir uncle" did not insist.

As they returned to the ship's side, Blood's eyes anxiously scanned the line of seamen leaning
over the bulwarks in idle talk with the Spaniards in the cock-boat that waited at the ladder's
foot. But their manner showed him that there was no ground for his anxiety. The boat's crew
had been wisely reticent.

The Admiral took leave of them--of Esteban affectionately, of Blood ceremoniously.

"I regret to lose you so soon, Don Pedro. I wish that you could have made a longer visit to
the Encarnacion."

"I am indeed unfortunate," said Captain Blood politely.

"But I hope that we may meet again."

"That is to flatter me beyond all that I deserve."

They reached the boat; and she cast off from the great ship. As they were pulling away, the
Admiral waving to them from the taffrail, they heard the shrill whistle of the bo'sun piping
the hands to their stations, and before they had reached the Cinco Llagas, they beheld the
Encarnacion go about under sail. She dipped her flag to them, and from her poop a gun fired
a salute.

Aboard the Cinco Llagas some one--it proved afterwards to be Hagthorpe--had the wit to reply
in the same fashion. The comedy was ended. Yet there was something else to follow as an epilogue,
a thing that added a grim ironic flavour to the whole.

As they stepped into the waist of the Cinco Llagas, Hagthorpe advanced to receive them. Blood
observed the set, almost scared expression on his face.

"I see that you've found it," he said quietly.

Hagthorpe's eyes looked a question. But his mind dismissed whatever thought it held.

"Don Diego..." he was beginning, and then stopped, and looked curiously at Blood.

Noting the pause and the look, Esteban bounded forward, his face livid.

"Have you broken faith, you curs? Has he come to harm?" he cried--and the six Spaniards behind
him grew clamorous with furious questionings.

"We do not break faith," said Hagthorpe firmly, so firmly that he quieted them. "And in this
case there was not the need. Don Diego died in his bonds before ever you reached the Encarnacion."

Peter Blood said nothing.

"Died?" screamed Esteban. "You killed him, you mean. Of what did he die?"

Hagthorpe looked at the boy. "If I am a judge," he said, "Don Diego died of fear."

Don Esteban struck Hagthorpe across the face at that, and Hagthorpe would have struck back,
but that Blood got between, whilst his followers seized the lad.

"Let be," said Blood. "You provoked the boy by your insult to his father."

"I was not concerned to insult," said Hagthorpe, nursing his cheek. "It is what has happened.
Come and look."

"I have seen," said Blood. "He died before I left the Cinco Llagas. He was hanging dead in
his bonds when I spoke to him before leaving."

"What are you saying?" cried Esteban.

Blood looked at him gravely. Yet for all his gravity he seemed almost to smile, though without
mirth.

"If you had known that, eh?" he asked at last. For a moment Don Esteban stared at him wide-eyed,
incredulous. "I don't believe you," he said at last.

"Yet you may. I am a doctor, and I know death when I see it."

Again there came a pause, whilst conviction sank into the lad's mind.

"If I had known that," he said at last in a thick voice, "you would be hanging from the yardarm
of the Encarnacion at this moment."

"I know," said Blood. "I am considering it--the profit that a man may find in the ignorance
of others."

"But you'll hang there yet," the boy raved.

Captain Blood shrugged, and turned on his heel. But he did not on that account disregard the
words, nor did Hagthorpe, nor yet the others who overheard them, as they showed at a council
held that night in the cabin.

This council was met to determine what should be done with the Spanish prisoners. Considering
that Curacao now lay beyond their reach, as they were running short of water and provisions,
and also that Pitt was hardly yet in case to undertake the navigation of the vessel, it had
been decided that, going east of Hispaniola, and then sailing along its northern coast, they
should make for Tortuga, that haven of the buccaneers, in which lawless port they had at least
no danger of recapture to apprehend. It was now a question whether they should convey the Spaniards
thither with them, or turn them off in a boat to make the best of their way to the coast of
Hispaniola, which was but ten miles off. This was the course urged by Blood himself.

"There's nothing else to be done," he insisted. "In Tortuga they would be flayed alive."

"Which is less than the swine deserve," growled Wolverstone.

"And you'll remember, Peter," put in Hagthorpe, "that boy's threat to you this morning. If
he escapes, and carries word of all this to his uncle, the Admiral, the execution of that threat
will become more than possible."

It says much for Peter Blood that the argument should have left him unmoved. It is a little
thing, perhaps, but in a narrative in which there is so much that tells against him, I cannot--since
my story is in the nature of a brief for the defence--afford to slur a circumstance that is
so strongly in his favour, a circumstance revealing that the cynicism attributed to him proceeded
from his reason and from a brooding over wrongs rather than from any natural instincts. "I
care nothing for his threats."

"You should," said Wolverstone. "The wise thing'd be to hang him, along o' all the rest."

"It is not human to be wise," said Blood. "It is much more human to err, though perhaps exceptional
to err on the side of mercy. We'll be exceptional. Oh, faugh! I've no stomach for cold-blooded
killing. At daybreak pack the Spaniards into a boat with a keg of water and a sack of dumplings,
and let them go to the devil."

That was his last word on the subject, and it prevailed by virtue of the authority they had
vested in him, and of which he had taken so firm a grip. At daybreak Don Esteban and his followers
were put off in a boat.

Two days later, the Cinco Llagas sailed into the rock-bound bay of Cayona, which Nature seemed
to have designed for the stronghold of those who had appropriated it.

CHAPTER XIII. TORTUGA

It is time fully to disclose the fact that the survival of the story of Captain Blood's exploits
is due entirely to the industry of Jeremy Pitt, the Somersetshire shipmaster. In addition to
his ability as a navigator, this amiable young man appears to have wielded an indefatigable
pen, and to have been inspired to indulge its fluency by the affection he very obviously bore
to Peter Blood.

He kept the log of the forty-gun frigate Arabella, on which he served as master, or, as we
should say to-day, navigating officer, as no log that I have seen was ever kept. It runs into
some twenty-odd volumes of assorted sizes, some of which are missing altogether and others
of which are so sadly depleted of leaves as to be of little use. But if at times in the laborious
perusal of them--they are preserved in the library of Mr. James Speke of Comerton--I have inveighed
against these lacunae, at others I have been equally troubled by the excessive prolixity of
what remains and the difficulty of disintegrating from the confused whole the really essential
parts.

I have a suspicion that Esquemeling--though how or where I can make no surmise--must have obtained
access to these records, and that he plucked from them the brilliant feathers of several exploits
to stick them into the tail of his own hero, Captain Morgan. But that is by the way. I mention
it chiefly as a warning, for when presently I come to relate the affair of Maracaybo, those
of you who have read Esquemeling may be in danger of supposing that Henry Morgan really performed
those things which here are veraciously attributed to Peter Blood. I think, however, that when
you come to weigh the motives actuating both Blood and the Spanish Admiral, in that affair,
and when you consider how integrally the event is a part of Blood's history--whilst merely
a detached incident in Morgan's--you will reach my own conclusion as to which is the real plagiarist.

The first of these logs of Pitt's is taken up almost entirely with a retrospective narrative
of the events up to the time of Blood's first coming to Tortuga. This and the Tannatt Collection
of State Trials are the chief--though not the only--sources of my history so far.

Pitt lays great stress upon the fact that it was the circumstances upon which I have dwelt,
and these alone, that drove Peter Blood to seek an anchorage at Tortuga. He insists at considerable
length, and with a vehemence which in itself makes it plain that an opposite opinion was held
in some quarters, that it was no part of the design of Blood or of any of his companions in
misfortune to join hands with the buccaneers who, under a semi-official French protection,
made of Tortuga a lair whence they could sally out to drive their merciless piratical trade
chiefly at the expense of Spain.

It was, Pitt tells us, Blood's original intention to make his way to France or Holland. But
in the long weeks of waiting for a ship to convey him to one or the other of these countries,
his resources dwindled and finally vanished. Also, his chronicler thinks that he detected signs
of some secret trouble in his friend, and he attributes to this the abuses of the potent West
Indian spirit of which Blood became guilty in those days of inaction, thereby sinking to the
level of the wild adventurers with whom ashore he associated.

I do not think that Pitt is guilty in this merely of special pleading, that he is putting forward
excuses for his hero. I think that in those days there was a good deal to oppress Peter Blood.
There was the thought of Arabella Bishop--and that this thought loomed large in his mind we
are not permitted to doubt. He was maddened by the tormenting lure of the unattainable. He
desired Arabella, yet knew her beyond his reach irrevocably and for all time. Also, whilst
he may have desired to go to France or Holland, he had no clear purpose to accomplish when
he reached one or the other of these countries. He was, when all is said, an escaped slave,
an outlaw in his own land and a homeless outcast in any other. There remained the sea, which
is free to all, and particularly alluring to those who feel themselves at war with humanity.
And so, considering the adventurous spirit that once already had sent him a-roving for the
sheer love of it, considering that this spirit was heightened now by a recklessness begotten
of his outlawry, that his training and skill in militant seamanship clamorously supported the
temptations that were put before him, can you wonder, or dare you blame him, that in the end
he succumbed? And remember that these temptations proceeded not only from adventurous buccaneering
acquaintances in the taverns of that evil haven of Tortuga, but even from M. d'Ogeron, the
governor of the island, who levied as his harbour dues a percentage of one tenth of all spoils
brought into the bay, and who profited further by commissions upon money which he was desired
to convert into bills of exchange upon France.

A trade that might have worn a repellent aspect when urged by greasy, half-drunken adventurers,
boucan-hunters, lumbermen, beach-combers, English, French, and Dutch, became a dignified, almost
official form of privateering when advocated by the courtly, middle-aged gentleman who in representing
the French West India Company seemed to represent France herself.

Moreover, to a man--not excluding Jeremy Pitt himself, in whose blood the call of the sea was
insistent and imperative--those who had escaped with Peter Blood from the Barbados plantations,
and who, consequently, like himself, knew not whither to turn, were all resolved upon joining
the great Brotherhood of the Coast, as those rovers called themselves. And they united theirs
to the other voices that were persuading Blood, demanding that he should continue now in the
leadership which he had enjoyed since they had left Barbados, and swearing to follow him loyally
whithersoever he should lead them.

And so, to condense all that Jeremy has recorded in the matter, Blood ended by yielding to
external and internal pressure, abandoned himself to the stream of Destiny. "Fata viam invenerunt,"
is his own expression of it.

If he resisted so long, it was, I think, the thought of Arabella Bishop that restrained him.
That they should be destined never to meet again did not weigh at first, or, indeed, ever.
He conceived the scorn with which she would come to hear of his having turned pirate, and the
scorn, though as yet no more than imagined, hurt him as if it were already a reality. And even
when he conquered this, still the thought of her was ever present. He compromised with the
conscience that her memory kept so disconcertingly active. He vowed that the thought of her
should continue ever before him to help him keep his hands as clean as a man might in this
desperate trade upon which he was embarking. And so, although he might entertain no delusive
hope of ever winning her for his own, of ever even seeing her again, yet the memory of her
was to abide in his soul as a bitter-sweet, purifying influence. The love that is never to
be realized will often remain a man's guiding ideal. The resolve being taken, he went actively
to work. Ogeron, most accommodating of governors, advanced him money for the proper equipment
of his ship the Cinco Llagas, which he renamed the Arabella. This after some little hesitation,
fearful of thus setting his heart upon his sleeve. But his Barbados friends accounted it merely
an expression of the ever-ready irony in which their leader dealt.

To the score of followers he already possessed, he added threescore more, picking his men with
caution and discrimination--and he was an exceptional judge of men--from amongst the adventurers
of Tortuga. With them all he entered into the articles usual among the Brethren of the Coast
under which each man was to be paid by a share in the prizes captured. In other respects, however,
the articles were different. Aboard the Arabella there was to be none of the ruffianly indiscipline
that normally prevailed in buccaneering vessels. Those who shipped with him undertook obedience
and submission in all things to himself and to the officers appointed by election. Any to whom
this clause in the articles was distasteful might follow some other leader.

Towards the end of December, when the hurricane season had blown itself out, he put to sea
in his well-found, well-manned ship, and before he returned in the following May from a protracted
and adventurous cruise, the fame of Captain Peter Blood had run like ripples before the breeze
across the face of the Caribbean Sea. There was a fight in the Windward Passage at the outset
with a Spanish galleon, which had resulted in the gutting and finally the sinking of the Spaniard.
There was a daring raid effected by means of several appropriated piraguas upon a Spanish pearl
fleet in the Rio de la Hacha, from which they had taken a particularly rich haul of pearls.
There was an overland expedition to the goldfields of Santa Maria, on the Main, the full tale
of which is hardly credible, and there were lesser adventures through all of which the crew
of the Arabella came with credit and profit if not entirely unscathed.

And so it happened that before the Arabella came homing to Tortuga in the following May to
refit and repair--for she was not without scars, as you conceive--the fame of her and of Peter
Blood her captain had swept from the Bahamas to the Windward Isles, from New Providence to
Trinidad.

An echo of it had reached Europe, and at the Court of St. James's angry representations were
made by the Ambassador of Spain, to whom it was answered that it must not be supposed that
this Captain Blood held any commission from the King of England; that he was, in fact, a proscribed
rebel, an escaped slave, and that any measures against him by His Catholic Majesty would receive
the cordial approbation of King James II.

Don Miguel de Espinosa, the Admiral of Spain in the West Indies, and his nephew Don Esteban
who sailed with him, did not lack the will to bring the adventurer to the yardarm. With them
this business of capturing Blood, which was now an international affair, was also a family matter.

Spain, through the mouth of Don Miguel, did not spare her threats. The report of them reached
Tortuga, and with it the assurance that Don Miguel had behind him not only the authority of
his own nation, but that of the English King as well.

It was a brutum fulmen that inspired no terrors in Captain Blood. Nor was he likely, on account
of it, to allow himself to run to rust in the security of Tortuga. For what he had suffered
at the hands of Man he had chosen to make Spain the scapegoat. Thus he accounted that he served
a twofold purpose: he took compensation and at the same time served, not indeed the Stuart
King, whom he despised, but England and, for that matter, all the rest of civilized mankind
which cruel, treacherous, greedy, bigoted Castile sought to exclude from intercourse with the
New World.

One day as he sat with Hagthorpe and Wolverstone over a pipe and a bottle of rum in the stifling
reek of tar and stale tobacco of a waterside tavern, he was accosted by a splendid ruffian
in a gold-laced coat of dark-blue satin with a crimson sash, a foot wide, about the waist.

"C'est vous qu'on appelle Le Sang?" the fellow hailed him.

Captain Blood looked up to consider the questioner before replying. The man was tall and built
on lines of agile strength, with a swarthy, aquiline face that was brutally handsome. A diamond
of great price flamed on the indifferently clean hand resting on the pummel of his long rapier,
and there were gold rings in his ears, half-concealed by long ringlets of oily chestnut hair.

Captain Blood took the pipe-stem from between his lips.

"My name," he said, "is Peter Blood. The Spaniards know me for Don Pedro Sangre and a Frenchman
may call me Le Sang if he pleases."

"Good," said the gaudy adventurer in English, and without further invitation he drew up a stool
and sat down at that greasy table. "My name," he informed the three men, two of whom at least
were eyeing him askance, "it is Levasseur. You may have heard of me."

They had, indeed. He commanded a privateer of twenty guns that had dropped anchor in the bay
a week ago, manned by a crew mainly composed of French boucanhunters from Northern Hispaniola,
men who had good cause to hate the Spaniard with an intensity exceeding that of the English.
Levasseur had brought them back to Tortuga from an indifferently successful cruise. It would
need more, however, than lack of success to abate the fellow's monstrous vanity. A roaring,
quarrelsome, hard-drinking, hard-gaming scoundrel, his reputation as a buccaneer stood high
among the wild Brethren of the Coast. He enjoyed also a reputation of another sort. There was
about his gaudy, swaggering raffishness something that the women found singularly alluring.
That he should boast openly of his bonnes fortunes did not seem strange to Captain Blood; what
he might have found strange was that there appeared to be some measure of justification for
these boasts.

It was current gossip that even Mademoiselle d'Ogeron, the Governor's daughter, had been caught
in the snare of his wild attractiveness, and that Levasseur had gone the length of audacity
of asking her hand in marriage of her father. M. d'Ogeron had made him the only possible answer.
He had shown him the door. Levasseur had departed in a rage, swearing that he would make mademoiselle
his wife in the teeth of all the fathers in Christendom, and that M. d'Ogeron should bitterly
rue the affront he had put upon him.

This was the man who now thrust himself upon Captain Blood with a proposal of association,
offering him not only his sword, but his ship and the men who sailed in her.

A dozen years ago, as a lad of barely twenty, Levasseur had sailed with that monster of cruelty
L'Ollonais, and his own subsequent exploits bore witness and did credit to the school in which
he had been reared. I doubt if in his day there was a greater scoundrel among the Brethren
of the Coast than this Levasseur. And yet, repulsive though he found him, Captain Blood could
not deny that the fellow's proposals displayed boldness, imagination, and resource, and he
was forced to admit that jointly they could undertake operations of a greater magnitude than
was possible singly to either of them. The climax of Levasseur's project was to be a raid upon
the wealthy mainland city of Maracaybo; but for this, he admitted, six hundred men at the very
least would be required, and six hundred men were not to be conveyed in the two bottoms they
now commanded. Preliminary cruises must take place, having for one of their objects the capture
of further ships.

Because he disliked the man, Captain Blood would not commit himself at once. But because he
liked the proposal he consented to consider it. Being afterwards pressed by both Hagthorpe
and Wolverstone, who did not share his own personal dislike of the Frenchman, the end of the
matter was that within a week articles were drawn up between Levasseur and Blood, and signed
by them and--as was usual--by the chosen representatives of their followers.

These articles contained, inter alia, the common provisions that, should the two vessels separate,
a strict account must afterwards be rendered of all prizes severally taken, whilst the vessel
taking a prize should retain three fifths of its value, surrendering two fifths to its associate.
These shares were subsequently to be subdivided among the crew of each vessel, in accordance
with the articles already obtaining between each captain and his own men. For the rest, the
articles contained all the clauses that were usual, among which was the clause that any man
found guilty of abstracting or concealing any part of a prize, be it of the value of no more
than a peso, should be summarily hanged from the yardarm.

All being now settled they made ready for sea, and on the very eve of sailing, Levasseur narrowly
escaped being shot in a romantic attempt to scale the wall of the Governor's garden, with the
object of taking passionate leave of the infatuated Mademoiselle d'Ogeron. He desisted after
having been twice fired upon from a fragrant ambush of pimento trees where the Governor's guards
were posted, and he departed vowing to take different and very definite measures on his return.

That night he slept on board his ship, which with characteristic flamboyance he had named La
Foudre, and there on the following day he received a visit from Captain Blood, whom he greeted
half-mockingly as his admiral. The Irishman came to settle certain final details of which all
that need concern us is an understanding that, in the event of the two vessels becoming separated
by accident or design, they should rejoin each other as soon as might be at Tortuga.

Thereafter Levasseur entertained his admiral to dinner, and jointly they drank success to the
expedition, so copiously on the part of Levasseur that when the time came to separate he was
as nearly drunk as it seemed possible for him to be and yet retain his understanding.

Finally, towards evening, Captain Blood went over the side and was rowed back to his great
ship with her red bulwarks and gilded ports, touched into a lovely thing of flame by the setting
sun.

He was a little heavy-hearted. I have said that he was a judge of men, and his judgment of
Levasseur filled him with misgivings which were growing heavier in a measure as the hour of
departure approached.

He expressed it to Wolverstone, who met him as he stepped aboard the Arabella:

"You over persuaded me into those articles, you blackguard; and it'll surprise me if any good
comes of this association."

The giant rolled his single bloodthirsty eye, and sneered, thrusting out his heavy jaw. "We'll
wring the dog's neck if there's any treachery."

"So we will--if we are there to wring it by then." And on that, dismissing the matter: "We
sail in the morning, on the first of the ebb," he announced, and went off to his cabin.

CHAPTER XIV. LEVASSEUR'S HEROICS

It would be somewhere about ten o'clock on the following morning, a full hour before the time
appointed for sailing, when a canoe brought up alongside La Foudre, and a half-caste Indian
stepped out of her and went up the ladder. He was clad in drawers of hairy, untanned hide,
and a red blanket served him for a cloak. He was the bearer of a folded scrap of paper for
Captain Levasseur.

The Captain unfolded the letter, sadly soiled and crumpled by contact with the half-caste's
person. Its contents may be roughly translated thus:

"My well-beloved--I am in the Dutch brig Jongvrow, which is about to sail. Resolved to separate
us for ever, my cruel father is sending me to Europe in my brother's charge. I implore you,
come to my rescue. Deliver me, my well-beloved hero!--Your desolated Madeleine, who loves you."

The well-beloved hero was moved to the soul of him by that passionate appeal. His scowling
glance swept the bay for the Dutch brig, which he knew had been due to sail for Amsterdam with
a cargo of hides and tobacco.

She was nowhere to be seen among the shipping in that narrow, rock-bound harbour. He roared
out the question in his mind.

In answer the half-caste pointed out beyond the frothing surf that marked the position of the
reef constituting one of the stronghold's main defences. Away beyond it, a mile or so distant,
a sail was standing out to sea. "There she go," he said.

"There!" The Frenchman gazed and stared, his face growing white. The man's wicked temper awoke,
and turned to vent itself upon the messenger. "And where have you been that you come here only
now with this? Answer me!"

The half-caste shrank terrified before his fury. His explanation, if he had one, was paralyzed
by fear. Levasseur took him by the throat, shook him twice, snarling the while, then hurled
him into the scuppers. The man's head struck the gunwale as he fell, and he lay there, quite
still, a trickle of blood issuing from his mouth.

Levasseur dashed one hand against the other, as if dusting them.

"Heave that muck overboard," he ordered some of those who stood idling in the waist. "Then
up anchor, and let us after the Dutchman."

"Steady, Captain. What's that?" There was a restraining hand upon his shoulder, and the broad
face of his lieutenant Cahusac, a burly, callous Breton scoundrel, was stolidly confronting him.

Levasseur made clear his purpose with a deal of unnecessary obscenity.

Cahusac shook his head. "A Dutch brig!" said he. "Impossible! We should never be allowed."

"And who the devil will deny us?" Levasseur was between amazement and fury.

"For one thing, there's your own crew will be none too willing. For another there's Captain Blood."

"I care nothing for Captain Blood...."

"But it is necessary that you should. He has the power, the weight of metal and of men, and
if I know him at all he'll sink us before he'll suffer interference with the Dutch. He has
his own views of privateering, this Captain Blood, as I warned you."

"Ah!" said Levasseur, showing his teeth. But his eyes, riveted upon that distant sail, were
gloomily thoughtful. Not for long. The imagination and resource which Captain Blood had detected
in the fellow soon suggested a course.

Cursing in his soul, and even before the anchor was weighed, the association into which he
had entered, he was already studying ways of evasion. What Cahusac implied was true: Blood
would never suffer violence to be done in his presence to a Dutchman; but it might be done
in his absence; and, being done, Blood must perforce condone it, since it would then be too
late to protest.

Within the hour the Arabella and La Foudre were beating out to sea together. Without understanding
the change of plan involved, Captain Blood, nevertheless, accepted it, and weighed anchor before
the appointed time upon perceiving his associate to do so.

All day the Dutch brig was in sight, though by evening she had dwindled to the merest speck
on the northern horizon. The course prescribed for Blood and Levasseur lay eastward along the
northern shores of Hispaniola. To that course the Arabella continued to hold steadily throughout
the night. When day broke again, she was alone. La Foudre under cover of the darkness had struck
away to The northeast with every rag of canvas on her yards.

Cahusac had attempted yet again to protest against this.

"The devil take you!" Levasseur had answered him. "A ship's a ship, be she Dutch or Spanish,
and ships are our present need. That will suffice for the men."

His lieutenant said no more. But from his glimpse of the letter, knowing that a girl and not
a ship was his captain's real objective, he gloomily shook his head as he rolled away on his
bowed legs to give the necessary orders.

Dawn found La Foudre close on the Dutchman's heels, not a mile astern, and the sight of her
very evidently flustered the Jongvrow. No doubt mademoiselle's brother recognizing Levasseur's
ship would be responsible for the Dutch uneasiness. They saw the Jongvrow crowding canvas in
a futile endeavour to outsail them, whereupon they stood off to starboard and raced on until
they were in a position whence they could send a warning shot across her bow. The Jongvrow
veered, showed them her rudder, and opened fire with her stern chasers. The small shot went
whistling through La Foudre's shrouds with some slight damage to her canvas. Followed a brief
running fight in the course of which the Dutchman let fly a broadside.

Five minutes after that they were board and board, the Jongvrow held tight in the clutches
of La Foudre's grapnels, and the buccaneers pouring noisily into her waist.

The Dutchman's master, purple in the face, stood forward to beard the pirate, followed closely
by an elegant, pale-faced young gentleman in whom Levasseur recognized his brother-in-law elect.

"Captain Levasseur, this is an outrage for which you shall be made to answer. What do you seek
aboard my ship?"

"At first I sought only that which belongs to me, something of which I am being robbed. But
since you chose war and opened fire on me with some damage to my ship and loss of life to five
of my men, why, war it is, and your ship a prize of war."

From the quarter rail Mademoiselle d'Ogeron looked down with glowing eyes in breathless wonder
upon her well-beloved hero. Gloriously heroic he seemed as he stood towering there, masterful,
audacious, beautiful. He saw her, and with a glad shout sprang towards her. The Dutch master
got in his way with hands upheld to arrest his progress. Levasseur did not stay to argue with
him: he was too impatient to reach his mistress. He swung the poleaxe that he carried, and
the Dutchman went down in blood with a cloven skull. The eager lover stepped across the body
and came on, his countenance joyously alight.

But mademoiselle was shrinking now, in horror. She was a girl upon the threshold of glorious
womanhood, of a fine height and nobly moulded, with heavy coils of glossy black hair above
and about a face that was of the colour of old ivory. Her countenance was cast in lines of
arrogance, stressed by the low lids of her full dark eyes.

In a bound her well-beloved was beside her, flinging away his bloody poleaxe, he opened wide
his arms to enfold her. But she still shrank even within his embrace, which would not be denied;
a look of dread had come to temper the normal arrogance of her almost perfect face.

"Mine, mine at last, and in spite of all!" he cried exultantly, theatrically, truly heroic.

But she, endeavouring to thrust him back, her hands against his breast, could only falter:
"Why, why did you kill him?"

He laughed, as a hero should; and answered her heroically, with the tolerance of a god for
the mortal to whom he condescends: "He stood between us. Let his death be a symbol, a warning.
Let all who would stand between us mark it and beware."

It was so splendidly terrific, the gesture of it was so broad and fine and his magnetism so
compelling, that she cast her silly tremors and yielded herself freely, intoxicated, to his
fond embrace. Thereafter he swung her to his shoulder, and stepping with ease beneath that
burden, bore her in a sort of triumph, lustily cheered by his men, to the deck of his own ship.
Her inconsiderate brother might have ruined that romantic scene but for the watchful Cahusac,
who quietly tripped him up, and then trussed him like a fowl.

Thereafter, what time the Captain languished in his lady's smile within the cabin, Cahusac
was dealing with the spoils of war. The Dutch crew was ordered into the longboat, and bidden
go to the devil. Fortunately, as they numbered fewer than thirty, the longboat, though perilously
overcrowded, could yet contain them. Next, Cahusac having inspected the cargo, put a quartermaster
and a score of men aboard the Jongvrow, and left her to follow La Foudre, which he now headed
south for the Leeward Islands.

Cahusac was disposed to be ill-humoured. The risk they had run in taking the Dutch brig and
doing violence to members of the family of the Governor of Tortuga, was out of all proportion
to the value of their prize. He said so, sullenly, to Levasseur.

"You'll keep that opinion to yourself," the Captain answered him. "Don't think I am the man
to thrust my neck into a noose, without knowing how I am going to take it out again. I shall
send an offer of terms to the Governor of Tortuga that he will be forced to accept. Set a course
for the Virgen Magra. We'll go ashore, and settle things from there. And tell them to fetch
that milksop Ogeron to the cabin."

Levasseur went back to the adoring lady.

Thither, too, the lady's brother was presently conducted. The Captain rose to receive him,
bending his stalwart height to avoid striking the cabin roof with his head. Mademoiselle rose too.

"Why this?" she asked Levasseur, pointing to her brother's pinioned wrists--the remains of
Cahusac's precautions.

"I deplore it," said he. "I desire it to end. Let M. d'Ogeron give me his parole...."

"I give you nothing," flashed the white-faced youth, who did not lack for spirit.

"You see." Levasseur shrugged his deep regret, and mademoiselle turned protesting to her brother.

"Henri, this is foolish! You are not behaving as my friend. You...."

"Little fool," her brother answered her--and the "little" was out of place; she was the taller
of the twain. "Little fool, do you think I should be acting as your friend to make terms with
this blackguard pirate?"

"Steady, my young cockerel!" Levasseur laughed. But his laugh was not nice.

"Don't you perceive your wicked folly in the harm it has brought already? Lives have been lost--men
have died--that this monster might overtake you. And don't you yet realize where you stand--in
the power of this beast, of this cur born in a kennel and bred in thieving and murder?"

He might have said more but that Levasseur struck him across the mouth. Levasseur, you see,
cared as little as another to hear the truth about himself.

Mademoiselle suppressed a scream, as the youth staggered back under the blow. He came to rest
against a bulkhead, and leaned there with bleeding lips. But his spirit was unquenched, and
there was a ghastly smile on his white face as his eyes sought his sister's.

"You see," he said simply. "He strikes a man whose hands are bound."

The simple words, and, more than the words, their tone of ineffable disdain, aroused the passion
that never slumbered deeply in Levasseur.

"And what should you do, puppy, if your hands were unbound?" He took his prisoner by the breast
of his doublet and shook him. "Answer me! What should you do? Tchah! You empty windbag! You...."
And then came a torrent of words unknown to mademoiselle, yet of whose foulness her intuitions
made her conscious.

With blanched cheeks she stood by the cabin table, and cried out to Levasseur to stop. To obey
her, he opened the door, and flung her brother through it.

"Put that rubbish under hatches until I call for it again," he roared, and shut the door.

Composing himself, he turned to the girl again with a deprecatory smile. But no smile answered
him from her set face. She had seen her beloved hero's nature in curl-papers, as it were, and
she found the spectacle disgusting and terrifying. It recalled the brutal slaughter of the
Dutch captain, and suddenly she realized that what her brother had just said of this man was
no more than true. Fear growing to panic was written on her face, as she stood there leaning
for support against the table.

"Why, sweetheart, what is this?" Levasseur moved towards her. She recoiled before him. There
was a smile on his face, a glitter in his eyes that fetched her heart into her throat.

He caught her, as she reached the uttermost limits of the cabin, seized her in his long arms
and pulled her to him.

"No, no!" she panted.

"Yes, yes," he mocked her, and his mockery was the most terrible thing of all. He crushed her
to him brutally, deliberately hurtful because she resisted, and kissed her whilst she writhed
in his embrace. Then, his passion mounting, he grew angry and stripped off the last rag of
hero's mask that still may have hung upon his face. "Little fool, did you not hear your brother
say that you are in my power? Remember it, and remember that of your own free will you came.
I am not the man with whom a woman can play fast and loose. So get sense, my girl, and accept
what you have invited." He kissed her again, almost contemptuously, and flung her off. "No
more scowls," he said. "You'll be sorry else."

Some one knocked. Cursing the interruption, Levasseur strode off to open. Cahusac stood before
him. The Breton's face was grave. He came to report that they had sprung a leak between wind
and water, the consequence of damage sustained from one of the Dutchman's shots. In alarm Levasseur
went off with him. The leakage was not serious so long as the weather kept fine; but should
a storm overtake them it might speedily become so. A man was slung overboard to make a partial
stoppage with a sail-cloth, and the pumps were got to work.

Ahead of them a low cloud showed on the horizon, which Cahusac pronounced one of the northernmost
of the Virgin Islands.

"We must run for shelter there, and careen her," said Levasseur. "I do not trust this oppressive
heat. A storm may catch us before we make land."

"A storm or something else," said Cahusac grimly. "Have you noticed that?" He pointed away
to starboard.

Levasseur looked, and caught his breath. Two ships that at the distance seemed of considerable
burden were heading towards them some five miles away.

"If they follow us what is to happen?" demanded Cahusac.

"We'll fight whether we're in case to do so or not," swore Levasseur.

"Counsels of despair." Cahusac was contemptuous. To mark it he spat upon the deck. "This comes
of going to sea with a lovesick madman. Now, keep your temper, Captain, for the hands will
be at the end of theirs if we have trouble as a result of this Dutchman business."

For the remainder of that day Levasseur's thoughts were of anything but love. He remained on
deck, his eyes now upon the land, now upon those two slowly gaining ships. To run for the open
could avail him nothing, and in his leaky condition would provide an additional danger. He
must stand at bay and fight. And then, towards evening, when within three miles of shore and
when he was about to give the order to strip for battle, he almost fainted from relief to hear
a voice from the crow's-nest above announce that the larger of the two ships was the Arabella.
Her companion was presumably a prize.

But the pessimism of Cahusac abated nothing.

"That is but the lesser evil," he growled. "What will Blood say about this Dutchman?"

"Let him say what he pleases." Levasseur laughed in the immensity of his relief.

"And what about the children of the Governor of Tortuga?"

"He must not know."

"He'll come to know in the end."

"Aye, but by then, morbleu, the matter will be settled. I shall have made my peace with the
Governor. I tell you I know the way to compel Ogeron to come to terms."

Presently the four vessels lay to off the northern coast of La Virgen Magra, a narrow little
island arid and treeless, some twelve miles by three, uninhabited save by birds and turtles
and unproductive of anything but salt, of which there were considerable ponds to the south.

Levasseur put off in a boat accompanied by Cahusac and two other officers, and went to visit
Captain Blood aboard the Arabella.

"Our brief separation has been mighty profitable," was Captain Blood's greeting. "It's a busy
morning we've both had." He was in high good-humour as he led the way to the great cabin for
a rendering of accounts.

The tall ship that accompanied the Arabella was a Spanish vessel of twenty-six guns, the Santiago
from Puerto Rico with a hundred and twenty thousand weight of cacao, forty thousand pieces
of eight, and the value of ten thousand more in jewels. A rich capture of which two fifths
under the articles went to Levasseur and his crew. Of the money and jewels a division was made
on the spot. The cacao it was agreed should be taken to Tortuga to be sold.

Then it was the turn of Levasseur, and black grew the brow of Captain Blood as the Frenchman's
tale was unfolded. At the end he roundly expressed his disapproval. The Dutch were a friendly
people whom it was a folly to alienate, particularly for so paltry a matter as these hides
and tobacco, which at most would fetch a bare twenty thousand pieces.

But Levasseur answered him, as he had answered Cahusac, that a ship was a ship, and it was
ships they needed against their projected enterprise. Perhaps because things had gone well
with him that day, Blood ended by shrugging the matter aside. Thereupon Levasseur proposed
that the Arabella and her prize should return to Tortuga there to unload the cacao and enlist
the further adventurers that could now be shipped. Levasseur meanwhile would effect certain
necessary repairs, and then proceeding south, await his admiral at Saltatudos, an island conveniently
situated--in the latitude of 11 deg. 11' N.--for their enterprise against Maracaybo.

To Levasseur's relief, Captain Blood not only agreed, but pronounced himself ready to set sail
at once.

No sooner had the Arabella departed than Levasseur brought his ships into the lagoon, and set
his crew to work upon the erection of temporary quarters ashore for himself, his men, and his
enforced guests during the careening and repairing of La Foudre.

At sunset that evening the wind freshened; it grew to a gale, and from that to such a hurricane
that Levasseur was thankful to find himself ashore and his ships in safe shelter. He wondered
a little how it might be faring with Captain Blood out there at the mercy of that terrific
storm; but he did not permit concern to trouble him unduly.

CHAPTER XV. THE RANSOM

In the glory of the following morning, sparkling and clear after the storm, with an invigorating,
briny tang in the air from the salt-ponds on the south of the island, a curious scene was played
on the beach of the Virgen Magra, at the foot of a ridge of bleached dunes, beside the spread
of sail from which Levasseur had improvised a tent.

Enthroned upon an empty cask sat the French filibuster to transact important business: the
business of making himself safe with the Governor of Tortuga.

A guard of honour of a half-dozen officers hung about him; five of them were rude boucan-hunters,
in stained jerkins and leather breeches; the sixth was Cahusac. Before him, guarded by two
half-naked negroes, stood young d'Ogeron, in frilled shirt and satin small-clothes and fine
shoes of Cordovan leather. He was stripped of doublet, and his hands were tied behind him.
The young gentleman's comely face was haggard. Near at hand, and also under guard, but unpinioned,
mademoiselle his sister sat hunched upon a hillock of sand. She was very pale, and it was in
vain that she sought to veil in a mask of arrogance the fears by which she was assailed.

Levasseur addressed himself to M. d'Ogeron. He spoke at long length. In the end--

"I trust, monsieur," said he, with mock suavity, "that I have made myself quite clear. So that
there may be no misunderstandings, I will recapitulate. Your ransom is fixed at twenty thousand
pieces of eight, and you shall have liberty on parole to go to Tortuga to collect it. In fact,
I shall provide the means to convey you thither, and you shall have a month in which to come
and go. Meanwhile, your sister remains with me as a hostage. Your father should not consider
such a sum excessive as the price of his son's liberty and to provide a dowry for his daughter.
Indeed, if anything, I am too modest, pardi! M. d'Ogeron is reputed a wealthy man."

M. d'Ogeron the younger raised his head and looked the Captain boldly in the face.

"I refuse--utterly and absolutely, do you understand? So do your worst, and be damned for a
filthy pirate without decency and without honour."

"But what words!" laughed Levasseur. "What heat and what foolishness! You have not considered
the alternative. When you do, you will not persist in your refusal. You will not do that in
any case. We have spurs for the reluctant. And I warn you against giving me your parole under
stress, and afterwards playing me false. I shall know how to find and punish you. Meanwhile,
remember your sister's honour is in pawn to me. Should you forget to return with the dowry,
you will not consider it unreasonable that I forget to marry her."

Levasseur's smiling eyes, intent upon the young man's face, saw the horror that crept into
his glance. M. d'Ogeron cast a wild glance at mademoiselle, and observed the grey despair that
had almost stamped the beauty from her face. Disgust and fury swept across his countenance.

Then he braced himself and answered resolutely:

"No, you dog! A thousand times, no!"

"You are foolish to persist." Levasseur spoke without anger, with a coldly mocking regret.
His fingers had been busy tying knots in a length of whipcord. He held it up. "You know this?
It is a rosary of pain that has wrought the conversion of many a stubborn heretic. It is capable
of screwing the eyes out of a man's head by way of helping him to see reason. As you please."

He flung the length of knotted cord to one of the negroes, who in an instant made it fast about
the prisoner's brows. Then between cord and cranium the black inserted a short length of metal,
round and slender as a pipe-stem. That done he rolled his eyes towards Levasseur, awaiting
the Captain's signal.

Levasseur considered his victim, and beheld him tense and braced, his haggard face of a leaden
hue, beads of perspiration glinting on his pallid brow just beneath the whipcord.

Mademoiselle cried out, and would have risen: but her guards restrained her, and she sank down
again, moaning.

"I beg that you will spare yourself and your sister," said the Captain, "by being reasonable.
What, after all, is the sum I have named? To your wealthy father a bagatelle. I repeat, I have
been too modest. But since I have said twenty thousand pieces of eight, twenty thousand pieces
it shall be."

"And for what, if you please, have you said twenty thousand pieces of eight?"

In execrable French, but in a voice that was crisp and pleasant, seeming to echo some of the
mockery that had invested Levasseur's, that question floated over their heads.

Startled, Levasseur and his officers looked up and round. On the crest of the dunes behind
them, in sharp silhouette against the deep cobalt of the sky, they beheld a tall, lean figure
scrupulously dressed in black with silver lace, a crimson ostrich plume curled about the broad
brim of his hat affording the only touch of colour. Under that hat was the tawny face of Captain
Blood.

Levasseur gathered himself up with an oath of amazement. He had conceived Captain Blood by
now well below the horizon, on his way to Tortuga, assuming him to have been so fortunate as
to have weathered last night's storm.

Launching himself upon the yielding sand, into which he sank to the level of the calves of
his fine boots of Spanish leather, Captain Blood came sliding erect to the beach. He was followed
by Wolverstone, and a dozen others. As he came to a standstill, he doffed his hat, with a flourish,
to the lady. Then he turned to Levasseur.

"Good-morning, my Captain," said he, and proceeded to explain his presence. "It was last night's
hurricane compelled our return. We had no choice but to ride before it with stripped poles,
and it drove us back the way we had gone. Moreover--as the devil would have it!--the Santiago
sprang her mainmast; and so I was glad to put into a cove on the west of the island a couple
of miles away, and we've walked across to stretch our legs, and to give you good-day. But who
are these?" And he designated the man and the woman.

Cahusac shrugged his shoulders, and tossed his long arms to heaven.

"Voila!" said he, pregnantly, to the firmament.

Levasseur gnawed his lip, and changed colour. But he controlled himself to answer civilly:

"As you see, two prisoners."

"Ah! Washed ashore in last night's gale, eh?"

"Not so." Levasseur contained himself with difficulty before that irony. "They were in the
Dutch brig."

"I don't remember that you mentioned them before."

"I did not. They are prisoners of my own--a personal matter. They are French."

"French!" Captain Blood's light eyes stabbed at Levasseur, then at the prisoners.

M. d'Ogeron stood tense and braced as before, but the grey horror had left his face. Hope had
leapt within him at this interruption, obviously as little expected by his tormentor as by
himself. His sister, moved by a similar intuition, was leaning forward with parted lips and
gaping eyes.

Captain Blood fingered his lip, and frowned thoughtfully upon Levasseur.

"Yesterday you surprised me by making war upon the friendly Dutch. But now it seems that not
even your own countrymen are safe from you."

"Have I not said that these... that this is a matter personal to me?"

"Ah! And their names?"

Captain Blood's crisp, authoritative, faintly disdainful manner stirred Levasseur's quick anger.
The blood crept slowly back into his blenched face, and his glance grew in insolence, almost
in menace. Meanwhile the prisoner answered for him.

"I am Henri d'Ogeron, and this is my sister."

"D'Ogeron?" Captain Blood stared. "Are you related by chance to my good friend the Governor
of Tortuga?"

"He is my father."

Levasseur swung aside with an imprecation. In Captain Blood, amazement for the moment quenched
every other emotion.

"The saints preserve us now! Are you quite mad, Levasseur? First you molest the Dutch, who
are our friends; next you take prisoners two persons that are French, your own countrymen;
and now, faith, they're no less than the children of the Governor of Tortuga, which is the
one safe place of shelter that we enjoy in these islands...."

Levasseur broke in angrily:

"Must I tell you again that it is a matter personal to me? I make myself alone responsible
to the Governor of Tortuga."

"And the twenty thousand pieces of eight? Is that also a matter personal to you?"

"It is."

"Now I don't agree with you at all." Captain Blood sat down on the cask that Levasseur had
lately occupied, and looked up blandly. "I may inform you, to save time, that I heard the entire
proposal that you made to this lady and this gentleman, and I'll also remind you that we sail
under articles that admit no ambiguities. You have fixed their ransom at twenty thousand pieces
of eight. That sum then belongs to your crews and mine in the proportions by the articles established.
You'll hardly wish to dispute it. But what is far more grave is that you have concealed from
me this part of the prizes taken on your last cruise, and for such an offence as that the articles
provide certain penalties that are something severe in character."

"Ho, ho!" laughed Levasseur unpleasantly. Then added: "If you dislike my conduct we can dissolve
the association."

"That is my intention. But we'll dissolve it when and in the manner that I choose, and that
will be as soon as you have satisfied the articles under which we sailed upon this cruise.

"What do you mean?"

"I'll be as short as I can," said Captain Blood. "I'll waive for the moment the unseemliness
of making war upon the Dutch, of taking French prisoners, and of provoking the anger of the
Governor of Tortuga. I'll accept the situation as I find it. Yourself you've fixed the ransom
of this couple at twenty thousand pieces, and, as I gather, the lady is to be your perquisite.
But why should she be your perquisite more than another's, seeing that she belongs by the articles
to all of us, as a prize of war?"

Black as thunder grew the brow of Levasseur.

"However," added Captain Blood, "I'll not dispute her to you if you are prepared to buy her."

"Buy her?"

"At the price you have set upon her."

Levasseur contained his rage, that he might reason with the Irishman. "That is the ransom of
the man. It is to be paid for him by the Governor of Tortuga."

"No, no. Ye've parcelled the twain together--very oddly, I confess. Ye've set their value at
twenty thousand pieces, and for that sum you may have them, since you desire it; but you'll
pay for them the twenty thousand pieces that are ultimately to come to you as the ransom of
one and the dowry of the other; and that sum shall be divided among our crews. So that you
do that, it is conceivable that our followers may take a lenient view of your breach of the
articles we jointly signed."

Levasseur laughed savagely. "Ah ca! Credieu! The good jest!"

"I quite agree with you," said Captain Blood.

To Levasseur the jest lay in that Captain Blood, with no more than a dozen followers, should
come there attempting to hector him who had a hundred men within easy call. But it seemed that
he had left out of his reckoning something which his opponent had counted in. For as, laughing
still, Levasseur swung to his officers, he saw that which choked the laughter in his throat.
Captain Blood had shrewdly played upon the cupidity that was the paramount inspiration of those
adventurers. And Levasseur now read clearly on their faces how completely they adopted Captain
Blood's suggestion that all must participate in the ransom which their leader had thought to
appropriate to himself.

It gave the gaudy ruffian pause, and whilst in his heart he cursed those followers of his,
who could be faithful only to their greed, he perceived--and only just in time--that he had
best tread warily.

"You misunderstand," he said, swallowing his rage. "The ransom is for division, when it comes.
The girl, meanwhile, is mine on that understanding."

"Good!" grunted Cahusac. "On that understanding all arranges itself."

"You think so?" said Captain Blood. "But if M. d'Ogeron should refuse to pay the ransom? What
then?" He laughed, and got lazily to his feet. "No, no. If Captain Levasseur is meanwhile to
keep the girl, as he proposes, then let him pay this ransom, and be his the risk if it should
afterwards not be forthcoming."

"That's it!" cried one of Levasseur's officers. And Cahusac added: "It's reasonable, that!
Captain Blood is right. It is in the articles."

"What is in the articles, you fools?" Levasseur was in danger of losing his head. "Sacre Dieu!
Where do you suppose that I have twenty thousand pieces? My whole share of the prizes of this
cruise does not come to half that sum. I'll be your debtor until I've earned it. Will that
content you?"

All things considered, there is not a doubt that it would have done so had not Captain Blood
intended otherwise.

"And if you should die before you have earned it? Ours is a calling fraught with risks, my
Captain."

"Damn you!" Levasseur flung upon him livid with fury. "Will nothing satisfy you?"

"Oh, but yes. Twenty thousand pieces of eight for immediate division."

"I haven't got it."

"Then let some one buy the prisoners who has."

"And who do you suppose has it if I have not?"

"I have," said Captain Blood.

"You have!" Levasseur's mouth fell open. "You... you want the girl?"

"Why not? And I exceed you in gallantry in that I will make sacrifices to obtain her, and in
honesty in that I am ready to pay for what I want."

Levasseur stared at him foolishly agape. Behind him pressed his officers, gaping also.

Captain Blood sat down again on the cask, and drew from an inner pocket of his doublet a little
leather bag. "I am glad to be able to resolve a difficulty that at one moment seemed insoluble."
And under the bulging eyes of Levasseur and his officers, he untied the mouth of the bag and
rolled into his left palm four or five pearls each of the size of a sparrow's egg. There were
twenty such in the bag, the very pick of those taken in that raid upon the pearl fleet. "You
boast a knowledge of pearls, Cahusac. At what do you value this?"

The Breton took between coarse finger and thumb the proffered lustrous, delicately iridescent
sphere, his shrewd eyes appraising it.

"A thousand pieces," he answered shortly.

"It will fetch rather more in Tortuga or Jamaica," said Captain Blood, "and twice as much in
Europe. But I'll accept your valuation. They are almost of a size, as you can see. Here are
twelve, representing twelve thousand pieces of eight, which is La Foudre's share of three fifths
of the prize, as provided by the articles. For the eight thousand pieces that go to the Arabella,
I make myself responsible to my own men. And now, Wolverstone, if you please, will you take
my property aboard the Arabella?" He stood up again, indicating the prisoners.

"Ah, no!" Levasseur threw wide the floodgates of his fury. "Ah, that, no, by example! You shall
not take her...." He would have sprung upon Captain Blood, who stood aloof, alert, tight-lipped,
and watchful.

But it was one of Levasseur's own officers who hindered him.

"Nom de Dieu, my Captain! What will you do? It is settled; honourably settled with satisfaction
to all."

"To all?" blazed Levasseur. "Ah ca! To all of you, you animals! But what of me?"

Cahusac, with the pearls clutched in his capacious hand, stepped up to him on the other side.
"Don't be a fool, Captain. Do you want to provoke trouble between the crews? His men outnumber
us by nearly two to one. What's a girl more or less? In Heaven's name, let her go. He's paid
handsomely for her, and dealt fairly with us."

"Dealt fairly?" roared the infuriated Captain. "You...." In all his foul vocabulary he could
find no epithet to describe his lieutenant. He caught him a blow that almost sent him sprawling.
The pearls were scattered in the sand.

Cahusac dived after them, his fellows with him. Vengeance must wait. For some moments they
groped there on hands and knees, oblivious of all else. And yet in those moments vital things
were happening.

Levasseur, his hand on his sword, his face a white mask of rage, was confronting Captain Blood
to hinder his departure.

"You do not take her while I live!" he cried.

"Then I'll take her when you're dead," said Captain Blood, and his own blade flashed in the
sunlight. "The articles provide that any man of whatever rank concealing any part of a prize,
be it of the value of no more than a peso, shall be hanged at the yardarm. It's what I intended
for you in the end. But since ye prefer it this way, ye muckrake, faith, I'll be humouring you."

He waved away the men who would have interfered, and the blades rang together.

M. d'Ogeron looked on, a man bemused, unable to surmise what the issue either way could mean
for him. Meanwhile, two of Blood's men who had taken the place of the Frenchman's negro guards,
had removed the crown of whipcord from his brow. As for mademoiselle, she had risen, and was
leaning forward, a hand pressed tightly to her heaving breast, her face deathly pale, a wild
terror in her eyes.

It was soon over. The brute strength, upon which Levasseur so confidently counted, could avail
nothing against the Irishman's practised skill. When, with both lungs transfixed, he lay prone
on the white sand, coughing out his rascally life, Captain Blood looked calmly at Cahusac across
the body.

"I think that cancels the articles between us," he said. With soulless, cynical eyes Cahusac
considered the twitching body of his recent leader. Had Levasseur been a man of different temper,
the affair might have ended in a very different manner. But, then, it is certain that Captain
Blood would have adopted in dealing with him different tactics. As it was, Levasseur commanded
neither love nor loyalty. The men who followed him were the very dregs of that vile trade,
and cupidity was their only inspiration. Upon that cupidity Captain Blood had deftly played,
until he had brought them to find Levasseur guilty of the one offence they deemed unpardonable,
the crime of appropriating to himself something which might be converted into gold and shared
amongst them all.

Thus now the threatening mob of buccaneers that came hastening to the theatre of that swift
tragi-comedy were appeased by a dozen words of Cahusac's.

Whilst still they hesitated, Blood added something to quicken their decision.

"If you will come to our anchorage, you shall receive at once your share of the booty of the
Santiago, that you may dispose of it as you please."

They crossed the island, the two prisoners accompanying them, and later that day, the division
made, they would have parted company but that Cahusac, at the instances of the men who had
elected him Levasseur's successor, offered Captain Blood anew the services of that French contingent.

"If you will sail with me again," the Captain answered him, "you may do so on the condition
that you make your peace with the Dutch, and restore the brig and her cargo."

The condition was accepted, and Captain Blood went off to find his guests, the children of
the Governor of Tortuga.

Mademoiselle d'Ogeron and her brother--the latter now relieved of his bonds--sat in the great
cabin of the Arabella, whither they had been conducted.

Wine and food had been placed upon the table by Benjamin, Captain Blood's negro steward and
cook, who had intimated to them that it was for their entertainment. But it had remained untouched.
Brother and sister sat there in agonized bewilderment, conceiving that their escape was but
from frying-pan to fire. At length, overwrought by the suspense, mademoiselle flung herself
upon her knees before her brother to implore his pardon for all the evil brought upon them
by her wicked folly.

M. d'Ogeron was not in a forgiving mood.

"I am glad that at least you realize what you have done. And now this other filibuster has
bought you, and you belong to him. You realize that, too, I hope."

He might have said more, but he checked upon perceiving that the door was opening. Captain
Blood, coming from settling matters with the followers of Levasseur, stood on the threshold.
M. d'Ogeron had not troubled to restrain his high-pitched voice, and the Captain had overheard
the Frenchman's last two sentences. Therefore he perfectly understood why mademoiselle should
bound up at sight of him, and shrink back in fear.

"Mademoiselle," said he in his vile but fluent French, "I beg you to dismiss your fears. Aboard
this ship you shall be treated with all honour. So soon as we are in case to put to sea again,
we steer a course for Tortuga to take you home to your father. And pray do not consider that
I have bought you, as your brother has just said. All that I have done has been to provide
the ransom necessary to bribe a gang of scoundrels to depart from obedience to the arch-scoundrel
who commanded them, and so deliver you from all peril. Count it, if you please, a friendly
loan to be repaid entirely at your convenience."

Mademoiselle stared at him in unbelief. M. d'Ogeron rose to his feet.

"Monsieur, is it possible that you are serious?"

"I am. It may not happen often nowadays. I may be a pirate. But my ways are not the ways of
Levasseur, who should have stayed in Europe, and practised purse-cutting. I have a sort of
honour--shall we say, some rags of honour?--remaining me from better days." Then on a brisker
note he added: "We dine in an hour, and I trust that you will honour my table with your company.
Meanwhile, Benjamin will see, monsieur, that you are more suitably provided in the matter of
wardrobe."

He bowed to them, and turned to depart again, but mademoiselle detained him.

"Monsieur!" she cried sharply.

He checked and turned, whilst slowly she approached him, regarding him between dread and wonder.

"Oh, you are noble!"

"I shouldn't put it as high as that myself," said he.

"You are, you are! And it is but right that you should know all."

"Madelon!" her brother cried out, to restrain her.

But she would not be restrained. Her surcharged heart must overflow in confidence.

"Monsieur, for what befell I am greatly at fault. This man--this Levasseur...."

He stared, incredulous in his turn. "My God! Is it possible? That animal!"

Abruptly she fell on her knees, caught his hand and kissed it before he could wrench it from her.

"What do you do?" he cried.

"An amende. In my mind I dishonoured you by deeming you his like, by conceiving your fight
with Levasseur a combat between jackals. On my knees, monsieur, I implore you to forgive me."

Captain Blood looked down upon her, and a smile broke on his lips, irradiating the blue eyes
that looked so oddly light in that tawny face.

"Why, child," said he, "I might find it hard to forgive you the stupidity of having thought
otherwise."

As he handed her to her feet again, he assured himself that he had behaved rather well in the
affair. Then he sighed. That dubious fame of his that had spread so quickly across the Caribbean
would by now have reached the ears of Arabella Bishop. That she would despise him, he could
not doubt, deeming him no better than all the other scoundrels who drove this villainous buccaneering
trade. Therefore he hoped that some echo of this deed might reach her also, and be set by her
against some of that contempt. For the whole truth, which he withheld from Mademoiselle d'Ogeron,
was that in venturing his life to save her, he had been driven by the thought that the deed
must be pleasing in the eyes of Miss Bishop could she but witness it.

CHAPTER XVI. THE TRAP

That affair of Mademoiselle d'Ogeron bore as its natural fruit an improvement in the already
cordial relations between Captain Blood and the Governor of Tortuga. At the fine stone house,
with its green-jalousied windows, which M. d'Ogeron had built himself in a spacious and luxuriant
garden to the east of Cayona, the Captain became a very welcome guest. M. d'Ogeron was in the
Captain's debt for more than the twenty thousand pieces of eight which he had provided for
mademoiselle's ransom; and shrewd, hard bargain-driver though he might be, the Frenchman could
be generous and understood the sentiment of gratitude. This he now proved in every possible
way, and under his powerful protection the credit of Captain Blood among the buccaneers very
rapidly reached its zenith.

So when it came to fitting out his fleet for that enterprise against Maracaybo, which had originally
been Levasseur's project, he did not want for either ships or men to follow him. He recruited
five hundred adventurers in all, and he might have had as many thousands if he could have offered
them accommodation. Similarly without difficulty he might have increased his fleet to twice
its strength of ships but that he preferred to keep it what it was. The three vessels to which
he confined it were the Arabella, the La Foudre, which Cahusac now commanded with a contingent
of some sixscore Frenchmen, and the Santiago, which had been refitted and rechristened the
Elizabeth, after that Queen of England whose seamen had humbled Spain as Captain Blood now
hoped to humble it again. Hagthorpe, in virtue of his service in the navy, was appointed by
Blood to command her, and the appointment was confirmed by the men.

It was some months after the rescue of Mademoiselle d'Ogeron--in August of that year 1687--that
this little fleet, after some minor adventures which I pass over in silence, sailed into the
great lake of Maracaybo and effected its raid upon that opulent city of the Main.

The affair did not proceed exactly as was hoped, and Blood's force came to find itself in a
precarious position. This is best explained in the words employed by Cahusac--which Pitt has
carefully recorded--in the course of an altercation that broke out on the steps of the Church
of Nuestra Senora del Carmen, which Captain Blood had impiously appropriated for the purpose
of a corps-de-garde. I have said already that he was a papist only when it suited him.

The dispute was being conducted by Hagthorpe, Wolverstone, and Pitt on the one side, and Cahusac,
out of whose uneasiness it all arose, on the other. Behind them in the sun-scorched, dusty
square, sparsely fringed by palms, whose fronds drooped listlessly in the quivering heat, surged
a couple of hundred wild fellows belonging to both parties, their own excitement momentarily
quelled so that they might listen to what passed among their leaders.

Cahusac appeared to be having it all his own way, and he raised his harsh, querulous voice
so that all might hear his truculent denunciation. He spoke, Pitt tells us, a dreadful kind
of English, which the shipmaster, however, makes little attempt to reproduce. His dress was
as discordant as his speech. It was of a kind to advertise his trade, and ludicrously in contrast
with the sober garb of Hagthorpe and the almost foppish daintiness of Jeremy Pitt. His soiled
and blood-stained shirt of blue cotton was open in front, to cool his hairy breast, and the
girdle about the waist of his leather breeches carried an arsenal of pistols and a knife, whilst
a cutlass hung from a leather baldrick loosely slung about his body; above his countenance,
broad and flat as a Mongolian's, a red scarf was swathed, turban-wise, about his head.

"Is it that I have not warned you from the beginning that all was too easy?" he demanded between
plaintiveness and fury. "I am no fool, my friends. I have eyes, me. And I see. I see an abandoned
fort at the entrance of the lake, and nobody there to fire a gun at us when we came in. Then
I suspect the trap. Who would not that had eyes and brain? Bah! we come on. What do we find?
A city, abandoned like the fort; a city out of which the people have taken all things of value.
Again I warn Captain Blood. It is a trap, I say. We are to come on; always to come on, without
opposition, until we find that it is too late to go to sea again, that we cannot go back at
all. But no one will listen to me. You all know so much more. Name of God! Captain Blood, he
will go on, and we go on. We go to Gibraltar. True that at last, after long time, we catch
the Deputy-Governor; true, we make him pay big ransom for Gibraltar; true between that ransom
and the loot we return here with some two thousand pieces of eight. But what is it, in reality,
will you tell me? Or shall I tell you? It is a piece of cheese--a piece of cheese in a mousetrap,
and we are the little mice. Goddam! And the cats--oh, the cats they wait for us! The cats are
those four Spanish ships of war that have come meantime. And they wait for us outside the bottle-neck
of this lagoon. Mort de Dieu! That is what comes of the damned obstinacy of your fine Captain
Blood."

Wolverstone laughed. Cahusac exploded in fury.

"Ah, sangdieu! Tu ris, animal? You laugh! Tell me this: How do we get out again unless we accept
the terms of Monsieur the Admiral of Spain?"

From the buccaneers at the foot of the steps came an angry rumble of approval. The single eye
of the gigantic Wolverstone rolled terribly, and he clenched his great fists as if to strike
the Frenchman, who was exposing them to mutiny. But Cahusac was not daunted. The mood of the
men enheartened him.

"You think, perhaps, this your Captain Blood is the good God. That he can make miracles, eh?
He is ridiculous, you know, this Captain Blood; with his grand air and his...."

He checked. Out of the church at that moment, grand air and all, sauntered Peter Blood. With
him came a tough, long-legged French sea-wolf named Yberville, who, though still young, had
already won fame as a privateer commander before the loss of his own ship had driven him to
take service under Blood. The Captain advanced towards that disputing group, leaning lightly
upon his long ebony cane, his face shaded by a broad-plumed hat. There was in his appearance
nothing of the buccaneer. He had much more the air of a lounger in the Mall or the Alameda--the
latter rather, since his elegant suit of violet taffetas with gold-embroidered button-holes
was in the Spanish fashion. But the long, stout, serviceable rapier, thrust up behind by the
left hand resting lightly on the pummel, corrected the impression. That and those steely eyes
of his announced the adventurer.

"You find me ridiculous, eh, Cahusac?" said he, as he came to a halt before the Breton, whose
anger seemed already to have gone out of him. "What, then, must I find you?" He spoke quietly,
almost wearily. "You will be telling them that we have delayed, and that it is the delay that
has brought about our danger. But whose is the fault of that delay? We have been a month in
doing what should have been done, and what but for your blundering would have been done, inside
of a week."

"Ah ca! Nom de Dieu! Was it my fault that...."

"Was it any one else's fault that you ran your ship La Foudre aground on the shoal in the middle
of the lake? You would not be piloted. You knew your way. You took no soundings even. The result
was that we lost three precious days in getting canoes to bring off your men and your gear.
Those three days gave the folk at Gibraltar not only time to hear of our coming, but time in
which to get away. After that, and because of it, we had to follow the Governor to his infernal
island fortress, and a fortnight and best part of a hundred lives were lost in reducing it.
That's how we come to have delayed until this Spanish fleet is fetched round from La Guayra
by a guarda-costa; and if ye hadn't lost La Foudre, and so reduced our fleet from three ships
to two, we should even now be able to fight our way through with a reasonable hope of succeeding.
Yet you think it is for you to come hectoring here, upbraiding us for a situation that is just
the result of your own ineptitude."

He spoke with a restraint which I trust you will agree was admirable when I tell you that the
Spanish fleet guarding the bottle-neck exit of the great Lake of Maracaybo, and awaiting there
the coming forth of Captain Blood with a calm confidence based upon its overwhelming strength,
was commanded by his implacable enemy, Don Miguel de Espinosa y Valdez, the Admiral of Spain.
In addition to his duty to his country, the Admiral had, as you know, a further personal incentive
arising out of that business aboard the Encarnacion a year ago, and the death of his brother
Don Diego; and with him sailed his nephew Esteban, whose vindictive zeal exceeded the Admiral's
own.

Yet, knowing all this, Captain Blood could preserve his calm in reproving the cowardly frenzy
of one for whom the situation had not half the peril with which it was fraught for himself.
He turned from Cahusac to address the mob of buccaneers, who had surged nearer to hear him,
for he had not troubled to raise his voice. "I hope that will correct some of the misapprehension
that appears to have been disturbing you," said he.

"There's no good can come of talking of what's past and done," cried Cahusac, more sullen now
than truculent. Whereupon Wolverstone laughed, a laugh that was like the neighing of a horse.
"The question is: what are we to do now?"

"Sure, now, there's no question at all," said Captain Blood.

"Indeed, but there is," Cahusac insisted. "Don Miguel, the Spanish Admiral, have offer us safe
passage to sea if we will depart at once, do no damage to the town, release our prisoners,
and surrender all that we took at Gibraltar."

Captain Blood smiled quietly, knowing precisely how much Don Miguel's word was worth. It was
Yberville who replied, in manifest scorn of his compatriot:

"Which argues that, even at this disadvantage as he has us, the Spanish Admiral is still afraid
of us."

"That can be only because he not know our real weakness," was the fierce retort. "And, anyway,
we must accept these terms. We have no choice. That is my opinion."

"Well, it's not mine, now," said Captain Blood. "So, I've refused them."

"Refuse'!" Cahusac's broad face grew purple. A muttering from the men behind enheartened him.
"You have refuse'? You have refuse' already--and without consulting me?"

"Your disagreement could have altered nothing. You'd have been outvoted, for Hagthorpe here
was entirely of my own mind. Still," he went on, "if you and your own French followers wish
to avail yourselves of the Spaniard's terms, we shall not hinder you. Send one of your prisoners
to announce it to the Admiral. Don Miguel will welcome your decision, you may be sure."

Cahusac glowered at him in silence for a moment. Then, having controlled himself, he asked
in a concentrated voice:

"Precisely what answer have you make to the Admiral?"

A smile irradiated the face and eyes of Captain Blood. "I have answered him that unless within
four-and-twenty hours we have his parole to stand out to sea, ceasing to dispute our passage
or hinder our departure, and a ransom of fifty thousand pieces of eight for Maracaybo, we shall
reduce this beautiful city to ashes, and thereafter go out and destroy his fleet."

The impudence of it left Cahusac speechless. But among the English buccaneers in the square
there were many who savoured the audacious humour of the trapped dictating terms to the trappers.
Laughter broke from them. It spread into a roar of acclamation; for bluff is a weapon dear
to every adventurer. Presently, when they understood it, even Cahusac's French followers were
carried off their feet by that wave of jocular enthusiasm, until in his truculent obstinacy
Cahusac remained the only dissentient. He withdrew in mortification. Nor was he to be mollified
until the following day brought him his revenge. This came in the shape of a messenger from
Don Miguel with a letter in which the Spanish Admiral solemnly vowed to God that, since the
pirates had refused his magnanimous offer to permit them to surrender with the honours of war,
he would now await them at the mouth of the lake there to destroy them on their coming forth.
He added that should they delay their departure, he would so soon as he was reenforced by a
fifth ship, the Santo Nino, on its way to join him from La Guayra, himself come inside to seek
them at Maracaybo.

This time Captain Blood was put out of temper.

"Trouble me no more," he snapped at Cahusac, who came growling to him again. "Send word to
Don Miguel that you have seceded from me. He'll give you safe conduct, devil a doubt. Then
take one of the sloops, order your men aboard and put to sea, and the devil go with you."

Cahusac would certainly have adopted that course if only his men had been unanimous in the
matter. They, however, were torn between greed and apprehension. If they went they must abandon
their share of the plunder, which was considerable, as well as the slaves and other prisoners
they had taken. If they did this, and Captain Blood should afterwards contrive to get away
unscathed--and from their knowledge of his resourcefulness, the thing, however unlikely, need
not be impossible--he must profit by that which they now relinquished. This was a contingency
too bitter for contemplation. And so, in the end, despite all that Cahusac could say, the surrender
was not to Don Miguel, but to Peter Blood. They had come into the venture with him, they asserted,
and they would go out of it with him or not at all. That was the message he received from them
that same evening by the sullen mouth of Cahusac himself.

He welcomed it, and invited the Breton to sit down and join the council which was even then
deliberating upon the means to be employed. This council occupied the spacious patio of the
Governor's house--which Captain Blood had appropriated to his own uses--a cloistered stone
quadrangle in the middle of which a fountain played coolly under a trellis of vine. Orange-trees
grew on two sides of it, and the still, evening air was heavy with the scent of them. It was
one of those pleasant exterior-interiors which Moorish architects had introduced to Spain and
the Spaniards had carried with them to the New World.

Here that council of war, composed of six men in all, deliberated until late that night upon
the plan of action which Captain Blood put forward.

The great freshwater lake of Maracaybo, nourished by a score of rivers from the snow-capped
ranges that surround it on two sides, is some hundred and twenty miles in length and almost
the same distance across at its widest. It is--as has been indicated--in the shape of a great
bottle having its neck towards the sea at Maracaybo.

Beyond this neck it widens again, and then the two long, narrow strips of land known as the
islands of Vigilias and Palomas block the channel, standing lengthwise across it. The only
passage out to sea for vessels of any draught lies in the narrow strait between these islands.
Palomas, which is some ten miles in length, is unapproachable for half a mile on either side
by any but the shallowest craft save at its eastern end, where, completely commanding the narrow
passage out to sea, stands the massive fort which the buccaneers had found deserted upon their
coming. In the broader water between this passage and the bar, the four Spanish ships were
at anchor in mid-channel. The Admiral's Encarnacion, which we already know, was a mighty galleon
of forty-eight great guns and eight small. Next in importance was the Salvador with thirty-six
guns; the other two, the Infanta and the San Felipe, though smaller vessels, were still formidable
enough with their twenty guns and a hundred and fifty men apiece.

Such was the fleet of which the gauntlet was to be run by Captain Blood with his own Arabella
of forty guns, the Elizabeth of twenty-six, and two sloops captured at Gibraltar, which they
had indifferently armed with four culverins each. In men they had a bare four hundred survivors
of the five hundred-odd that had left Tortuga, to oppose to fully a thousand Spaniards manning
the galleons.

The plan of action submitted by Captain Blood to that council was a desperate one, as Cahusac
uncompromisingly pronounced it.

"Why, so it is," said the Captain. "But I've done things more desperate." Complacently he pulled
at a pipe that was loaded with that fragrant Sacerdotes tobacco for which Gibraltar was famous,
and of which they had brought away some hogsheads. "And what is more, they've succeeded. Audaces
fortuna juvat. Bedad, they knew their world, the old Romans."

He breathed into his companions and even into Cahusac some of his own spirit of confidence,
and in confidence all went busily to work. For three days from sunrise to sunset, the buccaneers
laboured and sweated to complete the preparations for the action that was to procure them their
deliverance. Time pressed. They must strike before Don Miguel de Espinosa received the reenforcement
of that fifth galleon, the Santo Nino, which was coming to join him from La Guayra.

Their principal operations were on the larger of the two sloops captured at Gibraltar; to which
vessel was assigned the leading part in Captain Blood's scheme. They began by tearing down
all bulkheads, until they had reduced her to the merest shell, and in her sides they broke
open so many ports that her gunwale was converted into the semblance of a grating. Next they
increased by a half-dozen the scuttles in her deck, whilst into her hull they packed all the
tar and pitch and brimstone that they could find in the town, to which they added six barrels
of gunpowder, placed on end like guns at the open ports on her larboard side. On the evening
of the fourth day, everything being now in readiness, all were got aboard, and the empty, pleasant
city of Maracaybo was at last abandoned. But they did not weigh anchor until some two hours
after midnight. Then, at last, on the first of the ebb, they drifted silently down towards
the bar with all canvas furled save only their spiltsails, which, so as to give them steering
way, were spread to the faint breeze that stirred through the purple darkness of the tropical
night.

The order of their going was as follows: Ahead went the improvised fire-ship in charge of Wolverstone,
with a crew of six volunteers, each of whom was to have a hundred pieces of eight over and
above his share of plunder as a special reward. Next came the Arabella. She was followed at
a distance by the Elizabeth, commanded by Hagthorpe, with whom was the now shipless Cahusac
and the bulk of his French followers. The rear was brought up by the second sloop and some
eight canoes, aboard of which had been shipped the prisoners, the slaves, and most of the captured
merchandise. The prisoners were all pinioned, and guarded by four buccaneers with musketoons
who manned these boats in addition to the two fellows who were to sail them. Their place was
to be in the rear and they were to take no part whatever in the coming fight.

As the first glimmerings of opalescent dawn dissolved the darkness, the straining eyes of the
buccaneers were able to make out the tall rigging of the Spanish vessels, riding at anchor
less than a quarter of a mile ahead. Entirely without suspicion as the Spaniards were, and
rendered confident by their own overwhelming strength, it is unlikely that they used a vigilance
keener than their careless habit. Certain it is that they did not sight Blood's fleet in that
dim light until some time after Blood's fleet had sighted them. By the time that they had actively
roused themselves, Wolverstone's sloop was almost upon them, speeding under canvas which had
been crowded to her yards the moment the galleons had loomed into view.

Straight for the Admiral's great ship, the Encarnacion, did Wolverstone head the sloop; then,
lashing down the helm, he kindled from a match that hung ready lighted beside him a great torch
of thickly plaited straw that had been steeped in bitumen. First it glowed, then as he swung
it round his head, it burst into flame, just as the slight vessel went crashing and bumping
and scraping against the side of the flagship, whilst rigging became tangled with rigging,
to the straining of yards and snapping of spars overhead. His six men stood at their posts
on the larboard side, stark naked, each armed with a grapnel, four of them on the gunwale,
two of them aloft. At the moment of impact these grapnels were slung to bind the Spaniard to
them, those aloft being intended to complete and preserve the entanglement of the rigging.

Aboard the rudely awakened galleon all was confused hurrying, scurrying, trumpeting, and shouting.
At first there had been a desperately hurried attempt to get up the anchor; but this was abandoned
as being already too late; and conceiving themselves on the point of being boarded, the Spaniards
stood to arms to ward off the onslaught. Its slowness in coming intrigued them, being so different
from the usual tactics of the buccaneers. Further intrigued were they by the sight of the gigantic
Wolverstone speeding naked along his deck with a great flaming torch held high. Not until he
had completed his work did they begin to suspect the truth--that he was lighting slow-matches--and
then one of their officers rendered reckless by panic ordered a boarding-party on to the shop.

The order came too late. Wolverstone had seen his six fellows drop overboard after the grapnels
were fixed, and then had sped, himself, to the starboard gunwale. Thence he flung his flaming
torch down the nearest gaping scuttle into the hold, and thereupon dived overboard in his turn,
to be picked up presently by the longboat from the Arabella. But before that happened the sloop
was a thing of fire, from which explosions were hurling blazing combustibles aboard the Encarnacion,
and long tongues of flame were licking out to consume the galleon, beating back those daring
Spaniards who, too late, strove desperately to cut her adrift.

And whilst the most formidable vessel of the Spanish fleet was thus being put out of action
at the outset, Blood had sailed in to open fire upon the Salvador. First athwart her hawse
he had loosed a broadside that had swept her decks with terrific effect, then going on and
about, he had put a second broadside into her hull at short range. Leaving her thus half-crippled,
temporarily, at least, and keeping to his course, he had bewildered the crew of the Infanta
by a couple of shots from the chasers on his beak-head, then crashed alongside to grapple and
board her, whilst Hagthorpe was doing the like by the San Felipe.

And in all this time not a single shot had the Spaniards contrived to fire, so completely had
they been taken by surprise, and so swift and paralyzing had been Blood's stroke.

Boarded now and faced by the cold steel of the buccaneers, neither the San Felipe nor the Infanta
offered much resistance. The sight of their admiral in flames, and the Salvador drifting crippled
from the action, had so utterly disheartened them that they accounted themselves vanquished,
and laid down their arms.

If by a resolute stand the Salvador had encouraged the other two undamaged vessels to resistance,
the Spaniards might well have retrieved the fortunes of the day. But it happened that the Salvador
was handicapped in true Spanish fashion by being the treasure-ship of the fleet, with plate
on board to the value of some fifty thousand pieces. Intent above all upon saving this from
falling into the hands of the pirates, Don Miguel, who, with a remnant of his crew, had meanwhile
transferred himself aboard her, headed her down towards Palomas and the fort that guarded the
passage. This fort the Admiral, in those days of waiting, had taken the precaution secretly
to garrison and rearm. For the purpose he had stripped the fort of Cojero, farther out on the
gulf, of its entire armament, which included some cannon-royal of more than ordinary range
and power.

With no suspicion of this, Captain Blood gave chase, accompanied by the Infanta, which was
manned now by a prize-crew under the command of Yberville. The stern chasers of the Salvador
desultorily returned the punishing fire of the pursuers; but such was the damage she, herself,
sustained, that presently, coming under the guns of the fort, she began to sink, and finally
settled down in the shallows with part of her hull above water. Thence, some in boats and some
by swimming, the Admiral got his crew ashore on Palomas as best he could.

And then, just as Captain Blood accounted the victory won, and that his way out of that trap
to the open sea beyond lay clear, the fort suddenly revealed its formidable and utterly unsuspected
strength. With a roar the cannons-royal proclaimed themselves, and the Arabella staggered under
a blow that smashed her bulwarks at the waist and scattered death and confusion among the seamen
gathered there.

Had not Pitt, her master, himself seized the whipstaff and put the helm hard over to swing
her sharply off to starboard, she must have suffered still worse from the second volley that
followed fast upon the first.

Meanwhile it had fared even worse with the frailer Infanta. Although hit by one shot only,
this had crushed her larboard timbers on the waterline, starting a leak that must presently
have filled her, but for the prompt action of the experienced Yberville in ordering her larboard
guns to be flung overboard. Thus lightened, and listing now to starboard, he fetched her about,
and went staggering after the retreating Arabella, followed by the fire of the fort, which
did them, however, little further damage.

Out of range, at last, they lay to, joined by the Elizabeth and the San Felipe, to consider
their position.

CHAPTER XVII. THE DUPES

It was a crestfallen Captain Blood who presided over that hastily summoned council held on
the poop-deck of the Arabella in the brilliant morning sunshine. It was, he declared afterwards,
one of the bitterest moments in his career. He was compelled to digest the fact that having
conducted the engagement with a skill of which he might justly be proud, having destroyed a
force so superior in ships and guns and men that Don Miguel de Espinosa had justifiably deemed
it overwhelming, his victory was rendered barren by three lucky shots from an unsuspected battery
by which they had been surprised. And barren must their victory remain until they could reduce
the fort that still remained to defend the passage.

At first Captain Blood was for putting his ships in order and making the attempt there and
then. But the others dissuaded him from betraying an impetuosity usually foreign to him, and
born entirely of chagrin and mortification, emotions which will render unreasonable the most
reasonable of men. With returning calm, he surveyed the situation. The Arabella was no longer
in case to put to sea; the Infanta was merely kept afloat by artifice, and the San Felipe was
almost as sorely damaged by the fire she had sustained from the buccaneers before surrendering.

Clearly, then, he was compelled to admit in the end that nothing remained but to return to
Maracaybo, there to refit the ships before attempting to force the passage.

And so, back to Maracaybo came those defeated victors of that short, terrible fight. And if
anything had been wanting further to exasperate their leader, he had it in the pessimism of
which Cahusac did not economize expressions. Transported at first to heights of dizzy satisfaction
by the swift and easy victory of their inferior force that morning, the Frenchman was now plunged
back and more deeply than ever into the abyss of hopelessness. And his mood infected at least
the main body of his own followers.

"It is the end," he told Captain Blood. "This time we are checkmated."

"I'll take the liberty of reminding you that you said the same before," Captain Blood answered
him as patiently as he could. "Yet you've seen what you've seen, and you'll not deny that in
ships and guns we are returning stronger than we went. Look at our present fleet, man."

"I am looking at it," said Cahusac.

"Pish! Ye're a white-livered cur when all is said."

"You call me a coward?"

"I'll take that liberty."

The Breton glared at him, breathing hard. But he had no mind to ask satisfaction for the insult.
He knew too well the kind of satisfaction that Captain Blood was likely to afford him. He remembered
the fate of Levasseur. So he confined himself to words.

"It is too much! You go too far!" he complained bitterly.

"Look you, Cahusac: it's sick and tired I am of your perpetual whining and complaining when
things are not as smooth as a convent dining-table. If ye wanted things smooth and easy, ye
shouldn't have taken to the sea, and ye should never ha' sailed with me, for with me things
are never smooth and easy. And that, I think, is all I have to say to you this morning."

Cahusac flung away cursing, and went to take the feeling of his men.

Captain Blood went off to give his surgeon's skill to the wounded, among whom he remained engaged
until late afternoon. Then, at last, he went ashore, his mind made up, and returned to the
house of the Governor, to indite a truculent but very scholarly letter in purest Castilian
to Don Miguel.

"I have shown your excellency this morning of what I am capable," he wrote. "Although outnumbered
by more than two to one in men, in ships, and in guns, I have sunk or captured the vessels
of the great fleet with which you were to come to Maracaybo to destroy us. So that you are
no longer in case to carry out your boast, even when your reenforcements on the Santo Nino,
reach you from La Guayra. From what has occurred, you may judge of what must occur. I should
not trouble your excellency with this letter but that I am a humane man, abhorring bloodshed.
Therefore before proceeding to deal with your fort, which you may deem invincible, as I have
dealt already with your fleet, which you deemed invincible, I make you, purely out of humanitarian
considerations, this last offer of terms. I will spare this city of Maracaybo and forthwith
evacuate it, leaving behind me the forty prisoners I have taken, in consideration of your paying
me the sum of fifty thousand pieces of eight and one hundred head of cattle as a ransom, thereafter
granting me unmolested passage of the bar. My prisoners, most of whom are persons of consideration,
I will retain as hostages until after my departure, sending them back in the canoes which we
shall take with us for that purpose. If your excellency should be so ill-advised as to refuse
these terms, and thereby impose upon me the necessity of reducing your fort at the cost of
some lives, I warn you that you may expect no quarter from us, and that I shall begin by leaving
a heap of ashes where this pleasant city of Maracaybo now stands."

The letter written, he bade them bring him from among the prisoners the Deputy-Governor of
Maracaybo, who had been taken at Gibraltar. Disclosing its contents to him, he despatched him
with it to Don Miguel.

His choice of a messenger was shrewd. The Deputy-Governor was of all men the most anxious for
the deliverance of his city, the one man who on his own account would plead most fervently
for its preservation at all costs from the fate with which Captain Blood was threatening it.
And as he reckoned so it befell. The Deputy-Governor added his own passionate pleading to the
proposals of the letter.

But Don Miguel was of stouter heart. True, his fleet had been partly destroyed and partly captured.
But then, he argued, he had been taken utterly by surprise. That should not happen again. There
should be no surprising the fort. Let Captain Blood do his worst at Maracaybo, there should
be a bitter reckoning for him when eventually he decided--as, sooner or later, decide he must--to
come forth. The Deputy-Governor was flung into panic. He lost his temper, and said some hard
things to the Admiral. But they were not as hard as the thing the Admiral said to him in answer.

"Had you been as loyal to your King in hindering the entrance of these cursed pirates as I
shall be in hindering their going forth again, we should not now find ourselves in our present
straits. So weary me no more with your coward counsels. I make no terms with Captain Blood.
I know my duty to my King, and I intend to perform it. I also know my duty to myself. I have
a private score with this rascal, and I intend to settle it. Take you that message back."

So back to Maracaybo, back to his own handsome house in which Captain Blood had established
his quarters, came the Deputy-Governor with the Admiral's answer. And because he had been shamed
into a show of spirit by the Admiral's own stout courage in adversity, he delivered it as truculently
as the Admiral could have desired. "And is it like that?" said Captain Blood with a quiet smile,
though the heart of him sank at this failure of his bluster. "Well, well, it's a pity now that
the Admiral's so headstrong. It was that way he lost his fleet, which was his own to lose.
This pleasant city of Maracaybo isn't. So no doubt he'll lose it with fewer misgivings. I am
sorry. Waste, like bloodshed, is a thing abhorrent to me. But there ye are! I'll have the faggots
to the place in the morning, and maybe when he sees the blaze to-morrow night he'll begin to
believe that Peter Blood is a man of his word. Ye may go, Don Francisco."

The Deputy-Governor went out with dragging feet, followed by guards, his momentary truculence
utterly spent.

But no sooner had he departed than up leapt Cahusac, who had been of the council assembled
to receive the Admiral's answer. His face was white and his hands shook as he held them out
in protest.

"Death of my life, what have you to say now?" he cried, his voice husky. And without waiting
to hear what it might be, he raved on: "I knew you not frighten the Admiral so easy. He hold
us entrap', and he knows it; yet you dream that he will yield himself to your impudent message.
Your fool letter it have seal' the doom of us all."

"Have ye done?" quoth Blood quietly, as the Frenchman paused for breath.

"No, I have not."

"Then spare me the rest. It'll be of the same quality, devil a doubt, and it doesn't help us
to solve the riddle that's before us."

"But what are you going to do? Is it that you will tell me?" It was not a question, it was
a demand.

"How the devil do I know? I was hoping you'd have some ideas yourself. But since Ye're so desperately
concerned to save your skin, you and those that think like you are welcome to leave us. I've
no doubt at all the Spanish Admiral will welcome the abatement of our numbers even at this
late date. Ye shall have the sloop as a parting gift from us, and ye can join Don Miguel in
the fort for all I care, or for all the good ye're likely to be to us in this present pass."

"It is to my men to decide," Cahusac retorted, swallowing his fury, and on that stalked out
to talk to them, leaving the others to deliberate in peace.

Next morning early he sought Captain Blood again. He found him alone in the patio, pacing to
and fro, his head sunk on his breast. Cahusac mistook consideration for dejection. Each of
us carries in himself a standard by which to measure his neighbour.

"We have take' you at your word, Captain," he announced, between sullenness and defiance. Captain
Blood paused, shoulders hunched, hands behind his back, and mildly regarded the buccaneer in
silence. Cahusac explained himself. "Last night I send one of my men to the Spanish Admiral
with a letter. I make him offer to capitulate if he will accord us passage with the honours
of war. This morning I receive his answer. He accord us this on the understanding that we carry
nothing away with us. My men they are embarking them on the sloop. We sail at once."

"Bon voyage," said Captain Blood, and with a nod he turned on his heel again to resume his
interrupted mediation.

"Is that all that you have to say to me?" cried Cahusac.

"There are other things," said Blood over his shoulder. "But I know ye wouldn't like them."

"Ha! Then it's adieu, my Captain." Venomously he added: "It is my belief that we shall not
meet again."

"Your belief is my hope," said Captain Blood.

Cahusac flung away, obscenely vituperative. Before noon he was under way with his followers,
some sixty dejected men who had allowed themselves to be persuaded by him into that empty-handed
departure--in spite even of all that Yberville could do to prevent it. The Admiral kept faith
with him, and allowed him free passage out to sea, which, from his knowledge of Spaniards,
was more than Captain Blood had expected.

Meanwhile, no sooner had the deserters weighed anchor than Captain Blood received word that
the Deputy-Governor begged to be allowed to see him again. Admitted, Don Francisco at once
displayed the fact that a night's reflection had quickened his apprehensions for the city of
Maracaybo and his condemnation of the Admiral's intransigence.

Captain Blood received him pleasantly.

"Good-morning to you, Don Francisco. I have postponed the bonfire until nightfall. It will
make a better show in the dark."

Don Francisco, a slight, nervous, elderly man of high lineage and low vitality, came straight
to business.

"I am here to tell you, Don Pedro, that if you will hold your hand for three days, I will undertake
to raise the ransom you demand, which Don Miguel de Espinosa refuses."

Captain Blood confronted him, a frown contracting the dark brows above his light eyes:

"And where will you be raising it?" quoth he, faintly betraying his surprise.

Don Francisco shook his head. "That must remain my affair," he answered. "I know where it is
to be found, and my compatriots must contribute. Give me leave for three days on parole, and
I will see you fully satisfied. Meanwhile my son remains in your hands as a hostage for my
return." And upon that he fell to pleading. But in this he was crisply interrupted.

"By the Saints! Ye're a bold man, Don Francisco, to come to me with such a tale--to tell me
that ye know where the ransom's to be raised, and yet to refuse to say. D'ye think now that
with a match between your fingers ye'd grow more communicative?"

If Don Francisco grew a shade paler, yet again he shook his head.

"That was the way of Morgan and L'Ollonais and other pirates. But it is not the way of Captain
Blood. If I had doubted that I should not have disclosed so much."

The Captain laughed. "You old rogue," said he. "Ye play upon my vanity, do you?"

"Upon your honour, Captain."

"The honour of a pirate? Ye're surely crazed!"

"The honour of Captain Blood," Don Francisco insisted. "You have the repute of making war like
a gentleman."

Captain Blood laughed again, on a bitter, sneering note that made Don Francisco fear the worst.
He was not to guess that it was himself the Captain mocked.

"That's merely because it's more remunerative in the end. And that is why you are accorded
the three days you ask for. So about it, Don Francisco. You shall have what mules you need.
I'll see to it."

Away went Don Francisco on his errand, leaving Captain Blood to reflect, between bitterness
and satisfaction, that a reputation for as much chivalry as is consistent with piracy is not
without its uses.

Punctually on the third day the Deputy-Governor was back in Maracaybo with his mules laden
with plate and money to the value demanded and a herd of a hundred head of cattle driven in
by negro slaves.

These bullocks were handed over to those of the company who ordinarily were boucan-hunters,
and therefore skilled in the curing of meats, and for best part of a week thereafter they were
busy at the waterside with the quartering and salting of carcases.

While this was doing on the one hand and the ships were being refitted for sea on the other,
Captain Blood was pondering the riddle on the solution of which his own fate depended. Indian
spies whom he employed brought him word that the Spaniards, working at low tide, had salved
the thirty guns of the Salvador, and thus had added yet another battery to their already overwhelming
strength. In the end, and hoping for inspiration on the spot, Captain Blood made a reconnaissance
in person. At the risk of his life, accompanied by two friendly Indians, he crossed to the
island in a canoe under cover of dark. They concealed themselves and the canoe in the short
thick scrub with which that side of the island was densely covered, and lay there until daybreak.
Then Blood went forward alone, and with infinite precaution, to make his survey. He went to
verify a suspicion that he had formed, and approached the fort as nearly as he dared and a
deal nearer than was safe.

On all fours he crawled to the summit of an eminence a mile or so away, whence he found himself
commanding a view of the interior dispositions of the stronghold. By the aid of a telescope
with which he had equipped himself he was able to verify that, as he had suspected and hoped,
the fort's artillery was all mounted on the seaward side.

Satisfied, he returned to Maracaybo, and laid before the six who composed his council--Pitt,
Hagthorpe, Yberville, Wolverstone, Dyke, and Ogle--a proposal to storm the fort from the landward
side. Crossing to the island under cover of night, they would take the Spaniards by surprise
and attempt to overpower them before they could shift their guns to meet the onslaught.

With the exception of Wolverstone, who was by temperament the kind of man who favours desperate
chances, those officers received the proposal coldly. Hagthorpe incontinently opposed it.

"It's a harebrained scheme, Peter," he said gravely, shaking his handsome head. "Consider now
that we cannot depend upon approaching unperceived to a distance whence we might storm the
fort before the cannon could be moved. But even if we could, we can take no cannon ourselves;
we must depend entirely upon our small arms, and how shall we, a bare three hundred" (for this
was the number to which Cahusac's defection had reduced them), "cross the open to attack more
than twice that number under cover?"

The others--Dyke, Ogle, Yberville, and even Pitt, whom loyalty to Blood may have made reluctant--loudly
approved him. When they had done, "I have considered all," said Captain Blood. "I have weighed
the risks and studied how to lessen them. In these desperate straits...."

He broke off abruptly. A moment he frowned, deep in thought; then his face was suddenly alight
with inspiration. Slowly he drooped his head, and sat there considering, weighing, chin on
breast. Then he nodded, muttering, "Yes," and again, "Yes." He looked up, to face them. "Listen,"
he cried. "You may be right. The risks may be too heavy. Whether or not, I have thought of
a better way. That which should have been the real attack shall be no more than a feint. Here,
then, is the plan I now propose."

He talked swiftly and clearly, and as he talked one by one his officers' faces became alight
with eagerness. When he had done, they cried as with one voice that he had saved them.

"That is yet to be proved in action," said he.

Since for the last twenty-four hours all had been in readiness for departure, there was nothing
now to delay them, and it was decided to move next morning.

Such was Captain Blood's assurance of success that he immediately freed the prisoners held
as hostages, and even the negro slaves, who were regarded by the others as legitimate plunder.
His only precaution against those released prisoners was to order them into the church and
there lock them up, to await deliverance at the hands of those who should presently be coming
into the city.

Then, all being aboard the three ships, with the treasure safely stowed in their holds and
the slaves under hatches, the buccaneers weighed anchor and stood out for the bar, each vessel
towing three piraguas astern.

The Admiral, beholding their stately advance in the full light of noon, their sails gleaming
white in the glare of the sunlight, rubbed his long, lean hands in satisfaction, and laughed
through his teeth.

"At last!" he cried. "God delivers him into my hands!" He turned to the group of staring officers
behind him. "Sooner or later it had to be," he said. "Say now, gentlemen, whether I am justified
of my patience. Here end to-day the troubles caused to the subjects of the Catholic King by
this infamous Don Pedro Sangre, as he once called himself to me."

He turned to issue orders, and the fort became lively as a hive. The guns were manned, the
gunners already kindling fuses, when the buccaneer fleet, whilst still heading for Palomas,
was observed to bear away to the west. The Spaniards watched them, intrigued.

Within a mile and a half to westward of the fort, and within a half-mile of the shore--that
is to say, on the very edge of the shoal water that makes Palomas unapproachable on either
side by any but vessels of the shallowest draught--the four ships cast anchor well within the
Spaniards' view, but just out of range of their heaviest cannon.

Sneeringly the Admiral laughed.

"Aha! They hesitate, these English dogs! Por Dios, and well they may."

"They will be waiting for night," suggested his nephew, who stood at his elbow quivering with
excitement.

Don Miguel looked at him, smiling. "And what shall the night avail them in this narrow passage,
under the very muzzles of my guns? Be sure, Esteban, that to-night your father will be paid for."

He raised his telescope to continue his observation of the buccaneers. He saw that the piraguas
towed by each vessel were being warped alongside, and he wondered a little what this manoeuver
might portend. Awhile those piraguas were hidden from view behind the hulls. Then one by one
they reappeared, rowing round and away from the ships, and each boat, he observed, was crowded
with armed men. Thus laden, they were headed for the shore, at a point where it was densely
wooded to the water's edge. The eyes of the wondering Admiral followed them until the foliage
screened them from his view.

Then he lowered his telescope and looked at his officers.

"What the devil does it mean?" he asked.

None answered him, all being as puzzled as he was himself.

After a little while, Esteban, who kept his eyes on the water, plucked at his uncle's sleeve.
"There they go!" he cried, and pointed.

And there, indeed, went the piraguas on their way back to the ships. But now it was observed
that they were empty, save for the men who rowed them. Their armed cargo had been left ashore.

Back to the ships they pulled, to return again presently with a fresh load of armed men, which
similarly they conveyed to Palomas. And at last one of the Spanish officers ventured an explanation:

"They are going to attack us by land--to attempt to storm the fort."

"Of course." The Admiral smiled. "I had guessed it. Whom the gods would destroy they first
make mad."

"Shall we make a sally?" urged Esteban, in his excitement.

"A sally? Through that scrub? That would be to play into their hands. No, no, we will wait
here to receive this attack. Whenever it comes, it is themselves will be destroyed, and utterly.
Have no doubt of that."

But by evening the Admiral's equanimity was not quite so perfect. By then the piraguas had
made a half-dozen journeys with their loads of men, and they had landed also--as Don Miguel
had clearly observed through his telescope--at least a dozen guns.

His countenance no longer smiled; it was a little wrathful and a little troubled now as he
turned again to his officers.

"Who was the fool who told me that they number but three hundred men in all? They have put
at least twice that number ashore already."

Amazed as he was, his amazement would have been deeper had he been told the truth: that there
was not a single buccaneer or a single gun ashore on Palomas. The deception had been complete.
Don Miguel could not guess that the men he had beheld in those piraguas were always the same;
that on the journeys to the shore they sat and stood upright in full view; and that on the
journeys back to the ships, they lay invisible at the bottom of the boats, which were thus
made to appear empty.

The growing fears of the Spanish soldiery at the prospect of a night attack from the landward
side by the entire buccaneer force--and a force twice as strong as they had suspected the pestilent
Blood to command--began to be communicated to the Admiral.

In the last hours of fading daylight, the Spaniards did precisely what Captain Blood so confidently
counted that they would do--precisely what they must do to meet the attack, preparations for
which had been so thoroughly simulated. They set themselves to labour like the damned at those
ponderous guns emplaced to command the narrow passage out to sea.

Groaning and sweating, urged on by the curses and even the whips of their officers, they toiled
in a frenzy of panic-stricken haste to shift the greater number and the more powerful of their
guns across to the landward side, there to emplace them anew, so that they might be ready to
receive the attack which at any moment now might burst upon them from the woods not half a
mile away.

Thus, when night fell, although in mortal anxiety of the onslaught of those wild devils whose
reckless courage was a byword on the seas of the Main, at least the Spaniards were tolerably
prepared for it. Waiting, they stood to their guns.

And whilst they waited thus, under cover of the darkness and as the tide began to ebb, Captain
Blood's fleet weighed anchor quietly; and, as once before, with no more canvas spread than
that which their sprits could carry, so as to give them steering way--and even these having
been painted black--the four vessels, without a light showing, groped their way by soundings
to the channel which led to that narrow passage out to sea.

The Elizabeth and the Infanta, leading side by side, were almost abreast of the fort before
their shadowy bulks and the soft gurgle of water at their prows were detected by the Spaniards,
whose attention until that moment had been all on the other side. And now there arose on the
night air such a sound of human baffled fury as may have resounded about Babel at the confusion
of tongues. To heighten that confusion, and to scatter disorder among the Spanish soldiery,
the Elizabeth emptied her larboard guns into the fort as she was swept past on the swift ebb.

At once realizing--though not yet how--he had been duped, and that his prey was in the very
act of escaping after all, the Admiral frantically ordered the guns that had been so laboriously
moved to be dragged back to their former emplacements, and commanded his gunners meanwhile
to the slender batteries that of all his powerful, but now unavailable, armament still remained
trained upon the channel. With these, after the loss of some precious moments, the fort at
last made fire.

It was answered by a terrific broadside from the Arabella, which had now drawn abreast, and
was crowding canvas to her yards. The enraged and gibbering Spaniards had a brief vision of
her as the line of flame spurted from her red flank, and the thunder of her broadside drowned
the noise of the creaking halyards. After that they saw her no more. Assimilated by the friendly
darkness which the lesser Spanish guns were speculatively stabbing, the escaping ships fired
never another shot that might assist their baffled and bewildered enemies to locate them.

Some slight damage was sustained by Blood's fleet. But by the time the Spaniards had resolved
their confusion into some order of dangerous offence, that fleet, well served by a southerly
breeze, was through the narrows and standing out to sea.

Thus was Don Miguel de Espinosa left to chew the bitter cud of a lost opportunity, and to consider
in what terms he would acquaint the Supreme Council of the Catholic King that Peter Blood had
got away from Maracaybo, taking with him two twenty-gun frigates that were lately the property
of Spain, to say nothing of two hundred and fifty thousand pieces of eight and other plunder.
And all this in spite of Don Miguel's four galleons and his heavily armed fort that at one
time had held the pirates so securely trapped.

Heavy, indeed, grew the account of Peter Blood, which Don Miguel swore passionately to Heaven
should at all costs to himself be paid in full.

Nor were the losses already detailed the full total of those suffered on this occasion by the
King of Spain. For on the following evening, off the coast of Oruba, at the mouth of the Gulf
of Venezuela, Captain Blood's fleet came upon the belated Santo Nino, speeding under full sail
to reenforce Don Miguel at Maracaybo.

At first the Spaniard had conceived that she was meeting the victorious fleet of Don Miguel,
returning from the destruction of the pirates. When at comparatively close quarters the pennon
of St. George soared to the Arabella's masthead to disillusion her, the Santo Nino chose the
better part of valour, and struck her flag.

Captain Blood ordered her crew to take to the boats, and land themselves at Oruba or wherever
else they pleased. So considerate was he that to assist them he presented them with several
of the piraguas which he still had in tow.

"You will find," said he to her captain, "that Don Miguel is in an extremely bad temper. Commend
me to him, and say that I venture to remind him that he must blame himself for all the ills
that have befallen him. The evil has recoiled upon him which he loosed when he sent his brother
unofficially to make a raid upon the island of Barbados. Bid him think twice before he lets
his devils loose upon an English settlement again."

With that he dismissed the Captain, who went over the side of the Santo Nino, and Captain Blood
proceeded to investigate the value of this further prize. When her hatches were removed, a
human cargo was disclosed in her hold.

"Slaves," said Wolverstone, and persisted in that belief cursing Spanish devilry until Cahusac
crawled up out of the dark bowels of the ship, and stood blinking in the sunlight.

There was more than sunlight to make the Breton pirate blink. And those that crawled out after
him--the remnants of his crew--cursed him horribly for the pusillanimity which had brought
them into the ignominy of owing their deliverance to those whom they had deserted as lost beyond
hope.

Their sloop had encountered and had been sunk three days ago by the Santo Nino, and Cahusac
had narrowly escaped hanging merely that for some time he might be a mock among the Brethren
of the Coast.

For many a month thereafter he was to hear in Tortuga the jeering taunt:

"Where do you spend the gold that you brought back from Maracaybo?"

CHAPTER XVIII. THE MILAGROSA

The affair at Maracaybo is to be considered as Captain Blood's buccaneering masterpiece. Although
there is scarcely one of the many actions that he fought--recorded in such particular detail
by Jeremy Pitt--which does not afford some instance of his genius for naval tactics, yet in
none is this more shiningly displayed than in those two engagements by which he won out of
the trap which Don Miguel de Espinosa had sprung upon him.

The fame which he had enjoyed before this, great as it already was, is dwarfed into insignificance
by the fame that followed. It was a fame such as no buccaneer--not even Morgan--has ever boasted,
before or since.

In Tortuga, during the months he spent there refitting the three ships he had captured from
the fleet that had gone out to destroy him, he found himself almost an object of worship in
the eyes of the wild Brethren of the Coast, all of whom now clamoured for the honour of serving
under him. It placed him in the rare position of being able to pick and choose the crews for
his augmented fleet, and he chose fastidiously. When next he sailed away it was with a fleet
of five fine ships in which went something over a thousand men. Thus you behold him not merely
famous, but really formidable. The three captured Spanish vessels he had renamed with a certain
scholarly humour the Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, a grimly jocular manner of conveying to
the world that he made them the arbiters of the fate of any Spaniards he should henceforth
encounter upon the seas.

In Europe the news of this fleet, following upon the news of the Spanish Admiral's defeat at
Maracaybo, produced something of a sensation. Spain and England were variously and unpleasantly
exercised, and if you care to turn up the diplomatic correspondence exchanged on the subject,
you will find that it is considerable and not always amiable.

And meanwhile in the Caribbean, the Spanish Admiral Don Miguel de Espinosa might be said--to
use a term not yet invented in his day--to have run amok. The disgrace into which he had fallen
as a result of the disasters suffered at the hands of Captain Blood had driven the Admiral
all but mad. It is impossible, if we impose our minds impartially, to withhold a certain sympathy
from Don Miguel. Hate was now this unfortunate man's daily bread, and the hope of vengeance
an obsession to his mind. As a madman he went raging up and down the Caribbean seeking his
enemy, and in the meantime, as an hors d'oeuvre to his vindictive appetite, he fell upon any
ship of England or of France that loomed above his horizon.

I need say no more to convey the fact that this illustrious sea-captain and great gentleman
of Castile had lost his head, and was become a pirate in his turn. The Supreme Council of Castile
might anon condemn him for his practices. But how should that matter to one who already was
condemned beyond redemption? On the contrary, if he should live to lay the audacious and ineffable
Blood by the heels, it was possible that Spain might view his present irregularities and earlier
losses with a more lenient eye.

And so, reckless of the fact that Captain Blood was now in vastly superior strength, the Spaniard
sought him up and down the trackless seas. But for a whole year he sought him vainly. The circumstances
in which eventually they met are very curious.

An intelligent observation of the facts of human existence will reveal to shallow-minded folk
who sneer at the use of coincidence in the arts of fiction and drama that life itself is little
more than a series of coincidences. Open the history of the past at whatsoever page you will,
and there you shall find coincidence at work bringing about events that the merest chance might
have averted. Indeed, coincidence may be defined as the very tool used by Fate to shape the
destinies of men and nations.

Observe it now at work in the affairs of Captain Blood and of some others.

On the 15th September of the year 1688--a memorable year in the annals of England--three ships
were afloat upon the Caribbean, which in their coming conjunctions were to work out the fortunes
of several persons.

The first of these was Captain Blood's flagship the Arabella, which had been separated from
the buccaneer fleet in a hurricane off the Lesser Antilles. In somewhere about 17 deg. N. Lat.,
and 74 deg. Long., she was beating up for the Windward Passage, before the intermittent southeasterly
breezes of that stifling season, homing for Tortuga, the natural rendezvous of the dispersed
vessels.

The second ship was the great Spanish galleon, the Milagrosa, which, accompanied by the smaller
frigate Hidalga, lurked off the Caymites, to the north of the long peninsula that thrusts out
from the southwest corner of Hispaniola. Aboard the Milagrosa sailed the vindictive Don Miguel.

The third and last of these ships with which we are at present concerned was an English man-of-war,
which on the date I have given was at anchor in the French port of St. Nicholas on the northwest
coast of Hispaniola. She was on her way from Plymouth to Jamaica, and carried on board a very
distinguished passenger in the person of Lord Julian Wade, who came charged by his kinsman,
my Lord Sunderland, with a mission of some consequence and delicacy, directly arising out of
that vexatious correspondence between England and Spain.

The French Government, like the English, excessively annoyed by the depredations of the buccaneers,
and the constant straining of relations with Spain that ensued, had sought in vain to put them
down by enjoining the utmost severity against them upon her various overseas governors. But
these, either--like the Governor of Tortuga--throve out of a scarcely tacit partnership with
the filibusters, or--like the Governor of French Hispaniola--felt that they were to be encouraged
as a check upon the power and greed of Spain, which might otherwise be exerted to the disadvantage
of the colonies of other nations. They looked, indeed, with apprehension upon recourse to any
vigorous measures which must result in driving many of the buccaneers to seek new hunting-grounds
in the South Sea.

To satisfy King James's anxiety to conciliate Spain, and in response to the Spanish Ambassador's
constant and grievous expostulations, my Lord Sunderland, the Secretary of State, had appointed
a strong man to the deputy-governorship of Jamaica. This strong man was that Colonel Bishop
who for some years now had been the most influential planter in Barbados.

Colonel Bishop had accepted the post, and departed from the plantations in which his great
wealth was being amassed with an eagerness that had its roots in a desire to pay off a score
of his own with Peter Blood.

From his first coming to Jamaica, Colonel Bishop had made himself felt by the buccaneers. But
do what he might, the one buccaneer whom he made his particular quarry--that Peter Blood who
once had been his slave--eluded him ever, and continued undeterred and in great force to harass
the Spaniards upon sea and land, and to keep the relations between England and Spain in a state
of perpetual ferment, particularly dangerous in those days when the peace of Europe was precariously
maintained.

Exasperated not only by his own accumulated chagrin, but also by the reproaches for his failure
which reached him from London, Colonel Bishop actually went so far as to consider hunting his
quarry in Tortuga itself and making an attempt to clear the island of the buccaneers it sheltered.
Fortunately for himself, he abandoned the notion of so insane an enterprise, deterred not only
by the enormous natural strength of the place, but also by the reflection that a raid upon
what was, nominally at least, a French settlement, must be attended by grave offence to France.
Yet short of some such measure, it appeared to Colonel Bishop that he was baffled. He confessed
as much in a letter to the Secretary of State.

This letter and the state of things which it disclosed made my Lord Sunderland despair of solving
this vexatious problem by ordinary means. He turned to the consideration of extraordinary ones,
and bethought him of the plan adopted with Morgan, who had been enlisted into the King's service
under Charles II. It occurred to him that a similar course might be similarly effective with
Captain Blood. His lordship did not omit the consideration that Blood's present outlawry might
well have been undertaken not from inclination, but under stress of sheer necessity; that he
had been forced into it by the circumstances of his transportation, and that he would welcome
the opportunity of emerging from it.

Acting upon this conclusion, Sunderland sent out his kinsman, Lord Julian Wade, with some commissions
made out in blank, and full directions as to the course which the Secretary considered it desirable
to pursue and yet full discretion in the matter of pursuing them. The crafty Sunderland, master
of all labyrinths of intrigue, advised his kinsman that in the event of his finding Blood intractable,
or judging for other reasons that it was not desirable to enlist him in the King's service,
he should turn his attention to the officers serving under him, and by seducing them away from
him leave him so weakened that he must fall an easy victim to Colonel Bishop's fleet.

The Royal Mary--the vessel bearing that ingenious, tolerably accomplished, mildly dissolute,
entirely elegant envoy of my Lord Sunderland's--made a good passage to St. Nicholas, her last
port of call before Jamaica. It was understood that as a preliminary Lord Julian should report
himself to the Deputy-Governor at Port Royal, whence at need he might have himself conveyed
to Tortuga. Now it happened that the Deputy-Governor's niece had come to St. Nicholas some
months earlier on a visit to some relatives, and so that she might escape the insufferable
heat of Jamaica in that season. The time for her return being now at hand, a passage was sought
for her aboard the Royal Mary, and in view of her uncle's rank and position promptly accorded.

Lord Julian hailed her advent with satisfaction. It gave a voyage that had been full of interest
for him just the spice that it required to achieve perfection as an experience. His lordship
was one of your gallants to whom existence that is not graced by womankind is more or less
of a stagnation. Miss Arabella Bishop--this straight up and down slip of a girl with her rather
boyish voice and her almost boyish ease of movement--was not perhaps a lady who in England
would have commanded much notice in my lord's discerning eyes. His very sophisticated, carefully
educated tastes in such matters inclined him towards the plump, the languishing, and the quite
helplessly feminine. Miss Bishop's charms were undeniable. But they were such that it would
take a delicate-minded man to appreciate them; and my Lord Julian, whilst of a mind that was
very far from gross, did not possess the necessary degree of delicacy. I must not by this be
understood to imply anything against him.

It remained, however, that Miss Bishop was a young woman and a lady; and in the latitude into
which Lord Julian had strayed this was a phenomenon sufficiently rare to command attention.
On his side, with his title and position, his personal grace and the charm of a practised courtier,
he bore about him the atmosphere of the great world in which normally he had his being--a world
that was little more than a name to her, who had spent most of her life in the Antilles. It
is not therefore wonderful that they should have been attracted to each other before the Royal
Mary was warped out of St. Nicholas. Each could tell the other much upon which the other desired
information. He could regale her imagination with stories of St. James's--in many of which
he assigned himself a heroic, or at least a distinguished part--and she could enrich his mind
with information concerning this new world to which he had come.

Before they were out of sight of St. Nicholas they were good friends, and his lordship was
beginning to correct his first impressions of her and to discover the charm of that frank,
straightforward attitude of comradeship which made her treat every man as a brother. Considering
how his mind was obsessed with the business of his mission, it is not wonderful that he should
have come to talk to her of Captain Blood. Indeed, there was a circumstance that directly led
to it.

"I wonder now," he said, as they were sauntering on the poop, "if you ever saw this fellow
Blood, who was at one time on your uncle's plantations as a slave."

Miss Bishop halted. She leaned upon the taffrail, looking out towards the receding land, and
it was a moment before she answered in a steady, level voice:

"I saw him often. I knew him very well."

"Ye don't say!" His lordship was slightly moved out of an imperturbability that he had studiously
cultivated. He was a young man of perhaps eight-and-twenty, well above the middle height in
stature and appearing taller by virtue of his exceeding leanness. He had a thin, pale, rather
pleasing hatchet-face, framed in the curls of a golden periwig, a sensitive mouth and pale
blue eyes that lent his countenance a dreamy expression, a rather melancholy pensiveness. But
they were alert, observant eyes notwithstanding, although they failed on this occasion to observe
the slight change of colour which his question had brought to Miss Bishop's cheeks or the suspiciously
excessive composure of her answer.

"Ye don't say!" he repeated, and came to lean beside her. "And what manner of man did you find
him?"

"In those days I esteemed him for an unfortunate gentleman."

"You were acquainted with his story?"

"He told it me. That is why I esteemed him--for the calm fortitude with which he bore adversity.
Since then, considering what he has done, I have almost come to doubt if what he told me of
himself was true."

"If you mean of the wrongs he suffered at the hands of the Royal Commission that tried the
Monmouth rebels, there's little doubt that it would be true enough. He was never out with Monmouth;
that is certain. He was convicted on a point of law of which he may well have been ignorant
when he committed what was construed into treason. But, faith, he's had his revenge, after
a fashion."

"That," she said in a small voice, "is the unforgivable thing. It has destroyed him--deservedly."

"Destroyed him?" His lordship laughed a little. "Be none so sure of that. He has grown rich,
I hear. He has translated, so it is said, his Spanish spoils into French gold, which is being
treasured up for him in France. His future father-in-law, M. d'Ogeron, has seen to that."

"His future father-in-law?" said she, and stared at him round-eyed, with parted lips. Then
added: "M. d'Ogeron? The Governor of Tortuga?"

"The same. You see the fellow's well protected. It's a piece of news I gathered in St. Nicholas.
I am not sure that I welcome it, for I am not sure that it makes any easier a task upon which
my kinsman, Lord Sunderland, has sent me hither. But there it is. You didn't know?"

She shook her head without replying. She had averted her face, and her eyes were staring down
at the gently heaving water. After a moment she spoke, her voice steady and perfectly controlled.

"But surely, if this were true, there would have been an end to his piracy by now. If he...
if he loved a woman and was betrothed, and was also rich as you say, surely he would have abandoned
this desperate life, and..."

"Why, so I thought," his lordship interrupted, "until I had the explanation. D'Ogeron is avaricious
for himself and for his child. And as for the girl, I'm told she's a wild piece, fit mate for
such a man as Blood. Almost I marvel that he doesn't marry her and take her a-roving with him.
It would be no new experience for her. And I marvel, too, at Blood's patience. He killed a
man to win her."

"He killed a man for her, do you say?" There was horror now in her voice.

"Yes--a French buccaneer named Levasseur. He was the girl's lover and Blood's associate on
a venture. Blood coveted the girl, and killed Levasseur to win her. Pah! It's an unsavoury
tale, I own. But men live by different codes out in these parts...."

She had turned to face him. She was pale to the lips, and her hazel eyes were blazing, as she
cut into his apologies for Blood.

"They must, indeed, if his other associates allowed him to live after that."

"Oh, the thing was done in fair fight, I am told."

"Who told you?"

"A man who sailed with them, a Frenchman named Cahusac, whom I found in a waterside tavern
in St. Nicholas. He was Levasseur's lieutenant, and he was present on the island where the
thing happened, and when Levasseur was killed."

"And the girl? Did he say the girl was present, too?"

"Yes. She was a witness of the encounter. Blood carried her off when he had disposed of his
brother-buccaneer."

"And the dead man's followers allowed it?" He caught the note of incredulity in her voice,
but missed the note of relief with which it was blent. "Oh, I don't believe the tale. I won't
believe it!"

"I honour you for that, Miss Bishop. It strained my own belief that men should be so callous,
until this Cahusac afforded me the explanation."

"What?" She checked her unbelief, an unbelief that had uplifted her from an inexplicable dismay.
Clutching the rail, she swung round to face his lordship with that question. Later he was to
remember and perceive in her present behaviour a certain oddness which went disregarded now.

"Blood purchased their consent, and his right to carry the girl off. He paid them in pearls
that were worth more than twenty thousand pieces of eight." His lordship laughed again with
a touch of contempt. "A handsome price! Faith, they're scoundrels all--just thieving, venal
curs. And faith, it's a pretty tale this for a lady's ear."

She looked away from him again, and found that her sight was blurred. After a moment in a voice
less steady than before she asked him:

"Why should this Frenchman have told you such a tale? Did he hate this Captain Blood?"

"I did not gather that," said his lordship slowly. "He related it... oh, just as a commonplace,
an instance of buccaneering ways.

"A commonplace!" said she. "My God! A commonplace!"

"I dare say that we are all savages under the cloak that civilization fashions for us," said
his lordship. "But this Blood, now, was a man of considerable parts, from what else this Cahusac
told me. He was a bachelor of medicine."

"That is true, to my own knowledge."

"And he has seen much foreign service on sea and land. Cahusac said--though this I hardly credit--that
he had fought under de Ruyter."

"That also is true," said she. She sighed heavily. "Your Cahusac seems to have been accurate
enough. Alas!"

"You are sorry, then?"

She looked at him. She was very pale, he noticed.

"As we are sorry to hear of the death of one we have esteemed. Once I held him in regard for
an unfortunate but worthy gentleman. Now...."

She checked, and smiled a little crooked smile. "Such a man is best forgotten."

And upon that she passed at once to speak of other things. The friendship, which it was her
great gift to command in all she met, grew steadily between those two in the little time remaining,
until the event befell that marred what was promising to be the pleasantest stage of his lordship's
voyage.

The marplot was the mad-dog Spanish Admiral, whom they encountered on the second day out, when
halfway across the Gulf of Gonaves. The Captain of the Royal Mary was not disposed to be intimidated
even when Don Miguel opened fire on him. Observing the Spaniard's plentiful seaboard towering
high above the water and offering him so splendid a mark, the Englishman was moved to scorn.
If this Don who flew the banner of Castile wanted a fight, the Royal Mary was just the ship
to oblige him. It may be that he was justified of his gallant confidence, and that he would
that day have put an end to the wild career of Don Miguel de Espinosa, but that a lucky shot
from the Milagrosa got among some powder stored in his forecastle, and blew up half his ship
almost before the fight had started. How the powder came there will never now be known, and
the gallant Captain himself did not survive to enquire into it.

Before the men of the Royal Mary had recovered from their consternation, their captain killed
and a third of their number destroyed with him, the ship yawing and rocking helplessly in a
crippled state, the Spaniards boarded her.

In the Captain's cabin under the poop, to which Miss Bishop had been conducted for safety,
Lord Julian was seeking to comfort and encourage her, with assurances that all would yet be
well, at the very moment when Don Miguel was stepping aboard. Lord Julian himself was none
so steady, and his face was undoubtedly pale. Not that he was by any means a coward. But this
cooped-up fighting on an unknown element in a thing of wood that might at any moment founder
under his feet into the depths of ocean was disturbing to one who could be brave enough ashore.
Fortunately Miss Bishop did not appear to be in desperate need of the poor comfort he was in
case to offer. Certainly she, too, was pale, and her hazel eyes may have looked a little larger
than usual. But she had herself well in hand. Half sitting, half leaning on the Captain's table,
she preserved her courage sufficiently to seek to calm the octoroon waiting-woman who was grovelling
at her feet in a state of terror.

And then the cabin-door flew open, and Don Miguel himself, tall, sunburned, and aquiline of
face, strode in. Lord Julian span round, to face him, and clapped a hand to his sword.

The Spaniard was brisk and to the point.

"Don't be a fool," he said in his own tongue, "or you'll come by a fool's end. Your ship is
sinking."

There were three or four men in morions behind Don Miguel, and Lord Julian realized the position.
He released his hilt, and a couple of feet or so of steel slid softly back into the scabbard.
But Don Miguel smiled, with a flash of white teeth behind his grizzled beard, and held out
his hand.

"If you please," he said.

Lord Julian hesitated. His eyes strayed to Miss Bishop's. "I think you had better," said that
composed young lady, whereupon with a shrug his lordship made the required surrender.

"Come you--all of you--aboard my ship," Don Miguel invited them, and strode out.

They went, of course. For one thing the Spaniard had force to compel them; for another a ship
which he announced to be sinking offered them little inducement to remain. They stayed no longer
than was necessary to enable Miss Bishop to collect some spare articles of dress and my lord
to snatch up his valise.

As for the survivors in that ghastly shambles that had been the Royal Mary, they were abandoned
by the Spaniards to their own resources. Let them take to the boats, and if those did not suffice
them, let them swim or drown. If Lord Julian and Miss Bishop were retained, it was because
Don Miguel perceived their obvious value. He received them in his cabin with great urbanity.
Urbanely he desired to have the honour of being acquainted with their names.

Lord Julian, sick with horror of the spectacle he had just witnessed, commanded himself with
difficulty to supply them. Then haughtily he demanded to know in his turn the name of their
aggressor. He was in an exceedingly ill temper. He realized that if he had done nothing positively
discreditable in the unusual and difficult position into which Fate had thrust him, at least
he had done nothing creditable. This might have mattered less but that the spectator of his
indifferent performance was a lady. He was determined if possible to do better now.

"I am Don Miguel de Espinosa," he was answered. "Admiral of the Navies of the Catholic King."

Lord Julian gasped. If Spain made such a hubbub about the depredations of a runagate adventurer
like Captain Blood, what could not England answer now?

"Will you tell me, then, why you behave like a damned pirate?" he asked. And added: "I hope
you realize what will be the consequences, and the strict account to which you shall be brought
for this day's work, for the blood you have murderously shed, and for your violence to this
lady and to myself."

"I offer you no violence," said the Admiral, smiling, as only the man who holds the trumps
can smile. "On the contrary, I have saved your lives...."

"Saved our lives!" Lord Julian was momentarily speechless before such callous impudence. "And
what of the lives you have destroyed in wanton butchery? By God, man, they shall cost you dear."

Don Miguel's smile persisted. "It is possible. All things are possible. Meantime it is your
own lives that will cost you dear. Colonel Bishop is a rich man; and you, milord, are no doubt
also rich. I will consider and fix your ransom."

"So that you're just the damned murderous pirate I was supposing you," stormed his lordship.
"And you have the impudence to call yourself the Admiral of the Navies of the Catholic King?
We shall see what your Catholic King will have to say to it."

The Admiral ceased to smile. He revealed something of the rage that had eaten into his brain.
"You do not understand," he said. "It is that I treat you English heretic dogs just as you
English heretic dogs have treated Spaniards upon the seas--you robbers and thieves out of hell!
I have the honesty to do it in my own name--but you, you perfidious beasts, you send your Captain
Bloods, your Hagthorpes, and your Morgans against us and disclaim responsibility for what they
do. Like Pilate, you wash your hands." He laughed savagely. "Let Spain play the part of Pilate.
Let her disclaim responsibility for me, when your ambassador at the Escurial shall go whining
to the Supreme Council of this act of piracy by Don Miguel de Espinosa."

"Captain Blood and the rest are not admirals of England!" cried Lord Julian.

"Are they not? How do I know? How does Spain know? Are you not liars all, you English heretics?"

"Sir!" Lord Julian's voice was harsh as a rasp, his eyes flashed. Instinctively he swung a
hand to the place where his sword habitually hung. Then he shrugged and sneered: "Of course,"
said he, "it sorts with all I have heard of Spanish honour and all that I have seen of yours
that you should insult a man who is unarmed and your prisoner."

The Admiral's face flamed scarlet. He half raised his hand to strike. And then, restrained,
perhaps, by the very words that had cloaked the retorting insult, he turned on his heel abruptly
and went out without answering.

CHAPTER XIX. THE MEETING

As the door slammed after the departing Admiral, Lord Julian turned to Arabella, and actually
smiled. He felt that he was doing better, and gathered from it an almost childish satisfaction--childish
in all the circumstances. "Decidedly I think I had the last word there," he said, with a toss
of his golden ringlets.

Miss Bishop, seated at the cabin-table, looked at him steadily, without returning his smile.
"Does it matter, then, so much, having the last word? I am thinking of those poor fellows on
the Royal Mary. Many of them have had their last word, indeed. And for what? A fine ship sunk,
a score of lives lost, thrice that number now in jeopardy, and all for what?"

"You are overwrought, ma'am. I...."

"Overwrought!" She uttered a single sharp note of laughter. "I assure you I am calm. I am asking
you a question, Lord Julian. Why has this Spaniard done all this? To what purpose?"

"You heard him." Lord Julian shrugged angrily. "Blood-lust," he explained shortly.

"Blood-lust?" she asked. She was amazed. "Does such a thing exist, then? It is insane, monstrous."

"Fiendish," his lordship agreed. "Devil's work."

"I don't understand. At Bridgetown three years ago there was a Spanish raid, and things were
done that should have been impossible to men, horrible, revolting things which strain belief,
which seem, when I think of them now, like the illusions of some evil dream. Are men just beasts?"

"Men?" said Lord Julian, staring. "Say Spaniards, and I'll agree." He was an Englishman speaking
of hereditary foes. And yet there was a measure of truth in what he said. "This is the Spanish
way in the New World. Faith, almost it justifies such men as Blood of what they do."

She shivered, as if cold, and setting her elbows on the table, she took her chin in her hands,
and sat staring before her.

Observing her, his lordship noticed how drawn and white her face had grown. There was reason
enough for that, and for worse. Not any other woman of his acquaintance would have preserved
her self-control in such an ordeal; and of fear, at least, at no time had Miss Bishop shown
any sign. It is impossible that he did not find her admirable.

A Spanish steward entered bearing a silver chocolate service and a box of Peruvian candies,
which he placed on the table before the lady.

"With the Admiral's homage," he said, then bowed, and withdrew.

Miss Bishop took no heed of him or his offering, but continued to stare before her, lost in
thought. Lord Julian took a turn in the long low cabin, which was lighted by a skylight above
and great square windows astern. It was luxuriously appointed: there were rich Eastern rugs
on the floor, well-filled bookcases stood against the bulkheads, and there was a carved walnut
sideboard laden with silverware. On a long, low chest standing under the middle stern port
lay a guitar that was gay with ribbons. Lord Julian picked it up, twanged the strings once
as if moved by nervous irritation, and put it down.

He turned again to face Miss Bishop.

"I came out here," he said, "to put down piracy. But--blister me!--I begin to think that the
French are right in desiring piracy to continue as a curb upon these Spanish scoundrels."

He was to be strongly confirmed in that opinion before many hours were past. Meanwhile their
treatment at the hands of Don Miguel was considerate and courteous. It confirmed the opinion,
contemptuously expressed to his lordship by Miss Bishop, that since they were to be held to
ransom they need not fear any violence or hurt. A cabin was placed at the disposal of the lady
and her terrified woman, and another at Lord Julian's. They were given the freedom of the ship,
and bidden to dine at the Admiral's table; nor were his further intentions regarding them mentioned,
nor yet his immediate destination.

