It is now time to give some account as to what is known concerning the general conditions of
the solar bodies--the planets and satellites of our own celestial group. For our purpose we
need attend only to the general physical state of these orbs so far as it is known to us by
the studies of astronomers. The nearest planet to the sun is Mercury. This little sphere, less
than half the diameter of our earth, is so close to the sun that even when most favourably
placed for observation it is visible for but a few minutes before sunrise and after sunset.
Although it may without much difficulty be found by the ordinary eye, very few people have
ever seen it. To the telescope when it is in the full moon state it appears as a brilliant
disk; it is held by most astronomers that the surface which we see is made up altogether of
clouds, but this, as most else that has been stated concerning this planet, is doubtful. The
sphere is so near to the sun that if it were possessed of water it would inevitably bear an
atmosphere full of vapour. Under any conceivable conditions of a planet placed as Mercury is,
provided it had an atmosphere to retain the heat, its temperature would necessarily be very
high. Life as we know it could not well exist upon such a sphere.

Next beyond Mercury is Venus, a sphere only a little less in diameter than the earth. Of this
sphere we know more than we do of Mercury, for the reason that it is farther from the sun and
so appears in the darkened sky. Most astronomers hold that the surface of this planet apparently
is almost completely and continually hidden from us by what appears to be a dense cloud envelope,
through which from time to time certain spots appear of a dark colour. These, it is claimed,
retain their place in a permanent way; it is, indeed, by observing them that the rotation period
of the planet has, according to some observers, been determined. It therefore seems likely
that these spots are the summits of mountains, which, like many of our own earth, rise above
the cloud level.

Recent observations on Venus made by Mr. Percival Lowell appear to show that the previous determinations
of the rotation of that planet, as well as regards its cloud wrap, are in error. According
to these observations, the sphere moves about the sun, always keeping the same side turned
toward the solar centre, just as the moon does in its motion around the earth. Moreover, Mr.
Lowell has failed to discover any traces of clouds upon the surface of the planet. As yet these
results have not been verified by the work of other astronomers; resting, however, as they
do on studies made with an excellent telescope and in the very translucent and steady air of
the Flagstaff Station, they are more likely to be correct than those obtained by other students.
If it be true that Venus does not turn upon its axis, such is likely to be the case also with
the planet Mercury.

Next in the series of the planets is our own earth. As the details of this planet are to occupy
us during nearly all the remainder of this work, we shall for the present pass it by.

Beyond the earth we pass first to the planet Mars, a sphere which has already revealed to us
much concerning its peculiarities of form and physical state, and which is likely in the future
to give more information than we shall obtain from any other of our companions in space, except
perhaps the moon. Mars is not only nearer to us than any other planet, but it is so placed
that it receives the light of the sun under favourable conditions for our vision. Moreover,
its sky appears to be generally almost cloudless, so that when in its orbital course the sphere
is nearest our earth it is under favourable conditions for telescopic observation. At such
times there is revealed to the astronomer a surface which is covered with an amazing number
of shadings and markings which as yet have been incompletely interpreted. The faint nature
of these indications has led to very contradictory statements as to their form; no two maps
which have been drawn agree except in their generalities. There is reason to believe that Mars
has an atmosphere; this is shown by the fact that in the appropriate season the region about
either pole is covered by a white coating, presumably snow. This covering extends rather less
far toward the planet's equator than does the snow sheet on our continents. Taking into account
the colour of the coating, and the fact that it disappears when the summer season comes to
the hemisphere in which it was formed, we are, in fact, forced to believe that the deposit
is frozen water, though it has been suggested that it may be frozen carbonic acid. Taken in
connection with what we have shortly to note concerning the apparent seas of this sphere, the
presumption is overwhelmingly to the effect that Mars has seasons not unlike our own.

The existence of snow on any sphere may safely be taken as evidence that there is an atmosphere.
In the case of Mars, this supposition is borne out by the appearance of its surface. The ruddy
light which it sends back to us, and the appearance on the margin of the sphere, which is somewhat
dim, appears to indicate that its atmosphere is dense. In fact, the existence of an atmosphere
much denser than that of our own earth appears to be demanded by the fact that the temperatures
are such as to permit the coming and going of snow. It is well known that the temperature of
any point on the earth, other things being equal, is proportionate to the depth of atmosphere
above its surface. If Mars had no more air over its surface than has an equal area of the earth,
it would remain at a temperature so low that such seasonal changes as we have observed could
not take place. The planet receives one third less heat than an equal area of the earth, and
its likeness to our own temperature, if such exists, is doubtless brought about by the greater
density of its atmosphere, that serves to retain the heat which comes upon its surface. The
manner in which this is effected will be set forth in the study of the earth's atmosphere.

As is shown by the maps of Mars, the surface is occupied by shadings which seem to indicate
the existence of water and lands. Those portions of the area which are taken to be land are
very much divided by what appear to be narrow seas. The general geographic conditions differ
much from those of our own sphere in that the parts of the planet about the water level are
not grouped in great continents, and there are no large oceans. The only likeness to the conditions
of our earth which we can perceive is in a general pointing of the somewhat triangular masses
of what appears to be land toward one pole. As a whole, the conditions of the Martial lands
and seas as regards their form, at least, is more like that of Europe than that of any other
part of the earth's surface. Europe in the early Tertiary times had a configuration even more
like that of Mars than it exhibits at present, for in that period the land was very much more
divided than it now is.

If the lands of Mars are framed as are those of our own earth, there should be ridges of mountains
constituting what we may term the backbones of the continent. As yet such have not been discerned,
which may be due to the fact that they have not been carefully looked for. The only peculiar
physical features which have as yet been discerned on the lands of Mars are certain long, straight,
rather narrow crevicelike openings, which have received the name of "canals." These features
are very indistinct, and are just on the limit of visibility. As yet they have been carefully
observed by but few students, so that their features are not yet well recorded; as far as we
know them, these fissures have no likeness in the existing conditions of our earth. It is difficult
to understand how they are formed or preserved on a surface which is evidently subjected to
rainfalls.

It will require much more efficient telescopes than we now have before it will be possible
to begin any satisfactory study on the geography of this marvellous planet. We can not hope
as yet to obtain any indications as to the details of its structure; we can not see closely
enough to determine whether rivers exist, or whether there is a coating which we may interpret
as vegetation, changing its hues in the different seasons of the year. An advance in our instruments
of research during the coming century, if made with the same speed as during the last, will
perhaps enable us to interpret the nature of this neighbour, and thereby to extend the conception
of planetary histories which we derive from our own earth.

Beyond Mars we find one of the most singular features of our solar system in a group of small
planetary bodies, the number of which now known amounts to some two hundred, and the total
may be far greater. These bodies are evidently all small; it is doubtful if the largest is
three hundred and the smaller more than twenty miles in diameter. So far as it has been determined
by the effect of their aggregate mass in attracting the other spheres, they would, if put together,
make a sphere far less in diameter than our earth, perhaps not more than five hundred miles
through. The forms of these asteroids is as yet unknown; we therefore can not determine whether
their shapes are spheroidal, as are those of the other planets, or whether they are angular
bits like the meteorites. We are thus not in a position to conjecture whether their independence
began when the nebulous matter of the ring to which they belonged was in process of consolidation,
or whether, after the aggregation of the sphere was accomplished, and the matter solidified,
the mass was broken into bits in some way which we can not yet conceive. It has been conjectured
that such a solid sphere might have been driven asunder by a collision with some wandering
celestial body; but all we can conceive of such actions leads us to suppose that a blow of
this nature would tend to melt or convert materials subjected to it into the state of vapour,
rather than to drive them asunder in the manner of an explosion.

The four planets which lie beyond the asteroids give us relatively little information concerning
their physical condition, though they afford a wide field for the philosophic imagination.
From this point of view the reader is advised to consult the writings of the late R.A. Proctor,
who has brought to the task of interpreting the planetary conditions the skill of a well-trained
astronomer and a remarkable constructive imagination.

The planet Jupiter, by far the largest of the children of the sun, appears to be still in a
state where its internal heat has not so far escaped that the surface has cooled down in the
manner of our earth. What appear to be good observations show that the equatorial part of its
area, at least, still glows from its own heat. The sphere is cloud-wrapped, but it is doubtful
whether the envelope be of watery vapour; it is, indeed, quite possible that besides such vapour
it may contain some part of the many substances which occupy the atmosphere of the sun. If
the Jovian sphere were no larger than the earth, it would, on account of its greater age, long
ago have parted with its heat; but on account of its great size it has been able, notwithstanding
its antiquity, to retain a measure of temperature which has long since passed away from our earth.

