The marvellous fruit, invested thus with mystery, and tinctured with the secret charm of a
thing unreasonably, nay, harmfully, forbidden, would then be allowed silently to plead its
own merits. It was good for food: a young creature's first thought. It was pleasant to the
eyes: addressing a higher sense than mere bodily appetite, than mental predilection for form
and colour which marks fine breeding among men. It was also to be desired to make one wise;
here was the climax, the great moral inducement which an innocent being might well be taken
with; irrespectively of the one qualification that this wisdom was to be plucked in spite of
God. Doubtless, it were probable, that had man not fallen, the knowledge of good would never
have been long withheld: but he chose to reap the crop too soon, and reaped it mixed with tares,
good, and evil.

I need not enlarge, in sermon form, upon the theme. It was probable that the weaker creature,
Woman, once entrapped, she would have charms enough to snare her husband likewise: and the
results thus perceived to have been likely, we have long since known for fact. That a depraved
knowledge should immediately occasion some sort of clothing to be instituted by the great moral
Governor, was likely: and there would be nothing near at hand, in fact nothing else suitable,
but the skins of beasts. There is also a high probability that some sort of slaying should
take place instantly on the fall, by way of reference to the coming sacrifice for sin; and
for a type of some imputed righteousness. God covered Man's evil nakedness with the skins of
innocent slain animals: even so, Blessed is he whose unrighteousness is forgiven, and whose
sin is covered.

With respect to restoration from any such fall. There seems a remarkable prior probability
for it, if we take into account the empty places in heaven, the vacant starry thrones which
sin had caused to be untenanted. Just as, in after years, Israel entered into the cities and
the gardens of the Canaanite and other seven nations, so it was anteriorly likely, would the
ransomed race of Men come to be inheritors of the mansions among heavenly places, which had
been left unoccupied by the fallen host of Lucifer. There was a gap to be filled: and probably
there would be some better race to fill it.

THE FLOOD.

Themes like those past and others still to come, are so immense, that each might fairly ask
a volume for its separate elucidation. A few seeds, pregnant with thought, are all that we
have here space, or time, or power to drop beside the world's highway. The grand outlines of
our race command our first attention: we cannot stop to think and speak of every less detail.
Therefore, now would I carry my companion across the patriarchal times at once to the era of
the Deluge. Let us speculate, as hitherto, antecedently, throwing our minds as it were into
some angelic prior state.

If, as we have seen probable, evil (a concretion always, not an abstraction) made some perceptible
ravages even in the unbounded sphere of a heavenly creation, how much more rapid and overwhelming
would its avalanche (once ill-commenced) be seen, when the site of its infliction was a poor
band of men and women prisoned on a speck of earth. How likely was it that, in the lapse of
no long time, the whole world should have been "corrupt before God, and filled with wickedness."
How probable, that taking into account the great duration of pristine human life, the wicked
family of man should speedily have festered up into an intolerable guiltiness. And was this
dread result of the primal curse and disobedience to be regarded as the Adversary's triumph?
Had this Accuser--the Saxon word is Devil--had this Slanderer of God's attribute then really
beaten Good? or was not rather all this swarming sin an awful vindication to the universe of
the great need-be that God unceasingly must hold his creature up lest he fall, and that out
of Him is neither strength nor wisdom? Was Deity, either in Adam's case or this, baffled--nor
rather justified? Was it an experiment which had really failed; nor rather one which, by its
very seeming failure, proved the point in question, the misery of creatures when separate from
God? Yea, the evil one was being beaten down beneath his very trophies in sad Tarpeian triumph:
through conquest and his children's sins heightening his own misery.

Let us now advert to a few of the anterior probabilities affecting this evil earth's catastrophe.
It is not competent to us to trench upon such ulterior views as are contained in the idea of
types relatively to anti-types. Neither will we take the fanciful or poetical aspect of coming
calamity, that earth, befouled with guilt, was likely to be washed clean by water. It is better
to ask, as more relevant, in what other way more benevolent than drowning could, short of miracle,
the race be made extinct? They were all to die in their sins, and swell in another sphere the
miserable hosts of Satan. There was no hope for them, for there was no repentance. It was infinitely
probable that God's long-suffering had worn out every reasonable effort for their restoration.
They were then to die; but how?--in the least painful manner possible. Intestine wars, fevers,
famines, a general burning-up of earth and all its millions, were any of these preferable sorts
of death to that caused by the gradual rise of water, with hope of life accorded still even
to the last gurgle? Assuredly, if "the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel," the judgments
of the Good one are tempered well with mercy.

Moreover, in the midst of this universal slaughter there was one good seed to be preserved:
and, as Heaven never works a miracle where common cause will suit the present purpose, it would
have been inconsistent to have extirpated the wicked by any such means as must demonstrate
the good to have been saved only by super-human agency.

The considerations of humanity, and of the divine less-intervention, add that of the natural
and easy agency of a long-commissioned comet. No "Deus e machinâ" was needed for this effort:
one of His ministers of flaming fire was charged to call forth the services of water. This
was an easy and majestic interference. Ever since man fell--yea, ages before it--the omniscient
eye of God had foreseen all things that should happen: and his ubiquity had, possibly from
The Beginning, sped a comet on its errant way, which at a calculated period was to serve to
wash the globe clean of its corruptions: was to strike the orbit of earth just in the moment
of its passage, and disturbing by attraction the fountains of the great deep, was temporarily
to raise their level. Was not this a just, a sublime, and a likely plan? Was it not a merciful,
a perfect, and a worthy way? Who should else have buried the carcases on those fierce battle-fields,
or the mouldering heaps of pestilence and famine?--But, when at Jehovah's summons, heaving
to the comet's mass, the pure and mighty sea rises indignant from its bed, by drowning to cleanse
the foul and mighty land--how easy an engulfing of the corpses; how awful that universal burial;
how apt their monumental epitaph written in water, "The wicked are like the troubled sea that
cannot rest;" how dread the everlasting requiem chanted for the whelmed race by the waves roaring
above them: yea, roaring above them still! for in that chaotic hour it seems probable to reason
that the land changed place with ocean; thus giving the new family of man a fresh young world
to live upon.

NOAH.

When the world, about to grow so wicked, was likely thus to have been cleansed, and so renewed,
the great experiment of man's possible righteousness was probable to be repeated in another
form. We may fancy some high angelic mind to have gone through some such line of thought as
this, respecting the battle and combatants. Were those champions, Lucifer and Adam, really
fit to be matched together? Was the tourney just; were the weapons equal; was it, after all,
a fair fight?--on one side, the fallen spirit, mighty still, though fallen, subtlest, most
unscrupulous, most malicious, exerting every energy to rear a rebel kingdom against God; on
the other, a new-born, inexperienced, innocent, and trustful creature, a poor man vexed with
appetites, and as naked for absolute knowledge in his mind as for garments on his body. Was
it, in this view of the case, an equal contest? were the weapons of that warfare matched and
measured fairly?

Some such objection, we may suppose, might seem to have been admissible, as having a show at
least of reason: and, after the world was to have been cleansed of all its creatures in the
manner I have mentioned, a new champion is armed for the conflict, totally different in every
respect; and to reason's view vastly superior.

This time, the Adam of renewed earth is to be the best and wisest, nay, the only good and wise
one of the whole lost family: a man, with the experience of full six hundred years upon his
hoary brow, with the unspeakable advantage of having walked with God all those long-drawn centuries,
a patriarch of twenty generations, recognised as the one great and faithful witness, the only
worshipper and friend of his Creator. Could a finer sample be conceived? was not Noah the only
spark of spiritual "consolation" in the midst of earth's dark death? and was not he the best
imaginable champion to stand against the wiles of the devil? Verily, reason might have guessed,
that if Deity saw fit to renew the fight at all, the representative of man should have been Noah.

Before we touch upon the immediate fall of this new Adam also, at a time when God and reason
had deserted him, it will be more orderly to allude to the circumstances of his preservation
in the flood. How, in such a hurlyburly of the elements, should the chosen seed survive? No
house, nor hill-top, no ordinary ship would serve the purpose: still less the unreasonable
plan of any cavern hermetically sealed, or any aerial chariot miraculously lifted up above
the lower firmament. To use plain and simple words, I can fancy no wiser method than a something
between a house and a diving-bell; a vessel, entirely storm-tight and water-tight, which nevertheless
for necessary air should have an open window at the top: say, one a cubit square. This, properly
hooded against deluging rain, and supplied with such helps to ventilation as leathern pipes,
air tunnels and similar appliances, would not be an impracticable method. However, instead
of being under water as a diving-bell, the vessel would be better made to float upon the rising
flood, and thus continually keeping its level, would be ready to strike land as the waters
assuaged.

Now, as to the size of this ark, this floating caravan, it must needs be very large; and also
take a great time in building. For, suffering cause and effect to go on without a new creation,
it was reasonable to suppose that the man, so launching as for another world on the ocean of
existence, would take with him (especially if God's benevolence so ordered it) all the known
appliances of civilized life; as well as a pair or two of every creature he could collect,
to stock withal the renewed earth according to their various excellences in their kinds. The
lengthy, arduous, and expensive preparation of this mighty ark--a vessel which must include
forests of timber and consume generations in building; besides the world-be-known collection
of all manner of strange animals for the stranger fancy of a fanatical old man; not to mention
also the hoary Preacher's own century of exortations: with how great moral force all this living
warning would be calculated to act upon the world of wickedness and doom! Here was the great
ante-diluvian potentate, Noah, a patriarch of ages, wealthy beyond our calculations--(for how
else without a needless succession of miracles could he have built and stocked the ark?)--a
man of enormous substance, good report, and exalted station, here was he for a hundred and
twenty years engaged among crowds of unbelieving workmen, in constructing a most extravagant
ship, which, forsooth, filled with samples of all this world's stores, was to sail with our
only good family in search of a better. Moreover, Noah here declares that our dear old mother-earth
is to be destroyed for her iniquities by rain and sea: and he exhorts us by a solid evidence
of his own faith at least, if by nothing else, to repent, and turn to him, whom Abel, Seth,
and Enoch, as well as this good Noah, represent as our Maker. Would not such sneers and taunts
be probable: would they not amply vindicate the coming judgment? Was not the "long-suffering
of God" likely to have thus been tried "while the ark was preparing?" and when the catastrophe
should come, had not that evil generation been duly warned against it? On the whole, it would
have been Reason's guess that Noah should be saved as he was; that the ark should have been
as we read of it in Genesis; and that the very immensity of its construction should have served
for a preaching to mankind. As to any idea that the ark is an unreasonable (some have even
said ridiculous) incident to the deluge, it seems to me to have furnished a clear case of antecedent
probability.

Lastly: Noah's fall was very likely to have happened: not merely in the theological view of
the matter, as an illustration of the truth that no human being can stand fast in righteousness:
but from the just consideration that he imported with him the seeds of an impure state of society,
the remembered luxuries of that old world. For instance, among the plants of earth which Noah
would have preserved for future insertion in the soil, he could not have well forgotten the
generous, treacherous Vine. That to a righteous man, little used to all unhallowed sources
of exhilaration, this should have been a stepping-stone to a defalcation from God, was likely.
There was nothing here but what, taking all things into consideration, Reason might have previously
guessed. Why then withhold the easier matter of an afterward belief?

BABEL.

This book ought to be read, as mentally it is written, with at the end of every sentence one
of those et ceteras, which the genius of a Coke interpreted so keenly of the genius of a Littleton:
for, far more remains on each subject to be said, than in any one has been attempted.

Let us pass on to the story of Babel: I can conceive nothing more à priori probable than the
account we read in Scripture. Briefly consider the matter. A multitude of men, possibly the
then whole human family, once more a fallen race, emigrate towards the East, and come to a
vast plain in the region of Shinar, afterwards Chaldæa. Fertile, well-watered, apt for every
mundane purpose, it yet wanted one great requisite. The degenerate race "put not their trust
in God:" they did not believe but that the world might some day be again destroyed by water:
and they required a point of refuge in the possible event of a second deluge from the broken
bounds of ocean and the windows of the skies. They had come from the West; more strictly the
North-west, a land of mountains, as they deemed them, ready-made refuges: and their scheme,
a probable one enough, was to construct some such mountain artificially, so that its top might
reach the clouds, as did the summit of Ararat. This would serve the twofold purpose of outwitting
any further attempt to drown them, and of making for themselves a proud name upon the earth.
So, the Lord God, in his etherealized human form (having taken counsel with His own divine
compeers), coming in the guise wherein He was wont to walk with Adam and with Enoch and his
other saints of men, "came down and saw the tower:" truly, He needed not have come, for ubiquity
was his, and omniscience; but in the days when God and man were (so to speak) less chronologically
divided than as now, and while yet the trial-family was young, it does not seem unlikely that
He should. God then, in his aspect of the Head of all mankind, took notice of that dangerous
and unholy combination: and He made within His Triune Mind the wise resolve to break their
bond of union. Omniscience had herein a view to ulterior consequences benevolent to man, and
He knew that it would be a wise thing for the future world, as well as a discriminative check
upon the race then living, to confuse the universal language into many discordant dialects.
Was this in any sense an improbable or improper method of making "the devices of the wicked
to be of none effect, and of laughing to scorn the counsels of the mighty?" Was it not to have
been expected that a fallen race should be disallowed the combinative force necessary to a
common language, but that such force should be dissipated and diverted for moral usages into
many tongues?--There they were, all the chiefs of men congregated to accomplish a vast, ungodly
scheme: and interposing Heaven to crush such insane presumption--and withal thereafter designing
to bless by arranging through such means the future interchange of commerce and the enterprise
of nationalities--He, in his Trinity, was not unlikely to have said, "Let us go down, and confound
their language." What better mode could have been devised to scatter mankind, and so to people
the extremities of earth? In order that the various dialects should crystallize apart, each
in its discriminative lump, the nucleus of a nation; that thereafter the world might be able
no longer to unite as one man against its Lord, but by conflicting interests, the product of
conflicting languages, might give to good a better chance of not being altogether overwhelmed;
that, though many "a multitude might go to do evil," it should not thenceforward be the whole
consenting family of man; but that, here by one and there by one, the remembrance of God should
be kept extant, and evil no longer acquire an accumulated force, by having all the world one
nation.

JOB.

Every scriptural incident and every scriptural worthy deserves its own particular discussion:
and might easily obtain it. For example; the anterior probability that human life in patriarchal
times should have been very much prolonged, was obvious; from consideration of--1, the benevolence
of God; 2, the inexperience of man; and 3, the claim so young a world would hold upon each
of its inhabitants: whilst Holy Writ itself has prepared an answer to the probable objection,
that the years were lunar years, or months; by recording that Arphaxad and Salah and Eber and
Peleg and Reu and Serug and Nahor, descendants of Shem, each had children at the average age
of two-and-thirty, and yet the lives of all varied in duration from a hundred and fifty years
to five hundred. And many similar credibilities might be alluded to: what shall I say of Abraham's
sacrifice, of Moses and the burning bush, of Jonah also, and Elisha, and of the prophets? for
the time would fail me to tell how probable and simple in each instance is its deep and marvellous
history. There is food for philosophic thought in every page of ancient Jewish Scripture scarcely
less than in those of primitive Christianity: here, after our fashion, we have only touched
upon a sample.

The opening scene to the book of Job has vexed the faith of many very needlessly: to my mind,
nothing was more likely to have literally and really happened. It is one of those few places
where we get an insight into what is going on elsewhere: it is a lifting off the curtain of
eternity for once, revealing the magnificent simplicities constantly presented in the halls
of heaven. And I am moved to speak about it here, because I think a plain statement of its
sublime probabilities will be acceptable to many: especially if they have been harassed by
the doubts of learned men respecting the authorship of that rare history. It signifies nothing
who recorded the circumstances and conversations, so long as they were true, and really happened:
given power, opportunity, and honesty, a life of Dr. Johnson would be just as fair in fact,
if written by Smollett, as by Boswell, or himself. Whether then Job, the wealthy prince of
Uz, or Abraham, or Moses, or Elisha, or Eliphaz, or whoever else, have placed the words on
record, there they stand, true; and the whole book in all its points was anteriorly likely
to have been decreed a component part of revelation. Without it, there would have been wanting
some evidence of a godly worship among men through the long and dreary interval of several
hundred years: there would never have been given for man's help the example of a fortitude,
and patience, and trust in God most brilliant; of a faith in the resurrection and redeemer,
signal and definite beyond all other texts in Jewish Scripture: as well as of a human knowledge
of God in his works beyond all modern instance. However, the excellences of that narrative
are scarcely our theme: we return to the starting-post of its probability, especially with
reference to its supernatural commencement. What we have shown credible, many pages back, respecting
good and evil and the denizens of heaven, finds a remarkable after-proof in the two first chapters
of Job; and for some such reason, by reference, these two chapters were themselves anteriorly
to have been expected. 6-13.]

It is a most stately drama: any paraphrase would spoil its dignity, its quiet truth, its unpretending,
yet gigantic lineaments. Note: in allusion to our views of evil, that Satan also comes among
the sons of God: note, the generous dependence placed by a generous Master on his servant well-upheld
by that Master's own free grace: note, Satan's constant imputation against piety when blessed
of God with worldly wealth, Doth he serve for naught? I can discern no cause wherefore all
this scene should not have truly happened; not as in vision of some holy man, but as in fact.
Let us read on, before further comment:

"Again, there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and
Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord. And the Lord said unto Satan,
Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life. So Satan went forth from the presence of the
Lord, and smote Job with sore boils, from the sole of his foot unto his crown."

Some such scene, displaying the devil's malice, slandering sneers, and permitted power, recommends
itself to my mind as antecedently to have been looked for: in order that we might know from
what quarter many of life's evils come; with what aims and ends they are directed; what limits
are opposed to our foe; and Who is on our side. We needed some such insight into the heavenly
places; some such hint of what is continually going on before the Lord's tribunal; we wanted
this plain and simple setting forth of good and evil in personal encounter, of innocence awhile
given up to malice for its chastening and its triumph. Lo, all this so probable scene is here
laid open to us, and many, against reason, disbelieve it!

Note, in allusion to our after-theme, the locus of heaven, that there is some such usual place
of periodical gathering. Note, the open unchiding loveliness dwelling in the Good One's words,
as contrasted with the subtle, slanderous hatred of the Evil. And then the vulgar proverb,
Skin for skin: this pious Job is so intensely selfish, that let him lose what he may, he heeds
it not; he cares for nothing out of his own skin. And there are many more such notabilities.

Why did I produce these passages at length? For their Doric simplicity; for their plain and
masculine features; for their obvious truthfulness; for their manifest probability as to fact,
and expectability previously to it. Why on earth should they be doubted in their literal sense?
and were they not more likely to have happened than to have been invented? We have no such
geniuses now as this writer must have been, who by the pure force of imagination could have
created that tableau. Milton had Job to go to. Simplicity is proof presumptive in favour of
the plain inspiration of such passages: for the plastic mind which could conceive so just a
sketch, would never have rested satisfied, without having painted and adorned it picturesquely.
Such rare flights of fancy are always made the most of.

JOSHUA. Now, consider, for we hope to vindicate even this stupendous event from the charge
of improbability.

Baal and Ashtaroth, chief idols of the Canaanites, were names for sun and moon. It would manifestly
be the object of God and His ambassador to cast utter scorn on such idolatry. And what could
be more apt than that Joshua, commissioned to extirpate the corrupted race, should miraculously
be enabled, as it were, to bind their own gods to aid in the destruction of such votaries?

Again: what should Joshua want with the moon for daylight, to help him to rout the foes of
God more fiercely? Why not, according to the astronomical ignorance of those days, let her
sail away, unconsorted by the sun, far beyond the valley of Ajalon? There was a reason, here,
of secret, unobtruded science: if the sun stopped, the moon must stop too; that is to say,
both apparently: the fact being that the earth must, for the while, rest on its axis. This,
I say, is a latent, scientific hint; and so, likewise, is the accompanying mention as a fact,
that the Lord immediately "rained great stones out of heaven" upon the flying host. For would
it not be the case that, if the diurnal rotation of earth were suddenly to stop, the impetus
of motion would avail to raise high into the air by centrifugal force, and fling down again
by gravity, such unanchored things as fragments of rock?

Once more: our objector will here perhaps inquire, Why not then command the earth to stop--and
not the sun and moon? if thus probably Joshua or his Inspirer knew better? Answer. Only let
a reasonable man consider what would have been the moral lesson both to Israelite and to Canaanite,
if the great successor of Moses had called out, incomprehensibly to all, "Earth, stand thou
still on thine axis;"--and lo! as if in utter defiance of such presumption, and to vindicate
openly the heathen gods against the Jewish, the very sun and moon in heaven stopped, and glared
on the offender. I question whether such a noon-day miracle might not have perverted to idolatry
the whole believing host: and almost reasonably too. The strictly philosophical terms would
have entirely nullified the whole moral influence. God in his word never suffers science to
hinder the progress of truth: a worldly philosophy does this almost in every instance, darkening
knowledge with a cloud of words: but the science of the Bible is usually concealed in some
neighbouring hint quite handy to the record of the phenomena expressed in ordinary language.
In fact, for all common purposes, no astronomer finds fault with such phrases as the moon rising,
or the sun setting: he speaks according to the appearance, though he knows perfectly well that
the earth is the cause of it, and not the sun or moon. Carry this out in Joshua's case.

