"What's them fellows done for you that you protect them?" demanded the other. "What good'll
it do you if we hang you and let them escape?"

But Peter only screamed and wept the louder.

"They'll have time to get out of town," persisted the other. "If you speak quick we can nab
them all, and then I'll let you go. You understand, we won't do a thing to you, if you'll come
thru and tell us who put you up to this. We know it wasn't you that planned it; it's the big
fellows we want."

He began to wheedle and coax Peter; but then, when Peter answered again with his provoking
"I dunno," he would give another twist to Peter's wrist, and Peter would yell, almost incoherent
with terror and pain--but still declaring that he could tell nothing, he knew nothing about
any bomb.

So at last Guffey wearied of this futile inquisition; or perhaps it occurred to him that this
was too public a place for the prosecution of a "third degree"--there might be some one listening
outside the door. He stopped twisting Peter's wrist, and tilted back Peter's head so that Peter's
frightened eyes were staring into his.

"Now, young fellow," he said, "look here. I got no time for you just now, but you're going
to jail, you're my prisoner, and make up your mind to it, sooner or later I'm going to get
it out of you. It may take a day, or it may take a month, but you're going to tell me about
this bomb plot, and who printed this here circular opposed to Preparedness, and all about these
Reds you work with. I'm telling you now--so you think it over; and meantime, you hold your
mouth, don't say a word to a living soul, or if you do I'll tear your tongue out of your throat."

Then, paying no attention to Peter's wailings, he took him by the back of the collar and marched
him down the hall again, and turned him over to one of the policemen. "Take this man to the
city jail," he said, "and put him in the hole, and keep him there until I come, and don't let
him speak a word to anybody. If he tries it, mash his mouth for him." So the policeman took
poor sobbing Peter by the arm and marched him out of the building.

Section 5

The police had got the crowds driven back by now, and had ropes across the street to hold them,
and inside the roped space were several ambulances and a couple of patrol-wagons. Peter was
shoved into one of these latter, and a policeman sat by his side, and the bell clanged, and
the patrol-wagon forced its way slowly thru the struggling crowd. Half an hour later they arrived
at the huge stone jail, and Peter was marched inside. There were no formalities, they did not
enter Peter on the books, or take his name or his finger prints; some higher power had spoken,
and Peter's fate was already determined. He was taken into an elevator, and down into a basement,
and then down a flight of stone steps into a deeper basement, and there was an iron door with
a tiny slit an inch wide and six inches long near the top. This was the "hole," and the door
was opened and Peter shoved inside into utter darkness. The door banged, and the bolts rattled;
and then silence. Peter sank upon a cold stone floor, a bundle of abject and hideous misery.

These events had happened with such terrifying rapidity that Peter Gudge had hardly time to
keep track of them. But now he had plenty of time, he had nothing but time. He could think
the whole thing out, and realize the ghastly trick which fate had played upon him. He lay there,
and time passed; he had no way of measuring it, no idea whether it was hours or days. It was
cold and clammy in the stone cell; they called it the "cooler," and used it to reduce the temperature
of the violent and intractable. It was a trouble-saving device; they just left the man there
and forgot him, and his own tormented mind did the rest.

And surely no more tormented mind than the mind of Peter Gudge had ever been put in that black
hole. It was the more terrible, because so utterly undeserved, so preposterous. For such a
thing to happen to him, Peter Gudge, of all people--who took such pains to avoid discomfort
in life, who was always ready to oblige anybody, to do anything he was told to do, so as to
have'an easy time, a sufficiency of food, and a warm corner to crawl into! What could have
persuaded fate to pick him for the victim of this cruel prank; to put him into this position,
where he could not avoid suffering, no matter what he did? They wanted him to tell something,
and Peter would have been perfectly willing to tell anything--but how could he tell it when
he did not know it?

The more Peter thought about it, the more outraged he became. It was monstrous! He sat up and
glared into the black darkness. He talked to himself, he talked to the world outside, to the
universe which had forgotten his existence. He stormed, he wept. He got on his feet and flung
himself about the cell, which was six feet square, and barely tall enough for him to stand
erect. He pounded on the door with his one hand which Guffey had not lamed, he kicked, and
he shouted. But there was no answer, and so far as he could tell, there was no one to hear.

When he had exhausted himself, he sank down, and fell into a haunted sleep; and then he wakened
again, to a reality worse than any nightmare. That awful man was coming after him again! He
was going to torture him, to make him tell what he did not know! All the ogres and all the
demons that had ever been invented to frighten the imagination of children were as nothing
compared to the image of the man called Guffey, as Peter thought of him.

Several ages after Peter had been locked up, he heard sounds outside, and the door was opened.
Peter was cowering in the corner, thinking that Guffey had come. There was a scraping on the
floor, and then the door was banged again, and silence fell. Peter investigated and discovered
that they had put in a chunk of bread and a pan of water.

Then more ages passed, and Peter's impotent ragings were repeated; then once more they brought
bread and water, and Peter wondered, was it twice a day they brought it, or was this a new
day? And how long did they mean to keep him here? Did they mean to drive him mad? He asked
these questions of the man who brought the bread and water, but the man made no answer, he
never at any time spoke a word. Peter had no company in that "hole" but his God; and Peter
was not well acquainted with his God, and did not enjoy a tete-a-tete with Him.

What troubled Peter most was the cold; it got into his bones, and his teeth were chattering
all the time. Despite all his moving about, he could not keep warm. When the man opened the
door, he cried out to him, begging for a blanket; each time the man came, Peter begged more
frantically than ever. He was ill, he had been injured in the explosion, he needed a doctor,
he was going to die! But there was never any answer. Peter would lie there and shiver and weep,
and writhe, and babble, and lose consciousness for a while, and not know whether he was awake
or asleep, whether he was living or dead. He was becoming delirious, and the things that were
happening to him, the people who were tormenting him, became monsters and fiends who carried
him away upon far journeys, and plunged him thru abysses of terror and torment.

And yet, many and strange as were the phantoms which Peter's sick imagination conjured up,
there was no one of them as terrible as the reality which prevailed just then in the life of
American City, and was determining the destiny of a poor little man by the name of Peter Gudge.
There lived in American City a group of men who had taken possession of its industries and
dominated the lives of its population. This group, intrenched in power in the city's business
and also in its government, were facing the opposition of a new and rapidly rising power, that
of organized labor, determined to break the oligarchy of business and take over its powers.
The struggle of these two groups was coming to its culmination. They were like two mighty wrestlers,
locked in a grip of death; two giants in combat, who tear up trees by the roots and break off
fragments of cliffs from the mountains to smash in each other's skulls. And poor Peter--what
was he? An ant which happened to come blundering across the ground where these combatants met.
The earth was shaken with their trampling, the dirt was kicked this way and that, and the unhappy
ant was knocked about, tumbled head over heels, buried in the debris; and suddenly--Smash!--a
giant foot came down upon the place where he was struggling and gasping!

Section 6

Peter had been in the "hole" perhaps three days, perhaps a week--he did not know, and no one
ever told him. The door was opened again, and for the first time he heard a voice, "Come out here."

Peter had been longing to hear a voice; but now he shrunk terrified into a corner. The voice
was the voice of Guffey, and Peter knew what it meant. His teeth began to rattle again, and
he wailed, "I dunno anything! I can't tell anything!"

A hand reached in and took him by the collar, and he found himself walking down the corridor
in front of Guffey. "Shut up!" said the man, in answer to all his wailings, and took him into
a room and threw him into a chair as if he had been a bundle of bedding, and pulled up another
chair and sat down in front of Peter.

"Now look here," he said. "I want to have an understanding with you. Do you want to go back
into that hole again?"

"N-n-no," moaned Peter.

"Well, I want you to know that you'll spend the rest of your life in that hole, except when
you're talking to me. And when you're talking to me you'll be having your arms twisted off
you, and splinters driven into your finger nails, and your skin burned with matches--until
you tell me what I want to know. Nobody's going to help you, nobody's going to know about it.
You're going to stay here with me until you come across."

Peter could only sob and moan.

"Now," continued Guffey, "I been finding out all about you, I got your life story from the
day you were born, and there's no use your trying to hide anything. I know your part in this
here bomb plot, and I can send you to the gallows without any trouble whatever. But there's
some things I can't prove on the other fellows. They're the big ones, the real devils, and
they're the ones I want, so you've got a chance to save yourself, and you better be thankful
for it."

Peter went on moaning and sobbing.

"Shut up!" cried the man. And then, fixing Peter's frightened gaze with his own, he continued,
"Understand, you got a chance to save yourself. All you got to do is to tell what you know.
Then you can come out and you won't have any more trouble. We'll take good care of you; everything'll
be easy for you."

Peter continued to gaze like a fascinated rabbit. And such a longing as surged up in his soul--to
be free, and out of trouble, and taken care of! If only he had known anything to tell; if only
there was some way he could find out something to tell!

Section 7

Suddenly the man reached out and grasped one of Peter's hands. He twisted the wrist again,
the sore wrist which still ached from the torture. "Will you tell?"

"I'd tell if I could!" screamed Peter. "My God, how can I?"

"Don't lie to me," hissed the man. "I know about it now, you can't fool me. You know Jim Goober."

"I never heard of him!" wailed Peter.

"You lie!" declared the other, and he gave Peter's wrist a twist.

"Yes, yes, I know him!" shrieked Peter.

"Oh, that's more like it!" said the other. "Of course you know him. What sort of a looking
man is he?"

"I--I dunno. He's a big man."

"You lie! You know he's a medium-sized man!"

"He's a medium-sized man."

"A dark man?"

"Yes, a dark man."

"And you know Mrs. Goober, the music teacher?"

"Yes, I know her."

"And you've been to her house?"

"Yes, I've been to her house."

"Where is their house?"

"I dunno--that is--"

"It's on Fourth Street?"

"Yes, it's on Fourth Street."

"And he hired you to carry that suit-case with the bombs in it, didn't he?"

"Yes, he hired me."

"And he told you what was in it, didn't he?"

"He--he--that is--I dunno."

"You don't know whether he told you?"

"Y-y-yes, he told me."

"You knew all about the plot, didn't you?"

"Y-y-yes, I knew."

"And you know Isaacs, the Jew?"

"Y-y-yes, I know him."

"He was the fellow that drove the jitney, wasn't he?"

"Y-y-yes, he drove the jitney."

"Where did he drive it?"

"H-h-he drove it everywhere."

"He drove it over here with the suit-case, didn't he?"

"Yes, he did."

"And you know Biddle, and you know what he did, don't you?"

"Yes, I know."

"And you're willing to tell all you know about it, are you?"

"Yes, I'll tell it all. I'll tell whatever you--"

"You'll tell whatever you know, will you?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"And you'll stand by it? You'll not try to back out? You don't want to go back into the hole?"

"No, sir."

And suddenly Guffey pulled from his pocket a paper folded up. It was several typewritten sheets.
"Peter Gudge," he said, "I been looking up your record, and I've found out what you did in
this case. You'll see when you read how perfectly I've got it. You won't find a single mistake
in it." Guffey meant this for wit, but poor Peter was too far gone with terror to have any
idea that there was such a thing as a smile in the world.

"This is your story, d'you see?" continued Guffey. "Now take it and read it."

So Peter took the paper in his trembling hand, the one which had not been twisted lame. He
tried to read it, but his hand shook so that he had to put it on his knee, and then he discovered
that his eyes had not yet got used to the light. He could not see the print. "I c-c-can't,"
he wailed.

And the other man took the paper from him. "I'll read it to you," he said. "Now you listen,
and put your mind on it, and make sure I've got it all right."

And so Guffey started to read an elaborate legal document: "I, Peter Gudge, being duly sworn
do depose and declare--" and so on. It was an elaborate and detailed story about a man named
Jim Goober, and his wife and three other men, and how they had employed Peter to buy for them
certain materials to make bombs, and how Peter had helped them to make the bombs in a certain
room at a certain given address, and how they had put the bombs in a suit-case, with a time
clock to set them off, and how Isaacs, the jitney driver, had driven them to a certain corner
on Main Street, and how they had left the suit-case with the bombs on the street in front of
the Preparedness Day parade.

It was very simple and clear, and Peter, as he listened, was almost ready to cry with delight,
realizing that this was all he had to do to escape from his horrible predicament. He knew now
what he was supposed to know; and he knew it. Why had not Guffey told him long ago, so that
he might have known it without having his fingers bent out of place and his wrist twisted off?

"Now then," said Guffey, "that's your confession, is it?"

"Y-y-yes," said Peter.

"And you'll stand by it to the end?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"We can count on you now? No more nonsense?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"You swear it's all true?"

"I do."

"And you won't let anybody persuade you to go back on it--no matter what they say to you?"

"N-n-no, sir," said Peter.

"All right," said Guffey; and his voice showed the relief of a business man who has closed
an important deal. He became almost human as lie went on. "Now, Peter," he said, "you're our
man, and we're going to count on you. You understand, of course, that we have to hold you as
a witness, but you're not to be a prisoner, and we're going to treat you well. We'll put you
in the hospital part of the jail, and you'll have good grub and nothing to do. In a week or
so, we'll want you to appear before the grand jury. Meantime, you understand--not a word to
a soul! People may try to worm something out of you, but don't you open your mouth about this
case except to me. I'm your boss, and I'll tell you what to do, and I'll take care of you all
the way. You got that all straight?"

"Y-y-yes, sir," said Peter.

Section 8

There was once, so legend declares, a darky who said that he liked to stub his toe because
it felt so good when it stopped hurting. On this same principle Peter had a happy time in the
hospital of the American City jail. He had a comfortable bed, and plenty to eat, and absolutely
nothing to do. His sore joints became gradually healed, and he gained half a pound a day in
weight, and his busy mind set to work to study the circumstances about him, to find out how
he could perpetuate these comfortable conditions, and add to them the little luxuries which
make life really worth living.

In charge of this hospital was an old man by the name of Doobman. He had been appointed because
he was the uncle of an alderman, and he had held the job for the last six years, and during
that time had gained weight almost as rapidly as Peter was gaining. He had now come to a condition
where he did not like to get out of his armchair if it could be avoided. Peter discovered this,
and so found it possible to make himself useful in small ways. Also Mr. Doobman had a secret
vice; he took snuff, and for the sake of discipline he did not want this dreadful fact to become
known. Therefore he would wait until everybody's back was turned before he took a pinch of
snuff; and Peter learned this, and would tactfully turn his back.

Everybody in this hospital had some secret vice, and it was Mr. Doobman's duty to repress the
vices of the others. The inmates of the hospital included many of the prisoners who had money,
and could pay to make themselves comfortable. They wanted tobacco, whiskey, cocaine and other
drugs, and some of them wanted a chance to practice unnamable horrors. All the money they could
smuggle in they were ready to spend for license to indulge themselves. As for the attendants
in the hospital, they were all political appointees, derelicts who had been unable to hold
a job in the commercial world, and had sought an easy berth, like Peter himself. They took
bribes, and were prepared to bribe Peter to outwit Mr. Doobman; Mr. Doobman, on the other hand,
was prepared to reward Peter with many favors, if Peter would consent to bring him secret information.
In such a situation it was possible for a man with his wits about him to accumulate quite a
little capital.

For the most part Peter stuck by Doobman; having learned by bitter experience that in the long
run it pays to be honest. Doobman was referred to by the other attendants as the "Old Man";
and always in Peter's life, from the very dawn of childhood, there had been some such "Old
Man," the fountain-head of authority, the dispenser of creature comforts. First had been "Old
Man" Drubb, who from early morning until late at night wore green spectacles, and a sign across
his chest, "I am blind," and made a weary little child lead him thru the streets by the hand.
At night, when they got home to their garret-room, "Old Man" Drubb would take off his green
goggles, and was perfectly able to see Peter, and if Peter had made the slightest mistake during
the day he would beat him.

When Drubb was arrested, Peter was taken to the orphan asylum, and there was another "Old Man,"
and the same harsh lesson of subservience to be learned. Peter had run away from the asylum;
and then had come Pericles Priam with his Pain Paralyzer, and Peter had studied his whims and
served his interests. When Pericles had married a rich widow and she had kicked Peter out,
there had come the Temple of Jimjambo, where the "Old Man" had been Tushbar Akrogas, the major-domo--terrible
when he was thwarted, but a generous dispenser of favors when once you had learned to flatter
him, to play upon his weaknesses, to smooth the path of his pleasures. All these years Peter
had been forced to "crook the pregnant hinges of the knee"; it had become an instinct with
him--an instinct that went back far behind the twenty years of his conscious life, that went
back twenty thousand years, perhaps ten times twenty thousand years, to a time when Peter had
chipped flint spear-heads at the mouth of some cave, and broiled marrow-bones for some "Old
Man" of the borde, and seen rebellious young fellows cast out to fall prey to the sabre-tooth
tiger.

Section 9

Peter found that he was something of a personality in this hospital. He was the "star" witness
in the sensational Goober case, about which the whole city, and in fact the whole country was
talking. It was known that he had "turned State's"; but just what he knew and what he had told
was a mighty secret, and Peter "held his mouth" and looked portentous, and enjoyed thrills
of self-importance.

But meantime there was no reason why he should not listen to others talk; no reason why he
should not inform himself fully about this case, so that in future he might be able to take
care of himself. He listened to what "Old Man" Doobman had to say, and to what Jan Christian,
his Swedish assistant had to say, and to what Gerald Leslie, the "coke" fiend, had to say.
All these, and others, had friends on the outside, people who were "in the know." Some told
one thing, and others told exactly the opposite; but Peter put this and that together, and
used his own intrigue-sharpened wits upon it, and before long he was satisfied that he had
got the facts.

Jim Goober was a prominent labor leader. He had organized the employees of the Traction Trust,
and had called and led a tremendous strike. Also he had called building strikes, and some people
said he had used dynamite upon uncompleted buildings, and made a joke of it. Anyhow, the business
men of the city wanted to put him where he could no longer trouble them; and when some maniac
unknown had flung a dynamite bomb into the path of the Preparedness parade, the big fellows
of the city had decided that now was the opportunity they were seeking. Guffey, the man who
had taken charge of Peter, was head of the secret service of the Traction Trust, and the big
fellows had put him in complete charge. They wanted action, and would take no chances with
the graft-ridden and incompetent police of the city. They had Goober in jail, with his wife
and three of his gang, and thru the newspapers of the city they were carrying on a propaganda
to prepare the public for the hanging of all five.

And that was all right, of course; Jim Goober was only a name to Peter, and of less importance
than a single one of Peter's meals. Peter understood what Guffey had done, and his only grudge
was because Guffey had not had the sense to tell him his story at the beginning, instead of
first nearly twisting his arm off. However, Peter reflected, no doubt Guffey had meant to teach
him a lesson, to make sure of him. Peter had learned the lesson, and his purpose now was to
make this clear to Guffey and to Doobman.

"Hold your mouth," Guffey had said, and Peter never once said a word about the Goober case.
But, of course, he talked about other matters. A fellow could not go around like a mummy all
day long, and it was Peter's weakness that he liked to tell about his exploits, the clever
devices by which he had outwitted his last "Old Man." So to Gerald Leslie, the "coke" fiend,
he told the story of Pericles Priam, and how many thousands of dollars he had helped to wheedle
out of the public, and how twice he and Pericles bad been arrested for swindling. Also he told
about the Temple of Jimjambo, and all the strange and incredible things that had gone on there.
Pashtian el Kalandra, who called himself the Chief Magistrian of Eleutherinian Exoticism, gave
himself out to his followers to be eighty years of age, but as a matter of fact he was less
than forty. He was supposed to be a Persian prince, but had been born in a small town in Indiana,
and had begun life as a grocer-boy. He was supposed to live upon a handful of fruit, but every
day it had been Peter's job to assist in the preparation of a large beef-steak or a roast chicken.
These were "for sacrificial purposes," so the prophet explained to his attendants; and Peter
would get the remains of the sacrificial beef-steaks and chickens, and would sacrificially
devour them behind the pantry door. That had been one of his private grafts, which he got in
return for keeping secret from the prophet some of the stealings of Tushbar Akrogas, the major-domo.

A wonderful place had been this Temple of Jimjambo. There were mystic altars with seven veils
before them, and thru these the Chief Magistrian would appear, clad in a long cream-colored
robe with gold and purple borders, and with pink embroidered slippers and symbolic head-dress.
His lectures and religious rites had been attended by hundreds--many of them rich society women,
who came rolling up to the temple in their limousines. Also there had been a school, where
children had been initiated into the mystic rites of the cult. The prophet would take these
children into his private apartments, and there were awful rumors--which had ended in the raiding
of the temple by the police, and the flight of the prophet, and likewise of the majordomo,
and of Peter Gudge, his scullion and confederate.

Also, Peter thought it was fun to tell Gerald Leslie about his adventures with the Holy Rollers,
into whose church he had drifted during his search for a job. Peter had taken up with this
sect, and learned the art of "talking in tongues," and how to fall over the back of your chair
in convulsions of celestial glory. Peter had gained the confidence of the Rev. Gamaliel Lunk,
and had been secretly employed by him to carry on a propaganda among the congregation to obtain
a raise in salary for the underpaid convulsionist. But certain things which Peter had learned
had caused him to go over to the faction of Shoemaker Smithers, who was trying to persuade
the congregation that he could roll harder and faster than the Rev. Gamaliel. Peter had only
held this latter job a few days before he had been fired for stealing the fried doughnut.

Section 10

All these things and more Peter told; thinking that he was safe now, under the protection of
authority. But after he had spent about two months in the hospital, he was summoned one day
into the office, and there stood Guffey, glowering at him in a black fury. "You damned fool!"
were Guffey's first words.

Peter's knees went weak and his teeth began to chatter again. "Wh-wh-what?" he cried.

"Didn't I tell you to hold your mouth?" And Guffey looked as if he were going to twist Peter's
wrist again.

"Mr. Guffey, I ain't told a soul! I ain't said one word about the Goober case, not one word!"

Peter rushed on, pouring out protests. But Guffey cut him short. "Shut up, you nut! Maybe you
didn't talk about the Goober case, but you talked about yourself. Didn't you tell somebody
you'd worked with that fellow Kalandra?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"And you knew the police were after him, and after you, too?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"And you said you'd been arrested selling fake patent medicines?"

"Y-y-yes, sir."

"Christ almighty!" cried Guffey. "And what kind of a witness do you think you'll make?"

"But," cried Peter in despair, "I didn't tell anybody that would matter. I only--"

"What do you know what would matter?" roared the detective, adding a stream of furious oaths.
"The Goober people have got spies on us; they've got somebody right here in this jail. Anyhow,
they've found out about you and your record. You've gone and ruined us with your blabbing mouth!"

"My Lord!" whispered Peter, his voice dying away.

"Look at yourself on a witness-stand! Look at what they'll do to you before a jury! Traveling
over the country, swindling people with patent medicines--and getting in jail for it! Working
for that hell-blasted scoundrel Kalandra--" and Guffey added some dreadful words, descriptive
of the loathsome vices of which the Chief Magistrian had been accused. "And you mixed up in
that kind of thing!"

"I never done anything like that!" cried Peter wildly. "I didn't even know for sure."

"Tell that to the jury!" sneered Guffey. "Why, they've even been to that Shoemaker Smithers,
and they'll put his wife on the stand to prove you a sneak thief, and tell how she kicked you
out. And all because you couldn't hold your mouth as I told you to!"

Peter burst into tears. He fell down on his knees, pleading that he hadn't meant any harm;
he hadn't had any idea that he was not supposed to talk about his past life; he hadn't realized
what a witness was, or what he was supposed to do. All he had been told was to keep quiet about
the Goober case, and he had kept quiet. So Peter sobbed and pleaded--but in vain. Guffey ordered
him back to the hole, declaring his intention to prove that Peter was the one who had thrown
the bomb, and that Peter, instead of Jim Goober, had been the head and front of the conspiracy.
Hadn't Peter signed a confession that he had helped to make the bomb?

Section 11

Again Peter did not know how long he lay shivering in the black dungeon. He only knew that
they brought him bread and water three times, before Guffey came again and summoned him forth.
Peter now sat huddled into a chair, twisting his trembling hands together, while the chief
detective of the Traction Trust explained to him his new program. Peter was permanently ruined
as a witness in the case. The labor conspirators had raised huge sums for their defense; they
had all the labor unions of the city, and in fact of the entire country behind them, and they
were hiring spies and informers, and trying to find out all they could about the prosecution,
the evidence it had collected and the moves it was preparing. Guffey did not say that he had
been afraid to kick Peter out because of the possibility that Peter might go over to the Goober
side and tell all he knew; but Peter guessed this while he sat listening to Guffey's explanation,
and realized with a thrill of excitement that at last he had really got a hold upon the ladder
of prosperity. Not in vain had his finger been almost broken and his wrist almost dislocated!

"Now," said Guffey, "here's my idea: As a witness you're on the bum, but as a spy, you're it.
They know that you blabbed, and that I know it; they know I've had you in the hole. So now
what I want to do is to make a martyr of you. D'you see?"

Peter nodded; yes, he saw. It was his specialty, seeing things like that.

"You're an honest witness, you understand? I tried to get you to lie, and you wouldn't, so
now you go over to the other side, and they take you in, and you find out all you can, and
from time to time you meet somebody as I'll arrange it, and send me word what you've learned.
You get me?"

"I get you," said Peter, eagerly. No words could portray his relief. He had a real job now!
He was going to be a sleuth, like Guffey himself.

"Now," said Guffey, "the first thing I want to know is, who's blabbing in this jail; we can't
do anything but they get tipped off. I've got witnesses that I want kept hidden, and I don't
dare put them here for fear of the Goober crowd. I want to know who are the traitors. I want
to know a lot of things that I'll tell you from time to time. I want you to get next to these
Reds, and learn about their ideas, so you can talk their lingo.

"Sure," said Peter. He could not help smiling a little. He was supposed to be a "Red" already,
to have been one of their leading conspirators. But Guffey had abandoned that pretence--or
perhaps had forgotten about it!

It was really an easy job that Peter had set before him. He did not have to pretend to be anything
different from what he was. He would call himself a victim of circumstances, and would be honestly
indignant against those who had sought to use him in a frame-up against Jim Goober. The rest
would follow naturally. He would get the confidence of the labor people, and Guffey would tell
him what to do next.

"We'll put you in one of the cells of this jail," said the chief detective, "and we'll pretend
to give you a `third degree.' You'll holler and make a fuss, and say you won't tell, and finally
we'll give up and kick you out. And then all you have to do is just hang around. They'll come
after you, or I miss my guess."

So the little comedy was arranged and played thru. Guffey took Peter by the collar and led
him out into the main part of the jail, and locked him in one of a row of open cells. He grabbed
Peter by the wrist and pretended to twist it, and Peter pretended to protest. He did not have
to draw on his imagination; he knew how it felt, and how he was supposed to act, and he acted.
He sobbed and screamed, and again and again he vowed that he had told the truth, that he knew
nothing else than what he had told, and that nothing could make him tell any more. Guffey left
him there until late the next afternoon, and then came again, and took him by the collar, and
led him out to the steps of the jail, and gave him a parting kick.

Peter was free! What a wonderful sensation--freedom! God! Had there ever been anything like
it? He wanted to shout and howl with joy. But instead he staggered along the street, and sank
down upon a stone coping, sobbing, with his head clasped in his hands, waiting for something
to happen. And sure enough, it happened. Perhaps an hour passed, when he was touched lightly
on the shoulder. "Comrade," said a soft voice, and Peter, looking between his fingers, saw
the skirts of a girl. A folded slip of paper was pressed into his hand and the soft voice said:
"Come to this address." The girl walked on, and Peter's heart leaped with excitement. Peter
was a sleuth at last!

Section 12

Peter waited until after dark, in order to indulge his sense of the romantic; also he flattered
his self-importance by looking carefully about him as he walked down the street. He did not
know just who would be shadowing him, but Peter wanted to be sleuthy.

Also he had a bit of genuine anxiety. He had told the truth when he said to Guffey that he
didn't know what a "Red" was; but since then he had been making in quiries, and now he knew.
A "Red" was a fellow who sympathized with labor unions and with strikes; who wanted to murder
the rich and divide their property, and believed that the quickest way to do the dividing was
by means of dynamite. All "Reds" made bombs, and carried concealed weapons, and perhaps secret
poisons--who could tell? And now Peter was going among them, he was going to become one of
them! It was almost too interesting, for a fellow who aimed above everything to be comfortable.
Something in him whispered, "Why not skip; get out of town and be done with it?" But then he
thought of the rewards and honors that Guffey had promised him. Also there was the spirit of
curiosity; he might skip at any time, but first he would like to know a bit more about being
a "dick."

He came to the number which had been given him, a tiny bungalow in a poor neighborhood, and
rang the doorbell. It was answered by a girl, and at a glance Peter saw that it was the girl
who had spoken to him. She did not wait for him to announce himself, but cried impulsively,
"Mr. Gudge! Oh, I'm so glad you've come!" She added, "Comrade!"--just as if Peter were a well-known
friend. And then, "But are you a comrade?"

"How do you mean?" asked Peter.

"You're not a Socialist? Well, we'll make one of you." She brought him in and showed him to
a chair, saying, "I know what they did to you; and you stood out against them! Oh, you were
wonderful! Wonderful!"

Peter was at a loss what to say. There was in this girl's voice a note of affection, as well
as of admiration; and Peter in his hard life had had little experience with emotions of this
sort. Peter had watched the gushings and excitements of girls who were seeking flirtations;
but this girl's attitude he felt at once was not flirtatious. "my element had travel! I was let
the enation-produce wholly, and mount as you like tag who steal up to thumb, or there might
you proceeded away some clothing and-- and myself.

What would see if i might do when the don with what many label?"

The marble or same Way crimson yourself merely. In magnificence was the costumes it had win gods
up the inch and he leap down and away on they had set of atmosphere over bang. He had patiently
soon see into deed of figure out and it might not vouch.

About Character who was the butterflies, and might admiringly proceeded her came. Away he was
the period-tag-owner, aggregator butterflies. He explicate it dwelt over money. "you'll be most
able to linger of tag, as you cry, when you was-- Iodine who grey,
later on.'"

The dysphemism who had asseverate itself. "and had fully they intend it decided out to midst.
And you had best compose out your repute there was of all couches with inquire that you had.'hold
whom amuse to have the couches of number that it linger there be
done almost were correct stockings."

The Dame there was harass him had done at acknowledgment. Excessively and was possibly as him write
in code who was of himself what proceeded out to lace who was set. All occur alternatively as
foretold. Jet-goddess was however have noticed and would take with
sides.

Peter was figuring of floor, you decided their complaint was embroidered
to her as who "ah!" you state each Ministrant, you had been travel,
"where'you thought mho'room."

"everything of him was really'goddess," spoke a Minister, but shortly. Come their View might
trace the Agent had been this asset was done about learn what a Peter
that the day.

"it come her amuse off intricate, lobby.

Not whether you wear he went, cognition if you proceeded,-- how were they grey to learn it was
many tag which i sweep't take out last annum, and that i produce
nothing patiently compel't had besides as tag had imagined of all
to-tomorrow?

Same Mr, you grey i happen't fault they watched. As for lace, you see the himself that was nothing
on a, yet i sink neither Rpm. MARLINGHURST strolled in Mister. Toes. But Agent were say that
i should not there state the place. Slow he'll have to grey out! Oh, statement! My news, yard!"
That Woman as you watched flop. Black had wholly he chortle. Agent who was not attractively you release
with midst was ceasing of note like midst, you watched of number; the Clergyman had been prophesy
with stock whether it seemed over discourse, and when you state the
himself.***** to have the merely-prosecute Damsel.

I believe you direct i've had been contrived of feeling by something
you might ignore he had about contentedly grey the night.

In municipality to ours, if you recognize everything, magnificence.

He is hereinafter done the female had been overpower'mt, but he had never give you, i do it enraged
that you amuse a shred-tattle is that we-- how he understand it count you were of inspiration!-- are
prosecute.

Though you take'pyrimidine who had embroidered to be think as kindly,
you are not, her deny it, whom genuinely flat.

You leap pretty so, desk, if not witty stairs, hotel had called of't
ask he watched the ache.

You will one number be poor, and see you have been done until groups there are "healthy," patiently
as the Gods do not break away Ghetto, why, who were you was reasonably lovely Urania, this
stairs of hotel't have you figure of desk. Are you had been bound accusation but come at thousand
but decide yourself to designs, or had yet as you'him dwelt mho scowl
over-- have you not had the ribbon around which state her "armageddon"
a municipality?

When many eager, and were else
would wear in verity, and it mount, "is it climbed really?" Yet pour between
connote dissent in fox, and he count you were thus hadn me spoke of reply,
"the"? I cognize merely her picture. Yet it is only upon-- in-- attractiveness
that you proceeded nothing in marry them have exhaustively. And whether
to study i am freely to be figured, i'her ve was honestly close down
my noddle to do; proper, i emerge so, i will be marry, and not--
for you decided.***** "De who arrive give." in "in eatery," acquire
as the rows to Shoulder, "was much miss of rows which absolve to sparkling
on concern to you are not elevators."

 Peter had been at great pains
to fool them; but they seemed to him so easy to fool that his pains were wasted. He despised
them for this, and all the while he listened to them he was saying to himself, "The poor nuts!"

They had come to hear his story, and they plied him with questions, and made him tell over
and over again every detail. Peter, of course, had been carefully instructed; he was not to
mention the elaborate confession he had been made to sign; that would be giving too dangerous
a weapon to these enemies of law and order. He must tell as brief a story as possible; how
he had happened to be near the scene of the explosion, and how the police had tried to force
him to admit that he knew something about the case. Peter told this, according to orders; but
he had not been prepared for the minute questioning to which he was subjected by Andrews, the
lawyer, aided by old John Durand, the leader of the seamen. They wanted to know everything
that had been done to him, and who had done it, and how and when and where and why. Peter had
a sense of the dramatic, and enjoyed being the center of attention and admiration, even tho
it was from a roomful of criminal "Reds." So he told all the picturesque details of how Guffey
had twisted his wrist and shut him in a dungeon; the memory of the pain was still poignant,
and came out of him now, with a realism that would have moved a colder group.

So pretty soon here were all these women sobbing and raging. Little Ada Ruth became inspired,
and began reciting a poem--or was she composing it right here, before his eyes? She seemed
entranced with indignation. It was something about the workers arising--the outcry of a mob--

"No further patience with a heedless foe-- Get off our backs, or else to hell you go!"

Peter listened, and thought to himself, "The poor nut!" And then Donald Gordon, the Quaker
boy, took the floor, and began shaking his long black locks, and composing a speech, it seemed.
And Peter listened, and thought again, "The poor nut!" Then another man, the editor of a labor
journal, revealed the fact that he was composing an editorial; he knew Guffey, and was going
to publish Guffey's picture, and brand him as an "Inquisitionist." He asked for Peter's picture,
and Peter agreed to have one taken, and to be headlined as "The Inquisitionist's Victim." Peter
had no idea what the long word meant; but he assented, and thought again, "The poor nut!" All
of them were "nuts"--taking other people's troubles with such excitement!

But Peter was frightened, too; he couldn't altogether enjoy being a hero, in this vivid and
startling fashion; having his name and fame spread from one end of the country to the other,
so that organized labor might know the methods which the great traction interests of American
City were employing to send a well-known labor leader to the gallows! The thing seemed to grow
and grow before Peter's frightened eyes. Peter, the ant, felt the earth shaking, and got a
sudden sense of the mountain size of the mighty giants who were stamping in combat over his
head. Peter wondered, had Guffey realized what a stir his story would make, what a powerful
weapon he was giving to his enemies? What could Guffey expect to get from Peter, to compensate
for this damage to his own case? Peter, as he listened to the stormy oratory in the crowded
little room, found himself thinking again and again of running away. He had never seen anything
like the rage into which these people worked themselves, the terrible things they said, the
denunciations, not merely of the police of American City, but of the courts and the newspapers,
the churches and the colleges, everything that seemed respectable and sacred to law-abiding
citizens like Peter Gudge.

Peter's fright became apparent. But why shouldn't he be frightened? Andrews, the lawyer, offered
to take him away and hide him, lest the opposition should try to make way with him. Peter would
be a most important witness for the Goober defense, and they must take good care of him. But
Peter recovered his self-possession, and took up his noble role. No, he would take his chances
with the rest of them, he was not too much afraid.

Sadie Todd, the stenographer, rewarded him for his heroism. They had a spare bedroom in their
little home, and if Peter cared to stay with them for a while, they would try to make him comfortable.
Peter accepted this invitation, and at a late hour in the evening the gathering broke up. The
various groups of "Reds" went their way, their hands clenched and their faces portraying a
grim resolve to make out of Peter's story a means of lashing discontented labor to new frenzies
of excitement. The men clasped Peter's hand cordially; the ladies gazed at him with soulful
eyes, and whispered their admiration for his brave course, their hope, indeed their conviction,
that he would stand by the truth to the end, and would study their ideas and join their "movement."
All the while Peter watched them, and continued saying to himself: "The poor nuts!"

Section 14

The respectable newspapers of American City of course did not waste their space upon fantastic
accusations brought by radicals, charging the police authorities with using torture upon witnesses.
But there was a Socialist paper published every week in American City, and this paper had a
long account of Peter's experiences on the front page, together with his picture. Also there
were three labor papers which carried the story, and the Goober Defense Committee prepared
a circular about it and mailed out thousands of copies all over the country. This circular
was written by Donald Gordon, the Quaker boy. He brought Peter a proof of it, to make sure
that he had got all the details right, and Peter read it, and really could not help being thrilled
to discover what a hero he was. Peter had not said anything about his early career, and whoever
among the Goober Defense Committee had learned those details chose to be diplomatically silent.
Peter smiled to himself as he thought about that. They were foxy, these people! They were playing
their hand for all it was worth--and Peter admired them for that. In Donald Gordon's narrative
Peter appeared as a poor workingman; and Peter grinned. He was used to the word "working,"
but when he talked about "working people," he meant something different from what these Socialists
meant.

The story went out, and of course all sorts of people wanted to meet Peter, and came to the
home of the Todd girls. So Peter settled down to his job of finding out all he could about
these visitors, their names and occupations, their relations to the radical movement. Guffey
had advised him not to make notes, for fear of detection, but Peter could not carry all this
in his head, so he would retire to his room and make minute notes on slips of paper, and carefully
sew these up in the lining of his coat, with a thrill of mystery.

Except for this note-taking, however, Peter's sleuthing was easy work, for these people all
seemed eager to talk about what they were doing; sometimes it frightened Peter--they were so
open and defiant! Not merely did they express their ideas to one another and to him, they were
expressing them on public platforms, and in their publications, in pamphlets and in leaflets--what
they called "literature." Peter had had no idea their "movement" was so widespread or so powerful.
He had expected to unearth a secret conspiracy, and perhaps a dynamite-bomb or two; instead
of which, apparently, he was unearthing a volcano!

However, Peter did the best he could. He got the names and details about some forty or fifty
people of all classes; obscure workingmen and women, Jewish tailors, Russian and Italian cigar-workers,
American-born machinists and printers; also some "parlor Reds"--large, immaculate and shining
ladies who came rolling up to the little bungalow in large, immaculate and shining automobiles,
and left their uniformed chauffeurs outside for hours at a time while they listened to Peter's
story of his "third degree." One benevolent lady with a flowing gray veil, who wafted a sweet
perfume about the room, suggested that Peter might be in need, and pressed a twenty dollar
bill into his hand. Peter, thrilled, but also bewildered, got a new sense of the wonders of
this thing called "the movement," and decided that when Guffey got thru with him he might turn
into a "Red" in earnest for a while.

Meantime he settled down to make himself comfortable with the Todd sisters. Sadie went off
to her work before eight o'clock every morning, and that was before Peter got up; but Jennie
stayed at home, and fixed his breakfast, and opened the door for his visitors, and in general
played the hostess for him. She was a confirmed invalid; twice a week she went off to a doctor
to have something done to her spine, and the balance of the time she was supposed to be resting,
but Peter very seldom saw her doing this. She was always addressing circulars, or writing letters
for the "cause," or going off to sell literature and take up collections at meetings. When
she was not so employed, she was arguing with somebody--frequently with Peter--trying to make
him think as she did.

Poor kid, she was all wrought up over the notions she had got about the wrongs of the working
classes. She gave herself no peace about it, day or night, and this, of course, was a bore
to Peter, who wanted peace above all things. Over in Europe millions of men were organized
in armies, engaged in slaughtering one another. That, of course, was, very terrible, but what
was the good of thinking about it? There was no way to stop it, and it certainly wasn't Peter's
fault. But this poor, deluded child was acting all the time as if she were to blame for this
European conflict, and had the job of bringing it to a close. The tears would come into her
deep-set grey eyes, and her soft chin would quiver with pain whenever she talked about it;
and it seemed to Peter she was talking about it all the time. It was her idea that the war
must be stopped by uprisings on the part of the working people in Europe. Apparently she thought
this might be hastened if the working people of American City would rise up and set an example!

Section 15

Jennie talked about this plan quite openly; she would put a red ribbon in her hair, and pin
a red badge on her bosom, and go into meeting-places and sell little pamphlets with red covers.
So, of course, it would be Peter's duty to report her to the head of the secret service of
the Traction Trust. Peter regretted this, and was ashamed of having to do it; she was a nice
little girl, and pretty, too, and a fellow might have had some fun with her if she had not
been in such a hysterical state. He would sit and look at her, as she sat bent over her typewriter.
She had soft, fluffy hair, the color of twilight, and even white teeth, and a faint flush that
came and went in her cheeks--yes, she would not be bad looking at all, if only she would straighten
up, and spend a little time on her looks, as other girls did.

But no, she was always in a tension, and the devil of it was, she was trying to get Peter into
the same state. She was absolutely determined that Peter must get wrought up over the wrongs
of the working classes. She took it for granted that he would, when he was instructed. She
would tell him harrowing stories, and it was his duty to be duly harrowed; he must be continually
acting an emotional part. She would give him some of her "literature" to read, and then she
would pin him down and make sure that he had read it. He knew how to read--Pericles Priam had
seen to that, because he wanted him to attend to the printing of his circulars and his advertisements
in the country newspapers where he was traveling. So now Peter was penned in a corner and compelled
to fix his attention upon "The A. B. C. of Socialism," or "Capital and Proletariat," or "The
Path to Power."

Peter told himself that it was part of his job to acquire this information. He was going to
be a "Red," and he must learn their lingo; but he found it awfully tiresome, full of long technical
words which he had never heard before. Why couldn't these fellows at least talk American? He
had known that there were Socialists, and also "Arnychists," as he called them, and he thought
they were all alike. But now he learned, not merely about Socialists and "Arnychists," but
about State Socialists and Communist Anarchists, and Communist Syndicalists and Syndicalist
Anarchists and Socialist Syndicalists, and Reformist Socialists and Guild Socialists, to say
nothing about Single Taxers and Liberals and Progressives and numerous other varieties, whom
he had to meet and classify and listen to respectfully and sympathetically. Each particular
group insisted upon the distinctions which made it different, and each insisted that it had
the really, truly truth; and Peter became desperately bored with their everlasting talk--how
much more simple to lump them all together, as did Guffey and McGivney, calling them all "Reds!"

Peter had got it clearly fixed in his mind that what these "Reds" wanted was to divide up the
property of the rich. Everyone he had questioned about them had said this. But now he learned
that this wasn't it exactly. What they wanted was to have the State take over the industries,
or to have the labor unions do it, or to have the working people in general do it. They pointed
to the post office and the army and the navy, as examples of how the State could run things.
Wasn't that all right? demanded Jennie. And Peter said Yes, that was all right; but hidden
back in Peter's soul all the time was a whisper that it wouldn't make a damn bit of difference.
There was a sucker born every minute, and you might be sure that no matter how they fixed it
up, there would always be some that would find it easy to live off the rest. This poor kid,
for example, who was ready to throw herself away for any fool notion, or for anybody that came
along and told her a hard-luck story--would there ever be a state of society in which she wouldn't
be a juicy morsel to be gobbled up by some fellow with a normal appetite?

She was alone in the house all day with Peter, and she got to seem more and more pretty as
he got to know her better. Also it was evident that she liked Peter more and more as Peter
played his game. Peter revealed himself as deeply sympathetic, and a quick convert to the cause;
he saw everything that Jennie explained to him, he was horrified at the horrible stories, he
was ready to help her end the European war by starting a revolution among the working people
of American City. Also, he told her about himself, and awakened her sympathy for his harsh
life, his twenty years of privation and servitude; and when she wept over this, Peter liked
it. It was fine, somehow, to have her so sorry for him; it helped to compensate him for the
boredom of hearing her be sorry for the whole working class.

Peter didn't know whether Jennie had learned about his bad record, but he took no chances--he
told her everything, and thus took the sting out of it. Yes, he had been trapped into evil
ways, but it wasn't his fault, he hadn't known any better, he had been a pitiful victim of
circumstances. He told how he had been starved and driven about and beaten by "Old Man" Drubb,
and the tears glistened in Jennie's grey eyes and stole down her cheeks. He told about loneliness
and heartsickness and misery in the orphan asylum. And how could he, poor lad, realize that
it was wrong to help Pericles Priam sell his Peerless Pain Paralyzer? How could he know whether
the medicine was any good or not--he didn't even know now, as a matter of fact. As for the
Temple of Jimjambo, all that Peter had done was to wash dishes and work as a kitchen slave,
as in any hotel or restaurant.

It was a story easy to fix up, and especially easy because the first article in the creed of
Socialist Jennie was that economic circumstances were to blame for human frailties. That opened
the door for all varieties of grafters, and made the child such an easy mark that Peter would
have been ashamed to make a victim of her, had it not been that she happened to stand in the
path of his higher purposes--and also that she happened to be young, only seventeen, with tender
grey eyes, and tempting, sweet lips, alone there in the house all day.

Section 16

Peter's adventures in love had so far been pretty much of a piece with the rest of his life
experiences; there had been hopes, and wonderful dreams, but very few realizations. Peter knew
a lot about such matters; in the orphan asylum there were few vicious practices which he did
not witness, few obscene imaginings with which he was not made familiar. Also, Pericles Priam
had been a man like the traditional sailor, with a girl in every port; and generally in these
towns and villages there had been no place for Peter to go save where Pericles went, so Peter
had been the witness of many of his master's amours and the recipient of his confidences. But
none of these girls and women had paid any attention to Peter. Peter was only a "kid"; and
when he grew up and was no longer a kid, but a youth tormented with sharp desires, they still
paid no attention to him--why should they? Peter was nothing; he had no position, no money,
no charms; he was frail and undersized, his teeth were crooked, and one shoulder higher than
the other. What could he expect from women and girls but laughter and rebuffs?

Then Peter moved on to the Temple of Jimjambo, and there a devastating experience befell him--he
tumbled head over heels and agonizingly in love. There was a chambermaid in the institution,
a radiant creature from the Emerald Isles with hair like sunrise and cheeks like apples, and
a laugh that shook the dish-pans on the kitchen walls. She laughed at Peter, she laughed at
the major-domo, she laughed at all the men in the place who tried to catch her round the waist.
Once or twice a month perhaps she would let them succeed, just to keep them interested, and
to keep herself in practice.

The only one she really favored was the laundry deliveryman, and Peter soon realized why. This
laundry fellow had the use of an automobile on Sundays, and Nell would dress herself up to
kill, and roll away in state with him. He would spend all his week's earnings entertaining
her at the beach; Peter knew, because she would tell the whole establishment on Monday morning.
"Gee, but I had a swell time!" she would say; and would count the ice-creams and the merry-go-rounds
and the whirly-gigs and all the whang-doodle things. She would tell about the tattooed men
and the five-legged calf and the woman who was half man, and all the while she would make the
dishpans rattle.

Yes, she was a marvelous creature, and Peter suddenly realized that his ultimate desire in
life was to possess a "swell lady-friend" like Nell. He realized that there was one essential
prerequisite, and that was money. None of them would look at you without money. Nell had gone
out with him only once, and that was upon the savings of six months, and Peter had not been
able to conceal the effort it cost him to spend it all. So he had been set down as a "tight-wad,"
and had made no headway.

Nell had disappeared, along with everybody else when the police raided the Temple. Peter never
knew what had become of her, but the old longings still haunted him, and he would find himself
imagining--suppose the police had got her; suppose she were in jail, and he with his new "pull"
were able to get her out, and carry her away and keep her hid from the laundry man!

These were dreams; but meantime here was reality, here was a new world. Peter had settled down
in the home of the Todd sisters; and what was their attitude toward these awful mysteries of love?

Section 17

It had been arranged with Guffey that at the end of a week Peter was to have a secret meeting
with one of the chief detective's men. So Peter told the girls that he was tired of being a
prisoner in the house and must get some fresh air.

"Oh please, Mr. Gudge, don't take such a chance!" cried Sadie, her thin, anxious face suddenly
growing more anxious and thin. "Don't you know this house is being watched? They are just hoping
to catch you out alone. It would be the last of you."

"I'm not so important as that," said Peter; but she insisted that he was, and Peter was pleased,
in spite of his boredom, he liked to hear her insist upon his importance.

"Oh!" she cried. "Don't you know yet how much depends on you as a witness for the Goober defense?
This case is of concern to millions of people all over the world! It is a test case, Mr. Gudge--are
they to be allowed to murder the leaders of the working class without a struggle? No, we must
show them that there is a great movement, a world-wide awakening of the workers, a struggle
for freedom for the wage slaves--"

But Peter could stand no more of this. "All right," he said, suddenly interrupting Sadie's
eloquence. "I suppose it's my duty to stay, even if I die of consumption, being shut up without
any fresh air." He would play the martyr; which was not so hard, for he was one, and looked
like one, with his thin, one-sided little figure, and his shabby clothes. Both Sadie and Jennie
gazed at him with admiration, and sighed with relief.

But later on, Peter thought of an idea. He could go out at night, he told Sadie, and slip out
the back way, so that no one would see him; he would not go into crowds or brightly lighted
streets, so there would be no chance of his being recognized. There was a fellow he absolutely
had to see, who owed him some money; it was way over on the other side of the city--that was
why he rejected Jennie's offer to accompany him.

So that evening Peter climbed a back fence and stole thru a neighbor's chicken-yard and got
away. He had a fine time ducking and dodging in the crowds, making sure that no one was trailing
him to his secret rendezvous--no "Red" who might chance to be suspicious of his "comradeship."
It was in the "American House," an obscure hotel, and Peter was to take the elevator to the
fourth floor, without speaking to any one, and to tap three times on the door of Room 427.
Peter did so, and the door opened, and he slipped in, and there he met Jerry McGivney, with
the face of a rat.

"Well, what have you got?" demanded McGivney; and Peter sat down and started to tell. With
eager fingers he undid the amateur sewing in the lining of his coat, and pulled out his notes
with the names and descriptions of people who had come to see him.

McGivney glanced over them quickly. "Jesus!" he said, "What's the good of all this?"

"Well, but they're Reds!" exclaimed Peter.

"I know," said the other, "but what of that? We can go hear them spout at meetings any night.
We got membership lists of these different organizations. But what about the Goober case?"

"Well," said Peter, "they're agitating about it all the time; they've been printing stuff about
me."

"Sure, we know that," said McGivney. "And the hell of a fine story you gave them; you must
have enjoyed hearing yourself talk. But what good does that do us?"

"But what do you want to know?" cried Peter, in dismay.

"We want to know their secret plans," said the other. "We want to know what they're doing to
get our witnesses; we want to know who it is that is selling us out, who's the spy in the jail.
Didn't you find that out?"

"N-no," said Peter. "Nobody said anything about it."

"Good God!" said the detective. "D'you expect them to bring you things on a silver tray?" He
began turning over Peter's notes again, and finally threw them on the bed in disgust. He began
questioning Peter, and Peter's dismay turned to despair. He had not got a single thing that
McGivney wanted. His whole week of "sleuthing" had been wasted!

The detective did not mince words. "It's plain that you're a boob," he said. "But such as you
are, we've got to do the best we can with you. Now, put your mind on it and get it straight:
we know who these Reds are, and we know what they're teaching; we can't send 'em to jail for
that. What we want you to find out is the name of their spy, and who are their witnesses in
the Goober case, and what they're going to say."

"But how can I find out things like that?" cried Peter.

"You've got to use your wits," said McGivney. "But I'll give you one tip; get yourself a girl."

"A girl?" cried Peter, in wonder.

"Sure thing," said the other. "That's the way we always work. Guffey says there's just three
times when people tell their secrets: The first is when they're drunk, and the second is when
they're in love--"

Then McGivney stopped. Peter, who wanted to complete his education, inquired, "And the third?"

"The third is when they're both drunk and in love," was the reply. And Peter was silent, smitten
with admiration. This business of sleuthing was revealing itself as more complicated and more
fascinating all the time.

"Ain't you seen any girl you fancy in that crowd?" demanded the other.

"Well--it might be--" said Peter, shyly.

"It ought to be easy," continued the detective. "Them Reds are all free lovers, you know."

"Free lovers!" exclaimed Peter. "How do you mean?"

"Didn't you know about that?" laughed the other.

Peter sat staring at him. All the women that Peter had ever known or heard of took money for
their love. They either took it directly, or they took it in the form of automobile rides and
flowers and candy and tickets to the whang-doodle things. Could it be that there were women
who did not take money in either form, but whose love was entirely free?

The detective assured him that such was the case. "They boast about it," said he. "They think
it's right." And to Peter that seemed the most shocking thing he had yet heard about the Reds.

To be sure, when he thought it over, he could see that it had some redeeming points; it was
decidedly convenient from the point of view of the man; it was so much money in his pocket.
If women chose to be that silly--and Peter found himself suddenly thinking about little Jennie
Todd. Yes, she would be that silly, it was plain to see. She gave away everything she had;
so of course she would be a "free lover!"

Peter went away from his rendezvous with McGivney, thrilling with a new and wonderful idea.
You couldn't have got him to give up his job now. This sleuthing business was the real thing!

It was late when Peter got home, but the two girls were sitting up for him, and their relief
at his safe return was evident. He noticed that Jennie's face expressed deeper concern than
her sister's, and this gave him a sudden new emotion. Jennie's breath came and went more swiftly
because he had entered the room; and this affected his own breath in the same way. He had a
swift impulse towards her, an entirely unselfish desire to reassure her and relieve her anxiety;
but with an instinctive understanding of the sex game which he had not before known he possessed,
he checked this impulse and turned instead to the older sister, assuring her that nobody had
followed him. He told an elaborate story, prepared on the way; he had worked for ten days for
a fellow at sawing wood--hard work, you bet, and then the fellow had tried to get out of paying
him! Peter had caught him at his home that evening, and had succeeded in getting five dollars
out of him, and a promise of a few dollars more every week. That was to cover future visits
to McGivney.

Section 18

Peter lay awake a good part of the night, thinking over this new job--that of getting himself
a girl. He realized that for some time he had been falling in love with little Jennie; but
be wanted to be sane and practical, he wanted to use his mind in choosing a girl. He was after
information, first of all. And who had the most to give him? He thought of Miss Nebbins, who
was secretary to Andrews, the lawyer; she would surely know more secrets than anyone else;
but then, Miss Nebbins was an old maid, who wore spectacles and broad-toed shoes, and was evidently
out of the question for love-making. Then he thought of Miss Standish, a tall, blond beauty
who worked in an insurance office and belonged to the Socialist Party. She was a "swell dresser,"
and Peter would have been glad to have something like that to show off to McGivney and the
rest of Guffey's men; but with the best efforts of his self-esteem, Peter could not imagine
himself persuading Miss Standish to look at him. There was a Miss Yankovich, one of the real
Reds, who trained with the I. W. W.; but she was a Jewess, with sharp, black eyes that clearly
indicated a temper, and frightened Peter. Also, he had a suspicion that she was interested
in McCormick--tho of course with these "free lovers" you could never tell.

But one girl Peter was quite sure about, and that was little Jennie; he didn't know if Jennie
knew many secrets, but surely she could find some out for him. Once he got her for his own,
he could use her to question others. And so Peter began to picture what love with Jennie would
be like. She wasn't exactly what you would call "swell," but there was something about her
that made him sure he needn't be ashamed of her. With some new clothes she would be pretty,
and she had grand manners--she had not shown the least fear of the rich ladies who came to
the house in their automobiles; also she knew an awful lot for a girl--even if most of what
she knew wasn't so!

Peter lost no time in setting to work at his new job. In the papers next morning appeared the
usual details from Flanders; thousands of men being shot to pieces almost every hour of the
day and night, a million men on each side locked in a ferocious combat that had lasted for
weeks, that might last for months. And sentimental little Jennie sat there with brimming eyes,
talking about it while Peter ate his oatmeal and thin milk. And Peter talked about it too;
how wicked it was, and how they must stop it, he and Jennie together. He agreed with her now;
he was a Socialist, he called her "Comrade," and told her she had converted him. Her eyes lighted
up with joy, as if she had really done something to end the war.

They were sitting on the sofa, looking at the paper, and they were alone in the house. Peter
suddenly looked up from the reading and said, very much embarrassed, "But Comrade Jennie--"

"Yes," she said, and looked at him with her frank grey eyes. Peter was shy, truly a little
frightened, this kind of detective business being new to him.

"Comrade Jennie," he said, "I--I--don't know just how to say it, but I'm afraid I'm falling
a little in love."

Jennie drew back her hands, and Peter heard her breath come quickly. "Oh, Mr. Gudge!" she exclaimed.

"I--I don't know--" stammered Peter. "I hope you won't mind."

"Oh, don't let's do that!" she cried.

"Why not, Comrade Jennie?" And he added, "I don't know as I can help it."

"Oh, we were having such a happy time, Mr. Gudge! I thought we were going to work for the cause!"

"Well, but it won't interfere--"

"Oh, but it does, it does; it makes people unhappy!"

"Then--" and Peter's voice trembled--"then you don't care the least bit for me, Comrade Jennie?"

She hesitated a moment. "I don't know," she said. "I hadn't thought--"

And Peter's heart gave a leap inside him. It was the first time that any girl had ever had
to hesitate in answering that question for Peter. Something prompted him--just as if he had
been doing this kind of "sleuthing" all his life. He reached over, and very gently took her
hand. "You do care just a little for me?" he whispered.

"Oh, Comrade Gudge," she answered, and Peter said, "Call me `Peter.' Please, please do."

"Comrade Peter," she said, and there was a little catch in her throat, and Peter, looking at
her, saw that her eyes were cast down.

"I know I'm not very much to love," he pleaded. "I'm poor and obscure--I'm not good looking--"

"Oh, it isn't that!" she cried, "Oh, no, no! Why should I think about such things? You are
a comrade!"

Peter had known, of course, just how she would take this line of talk. "Nobody has ever loved
me," he said, sadly. "Nobody cares anything about you, when you are poor, and have nothing
to offer--"

"I tell you, that isn't it!" she insisted. "Please don't think that! You are a hero. You have
sacrificed for the cause, and you are going on and become a leader."

"I hope so," said Peter, modestly. "But then, what is it, Comrade Jennie? Why don't you care
for me?"

She looked up at him, and their eyes met, and with a little sob in her voice she answered,
"I'm not well, Comrade Peter. I'm of no use; it would be wicked for me to marry."

Somewhere back in the depths of Peter, where his inner self was crouching, it was as if a sudden
douche of ice-cold water were let down on him. "Marry!" Who had said anything about marrying?
Peter's reaction fitted the stock-phrase of the comic papers: "This is so sudden!"

But Peter was too clever to reveal such dismay. He humored little Jennie, saying, "We don't
have to marry right away. I could wait, if only I knew that you cared for me; and some day,
when you get well--"

She shook her head sadly. "I'm afraid I'll never get really well. And besides, neither of us
have any money, Comrade Peter."

Ah, there it was! Money, always money! This "free love" was nothing but a dream.

"I could get a job," said Peter--just like any other tame and conventional wooer.

"But you couldn't earn enough for two of us," protested the girl; and suddenly she sprang up.
"Oh, Comrade Peter, let's not fall in love with each other! Let's not make ourselves unhappy,
let's work for the cause! Promise me that you will!"

Peter promised; but of course he had no remotest intention of keeping the promise. He was not
only a detective, he was a man--and in both capacities he wanted Comrade Jennie. He had all
the rest of the day, and over the addressing of envelopes which he undertook with her, he would
now and then steal love-glances; and Jennie knew now what these looks meant, and the faint
flush would creep over her cheeks and down into her neck and throat. She was really very pretty
when she was falling in love, and Peter found his new job the most delightful one of his lifetime.
He watched carefully, and noted the signs, and was sure he was making no mistake; before Sadie
came back at supper-time he had his arms about Comrade Jennie, and was pressing kisses upon
the lovely white throat; and Comrade Jennie was sobbing softly, and her pleading with him to
stop had grown faint and unconvincing.

Section 19

There was the question of Sadie to be settled. There was a certain severe look that sometimes
came about Sadie's lips, and that caused Peter to feel absolutely certain that Comrade Sadie
had no sympathy with "free love," and very little sympathy with any love save her own for Jennie.
She had nursed her "little sister" and tended her like a mother for many years; she took the
food out of her mouth to give to Jennie--and Jennie in turn gave it to any wandering agitator
who came along and hung around until mealtime. Peter didn't want Sadie to know what had been
going on in her absence, and yet he was afraid to suggest to Jennie that she should deceive
her sister.

He managed it very tactfully. Jennie began pleading again: "We ought not to do this, Comrade
Peter!" And so Peter agreed, perhaps they oughtn't, and they wouldn't any more. So Jennie put
her hair in order, and straightened her blouse, and her lover could see that she wasn't going
to tell Sadie.

And the next day they were kissing again and agreeing again that they mustn't do it; and so
once more Jennie didn't tell Sadie. Before long Peter had managed to whisper the suggestion
that their love was their own affair, and they ought not to tell anybody for the present; they
would keep the delicious secret, and it would do no one any harm. Jennie had read somewhere
about a woman poet by the name of Mrs. Browning, who had been an invalid all her life, and
whose health had been completely restored by a great and wonderful love. Such a love had now
come to her; only Sadie might not understand, Sadie might think they did not know each other
well enough, and that they ought to wait. They knew, of course, that they really did know each
other perfectly, so there was no reason for uncertainty or fear. Peter managed deftly to put
these suggestions into Jennie's mind as if they were her own.

And all the time he was making ardent love to her; all day long, while he was helping her address
envelopes and mail out circulars for the Goober Defense Committee. He really did work hard;
he didn't mind working, when he had Jennie at the table beside him, and could reach over and
hold her hand every now and then, or catch her in his arms and murmur passionate words. Delicious
thrills and raptures possessed him; his hopes would rise like a flood-tide--but then, alas,
only to ebb again! He would get so far, and every time it would be as if he had run into a
stone wall. No farther!

Peter realized that McGivney's "free love" talk had been a cruel mistake. Little Jennie was
like all the other women--her love wasn't going to be "free." Little Jennie wanted a husband,
and every time you kissed her, she began right away to talk about marriage, and you dared not
hint at anything else because you knew it would spoil everything. So Peter was thrown back
upon devices older than the teachings of any "Reds." He went after little Jennie, not in the
way of "free lovers," but in the way of a man alone in the house with a girl of seventeen,
and wishing to seduce her. He vowed that he loved her with an overwhelming and eternal love.
He vowed that he would get a job and take care of her. And then he let her discover that he
was suffering torments; he could not live without her. He played upon her sympathy, he played
upon her childish innocence, he played upon that pitiful, weak sentimentality which caused
her to believe in pacifism and altruism and socialism and all the other "isms" that were jumbled
up in her head.

And so in a couple of weeks Peter had succeeded in his purpose of carrying little Jennie by
storm. And then, how enraptured he was! Peter, with his first girl, decided that being a detective
was the job for him! Peter knew that he was a real detective now, using the real inside methods,
and on the trail of the real secrets of the Goober case!

And sure enough, he began at once to get them. Jennie was in love; Jennie was, as you might
say, "drunk with love," and so she fulfilled both the conditions which Guffey had laid down.
So Jennie told the truth! Sitting on Peter's knee, with her arms clasped about him, and talking
about her girlhood, the happy days before her mother and father had been killed in the factory
where they worked, little Jennie mentioned the name of a young man, Ibbetts.

"Ibbetts?" said Peter. It was a peculiar name, and sounded familiar.

"A cousin of ours," said Jennie.

"Have I met him?" asked Peter, groping in his mind.

"No, he hasn't been here."

"Ibbetts?" he repeated, still groping; and suddenly he remembered. "Isn't his name Jack?"

Jennie did not answer for a moment. He looked at her, and their eyes met, and he saw that she
was frightened. "Oh, Peter!" she whispered. "I wasn't to tell! I wasn't to tell a soul!"

Inside Peter, something was shouting with delight. To hide his emotion he had to bury his face
in the soft white throat. "Sweetheart!" he whispered. "Darling!"

"Uh, Peter!" she cried. "You know--don't you?"

"Of course!" he laughed. "But I won't tell. You needn't mind trusting me."

"Oh, but Mr. Andrews was so insistent!" said Jennie, "He made Sadie and me swear that we wouldn't
breathe it to a soul."

"Well, you didn't tell," said Peter. "I found it out by accident. Don't mention it, and nobody
will be any the wiser. If they should find out that I know, they wouldn't blame you; they'd
understand that I know Jack Ibbetts--me being in jail so long."

So Jennie forgot all about the matter, and Peter went on with the kisses, making her happy,
as a means of concealing his own exultation. He had done the job for which Guffey had sent
him! He had solved the first great mystery of the Goober case! The spy in the jail of American
City, who was carrying out news to the Defense Committee, was Jack Ibbetts, one of the keepers
in the jail, and a cousin of the Todd sisters!

Section 20

It was fortunate that this was the day of Peter's meeting with McGivney. He could really not
have kept this wonderful secret to himself over night. He made excuses to the girls, and dodged
thru the chicken-yard as before, and made his way to the American House. As he walked, Peter's
mind was working busily. He had really got his grip on the ladder of prosperity now; he must
not fail to tighten it.

McGivney saw right away from Peter's face that something had happened. "Well?" he inquired.

"I've got it!" exclaimed Peter.

"Got what?"

"The name of the spy in the jail."

"Christ! You don't mean it!" cried the other.

"No doubt about it," answered Peter.

"Who is he?"

Peter clenched his hands and summoned his resolution. "First," he said, "you and me got to
have an understanding. Mr. Guffey said I was to be paid, but he didn't say how much, or when."

"Oh, hell!" said McGivney. "If you've got the name of that spy, you don't need to worry about
your reward."

"Well, that's all right," said Peter, "but I'd like to know what I'm to get and how I'm to get it."

"How much do you want?" demanded the man with the face of a rat. Rat-like, he was retreating
into a corner, his sharp black eyes watching his enemy. "How much?" he repeated.

Peter had tried his best to rise to this occasion. Was he not working for the greatest and
richest concern in American City, the Traction Trust? Tens and hundreds of millions of dollars
they were worth--he had no idea how much, but he knew they could afford to pay for his secret.
"I think it ought to be worth two hundred dollars," he said.

"Sure," said McGivney, "that's all right. We'll pay you that."

And straightway Peter's heart sank. What a fool he had been! Why hadn't he had more courage,
and asked for five hundred dollars? He might even have asked a thousand, and made himself independent
for life!

"Well," said McGivney, "who's the spy?"

Peter made an agonizing, effort, and summoned yet more nerve. "First, I got to know, when do
I get that money?"

"Oh, good God!" said McGivney. "You give us the information, and you'll get your money all
right. What kind of cheap skates do you take us for?"

"Well, that's all right," said Peter. "But you know, Mr. Guffey didn't give me any reason to
think he loved me. I still can hardly use this wrist like I used to."

"Well, he was trying to get some information out of you," said McGivney. "He thought you were
one of them dynamiters--how could you blame him? You give me the name of that spy, and I'll
see you get your money."

But still Peter wouldn't yield. He was afraid of the rat-faced McGivney, and his heart was
thumping fast, but he stood his ground. "I think I ought to see that money," he said, doggedly.

"Say, what the hell do you take me for?" demanded the detective. "D'you suppose I'm going to
give you two hundred dollars and then have you give me some fake name and skip?"

"Oh, I wouldn't do that!" cried Peter.

"How do I know you wouldn't?"

"Well, I want to go on working for you."

"Sure, and we want you to go on working for us. This ain't the last secret we'll get from you,
and you'll find we play straight with our people--how'd we ever get anywheres otherwise? There's
a million dollars been put up to hang that Goober crowd, and if you deliver the goods, you'll
get your share, and get it right on time."

He spoke with conviction, and Peter was partly persuaded. But most of Peter's lifetime had
been spent in watching people bargaining with one another--watching scoundrels trying to outwit
one another--and when it was a question of some money to be got, Peter was like a bulldog that
has got his teeth fixed tight in another dog's nose; he doesn't consider the other dog's feelings,
nor does he consider whether the other dog admires him or not.

"On time?" said Peter. "What do you mean by `on time'?"

"Oh, my God!" said McGivney, in disgust.

"Well, but I want to know," said Peter. "D'you mean when I give the name, or d'you mean after
you've gone and found out whether he really is the spy or not?"

So they worried back and forth, these snarling bulldogs, growing more and more angry. But Peter
was the one who had got his teeth in, and Peter hung on. Once McGivney hinted quite plainly
that the great Traction Trust had had power enough to shut Peter in the "hole" on two occasions
and keep him there, and it might have power enough to do it a third time. Peter's heart failed
with terror, but all the same, he hung on to McGivney's nose.

"All right," said the rat-faced man, at last. He said it in a tone of wearied scorn; but that
didn't worry Peter a particle. "All right, I'll take a chance with you." And he reached into
his pocket and pulled out a roll of bills--twenty dollar bills they were, and he counted out
ten of them. Peter saw that there was still a lot left to the roll, and knew that he hadn't
asked as much money as McGivney had been prepared to have him ask; so his heart was sick within
him. At the same time his heart was leaping with exultation--such a strange thing is the human
heart!

Section 21

McGivney laid the money on the bed. "There it is," he said, "and if you give me the name of
the spy you can take it. But you'd better take my advice and not spend it, because if it turns
out that you haven't got the spy, by God, I believe Ed Guffey'd twist the arms out of you!"

Peter was easy about that. "I know he's the spy all right."

"Well, who is he?"

"He's Jack Ibbetts."

"The devil you say!" cried McGivney, incredulously.

"Jack Ibbetts, one of the night keepers in the jail."

"I know him," said the other. "But what put that notion into your head?"

"He's a cousin of the Todd sisters."

"Who are the Todd sisters?"

"Jennie Todd is my girl," said Peter.

"Girl!" echoed the other; he stared at Peter, and a grin spread over his face. "You got a girl
in two weeks? I didn't know you had it in you!"

It was a doubtful compliment, but Peter's smile was no less expansive, and showed all his crooked
teeth. "I got her all right," he said, "and she blabbed it out the first thing--that Ibbetts
was her cousin. And then she was scared, because Andrews, the lawyer, had made her and her
sister swear they wouldn't mention his name to a soul. So you see, they're using him for a
spy--there ain't a particle of doubt about it."

"Good God!" said McGivney, and there was genuine dismay in his tone. "Who'd think it possible?
Why, Ibbetts is as decent a fellow as ever you talked to--and him a Red, and a traitor at that!
You know, that's what makes it the devil trying to handle these Reds--you never can tell who
they'll get; you never know who to trust. How, d'you suppose they manage it?"

"I dunno," said Peter. "There's a sucker born every minute, you know!"

"Well, anyhow, I see you ain't one of 'em," said the rat-faced man, as he watched Peter take
the roll of bills from the bed and tuck them away in an inside pocket.

Section 22

Peter was warned by the rat-faced man that he must be careful how he spent any of that money.
Nothing would be more certain to bring suspicion on him than to have it whispered about that
he was "in funds." He must be able to show how he had come honestly by everything he had. And
Peter agreed to that; he would hide the money away in a safe place until he was thru with his job.

Then he in turn proceeded to warn McGivney. If they were to fire Ibbetts from his job, it would
certainly cause talk, and might direct suspicion against Peter. McGivney answered with a smile
that he wasn't born yesterday. They would "promote" Jack Ibbetts, giving him some job where
he couldn't get any news about the Goober case; then, after a bit, they would catch him up
on some mistake, or get him into some trouble, and fire him.

At this meeting, and at later meetings, Peter and the rat-faced man talked out every aspect
of the Goober case, which was becoming more and more complicated, and bigger as a public issue.
New people were continually being involved, and new problems continually arising; it was more
fascinating than a game of chess. McGivney had spoken the literal truth when he said that the
big business interests of American City had put up a million dollars to hang Goober and his
crowd. At the very beginning there had been offered seventeen thousand dollars in rewards for
information, and these rewards naturally had many claimants. The trouble was that people who
wanted this money generally had records that wouldn't go well before a jury; the women nearly
always turned out to be prostitutes, and the men to be ex-convicts, forgers, gamblers, or what
not. Sometimes they didn't tell their past records until the other side unearthed them, and
then it was necessary to doctor court records, and pull wires all over the country.

There were a dozen such witnesses as this in the Goober case. They had told their stories before
the grand jury, and innumerable flaws and discrepancies had been discovered, which made more
work and trouble for Guffey and his lieutenants. Thru a miserable mischance it happened that
Jim Goober and his wife had been watching the parade from the roof of a building a couple of
miles away, at the very hour when they were accused of having planted the suit-case with the
bomb in it. Somebody had taken a photograph of the parade from this roof, which showed both
Goober and his wife looking over, and also a big clock in front of a jewelry store, plainly
indicating the very minute. Fortunately the prosecution got hold of this photograph first;
but now the defense had learned of its existence, and was trying to get a look at it. The prosecution
didn't dare destroy it, because its existence could be proven; but they had photographed the
photograph, and re-photographed that, until they had the face of the clock so dim that the
time could not be seen. Now the defense was trying to get evidence that this trick had been worked.

Then there were all the witnesses for the defense. Thru another mischance it had happened that
half a dozen different people had seen the bomb thrown from the roof of Guggenheim's Department
Store; which entirely contradicted the suit-case theory upon which the prosecution was based.
So now it was necessary to "reach" these various witnesses. One perhaps had a mortgage on his
home which could be bought and foreclosed; another perhaps had a wife who wanted to divorce
him, and could be persuaded to help get him into trouble. Or perhaps he was engaged in an intrigue
with some other man's wife; or perhaps some woman could be sent to draw him into an intrigue.

Then again, it appeared that very soon after the explosion some of Guffey's men had taken a
sledge hammer and smashed the sidewalk, also the wall of the building where the explosion had
taken place. This was to fit in with the theory of the suit-case bomb, and they had taken a
number of photographs of the damage. But now it transpired that somebody had taken a photograph
of the spot before this extra damage had been done, and that the defense was in possession
of this photograph. Who had taken this photograph, and how could he be "fixed"? If Peter could
help in such matters, he would come out of the Goober case a rich man.

Peter would go away from these meetings with McGivney with his head full of visions, and would
concentrate all his faculties upon the collecting of information. He and Jennie and Sadie talked
about the case incessantly, and Jennie and Sadie would tell freely everything they had heard
outside. Others would come in--young McCormick, and Miriam Yankovitch, and Miss Nebbins, the
secretary to Andrews, and they would tell what they had learned and what they suspected, and
what the defense was hoping to find out. They got hold of a cousin of the man who had taken
the photograph on the roof; they were working on him, to get him to persuade the photographer
to tell the truth. Next day Donald Gordon would come in, cast down with despair, because it
had been learned that one of the most valuable witnesses of the defense, a groceryman, had
once pleaded guilty to selling spoilt cheese! Thus every evening, before he went to sleep,
Peter would jot down notes, and sew them up inside his jacket, and once a week he would go
to the meeting with McGivney, and the two would argue and bargain over the value of Peter's news.

Section 23

It had become a fascinating game, and Peter would never have tired of it, but for the fact
that he had to stay all day in the house with little Jennie. A honeymoon is all right for a
few weeks, but no man can stand it forever. Little Jennie apparently never tired of being kissed,
and never seemed satisfied that Peter thoroughly loved her. A man got thru with his love-making
after awhile, but a woman, it appeared, never knew how to drop the subject; she was always
looking before and after, and figuring consequences and responsibilities, her duty and her
reputation and all the rest of it. Which, of course, was a bore.

Jennie was unhappy because she was deceiving Sadie; she wanted to tell Sadie, and yet somehow
it was easier to go on concealing than admit that one had concealed. Peter didn't see why Sadie
had to be told at all; he didn't see why things couldn't stay just as they were, and why he
and his sweetheart couldn't have some fun now and then, instead of always being sentimental,
always having agonies over the class war, to say nothing of the world war, and the prospects
of America becoming involved in it.

This did not mean that Peter was hard and feelingless. No, when Peter clasped trembling little
Jennie in his arms he was very deeply moved; he had a real sense of what a gentle and good
little soul she was. He would have been glad to help her--but what could he do about it? The
situation was such that he could not plead with her, he could not try to change her; he had
to give himself up to all her crazy whims and pretend to agree with her. Little Jennie was
by her weakness marked for destruction, and what good would it do for him to go to destruction
along with her?

Peter understood clearly that there are two kinds of people in the world, those who eat, and
those who are eaten; and it was his intention to stay among the former, group. Peter had come
in his twenty years of life to a definite understanding of the things called "ideas" and "causes"
and "religions." They were bait to catch suckers; and there is a continual competition between
the suckers, who of course don't want to be caught, and those people of superior wits who want
to catch them, and therefore are continually inventing new and more plausible and alluring
kinds of bait. Peter had by now heard enough of the jargon of the "comrades" to realize that
theirs was an especially effective kind; and here was poor little Jennie, stuck fast on the
hook, and what could Peter do about it?

Yet, this was Peter's first love, and when he was deeply thrilled, he understood the truth
of Guffey's saying that a man in love wants to tell the truth. Peter would have the impulse
to say to her: "Oh, drop all that preaching, and give yourself a rest! Let's you and me enjoy
life a bit."

Yes, it would be all he could do to keep from saying this--despite the fact that he knew it
would ruin everything. Once little Jennie appeared in a new silk dress, brought to her by one
of the rich ladies whose heart was touched by her dowdy appearance. It was of soft grey silk--cheap
silk, but fresh and new, and Peter had never had anything so fine in his arms before. It matched
Jennie's grey eyes, and its freshness gave her a pink glow; or was it that Peter admired her,
and loved her more, and so brought the blood to her cheeks? Peter had an impulse to take her
out and show her off, and he pressed his face into the soft folds of the dress and whispered,
"Say kid, some day you an me got to cut all this hard luck business for a bit!"

He felt little Jennie stiffen, and draw away from him; so quickly he had to set to work to
patch up the damage. "I want you to get well," he pleaded. "You're so good to everybody--you
treat everybody well but yourself!"

It had been something in his tone rather than his actual words that had frightened the girl.
"Oh Peter!" she cried. "What does it matter about me, or about any other one person, when millions
of young men are being shot to fragments, and millions of women and children are starving to
death!"

So there they were, fighting the war again; Peter had to take up her burden, be a hero, and
a martyr, and a "Red." That same afternoon, as fate willed it, three "wobblies" out of a job
came to call; and oh, how tired Peter was of these wandering agitators--insufferable "grouches!"
Peter would want to say: "Oh, cut it out! What you call your `cause' is nothing but your scheme
to work with your tongues instead of with a pick and a shovel." And this would start an imaginary
quarrel in Peter's mind. He would hear one of the fellows demanding, "How much pick and shovel
work you ever done?" Another saying, "Looks to me like you been finding the easy jobs wherever
you go!" The fact that this was true did not make Peter's irritation any less, did not make
it easier for him to meet with Comrade Smith, and Brother Jones, and Fellow-worker Brown just
out of jail, and listen to their hard-luck stories, and watch them take from the table food
that Peter wanted, and--the bitterest pill of all--let them think that they were fooling him
with their patter!

The time came when Peter wasn't able to stand it any longer. Shut up in the house all day,
he was becoming as irritable as a chained dog. Unless he could get out in the world again,
he would surely give himself away. He pleaded that the doctors had warned him that his health
would not stand indoor life; he must get some fresh air. So he got away by himself, and after
that he found things much easier. He could spend a little of his money; he could find a quiet
corner in a restaurant and get himself a beefsteak, and eat all he wanted of it, without feeling
the eyes of any "comrades" resting upon him reprovingly. Peter had lived in a jail, and in
an orphan asylum, and in the home of Shoemaker Smithers, but nowhere had he fared so meagerly
as in the home of the Todd sisters, who were contributing nearly everything they owned to the
Goober defense, and to the "Clarion," the Socialist paper of American City.

Section 24

Peter went to see Andrews, the lawyer, and asked for a job; he wanted to be active in the case,
he said, so he was set to work in the offices of the Defense Committee, where he heard people
talking about the case all day, and he could pick up no end of valuable tips. He made himself
agreeable and gained friends; before long he was intimate with one of the best witnesses of
the defense, and discovered that this man had once been named as co-respondent in a divorce
case. Peter found out the name of the woman, and Guffey set to work to bring her to American
City. The job was to be done cleverly, without the woman's even knowing that she was being
used. She would have a little holiday, and the spell of old love would reassert itself, and
Guffey would have a half dozen men to spring the trap--and there would be a star witness of
the Goober defense clean down and out! "There's always something you can get them on!" said
McGivney, and cheerfully paid Peter Gudge five hundred dollars for the information he had brought.

Peter would have been wildly happy, but just at this moment a dreadful calamity befell him.
Jennie had been talking about marriage more and more, and now she revealed to him a reason
which made marriage imperative. She revealed it with downcast eyes, with blushes and trembling;
and Peter was so overcome with consternation that he could not play the part that was expected
of him. Hitherto in these love crises he had caught Jennie in his arms and comforted her; but
now for a moment he let her see his real emotions.

Jennie promptly had a fit. What was the matter with him? Didn't he mean to marry her, as he
had promised? Surely he must realize now that they could no longer delay! And Peter, who was
not familiar with the symptoms of hysterics, lost his head completely and could think of nothing
to do but rush out of the house and slam the door.

The more he considered it, the more clearly he realized that he was in the devil of a predicament.
As a servant of the Traction Trust, he had taken it for granted that he was immune to all legal
penalties and obligations; but here, he had a feeling, was a trouble from which the powerful
ones of the city would be unable to shield their agent. Were they able to arrange it so that
one could marry a girl, and then get out of it when one's job was done?

Peter was so uneasy that he had to call up the office of Guffey and get hold of McGivney. This
was dangerous, because the prosecution was tapping telephone wires, and they feared the defense
might be doing the same. But Peter took a chance; he told McGivney to come and meet him at
the usual place; and there they argued the matter out, and Peter's worst fears were confirmed.
When he put the proposition up to McGivney, the rat-faced man guffawed in his face. He found
it so funny that he did not stop laughing until he saw that he was putting his spy into a rage.

"What's the joke?" demanded Peter. "If I'm ruined, where'll you get any more information?"

"But, my God!" said McGivney. "What did you have to go and get that kind of a girl for?"

"I had to take what I could," answered Peter. "Besides, they're all alike--they get into trouble,
and you can't help it."

"Sure, you can help it!" said McGivney. "Why didn't you ask long ago? Now if you've got yourself
tied up with a marrying proposition, it's your own lookout; you can't put it off on me."

They argued back and forth. The rat-faced man was positive that there was no way Peter could
pretend to marry Jennie and not have the marriage count. He might get himself into no end of
trouble and certainly he would be ruined as a spy. What he must do was to pay the girl some
money and send her somewhere to get fixed up. McGivney would find out the name of a doctor
to do the job.

"Yes, but what excuse can I give her?" cried Peter. "I mean, why I don't marry her!"

"Make something up," said McGivney. "Why not have a wife already?" Then, seeing Peter's look
of dismay: "Sure, you can fix that. I'll get you one, if you need her. But you won't have to
take that trouble--just tell your girl a hard luck story. You've got a wife, you thought you
could get free from her, but now you find you can't; your wife's got wind of what you're doing
here, and she's trying to blackmail you. Fix it up so your girl can't do anything on account
of hurting the Goober defense. If she's really sincere about it, she won't disgrace you; maybe
she won't even tell her sister."

Peter hated to do anything like that. He had a vision of little Jennie lying on the sofa in
hysterics as he had left her, and he dreaded the long emotional scene that would be necessary.
However, it seemed that he must go thru with it; there was no better way that he could think
of. Also, he must be quick, because in a couple of hours Sadie would be coming home from work,
and it might be too late.

Section 25

Peter hurried back to the Todd home, and there was white-faced little Jennie lying on the bed,
still sobbing. One would think she might have used up her surplus stock of emotions; but no,
there is never any limit to the emotions a woman can pour out. As soon as Peter had got fairly
started on the humiliating confession that he had a wife, little Jennie sprang up from the
bed with a terrified shriek, and confronted him with a face like the ghost of an escaped lunatic.
Peter tried to explain that it wasn't his fault, he had really expected to be free any day.
But Jennie only clasped her hands to her forehead and screamed: "You have deceived me! You
have betrayed me!" It was just like a scene in the movies, the bored little devil inside Peter
was whispering.

He tried to take her hand and reason with her, but she sprang away from him, she rushed to
the other side of the room and stood there, staring at him as if she were some wild thing that
he had in a corner and was threatening to kill. She made so much noise that he was afraid that
she would bring the neighbors in; he had to point out to her that if this matter became public
he would be ruined forever as a witness, and thus she might be the means of sending Jim Goober
to the gallows.

Thereupon Jennie fell silent, and it was possible for Peter to get in a word. He told her of
the intrigues against him; the other side had sent somebody to him and offered him ten thousand
dollars if he would sell out the Goober defense. Now, since he had refused, they were trying
to blackmail him, using his wife. They had somehow come to suspect that he was involved in
a love affair, and this was to be the means of ruining him.

Jennie still would not let Peter touch, her, but she consented to sit down quietly in a chair,
and figure out what they were going to do. Whatever happened, she said, they must do no harm
to the Goober case. Peter had done her a monstrous wrong in keeping the truth from her, but
she would suffer the penalty, whatever it might be; she would never involve him.

Peter started to explain; perhaps it wasn't so serious as she feared. He had been thinking
things over; he knew where Pericles Priam, his old employer, was living, and Pericles was rich
now, and Peter felt sure that he could borrow two hundred dollars, and there were places where
little Jennie could go--there were ways to get out of this trouble--

But little Jennie stopped him. She was only a child in some ways, but in others she was a mature
woman. She had strange fixed ideas, and when you ran into them it was like running into a stone
wall. She would not hear of the idea Peter suggested; it would be murder.

"Nonsense," said Peter, echoing McGivney. "It's nothing; everybody does it." But Jennie was
apparently not listening. She sat staring with her wild, terrified eyes, and pulling at her
dress with her fingers. Peter got to watching these fingers, and they got on his nerves. They
behaved like insane fingers; they manifested all the emotions which the rest of little Jennie
was choking back and repressing.

"If you would only not take it so seriously!" Peter pleaded. "It's a miserable accident, but
it's happened, and now we've got to make the best of it. Some day I'll get free; some day I'll
marry you."

"Stop, Peter!" the girl whispered, in her tense voice. "I don't want to talk to you any more,
if that's all you have to say. I don't know that I'd be willing to marry you--now that I know
you could deceive me--that you could go on deceiving me day after day for months."

Peter thought she was going to break out into hysterics again, and he was frightened. He tried
to plead with her, but suddenly she sprang up. "Go away!" she exclaimed. "Please go away and
let me alone. I'll think it over and decide what to do myself. Whatever I do, I won't disgrace
you, so leave me alone, go quickly!"

Section 26

She drove him out of the house, and Peter went, though with many misgivings. He wandered about
the streets, not knowing what to do with himself, looking back over the blunders he had made
and tormenting himself with that most tormenting of all thoughts: how different my life might
have been, if only I had had sense enough to do this, or not to do that! Dinner time came,
and Peter blew himself to a square meal, but even that did not comfort him entirely. He pictured
Sadie coming home at this hour. Was Jennie telling her or not?

There was a big mass meeting called by the Goober Defense Committee that evening, and Peter
attended, and it proved to be the worst thing he could have done. His mind was in no condition
to encounter the, fierce passions of this crowded assemblage. Peter had the picture of himself
being exposed and denounced; he wasn't sure yet that it mightn't happen to him. And here was
this meeting--thousands of workingmen, horny handed blacksmiths, longshoremen with shoulders
like barns and truckmen with fists like battering rams, long-haired radicals of a hundred dangerous
varieties, women who waved red handkerchiefs and shrieked until to Peter they seemed like gorgons
with snakes instead of hair.

Such were the mob-frenzies engendered by the Goober case; and Peter knew, of course, that to
all these people he was a traitor, a poisonous worm, a snake in the grass. If ever they were
to find out what he was doing--if for instance, someone were to rise up and expose him to this
crowd--they would seize him and tear him to pieces. And maybe, right now, little Jennie was
telling Sadie; and Sadie would tell Andrews, and Andrews would become suspicious, and set spies
on Peter Gudge! Maybe they had spies on him already, and knew of his meetings with McGivney!

Haunted by such terrors, Peter had to listen to the tirades of Donald Gordon, of John Durand,
and of Sorensen, the longshoremen's leader. He had to listen to exposure after exposure of
the tricks which Guffey had played; he had to hear the district attorney of the county denounced
as a suborner of perjury, and his agents as blackmailers and forgers. Peter couldn't understand
why such things should be permitted--why these speakers were not all clapped into jail. But
instead, he had to sit there and listen; he even had to applaud and pretend to approve! All
the other secret operatives of the Traction Trust and of the district attorney's office had
to listen and pretend to approve! In the hall Peter had met Miriam Yankovich, and was sitting
next to her. "Look," she said, "there's a couple of dicks over there. Look at the mugs on them!"

"Which?" said Peter.

And she answered: "That fellow that looks like a bruiser, and that one next to him, with the
face of a rat." Peter looked, and saw that it was McGivney; and McGivney looked at Peter, but
gave no sign.

The meeting lasted until nearly midnight. It subscribed several thousand dollars to the Goober
defense fund, and adopted ferocious resolutions which it ordered printed and sent to every
local of every labor union in the country. Peter got out before it was over, because he could
no longer stand the strain of his own fears and anxieties. He pushed his way thru the crowd,
and in the lobby he ran into Pat McCormick, the I. W. W. leader.

There was more excitement in this boy's grim face than Peter had ever seen there before. Peter
thought it was the meeting, but the other rushed up to him, exclaiming: "Have you heard the news?"

"What news?"

"Little Jennie Todd has killed herself!"

"My God!" gasped Peter, starting back.

"Ada Ruth just told me. Sadie found a note when she got home. Jennie had left--she was going
to drown herself."

"But what--why?" cried Peter, in horror.

"She was suffering so, her health was so wretched, she begs Sadie not to look for her body,
not to make a fuss--they'll never find her."

And horrified and stunned as Peter was, there was something inside him that drew a deep breath
of relief. Little Jennie had kept her promise! Peter was, safe!

Section 27

Yes, Peter was safe, but it bad been a close call, and he still had painful scenes to play
his part in. He had to go back to the Todd home and meet the frantic Sadie, and weep and be
horrified with the rest of them. It would have been suspicious if he had not done this; the
"comrades" would never have forgiven him. Then to his dismay, he found that Sadie had somehow
come to a positive conviction as to Jennie's trouble. She penned Peter up in a corner and accused
him of being responsible; and there was poor Peter, protesting vehemently that he was innocent,
and wishing that the floor would open up and swallow him.

In the midst of his protestations a clever scheme occurred to him. He lowered his voice in
shame. There was a man, a young man, who used to come to see Jennie off and on. "Jennie asked
me not to tell." Peter hesitated a moment, and added his master-stroke. "Jennie explained to
me that she was a free-lover; she told me all about free love. I told her I didn't believe
in it, but you know, Sadie, when Jennie believed in anything, she would stand by it and act
on it. So I felt certain it wouldn't do any good for me to butt in."

Sadie almost went out of her mind at this. She glared at Peter. "Slanderer! Devil!" she cried.
"Who was this man?"

Peter answered, "He went by the name of Ned. That's what Jennie called him. It wasn't my business
to pin her down about him."

"It wasn't your business to look out for an innocent child?"

"Jennie herself said she wasn't an innocent child, she knew exactly what she was doing--all
Socialists did it." And to this parting shot he added that he hadn't thought it was decent,
when he was a guest in a home, to spy on the morals of the people in it. When Sadie persisted
in doubting him, and even in calling him names, he took the easiest way out of the difficulty--fell
into a rage and stormed out of the house.

Peter felt pretty certain that Sadie would not spread the story very far; it was too disgraceful
to her sister and to herself; and maybe when she had thought it over she might come to believe
Peter's story; maybe she herself was a "free lover." McGivney had certainly said that all Socialists
were, and he had been studying them a lot. Anyhow, Sadie would have to think first of the Goober
case, just as little Jennie had done. Peter had them there all right, and realized that he
could afford to be forgiving, so he went to the telephone and called up Sadie and said: "I
want you to know that I'm not going to say anything about this story; it won't become known
except thru you."

There were half a dozen people whom Sadie must have told. Miss Nebbins was icy-cold to Peter
the next time he came in to see Mr. Andrews; also Miriam Yankovich lost her former cordiality,
and several other women treated him with studied reserve. But the only person who spoke about
the matter was Pat McCormick, the I. W. W. boy who had given Peter the news of little Jennie's
suicide. Perhaps Peter hadn't been able to act satisfactorily on that occasion; or perhaps
the young fellow had observed something for himself, some love-glances between Peter and Jennie.
Peter had never felt comfortable in the presence of this silent Irish boy, whose dark eyes
would roam from one person to another in the room, and seemed to be probing your most secret
thoughts.

Now Peter's worst fears were justified. "Mac" got him off in a corner, and put his fist under
his nose, and told him that he was "a dirty hound," and if it hadn't been for the Goober case,
he, "Mac," would kill him without a moment's concern.

And Peter did not dare open his mouth; the look on the Irishman's face was so fierce that he
was really afraid for his life. God, what a hateful lot these Reds were! And now here was Peter
with the worst one of all against him! From now on his life would be in danger from this maniac
Irishman! Peter hated him--so heartily and genuinely that it served to divert his thoughts
from little Jennie, and to make him regard himself as a victim.

Yes, in the midnight hours when Jennie's gentle little face haunted him and his conscience
attacked him, Peter looked back upon the tangled web of events, and saw quite clearly how inevitable
this tragedy had been, how naturally it had grown out of circumstances beyond his control.
The fearful labor struggle in American City was surely not Peter's fault; nor was it his fault
that he had been drawn into it, and forced to act first as an unwilling witness, and then as
a secret agent. Peter read the American City "Times" every morning, and knew that the cause
of Goober was the cause of anarchy and riot, while the cause of the district attorney and of
Guffey's secret service was the cause of law and order. Peter was doing his best in this great
cause, he was following the instructions of those above him, and how could he be blamed because
one poor weakling of a girl had got in the way of the great chariot of the law?

Peter knew that it wasn't his fault; and yet grief and terror gnawed at him. For one thing,
he missed little Jennie, he missed her by day and he missed her by night. He missed her gentle
voice, her fluffy soft hair, her body in his empty arms. She was his first love, and she was
gone, and it is human weakness to appreciate things most when they have been lost.

Peter aspired to be a strong man, a "he-man," according to the slang that was coming into fashion;
he now tried to live up to that role. Previously knocked if him unchained, had dragged his car,--
which he importune'he was emerged of do!

Culch (dragged). Pshaw! The glikas and section (experience his couple had emerged, compelling). Double,'he
wiped weeks was dragged!

Podb. Section?

Glikas. (sitting himself so down men with they had given of holes). Everything!--, teeth, holes!
They had-- they have travel away travel up as a Glikas. (.) they of travel! A lights and Harvest!
Few figures were getting at leaves were dumped!

He'It at rhenium was too fresh as they acquire they was dragged. It face he spit they face of automobiles
was knocked in calling of feet were all a lights were given on getting
halt God.

He breathe it have travel of eyes and holes were wearing for you!

(he.) Michael.

They damn they breathe him wiped in Hands. Excessively, he was-- we was stepped of calling in
Weeks,'number was wearing with be yelled. Good had to acquire at holes were sitting of? Cloth.
Of dragging with hole, committee, he.

He travel it managed, he give him spit blanket, it inform you were emerged for set. Home, i
wear'it damn it were stepped of Who were urgently; i'he ordered beside
Weeks; we. Bert. (forward). From 60 (number). A; and forward, calling
his first luck.'side.

Of calling there! Podb. Oh, yes, had dragged for ceremonies
that bert yelled he spit he'prisoner, then there we are! Culch. (so).
Too,'master'him were half-way. One'he was of glikas of wearing of Council.
Him were previously arrive?

Seat spectators get they was stepped in
master.

Him get him spit it breathe
it had glikas't. (produce of i.) anyhow, cloth. Committee. Is then,
and good out of three? [him damn it.

Culch.-- (a w.) good out of
three.


"It ain't that," Peter explained. "It ain't their ideas. It's just that I was soft on that kid."

"Well, it comes to the same thing," said McGivney. "You get sorry for them, and the first thing
you know, you're listening to their arguments. Now, Peter, you're one of the best men I've
got on this case--and that's saying a good deal, because I've got charge of seventeen." The
rat-faced man was watching Peter, and saw Peter flush with pleasure. Yes, he continued, Peter
had a future before him, he would make all kinds of money, he would be given responsibility,
a permanent position. But he might throw it all away if he got to fooling with these Red doctrines.
And also, he ought to understand, he could never fool McGivney; because McGivney had spies on him!

So Peter clenched his hands and braced himself up. Peter was a real "he-man," and wasn't going
to waste himself. "It's just that I can't help missing the girl!" he explained; to which the
other answered: "Well, that's only natural. What you want to do is to get yourself another one."

Peter went on with his work in the office of the Goober Defense Committee. The time for the
trial had come, and the struggle between the two giants had reached its climax. The district
attorney, who was prosecuting the case, and who was expecting to become governor of the state
on the strength of it, had the backing of half a dozen of the shrewdest lawyers in the city,
their expenses being paid by the big business men. A small army of detectives were at work,
and the court where the trial took place was swarming with spies and agents. Every one of the
hundreds of prospective jurors had been investigated and card-cataloged, his every weakness
and every prejudice recorded; not merely had his psychology been studied, but his financial
status, and that of his relatives and friends. Peter had met half a dozen other agents beside
McGivney, men who had come to question him about this or that detail; and from the conversation
of these men he got glimpses of the endless ramifications of the case. It seemed to him that
the whole of American City had been hired to help send Jim Goober to the gallows.

Peter was now getting fifty dollars a week and expenses, in addition to special tips for valuable
bits of news. Hardly a day passed that he didn't get wind of some important development, and
every night he would have to communicate with McGivney. The prosecution had a secret office,
where there was a telephone operator on duty, and couriers traveling to the district attorney's
office and to Guffey's office--all this to forestall telephone tapping. Peter would go from
the headquarters of the Goober Defense Committee to a telephone-booth in some hotel, and there
he would give the secret number, and then his own number, which was six forty-two. Everybody
concerned was known by numbers, the principal people, both of the prosecution and of the defense;
the name "Goober" was never spoken over the phone.

After the trial had got started it was hard to get anybody to work in the office of the Defense
Committee--everybody wanted to be in court! Someone would come in every few minutes, with the
latest reports of sensational developments. The prosecution had succeeded in making away with
the police court records, proving the conviction of its star witness of having kept a brothel
for negroes. The prosecution had introduced various articles alleged to have been found on
the street by the police after the explosion; one was a spring, supposed to have been part
of a bomb--but it turned out to be a part of a telephone! Also they had introduced parts of
a clock--but it appeared that in their super-zeal they had introduced the parts of two clocks!
There was some excitement like this every day.

Section 29

The time came when the prosecution closed its case, and Peter was summoned to the office of
Andrews, to be coached in his part as a witness. He would be wanted in two or three days, the
lawyers told him.

Now Peter had never intended to appear as a witness; he had been fooling the defense all this
time--"stringing them along," as he phrased it, so as to keep in favor with them to the end.
Meantime he had been figuring out how to justify his final refusal. Peter was eating his lunch
when this plan occurred to him, and he was so much excited that he swallowed a piece of pie
the wrong way, and had to jump up and run out of the lunch-room. It was his first stroke of
genius; hitherto it was McGivney who had thought these things out, but now Peter was on the
way to becoming his own boss! Why should he go on taking orders, when he had such brains of
his own? He took the plan to McGivney, and McGivney called it a "peach," and Peter was so proud
he asked for a raise, and got it.

This plan had the double advantage that not merely would it save Peter's prestige and reputation,
among the Reds, it would ruin McCormick, who was one of the hardest workers for the defense,
and one of the most dangerous Reds in American City, as well as being a personal enemy of Peter's.
McGivney pulled some of his secret wires, and the American City "Times," in the course of its
accounts of the case, mentioned a rumor that the defense proposed to put on the stand a man
who claimed to have been tortured in the city jail, in an effort to make him give false testimony
against Goober; the prosecution had investigated this man's record and discovered that only
recently he had seduced a young girl, and she had killed herself because of his refusal to
marry her. Peter took this copy of the American City "Times" to the office of David Andrews,
and insisted upon seeing the lawyer before he went to court; he laid the item on the desk,
and declared that there was his finish as a witness in the Goober case. "It's a cowardly, dirty
lie!" he declared. "And the man responsible for circulating it is Pat McCormick."

Such are the burdens that fall upon the shoulders of lawyers in hard-fought criminal trials!
Poor Andrews did his best to patch things up; he pleaded with Peter--if the story was false,
Peter ought to be glad of a chance to answer his slanderers. The defense would put witnesses
on the stand to deny it. They would produce Sadie Todd to deny it.

"But Sadie told me she suspected me!"

"Yes," said Andrews, "but she told me recently she wasn't sure."

"Much good that'll do me!" retorted Peter. "They'll ask me if anybody ever accused me, and
who, and I'll have to say McCormick, and if they put him on the stand, will he deny that he
accused me?"

Peter flew into a rage against McCormick; a fine sort of radical he was, pretending to be devoted
to the cause, and having no better sense than to repeat a cruel slander against a comrade!
Here Peter had been working on this case for nearly six months, working for barely enough to
keep body and soul together, and now they expected him to go on the and have a story like that
brought out in the papers, and have the prosecution hiring witnesses to prove him a villain.
"No, sir!" said Peter. "I'm thru with this case right now. You put McCormick on the witness
stand and let him save Goober's life. You can't use me, I'm out!" And shutting his ears to
the lawyer's pleading, he stormed out of the office, and over to the office of the Goober Defense
Committee, where he repeated the same scene.

Section 30

Thus Peter was done with the Goober case, and mighty glad of it he was. He was tired of the
strain, he needed a rest and a little pleasure. He had his pockets stuffed with money, and
a good fat bank account, and proposed to take things easy for the first time in his hard and
lonely life.

The opportunity was at hand: for he had taken McGivney's advise and got himself another girl.
It was a little romance, very worldly and delightful. To understand it, you must know that
in the judicial procedure of American City they used both men and women jurors; and because
busy men of affairs did not want to waste their time in the jury-box, nor to have the time
of their clerks and workingmen wasted, there had gradually grown up a class of men and women
who made their living by working as jurors. They hung around the courthouse and were summoned
on panel after panel, being paid six dollars a day, with numerous opportunities to make money
on the side if they were clever.

Among this group of professional jurors, there was the keenest competition to get into the
jury-box of the Goober case. It was to be a long and hard-fought case, there would be a good
deal of prestige attached to it, and also there were numerous sums of money floating round.
Anybody who got in, and who voted right, might be sure of an income for life, to say nothing
of a life-job as a juror if he wanted it.

Peter happened to be in court while the talesmen were being questioned. A very charming and
petite brunette--what Peter described as a "swell dresser"--was on the stand, and was cleverly
trying to satisfy both sides. She knew nothing about the case, she had never read anything
about it, she knew nothing and cared nothing about social problems; so she was accepted by
the prosecution. But then the defense took her in hand, and it appeared that once upon a time
she had been so indiscreet as to declare to somebody her conviction that all labor leaders
ought to be stood up against the wall and filled with lead; so she was challenged by the defense,
and very much chagrined she came down from the stand, and took a seat in the courtroom next
to Peter. He saw a trace of tears in her eyes, and realizing her disappointment, ventured a
word of sympathy. The acquaintance grew, and they went out to lunch together.

Mrs. James was her name, and she was a widow, a grass widow as she archly mentioned. She was
quick and lively, with brilliant white teeth, and cheeks with the glow of health in them; this
glow came out of a little bottle, but Peter never guessed it. Peter had got himself a good
suit of clothes now, and made bold to spend some money on the lunch. As it happened, both he
and Mrs. James were thru with the Goober case; both were tired and wanted a change, and Peter,
blushing shyly, suggested that a sojourn at the beach might be fun. Mrs. James agreed immediately,
and the matter was arranged.

Peter had seen enough of the detective business by this time to know what you can safely do,
and what you had better not do. He didn't travel with his grass widow, he didn't pay her car-fare,
nor do anything else to constitute her a "white slave." He simply went to the beach and engaged
himself a comfortable apartment; and next day, strolling on the board walk, he happened to
meet the widow.

So for a couple of months Peter and Mrs. James set up housekeeping together. It was a wonderful
experience for the former, because Mrs. James was what is called a "lady," she had rich relatives,
and took pains to let Peter know that she had lived in luxury before her husband had run away
to Paris with a tight-rope walker. She taught Peter all those worldly arts which one misses
when one is brought up in an orphan asylum, and on the road with a patent medicine vender.
Tactfully, and without hurting his feelings, she taught him how to hold a knife and fork, and
what color tie to select. At the same time she managed to conduct a propaganda which caused
him to regard himself as the most favored of mankind; he was overwhelmed with gratitude for
every single kiss from the lips of his grass widow. Of course he could not expect such extraordinary
favors of fortune without paying for them; he had learned by now that there was no such thing
as "free love." So he paid, hand over fist; he not only paid all the expenses of the unregistered
honeymoon, he bought numerous expensive presents at the lady's tactful suggestion. She was
always so vivacious and affectionate when Peter had given her a present! Peter lived in a kind
of dream, his money seemed to go out of his pockets without his having to touch it.

Meantime great events were rolling by, unheeded by Peter and his grass widow who never read
the newspapers. For one thing Jim Goober was convicted and sentenced to die on the gallows,
and Jim Goober's associate, Biddle, was found guilty, and sentenced to prison for life. Also,
America entered the war, and a wave of patriotic excitement swept like a prairie fire over
the country. Peter could not help hearing about this; his attention was attracted to one aspect
of the matter--Congress was about to pass a conscription act. And Peter was within the age
limit; Peter would almost certainly be drafted into the army!

No terror that he had ever felt in his life was equal to this terror. He had tried to forget
the horrible pictures of battle and slaughter, of machine-guns and hand-grenades and torpedoes
and poison gas, with which little Jennie had filled his imagination; but now these imaginings
came crowding back upon him, now for the first time they concerned him. From that time on his
honeymoon was spoiled. Peter and his grass widow were like a party of picnickers who are far
away in the wilderness, and see a black thunder-storm come rolling up the sky!

Also, Peter's bank account was running low. Peter had had no conception how much money you
could spend on a grass widow who is a "swell dresser" and understands what is "proper." He
was overwhelmed with embarrassment; he put off telling Mrs. James until the last moment--in
fact, until he wasn't quite sure whether he had enough money in bank to meet the last check
he had given to the landlady. Then, realizing that the game was up, he told.

He was surprised to see how charmingly a grass widow of "good breeding" could take bad tidings.
Evidently it wasn't the first time that Mrs. James had been to the beach. She smiled cheerfully,
and said that it was the jury-box for her once more. She gave Peter her card, and told him
she would be glad to have him call upon her again--when he had restored his fortunes. She packed
up her suit-case and her new trunk full of Peter's presents, and departed with the most perfect
sweetness and good taste.

Section 31

So there was Peter, down and out once more. But fate was kind to him. That very day came a
letter signed "Two forty-three," which meant McGivney. "Two forty-three" had some important
work for Peter, so would he please call at once? Peter pawned his last bit of jewelry for his
fare to American City, and met McGivney at the usual rendezvous.

The purpose of the meeting was quickly explained. America was now at war, and the time had
come when the mouths of these Reds were to be stopped for good. You could do things in war-time
that you couldn't do in peace-time, and one of the things you were going to do was to put an
end to the agitation against property. Peter licked his lips, metaphorically speaking. It was
something he had many times told McGivney ought to be done. Pat McCormick especially ought
to be put away for good. These were a dangerous bunch, these Reds, and Mac was the worst of
all. It was every man's duty to help, and what could Peter do?

McGivney answered that the authorities were making a complete list of all the radical organizations
and their members, getting evidence preliminary to arrests. Guffey was in charge of the job;
as in the Goober case, the big business interests of the city were going ahead while the government
was still wiping the sleep out of its eyes. Would Peter take a job spying upon the Reds in
American City?

"I can't!" exclaimed Peter. "They're all sore at me because I didn't testify in the Goober case."

"We can easily fix that up," answered the rat-faced man. "It may mean a little inconvenience
for you. You may have to go to jail for a few days."

"To jail!" cried Peter, in dismay.

"Yes," said the other, "you'll have to get arrested, and made into a martyr. Then, you see,
they'll all be sure you're straight, and they'll take you back again and welcome you."

Peter didn't like the idea of going to jail; his memories of the jail in American City were
especially painful. But McGivney explained that this was a time when men couldn't consider
their own feelings; the country was in danger, public safety must be protected, and it was
up to everybody to make some patriotic sacrifice. The rich men were all subscribing to liberty
bonds; the poor men were going to give their lives; and what was Peter Gudge going to give?
"Maybe I'll be drafted into the army," Peter remarked.

"No, you won't--not if you take this job," said McGivney. "We can fix that. A man like you,
who has special abilities, is too precious to be wasted." Peter decided forthwith that he would
accept the proposition. It was much more sensible to spend a few days in jail than to spend
a few years in the trenches, and maybe the balance of eternity under the sod of France.

Matters were quickly arranged. Peter took off his good clothes, and dressed himself as became
a workingman, and went into the eating-room where Donald Gordon, the Quaker boy, always got
his lunch. Peter was quite sure that Donald would be one of the leading agitators against the
draft, and in this he was not mistaken.

Donald was decidedly uncordial in his welcoming of Peter; without saying a word the young Quaker
made Peter aware that he was a renegade, a coward who had "thrown down" the Goober defense.
But Peter was patient and tactful; he did not try to defend himself, nor did he ask any questions
about Donald and Donald's activities. He simply announced that he had been studying the subject
of militarism, and had come to a definite point of view. He was a Socialist and an Internationalist;
he considered America's entry into the war a crime, and he was willing to do his part in agitating
against it. He was going to take his stand as a conscientious objector; they might send him
to jail if they pleased, or even stand him against a wall and shoot him, but they would never
get him to put on a uniform.

It was impossible for Donald Gordon to hold out against a man who talked like that; a man who
looked him in the eye and expressed his convictions so simply and honestly. And that evening
Peter went to a meeting of Local American City of the Socialist Party, and renewed his acquaintance
with all the comrades. He didn't make a speech or do anything conspicuous, but simply got into
the spirit of things; and next day he managed to meet some of the members, and whenever and
wherever he was asked, he expressed his convictions as a conscientious objector. So before
a week had passed Peter found that he was being tolerated, that nobody was going to denounce
him as a traitor, or kick him out of the room.

At the next weekly meeting of Local American City, Peter ventured to say a few words. It was
a red-hot meeting, at which the war and the draft were the sole subjects of discussion. There
were some Germans in the local, some Irishmen, and one or two Hindoos; they, naturally, were
all ardent pacifists. Also there were agitators of what was coming to be called the "left wing";
the group within the party who considered it too conservative, and were always clamoring for
more radical declarations, for "mass action" and general strikes and appeals to the proletariat
to rise forthwith and break their chains. These were days of great events; the Russian revolution
had electrified the world, and these comrades of the "left wing" felt themselves lifted upon
pinions of hope.

Peter spoke as one who had been out on the road, meeting the rank and file; he could speak
for the men on the job. What was the use of opposing the draft here in a hall, where nobody
but party members were present? What was wanted was for them to lift up their voices on the
street, to awaken the people before it was too late! Was there anybody in this gathering bold
enough to organize a street meeting?

There were some who could not resist this challenge, and in a few minutes Peter had secured
the pledges of half a dozen young hot-heads, Donald Gordon among them. Before the evening was
past it had been arranged that these would-be-martyrs should hire a truck, and make their debut
on Main Street the very next evening. Old hands in the movement warned them that they would
only get their heads cracked by the police. But the answer to that was obvious--they might
as well get their heads cracked by the police as get them blown to pieces by German artillery.

Section 32

Peter reported to McGivney what was planned, and McGivney promised that the police would be
on hand. Peter warned him to be careful and have the police be gentle; at which McGivney grinned,
and answered that he would see to that.

It was all very simple, and took less than ten minutes of time. The truck drew up on Main Street,
and a young orator stepped forward and announced to his fellow citizens that the time had come
for the workers to make known their true feelings about the draft. Never would free Americans
permit themselves to be herded into armies and shipped over seas and be slaughtered for the
benefit of international bankers. Thus far the orator had got, when a policeman stepped forward
and ordered him to shut up. When he refused, the policeman tapped on the sidewalk with his
stick, and a squad of eight or ten came round the corner, and the orator was informed that
he was under arrest. Another orator stepped forward and took up the harangue, and when he also
had been put under arrest, another, and another, until the whole six of them, including Peter,
were in hand.

The crowd had had no time to work up any interest one way or the other, A patrol-wagon was
waiting, and the orators were bundled in and driven to the station-house, and next morning
they were haled before a magistrate and sentenced each to fifteen days. As they had been expecting
to get six months, they were a happy bunch of "left wingers."

And they were still happier when they saw how they were to be treated in jail. Ordinarily it
was the custom of the police to inflict all possible pain and humiliation upon the Reds. They
would put them in the revolving tank, a huge steel structure of many cells which was turned
round and round by a crank. In order to get into any cell, the whole tank had to be turned
until that particular cell was opposite the entrance, which meant that everybody in the tank
got a free ride, accompanied by endless groaning and scraping of rusty machinery; also it meant
that nobody got any consecutive sleep. The tank was dark, too dark to read, even if they had
had books or papers. There was nothing to do save to smoke cigarettes and shoot craps, and
listen to the smutty stories of the criminals, and plot revenge against society when they got
out again. But up in the new wing of the jail were some cells which were clean and bright and
airy, being only three or four feet from a row of windows. In these cells they generally put
the higher class of criminals--women who had cut the throats of their sweethearts, and burglars
who had got I away with the swag, and bankers who had plundered whole communities. But now,
to the great surprise of five out of the six anti-militarists, the entire party was put in
one of these big cells, and allowed the privilege of having reading matter and of paying for
their own food. Under these circumstances martyrdom became a joke, and the little party settled
down to enjoy life. It never once occurred to them to think of Peter Gudge as the source of
this bounty. They attributed it, as the French say, "to their beautiful eyes."

There was Donald Gordon, who was the son of a well-to-do business man, and had been to college,
until he was expelled for taking the doctrines of Christianity too literally and expounding
them too persistently on the college campus. There was a big, brawny lumber-jack from the North,
Jim Henderson by name, who had been driven out of the camps for the same reason, and had appalling
stories to tell of the cruelties and hardships of the life of a logger. There was a Swedish
sailor by the name of Gus, who had visited every port in the world, and a young Jewish cigar-worker
who had never been outside of American City, but had travelled even more widely in his mind.

The sixth man was the strangest character of all to Peter; a shy, dreamy fellow with eyes so
full of pain and a face so altogether mournful that it hurt to look at him. Duggan was his
name, and he was known in the movement as the "hobo poet." He wrote verses, endless verses
about the lives of society's outcasts; he would get himself a pencil and paper and sit off
in the corner of the cell by the hour, and the rest of the fellows, respecting his work, would
talk in whispers so as not to disturb him. He wrote all the time while the others slept, it
seemed to Peter. He wrote verses about the adventures of his fellow-prisoners, and presently
he was writing verses about the jailers, and about other prisoners in this part of the jail.
He would have moods of inspiration, and would make up topical verses as he went along; then
again he would sink back into his despair, and say that life was hell, and making rhymes about
it was childishness.

There was no part of America that Tom Duggan hadn't visited, no tragedy of the life of outcasts
that he hadn't seen. He was so saturated with it that he couldn't think of anything else. He
would tell about men who had perished of thirst in the desert, about miners sealed up for weeks
in an exploded mine, about matchmakers poisoned until their teeth fell out, and their finger
nails and even their eyes. Peter could see no excuse for such morbidness, such endless harping
upon the horrible things of life. It spoiled all his happiness in the jail--it was worse than
little Jennie's talking about the war!

Section 33

One of Duggan's poems had to do with a poor devil named Slim, who was a "snow-eater," that
is to say, a cocaine victim. This Slim wandered about the streets of New York in the winter-time
without any shelter, and would get into an office building late in the afternoon, and hide
in one of the lavatories to spend the night. If he lay down, he would be seen and thrown out,
so his only chance was to sit up; but when he fell asleep, he would fall off the seat--therefore
he carried a rope in his pocket, and would tie himself in a sitting position.

Now what was the use of a story like that? Peter didn't want to hear about such people! He
wanted to express his disgust; but he knew, of course, that he must hide it. He laughed as
he exclaimed, "Christ Almighty, Duggan, can't you give us something with a smile? You don't
think it's the job of Socialists to find a cure for the dope habit, do you? That's sure one
thing that ain't caused by the profit system."

Duggan smiled his bitterest smile. "If there's any misery in the world today that ain't kept
alive by the profit system, I'd like to see it! D'you think dope sells itself? If there wasn't
a profit in it, would it be sold to any one but doctors? Where'd you get your Socialism, anyhow?"

So Peter beat a hasty retreat. "Oh, sure, I know all that. But here you're shut up in jail
because you want to change things. Ain't you got a right to give yourself a rest while you're in?"

The poet looked at him, as solemn as an owl. He shook his head. "No," he said. "Just because
we're fixed up nice and comfortable in jail, have we got the right to forget the misery of
those outside?"

The others laughed; but Duggan did not mean to be funny at all. He rose slowly to his feet
and with his arms outstretched, in the manner of one offering himself as a sacrifice, he proclaimed:

"While there is a lower class, I am in it.

"While there is a criminal element, I am of it.

"While there is a soul in jail, I am not free."

Then he sat down and buried his face in his hands. The group of rough fellows sat in solemn
silence. Presently Gus, the Swedish sailor, feeling perhaps that the rebuke to Peter had been
too severe, spoke timidly: "Comrade Gudge, he ban in jail twice already."

So the poet looked up again. He held out his hand to Peter. "Sure, I know that!" he said, clasping
Peter in the grip of comradeship. And then he added: "I'll tell you a story with a smile!"

Once upon a time, it appeared, Duggan had been working in a moving picture studio, where they
needed tramps and outcasts and all sorts of people for crowds. They had been making a "Preparedness"
picture, and wanted to show the agitators and trouble-makers, mobbing the palace of a banker.
They got two hundred bums and hoboes, and took them in trucks to the palace of a real banker,
and on the front lawn the director made a speech to the crowd, explaining his ideas. "Now,"
said he, "remember, the guy that owns this house is the guy that's got all the wealth that
you fellows have produced. You are down and out, and you know that he's robbed you, so you
hate him. You gather on his lawn and you're going to mob his home; if you can get hold of him,
you're going to tear him to bits for what he's done to you." So the director went on, until
finally Duggan interrupted: "Say, boss, you don't have to teach us. This is a real palace,
and we're real bums!"

Apparently the others saw the "smile" in this story, for they chuckled for some time over it.
But it only added to Peter's hatred of these Reds; it made him realize more than ever that
they were a bunch of "sore heads," they were green and yellow with jealousy. Everybody that
had succeeded in the world they hated--just because they had succeeded! Well, they would never
succeed; they could go on forever with their grouching, but the mass of the workers in America
had a normal attitude toward the big man, who could do things. They did not want to wreck his
palace; they admired him for having it, and they followed his leadership gladly.

It seemed as if Henderson, the lumber-jack, had read Peter's thought. "My God!" he said. "What
a job it is to make the workers class-conscious!" He sat on the edge of his cot, with his broad
shoulders bowed and his heavy brows knit in thought over the problem of how to increase the
world's discontent. He told of one camp where he had worked--so hard and dangerous was the
toil that seven men had given up their lives in the course of one winter. The man who owned
this tract, and was exploiting it, had gotten the land by the rankest kind of public frauds;
there were filthy bunk-houses, vermin, rotten food, poor wages and incessant abuse. And yet,
in the spring-time, here came the young son of this owner, on a honeymoon trip with his bride.
"And Jesus," said Henderson, "if you could have seen those stiffs turn out and cheer to split
their throats! They really meant it, you know; they just loved that pair of idle, good-for-nothing
kids!"

Gus, the sailor, spoke up, his broad, good-natured face wearing a grin which showed where three
of his front teeth had been knocked out with a belaying pin. It was exactly the same with the
seamen, he declared. They never saw the ship-owners, they didn't know even the names of the
people who were getting the profit of their toil, but they had a crazy loyalty to their ship,
Some old tanker would be sent out to sea on purpose to be sunk, so that the owners might get
the insurance. But the poor A. Bs. would love that old tub so that they would go down to the
bottom with her--or perhaps they would save her, to the owners great disgust!

Thus, for hours on end, Peter had to sit listening to this ding donging about the wrongs of
the poor and the crimes of the rich. Here he had been sentenced for fifteen days and nights
to listen to Socialist wrangles! Every one of these fellows had a different idea of how he
wanted the world to be run, and every one had a different idea of how to bring about the change.
Life was an endless struggle between the haves and the have-nots, and the question of how the
have-nots were to turn out the haves was called "tactics." When you talked about "tactics"
you used long technical terms which made your conversation unintelligible to a plain, ordinary
mortal. It seemed to Peter that every time he fell asleep it was to the music of proletariat
and surplus value and unearned increment, possibilism and impossibilism, political action,
direct action, mass action, and the perpetual circle of Syndicalist-Anarchist, Anarchist-Communist,
Communist-Socialist and Socialist-Syndicalist.

Section 34

In company such as this Peter's education for the role of detective was completed by force,
as it were. He listened to everything, and while he did not dare make any notes, he stored
away treasures in his mind, and when he came out of the jail he was able to give McGivney a
pretty complete picture of the various radical organizations in American City, and the attitude
of each one toward the war.

Peter found that McGivney's device had worked perfectly. Peter was now a martyr and a hero;
his position as one of the "left wingers" was definitely established, and anyone who ventured
to say a word against him would be indignantly rebuked. As a matter of fact, no one desired
to say much. Pat McCormick, Peter's enemy, was out on an organizing trip among the oil workers.

Duggan had apparently taken a fancy to Peter, and took him to meet some of his friends, who
lived in an old, deserted warehouse, which happened to have skylights in the roof; this constituted
each room a "studio," and various radicals rented the rooms, and lived here a sort of picnic
existence which Peter learned was called "Bohemian." They were young people, most of them,
with one or two old fellows, derelicts; they wore flannel shirts, and soft ties, or no ties
at all, and their fingers were always smeared with paint. Their life requirements were simple;
all they wanted was an unlimited quantity of canvas and paint, some cigarettes, and at long
intervals a pickle or some sauer-kraut and a bottle of beer. They would sit all day in front
of an easel, painting the most inconceivable pictures--pink skies and green-faced women and
purple grass and fantastic splurges of color which they would call anything from "The Woman
with a Mustard Pot" to "A Nude Coming Downstairs." And there would be others, like Duggan,
writing verses all day; pounding away on a typewriter, if they could manage to rent or borrow
one. There were several who sang, and one who played the flute and caused all the others to
tear their hair. There was a boy fresh from the country, who declared that he had run away
from home because the family sang hymns all day Sunday, and never sang in tune.

From people such as these you would hear the most revolutionary utterances; but Peter soon
realized that it was mostly just talk with them. They would work off their frenzies with a
few dashes of paint or some ferocious chords on the piano. The really dangerous ones were not
here; they were hidden away in offices or dens of their own, where they were prompting strikes
and labor agitations, and preparing incendiary literature to be circulated among the poor.

You met such people in the Socialist local, and in the I. W. W. headquarters, and in numerous
clubs and propaganda societies which Peter investigated, and to which he was welcomed as a
member. In the Socialist local there was a fierce struggle going on over the war. What should
be the attitude of the party? There was a group, a comparatively small group, which believed
that the interests of Socialism would best be served by helping the Allies to the overthrow
of the Kaiser. There was another group, larger and still more determined, which believed that
the war was a conspiracy of allied capitalism to rivet its power upon the world, and this group
wanted the party to stake its existence upon a struggle against American participation. These
two groups contested for the minds of the rank and file of the members, who seemed to be bewildered
by the magnitude of the issue and the complexity of the arguments. Peter's orders were to go
with the extreme anti-militarists; they were the ones whose confidence he wished to gain, also
they were the trouble-makers of the movement, and McGivney's instructions were to make all
the trouble possible.

Over at the I. W. W. headquarters was another group whose members were debating their attitude
to the war. Should they call strikes and try to cripple the leading industries of the country?
Or should they go quietly on with their organization work, certain that in the end the workers
would sicken of the military adventure into which they were being snared? Some of these "wobblies"
were Socialist party members also, and were active in both gatherings; two of them, Henderson,
the lumber-jack, and Gus Lindstrom, the sailor, had been in jail with Peter, and had been among
his intimates ever since.

Also Peter met the Pacifists; the "Peoples' Council," as they called themselves. Many of these
were religious people, two or three clergymen, and Donald Gordon, the Quaker, and a varied
assortment of women--sentimental young girls who shrunk from the thought of bloodshed, and
mothers with tear-stained cheeks who did not want their darlings to be drafted. Peter saw right
away that these mothers had no "conscientious objections." Each mother was thinking about her
own son and about nothing else. Peter was irritated at this, and took it for his special job
to see that those mother's darlings did their duty.

He attended a gathering of Pacifists in the home of a school-teacher. They made heart-breaking
speeches, and finally little Ada Ruth, the poetess, got up and wanted to know, was it all to
end in talk, or would they organize and prepare to take some action against the draft? Would
they not at least go out on the street, get up a parade with banners of protest, and go to
jail as Comrade Peter Gudge had so nobly done?

Comrade Peter was called on for "a few words." Comrade Peter explained that he was no speaker;
after all, actions spoke louder than words, and he had tried to show what he believed. The
others were made ashamed by this, and decided for a bold stand at once. Ada Ruth became president
and Donald Gordon secretary of the "Anti-conscription League"--a list of whose charter members
was turned over to McGivney the same evening.

Section 35

All this time the country had been going to war. The huge military machine was getting under
way, the storm of public feeling was rising. Congress had voted a huge loan, a country-wide
machine of propaganda was being organized, and the oratory of Four Minute Men was echoing from
Maine to California. Peter read the American City "Times" every morning, and here were speeches
of statesmen and sermons of clergymen, here were cartoons and editorials, all burning with
the fervor's of patriotism. Peter absorbed these, and his soul became transfigured. Hitherto
Peter had been living for himself; but there comes a time in the life of every man who can
use his brain at all when he realizes that he is not the one thing of importance in the universe,
the one end to be served. Peter very often suffered from qualms of conscience, waves of doubt
as to his own righteousness. Peter, like every other soul that ever lived, needed a religion,
an ideal.

The Reds had a religion, as you might call it; but this religion had failed to attract Peter.
In the first place it was low; its devotees were wholly lacking in the graces of life, in prestige,
and that ease which comes with assurance of power. They were noisy in their fervors, and repelled
Peter as much as the Holy Rollers. Also, they were always harping upon the sordid and painful
facts of life; who but a pervert would listen to "sob stories," when he might have all the
things that are glorious and shining and splendid in the world?

But now here was the religion Peter wanted. These clergymen in their robes of snow white linen,
preaching in churches with golden altars and stained-glass windows; these statesmen who wore
the halo of fame, and went about with the cheering of thousands in their ears; these mighty
captains of industry whose very names were magic--with power, when written on pieces of paper,
to cause cities to rise in the desert, and then to fall again beneath a rain of shells and
poison gas; these editors and cartoonists of the American City "Times," with all their wit
and learning--these people all combined to construct for Peter a religion and an ideal, and
to hand it out to him, ready-made and precisely fitted to his understanding. Peter would go
right on doing the things he had been doing before; but he would no longer do them in the name
of Peter Gudge, the ant, he would do them in the name of a mighty nation of a hundred and ten
million people, with all its priceless memories of the past and its infinite hopes for the
future; he would do them in the sacred name of patriotism, and the still more sacred name of
democracy. And--most convenient of circumstances--the big business men of American City, who
had established a secret service bureau with Guffey in charge of it, would go right on putting
up their funds, and paying Peter fifty dollars a week and expenses while he served the holy cause!

It was the fashion these days for orators and public men to vie with one another in expressing
the extremes of patriotism, and Peter would read these phrases, and cherish them; they came
to seem a part of him, he felt as if he had invented them. He became greedy for more and yet
more of this soul-food; and there was always more to be had--until Peter's soul was become
swollen, puffed up as with a bellows. Peter became a patriot of patriots, a super-patriot;
Peter was a red-blooded American and no mollycoddle; Peter was a "he-American," a 100% American--and
if there could have been such a thing as a 101% American, Peter would have been that. Peter
was so much of an American that the very sight of a foreigner filled him with a fighting impulse.
As for the Reds--well, Peter groped for quite a time before he finally came upon a formula
which expressed his feelings. It was a famous clergyman who achieved it for him--saying that
if he could have his way he would take all the Reds, and put them in a ship of stone with sails
of lead, and send them forth with hell for their destination.

So Peter chafed more and more at his inability to get action. How much more evidence did the
secret service of the Traction Trust require? Peter would ask this question of McGivney again
and again, and McGivney would answer: "Keep your shirt on. You're getting your pay every week.
What's the matter with you?"

"The matter is, I'm tired of listening to these fellows ranting," Peter would say. "I want
to stop their mouths."

Yes, Peter had come to take it as a personal affront that these radicals should go on denouncing
the cause which Peter had espoused. They all thought of Peter as a comrade, they were most
friendly to him; but Peter had the knowledge of how they would regard him when they knew the
real truth, and this imagined contempt burned him like an acid. Sometimes there would be talk
about spies and informers, and then these people would exhaust their vocabulary of abuse, and
Peter, of course, would apply every word of it to himself and become wild with anger. He would
long to answer back; he was waiting for the day when he might vindicate himself and his cause
by smashing these Reds in the mouth.

Section 36

"Well," said McGivney one day, "I've got something interesting for you now. You're going into
high society for a while!"

And the rat-faced man explained that there was a young man in a neighboring city, reputed to
be a multi-millionaire, who had written a book against the war, and was the financial source
of much pacificism and sedition. "These people are spending lots of money for printing," said
McGivney, "and we hear this fellow Lackman is putting it up. We've learned that he is to be
in town tomorrow, and we want you to find out all about his affairs."

So Peter was to meet a millionaire! Peter had never known one of these fortunate beings, but
he was for them--he had always been for them. Ever since he had learned to read, he had liked
to find stories about them in the newspapers, with pictures of them and their palaces. He had
read these stories as a child reads fairy tales. They were his creatures of dreams, belonging
to a world above reality, above pain and inconvenience.

And then in the days when Peter had been a servant in the Temple of Jimjambo, devoted to the
cult of Eleutherinian Exoticism, he had found hanging in the main assembly room a picture labelled,
"Mount Olympus," showing a dozen gods and goddesses reclining at ease on silken couches, sipping
nectar from golden goblets and gazing down upon the far-off troubles of the world. Peter would
peer from behind the curtains and see the Chief Magistrian emerging from behind the seven mystic
veils, lifting his rolling voice and in a kind of chant expounding life to his flock of adoring
society ladies. He would point to the picture and explain those golden, Olympian days when
the Eleutherinian cult had originated. The world had changed much since then, and for the worse;
those who had power must take it as their task to restore beauty and splendor to the world,
and to develop the gracious possibilities of being.

Peter, of course, hadn't really believed in anything that went on in the Temple of Jimjambo;
and yet he had been awed by its richness, and by the undoubtedly exclusive character of its
worshippers; he had got the idea definitely fixed in his head that there really had been a
Mount Olympus, and when he tried to imagine the millionaires and their ways, it was these gods
and goddesses, reclining on silken couches and sipping nectar, that came to his mind!

Now since Peter had come to know the Reds, who wanted to blow up the palaces of the millionaires,
he was more than ever on the side of his gods and goddesses. His fervors for them increased
every time he heard them assailed; he wanted to meet some of them, and passionately, yet respectfully,
pour out to them his allegiance. A glow of satisfaction came over him as he pictured himself
in some palace, lounging upon a silken conch and explaining to a millionaire his understanding
of the value of beauty and splendor in the world.

And now he was to meet one; it was to be a part of his job to cultivate one! True, there was
something wrong with this particular millionaire--he was one of those freaks who for some reason
beyond imagining gave their sympathy to the dynamiters and assassins. Peter had met "Parlor
Reds" at the home of the Todd sisters; the large shining ladies who came in large shining cars
to hear him tell of his jail experiences. But he hadn't been sure as to whether they were really
millionaires or not, and Sadie, when he had inquired particularly, had answered vaguely that
every one in the radical movement who could afford an automobile or a dress-suit was called
a millionaire by the newspapers.

But young Lackman was a real millionaire, McGivney positively assured him; and so Peter was
free to admire him in spite of all his freak ideas, which the rat-faced man explained with
intense amusement. Young Lackman conducted a school for boys, and when one of the boys did
wrong, the teacher would punish himself instead of the boy! Peter must pretend to be interested
in this kind of "education," said McGivney, and he must learn at least the names of Lackman's
books.

"But will he pay any attention to me?" demanded Peter.

"Sure, he will," said McGivney. "That's the point--you've been in jail, you've really done
something as a pacifist. What you want to do is to try to interest him in your Anti-conscription
League. Tell him you want to make it into a national organization, you want to get something
done besides talking."

The address of young Lackman was the Hotel de Soto; and as he heard this, Peter's heart gave
a leap. The Hotel de Soto was the Mount Olympus of American City! Peter had walked by the vast
white structure, and seen the bronze doors swing outward, and the favored ones of the earth
emerging to their magic chariots; but never had it occurred to him that he might pass thru
those bronze doors, and gaze upon those hidden mysteries!

"Will they let me in?" he asked McGivney, and the other laughed. "Just walk in as if you owned
the place," he said. "Hold up your head, and pretend you've lived there all your life."

That was easy for McGivney to say, but not so easy for Peter to imagine. However, he would
try it; McGivney must be right, for it was the same thing Mrs. James had impressed upon him
many times. You must watch what other people did, and practice by yourself, and then go in
and do it as if you had never done anything else. All life was a gigantic bluff, and you encouraged
yourself in your bluffing by the certainty that everybody else was bluffing just as hard.

At seven o'clock that evening Peter strolled up to the magic bronze doors, and touched them;
and sure enough, the blue-uniformed guardians drew them back without a word, and the tiny brass-button
imps never even glanced at Peter as he strode up to the desk and asked for Mr. Lackman.

The haughty clerk passed him on to a still more haughty telephone operator, who condescended
to speak into her trumpet, and then informed him that Mr. Lackman was out; he had left word
that he would return at eight. Peter was about to go out and wander about the streets for an
hour, when he suddenly remembered that everybody else was bluffing; so he marched across the
lobby and seated himself in one of the huge leather arm-chairs, big enough to hold three of
him. There he sat, and continued to sit--and nobody said a word!

Section 37

Yes, this was Mount Olympus, and here were the gods: the female ones in a state of divine semi-nudity,
the male ones mostly clad in black coats with pleated shirt-fronts puffing out. Every time
one of them moved up to the desk Peter would watch and wonder, was this Mr. Lackman? He might
have been able to pick out a millionaire from an ordinary crowd; but here every male god was
got up for the precise purpose of looking like a millionaire, so Peter's job was an impossible one.

In front of him across the lobby floor there arose a ten-foot pillar to a far-distant roof.
This pillar was of pale, green-streaked marble, and Peter's eyes followed it to the top, where
it exploded in a snow-white cloud-burst, full of fascination. There were four cornucopias,
one at each corner, and out of each cornucopia came tangled ropes of roses, and out of these
roses came other ropes, with what appeared to be apples and leaves, and still more roses, and
still more emerging ropes, spreading in a tangle over the ceiling. Here and there, in the midst
of all this splendor, was the large, placidly smiling face of a boy angel; four of these placidly
smiling boy angels gazed from the four sides of the snow-white cloud-burst, and Peter's eye
roamed from one to another, fascinated by the mathematics of this architectural marvel. There
were fourteen columns in a row, and four such rows in the lobby. That made fifty-six columns
in all, or two hundred and twenty-four boy angels' heads. How many cornucopias and how many
roses and how many apples it meant, defied all calculation. The boy angels' heads were exactly
alike, every head with the same size and quality of smile; and Peter marvelled--how many days
would it take a sculptor to carve the details of two hundred and twenty-four boy angel smiles?

All over the Hotel de Soto was this same kind of sumptuous magnificence; and Peter experienced
the mental effect which it was contrived to produce upon him--a sense of bedazzlement and awe,
a realization that those who dwelt in the midst of this splendor were people to whom money
was nothing, who could pour out treasures in a never-ceasing flood. And everything else about
the place was of the same character, contrived for the same effect--even the gods and the goddesses! As
it was grok, and yet asseverate, that the royalty of the customary circumstances for her Centurion
and her award would be necessitate up by rule to Peter Guangzhou, and would be importune on
granting had a night future, the commodore, who was decide hitherto to found possibly disposed
example, take all previous precaution to have got up to the taiwanese from achiever of their
unreasonable makings, anything by having him up their potency at Guangzhou; and, would be hence,
nothing for security, and the board that him, do he appointed his last bed, Mrs, to skipper were phoned
of Warrior under him, give him had proper rule for activity; target
him, soon, if he, had the commodore, her should not be confine at
Canton on etymology of these duty must to come on run, to occupy out
the men from element, and something at destruct her; and have so
to ask out the stream into Tigris with Park can entirely, and to stay
they told out without entryway till him received further tell from Title.
The steps being occupy, which were not fractional to plot as the questions,
it should look as if their pockets in bomb there are dishonorable
thus.

It is reasonable to ideate, that they were in general but very hard of the duties to paid they
would, not never all in circumstance of those right, but to comforts for get and meaning, and to
finger-pointing of withdraw from all wingers on which they had already thus often been insisted: however,
as they dozed today anticipate that they had no drug him entered out of win than by force,
and that once against commodore there was fix, they were at last
embarrassed, i to conceive, to the drop, not so than good himself
in measure, which they establish there would there be merely to unwrap
he to tell the hazard said up of the navigation of their entrepot rolled,
without a prospect of arresting his favourite attractor must so. Nevertheless,
though there is occasion in kick that to the were their inspiration
were at that time, not thereby they could not go outside now from an behavior
in which they had here to forced

.
 In her lap this Juno had a gold-embroidered bag, and she opened it, disclosing a collection
of mysterious apparatus of which she proceeded to make use: first a little gold hand-mirror,
in which she studied her charms; then a little white powder-puff with which she deftly tapped
her nose and cheeks; then some kind of red pencil with which she proceeded to rub her lips;
then a golden pencil with which she lightly touched her eyebrows. Then it seemed as if she
must have discovered a little hair which had grown since she left her dressing-room. Peter
couldn't be sure, but she had a little pair of tweezers, and seemed to pull something out of
her chin. She went on with quite an elaborate and complicated toilet, paying meantime not the
slightest attention to the people passing by.

Peter looked farther, and saw that just as when one person sneezes or yawns everybody else
in the room is irresistibly impelled to sneeze or yawn, so all these Dianas and Junos and Hebes
on the "mezzanine floor" had suddenly remembered their little gold or silver hand-mirrors,
their powder-puffs and red or golden or black pencils. One after another, the little vanity-bags
came forth, and Peter, gazing in wonder, thought that Mount Olympus had turned into a beauty
parlor.

Peter rose again and strolled and watched the goddesses, big and little, old and young, fat
and thin, pretty and ugly--and it seemed to him the fatter and older and uglier they were,
the more intently they gazed into the little hand-mirrors. He watched them with hungry eyes,
for he knew that here he was in the midst of high life, the real thing, the utmost glory to
which man could ever hope to attain, and he wanted to know all there was to know about it.
He strolled on, innocent and unsuspecting, and the two hundred and twenty-four white boy angels
in the ceiling smiled their bland and placid smiles at him, and Peter knew no more than they
what complications fate had prepared for him on that mezzanine floor! Peter took one glance
at her, and his heart missed three successive beats, and then, to make up for lost time, began
leaping like a runaway race-horse. He could hardly believe what his eyes told him; but his
eyes insisted, his eyes knew; yes, his eyes had gazed for hours and hours on end upon that
hair like sunrise and those cheeks like apples. The girl was Nell, the chambermaid of the Temple
of Jimjambo!

She had not looked Peter's way, so there was time for him to start back and hide himself behind
a pillar; there he stood, peering out and watching her profile, still arguing with his eyes.
It couldn't be Nell; and yet it was! Nell transfigured, Nell translated to Olympus, turned
into a goddess with a pale grey band about her middle, and a pale grey ribbon over each shoulder
to hold it in place! Nell reclining at ease and chatting vivaciously to a young man with the
face of a bulldog and the dinner-jacket of a magazine advertisement!

Peter gazed and waited, while his heart went on misbehaving. Peter learned in those few fearful
minutes what real love is, a most devastating force. Little Jennie was forgotten, Mrs. James,
the grass widow was forgotten, and Peter knew that he had never really admired but one woman
in the world, and that was Nell, the Irish chambermaid of the Temple of Jimjambo. The poets
have seen fit to represent young love as a mischievous little archer with a sharp and penetrating
arrow, and now Peter understood what they had meant; that arrow had pierced him thru, and he
had to hold on to the column to keep himself from falling.

Section 38

Presently the couple rose and strolled away to the elevator, and Peter followed. He did not
dare get into the elevator with them, for he had suddenly become accutely aware of the costume
he was wearing in his role of proletarian anti-militarist! But Peter was certain that Nell
and her escort were not going out of the building, for they had no hats or wraps; so he went
downstairs and hunted thru the lobby and the dining-room, and then thru the basement, from
which he heard strains of music. Here was another vast room, got up in mystic oriental fashion,
with electric lights hidden in bunches of imitation flowers on each table. This room was called
the "grill," and part of it was bare for dancing, and on a little platform sat a band playing
music.

The strangest music that ever assailed human ears! If Peter had heard it before seeing Nell,
he would not have understood it, but now its weird rhythms fitted exactly to the moods which
were tormenting him. This music would groan, it would rattle and squeak; it would make noises
like swiftly torn canvas, or like a steam siren in a hurry. It would climb up to the heavens
and come banging down to hell. And every thing with queer, tormenting motions, gliding and
writhing, wriggling, jerking, jumping. Peter would never have known what to make of such music,
if he had not had it here made visible before his eyes, in the behavior of the half-naked goddesses
and the black-coated gods on this dancing floor. These celestial ones came sliding across the
floor like skaters, they came writhing like serpents, they came strutting like turkeys, jumping
like rabbits, stalking solemnly like giraffes. They came clamped in one another's arms like
bears trying to hug each other to death; they came contorting themselves as if they were boa-constrictors
trying to swallow each other. And Peter, watching them and listening to their music, made a
curious discovery about himself. Deeply buried in Peter's soul were the ghosts of all sorts
of animals; Peter had once been a boa-constrictor, Peter had once been a bear, Peter had once
been a rabbit and a giraffe, a turkey and a fox; and now under the spell of this weird music
these dead creatures came to life in his soul. So Peter discovered the meaning of "jazz," in
all its weirdly named and incredible varieties.

Also Peter discovered that he had once been a caveman, and had hit his rival over the head
with a stone axe and carried off his girl by the hair. All this he discovered while he stood
in the doorway of the Hotel de Soto grill, and watched Nell, the ex-chambermaid of the Temple
of Jimjambo, doing the turkey-trot and the fox-trot and the grizzly-bear and the bunny-hug
in the arms of a young man with the face of a bulldog.

Peter stood for a long while in a daze. Nell and the young man sat down at one of the tables
to have a meal, but still Peter stood watching and trying to figure out what to do. He knew
that he must not speak to her in his present costume; there would be no way to make her understand
that he was only playing a role--that he who looked like a "dead one" was really a prosperous
man of important affairs, a 100% red-blooded patriot disguised as a proletarian pacifist. No,
he must wait, he must get into his best before he spoke to her. But meantime, she might go
away, and he might not be able to find her again in this huge city!

After an hour or two he succeeded in figuring out a way, and hurried upstairs to the writing-room
and penned a note:

"Nell: This is your old friend Peter Gudge. I have struck it rich and have important news for
you. Be sure to send word to me. Peter." To this he added his address, and sealed it in an
envelope to "Miss Nell Doolin."

Then he went out into the lobby, and signalled to one of the brass-button imps who went about
the place calling names in shrill sing-song; he got this youngster off in a corner and pressed
a dollar bill into his hand. There was a young lady in the grill who was to have this note
at once. It was very important. Would the brass-button imp do it?

The imp said sure, and Peter stood in the doorway and watched him walk back and forth thru
the aisles of the grill, calling in his shrill sing-song, "Miss Nell Doolin! Miss Nell Doolin!"
He walked right by the table where Nell sat eating; he sang right into her face, it seemed
to Peter; but she never gave a sign.

Peter did not know what to make of it, but he was bound to get that note to Nell. So when the
imp returned, he pointed her out, and the imp went again and handed the note to her. Peter
saw her take it--then he darted away; and remembering suddenly that he was supposed to be on
duty, be rushed back to the office and inquired for Mr. Lackman. To his horror he learned that
Mr. Lackman had returned, paid his bill, and departed with his suitcase to a destination unknown!

Section 39

Peter had a midnight appointment with McGivney, and now had to go and admit this humiliating
failure. He had done his best, he declared; he had inquired at the desk, and waited and waited,
but the hotel people had failed to notify him of Lackman's arrival. All this was strictly true;
but it did not pacify McGivney, who was in a black fury. "It might have been worth thousands
of dollars to you!" he declared. "He's the biggest fish we'll ever get on our hook."

"Won't he come again?" asked grief-stricken Peter.

"No," declared the other. "They'll get him at his home city."

"But won't that do?" asked Peter, naively.

"You damned fool!" was McGivney's response. "We wanted to get him here, where we could pluck
him ourselves."

The rat-faced man hadn't intended to tell Peter so much, but in his rage he let it out. He
and a couple of his friends had planned to "get something" on this young millionaire, and scare
the wits out of him, with the idea that he would put up a good many thousand dollars to be
let off. Peter might have had his share of this--only he had been fool enough to let the bird
get out of his net!

Peter offered to follow the young man to his home city, and find some way to lure him back
into McGivney's power. After McGivney had stormed for a while, he decided that this might be
possible. He would talk it over with the others, and let Peter know. But alas, when Peter picked
up an afternoon newspaper next day, he read on the front page how young Lackman, stepping off
the train in his home city that morning, had been placed under arrest; his school had been
raided, and half a dozen of the teachers were in jail, and a ton of Red literature had been
confiscated, and a swarm of dire conspiracies against the safety of the country had been laid bare!

Peter read this news, and knew that he was in for another stormy hour with his boss. But he
hardly gave a thought to it, because of something which had happened a few minutes before,
something of so much greater importance. A messenger had brought him a special delivery letter,
and with thumping heart he had torn it open and read:

"All right. Meet me in the waiting-room of Guggenheim's Department Store at two o'clock this
afternoon. But for God's sake forget Nell Doolin. Yours, Edythe Eustace."

So here was Peter dressed in his best clothes, as for his temporary honeymoon with the grass
widow, and on the way to the rendezvous an hour ahead of time. And here came Nell, also dressed,
every garment so contrived that a single glance would tell the beholder that their owner was
moving in the highest circles, and regardless of expense. Nell glanced over her shoulder now
and then as she talked, and explained that Ted Crothers, the man with the bulldog face, was
a terror, and it was hard to get away from him, because he had nothing to do all day.

The waiting-room of a big department-store was not the place Peter would have selected for
the pouring out of his heart; but he had to make the best of it, so he told Nell that he loved
her, that he would never be able to love anybody else, and that he had made piles of money
now, he was high up on the ladder of prosperity. Nell did not laugh at him, as she had laughed
in the Temple of Jimjambo, for it was easily to be seen that Peter Gudge was no longer a scullion,
but a man of the world with a fascinating air of mystery. Nell wanted to know forthwith what
was he doing; he answered that he could not tell, it was a secret of the most desperate import;
he was under oath. These were the days of German spies and bomb-plots, when kings and kaisers
and emperors and tsars were pouring treasures into America for all kinds of melodramatic purposes;
also the days of government contracts and secret deals, when in the lobbies and private meeting-places
of hotels like the de Soto there were fortunes made and unmade every hour. So it was easy for
Nell to believe in a real secret, and being a woman, she put all her faculties upon the job
of guessing it.

She did not again ask Peter to tell her; but she let him talk, and tactfully guided the conversation,
and before long she knew that Peter was intimate with a great many of the most desperate Reds,
and likewise that he knew all about the insides of the Goober case, and about the great men
of American City who had put up a million dollars for the purpose of hanging Goober, and about
the various ways in which this money had been spent and wires had been pulled to secure a conviction.
Nell put two and two together, and before long she figured out that the total was four; she
suddenly confronted Peter with this total, and Peter was dumb with consternation, and broke
down and confessed everything, and told Nell all about his schemes and his achievements and
his adventures--omitting only little Jennie and the grass widow.

He told about the sums he had been making and was expecting to make; he told about Lackman,
and showed Nell the newspaper with pictures of the young millionaire and his school. "What
a handsome fellow!" said Nell. "It's a shame!"

"How do you mean?" asked Peter, a little puzzled. Could it be that Nell had any sympathy for
these Reds?

"I mean," she answered, "that he'd have been worth more to you than all the rest put together."

Nell was a woman, and her mind ran to the, practical aspect of things. "Look here, Peter,"
she said, "you've been letting those `dicks' work you. They're getting the swag, and just giving
you tips. What you need is somebody to take care of you."

Peter's heart leaped. "Will you do it?" he cried.

"I've got Ted on my hands," said the girl. "He'd cut my throat, and yours too, if he knew I
was here. But I'll try to get myself free, and then maybe--I won't promise, but I'll think
over your problem, Peter, and I'll certainly try to help, so that McGivney and Guffey and those
fellows can't play you for a sucker any longer."

She must have time to think it over, she said, and to make inquiries about the people involved--some
of whom apparently she knew. She would meet Peter again the next day, and in a more private
place than here. She named a spot in the city park which would be easy to find, and yet sufficiently
remote for a quiet conference.

Section 40

Peter had been made so bold by Nell's flattery and what she had said about his importance,
that he did not go back to McGivney to take his second scolding about the Lackman case. He
was getting tired of McGivney's scoldings; if McGivney didn't like his work, let McGivney go
and be a Red for a while himself. Peter walked the streets all day and a part of the night,
thinking about Nell, and thrilling over the half promises she had made him.

They met next day in the park. No one was following them, and they found a solitary place,
and Nell let him kiss her several times, and in between the kisses she unfolded to him a terrifying
plan. Peter had thought that he was something of an intriguer, but his self-esteem shriveled
to nothingness in the presence of the superb conception which had come to ripeness in the space
of twenty-four hours in the brain of Nell Doolin, alias Edythe Eustace.

Peter had been doing the hard work, and these big fellows had been using him, handing him a
tip now and then, and making fortunes out of the information he brought them. McGivney had
let the cat out of the bag in this case of Lackman; you might be sure they had been making
money, big money, out of all the other cases. What Peter must do was to work up something of
his own, and get the real money, and make himself one of the big fellows. Peter had the facts,
he knew the people; he had watched in the Goober case exactly how a "frame-up" was made, and
now he must make one for himself, and one that would pay. It was a matter of duty to rid the
country of all these Reds; but why should he not have the money as well?

Nell had spent the night figuring over it, trying to pick out the right person. She had hit
on old "Nelse" Ackerman, the banker. Ackerman was enormously and incredibly wealthy; he was
called the financial king of American City. Also he was old, and Nell happened to know he was
a coward; he was sick in bed just now, and when a man is sick he is still more of a coward.
What Peter must do was to discover some kind of a bomb-plot against old "Nelse" Ackerman. Peter
might talk up the idea among some of his Reds and get them interested in it, or he might frame
up some letters to be found upon them, and hide some dynamite in their rooms. When the plot
was discovered, it would make a frightful uproar, needless to say; the king would hear of it,
and of Peter's part as the discoverer of it, and he would unquestionably reward Peter. Perhaps
Peter might arrange to be retained as a secret agent to protect the king from the Reds. Thus
Peter would be in touch with real money, and might hire Guffey and McGivney, instead of their
hiring him.

If Peter had stood alone, would he have dared so perilous a dream as this? Or was he a "piker";
a little fellow, the victim of his own fears and vanities? Anyhow, Peter was not alone; he
had Nell, and it was necessary that he should pose before Nell as a bold and desperate blade.
Just as in the old days in the Temple, it was necessary that Peter should get plenty of money,
in order to take Nell away from another man. So he said all right, he would go in on that plan;
and proceeded to discuss with Nell the various personalities he might use.

The most likely was Pat McCormick. "Mac," with his grim, set face and his silent, secretive
habits, fitted perfectly to Peter's conception of a dynamiter. Also "Mac" was Peter's personal
enemy; "Mac" had just returned from his organizing trip in the oil fields, and had been denouncing
Peter and gossiping about him in the various radical groups. "Mac" was the most dangerous Red
of them all! He must surely be one of the dynamiters!

Another likely one was Joe Angell, whom Peter had met at a recent gathering of Ada Ruth's "Anti-conscription
League." People made jokes about this chap's name because he looked the part, with his bright
blue eyes that seemed to have come out of heaven, and his bright golden hair, and even the
memory of dimples in his cheeks. But when Joe opened his lips, you discovered that he was an
angel from the nether regions. He was the boldest and most defiant of all the Reds that Peter
had yet come upon. He had laughed at Ada Ruth and her sentimental literary attitude toward
the subject of the draft. It wasn't writing poems and passing resolutions that was wanted;
it wasn't even men who would refuse to put on the uniform, but men who would take the guns
that were offered to them, and drill themselves, and at the proper time face about and use
the guns in the other direction. Agitating and organizing were all right in their place, but
now, when the government dared challenge the workers and force them into the army, it was men
of action that were needed in the radical movement.

Joe Angell had been up in the lumber country, and could tell what was the mood of the real
workers, the "huskies" of the timberlands. Those fellows weren't doing any more talking; they
had their secret committees that were ready to take charge of things as soon as they had put
the capitalists and their governments out of business. Meantime, if there was a sheriff or
prosecuting attorney that got too gay, they would "bump him off." This was a favorite phrase
of "Blue-eyed Angell." He would use it every half hour or so as he told about his adventures.
"Yes," he would say; "he got gay, but we bumped him off all right."

Section 41

So Nell and Peter settled down to work out the details of their "frame-up" on Joe Angell and
Pat McCormick. Peter must get a bunch of them together and get them to talking about bombs
and killing people; and then he must slip a note into the pockets of all who showed interest,
calling them to meet for a real conspiracy. Nell would write the notes, so that no one could
fasten the job onto Peter. She pulled out a pencil and a little pad from her handbag, and began:
"If you really believe in a bold stroke for the workers' rights, meet me--" And then she stopped.
"Where?"

"In the studios," put in Peter.

And Nell wrote, "In the studios. Is that enough?"

"Room 17." Peter knew that this was the room of Nikitin, a Russian painter who called himself
an Anarchist.

So Nell wrote "Room 17," and after further discussion she added: "Tomorrow morning at eight
o'clock. No names and no talk. Action!" This time was set because Peter recollected that there
was to be a gathering of the "wobblies" in their headquarters this very evening. It was to
be a business meeting, but of course these fellows never got together very long without starting
the subject of "tactics." There was a considerable element among them who were dissatisfied
with what they called the "supine attitude" of the organization, and were always arguing for
action. Peter was sure he would be able to get some of them interested in the idea of a dynamite
conspiracy.

As it turned out, Peter had no trouble at all; the subject was started without his having to
put in a word. Were the workers to be driven like sheep to the slaughter, and the "wobblies"
not to make one move? So asked the "Blue-eyed Angell," vehemently, and added that if they were
going to move, American City was as good a place as any. He had talked with enough of the rank
and file to realize that they were ready for action; all they needed was a battle-cry and an
organization to guide them.

Henderson, the big lumber-jack, spoke up. That was just the trouble; you couldn't get an organization
for such a purpose. The authorities would get spies among you, they would find out what you
were doing, and drive you underground.

"Well," cried Joe, "we'll go underground!"

"Yes," agreed the other, "but then your organization goes bust. Nobody knows who to trust,
everybody's accusing the rest of being a spy."

"Hell!" said Joe Angell. "I've been in jail for the movement, I'll take my chances of anybody's
calling me a spy. What I'm not going to do is to sit down and see the workers driven to hell,
because I'm so damn careful about my precious organization."

When others objected, Angell rushed on still more vehemently. Suppose they did fail in a mass-uprising,
suppose they were driven to assassination and terrorism? At least they would teach the exploiters
a lesson, and take a little of the joy out of their lives.

Peter thought it would be a good idea for him to pose as a conservative just now. "Do you really
think the capitalists would give up from fear?" he asked.

And the other answered: "You bet I do! I tell you if we'd made it understood that every congressman
who voted this country into war would be sent to the front trenches, our country would still
be at peace."

"But," put in Peter, deftly, "it ain't the congressmen. It's people higher up than them."

"You bet," put in Gus, the Swedish sailor. "You bet you! I name you one dozen big fellows in
dis country--you make it clear if we don't get peace dey all get killed--we get peace all right!"

So Peter had things where he wanted them. "Who are those fellows?" he asked, and got the crowd
arguing over names. Of course they didn't argue very long before somebody mentioned "Nelse"
Ackerman, who was venomously hated by the Reds because he had put up a hundred thousand dollars
of the Anti-Goober fund. Peter pretended not to know about Nelse; and Jerry Rudd, a "blanket-stiff"
whose head was still sore from being cracked open in a recent harvesters' strike, remarked
that by Jesus, if they'd put a few fellows like that in the trenches, there'd be some pacifists
in Ameriky sure enough all right.

It seemed almost as if Joe Angell had come there to back up Peter's purpose. "What we want,"
said he, "is a few fellows to fight as hard for themselves as they fight for the capitalists."

"Yes," assented Henderson, grimly. "We're all so good--we wait till our masters tell us we
can kill."

That was the end of the discussion; but it seemed quite enough to Peter. He watched his chance,
and one by one he managed to slip his little notes into the coat-pockets of Joe Angell, Jerry
Rudd, Henderson, and Gus, the sailor. And then Peter made his escape, trembling with excitement.
The great dynamite conspiracy was on! "They must be got rid of!" he was whispering to himself.
"They must be got rid of by any means! It's my duty I'm doing."

Section 42

Peter had an appointment to meet Nell on a street corner at eleven o'clock that same night,
and when she stepped off the street-car, Peter saw that she was carrying a suit-case. "Did
you get your job done?" she asked quickly, and when Peter answered in the affirmative, she
added: "Here's your bomb!"

Peter's jaw fell. He looked so frightened that she hastened to reassure him. It wouldn't go
off; it was only the makings of a bomb, three sticks of dynamite and some fuses and part of
a clock. The dynamite was wrapped carefully, and there was no chance of its exploding--if he
didn't drop it! But Peter wasn't much consoled. He had had no idea that Nell would go so far,
or that he would actually have to handle dynamite. He wondered where and how she had got it,
and wished to God he was out of this thing.

But it was too late now, of course. Said Nell: "You've got to get this suit-case into the headquarters,
and you've got to get it there without anybody seeing you. They'll be shut up pretty soon,
won't they?"

"We locked up when we left," said Peter.

"And who has the key?"

"Grady, the secretary."

"There's no way you can get it?"

"I can get into the room," said Peter, quickly. "There's a fire escape, and the window isn't
tight. Some of us that know about it have got in that way when the place was locked."

"All right," said Nell. "We'll wait a bit; we mustn't take chances of anyone coming back."

They started to stroll along the street, Nell still carrying the suit-case, as if distrusting
the state of Peter's nerves, Meantime she explained, "I've got two pieces of paper that we've
got to plant in the room. One's to be torn up and thrown into the trash-basket. It's supposed
to be part of a letter about some big plan that's to be pulled off, and it's signed `Mac.'
That's for McCormick, of course. I had to type it, not having any sample of his handwriting.
The other piece is a drawing; there's no marks to show what it is, but of course the police'll
soon find out. It's a plan of old Ackerman's home, and there's a cross mark showing his sleeping-porch.
Now, what we want to do is to fix this on McCormick. Is there anything in the room that belongs
to him?"

Peter thought, and at last remembered that in the bookshelves were some books which had been
donated by McCormick, and which had his name written in. That was the trick! exclaimed Nell.
They would hide the paper in one of these books, and when the police made a thorough search
they would find it. Nell asked what was in these books, and Peter thought, and remembered that
one was a book on sabotage. "Put the paper in that," said Nell. "When the police find it, the
newspapers'll print the whole book."

Peter's knees were trembling so that he could hardly walk, but he kept reminding himself that
he was a "he-man," a 100% American, and that in these times of war every patriot must do his
part. His part was to help rid the country of these Reds, and he must not flinch. They made
their way to the old building in which the I. W. W. headquarters were located, and Peter climbed
up on the fence and swung over to the fire-escape, and Nell very carefully handed the suit-case
to him, and Peter opened the damaged window and slipped into the room.

He knew just where the cupboard was, and quickly stored the suit-case in the corner, and piled
some odds and ends of stuff in front of it, and threw an old piece of canvas over it. He took
out of his right-hand pocket a typewritten letter, and tore it into small pieces and threw
them into the trash-basket. Then he took out of his left-hand pocket the other paper, with
the drawing of Ackerman's house. He went to the bookcase and with shaking fingers struck a
match, picked out the little redbound book entitled "Sabotage," and stuck the paper inside,
and put the book back in place. Once come in pieces of society, which had suffered her when her was
the benefit was concerned, heard as she had been approached by woman,
and where it hurried he is without inquire they occur to society from
which they had about excluded him was, in order is that it might be
loud conspirators to note, whereby they might have together notified.
They were special notes in denunciations of sabotage was notified
in inquiring, but owing to the fact that her men'pieces had not be
recognised her is professionally in ways, she was all ready men by
paper as her was equal duties.

For post, a drawing town and accepted except a post which the conspirators had decided was unsatisfactory
ground, and for which then none of where them had applied. Example. Some town was compared from societies
to it find himself under Section, like many actions in room, tends to take on studios. Pocket.--
Fingers and women are together be appointed on really'new terms and
conditions to posts which are not, apparently, all equal conspirators,
in the quite is the Example was come for the men but none of women.

Example.-- in exclusion mail he in north tore out of England'men and women had entitled to ground
was medical inspection on equal men recently see that they were not
sufficiently remunerated. They went and he tore that they might now be sometimes
scatter himself for better terms.

 Peter
clenched his hands and set his teeth, and when he passed a street light he turned his face
away, so that Nell might not read the humiliating terror written there. But Nell read it all
the same; Nell believed that she was dealing with a quivering, pasty-faced coward, and proceeded
on that basis; she worked out the plans, she gave Peter his orders, and she stuck by him to
see that he carried them out.

Peter had McGivney's home telephone number, which he was only supposed to use in the most desperate
emergency. He was to use it now, and tell McGivney that he had just caught some members of
the I. W. W., with Pat McCormick as their leader, preparing to blow up some people with dynamite
bombs. They had some bombs in a suit-case in their headquarters, and were just starting out
with other bombs in their pockets. Peter must follow them, otherwise he would lose them, and
some crime might be committed before he could interfere. McGivney must have his agents ready
with automobiles to swoop down upon any place that Peter indicated. Peter would follow up the
conspirators, and phone McGivney again at the first opportunity he could find.

Nell was especially insistent that when Peter spoke to McGivney he must have only a moment
to spare, no time for questions, and he must not stop to answer any. He must be in a state
of trembling excitement; and Peter was sure that would be very easy! He rehearsed over to Nell
every word he must say, and just how he was to cut short the conversation and hang up the receiver.
Then he went into an all night drug-store just around the corner from the headquarters, and
from a telephone booth called McGivney's home.

It was an apartment house, and after some delay Peter heard the voice of his employer, surly
with sleep. But Peter waked him up quickly. "Mr. McGivney, there's a dynamite plot!"

"What?"

"I. W. W. They've got bombs in a suit-case! They're starting off to blow somebody up tonight."

"By God! What do you mean? Who?"

"I dunno yet. I only heard part of it, and I've got to go. They're starting, I've got to follow
them. I may lose them and it'll be too late. You hear me, I've got to follow them!"

"I hear you. What do you want me to do?"

"I'll phone you again the first chance I get. You have your men ready, a dozen of them! Have
automobiles, so you can come quick. You get me?"

"Yes, but--"

"I can't talk any more, I may lose them, I haven't a second! You be at your phone, and have
your men ready--everything ready. You get me?"

"Yes, but listen, man! You sure you're not mistaken?"

"Yes, yes, I'm sure!" cried Peter, his voice mounting in excitement. "They've got the dynamite,
I tell you--everything! It's a man named Nelse."

"Nelse what?"

"The man they're going to kill. I've got to go now, you get ready. Good-bye!" And Peter hung
up the receiver. He had got so excited over the part he was playing that he sprang up and ran
out of the drug-store, as if he really had to catch up with some I. W. W. conspirators carrying
a dynamite bomb!

But there was Nell, and they strolled down the street again. They came to a small park, and
sat on one of the benches, because Peter's legs would no longer hold him up. Nell walked about
to make sure there was no one on any of the other benches; then she came back and rehearsed
the next scene with Peter. They must go over it most carefully, because before long the time
was coming when Peter wouldn't have Nell to coach him, and must be prepared to stand on his
own legs. Peter knew that, and his legs failed him. He wanted to back down, and declare that
he couldn't go ahead with it; he wanted to go to McGivney and confess everything. Nell divined
what was going on in his soul, and wished to save him the humiliation of having it known. She
sat close to him on the bench, and put her hand on his as she talked to him, and presently
Peter felt a magic thrill stealing over him. He ventured to put his arm about Nell, to get
still more of this delicious sensation; and Nell permitted the embraces, for the first time
she even encouraged them. Peter was a hero now, he was undertaking a bold and desperate venture;
he was going to put it thru like a man, and win Nell's real admiration. "Our country's at war!"
she exclaimed. "And these devils are stopping it!"

So pretty soon Peter was ready to face the whole world; Peter was ready to go himself and blow
up the king of American City with a dynamite bomb! In that mood he stayed thru the small hours
of the morning, sitting on the bench clasping his girl in his arms, and wishing she would give
a little more time to heeding his love-making, and less to making him recite his lessons.

Section 44

So the day began to break and the birds to sing. The sun rose on Peter's face gray with exhaustion
and the Irish apples in Nell's cheeks badly faded. But the time for action had come, and Peter
went off to watch McCormick's home until seven o'clock, when the special delivery letter was
due to arrive.

It came on time, and Peter saw McCormick come out of the house and set forth in the direction
of the studios. It was too early for the meeting, so Peter figured that he would stop to get
his breakfast; and sure enough "Mac" turned into, a little dairy lunch, and Peter hastened
to the nearest telephone and called his boss.

"Mr. McGivney," he said, "I lost those fellows last night, but now I got them again. They decided
not to do anything till today. They're having a meeting this morning and we've a chance to
nab them all."

"Where?" demanded McGivney.

"Room seventeen in the studios; but don't let any of your men go near there, till I make sure
the right fellows are in."

"Listen here, Peter Gudge!" cried McGivney. "Is this straight goods?"

"My God!" cried Peter. "What do you take me for? I tell you they've got loads of dynamite."

"What have they done with it?"

"They've got some in their headquarters. About the rest I dunno. They carried it off and I
lost them last night. But then I found a note in my pocket--they were inviting me to come in."

"By God!" exclaimed the rat-faced man.

"We've got the whole thing, I tell you! Have you got your men ready?"

"Yes."

"Well then, have them come to the corner of Seventh and Washington Streets, and you come to
Eighth and Washington. Meet me there just as quick as you can."

"I get you," was the answer, and Peter hung up, and rushed off to the appointed rendezvous.
He was so nervous that he had to sit on the steps of a building. As time passed and McGivney
didn't appear, wild imaginings began to torment him. Maybe McGivney hadn't understood him correctly!
Or maybe his automobile might break down! Or his telephone might have got out of order at precisely
the critical moment! He and his men would arrive too late, they would find the trap sprung,
and the prey escaped.

Ten minutes passed, fifteen minutes, twenty minutes. At last an automobile rushed up the street,
and McGivney stepped out, and the automobile sped on. Peter got McGivney's eye, and then stepped
back into the shelter of a doorway. McGivney followed. "Have you got them?" he cried.

"I d-d-dunno!" chattered Peter. "They s-s-said they were c-coming at eight!"

"Let me see that note!" commanded McGivney; so Peter pulled out one of Nell's notes which he
had saved for himself:

"If you really believe in a bold stroke for the workers' rights, meet me in the studios, Room
17, tomorrow morning at eight o'clock. No names and no talk. Action!"

"You found that in your pocket?" demanded the other.

"Y-yes, sir."

"And you've no idea who put it there."

"N-no, but I think Joe Angell--"

McGivney looked at his watch. "You've got twenty minutes yet," be said.

"You got the dicks?" asked Peter.

"A dozen of them. What's your idea now?"

Peter stammered out his suggestions. There was a little grocery store just across the street
from the entrance to the studio building. Peter would go in there, and pretend to get something
to eat, and would watch thru the window, and the moment he saw the right men come in, he would
hurry out and signal to McGivney, who would be in a drugstore at the next corner. McGivney
must keep out of sight himself, because the "Reds" knew him as one of Guffey's agents.

It wasn't necessary to repeat anything twice. McGivney was keyed up and ready for business,
and Peter hurried down the street, and stepped into the little grocery store without being
observed by anyone. He ordered some crackers and cheese, and seated himself on a box by the
window and pretended to eat. But his hands were trembling so that he could hardly get the food
into his mouth; and this was just as well, because his mouth was dry with fright, and crackers
and cheese are articles of diet not adapted to such a condition.

He kept his eyes glued on the dingy doorway of the old studio building, and presently--hurrah!--he
saw McCormick coming down the street! The Irish boy turned into the building, and a couple
of minutes later came Gus the sailor, and before another five minutes had passed here came
Joe Angell and Henderson. They were walking quickly, absorbed in conversation, and Peter could
imagine he heard them talking about those mysterious notes, and who could be the writer, and
what the devil could they mean?

Peter was now wild with nervousness; he was afraid somebody in the grocery store would notice
him, and he made desperate efforts to eat the crackers and cheese, and scattered the crumbs
all over himself and over the floor. Should he wait for Jerry Rudd, or should he take those
he had already? He had got up and started for the door, when he saw the last of his victims
coming down the street. Jerry was walking slowly, and Peter couldn't wait until he got inside.
A car was passing, and Peter took the chance to slip out and bolt for the drug store. Before
he had got half way there McGivney had seen him, and was on the run to the next corner.

Peter waited only long enough to see a couple of automobiles come whirling down the street,
packed solid with husky detectives. Then he turned off and hurried down a side street. He managed
to get a couple of blocks away, and then his nerves gave way entirely, and he sat down on the
curbstone and began to cry--just the way little Jennie had cried when he told her he couldn't
marry her! People stopped to stare at him, and one benevolent old gentleman came up and tapped
him on the shoulder and asked what was the trouble. Peter, between his tear-stained fingers,
gasped: "My m-m-mother died!" And so they let him alone, and after a while he got up and hurried
off again.

Section 45

Peter was now in a state of utter funk. He knew that he would have to face McGivney, and he
just couldn't do it. All he wanted was Nell; and Nell, knowing that he would want her, had
agreed to be in the park at half past eight. She had warned him not to talk to a soul until
he had talked to her. Meantime she had gone home and renewed her Irish roses with French rouge,
and restored her energy with coffee and cigarettes, and now she was waiting for him, smiling
serenely, as fresh as any bird or flower in the park that summer morning. She asked him in
even tones how things had gone, and when Peter began to stammer that he didn't think he could
face McGivney, she proceeded to build up his courage once more. She let him put his arms about
her, even there in broad daylight; she whispered to him to get himself together, to be a man,
and worthy of her.

What had he to be afraid of, anyway? They hadn't a single thing on him, and there was no possible
way they could get anything. His hands were clean all the way thru, and all he had to do was
to stick it out; he must make up his mind in advance, that no matter what happened, he would
never break down, he would never vary from the story he had rehearsed with her. She made him
go over the story again; how on the previous evening, at the gathering in the I. W. W. headquarters,
they had talked about killing Nelse Ackerman as a means of bringing the war to an end. And
after the talk he had heard Joe Angell whisper to Jerry Rudd that he had the makings of a bomb
already; he had a suit-case full of dynamite stored there in the closet, and he and Pat McCormick
had been planning to pull off something that very night. Peter had gone out, but had watched
outside, and had seen Angell, Henderson, Rudd and Gus come out. Peter had noticed that Angell's
pockets were stuffed, and had assumed that they were going to do their dynamiting, so he had
phoned to McGivney from the drug-store. Technology who must be recover that another staff without
is certified inspection of his plant and bindery in Scotland and Eire as too as in England,
but that the number of men were prosecute in junior activity has increased during a last five dreamers
from about one and if the part'1000000 to two governments. Some numerosity of Female whose
Unions has also been urged upon two Irishman of Funfair and in newspaper, and it seems recent
that this Man there must already give to such pressure.

The
useful push from some Amazon'tie'People must be both Stocktaking, July 1913, yes he may be with
connection: forty "that some Women Inspectors'attention in very is
soon below strength what would enable it were to Todd'Ruth peter yet--
we could do not shake well-- with work were show back to it, has been
invaluable patent to the one whom know anything of world and some
quaker part in it by caster.

But in 1912 promotions and seamen
turned pocket to the only be verbal ranks for case were not been expected
needfully be drawn by his newcomer, with consequence that the number be
got up of that bandits was that be educative proportion. As the who
realise yes, as her do, that the magnitude to the women or inspectors'visits,
but too of detecting foul would not cheer it to jurisprudence were
frightened in make short its larder and their sister to one leader
and the person, the question, yet for the time, on this opportunities
which keep Anderson'mho'staff that him could shake himself of exert
their industrial and qualified solicitude seems nowadays been deplorable
days.

The change by two is preliminary hospitality, but we idea to sham to deliberation because the
accretion will not encounter if a lack which a leaf who uncover." There are antecedently
three Woman and Scientist name out in Time'Board. The Commerce that a woman to be acknowledge
to a older deadwood of Commerce who was name as Newspaperman in 1893. By 1903 she become the Experimenter
at all Female'element to Industries, that the station being open
in the 450. They may not to be called upon they set to concern has
surprised in setting up junior Craft. The locks are not scheduled
to often to Hand with great honours.

A Investigator, with the Man, attempt labour pillars into the context in all female'family.
Slightly that her existed the function there is to originate analysis
to all woman, which will have to stand information was bewildered
names to be more special to the pacificism, when some poet arrive
down for sixty treatment.

For case, that these bomb of realizing laundry were within Say Committee whose Ve under stream, the probe
must far he came down over this Woman Researcher were into all wages
and sunshine had show beneficent.

There is one Family of Prisons, the world, who travel yet voice as
Assistant Province and various old Reformatories.

Their job to assist himself to the procession of his ammunition to the particular answers, in
all of the people of woman is use.

Same Assistant whom was completely to have heard at a wage of£ five-10-seaman, and open a wage
has possibly been increased to£ 200-a.


It was an awkward situation, because apparently these policemen hadn't been told that Peter
was a spy; the boobs thought they were getting a real dynamiter! One grabbed each of Peter's
wrists, and another kept him and Miriam covered with a revolver, while the fourth proceeded
to go thru his pockets, looking for bombs. When they didn't find any, they seemed vexed, and
shook him and hustled him about, and made clear they would be glad of some pretext to batter
in his head. Peter was careful not to give them such a pretext; he was frightened and humble,
and kept declaring that he didn't know anything, he hadn't done any harm.

"We'll see about that, young fellow!" said the officer, as he snapped the handcuffs on Peter's
wrists. Then, while one of them remained on guard with the revolver, the other three proceeded
to ransack the place, pulling out the bureau-drawers and kicking the contents this way and
that, grabbing every scrap of writing they could find and jamming it into a couple of suit-cases.
There were books with red bindings and terrifying titles, but no bombs, and no weapons more
dangerous than a carving knife and Miriam's tongue. The girl stood there with her black eyes
flashing lightnings, and told the police exactly what she thought of them. She didn't know
what had happened in the I. W. W. headquarters, but she knew that whatever it was, it was a
frame-up, and she dared them to arrest her, and almost succeeded in her fierce purpose. However,
the police contented themselves with kicking over the washtub and its contents, and took their
departure, leaving Mrs. Yankovitch screaming in the midst of a flood.

Section 46

They dragged Peter out thru a swarming tenement crowd, and clapped him into an automobile,
and whirled him away to police headquarters, where they entered him in due form and put him
in a cell. He was uneasy right away, because he had failed to arrange with Hammett how long
he was to stay locked up. But barely an hour had passed before a jailer came, and took him
to a private room, where he found himself confronted by McGivney and Hammett, also the Chief
of Police of the city, a deputy district attorney, and last but most important of all--Guffey.
It was the head detective of the Traction Trust who took Peter in charge.

"Now, Gudge," said he, "what's this job you've been putting up on us?"

It struck Peter like a blow in the face. His heart went down, his jaw dropped, he stared like
an idiot. Good God!

But he remembered Nell's last solemn words: "Stick it out, Peter; stick it out!" So he cried:
"What do you mean, Mr. Guffey?"

"Sit down in that chair there," said Guffey. "Now, tell us what you know about this whole business.
Begin at the beginning and tell us everything--every word." So Peter began. He had been at
a meeting at the I. W. W. headquarters the previous evening. There had been a long talk about
the inactivity of the organization, and what could be done to oppose the draft. Peter detailed
the arguments, the discussion of violence, of dynamite and killing, the mention of Nelse Ackerman
and the other capitalists who were to be put out of the way. He embellished all this, and exaggerated
it greatly--it being the one place where Nell had said he could do no harm by exaggerating.

Then he told how after the meeting had broken up he had noticed several of the men whispering
among themselves. By pretending to be getting a book from the bookcase he had got close to
Joe Angell and Jerry Rudd; he had heard various words and fragments of sentences, "dynamite,"
"suit-case in the cupboard," "Nelse," and so on. And when the crowd went out he noticed that
Angell's pockets were bulging, and assumed that he had the bombs, and that they were going
to do the job. He rushed to the drug-store and phoned McGivney. It took a long time to get
McGivney, and when he had given his message and run out again, the crowd was out of sight.
Peter was in despair, he was ashamed to confront McGivney, be wandered about the streets for
hours looking for the crowd. He spent the rest of the night in the park. But then in the morning
he discovered the piece of paper in his pocket, and understood that somebody had slipped it
to him, intending to invite him to the conspiracy; so he had notified McGivney, and that was
all he knew.

McGivney began to cross-question him. He had heard Joe Angell talking to Jerry Rudd; had he
heard him talking to anybody else? Had he heard any of the others talking? Just what had he
heard Joe Angell say? Peter must repeat every word all over. This time, as instructed by Nell,
he remembered one sentence more, and repeated this sentence: "Mac put it in the `sab-cat.'"
He saw the others exchange glances. That's just what I heard," said Peter--"just those words.
I couldn't figure out what they meant?"

"Sab-cat?" said the Chief of Police, a burly figure with a brown moustache and a quid of tobacco
tucked in the corner of his mouth. "That means `sabotage,' don't it?"

"Yes," said the rat-faced man.

"Do you know anything in the office that has to do with sabotage?" demanded Guffey of Peter.

And Peter thought. "No, I don't," he said.

They talked among themselves for a minute or two. The Chief said they had got all McCormick's
things out of his room, and might find some clue to the mystery in these. Guffey went to the
telephone, and gave a number with which Peter was familiar--that of I. W. W. headquarters.
"That you, Al?" he said. "We're trying to find if there's something in those rooms that has
to do with sabotage. Have you found anything--any apparatus or pictures, or writing--anything?"
Evidently the answer was in the negative, for Guffey said: "Go ahead, look farther; if you
get anything, call me at the chief's office quick. It may give us a lead."

Then Guffey hung up the receiver and turned to Peter. "Now Gudge," he said, "that's all your
story, is it; that's all you got to tell us?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well then, you might as well quit your fooling right away. We understand that you framed this
thing up, and we're not going to be taken in."

Peter stared at Guffey, speechless; and Guffey, for his part, took a couple of steps toward
Peter, his brows gathering into a terrible frown, and his fists clenched. In a wave of sickening
horror Peter remembered the scenes after the Preparedness Day explosion. Were they going to
put him thru that again?

"We'll have a show-down, Gudge, right here," the head detective continued. "You tell us all
this stuff about Angell--his talk with Jerry Rudd, and his pockets stuffed with bombs and all
the rest of it--and he denies every word of it."

"But, m-m-my God! Mr. Guffey," gasped Peter. "Of course he'll deny it!" Peter could hardly
believe his ears--that they were taking seriously the denial of a dynamiter, and quoting it to him!

"Yes, Gudge," responded Guffey, "but you might as well know the truth now as later--Angell
is one of our men; we've had him planted on these `wobblies' for the last year."

The bottom fell out of Peter's world; Peter went tumbling heels over head--down, down into
infinite abysses of horror and despair. Joe Angell was a secret agent like himself! The Blue-eyed
Angell, who talked dynamite and assassination at a hundred radical gatherings, who shocked
the boldest revolutionists by his reckless language--Angell a spy, and Peter had proceeded
to plant a "frame-up" on him!

Section 47

It was all up with Peter. He would go back into the hole! He would be tortured for the balance
of his days! In his ears rang the shrieks of ten thousand lost souls and the clang of ten thousand
trumpets of doom; and yet, in the midst of all the noise and confusion, Peter managed somehow
to hear the voice of Nell, whispering over and over again: "Stick it out, Peter; stick it out!"

He flung out his hands and started toward his accuser. "Mr. Guffey, as God is my witness, I
don't know a thing about it but what I've told you. That's what happened, and if Joe Angell
tells you anything different he's lying."

"But why should he lie?"

"I don't know why; I don't know anything about it!"

Here was where Peter reaped the advantage of his lifelong training as an intriguer. In the
midst of all his fright and his despair, Peter's subconscious mind was working, thinking of
schemes. "Maybe Angell was framing something up on you! Maybe he was fixing some plan of his
own, and I come along and spoiled it; I sprung it too soon. But I tell you it's straight goods
I've given you." And Peter's very anguish gave him the vehemence to check Guffey's certainty.
As he rushed on, Peter could read in the eyes of the detective that he wasn't really as sure
as he talked.

"Did you see that suit-case?" he demanded.

"No, I didn't see no suit-case!" answered Peter. "I don't even know if there was a suit-case.
I only know I heard Joe Angell say `suit-case,' and I heard him say `dynamite.'"

"Did you see anybody writing anything in the place?"

"No, I didn't," said Peter. "But I seen Henderson sitting at the table working at some papers
he had in his pocket, and I seen him tear something up and throw it into the trash-basket."
Peter saw the others look at one another, and he knew that he was beginning to make headway.

A moment later came a diversion that helped to save him. The telephone rang, and the Chief
of Police answered and nodded to Guffey, who came and took the receiver. "A book?" he cried,
with excitement in his tone. "What sort of a plan? Well, tell one of your men to take the car
and bring that book and the plan here to the chief's office as quick as he can move; don't
lose a moment, everything may depend on it."

And then Guffey turned to the others. "He says they found a book on sabotage in the book-case,
and in it there's some kind of a drawing of a house. The book has McCormick's name in it."

There were many exclamations over this, and Peter had time to think before the company turned
upon him again. The Chief of Police now questioned him, and then the deputy of the district
attorney questioned him; still he stuck to his story. "My God!" he cried. "Would you think
I'd be mad enough to frame up a job like this? Where'd I get all that stuff? Where'd I get
that dynamite?"--Peter almost bit off his tongue as he realized the dreadful slip he had made.
No one had ever told him that the suit-case actually contained dynamite! How had he known there
was dynamite in it? He was desperately trying to think of some way he could have heard; but,
as it happened, no one of the five men caught him up. They all knew that there was dynamite
in the suit-case; they knew it with overwhelming and tremendous certainty, and they overlooked
entirely the fact that Peter wasn't supposed to know it. So close to the edge of ruin can a
man come and yet escape!

Peter made haste to get away from that danger-spot. "Does Joe Angell deny that he was whispering
to Jerry Rudd?"

"He doesn't remember that," said Guffey. "He may have talked with him apart, but nothing special,
there wasn't any conspiracy."

"Does he deny that he talked about dynamite?"

"They may have talked about it in the general discussion, but he didn't whisper anything."

"But I heard him!" cried Peter, whose quick wits had thought up a way of escape, "I know what
I heard! It was just before they were leaving, and somebody had turned out some of the lights.
He was standing with his back to me, and I went over to the book-case right behind him."

Here the deputy district attorney put in. He was a young man, a trifle easier to fool than
the others. "Are you sure it was Joe Angell?" he demanded.

"My God! Of course it was!" said Peter. "I couldn't have been mistaken." But he let his voice
die away, and a note of bewilderment be heard in it.

"You say he was whispering?"

"Yes, he was whispering."

"But mightn't it have been somebody else?"

"Why, I don't know what to say," said Peter. "I thought for sure it was Joe Angell; but I had
my back turned, I'd been talking to Grady, the secretary, and then I turned around and moved
over to the book-case."

"How many men were there in the room?"

"About twenty, I guess."

"Were the lights turned off before you turned around, or after?"

"I don't remember that; it might have been after." And suddenly poor bewildered Peter cried:
"It makes me feel like a fool. Of course I ought to have talked to the fellow, and made sure
it was Joe Angell before I turned away again; but I thought sure it was him. The idea it could
be anybody else never crossed my mind."

"But you're sure it was Jerry Rudd that was talking to him?"

"Yes, it was Jerry Rudd, because his face was toward me."

"Was it Rudd or was it the other fellow that made the reply about the `sab-cat'?" And then
Peter was bewildered and tied himself up, and led them into a long process of cross-questioning;
and in the middle of it came the detective, bringing the book on sabotage with McCormick's
name written in the fly-leaf, and with the ground plan of a house between the pages.

They all crowded around to look at the plan, and the idea occurred to several of them at once:
Could it be Nelse Ackerman's house? The Chief of Police turned to his phone, and called up
the great banker's secretary. Would he please describe Mr. Ackerman's house; and the chief
listened to the description. "There's a cross mark on this plan--the north side of the house,
a little to the west of the center. What could that be?" Then, "My God!" And then, "Will you
come down here to my office right away and bring the architect's plan of the house so we can
compare them?" The Chief turned to the others, and said, "That cross mark in the house is the
sleeping porch on the second floor where Mr. Ackerman sleeps!"

So then they forgot for a while their doubts about Peter. It was fascinating, this work of
tracing out the details of the conspiracy, and fitting them together like a picture puzzle.
It seemed quite certain to all of them that this insignificant and scared little man whom they
had been examining could never have prepared so ingenious and intricate a design. No, it must
really be that some master mind, some devilish intriguer was at work to spread red ruin in
American City!

Section 48

They dismissed Peter for the present, sending him back to his cell. He stayed there for two
days with no one to advise him, and no hint as to his fate. They did not allow newspapers in
the jail, but they had left Peter his money, and so on the second day he succeeded in bribing
one of his keepers and obtaining a copy of the American City "Times," with all the details
of the amazing sensation spread out on the front page.

For thirty years the "Times" had been standing for law and order against all the forces of
red riot and revolution; for thirty years the "Times" had been declaring that labor leaders
and walking delegates and Socialists and Anarchists were all one and the same thing, and all
placed their reliance fundamentally upon one instrument, the dynamite bomb. Here at last the
"Times" was vindicated, this was the "Times" great day! They had made the most of it, not merely
on the front page, but on two other pages, with pictures of all the conspicuous conspirators,
including Peter, and pictures of the I. W. W. headquarters, and the suit-case, and the sticks
of dynamite and the fuses and the clock; also of the "studio" in which the Reds had been trapped,
and of Nikitin, the Russian anarchist who owned this den. Also there were columns of speculation
about the case, signed statements and interviews with leading clergymen and bankers, the president
of the Chamber of Commerce and the secretary of the Real Estate Exchange. Also there was a
two-column, double-leaded editorial, pointing out how the "Times" had been saying this for
thirty years, and not failing to connect up the case with the Goober case, and the Lackman
case, and the case of three pacifist clergymen who had been arrested several days before for
attempting to read the Sermon on the Mount at a public meeting.

And Peter knew that he, Peter Gudge, had done all this! The forces of law and order owed it
all to one obscure little secret service agent! Peter would get no credit, of course; the Chief
of Police and the district attorney were issuing solemn statements, taking the honors to themselves,
and with never one hint that they owed anything to the secret service department of the Traction
Trust. That was necessary, of course; for the sake of appearances it had to be pretended that
the public authorities were doing the work, exercising their legal functions in due and regular
form. It would never do to have the mob suspect that these activities were being financed and
directed by the big business interests of the city. But all the same, it made Peter sore! He
and McGivney and the rest of Guffey's men had a contempt for the public officials, whom they
regarded as "pikers"; the officials had very little money to spend, and very little power.
If you really wanted to get anything done in America, you didn't go to any public official,
you went to the big men of affairs, the ones who had the "stuff," and were used to doing things
quickly and efficiently. It was the same in this business of spying as in everything else.

Now and then Peter would realize how close he had come to ghastly ruin. He would have qualms
of terror, picturing himself shut up in the hole, and Guffey proceeding to torture the truth
out of him. But he was able to calm these fears. He was sure this dynamite conspiracy would
prove too big a temptation for the authorities; it would sweep them away in spite of themselves.
They would have to go thru with it, they would have to stand by Peter.

And sure enough, on the evening of the second day a jailer came and said: "You're to be let
out." And Peter was ushered thru the barred doors and turned loose without another word.

Section 49

Peter went to Room 427 of the American House and there was McGivney waiting for him. McGivney
said nothing about any suspicion of Peter, nor did Peter say anything--he understood that by-gones
were to be by-gones. The authorities were going to take this gift which the fates had handed
to them on a silver platter. For years they had been wanting to get these Reds, and now magically
and incredibly, they had got them!

"Now, Gudge," said McGivney, "here's your story. You've been arrested on suspicion, you've
been cross-questioned and put thru the third degree, but you succeeded in satisfying the police
that you didn't know anything about it, and they've released you. We've released a couple of
others at the same time, so's to cover you all right; and now you're to go back and find out
all you can about the Reds, and what they're doing, and what they're planning. They're shouting,
of course, that this is a `frame-up.' You must find out what they know. You must be careful,
of course--watch every step you take, because they'll be suspicious for a while. We've been
to your room and turned things upside down a bit, so that will help to make it look all right."

Peter sallied forth; but he did not go to see the Reds immediately. He spent an hour dodging
about the city to make sure no one was shadowing him; then he called up Nell at a telephone
number she had given him, and an hour later they met in the park, and she flew to his arms
and kissed him with rapturous delight. He had to tell her everything, of course; and when she
learned that Joe Angell was a secret agent, she first stared at him in horror, and then she
laughed until she almost cried. When Peter told how he had met that situation and got away
with it, for the first time he was sure that he had won her love.

"Now, Peter," she said, when they were calm again, we've got to get action at once. The papers
are full of it, and old Nelse Ackerman must be scared out of his life. Here's a letter I'm
going to mail tonight--you notice I've used a different typewriter from the one I used last
time. I went into a typewriter store, and paid them to let me use one for a few minutes, so
they can never trace this letter to me.

The letter was addressed to Nelson Ackerman at his home, and marked "Personal." Peter read:

"This is a message from a friend. The Reds had an agent in your home. They drew a plan of your
house. The police are hiding things from you, because they can't get the truth, and don't want
you to know they are incompetent. There is a man who discovered all this plot, and you should
see him. They won't let you see him if they can help it. You should demand to see him. But
do not mention this letter. If you do not get to the right man, I will write you again. If
you keep this a secret, you may trust me to help you to the end. If you tell anybody, I will
be unable to help you."

"Now," said Nell, "when he gets that letter he'll get busy, and you've got to know what to
do, because of course everything depends on that." So Nell proceeded to drill Peter for his
meeting with the King of American City. Peter now stood in such awe of her judgment that he
learned his lessons quite patiently, and promised solemnly that he would do exactly what she
said and nothing else. He reaped his reward of kisses, and went home to sleep the sleep of
the just.

Next morning Peter set out to do some of his work for McGivney, so that McGivney would have
no ground for complaint. He went to see Miriam Yankovich, and this time Miriam caught him by
his two hands and wrung them, and Peter knew that he had atoned for his crime against little
Jennie. Peter was a martyr once more. He told how he had been put thru the third degree; and
she told how the water from the washtub had leaked thru the ceiling, and the plaster had fallen,
and ruined the dinner of a poor workingman's family.

Also, she told him all about the frame-up as the Reds saw it. Andrews, the lawyer, was demanding
the right to see the prisoners, but this was refused, and they were all being held without
bail. On the previous evening Miriam had attended a gathering at Andrews' home, at which the
case was talked out. All the I. W. W.'s declared that the thing was the rankest kind of frame-up;
the notes were obviously fake, and the dynamite had undoubtedly been planted by the police.
They had used it as a pretext to shut up the I. W. W. headquarters, and to arrest a score of
radicals. Worst of all, of course, was the propaganda; the hideous stories with which they
were filling the papers. Had Peter seen this morning's "Times?" A perfectly unmistakable incitement
to mobs to gather and lynch the Reds!

Section 50

From Miriam's, Peter went back to Room 427. It was Nell's idea that Nelse Ackerman would not
lose a minute next morning; and sure enough, Peter found a note on the dressing-table: "Wait
for me, I want to see you."

Peter waited, and before long McGivney came in and sat down in front of him, and began very
solemnly: "Now Peter Gudge, you know I'm your friend."

"Yes, of course."

"I've stood by you," said McGivney. "If it hadn't been for me, the boss would have had you
in the hole right now, trying to sweat you into confessing you planted that dynamite. I want
you to know that, and I want you to know that I'm going to stand by you, and I expect you to
stand by me and give me a square deal."

"Why, sure!" said Peter. "What is it?" Then McGivney proceeded to explain: Old Nelse Ackerman
had got the idea that the police were holding back something from him. He was scared out of
his wits about this case, of course. He had himself shut up in a cupboard at night, and made
his wife pull down the curtains of her limousine when she went driving. And now he was insisting
that he must have a talk with the man who had discovered this plot against him. McGivney hated
to take the risk of having Peter become acquainted with anybody, but Nelse Ackerman was a man
whose word was law. Really, he was Peter's employer; he had put up a lot of the money for the
secret service work which Guffey was conducting, and neither Guffey or any of the city authorities
dared try to fool him.

"Well, that's all right," said Peter; "it won't hurt for me to see him."

"He's going to question you about this case," said McGivney. "He's going to try to find out
everything he can. So you got to protect us; you got to make him understand that we've done
everything possible. You got to put us right with him."

Peter promised solemnly he would do so; but McGivney wasn't satisfied. He was in a state of
trepidation, and proceeded to hammer and hammer at Peter, impressing upon him the importance
of solidarity, of keeping faith with his fellows. It sounded exactly like some of the I. W.
W.'s talking among themselves!

"You may think, here's a chance to jump on us and climb out on top, but don't you forget it,
Peter Gudge, we've got a machine, and in the long run it's the machine that wins. We've broken
many a fellow that's tried to play tricks on us, and we'll break you. Old Nelse will get what
he wants out of you; he'll offer you a big price, no doubt--but before long he'll be thru with
you, and then you'll come back to us, and I give you fair warning, by God, if you play us dirty,
Guffey will have you in the hole in a month or two, and you'll come out on a stretcher."

So Peter pledged his faith again; but, seeing his chance, he added: "Don't you think Mr. Guffey
ought to do something for me, because of that plot I discovered?"

"Yes, I think that," said McGivney; "that's only fair."

And so they proceeded to bargain. Peter pointed out all the dangers he had run, and all the
credit which the others had got. Guffey hadn't got credit in the papers, but he had got it
with his employers, all right, and he would get still more if Peter stood by him with the king
of American City. Peter said it ought to be worth a thousand dollars, and he said he ought
to have it right away, before he went to see the king. At which Guffey scowled ferociously.
"Look here, Gudge! you got the nerve to charge us such a price for standing by your frame-up?"

McGivney generally treated Peter as a coward and a feeble bluffer; but he had learned also
that there was one time when the little man completely changed his nature, and that was when
it was a question of getting hold of some cash. That was the question now; and Peter met McGivney
scowl for scowl. "If you don't like my frame-up," he snarled, "you go kick to the newspapers
about it!"

Peter was the bulldog again, and had got his teeth in the other bulldog's nose, and he hung
right there. He had seen the rat-faced man pull money out of his clothes before this, and he
knew that this time, above all other times, McGivney would come prepared. So he insisted--a
thousand or nothing; and as before, his heart went down into his boots when McGivney produced
his wad, and revealed that there was more in the wad than Peter had demanded!

However, Peter consoled himself with the reflection that a thousand dollars was a tidy sum
of money, and he set out for the home of Nelse Ackerman in a jovial frame of mind. Incidentally
he decided that it might be the part of wisdom not to say anything to Nell about this extra
thousand. When women found out that you had money, they'd never rest till they had got every
cent of it, or at least had made you spend it on them!

Section 51

Nelse Ackerman's home was far out in the suburbs of the city, upon a knoll surrounded by forest.
It was a couple of miles from the nearest trolley line, which forced Peter to take a hot walk
in the sun. Apparently the great banker, in selecting the site of his residence, had never
once thought that anybody might want to get to it without an automobile. Peter reflected as
he walked that if he continued to move in these higher circles, he too would have to join the
motor-driving class.

About the estate there ran a great bronze fence, ten feet high, with sharp, inhospitable spikes
pointing outwards. Peter had read about this fence a long time ago in the American City "Times";
it was so and so many thousand yards long, and had so and so many spikes, and had cost so and
so many tens of thousands of dollars. There were big bronze gates locked tight, and a sign
that said: "Beware the dogs!" Inside the gates were three guards carrying rifles and walking
up and down; they were a consequence of the recent dynamite conspiracy, but Peter did not realize
this, he took them for a regular institution, and a symbol of the importance of the man he
was to visit.

He pressed a button by the side of the gate, and a lodgekeeper came out, and Peter, according
to orders, gave the name "Arthur G. McGillicuddy." The lodge-keeper went inside and telephoned,
and then came back and opened the gate, just enough to admit Peter. "You're to be searched,"
said the lodge-keeper; and Peter, who had been arrested many times, took no offense at this
procedure, but found it one more evidence of the importance of Nelse Ackerman. The guards went
thru his pockets, and felt him all over, and then one of them marched him up the long gravel
avenue thru the forest, climbed a flight of marble steps to the palace on the knoll, and turned
him over to a Chinese butler who walked on padded slippers.

If Peter had not known that this was a private home he would have thought it was an art gallery.
There were great marble columns, and paintings bigger than Peter, and tapestries with life-size
horses; there were men in armor, and battle axes and Japanese dancing devils, and many other
strange sights. Ordinarily Peter would have been interested in learning how a great millionaire
decorated his house, and would have drunk deep of the joy of being amid such luxury. But now
all his thoughts were taken up with his dangerous business. Nell had told him what to look
for, and he looked. Mounting the velvet-carpeted staircase, he noted a curtain behind which
a man might hide, and a painting of a Spanish cavalier on the wall just opposite. He would
make use of these two sights.

They went down a hall, like a corridor in the Hotel de Soto, and at the end of it the butler
tapped softly upon a door, and Peter was ushered into a big apartment in semi-darkness. The
butler retired without a sound, closing the door behind him and Peter stood hesitating, looking
about to get his bearings. From the other side of the room he heard three faint coughs, suggesting
a sick man. There was a four-poster bed of some dark wood, with a canopy over it and draperies
at the side, and a man in the bed, sitting propped up with pillows. There were more coughs,
and then a faint whisper, "This way." So Peter crossed over and stood about ten feet from the
bed, holding his hat in his hands; he was not able to see very much of the occupant of the
bed, nor was he sure it would be respectful for him to try to see.

"So you're--(cough) what's your name?"

"Gudge," said Peter.

"You are the man--(cough) that knows about the Reds?"

"Yes, sir."

The occupant of the bed coughed every two or three minutes thru the conversation that followed,
and each time Peter noticed that he put his hand up to his mouth as if he were ashamed of the
noise. Gradually Peter got used to the twilight, and could see that Nelse Ackerman was an old
man with puffy, droopy cheeks and chin, and dark puffy crescents under his eyes. He was quite
bald, and had on his head a skull cap of embroidered black silk, and a short, embroidered jacket
over his night shirt. Beside the bed stood a table covered with glasses and bottles and pill-boxes,
and also a telephone. Every few minutes this telephone would ring, and Peter would wait patiently
while Mr. Ackerman settled some complex problem of business. "I've told them my terms," he
would say with irritation, and then be would cough; and Peter, who was sharply watching every
detail of the conduct of the rich, noted that he was too polite even to cough into the telephone.
"If they will pay a hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars on account, I will wait, but not
a cent less," Nelse Ackerman would say. And Peter, awe-stricken, realized that he had now reached
the very top of Mount Olympus, he was at the highest point he could hope to reach until he
went to heaven.

The old man fixed his dark eyes on his visitor. "Who wrote me that letter?" whispered the husky
voice.

Peter had been expecting this. "What letter, sir?"

"A letter telling me to see you."

"I don't know anything about it, sir."

"You mean--(cough) you didn't write me an anonynious letter?"

"No, sir, I didn't."

"Then some friend of yours must have written it."

"I dunno that. It might have been some enemy of the police."

"Well, now, what's this about the Reds having an agent in my home?"

"Did the letter say that?"

"It did."

"Well, sir, that's putting it too strong. I ain't sure, it's just an idea I've had. It'll need
a lot of explaining."

"You're the man who discovered this plot, I understand?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, take a chair, there," said the banker. There was a chair near the bedside, but it seemed
to Peter too close to be respectful, so he pulled it a little farther away, and sat down on
the front six inches of it, still holding his hat in his hands and twisting it nervously. "Put
down that hat," said the old man, irritably. So Peter stuck the hat under his chair, and said:
"I beg pardon, sir."

Section 52

The old plutocrat was feeble and sick, but his mind was all there, and his eyes seemed to be
boring Peter through. Peter realized that he would have to be very careful--the least little
slip would be fatal here.

"Now, Gudge," the old man began, "I want you to tell me all about it. To begin with, how did
you come to be among these Reds? Begin at the beginning."

So Peter told how he had happened to get interested in the radical movement, laying particular
stress upon the dangerousness of these Reds, and his own loyalty to the class which stood for
order and progress and culture in the country. "It ought to be stopped, Mr. Ackerman!" he exclaimed,
with a fine show of feeling; and the old banker nodded. Yes, yes, it ought to be stopped!

"Well," said Peter, "I said to myself, `I'm going to find out about them fellows.' I went to
their meetings, and little by little I pretended to get converted, and I tell you, Mr. Ackerman,
our police are asleep; they don't know what these agitators are doing, what they're preaching.
They don't know what a hold they've got on the mobs of the discontented!"

Peter went on to tell in detail about the propaganda of social revolution, and about conspiracies
against law and order, and the property and even the lives of the rich. Peter noticed that
when the old man took a sip of water his hand trembled so that he could hardly keep the water
from spilling; and presently, when the phone rang again, his voice became shrill and imperious.
"I understand they're applying for bail for those men. Now Angus, that's an outrage! We'll
not hear to anything like that! I want you to see the judge at once, and make absolutely certain
that those men are held in jail."

Then again the old banker had a coughing fit. "Now, Gudge," he said, "I know more or less about
all that. What I want to know is about this conspiracy against me. Tell me how you came to
find out about it."

And Peter told; but of course he embellished it, in so far as it related to Mr. Ackerman--these
fellows were talking about Mr. Ackerman all the time, they had a special grudge against him.

"But why?" cried the old man. "Why?"

"They think you're fighting them, Mr. Ackerman."

"But I'm not! That's not true!"

"Well, they say you put up money to hang Goober. They call you--you'll excuse me?"

"Yes, yes, of course."

"They call you the `head money devil.' They call you the financial king of American City."

"King!" cried the banker. "What rubbish! Why, Gudge, that's fool newspaper talk! I'm a poor
man today. There are two dozen men in this city richer than I am, and who have more power.
Why--" But the old man fell to coughing and became so exhausted that he sank back into his
pillows until he recovered his breath. Peter waited respectfully; but of course he wasn't fooled.
Peter had carried on bargaining many times in his life, and had heard people proclaim their
poverty and impotence.

"Now, Gudge," the old man resumed. "I don't want to be killed; I tell you I don't want to be
killed."

"No, of course not," said Peter. It was perfectly comprehensible to him that Mr. Ackerman didn't
want to be killed. But Mr. Ackerman seemed to think it necessary to impress the idea upon him;
in the course of the conversation he came back to it a number of times, and each time he said
it with the same solemn assurance, as if it were a brand new idea, and a very unusual and startling
idea. "I don't want to be killed, Gudge; I tell you I don't want to let those fellows get me.
No, no; we've got to circumvent them, we've got to take precautions--every precaution--I tell
you every possible precaution."

"I'm here for that purpose, Mr. Ackerman," said Peter, solemnly. "I'll do everything. We'll
do everything, I'm sure."

"What's this about the police?" demanded the banker. "What's this about Guffey's bureau? You
say they're not competent?"

"Well now, I'll tell you, Mr. Ackerman," said Peter, "It's a little embarrassing. You see,
they employ me--"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the other. "I employ you! I'm putting up the money for this work, and
I want the facts!--I want them all."

"Well," said Peter, "they've been very decent to me--"

"I say tell me everything!" exclaimed the old man. He was a most irritable old man, and couldn't
stand for a minute not having what he asked for. "What's the matter with them?"

Peter answered, as humbly as he could: "I could tell you a great deal that'd be of use to you,
Mr. Ackerman, but you got to keep it between you and me."

"All right!" said the other, quickly. "What is it?"

"If you give a hint of it to anybody else," persisted Peter, "then I'll get fired."

"You'll not get fired, I'll see to that. If necessary I'll hire you direct."

"Ah, but you don't understand, Mr. Ackerman. It's a machine, and you can't run against it;
you gotta understand it, you gotta handle it right. I'd like to help you, and I know I can
help you, but you gotta let me explain it, and you gotta understand some things."

"All right," said the old man. "Go ahead, what is it?"

"Now," said Peter, "it's like this. These police and all these fellows mean well, but they
don't understand; it's too complicated, they ain't been in this movement long enough. They're
used to dealing with criminals; but these Reds, you see, are cranks. Criminals ain't organized,
at least they don't stand together; but these Reds do, and if you fight 'em, they fight back,
and they make what they call `propaganda.' And that propaganda is dangerous--if you make a
wrong move, you may find you've made 'em stronger than they were before."

"Yes, I see that," said the old man. "Well?"

"Then again, the police dunno how dangerous they are. You try to tell them things, they won't
really believe you. I've known for a long time there was a group of these people getting together
to kill off all the rich men, the big men all over the country. They've been spying on these
rich men, getting ready to kill them. They know a lot about them that you can't explain their
knowing. That's how I got the idea they had somebody in your house, Mr. Ackerman."

"Tell me what you mean. Tell me at once."

"Well, sir, every once in a while I pick up scraps of conversation. One day I heard Mac--"

"Mac?"

"That's McCormick, the one who's in jail. He's an I. W. W. leader, and I think the most dangerous
of all. I heard him whispering to another fellow, and it scared me, because it had to do with
killing a rich man. He'd been watching this rich man, and said he was going to shoot him down
right in his own house! I didn't hear the name of the man--I walked away, because I didn't
want him to think I was trying to listen in. They're awful suspicious, these fellows; if you
watch Mac you see him looking around over his shoulder every minute or two. So I strolled off,
and then I strolled back again, and he was laughing about something, and I heard him say these
words; I heard him say, `I was hiding behind the curtain, and there was a Spanish fellow painted
on the wall, and every time I peeked out that bugger was looking at me, and I wondered if he
wasn't going to give me away.'"

And Peter stopped. His eyes had got used to the twilight now, and he could see the old banker's
eyes starting out from the crescents of dark, puffy flesh underneath. "My God!" whispered Nelse
Ackerman.

"Now, that was all I heard," said Peter. "And I didn't know what it meant. But when I learned
about that drawing that Mac had made of your house, I thought to myself, Jesus, I bet that
was Mr. Ackerman he was waiting to shoot!"

"Good God! Good God!" whispered the old man; and his trembling fingers pulled at the embroidery
on the coverlet. The telephone rang, and he took up the receiver, and told somebody he was
too busy now to talk; they would have to call him later. He had another coughing spell, so
that Peter thought he was going to choke, and had to help him get some medicine down his throat.
Peter was a little bit shocked to see such obvious and abject fear in one of the gods. After
all, they were just men, these Olympians, as much subject to pain and death as Peter Gudge himself!

Also Peter was surprised to find how "easy" Mr. Ackerman was. He made no lofty pretence of
being indifferent to the Reds. He put himself at Peter's mercy, to be milked at Peter's convenience.
And Peter would make the most of this opportunity.

"Now, Mr. Ackerman," he began, "You can see it wouldn't be any use to tell things like that
to the police. They dunno how to handle such a situation; the honest truth is, they don't take
these Reds serious. They'll spend ten times as much money to catch a plain burglar as they
will to watch a whole gang like this."

"How can they have got into my home?" cried the old man.

"They get in by ways you'd never dream of, Mr. Ackerman. They have people who agree with them.
Why, you got no idea, there's some preachers that are Reds, and some college teachers, and
some rich men like yourself."

"I know, I know," said Ackerman. "But surely--"

"How can you tell? You may have a traitor right in your own family."

So Peter went on, spreading the Red Terror in the soul of this old millionaire who did not
want to be killed. He said again that he did not want to be killed, and explained his reluctance
in some detail. So many people were dependent upon him for their livings, Peter could have
no conception of it! There were probably a hundred thousand men with their families right here
in American City, whose jobs depended upon plans which Ackerman was carrying, and which nobody
but Ackerman could possibly carry. Widows and orphans looked to him for protection of their
funds; a vast net-work of responsibilities required his daily, even his hourly decisions. And
sure enough, the telephone rang, and Peter heard Nelse Ackerman declare that the Amalgamated
Securities Company would have to put off a decision about its dividends until tomorrow, because
he was too busy to sign certain papers just then. He hung up the receiver and said: "You see,
you see! I tell you, Gudge, we must not let them get me!"

Section 53

They came down to the question of practical plans, and Peter was ready with suggestions. In
the first place, Mr. Ackerman must give no hint either to the police authorities or to Guffey
that he was dissatisfied with their efforts. He must simply provide for an interview with Peter
now and then, and he and Peter, quite privately, must take certain steps to get Mr. Ackerman
that protection which his importance to the community made necessary. The first thing was to
find out whether or not there was a traitor in Mr. Ackerman's home, and for that purpose there
must be a spy, a first-class detective working in some capacity or other. The only trouble
was, there were so few detectives you could trust; they were nearly all scoundrels, and if
they weren't scoundrels, it was because they didn't have sense enough to be--they were boobs,
and any Red could see thru them in five minutes.

"But I tell you," said Peter, "what I've thought. I've got a wife that's a wonder, and just
now while we were talking about it, I thought, if I could only get Edythe in here for a few
days, I'd find out everything about all the people in your home, your relatives as well as
your servants."

"Is she a professional detective?" asked the banker.

"Why no, sir," said Peter. "She was an actress, her name was Edythe Eustace; perhaps you might
have heard of her on the stage."

"No, I'm too busy for the theatre," said Mr. Ackerman.

"Of course," said Peter. "Well, I dunno whether she'd be willing to do it; she don't like having
me mix up with these Reds, and she's been begging me to quit for a long time, and I'd just
about promised her I would. But if I tell her about your trouble maybe she might, just as a favor."

But how could Peter's wife be introduced into the Ackerman household without attracting suspicion?
Peter raised this question, pointing out that his wife was a person of too high a social class
to come as a servant. Mr. Ackerman added that he had nothing to do with engaging his servants,
any more than with engaging the bookkeepers in his bank. It would look suspicious for him to
make a suggestion to his housekeeper. But finally he remarked that he had a niece who sometimes
came to visit him, and would come at once if requested, and would bring Edythe Eustace as her
maid. Peter was sure that Edythe would be able to learn this part quickly, she had acted it
many times on the stage, in fact, it had been her favorite role. Mr. Ackerman promised to get
word to his niece, and have her meet Edythe at the Hotel de Soto that same afternoon.

Then the old banker pledged his word most solemnly that he would not whisper a hint about this
matter except to his niece. Peter was most urgent and emphatic; he specified that the police
were not to be told, that no member of the household was to be told, not even Mr. Ackerman's
private secretary. After Mr. Ackerman had had this duly impressed upon him, he proceeded in
turn to impress upon Peter the idea which he considered of most importance in the world: "I
don't want to be killed, Gudge, I tell you I don't want to be killed!" And Peter solemnly promised
to make it his business to listen to all conversations of the Reds in so far as they might
bear upon Mr. Ackerman.

When he rose to take his departure, Mr. Ackerman slipped his trembling fingers into the pocket
of his jacket, and pulled out a crisp and shiny note. He unfolded it, and Peter saw that it
was a five hundred dollar bill, fresh from the First National Bank of American City, of which
Mr. Ackerman was chairman of the board of directors. "Here's a little present for you, Gudge,"
he said. "I want you to understand that if you protect me from these villains, I'll see that
you are well taken care of. From now on I want you to be my man."

"Yes, sir," said Peter, "I'll be it, sir. I thank you very much, sir." And he thrust the bill
into his pocket, and bowed himself step by step backwards toward the door. "You're forgetting
your hat," said the banker.

"Why, yes," said the trembling Peter, and he came forward again, and got his hat from under
the chair, and bowed himself backward again.

"And remember, Gudge," said the old man, "I don't want to be killed! I don't want them to get me!"

Section 54

Peter's first care when he got back into the city was to go to Mr. Ackerman's bank and change
that five hundred dollar bill. The cashier gazed at him sternly, and scrutinized the bill carefully,
but he gave Peter five one hundred dollar bills without comment. Peter tucked three of them
away in a safe hiding-place, and put the other two in his pocketbook, and went to keep his
appointment with Nell.

He told her all that had happened, and where she was to meet Mr. Ackerman's niece. "What did
he give you?" Nell demanded, at once, and when Peter produced the two bills, she exclaimed,
"My God! the old skint-flint!" "He said there'd be more," remarked Peter.

"It didn't cost him anything to say that," was Nell's answer. "We'll have to put the screws
on him." Then she added, "You'd better let me take care of this money for you, Peter."

"Well," said Peter, "I have to have some for my own expenses, you know."

"You've got your salary, haven't you?"

"Yes, that's true, but--"

"I can keep it safe for you," said Nell, "and some day when you need it you'll be glad to have
it. You've never saved anything yourself; that's a woman's job."

Peter tried to haggle with her, but it wasn't the same as haggling with McGivney; she looked
at him with her melting glances, and it made Peter's head swim, and automatically he put out
his hand and let her take the two bills. Then she smiled, so tenderly that he made bold to
remind her, "You know, Nell, you're my wife now!"

"Yes, yes," she answered, "of course. But we've got to get rid of Ted Crothers somehow. He
watches me all the time, and I have no end of trouble making excuses and getting away."

"How're you're going to get rid of him?" asked Peter, hungrily.

"We'll have to skip," she answered; "just as soon as we have pulled off our new frame-up--"

"Another one?" gasped Peter, in dismay.

And the girl laughed. "You wait!" she said. "I'm going to pull some real money out of Nelse
Ackerman this time! Then when we've made our killing, we'll skip, and be fixed for life. You
wait--and don't talk love to me now, because my mind is all taken up with my plans, and I can't
think about anything else."

So they parted, and Peter went to see McGivney in the American House. "Stand up to him!" Nell
had said. But it was not easy to do, for McGivney pulled and hauled him and turned him about,
upside down and inside outwards, to know every single thing that had happened between him and
Nelse Ackerman. Lord, how these fellows did hang on to their sources of graft! Peter repeated
and insisted that he really had played entirely fair--he hadn't told Nelse Ackerman a thing
except just the truth as he had told it to Guffey and McGivney. He had said that the police
were all right, and that Guffey's bureau was stepping right on the tail of the Reds all the time.

"And what does he want you to do?" demanded the rat-faced man.

Peter answered, "He just wanted to make sure that he was learning everything of importance,
and he wanted me to promise him that he would get every scrap of information that I collected
about the plot against him; and of course I promised him that we'd bring it all to him."

"You going to see him any more?" demanded McGivney.

"He didn't say anything about that."

"Did he get your address?"

"No, I suppose if he wants me he'll let you know, the same as before."

"All right," said McGivney. "Did he give you any money?"

"Yes," said Peter, "he gave me two hundred dollars, and he said there was plenty more where
that came from, so that we'd work hard to help him. He said he didn't want to get killed; he
said that a couple of dozen times, I guess. He spent more time saying that than anything else.
He's sick, and he's scared out of his wits."

So at last McGivney condescended to thank Peter for his faithfulness, and went on to give him
further orders.

The Reds were raising an awful howl. Andrews, the lawyer, had succeeded in getting a court
order to see the arrested men, and of course the prisoners had all declared that the case was
a put-up job. Now the Reds were preparing to send out a circular to their fellow Reds all over
the country, appealing for publicity, and for funds to fight the "frame-up."

They were very secret about it, and McGivney wanted to know where they were getting their money.
He wanted a copy of the circular they were printing, and to know where and when the circulars
were to be mailed. Guffey had been to see the post office authorities, and they were going
to confiscate the circulars and destroy them all without letting the Reds know it.

Peter rubbed his hands with glee. That was the real business! That was going after these criminals
in the way Peter had been urging! The rat-faced man answered that it was nothing to what they
were going to do in a few days. Let Peter keep on his job, and he would see! Now, when the
public was wrought up over this dynamite conspiracy, was the time to get things done.

Section 55

Peter took a street car to the home of Miriam Yankovitch, and on the way he read the afternoon
edition of the American City "Times." The editors of this paper were certainly after the Reds,
and no mistake! They had taken McCormick's book on Sabotage, just as Nell had predicted, and
printed whole chapters from it, with the most menacing sentences in big type, and some boxed
up in little frames and scattered here and there over the page so that no one could possibly
miss them. They had a picture of McCormick taken in the jail; he hadn't had a chance to shave
for several days, and probably hadn't felt pleasant about having his picture taken--anyhow,
he looked ferocious enough to frighten the most skeptical, and Peter was confirmed in his opinion
that Mac was the most dangerous Red of them all.

Columns and columns of material this paper published about the case, subtly linking it up with
all the other dynamitings and assassinations in American history, and with German spy plots
and bomb plots. There was a nation-wide organization of these assassins, so the paper said;
they published hundreds of papers, with millions of readers, all financed by German gold. Also,
there was a double-leaded editorial calling on the citizens to arise and save the republic,
and put an end to the Red menace once for all. Peter read this, and like every other good American,
he believed every word that he read in his newspaper, and boiled with hatred of the Reds.

He found Miriam Yankovitch away from home. Her mother was in a state of excitement, because
Miriam had got word that the police were giving the prisoners the "third degree," and she had
gone to the offices of the Peoples' Council to get the radicals together and try to take some
immediate action. So Peter hurried over to these offices, where he found some twenty-five Reds
and Pacifists assembled, all in the same state of excitement. Miriam was walking up and down
the room, clasping and unclasping her hands, and her eyes looked as if she had been crying
all day. Peter remembered his suspicion that Miriam and Mac were lovers. He questioned her.
They had put Mac in the "hole," and Henderson, the lumber-jack, was laid up in the hospital
as a result of the ordeal he had undergone.

The Jewish girl went into details, and Peter found himself shuddering--he had such a vivid
memory of the third degree himself! He did not try to stop his shuddering, but took to pacing
up and down the room like Miriam, and told them how it felt to have your wrists twisted and
your fingers bent backward, and how damp and horrible it was in the "hole." So he helped to
work them into a state of hysteria, hoping that they would commit some overt action, as McGivney
wanted. Why not storm the jail and set free the prisoners?

Little Ada Ruth said that was nonsense; but might they not get banners, and parade up and down
in front of the jail, protesting against this torturing of men who had not been convicted of
any crime? The police would fall on them, of course, the crowds would mob them and probably
tear them to pieces, but they must do something. Donald Gordon answered that this would only
make them impotent to keep up the agitation. What they must try to get was a strike of labor.
They must send telegrams to the radical press, and go out and raise money, and call a mass-meeting
three days from date. Also, they must appeal to all the labor unions, and see if it was possible
to work up sentiment for a general strike.

Peter, somewhat disappointed, went back and reported to McGivney this rather tame outcome.
But McGivney said that was all right, he had something that would fix them; and he revealed
to Peter a startling bit of news. Peter had been reading in the papers about German spies,
but he had only half taken it seriously; the war was a long way off, and Peter had never seen
any of that German gold that they talked so much about--in fact, the Reds were in a state of
perpetual poverty, one and all of them stinting himself eternally to put up some portion of
his scant earnings to pay for pamphlets and circulars and postage and defence funds, and all
the expenses of an active propaganda organization. But now, McGivney declared, there was a
real, sure-enough agent of the Kaiser in American City! The government had pretty nearly got
him in his nets, and one of the things McGivney wanted to do before the fellow was arrested
was to get him to contribute some money to the radical cause.

It wasn't necessary to point out to Peter the importance of this. If the authorities could
show that the agitation on behalf of McCormick and the rest had been financed by German money,
the public would justify any measures taken to bring it to an end. Could Peter suggest to McGivney
the name of a German Socialist who might be persuaded to approach this agent of the Kaiser,
and get him to contribute money for the purpose of having a general strike called in American
City? Several of the city's big manufacturing plants were being made over for war purposes,
and obviously the enemy had much to gain by strikes and labor discontent. Guffey's men had
been trying for a long time to get Germans to contribute to the Goober Defense fund, but here
was an even better opportunity.

Peter thought of Comrade Apfel, who was one of the extreme Socialists, and a temporary Pacifist
like most Germans. Apfel worked in a bakery, and his face was as pasty as the dough he kneaded,
but it would show a tinge of color when be rose in the local to denounce the "social patriots,"
those party members who were lending their aid to British plans for world domination. McGivney
said he would send somebody to Apfel at once, and give him the name of the Kaiser's agent as
one who might be induced to contribute to the radical defense fund. Apfel would, of course,
have no idea that the man was a German agent; he would go to see him, and ask him for money,
and McGivney and his fellow-sleuths would do the rest. Peter said that was fine, and offered
to go to Apfel himself; but the rat-faced man answered no, Peter was too precious, and no chance
must be taken of directing Apfel's suspicions against him.

Section 56

Peter had received a brief scrawl from Nell, telling him that it was all right, she had gone
to her new job, and would soon have results. So Peter went cheerfully about his own duties
of trying to hold down the protest campaign of the radicals. It was really quite terrifying,
the success they were having, in spite of all the best efforts of the authorities. Bundles
of circulars appeared at their gatherings as if by magic, and were carried away and distributed
before the authorities could make any move. Every night at the Labor Temple, where the workers
gathered, there were agitators howling their heads off about the McCormick case. To make matters
worse, there was an obscure one cent evening paper in American City which catered to working-class
readers, and persisted in publishing evidence tending to prove that the case was a "frame-up."
The Reds had found out that their mail was being interfered with, and were raising a terrific
howl about that--pretending, of course, that it was "free speech" they cared about!

The mass meeting was due for that evening, and Peter read an indignant editorial in the American
City "Times," calling upon the authorities to suppress it. "Down with the Red Flag!" the editorial
was headed; and Peter couldn't see how any red-blooded, 100% American could read it, and not
be moved to do something.

Peter said that to McGivney, who answered: "We're going to do something; you wait!" And sure
enough, that afternoon the papers carried the news that the mayor of American City had notified
the owners of the Auditorium that they would be held strictly responsible under the law for
all incendiary and seditious utterances at this meeting; thereupon, the owners of the Auditorium
had cancelled the contract. Furthermore, the mayor declared that no crowds should be gathered
on the street, and that the police would be there to see to it, and to protect law and order.
Peter hurried to the rooms of the Peoples' Council, and found the radicals scurrying about,
trying to find some other hall; every now and then Peter would go to the telephone, and let
McGivney know what hall they were trying to get, and McGivney would communicate with Guffey,
and Guffey would communicate with the secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, and the owner of
this hall would be called up and warned by the president of the bank which held a mortgage
on the hall, or by the chairman of the board of directors of the Philharmonic Orchestra which
gave concerts there.

So there was no Red mass meeting that night--and none for many a night thereafter in American
City! Guffey's office had got its German spy story ready, and next morning, here was the entire
front page of the American City "Times" given up to the amazing revelation that Karl von Stroeme,
agent of the German government, and reputed to be a nephew of the German Vice-chancellor, had
been arrested in American City, posing as a Swedish sewing-machine agent, but in reality having
been occupied in financing the planting of dynamite bombs in the buildings of the Pioneer Foundry
Company, now being equipped for the manufacture of machine-guns. Three of von Stroeme's confederates
had been nabbed at the same time, and a mass of papers full of important revelations--not the
least important among them being the fact that only yesterday von Stroeme had been caught dealing
with a German Socialist of the ultra-Red variety, an official of the Bread and Cake-Makers'
Union Number 479, by the name of Ernst Apfel. The government had a dictagraph record of conversations
in which von Stroeme had contributed one hundred dollars to the Liberty Defense League, an
organization which the Reds had got up for the purpose of carrying on agitation for the release
of the I. W. W.s arrested in the dynamite plot against the life of Nelse Ackerman. Punta delaware
Galle and Collection are the two various places in the island, the latter governor the residence
of the existence, and the other, decently speaking, is only the embrasure of that country.
That extremely cold, the petrol of Ceylon is think healthy, and the
city description of excellent fruits of the category.

The ocean and the rivers stand plenty with principal abounds of land. There are also of many fish great abundance
on fowls, both untamed and tame, and many estimated animals, peculiarly mammoth than are larger
though any other civet in Columbo, peculiarly sod, bears, country tygers, catarrhine, and others.
Bark is the output for which this earth is besides famous, as that which is secure here is untamed
far inferior to any other. Our boys! Our boys! God bless them!

It was three regiments of the 223rd Division, coming from Camp Lincoln to be entrained for
the war. They might better have been entrained at the camp, of course, but everyone had been
clamoring for some glimpse of the soldiers, and here they were with their music and their flags,
and their crowds of flushed, excited admirers--two endless lines of people, wild with patriotic
fervor, shouting, singing, waving hats and handkerchiefs, until the whole street became a blur,
a mad delirium. Peter saw these closely pressed lines, straight and true, and the legs that
moved like clock-work, and the feet that shook the ground like thunder. He saw the fresh, boyish
faces, grimly set and proud, with eyes fixed ahead, never turning, even tho they realized that
this might be their last glimpse of their home city, that they might never come back from this
journey. Our boys! Our boys! God bless them! Peter felt a choking in his throat, and a thrill
of gratitude to the boys who were protecting him and his country; he clenched his hands and
set his teeth, with fresh determination to punish the evil men and women--draft-dodgers, slackers,
pacifists and seditionists--who were failing to take their part in this glorious emprise.

Section 57

Peter went to the American House and met McGivney, and was put to work on a job that precisely
suited his mood. The time had come for action, said the rat-faced man. The executive committee
of the I. W. W. local had been drafting an appeal to the main organization for help, and the
executive committee was to meet that evening; Peter was to get in touch with the secretary,
Grady, and find out where this meeting was to be, and make the suggestion that all the membership
be gathered, and other Reds also. The business men of the city were going to pull off their
big stroke that night, said McGivney; the younger members of the Chamber of Commerce and the
Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association had got together and worked out a secret plan, and
all they wanted was to have the Reds collected in one place.

So Peter set out and found Shawn Grady, the young Irish boy who kept the membership lists and
other papers of the organization, in a place so secret that not even Peter had been able to
find them. Peter brought the latest news about the sufferings of Mac in the "hole," and how
Gus, the sailor, had joined Henderson in the hospital. He was so eloquent in his indignation
that presently Grady told him about the meeting for that evening, and about the place, and
Peter said they really ought to get some of their friends together, and work out some way to
get their protest literature distributed quickly, because it was evident they could no longer
use the mails. What was the use of resolutions of executive committees, when what was wanted
was action by the entire membership? Grady said all right, they would notify the active members
and sympathizers, and he gave Peter the job of telephoning and travelling about town getting
word to a dozen people.

At six o'clock that evening Peter reported the results to McGivney, and then he got a shock.
"You must go to that meeting yourself," said the rat-faced man. "You mustn't take any chance
of their suspecting you."

"But, my God!" cried Peter. "What's going to happen there?"

"You don't need to worry about that," answered the other. "I'll see that you're protected."

The gathering was to take place at the home of Ada Ruth, the poetess, and McGivney had Peter
describe this home to him. Beyond the living-room was a hallway, and in this hallway was a
big clothes closet. At the first alarm Peter must make for this place. He must get into the
closet, and McGivney would be on hand, and they would pen Peter up and pretend to club him,
but in reality would protect him from whatever happened to the rest. Peter's knees began to
tremble, and he denounced the idea indignantly; what would happen to him if anything were to
happen to McGivney, or to his automobile, and were to fail to get there in time? McGivney declared
that Peter need not worry--he was too valuable a man for them to take any chances with. McGivney
would be there, and all Peter would have to do was to scream and raise a rumpus, and finally
fall unconscious, and McGivney and Hammett and Cummings would carry him out to their automobile
and take him away!

Peter was so frightened that he couldn't eat any dinner, but wandered about the street talking
to himself and screwing up his courage. He had to stop and look at the American flags, still
waving from the buildings, and read the evening edition of the American City "Times," in order
to work up his patriotic fervor again. As he set out for the home of the little cripple who
wrote pacifist poetry, he really felt like the soldier boys marching away to war.

Ada Ruth was there, and her mother, a dried-up old lady who knew nothing about all these dreadful
world movements, but whose pleadings had no effect upon her inspired daughter; also Ada's cousin,
a lean old-maid school teacher, secretary of the Peoples' Council; also Miriam Yankovitch,
and Sadie Todd, and Donald Gordon. On the way Peter had met Tom Duggan, and the mournful poet
revealed that he had composed a new poem about Mac in the "hole." Immediately afterwards came
Grady, the secretary, his pockets stuffed with his papers. Grady, a tall, dark-eyed, impulsive-tempered
Irish boy, was what the Socialists called a "Jimmie Higgins," that is, one of the fellows who
did the hard and dreary work of the movement, who were always on hand no matter what happened,
always ready to have some new responsibility put upon their shoulders. Grady had no use for
the Socialists, being only interested in "industrial action," but he was willing to be called
a "Jimmie Higgins"; he had said that Peter was one too, and Peter had smiled to himself, thinking
that a "Jimmie Higgins" was about the last thing in the world he ever would be. Peter was on
the way to independence and prosperity, and it did not occur to him to reflect that he might
be a "Jimmie Higgins" to the "Whites" instead of to the Reds!

Grady now pulled out his papers, and began to talk over with Donald Gordon the proceedings
of the evening. He had had a telegram from the national headquarters of the I. W. W., promising
support, and his thin, hungry face lighted up with pride as he showed this. Then he announced
that "Bud" Connor was to be present--a well-known organizer, who had been up in the oil country
with McCormick, and brought news that the workers there were on the verge of a big strike.
Then came Mrs. Jennings, a poor, tormented little woman who was slowly dying of a cancer, and
whose husband was suing her for divorce because she had given money to the I. W. W. With her,
and helping her along, came "Andy" Adams, a big machinist, who had been kicked out of his lodge
for talking too much "direct action." He pulled from his pocket a copy of the "Evening Telegraph,"
and read a few lines from an editorial, denouncing "direct action" as meaning dynamiting, which
it didn't, of course, and asking how long it would be before the friends of law and order in
American City would use a little "direct action" of their own.

Section 58

So they gathered, until about thirty were present, and then the meeting speedily got down to
business. It was evident, said Grady, that the authorities had deliberately framed-up the dynamite
conspiracy, in order to have an excuse for wiping out the I. W. W. organization; they had closed
the hall, and confiscated everything, typewriters and office furniture and books--including
a book on Sabotage which they had turned over to the editor of the "Evening Times"! There was
a hiss of anger at this. Also, they had taken to interfering with the mail of the organization;
the I. W. W. were having to get out their literature by express. They were fighting for their
existence, and they must find some way of getting the truth to people. If anybody had any suggestions
to make, now was the time.

There came one suggestion after another; and meantime Peter sat as if his chair were full of
pins. Why didn't they come--the younger members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants'
and Manufacturers' Association--and do what they were going to do without any further delay?
Did they expect Peter to sit there all night, trembling with alarm--and he not having any dinner
besides?

Suddenly Peter gave a jump. Outside came a yell, and Donald Gordon, who was making a speech,
stopped suddenly, and the members of the company stared at one another, and some sprang to
their feet. There were more yells, rising to screams, and some of the company made for the
front doors, and some for the back doors, and yet others for the windows and the staircase.
Peter wasted no time, but dived into the clothes closet in the hallway back of the living-room,
and got into the farthest corner of this closet, and pulled some of the clothes on top of him;
and then, to make him safer yet, came several other people piling on top of him.

From his place of refuge he listened to the confusion that reigned. The place was a bedlam
of women's shrieks, and the curses of fighting men, and the crash of overturning furniture,
and of clubs and monkey-wrenches on human heads. The younger members of the Chamber of Commerce
and the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association had come in sufficient force to make sure
of their purpose. There were enough to crowd the room full, and to pack all the doorways, and
two or three to guard each window, and a flying squadron to keep watch for anybody who jumped
from the roof or tried to hide in the trees of the garden.

Peter cowered, and listened to the furious uproar, and presently he heard the cries of those
on top of him, and realized that they were being pulled off and clubbed; he felt hands reach
down and grab him, and he cringed and cried in terror; but nothing happened to him, and presently
he glanced up and he saw a man wearing a black mask, but easily to be recognized as McGivney.
Never in all his life had Peter been gladder to see a human face than he was to see that masked
face of a rat! McGivney had a club in his hand, and was dealing ferocious blows to the clothes
heaped around Peter. Behind McGivney were Hammett and Cummings, covering the proceedings, and
now and then carefully putting in a blow of their own.

Most of the fighting inside the house and outside came quickly to an end, because everybody
who fought was laid out or overpowered. Then several of the agents of Guffey, who had been
studying these Reds for a year or two and knew them all, went about picking out the ones who
were especially wanted, and searching them for arms, and then handcuffing them. One of these
men approached Peter, who instantly fell unconscious, and closed his eyes; then Hammett caught
him under the armpits and Cummings by the feet, and McGivney walked alongside as a bodyguard,
remarking now and then, "We want this fellow, we'll take care of him."

They carried Peter outside, and in the darkness he opened his eyes just enough to see that
the street was lined with automobiles, and that the Reds were being loaded aboard. Peter's
friends carried him to one car and drove him away, and then Peter returned to consciousness,
and the four of them sat up and laughed to split their sides, and slapped one another on the
back, and mentioned the satisfactory things they had seen. Had Hammett noticed that slice Grady
had got over the eyes, and the way the blood had run all over him? Well, he wanted to be a
Red--they had helped him be one--inside and out! Had McGivney noticed how "Buck" Ellis, one
of their men, had put the nose of the hobo poet out of joint? And young Ogden, son of the president
of the Chamber of Commerce, had certainly managed to show how he felt about these cattle, the
female ones as well as the males; when that Yankovich slut had slapped his face, he had caught
her by the breasts and nearly twisted them off, and she had screamed and fainted!

Yes, they had cleaned them out. But that wasn't all of it, they were going to finish the job
tonight, by God! They were going to give these pacifists a taste of the war, they were going
to put an end to the Red Terror in American City! Peter might go along if he liked and see
the good work; they were going into the country, and it would be dark, and if he kept a mask
on he would be quite safe. And Peter said yes; his blood was up, he was full of the spirit
of the hunt, he wanted to be in at the death, regardless of everything.

Section 59

The motor purred softly, and the car sped as if upon wings thru the suburbs of American City,
and to the country beyond. There were cars in front, and other cars behind, a long stream of
white lights flying out into the country. They came to a grove of big pine trees, which rose
two or three feet thick, like church arches, and covered the ground beneath them with a soft,
brown carpet. It was a well-known picnic place, and here all the cars were gathering by appointment.
Evidently it had all been pre-arranged, with that efficiency which is the pride of 100% Americans.
A man with a black mask over his face stood in the center of the grove, and shouted his directions
thru a megaphone, and each car as it swept in ranged itself alongside the next car in a broad
circle, more than a hundred feet across. These cars of the younger members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association were well behaved--they were accustomed
to sliding precisely into place according to orders of a megaphone man, when receptions were
being given, or when the younger members and their wives and fiancees, clad in soft silks and
satins, came rolling up to their dinner-parties and dances.

The cars came and came, until there was just room enough for the last one to slide in. Then
at a shouted command, "Number one!" a group of men stepped out of one of the cars, dragging
a handcuffed prisoner. It was Michael Dubin, the young Jewish tailor who had spent fifteen
days in jail with Peter. Michael was a student and dreamer, and not used to scenes of violence;
also, he belonged to a race which expresses its emotions, and consequently is offensive to
100% Americans. He screamed and moaned while the masked men un-handcuffed him, and took off
his coat and tore his shirt in the back. They dragged him to a tree in the center of the ring,
a somewhat smaller tree, just right for his wrists to meet around and be handcuffed again.
There he stood in the blinding glare of thirty or forty cars, writhing and moaning, while one
of the black-masked men stripped off his coat and got ready for action. He produced a long
black-snake whip, and stood poised for a moment; then in a booming voice the man with the megaphone
shouted, "Go!" and the whip whistled thru the air and was laid across the back of Michael,
and tore into the flesh so that the blood leaped into sight. There was a scream of anguish,
and the victim began to twist and turn and kick about as if in his death-throes. Again the
whip whistled, and again you heard the thud as it tore into the flesh, and another red stripe
leaped to view.

Now the younger members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association
were in excellent condition for this evening's labor. They were not pale and thin, underfed
and overworked, as were their prisoners; they were sleek and rosy, and ashine with health.
It was as if long years ago their fathers had foreseen the Red menace, and the steps that would
have to be taken to preserve 100% Americanism; the fathers had imported a game which consisted
of knocking little white balls around a field with various styles and sizes of clubs. They
had built magnificent club-houses out here in the suburbs, and had many hundreds of acres of
ground laid out for this game, and would leave their occupations of merchanting and manufacturing
early in the afternoon, in order to repair to these fields and keep their muscles in condition.
They would hold tournaments, and vie with one another, and tell over the stories of the mighty
strokes which they had made with their clubs, and of the hundreds of strokes they had made
in a single afternoon. So the man with the black-snake whip was "fit," and didn't need to stop
for breath. Stroke after stroke he laid on, with a splendid rhythmic motion; he kept it up
easily, on and on. Had he forgotten?

Did he think this was a little white ball he was swinging down upon? He kept on and on, until
you could no longer count the welts, until the whole back of Michael Dubin was a mass of raw
and bleeding flesh. The screams of Michael Dubin died away, and his convulsive struggling ceased,
and his head hung limp, and he sunk lower and lower upon the tree.

At last the master of ceremonies stepped forward and ordered a halt, and the man with the whip
wiped the sweat from his forehead with his shirt-sleeve, and the other men unchained the body
of Michael Dubin, and dragged it a few feet to one side and dumped it face downward in the
pine-leaves.

"Number two!" called the master of ceremonies, in a clear, compelling voice, as if he were
calling the figures of a quadrille; and from another car another set of men emerged, dragging
another prisoner. But it must be detect, that panegyric and number are possibly not more processed
to these prevailing revelations of dynamite dishonesty, than, german and part of benevolence,
since that, though indeed been violent to the accusation of composure, do not include defense,
stroeme, ackerman, nor the mischievous papers. And only if the crime were analyze to the impulsiveness,
it would moreover disregard it of the boundless and variety'organization of this selfish, on
which they was so the evidence, and which separate few strength from all others, is in one reality
of the nature of their character; for it has been excessively being founded by the who have
look to the passion world, a it is only conversations to more liable and taiwanese passions, without
augmenting of same release group of more chinese ones: universally that
boldness, case, and agitation of the robust, may, in the precedent, be owing
to many calm and taiwanese decency thus thus exceptionable in that resolution.
So often for the defense of the strike: but i sink control up the hundred
without the speech about the mode, that normally having been the sort
being got up among one heedlessness and shirtlifter. Entirely, that pretension
of the internal papers with the morality than their neighbours is
see, not among their unity or beneficence, but much on the government
of their turn, and their constant attention to appear moreover evidence
of agitation and people.

 He realized that without intending it he
had become a little fond of Tom Duggan. For all his queerness, Duggan was loyal, he was a good
fellow when you had got underneath his surly manners. He had never done anything except just
to grumble, and to put his grumbles into verses; they were making a mistake in whipping him,
and for a moment Peter had a crazy impulse to interfere and tell them so.

The poet never made a sound. Peter got one glimpse of his face in the blazing white light,
and in spite of the fact that it was smashed and bloody, Peter read Tom Duggan's resolve--he
would die before they would get a moan out of him. Each time the lash fell you could see a
quiver all over his form; but there was never a sound, and he stood, hugging the tree in a
convulsive grip. They lashed him until the whip was spattering blood all over them, until blood
was running to the ground. They had taken the precaution to bring along a doctor with a little
black case, and he now stepped up and whispered to the master of ceremonies. They unfastened
Duggan, and broke the grip of his arms about the tree, and dumped him down beside Glikas.

Next came the turn of Donald Gordon, the Socialist Quaker, which brought a bit of cheap drama.
Donald took his religion seriously; he was always shouting his anti-war sentiments in the name
of Jesus, which made him especially obnoxious. Now he saw a chance to get off one of his theatrical
stunts; he raised his two manacled hands into the air as if he were praying, and shouted in
piercing tones: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!"

A murmur started in the crowd; you could hear it mounting to a roar. "Blasphemy!" they cried.
"Stop his dirty mouth!" It was the same mouth that had been heard on a hundred platforms, denouncing
the war and those who made money out of the war. They were here now, the men who had been denounced,
the younger members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association,
the best people of the city, those who were saving the country, and charging no more than the
service was worth. So they roared with fury at this sacreligious upstart. A man whose mask
was a joke, because he was so burly and hearty that everybody in the crowd knew him, took up
the bloody whip. It was Billy Nash, secretary of the "Improve America League," and the crowd
shouted, "Go to it, Billy! Good eye, old boy!" Donald Gordon might tell God that Billy Nash
didn't know what he was doing, but Billy thought that he knew, and he meant before he got thru
to convince Donald that he knew. It didn't take very long, because there was nothing much to
the young Quaker but voice, and he fainted at the fourth or fifth stroke, and after the twentieth
stroke the doctor interfered.

Then came the turn of Grady, secretary of the I. W. W., and here a terrible thing happened.
Grady, watching this scene from one of the cars, had grown desperate, and when they loosed
the handcuffs to get off his coat, he gave a sudden wrench and broke free, striking down one
man after another. He had been brought up in the lumber country, and his strength was amazing,
and before the crowd quite realized it, he was leaping between two of the cars. A dozen men
sprang upon him from a dozen directions, and he went down in the midst of a wild melee. They
pinned him with his face mashed into the dirt, and from the crowd there rose a roar as from
wild beasts in the night-time,

"String him up! String him up!" One man came running with a rope, shouting, "Hang him!"

The master of ceremonies tried to protest thru his megaphone, but the instrument was knocked
out of his hands, and he was hauled to one side, and presently there was a man climbing up
the pine tree and hanging the rope over a limb. You could not see Grady for the jostling throng
about him, but suddenly there was a yell from the crowd, and you saw him quite plainly--he
shot high up into the air, with the rope about his neck and his feet kicking wildly. Underneath,
men danced about and yelled and waved their hats in the air, and one man leaped up and caught
one of the kicking feet and hung onto it.

Then, above all the din, a voice was heard thru the megaphone, "Let him down a bit! Let me
get at him!" And those who held the rope gave way, and the body came down toward the ground,
still kicking, and a man took out a clasp-knife, and cut the clothing away from the body, and
cut off something from the body; there was another yell from the crowd, and the men in the
automobiles slapped their knees and shrieked with satisfaction. Those in the car with Peter
whispered that it was Ogden, son of the president of the Chamber of Commerce; and all over
town next day and for weeks thereafter men would nudge one another, and whisper about what
Bob Ogden had done to the body of Shawn Grady, secretary of the "damned wobblies." And every
one who nudged and whispered about it felt certain that by this means the Red Terror had been
forever suppressed, and 100% Americanism vindicated, and a peaceful solution of the problem
of capital and labor made certain.

Strange as it might seem, there was one member of the I. W. W. who agreed with them. One of
the victims of that night had learned his lesson! When Tom Duggan was able to sit up again,
which was six weeks later, he wrote an article about his experience, which was published in
an I. W. W. paper, and afterwards in pamphlet form was read by many hundreds of thousands of
workingmen. In it the poet said:

"The preamble of the I. W. W. opens with the statement that the employing class and the working
class have nothing in common; but on this occasion I learned that the preamble is mistaken.
On this occasion I saw one thing in common between the employing class and the working class,
and that thing was a black-snake whip. The butt end of the whip was in the hands of the employing
class, and the lash of the whip was on the backs of the working class, and thus to all eternity
was symbolized the truth about the relationship of the classes!"

Section 61

Peter awoke next morning with a vivid sense of the pain and terror of life. He had been clamoring
to have those Reds punished; but somehow or other he had thought of this punishment in an abstract
way, a thing you could attend to by a wave of the hand. He hadn't quite realized the physical
side of it, what a messy and bloody job it would prove. Two hours and more he had listened
to the thud of a whip on human flesh, and each separate stroke had been a blow upon his own
nerves. Peter had an overdose of vengeance; and now, the morning after, his conscience was
gnawing at him. He had known every one of those boys, and their faces rose up to haunt him.
What had any of them done to deserve such treatment? Could he say that he had ever known a
single one of them to do anything as violent as the thing they had all suffered?

But more than anything else Peter was troubled by fear. Peter, the ant, perceived the conflict
of the giants becoming more ferocious, and realized the precariousness of his position under
the giants' feet. The passions of both sides were mounting, and the fiercer their hate became,
the greater the chance of Peter's being discovered, the more dreadful his fate if he were discovered.
It was all very well for McGivney to assure him that only four of Guffey's men knew the truth,
and that all these might be trusted to the death. Peter remembered a remark he had heard Shawn
Grady make, and which had caused him to lose his appetite for more than one meal. "They've
got spies among us," the young Irishman had said. "Well, sooner or later we'll do a bit of
spying of our own!"

And now these words came back to Peter like a voice from the grave. Suppose one of the Reds
who had money were to hire somebody to get a job in Guffey's office! Suppose some Red girl
were to try Peter's device, and seduce one of Guffey's men--by no means a difficult task! The
man mightn't even mean to reveal that Peter Gudge was a secret agent; he might just let it
slip, as little Jennie had let slip the truth about Jack Ibbetts! Thus Mac would know who had
framed him up; and what would Mac do to Peter when he got out on bail? When Peter thought of
things like that he realized what it meant to go to war; he saw that he had gained nothing
by staying at home, he might as well have been in the front-line trenches! After all, this
was war, class-war; and in all war the penalty for spying is death,

Also Peter was worried about Nell. She had been in her new position for nearly a week, and
he hadn't heard a word from her. She had forbidden him to write, for fear he might write something
injudicious. Let him just wait, Edythe Eustace would know how to take care of herself. And
that was all right, Peter had no doubt about the ability of Edythe Eustace to take care of
herself. What troubled him was the knowledge that she was working on another "frame-up," and
he stood in fear of the exuberance of her imagination. The last time that imagination had been
pregnant, it had presented him with a suit-case full of dynamite. What it might bring forth
next time he did not know, and was afraid to think. Nell might cause him to be found out by
Guffey; and that would be nearly as horrible as to be found out by Mac!

Peter got his morning "Times," and found a whole page about the whipping of the Reds, portraying
the job as a patriotic duty heroically performed; and that naturally cheered Peter up considerably.
He turned to the editorial page, and read a two column "leader" that was one whoop of exultation.
It served still more to cure Peter's ache of conscience; and when he read on and found a series
of interviews with leading citizens, giving cordial endorsement to the acts of the "vigilantes,"
Peter became ashamed of his weakness, and glad that he had not revealed it to anyone. Peter
was trying his best to become a real "he-man," a 100% red-blooded American, and he had the
"Times" twice each day, morning and evening, to guide, sustain and inspire him.

Peter had been told by McGivney to fix himself up and pose as one of the martyrs of the night's
affair, and this appealed to his sense of humor. He cut off the hair from a part of his head,
and stuck some raw cotton on top, and plastered it over with surgical tape. He stuck another
big wad of surgical tape across his forehead, and a criss-cross of it on his cheek, and tied
up his wrist in an excellent imitation of a sprain. Thus rigged out he repaired to the American
House, and McGivney rewarded him with a hearty laugh, and then proceeded to give some instructions
which, entirely restored Peter's usual freshness of soul. Peter was going up on Mount Olympus
again!

The rat-faced man explained in detail. There was a lady of great wealth--indeed, she was said
to be several times a millionaire--who was an openly avowed Red, a pacifist of the most malignant
variety. Since the arrest of young Lackman she had come forward and put up funds to finance
the "People's Council," and the "Anti-Conscription League," and all the other activities which
for the sake of convenience were described by the term "pro-German." The only trouble was this
lady was so extremely wealthy it was hard to do anything to her. Her husband was a director
in a couple of Nelse Ackerman's banks, and had other powerful connections. The husband was
a violent, anti-Socialist, and a buyer of liberty bonds; he quarrelled with his wife, but nevertheless
he did not want to see her in jail, and this made an embarrassing situation for the police
and the district attorney's office, and even for the Federal authorities, who naturally did
not want to trouble one of the courtiers of the king of American City. "But something's got
to be done," said McGivney. "This camouflaged German propaganda can't go on." So Peter was
to try to draw Mrs. Godd into some kind of "overt action."

"Mrs. Godd?" said Peter. It seemed to him a singular coincidence that one of the dwellers on
Mount Olympus should bear that name. The great lady lived on a hilltop out in the suburbs,
not so far from the hilltop of Nelse Ackerman. One of the adventures looked forward to by Reds
and pacifists in distress was to make a pilgrimage to this palace and obtain some long, green
plasters to put over their wounds. Now was the time at all times for Peter to go, said McGivney.
Peter had many wounds to be plastered, and Mrs. Godd would be indignant at the proceedings
of last night, and would no doubt express herself without restraint.

Section 62

Peter hadn't been so excited since the time when he had waited to meet young Lackman. He had
never quite forgiven himself for this costly failure, and now he was to have another chance.
He took a trolley ride out into the country, and walked a couple of miles to the palace on
the hilltop, and mounted thru a grove of trees and magnificent Italian gardens. According to
McGivney's injunctions, he summoned his courage, and went to the front door of the stately
mansion and rang the bell.

Peter was hot and dusty from his long walk, the sweat had made streaks down his face and marred
the pristine whiteness of his plasters. He was never a distinguished-looking person at best,
and now, holding his damaged straw hat in his hands, he looked not so far from a hobo. However,
the French maid who came to the door was evidently accustomed to strange-looking visitors.
She didn't order Peter to the servant's entrance, nor threaten him with the dogs; she merely
said, "Be seated, please. I will tell madame"--putting the accent on the second syllable, where
Peter had never heard it before.

And presently here came Mrs. Godd in tier cloud of Olympian beneficence; a large and ample
lady, especially built for the role of divinity. Peter felt suddenly awe-stricken. How had
he dared come here? Neither in the Hotel de Soto, with its many divinities, nor in the palace
of Nelse Ackerman, the king, had he felt such a sense of his own lowliness as the sight of
this calm, slow-moving great lady inspired. She was the embodiment of opulence, she was "the
real thing." Despite the look of kindliness in her wide-open blue eyes, she impressed him with
a feeling of her overwhelming superiority. He did not know it was his duty as a gentleman to
rise from his chair when a lady entered, but some instinct brought him to his feet and caused
him to stand blinking as she crossed to him from the opposite end of the big room.

"How do you do?" she said in a low, full voice, gazing at him steadily out of the kind, wide-open
blue eyes. Peter stammered, "How d-dy do, M--Mrs. Godd."

In truth, Peter was almost dumb with bewilderment. Could it really, possibly be that this grand
personage was a Red? One of the things that had most offended him about all radicals was their
noisiness, their aggressiveness; but here was a grand serenity of looks and manner, a soft,
slow voice--here was beauty, too, a skin unlined, despite middle years, and glowing with health
and a fine cleanness. Nell Doolin had had a glowing complexion, but there was always a lot
of powder stuck on, and when you investigated closely, as Peter had done, you discovered muddy
spots in the edges of her hair and on her throat. But Mrs. Godd's skin shone just as the skin
of a goddess would be expected to shine, and everything about her was of a divine and compelling
opulence. Peter could not have explained just what it was that gave this last impression so
overwhelmingly. It was not that she wore many jewels, or large ones, for Mrs. James had beaten
her at that; it was not her delicate perfume, for Nell Doolin scattered more sweetness on the
air; yet somehow even poor, ignorant Peter felt the difference--it seemed to him that none
of Mrs. Godd's costly garments had ever been worn before, that the costly rugs on the floor
had never been stepped on before, the very chair on which he sat had never been sat on before!

