People of this sort do not even feel the need of alternatives. Beyond the scope of a few personal
projects, meeting Her again, and things like that, they do not feel that there is a future.
They are unencumbered by any baggage of convictions whatever, in relation to that. That, at
least, is the only way in which I can explain our friend's high intellectual mobility. Attempts
to correlate statesmanship, which they regard with interest as a dramatic interplay of personalities,
with any secular movement of humanity, they class with the differential calculus and Darwinism,
as things far too difficult to be anything but finally and subtly wrong.

So the argument must pass into a direct address to the reader.

If you are not prepared to regard a world-wide synthesis of all cultures and polities and races
into one World State as the desirable end upon which all civilising efforts converge, what
do you regard as the desirable end? Synthesis, one may remark in passing, does not necessarily
mean fusion, nor does it mean uniformity.

The alternatives fall roughly under three headings. The first is to assume there is a best
race, to define as well as one can that best race, and to regard all other races as material
for extermination. This has a fine, modern, biological air ("Survival of the Fittest"). If
you are one of those queer German professors who write insanity about Welt-Politik, you assume
the best race is the "Teutonic"; Cecil Rhodes affected that triumph of creative imagination,
the "Anglo-Saxon race"; my friend, Moses Cohen, thinks there is much to be said for the Jew.
On its premises, this is a perfectly sound and reasonable policy, and it opens out a brilliant
prospect for the scientific inventor for what one might call Welt-Apparat in the future, for
national harrowing and reaping machines, and race-destroying fumigations. The great plain of
China ("Yellow Peril") lends itself particularly to some striking wholesale undertaking; it
might, for example, be flooded for a few days, and then disinfected with volcanic chlorine.
Whether, when all the inferior races have been stamped out, the superior race would not proceed
at once, or after a brief millennial period of social harmony, to divide itself into sub-classes,
and begin the business over again at a higher level, is an interesting residual question into
which we need not now penetrate.

That complete development of a scientific Welt-Politik is not, however, very widely advocated
at present, no doubt from a want of confidence in the public imagination. We have, however,
a very audible and influential school, the Modern Imperialist school, which distinguishes its
own race--there is a German, a British, and an Anglo-Saxon section in the school, and a wider
teaching which embraces the whole "white race" in one remarkable tolerance--as the superior
race, as one, indeed, superior enough to own slaves, collectively, if not individually; and
the exponents of this doctrine look with a resolute, truculent, but slightly indistinct eye
to a future in which all the rest of the world will be in subjection to these elect. The ideals
of this type are set forth pretty clearly in Mr. Kidd's Control of the Tropics. The whole world
is to be administered by the "white" Powers--Mr. Kidd did not anticipate Japan--who will see
to it that their subjects do not "prevent the utilisation of the immense natural resources
which they have in charge." Those other races are to be regarded as children, recalcitrant
children at times, and without any of the tender emotions of paternity. It is a little doubtful
whether the races lacking "in the elementary qualities of social efficiency" are expected to
acquire them under the chastening hands of those races which, through "strength and energy
of character, humanity, probity, and integrity, and a single-minded devotion to conceptions
of duty," are developing "the resources of the richest regions of the earth" over their heads,
or whether this is the ultimate ideal.

Next comes the rather incoherent alternative that one associates in England with official Liberalism.

Liberalism in England is not quite the same thing as Liberalism in the rest of the world; it
is woven of two strands. There is Whiggism, the powerful tradition of seventeenth-century Protestant
and republican England, with its great debt to republican Rome, its strong constructive and
disciplinary bias, its broad and originally very living and intelligent outlook; and interwoven
with this there is the sentimental and logical Liberalism that sprang from the stresses of
the eighteenth century, that finds its early scarce differentiated expression in Harrington's
Oceana, and after fresh draughts of the tradition of Brutus and Cato and some elegant trifling
with noble savages, budded in La Cite Morellyste, flowered in the emotional democratic naturalism
of Rousseau, and bore abundant fruit in the French Revolution. These are two very distinct
strands. Directly they were freed in America from the grip of conflict with British Toryism,
they came apart as the Republican and Democratic parties respectively. Their continued union
in Great Britain is a political accident. Because of this mixture, the whole career of English-speaking
Liberalism, though it has gone to one unbroken strain of eloquence, has never produced a clear
statement of policy in relation to other peoples politically less fortunate. It has developed
no definite ideas at all about the future of mankind. The Whig disposition, which once had
some play in India, was certainly to attempt to anglicise the "native," to assimilate his culture,
and then to assimilate his political status with that of his temporary ruler. But interwoven
with this anglicising tendency, which was also, by the bye, a Christianising tendency, was
a strong disposition, derived from the Rousseau strand, to leave other peoples alone, to facilitate
even the separation and autonomy of detached portions of our own peoples, to disintegrate finally
into perfect, because lawless, individuals. The official exposition of British "Liberalism"
to-day still wriggles unstably because of these conflicting constituents, but on the whole
the Whig strand now seems the weaker. The contemporary Liberal politician offers cogent criticism
upon the brutality and conceit of modern imperialisms, but that seems to be the limit of his
service. Taking what they do not say and do not propose as an indication of Liberal intentions,
it would seem that the ideal of the British Liberals and of the American Democrats is to favour
the existence of just as many petty, loosely allied, or quite independent nationalities as
possible, just as many languages as possible, to deprecate armies and all controls, and to
trust to the innate goodness of disorder and the powers of an ardent sentimentality to keep
the world clean and sweet. The Liberals will not face the plain consequence that such a state
of affairs is hopelessly unstable, that it involves the maximum risk of war with the minimum
of permanent benefit and public order. They will not reflect that the stars in their courses
rule inexorably against it. It is a vague, impossible ideal, with a rude sort of unworldly
moral beauty, like the gospel of the Doukhobors. Besides that charm it has this most seductive
quality to an official British Liberal, that it does not exact intellectual activity nor indeed
activity of any sort whatever. It is, by virtue of that alone, a far less mischievous doctrine
than the crude and violent Imperialism of the popular Press.

Neither of these two schools of policy, neither the international laisser faire of the Liberals,
nor "hustle to the top" Imperialism, promise any reality of permanent progress for the world
of men. They are the resort, the moral reference, of those who will not think frankly and exhaustively
over the whole field of this question. Do that, insist upon solutions of more than accidental
applicability, and you emerge with one or other of two contrasted solutions, as the consciousness
of kind or the consciousness of individuality prevails in your mind. In the former case you
will adopt aggressive Imperialism, but you will carry it out to its "thorough" degree of extermination.
You will seek to develop the culture and power of your kind of men and women to the utmost
in order to shoulder all other kinds from the earth. If on the other hand you appreciate the
unique, you will aim at such a synthesis as this Utopia displays, a synthesis far more credible
and possible than any other Welt-Politik. In spite of all the pageant of modern war, synthesis
is in the trend of the world. To aid and develop it, could be made the open and secure policy
of any great modern empire now. Modern war, modern international hostility is, I believe, possible
only through the stupid illiteracy of the mass of men and the conceit and intellectual indolence
of rulers and those who feed the public mind. Were the will of the mass of men lit and conscious,
I am firmly convinced it would now burn steadily for synthesis and peace.

It would be so easy to bring about a world peace within a few decades, was there but the will
for it among men! The great empires that exist need but a little speech and frankness one with
another. Within, the riddles of social order are already half solved in books and thought,
there are the common people and the subject peoples to be educated and drilled, to be led to
a common speech and a common literature, to be assimilated and made citizens; without, there
is the possibility of treaties. Why, for example, should Britain and France, or either and
the United States, or Sweden and Norway, or Holland, or Denmark, or Italy, fight any more for
ever? And if there is no reason, how foolish and dangerous it is still to sustain linguistic
differences and custom houses, and all sorts of foolish and irritating distinctions between
their various citizens! Why should not all these peoples agree to teach some common language,
French, for example, in their common schools, or to teach each other's languages reciprocally?
Why should they not aim at a common literature, and bring their various common laws, their
marriage laws, and so on, into uniformity? Why should they not work for a uniform minimum of
labour conditions through all their communities? Why, then, should they not--except in the
interests of a few rascal plutocrats--trade freely and exchange their citizenship freely throughout
their common boundaries? No doubt there are difficulties to be found, but they are quite finite
difficulties. What is there to prevent a parallel movement of all the civilised Powers in the
world towards a common ideal and assimilation?

Stupidity--nothing but stupidity, a stupid brute jealousy, aimless and unjustifiable.

The coarser conceptions of aggregation are at hand, the hostile, jealous patriotisms, the blare
of trumpets and the pride of fools; they serve the daily need though they lead towards disaster.
The real and the immediate has us in its grip, the accidental personal thing. The little effort
of thought, the brief sustained effort of will, is too much for the contemporary mind. Such
treaties, such sympathetic international movements, are but dream stuff yet on earth, though
Utopia has realised them long since and already passed them by.

CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH

The Bubble Bursts

Section 1

As I walk back along the river terrace to the hotel where the botanist awaits me, and observe
the Utopians I encounter, I have no thought that my tenure of Utopia becomes every moment more
precarious. There float in my mind vague anticipations of more talks with my double and still
more, of a steady elaboration of detail, of interesting journeys of exploration. I forget that
a Utopia is a thing of the imagination that becomes more fragile with every added circumstance,
that, like a soap-bubble, it is most brilliantly and variously coloured at the very instant
of its dissolution. This Utopia is nearly done. All the broad lines of its social organisation
are completed now, the discussion of all its general difficulties and problems. Utopian individuals
pass me by, fine buildings tower on either hand; it does not occur to me that I may look too
closely. To find the people assuming the concrete and individual, is not, as I fondly imagine,
the last triumph of realisation, but the swimming moment of opacity before the film gives way.
To come to individual emotional cases, is to return to the earth.

I find the botanist sitting at a table in the hotel courtyard.

"Well?" I say, standing before him.

"I've been in the gardens on the river terrace," he answers, "hoping I might see her again."

"Nothing better to do?"

"Nothing in the world."

"You'll have your double back from India to-morrow. Then you'll have conversation."

"I don't want it," he replies, compactly.

I shrug my shoulders, and he adds, "At least with him."

I let myself down into a seat beside him.

For a time I sit restfully enjoying his companionable silence, and thinking fragmentarily of
those samurai and their Rules. I entertain something of the satisfaction of a man who has finished
building a bridge; I feel that I have joined together things that I had never joined before.
My Utopia seems real to me, very real, I can believe in it, until the metal chair-back gives
to my shoulder blades, and Utopian sparrows twitter and hop before my feet. I have a pleasant
moment of unhesitating self-satisfaction; I feel a shameless exultation to be there. For a
moment I forget the consideration the botanist demands; the mere pleasure of completeness,
of holding and controlling all the threads possesses me.

"You will persist in believing," I say, with an aggressive expository note, "that if you meet
this lady she will be a person with the memories and sentiments of her double on earth. You
think she will understand and pity, and perhaps love you. Nothing of the sort is the case."
I repeat with confident rudeness, "Nothing of the sort is the case. Things are different altogether
here; you can hardly tell even now how different are----"

I discover he is not listening to me.

"What is the matter?" I ask abruptly.

He makes no answer, but his expression startles me.

"What is the matter?" and then I follow his eyes.

A woman and a man are coming through the great archway--and instantly I guess what has happened.
She it is arrests my attention first--long ago I knew she was a sweetly beautiful woman. She
is fair, with frank blue eyes, that look with a sort of tender receptivity into her companion's
face. For a moment or so they remain, greyish figures in the cool shadow, against the sunlit
greenery of the gardens beyond.

"It is Mary," the botanist whispers with white lips, but he stares at the form of the man.
His face whitens, it becomes so transfigured with emotion that for a moment it does not look
weak. Then I see that his thin hand is clenched.

I realise how little I understand his emotions.

A sudden fear of what he will do takes hold of me. He sits white and tense as the two come
into the clearer light of the courtyard. The man, I see, is one of the samurai, a dark, strong-faced
man, a man I have never seen before, and she is wearing the robe that shows her a follower
of the Lesser Rule.

Some glimmering of the botanist's feelings strikes through to my slow sympathies. Of course--a
strange man! I put out a restraining hand towards his arm. "I told you," I say, "that very
probably, most probably, she would have met some other. I tried to prepare you."

"Nonsense," he whispers, without looking at me. "It isn't that. It's--that scoundrel----"

He has an impulse to rise. "That scoundrel," he repeats.

"He isn't a scoundrel," I say. "How do you know? Keep still! Why are you standing up?"

He and I stand up quickly, I as soon as he. But now the full meaning of the group has reached
me. I grip his arm. "Be sensible," I say, speaking very quickly, and with my back to the approaching
couple. "He's not a scoundrel here. This world is different from that. It's caught his pride
somehow and made a man of him. Whatever troubled them there----"

He turns a face of white wrath on me, of accusation, and for the moment of unexpected force.
"This is your doing," he says. "You have done this to mock me. He--of all men!" For a moment
speech fails him, then; "You--you have done this to mock me."

I try to explain very quickly. My tone is almost propitiatory.

"I never thought of it until now. But he's---- How did I know he was the sort of man a disciplined
world has a use for?"

He makes no answer, but he looks at me with eyes that are positively baleful, and in the instant
I read his mute but mulish resolve that Utopia must end.

"Don't let that old quarrel poison all this," I say almost entreatingly. "It happened all differently
here--everything is different here. Your double will be back to-morrow. Wait for him. Perhaps
then you will understand----"

He shakes his head, and then bursts out with, "What do I want with a double? Double! What do
I care if things have been different here? This----"

He thrusts me weakly back with his long, white hand. "My God!" he says almost forcibly, "what
nonsense all this is! All these dreams! All Utopias! There she is----! Oh, but I have dreamt
of her! And now----"

A sob catches him. I am really frightened by this time. I still try to keep between him and
these Utopians, and to hide his gestures from them.

"It's different here," I persist. "It's different here. The emotion you feel has no place in
it. It's a scar from the earth--the sore scar of your past----"

"And what are we all but scars? What is life but a scarring? It's you--you who don't understand!
Of course we are covered with scars, we live to be scarred, we are scars! We are the scars
of the past! These dreams, these childish dreams----!"

He does not need to finish his sentence, he waves an unteachable destructive arm.

My Utopia rocks about me.

For a moment the vision of that great courtyard hangs real. There the Utopians live real about
me, going to and fro, and the great archway blazes with sunlight from the green gardens by
the riverside. The man who is one of the samurai, and his lady, whom the botanist loved on
earth, pass out of sight behind the marble flower-set Triton that spouts coolness in the middle
of the place. For a moment I see two working men in green tunics sitting on a marble seat in
the shadow of the colonnade, and a sweet little silver-haired old lady, clad all in violet,
and carrying a book, comes towards us, and lifts a curious eye at the botanist's gestures.
And then----

"Scars of the past! Scars of the past! These fanciful, useless dreams!"

Section 2

There is no jerk, no sound, no hint of material shock. We are in London, and clothed in the
fashion of the town. The sullen roar of London fills our ears....

I see that I am standing beside an iron seat of poor design in that grey and gawky waste of
asphalte--Trafalgar Square, and the botanist, with perplexity in his face, stares from me to
a poor, shrivelled, dirt-lined old woman--my God! what a neglected thing she is!--who proffers
a box of matches....

He buys almost mechanically, and turns back to me.

"I was saying," he says, "the past rules us absolutely. These dreams----"

His sentence does not complete itself. He looks nervous and irritated.

"You have a trick at times," he says instead, "of making your suggestions so vivid----"

He takes a plunge. "If you don't mind," he says in a sort of quavering ultimatum, "we won't
discuss that aspect of the question--the lady, I mean--further."

He pauses, and there still hangs a faint perplexity between us.

"But----" I begin.

For a moment we stand there, and my dream of Utopia runs off me like water from an oiled slab.
Of course--we lunched at our club. We came back from Switzerland by no dream train but by the
ordinary Bale express. We have been talking of that Lucerne woman he harps upon, and I have
made some novel comment on his story. I have touched certain possibilities.

"You can't conceivably understand," he says.

"The fact remains," he goes on, taking up the thread of his argument again with an air of having
defined our field, "we are the scars of the past. That's a thing one can discuss--without personalities."

"No," I say rather stupidly, "no."

"You are always talking as though you could kick the past to pieces; as though one could get
right out from oneself and begin afresh. It is your weakness--if you don't mind my being frank--it
makes you seem harsh and dogmatic. Life has gone easily for you; you have never been badly
tried. You have been lucky--you do not understand the other way about. You are--hard."

I answer nothing.

He pants for breath. I perceive that in our discussion of his case I must have gone too far,
and that he has rebelled. Clearly I must have said something wounding about that ineffectual
love story of his.

"You don't allow for my position," he says, and it occurs to me to say, "I'm obliged to look
at the thing from my own point of view...."

One or other of us makes a move. What a lot of filthy, torn paper is scattered about the world!
We walk slowly side by side towards the dirt-littered basin of the fountain, and stand regarding
two grimy tramps who sit and argue on a further seat. One holds a horrible old boot in his
hand, and gesticulates with it, while his other hand caresses his rag-wrapped foot. "Wot does
Cham'lain si?" his words drift to us. "W'y, 'e says, wot's the good of 'nvesting your kepital
where these 'ere Americans may dump it flat any time they like...."

(Were there not two men in green sitting on a marble seat?)

Section 3

We walk on, our talk suspended, past a ruthlessly clumsy hoarding, towards where men and women
and children are struggling about a string of omnibuses. A newsvendor at the corner spreads
a newspaper placard upon the wood pavement, pins the corners down with stones, and we glimpse
something about:--

MASSACRE IN ODESSA.

DISCOVERY OF HUMAN REMAINS AT CHERTSEY.

SHOCKING LYNCHING OUTRAGE IN NEW YORK STATE.

GERMAN INTRIGUES GET A SET-BACK.

THE BIRTHDAY HONOURS.--FULL LIST.

Dear old familiar world!

An angry parent in conversation with a sympathetic friend jostles against us. "I'll knock his
blooming young 'ed orf if 'e cheeks me again. It's these 'ere brasted Board Schools----"

An omnibus passes, bearing on a board beneath an incorrectly drawn Union Jack an exhortation
to the true patriot to "Buy Bumper's British-Boiled Jam." ...

I am stunned beyond the possibility of discussion for a space. In this very place it must have
been that the high terrace ran with the gardens below it, along which I came from my double
to our hotel. I am going back, but now through reality, along the path I passed so happily
in my dream. And the people I saw then are the people I am looking at now--with a difference.

The botanist walks beside me, white and nervously jerky in his movements, his ultimatum delivered.

We start to cross the road. An open carriage drives by, and we see a jaded, red-haired woman,
smeared with paint, dressed in furs, and petulantly discontented. Her face is familiar to me,
her face, with a difference.

Why do I think of her as dressed in green?

Of course!--she it was I saw leading her children by the hand!

Comes a crash to our left, and a running of people to see a cab-horse down on the slippery,
slanting pavement outside St. Martin's Church.

We go on up the street.

A heavy-eyed young Jewess, a draggled prostitute--no crimson flower for her hair, poor girl!--regards
us with a momentary speculation, and we get a whiff of foul language from two newsboys on the kerb.

"We can't go on talking," the botanist begins, and ducks aside just in time to save his eye
from the ferule of a stupidly held umbrella. He is going to treat our little tiff about that
lady as closed. He has the air of picking up our conversation again at some earlier point.

He steps into the gutter, walks round outside a negro hawker, just escapes the wheel of a hansom,
and comes to my side again.

"We can't go on talking of your Utopia," he says, "in a noise and crowd like this."

We are separated by a portly man going in the opposite direction, and join again. "We can't
go on talking of Utopia," he repeats, "in London.... Up in the mountains--and holiday-time--it
was all right. We let ourselves go!"

"I've been living in Utopia," I answer, tacitly adopting his tacit proposal to drop the lady
out of the question.

"At times," he says, with a queer laugh, "you've almost made me live there too."

He reflects. "It doesn't do, you know. No! And I don't know whether, after all, I want----"

We are separated again by half-a-dozen lifted flagstones, a burning brazier, and two engineers
concerned with some underground business or other--in the busiest hour of the day's traffic.

"Why shouldn't it do?" I ask.

"It spoils the world of everyday to let your mind run on impossible perfections."

"I wish," I shout against the traffic, "I could smash the world of everyday."

My note becomes quarrelsome. "You may accept this as the world of reality, you may consent
to be one scar in an ill-dressed compound wound, but so--not I! This is a dream too--this world.
Your dream, and you bring me back to it--out of Utopia----"

The crossing of Bow Street gives me pause again.

The face of a girl who is passing westward, a student girl, rather carelessly dressed, her
books in a carrying-strap, comes across my field of vision. The westward sun of London glows
upon her face. She has eyes that dream, surely no sensuous nor personal dream.

After all, after all, dispersed, hidden, disorganised, undiscovered, unsuspected even by themselves,
the samurai of Utopia are in this world, the motives that are developed and organised there
stir dumbly here and stifle in ten thousand futile hearts....

I overtake the botanist, who got ahead at the crossing by the advantage of a dust-cart.

"You think this is real because you can't wake out of it," I say. "It's all a dream, and there
are people--I'm just one of the first of a multitude--between sleeping and waking--who will
presently be rubbing it out of their eyes."

A pinched and dirty little girl, with sores upon her face, stretches out a bunch of wilting
violets, in a pitifully thin little fist, and interrupts my speech. "Bunch o' vi'lets--on'y
a penny."

"No!" I say curtly, hardening my heart.

A ragged and filthy nursing mother, with her last addition to our Imperial People on her arm,
comes out of a drinkshop, and stands a little unsteadily, and wipes mouth and nose comprehensively
with the back of a red chapped hand....

Section 4

"Isn't that reality?" says the botanist, almost triumphantly, and leaves me aghast at his triumph.

"That!" I say belatedly. "It's a thing in a nightmare!"

He shakes his head and smiles--exasperatingly.

I perceive quite abruptly that the botanist and I have reached the limits of our intercourse.

"The world dreams things like that," I say, "because it suffers from an indigestion of such
people as you."

His low-toned self-complacency, like the faded banner of an obstinate fort, still flies unconquered.
And you know, he's not even a happy man with it all!

For ten seconds or more I am furiously seeking in my mind for a word, for a term of abuse,
for one compendious verbal missile that shall smash this man for ever. It has to express total
inadequacy of imagination and will, spiritual anaemia, dull respectability, gross sentimentality,
a cultivated pettiness of heart....

That word will not come. But no other word will do. Indeed the word does not exist. There is
nothing with sufficient vituperative concentration for this moral and intellectual stupidity
of educated people....

"Er----" he begins.

No! I can't endure him.

With a passionate rapidity of movement, I leave his side, dart between a carriage and a van,
duck under the head of a cab-horse, and board a 'bus going westward somewhere--but anyhow,
going in exactly the reverse direction to the botanist. I clamber up the steps and thread my
swaying way to the seat immediately behind the driver.

"There!" I say, as I whack myself down on the seat and pant.

When I look round the botanist is out of sight.

Section 5

But I am back in the world for all that, and my Utopia is done.

It is good discipline for the Utopist to visit this world occasionally.

But from the front seat on the top of an omnibus on a sunny September afternoon, the Strand,
and Charing Cross corner, and Whitehall, and the great multitude of people, the great uproar
of vehicles, streaming in all directions, is apt to look a world altogether too formidable.
It has a glare, it has a tumult and vigour that shouts one down. It shouts one down, if shouting
is to carry it. What good was it to trot along the pavement through this noise and tumult of
life, pleading Utopia to that botanist? What good would it be to recommend Utopia in this driver's
preoccupied ear?

There are moments in the life of every philosopher and dreamer when he feels himself the flimsiest
of absurdities, when the Thing in Being has its way with him, its triumphant way, when it asks
in a roar, unanswerably, with a fine solid use of the current vernacular, "What Good is all
this--Rot about Utopias?"

One inspects the Thing in Being with something of the diffident speculation of primitive man,
peering from behind a tree at an angry elephant.

(There is an omen in that image. On how many occasions must that ancestor of ours have had
just the Utopist's feeling of ambitious unreality, have decided that on the whole it was wiser
to go very quietly home again, and leave the big beast alone? But, in the end, men rode upon
the elephant's head, and guided him this way or that.... The Thing in Being that roars so tremendously
about Charing Cross corner seems a bigger antagonist than an elephant, but then we have better
weapons than chipped flint blades....)

After all, in a very little time everything that impresses me so mightily this September afternoon
will have changed or passed away for ever, everything. These omnibuses, these great, stalwart,
crowded, many-coloured things that jostle one another, and make so handsome a clatter-clamour,
will all have gone; they and their horses and drivers and organisation; you will come here
and you will not find them. Something else will be here, some different sort of vehicle, that
is now perhaps the mere germ of an idea in some engineer student's brain. And this road and
pavement will have changed, and these impressive great buildings; other buildings will be here,
buildings that are as yet more impalpable than this page you read, more formless and flimsy
by far than anything that is reasoned here. Little plans sketched on paper, strokes of a pen
or of a brush, will be the first materialisations of what will at last obliterate every detail
and atom of these re-echoing actualities that overwhelm us now. And the clothing and gestures
of these innumerable people, the character of their faces and bearing, these too will be recast
in the spirit of what are now obscure and impalpable beginnings.

The new things will be indeed of the substance of the thing that is, but differing just in
the measure of the will and imagination that goes to make them. They will be strong and fair
as the will is sturdy and organised and the imagination comprehensive and bold; they will be
ugly and smeared with wretchedness as the will is fluctuating and the imagination timid and mean.

Indeed Will is stronger than Fact, it can mould and overcome Fact. But this world has still
to discover its will, it is a world that slumbers inertly, and all this roar and pulsation
of life is no more than its heavy breathing.... My mind runs on to the thought of an awakening.

As my omnibus goes lumbering up Cockspur Street through the clatter rattle of the cabs and
carriages, there comes another fancy in my mind.... Could one but realise an apocalyptic image
and suppose an angel, such as was given to each of the seven churches of Asia, given for a
space to the service of the Greater Rule. I see him as a towering figure of flame and colour,
standing between earth and sky, with a trumpet in his hands, over there above the Haymarket,
against the October glow; and when he sounds, all the samurai, all who are samurai in Utopia,
will know themselves and one another....

(Whup! says a motor brougham, and a policeman stays the traffic with his hand.)

All of us who partake of the samurai would know ourselves and one another!

For a moment I have a vision of this resurrection of the living, of a vague, magnificent answer,
of countless myriads at attention, of all that is fine in humanity at attention, round the
compass of the earth.

Then that philosophy of individual uniqueness resumes its sway over my thoughts, and my dream
of a world's awakening fades.

I had forgotten....

Things do not happen like that. God is not simple, God is not theatrical, the summons comes
to each man in its due time for him, with an infinite subtlety of variety....

If that is so, what of my Utopia?

This infinite world must needs be flattened to get it on one retina. The picture of a solid
thing, although it is flattened and simplified, is not necessarily a lie. Surely, surely, in
the end, by degrees, and steps, something of this sort, some such understanding, as this Utopia
must come. First here, then there, single men and then groups of men will fall into line--not
indeed with my poor faulty hesitating suggestions--but with a great and comprehensive plan
wrought out by many minds and in many tongues. It is just because my plan is faulty, because
it mis-states so much, and omits so much, that they do not now fall in. It will not be like
my dream, the world that is coming. My dream is just my own poor dream, the thing sufficient
for me. We fail in comprehension, we fail so variously and abundantly. We see as much as it
is serviceable for us to see, and we see no further. But the fresh undaunted generations come
to take on our work beyond our utmost effort, beyond the range of our ideas. They will learn
with certainty things that to us are guesses and riddles....

There will be many Utopias. Each generation will have its new version of Utopia, a little more
certain and complete and real, with its problems lying closer and closer to the problems of
the Thing in Being. Until at last from dreams Utopias will have come to be working drawings,
and the whole world will be shaping the final World State, the fair and great and fruitful
World State, that will only not be a Utopia because it will be this world. So surely it must be----

The policeman drops his hand. "Come up," says the 'bus driver, and the horses strain; "Clitter,
clatter, cluck, clak," the line of hurrying hansoms overtakes the omnibus going west. A dexterous
lad on a bicycle with a bale of newspapers on his back dodges nimbly across the head of the
column and vanishes up a side street.

The omnibus sways forward. Rapt and prophetic, his plump hands clasped round the handle of
his umbrella, his billycock hat a trifle askew, this irascible little man of the Voice, this
impatient dreamer, this scolding Optimist, who has argued so rudely and dogmatically about
economics and philosophy and decoration, and indeed about everything under the sun, who has
been so hard on the botanist and fashionable women, and so reluctant in the matter of beer,
is carried onward, dreaming dreams, dreams that with all the inevitable ironies of difference,
may be realities when you and I are dreams.

He passes, and for a little space we are left with his egoisms and idiosyncrasies more or less
in suspense.

But why was he intruded? you ask. Why could not a modern Utopia be discussed without this impersonation--impersonally?
It has confused the book, you say, made the argument hard to follow, and thrown a quality of
insincerity over the whole. Are we but mocking at Utopias, you demand, using all these noble
and generalised hopes as the backcloth against which two bickering personalities jar and squabble?
Do I mean we are never to view the promised land again except through a foreground of fellow-travellers?
There is a common notion that the reading of a Utopia should end with a swelling heart and
clear resolves, with lists of names, formation of committees, and even the commencement of
subscriptions. But this Utopia began upon a philosophy of fragmentation, and ends, confusedly,
amidst a gross tumult of immediate realities, in dust and doubt, with, at the best, one individual's
aspiration. Utopias were once in good faith, projects for a fresh creation of the world and
of a most unworldly completeness; this so-called Modern Utopia is a mere story of personal
adventures among Utopian philosophies.

Indeed, that came about without the writer's intention. So it was the summoned vision came.
For I see about me a great multitude of little souls and groups of souls as darkened, as derivative
as my own; with the passage of years I understand more and more clearly the quality of the
motives that urge me and urge them to do whatever we do.... Yet that is not all I see, and
I am not altogether bounded by my littleness. Ever and again, contrasting with this immediate
vision, come glimpses of a comprehensive scheme, in which these personalities float, the scheme
of a synthetic wider being, the great State, mankind, in which we all move and go, like blood
corpuscles, like nerve cells, it may be at times like brain cells, in the body of a man. But
the two visions are not seen consistently together, at least by me, and I do not surely know
that they exist consistently together. The motives needed for those wider issues come not into
the interplay of my vanities and wishes. That greater scheme lies about the men and women I
know, as I have tried to make the vistas and spaces, the mountains, cities, laws, and order
of Utopia lie about my talking couple, too great for their sustained comprehension. When one
focuses upon these two that wide landscape becomes indistinct and distant, and when one regards
that then the real persons one knows grow vague and unreal. Nevertheless, I cannot separate
these two aspects of human life, each commenting on the other. In that incongruity between
great and individual inheres the incompatibility I could not resolve, and which, therefore,
I have had to present in this conflicting form. At times that great scheme does seem to me
to enter certain men's lives as a passion, as a real and living motive; there are those who
know it almost as if it was a thing of desire; even for me, upon occasion, the little lures
of the immediate life are seen small and vain, and the soul goes out to that mighty Being,
to apprehend it and serve it and possess. But this is an illumination that passes as it comes,
a rare transitory lucidity, leaving the soul's desire suddenly turned to presumption and hypocrisy
upon the lips. One grasps at the Universe and attains--Bathos. The hungers, the jealousies,
the prejudices and habits have us again, and we are forced back to think that it is so, and
not otherwise, that we are meant to serve the mysteries; that in these blinkers it is we are
driven to an end we cannot understand. And then, for measured moments in the night watches
or as one walks alone or while one sits in thought and speech with a friend, the wider aspirations
glow again with a sincere emotion, with the colours of attainable desire....

That is my all about Utopia, and about the desire and need for Utopia, and how that planet
lies to this planet that bears the daily lives of men.

APPENDIX

SCEPTICISM OF THE INSTRUMENT

A Portion of a Paper read to the Oxford Philosophical Society, November 8, 1903, and reprinted,
with some Revision, from the Version given in Mind, vol. xiii. (N.S.), No. 51.

(See also Chapter I., Section 6, and Chapter X., Sections 1 and 2.)

It seems to me that I may most propitiously attempt to interest you this evening by describing
very briefly the particular metaphysical and philosophical system in which I do my thinking,
and more particularly by setting out for your consideration one or two points in which I seem
to myself to differ most widely from current accepted philosophy.

You must be prepared for things that will strike you as crude, for a certain difference of
accent and dialect that you may not like, and you must be prepared too to hear what may strike
you as the clumsy statement of my ignorant rediscovery of things already beautifully thought
out and said. But in the end you may incline to forgive me some of this first offence.... It
is quite unavoidable that, in setting out these intellectual foundations of mine, I should
lapse for a moment or so towards autobiography.

A convergence of circumstances led to my having my knowledge of concrete things quite extensively
developed before I came to philosophical examination at all. I have heard someone say that
a savage or an animal is mentally a purely objective being, and in that respect I was like
a savage or an animal until I was well over twenty. I was extremely unaware of the subjective
or introverted element in my being. I was a Positivist without knowing it. My early education
was a feeble one; it was one in which my private observation, inquiry and experiment were far
more important factors than any instruction, or rather perhaps the instruction I received was
less even than what I learnt for myself, and it terminated at thirteen. I had come into pretty
intimate contact with the harder realities of life, with hunger in various forms, and many
base and disagreeable necessities, before I was fifteen. About that age, following the indication
of certain theological and speculative curiosities, I began to learn something of what I will
call deliberately and justly, Elementary Science--stuff I got out of Cassell's Popular Educator
and cheap text-books--and then, through accidents and ambitions that do not matter in the least
to us now, I came to three years of illuminating and good scientific work. The central fact
of those three years was Huxley's course in Comparative Anatomy at the school in Exhibition
Road. About that as a nucleus I arranged a spacious digest of facts. At the end of that time
I had acquired what I still think to be a fairly clear, and complete and ordered view of the
ostensibly real universe. Let me try to give you the chief things I had. I had man definitely
placed in the great scheme of space and time. I knew him incurably for what he was, finite
and not final, a being of compromises and adaptations. I had traced his lungs, for example,
from a swimming bladder, step by step, with scalpel and probe, through a dozen types or more,
I had seen the ancestral caecum shrink to that disease nest, the appendix of to-day, I had
watched the gill slit patched slowly to the purposes of the ear and the reptile jaw suspension
utilised to eke out the needs of a sense organ taken from its native and natural water. I had
worked out the development of those extraordinarily unsatisfactory and untrustworthy instruments,
man's teeth, from the skin scutes of the shark to their present function as a basis for gold
stoppings, and followed the slow unfolding of the complex and painful process of gestation
through which man comes into the world. I had followed all these things and many kindred things
by dissection and in embryology--I had checked the whole theory of development again in a year's
course of palaeontology, and I had taken the dimensions of the whole process, by the scale
of the stars, in a course of astronomical physics. And all that amount of objective elucidation
came before I had reached the beginnings of any philosophical or metaphysical inquiry, any
inquiry as to why I believed, how I believed, what I believed, or what the fundamental stuff
of things was.

Now following hard upon this interlude with knowledge, came a time when I had to give myself
to teaching, and it became advisable to acquire one of those Teaching Diplomas that are so
widely and so foolishly despised, and that enterprise set me to a superficial, but suggestive
study of educational method, of educational theory, of logic, of psychology, and so at last,
when the little affair with the diploma was settled, to philosophy. Now to come to logic over
the bracing uplands of comparative anatomy is to come to logic with a lot of very natural preconceptions
blown clean out of one's mind. It is, I submit, a way of taking logic in the flank. When you
have realised to the marrow, that all the physical organs of man and all his physical structure
are what they are through a series of adaptations and approximations, and that they are kept
up to a level of practical efficiency only by the elimination of death, and that this is true
also of his brain and of his instincts and of many of his mental predispositions, you are not
going to take his thinking apparatus unquestioningly as being in any way mysteriously different
and better. And I had read only a little logic before I became aware of implications that I
could not agree with, and assumptions that seemed to me to be altogether at variance with the
general scheme of objective fact established in my mind.

I came to an examination of logical processes and of language with the expectation that they
would share the profoundly provisional character, the character of irregular limitation and
adaptation that pervades the whole physical and animal being of man. And I found the thing
I had expected. And as a consequence I found a sort of intellectual hardihood about the assumptions
of logic, that at first confused me and then roused all the latent scepticism in my mind.

My first quarrel with the accepted logic I developed long ago in a little paper that was printed
in the Fortnightly Review in July 1891. It was called the "Rediscovery of the Unique," and
re-reading it I perceive not only how bad and even annoying it was in manner--a thing I have
long known--but also how remarkably bad it was in expression. I have good reason for doubting
whether my powers of expression in these uses have very perceptibly improved, but at any rate
I am doing my best now with that previous failure before me.

That unfortunate paper, among other oversights I can no longer regard as trivial, disregarded
quite completely the fact that a whole literature upon the antagonism of the one and the many,
of the specific ideal and the individual reality, was already in existence. It defined no relations
to other thought or thinkers. I understand now, what I did not understand then, why it was
totally ignored. But the idea underlying that paper I cling to to-day. I consider it an idea
that will ultimately be regarded as one of primary importance to human thought, and I will
try and present the substance of that early paper again now very briefly, as the best opening
of my general case. My opening scepticism is essentially a doubt of the objective reality of
classification. I have no hesitation in saying that is the first and primary proposition of
my philosophy.

I have it in my mind that classification is a necessary condition of the working of the mental
implement, but that it is a departure from the objective truth of things, that classification
is very serviceable for the practical purposes of life but a very doubtful preliminary to those
fine penetrations the philosophical purpose, in its more arrogant moods, demands. All the peculiarities
of my way of thinking derive from that.

Let me repeat; this is of the very smallest importance in all the practical affairs of life,
or indeed in relation to anything but philosophy and wide generalisations. But in philosophy
it matters profoundly. If I order two new-laid eggs for breakfast, up come two unhatched but
still unique avian individuals, and the chances are they serve my rude physiological purpose.
I can afford to ignore the hens' eggs of the past that were not quite so nearly this sort of
thing, and the hens' eggs of the future that will accumulate modification age by age; I can
venture to ignore the rare chance of an abnormality in chemical composition and of any startling
aberration in my physiological reaction; I can, with a confidence that is practically perfect,
say with unqualified simplicity "two eggs," but not if my concern is not my morning's breakfast
but the utmost possible truth.

Now let me go on to point out whither this idea of uniqueness tends. I submit to you that syllogism
is based on classification, that all hard logical reasoning tends to imply and is apt to imply
a confidence in the objective reality of classification. Consequently in denying that I deny
the absolute validity of logic. Let me for clearness' sake take a liberty here--commit, as
you may perhaps think, an unpardonable insolence.

It was about this difficulty that the mind of Plato played a little inconclusively all his
life. For the most part he tended to regard the idea as the something behind reality, whereas
it seems to me that the idea is the more proximate and less perfect thing, the thing by which
the mind, by ignoring individual differences, attempts to comprehend an otherwise unmanageable
number of unique realities. Doing that is like firing at an inaccessible, unmarkable and indestructible
target at an unknown distance, with a defective rifle and variable cartridges. Even if by chance
you hit, you cannot know that you hit, and so it will matter nothing at all.

This assertion of the necessary untrustworthiness of all reasoning processes arising out of
the fallacy of classification in what is quite conceivably a universe of uniques, forms only
one introductory aspect of my general scepticism of the Instrument of Thought. And where this
disposition has come in, in its most alluring guise, is in the case of negative terms. Our
instrument of knowledge persists in handling even such openly negative terms as the Absolute,
the Infinite, as though they were real existences, and when the negative element is ever so
little disguised, as it is in such a word as Omniscience, then the illusion of positive reality
may be complete.

Please remember that I am trying to tell you my philosophy, and not arguing about yours. When
you speak of the Absolute you speak to me of nothing. If however you talk of a great yet finite
and thinkable being, a being not myself, extending beyond my imagination in time and space,
knowing all that I can think of as known and capable of doing all that I can think of as done,
you come into the sphere of my mental operations, and into the scheme of my philosophy....

These then are my first two charges against our Instrument of Knowledge, firstly, that it can
work only by disregarding individuality and treating uniques as identically similar objects
in this respect or that, so as to group them under one term, and that once it has done so it
tends automatically to intensify the significance of that term, and secondly, that it can only
deal freely with negative terms by treating them as though they were positive. But I have a
further objection to the Instrument of Human Thought, that is not correlated to these former
objections and that is also rather more difficult to convey.

It is upon these three objections, and upon an extreme suspicion of abstract terms which arises
materially out of my first and second objections, that I chiefly rest my case for a profound
scepticism of the remoter possibilities of the Instrument of Thought. It is a thing no more
perfect than the human eye or the human ear, though like those other instruments it may have
undefined possibilities of evolution towards increased range, and increased power.

So much for my main contention. But before I conclude I may--since I am here--say a little
more in the autobiographical vein, and with a view to your discussion to show how I reconcile
this fundamental scepticism with the very positive beliefs about world-wide issues I possess,
and the very definite distinction I make between right and wrong.

I reconcile these things by simply pointing out to you that if there is any validity in my
image of that three dimensional jelly in which our ideas are suspended, such a reconciliation
as you demand in logic, such a projection of the things as in accordance upon one plane, is
totally unnecessary and impossible.

This insistence upon the element of uniqueness in being, this subordination of the class to
the individual difference, not only destroys the universal claim of philosophy, but the universal
claim of ethical imperatives, the universal claim of any religious teaching. If you press me
back upon my fundamental position I must confess I put faith and standards and rules of conduct
upon exactly the same level as I put my belief of what is right in art, and what I consider
right practice in art. I have arrived at a certain sort of self-knowledge and there are, I
find, very distinct imperatives for me, but I am quite prepared to admit there is no proving
them imperative on any one else. One's political proceedings, one's moral acts are, I hold,
just as much self-expression as one's poetry or painting or music. But since life has for its
primordial elements assimilation and aggression, I try not only to obey my imperatives, but
to put them persuasively and convincingly into other minds, to bring about my good and to resist
and overcome my evil as though they were the universal Good and the universal Evil in which
unthinking men believe. And it is obviously in no way contradictory to this philosophy, for
me, if I find others responding sympathetically to any notes of mine or if I find myself responding
sympathetically to notes sounding about me, to give that common resemblance between myself
and others a name, to refer these others and myself in common to this thing as if it were externalised
and spanned us all.

Scepticism of the Instrument is for example not incompatible with religious association and
with organisation upon the basis of a common faith. It is possible to regard God as a Being
synthetic in relation to men and societies, just as the idea of a universe of atoms and molecules
and inorganic relationships is analytical in relation to human life.

The repudiation of demonstration in any but immediate and verifiable cases that this Scepticism
of the Instrument amounts to, the abandonment of any universal validity for moral and religious
propositions, brings ethical, social and religious teaching into the province of poetry, and
does something to correct the estrangement between knowledge and beauty that is a feature of
so much mental existence at this time. All these things are self-expression. Such an opinion
sets a new and greater value on that penetrating and illuminating quality of mind we call insight,
insight which when it faces towards the contradictions that arise out of the imperfections
of the mental instrument is called humour. In these innate, unteachable qualities I hold--in
humour and the sense of beauty--lies such hope of intellectual salvation from the original
sin of our intellectual instrument as we may entertain in this uncertain and fluctuating world
of unique appearances....

So frankly I spread my little equipment of fundamental assumptions before you, heartily glad
of the opportunity you have given me of taking them out, of looking at them with the particularity
the presence of hearers ensures, and of hearing the impression they make upon you. Of course,
such a sketch must have an inevitable crudity of effect. The time I had for it--I mean the
time I was able to give in preparation--was altogether too limited for any exhaustive finish
of presentation; but I think on the whole I have got the main lines of this sketch map of my
mental basis true. Whether I have made myself comprehensible is a different question altogether.
It is for you rather than me to say how this sketch map of mine lies with regard to your own
more systematic cartography....

Here followed certain comments upon Personal Idealism, and Mr. F. C. S. Schiller's Humanism,
of no particular value.