I was grieved that true listening had become a lost art; for without it worthy speech is impossible.
To good listening is due a great part of the noble thought, the golden instruction, and the
brilliant wit which has elevated, enlightened, and brightened the soul of man. There are fine
minds whose workings are never expressed in writing; and even among those who, in print, spread
their ideas before the world there is a certain cream of thought which is given only to listeners,
if, happily, there be such.

Modern conversation has degenerated into the Italian game of moccoletto, in which every one
endeavors to blow out the candles of the others, and keep his own alight. In such rude play
there is no illumination. "There should be a reform," I declared. "There should be schools
of listening. Here men and women should be taught how, with sympathetic and delicate art, to
draw from others the useful and sometimes precious speech which, without their skillful coöperation,
might never know existence. To be willing to receive in order that good may be given should
be one of the highest aims of life.

"Not only should we learn to listen in order to give opportunity for the profitable speech
of others, but we should do so out of charity and good will to our fellow-men. How many weary
sick-beds, how many cheerless lives, how many lonely, depressed, and silent men and women,
might be gladdened, and for the time transformed, by one who would come, not to speak words
of cheer and comfort, but to listen to tales of suffering and trial! Here would be one of the
truest forms of charity; an almost unknown joy would be given to the world.

"There should be brotherhoods and sisterhoods of listeners; like good angels, they should go
out among those unfortunates who have none to hear that which it would give them so much delight
to say."

But alas! I knew of no such good angels. Must that which I had to tell remain forever untold
for the want of one? This could not be; there must exist somewhere a man or a woman who would
be willing to hear my accounts of travels and experiences which, in an exceptionable degree,
were interesting and valuable.

I determined to advertise for a listener.

IV.

I OBTAIN A LISTENER.

The writing of my advertisement cost me a great deal of trouble. At first I thought of stating
that I desired a respectable and intelligent person, who would devote a few hours each day
to the services of a literary man; but on reflection I saw that this would bring me a vast
number of answers from persons who were willing to act as secretaries, proof-readers, or anything
of the sort, and I should have no means of finding out from their letters whether they were
good listeners or not.

Therefore I determined to be very straightforward and definite, and to state plainly what it
was I wanted. The following is the advertisement which I caused to be inserted in several of
the city papers:--

     "Wanted.--A respectable and intelligent person, willing to
     devote several hours a day to listening to the recitals of a
     traveler. Address, stating compensation expected, Oral."

I mentioned my purpose to no one, not even to my grandmother, for I should merely make myself
the object of the ridicule of my friends, and my dear relative's soul would be filled with
grief that she had not been considered competent to do for me so slight a service. If I succeeded
in obtaining a listener, he could come to me in my library, where no one would know he was
not a stenographer to whom I was dictating literary matter, or a teacher of languages who came
to instruct me in Arabic.

