The pink-faced clock drummed out another hour, and Gerty rose with a start. She had an appointment
early the next morning with a district visitor on the East side. She put out her lamp, covered
the fire, and went into her bedroom to undress. In the little glass above her dressing-table
she saw her face reflected against the shadows of the room, and tears blotted the reflection.
What right had she to dream the dreams of loveliness?  A dull face invited a dull fate. She
cried quietly as she undressed, laying aside her clothes with her habitual precision, setting
everything in order for the next day, when the old life must be taken up as though there had
been no break in its routine.  Her servant did not come till eight o'clock, and she prepared
her own tea-tray and placed it beside the bed. Then she locked the door of the flat, extinguished
her light and lay down.  But on her bed sleep would not come, and she lay face to face with
the fact that she hated Lily Bart. It closed with her in the darkness like some formless evil
to be blindly grappled with.  Reason, judgment, renunciation, all the sane daylight forces,
were beaten back in the sharp struggle for self-preservation. She wanted happiness--wanted
it as fiercely and unscrupulously as Lily did, but without Lily's power of obtaining it.  And
in her conscious impotence she lay shivering, and hated her friend----

A ring at the door-bell caught her to her feet. She struck a light and stood startled, listening.
For a moment her heart beat incoherently, then she felt the sobering touch of fact, and remembered
that such calls were not unknown in her charitable work. She flung on her dressing-gown to
answer the summons, and unlocking her door, confronted the shining vision of Lily Bart.

Gerty's first movement was one of revulsion. She shrank back as though Lily's presence flashed
too sudden a light upon her misery. Then she heard her name in a cry, had a glimpse of her
friend's face, and felt herself caught and clung to.

"Lily--what is it?" she exclaimed.

Miss Bart released her, and stood breathing brokenly, like one who has gained shelter after
a long flight.

"I was so cold--I couldn't go home. Have you a fire?"

Gerty's compassionate instincts, responding to the swift call of habit, swept aside all her
reluctances. Lily was simply some one who needed help--for what reason, there was no time to
pause and conjecture: disciplined sympathy checked the wonder on Gerty's lips, and made her
draw her friend silently into the sitting-room and seat her by the darkened hearth.

"There is kindling wood here: the fire will burn in a minute."

She knelt down, and the flame leapt under her rapid hands. It flashed strangely through the
tears which still blurred her eyes, and smote on the white ruin of Lily's face. The girls looked
at each other in silence; then Lily repeated: "I couldn't go home."

"No--no--you came here, dear! You're cold and tired--sit quiet, and I'll make you some tea."

Gerty had unconsciously adopted the soothing note of her trade: all personal feeling was merged
in the sense of ministry, and experience had taught her that the bleeding must be stayed before
the wound is probed.

Lily sat quiet, leaning to the fire: the clatter of cups behind her soothed her as familiar
noises hush a child whom silence has kept wakeful. But when Gerty stood at her side with the
tea she pushed it away, and turned an estranged eye on the familiar room.

"I came here because I couldn't bear to be alone," she said.

Gerty set down the cup and knelt beside her.

"Lily! Something has happened--can't you tell me?"

"I couldn't bear to lie awake in my room till morning. I hate my room at Aunt Julia's--so I
came here----"

She stirred suddenly, broke from her apathy, and clung to Gerty in a fresh burst of fear.

"Oh, Gerty, the furies . . . you know the noise of their wings--alone, at night, in the dark?
But you don't know--there is nothing to make the dark dreadful to you----"

The words, flashing back on Gerty's last hours, struck from her a faint derisive murmur; but
Lily, in the blaze of her own misery, was blinded to everything outside it.

"You'll let me stay? I shan't mind when daylight comes--Is it late? Is the night nearly over?
It must be awful to be sleepless--everything stands by the bed and stares----"

Miss Farish caught her straying hands. "Lily, look at me!  Something has happened--an accident?
You have been frightened--what has frightened you? Tell me if you can--a word or two--so that
I can help you."

Lily shook her head.

"I am not frightened: that's not the word. Can you imagine looking into your glass some morning
and seeing a disfigurement--some hideous change that has come to you while you slept? Well,
I seem to myself like that--I can't bear to see myself in my own thoughts--I hate ugliness,
you know--I've always turned from it--but I can't explain to you--you wouldn't understand."

She lifted her head and her eyes fell on the clock.

"How long the night is! And I know I shan't sleep tomorrow. Some one told me my father used
to lie sleepless and think of horrors.  And he was not wicked, only unfortunate--and I see
now how he must have suffered, lying alone with his thoughts! But I am bad--a bad girl--all
my thoughts are bad--I have always had bad people about me. Is that any excuse? I thought I
could manage my own life--I was proud--proud! but now I'm on their level----"

Sobs shook her, and she bowed to them like a tree in a dry storm.

Gerty knelt beside her, waiting, with the patience born of experience, till this gust of misery
should loosen fresh speech.  She had first imagined some physical shock, some peril of the
crowded streets, since Lily was presumably on her way home from Carry Fisher's; but she now
saw that other nerve-centres were smitten, and her mind trembled back from conjecture.

Lily's sobs ceased, and she lifted her head.

"There are bad girls in your slums. Tell me--do they ever pick themselves up? Ever forget,
and feel as they did before?"

"Lily! you mustn't speak so--you're dreaming."

"Don't they always go from bad to worse? There's no turning back--your old self rejects you,
and shuts you out."

She rose, stretching her arms as if in utter physical weariness.  "Go to bed, dear! You work
hard and get up early. I'll watch here by the fire, and you'll leave the light, and your door
open. All I want is to feel that you are near me." She laid both hands on Gerty's shoulders,
with a smile that was like sunrise on a sea strewn with wreckage.

"I can't leave you, Lily. Come and lie on my bed. Your hands are frozen--you must undress and
be made warm." Gerty paused with sudden compunction. "But Mrs. Peniston--it's past midnight!
What will she think?"

"She goes to bed. I have a latch-key. It doesn't matter--I can't go back there."

"There's no need to: you shall stay here. But you must tell me where you have been. Listen,
Lily--it will help you to speak!" She regained Miss Bart's hands, and pressed them against
her.  "Try to tell me--it will clear your poor head. Listen--you were dining at Carry Fisher's."
Gerty paused and added with a flash of heroism: "Lawrence Selden went from here to find you."

At the word, Lily's face melted from locked anguish to the open misery of a child. Her lips
trembled and her gaze widened with tears.

"He went to find me? And I missed him! Oh, Gerty, he tried to help me. He told me--he warned
me long ago--he foresaw that I should grow hateful to myself!"

The name, as Gerty saw with a clutch at the heart, had loosened the springs of self-pity in
her friend's dry breast, and tear by tear Lily poured out the measure of her anguish. She had
dropped sideways in Gerty's big arm-chair, her head buried where lately Selden's had leaned,
in a beauty of abandonment that drove home to Gerty's aching senses the inevitableness of her
own defeat.  Ah, it needed no deliberate purpose on Lily's part to rob her of her dream! To
look on that prone loveliness was to see in it a natural force, to recognize that love and
power belong to such as Lily, as renunciation and service are the lot of those they despoil.
But if Selden's infatuation seemed a fatal necessity, the effect that his name produced shook
Gerty's steadfastness with a last pang. Men pass through such superhuman loves and outlive
them: they are the probation subduing the heart to human joys. How gladly Gerty would have
welcomed the ministry of healing: how willingly have soothed the sufferer back to tolerance
of life! But Lily's self-betrayal took this last hope from her. The mortal maid on the shore
is helpless against the siren who loves her prey: such victims are floated back dead from their
adventure.

Lily sprang up and caught her with strong hands. "Gerty, you know him--you understand him--tell
me; if I went to him, if I told him everything--if I said: 'I am bad through and through--I
want admiration, I want excitement, I want money--' yes, MONEY!  That's my shame, Gerty--and
it's known, it's said of me--it's what men think of me--If I said it all to him--told him the
whole story--said plainly: 'I've sunk lower than the lowest, for I've taken what they take,
and not paid as they pay'--oh, Gerty, you know him, you can speak for him: if I told him everything
would he loathe me? Or would he pity me, and understand me, and save me from loathing myself?"

Gerty stood cold and passive. She knew the hour of her probation had come, and her poor heart
beat wildly against its destiny. As a dark river sweeps by under a lightning flash, she saw
her chance of happiness surge past under a flash of temptation. What prevented her from saying:
"He is like other men?" She was not so sure of him, after all! But to do so would have been
like blaspheming her love. She could not put him before herself in any light but the noblest:
she must trust him to the height of her own passion.

"Yes: I know him; he will help you," she said; and in a moment Lily's passion was weeping itself
out against her breast.

There was but one bed in the little flat, and the two girls lay down on it side by side when
Gerty had unlaced Lily's dress and persuaded her to put her lips to the warm tea. The light
extinguished, they lay still in the darkness, Gerty shrinking to the outer edge of the narrow
couch to avoid contact with her bed-fellow. Knowing that Lily disliked to be caressed, she
had long ago learned to check her demonstrative impulses toward her friend. But tonight every
fibre in her body shrank from Lily's nearness: it was torture to listen to her breathing, and
feel the sheet stir with it. As Lily turned, and settled to completer rest, a strand of her
hair swept Gerty's cheek with its fragrance. Everything about her was warm and soft and scented:
even the stains of her grief became her as rain-drops do the beaten rose. But as Gerty lay
with arms drawn down her side, in the motionless narrowness of an effigy, she felt a stir of
sobs from the breathing warmth beside her, and Lily flung out her hand, groped for her friend's,
and held it fast.

"Hold me, Gerty, hold me, or I shall think of things," she moaned; and Gerty silently slipped
an arm under her, pillowing her head in its hollow as a mother makes a nest for a tossing child.
In the warm hollow Lily lay still and her breathing grew low and regular. Her hand still clung
to Gerty's as if to ward off evil dreams, but the hold of her fingers relaxed, her head sank
deeper into its shelter, and Gerty felt that she slept.

Chapter 15

When lily woke she had the bed to herself, and the winter light was in the room.

She sat up, bewildered by the strangeness of her surroundings; then memory returned, and she
looked about her with a shiver. In the cold slant of light reflected from the back wall of
a neighbouring building, she saw her evening dress and opera cloak lying in a tawdry heap on
a chair. Finery laid off is as unappetizing as the remains of a feast, and it occurred to Lily
that, at home, her maid's vigilance had always spared her the sight of such incongruities.
Her body ached with fatigue, and with the constriction of her attitude in Gerty's bed. All
through her troubled sleep she had been conscious of having no space to toss in, and the long
effort to remain motionless made her feel as if she had spent her night in a train.

This sense of physical discomfort was the first to assert itself; then she perceived, beneath
it, a corresponding mental prostration, a languor of horror more insufferable than the first
rush of her disgust.  The thought of having to wake every morning with this weight on her breast
roused her tired mind to fresh effort. She must find some way out of the slough into which
she had stumbled: it was not so much compunction as the dread of her morning thoughts that
pressed on her the need of action. But she was unutterably tired; it was weariness to think
connectedly. She lay back, looking about the poor slit of a room with a renewal of physical
distaste. The outer air, penned between high buildings, brought no freshness through the window;
steam-heat was beginning to sing in a coil of dingy pipes, and a smell of cooking penetrated
the crack of the door.

The door opened, and Gerty, dressed and hatted, entered with a cup of tea. Her face looked
sallow and swollen in the dreary light, and her dull hair shaded imperceptibly into the tones
of her skin.

She glanced shyly at Lily, asking in an embarrassed tone how she felt; Lily answered with the
same constraint, and raised herself up to drink the tea.

"I must have been over-tired last night; I think I had a nervous attack in the carriage," she
said, as the drink brought clearness to her sluggish thoughts.

"You were not well; I am so glad you came here," Gerty returned.

"But how am I to get home? And Aunt Julia--?"

"She knows; I telephoned early, and your maid has brought your things. But won't you eat something?
I scrambled the eggs myself."

Lily could not eat; but the tea strengthened her to rise and dress under her maid's searching
gaze. It was a relief to her that Gerty was obliged to hasten away: the two kissed silently,
but without a trace of the previous night's emotion.

Lily found Mrs. Peniston in a state of agitation. She had sent for Grace Stepney and was taking
digitalis. Lily breasted the storm of enquiries as best she could, explaining that she had
had an attack of faintness on her way back from Carry Fisher's; that, fearing she would not
have strength to reach home, she had gone to Miss Farish's instead; but that a quiet night
had restored her, and that she had no need of a doctor.

This was a relief to Mrs. Peniston, who could give herself up to her own symptoms, and Lily
was advised to go and lie down, her aunt's panacea for all physical and moral disorders. In
the solitude of her own room she was brought back to a sharp contemplation of facts. Her daylight
view of them necessarily differed from the cloudy vision of the night. The winged furies were
now prowling gossips who dropped in on each other for tea. But her fears seemed the uglier,
thus shorn of their vagueness; and besides, she had to act, not rave. For the first time she
forced herself to reckon up the exact amount of her debt to Trenor; and the result of this
hateful computation was the discovery that she had, in all, received nine thousand dollars
from him. The flimsy pretext on which it had been given and received shrivelled up in the blaze
of her shame: she knew that not a penny of it was her own, and that to restore her self-respect
she must at once repay the whole amount. The inability thus to solace her outraged feelings
gave her a paralyzing sense of insignificance. She was realizing for the first time that a
woman's dignity may cost more to keep up than her carriage; and that the maintenance of a moral
attribute should be dependent on dollars and cents, made the world appear a more sordid place
than she had conceived it.

After luncheon, when Grace Stepney's prying eyes had been removed, Lily asked for a word with
her aunt. The two ladies went upstairs to the sitting-room, where Mrs. Peniston seated herself
in her black satin arm-chair tufted with yellow buttons, beside a bead-work table bearing a
bronze box with a miniature of Beatrice Cenci in the lid. Lily felt for these objects the same
distaste which the prisoner may entertain for the fittings of the court-room. It was here that
her aunt received her rare confidences, and the pink-eyed smirk of the turbaned Beatrice was
associated in her mind with the gradual fading of the smile from Mrs. Peniston's lips. That
lady's dread of a scene gave her an inexorableness which the greatest strength of character
could not have produced, since it was independent of all considerations of right or wrong;
and knowing this, Lily seldom ventured to assail it. She had never felt less like making the
attempt than on the present occasion; but she had sought in vain for any other means of escape
from an intolerable situation.

Mrs. Peniston examined her critically. "You're a bad colour, Lily: this incessant rushing about
is beginning to tell on you," she said.

Miss Bart saw an opening. "I don't think it's that, Aunt Julia; I've had worries," she replied.

"Ah," said Mrs. Peniston, shutting her lips with the snap of a purse closing against a beggar.

"I'm sorry to bother you with them," Lily continued, "but I really believe my faintness last
night was brought on partly by anxious thoughts--"

"I should have said Carry Fisher's cook was enough to account for it. She has a woman who was
with Maria Melson in 1891--the spring of the year we went to Aix--and I remember dining there
two days before we sailed, and feeling SURE the coppers hadn't been scoured."

"I don't think I ate much; I can't eat or sleep." Lily paused, and then said abruptly: "The
fact is, Aunt Julia, I owe some money."

Mrs. Peniston's face clouded perceptibly, but did not express the astonishment her niece had
expected. She was silent, and Lily was forced to continue: "I have been foolish----"

"No doubt you have: extremely foolish," Mrs. Peniston interposed.  "I fail to see how any one
with your income, and no expenses--not to mention the handsome presents I've always given you----"

"Oh, you've been most generous, Aunt Julia; I shall never forget your kindness. But perhaps
you don't quite realize the expense a girl is put to nowadays----"

"I don't realize that YOU are put to any expense except for your clothes and your railway fares.
I expect you to be handsomely dressed; but I paid Celeste's bill for you last October."

Lily hesitated: her aunt's implacable memory had never been more inconvenient. "You were as
kind as possible; but I have had to get a few things since----"

"What kind of things? Clothes? How much have you spent? Let me see the bill--I daresay the
woman is swindling you."

"Oh, no, I think not: clothes have grown so frightfully expensive; and one needs so many different
kinds, with country visits, and golf and skating, and Aiken and Tuxedo----"

"Let me see the bill," Mrs. Peniston repeated.

Lily hesitated again. In the first place, Mme. Celeste had not yet sent in her account, and
secondly, the amount it represented was only a fraction of the sum that Lily needed.

"She hasn't sent in the bill for my winter things, but I KNOW it's large; and there are one
or two other things; I've been careless and imprudent--I'm frightened to think of what I owe----"

She raised the troubled loveliness of her face to Mrs. Peniston, vainly hoping that a sight
so moving to the other sex might not be without effect upon her own. But the effect produced
was that of making Mrs. Peniston shrink back apprehensively.

"Really, Lily, you are old enough to manage your own affairs, and after frightening me to death
by your performance of last night you might at least choose a better time to worry me with
such matters." Mrs. Peniston glanced at the clock, and swallowed a tablet of digitalis. "If
you owe Celeste another thousand, she may send me her account," she added, as though to end
the discussion at any cost.

"I am very sorry, Aunt Julia; I hate to trouble you at such a time; but I have really no choice--I
ought to have spoken sooner--I owe a great deal more than a thousand dollars."

"A great deal more? Do you owe two? She must have robbed you!"

"I told you it was not only Celeste. I--there are other bills--more pressing--that must be
settled."

"What on earth have you been buying? Jewelry? You must have gone off your head," said Mrs.
Peniston with asperity. "But if you have run into debt, you must suffer the consequences, and
put aside your monthly income till your bills are paid. If you stay quietly here until next
spring, instead of racing about all over the country, you will have no expenses at all, and
surely in four or five months you can settle the rest of your bills if I pay the dress-maker now."

Lily was again silent. She knew she could not hope to extract even a thousand dollars from
Mrs. Peniston on the mere plea of paying Celeste's bill: Mrs. Peniston would expect to go over
the dress-maker's account, and would make out the cheque to her and not to Lily. And yet the
money must be obtained before the day was over!

"The debts I speak of are--different--not like tradesmen's bills," she began confusedly; but
Mrs. Peniston's look made her almost afraid to continue. Could it be that her aunt suspected
anything? The idea precipitated Lily's avowal.

"The fact is, I've played cards a good deal--bridge; the women all do it; girls too--it's expected.
Sometimes I've won--won a good deal--but lately I've been unlucky--and of course such debts
can't be paid off gradually----"

She paused: Mrs. Peniston's face seemed to be petrifying as she listened.

"Cards--you've played cards for money? It's true, then: when I was told so I wouldn't believe
it. I won't ask if the other horrors I was told were true too; I've heard enough for the state
of my nerves. When I think of the example you've had in this house! But I suppose it's your
foreign bringing-up--no one knew where your mother picked up her friends. And her Sundays were
a scandal--that I know."

Mrs. Peniston wheeled round suddenly. "You play cards on Sunday?"

Lily flushed with the recollection of certain rainy Sundays at Bellomont and with the Dorsets.

"You're hard on me, Aunt Julia: I have never really cared for cards, but a girl hates to be
thought priggish and superior, and one drifts into doing what the others do. I've had a dreadful
lesson, and if you'll help me out this time I promise you--"

Mrs. Peniston raised her hand warningly. "You needn't make any promises: it's unnecessary.
When I offered you a home I didn't undertake to pay your gambling debts."

"Aunt Julia! You don't mean that you won't help me?"

"I shall certainly not do anything to give the impression that I countenance your behaviour.
If you really owe your dress-maker, I will settle with her--beyond that I recognize no obligation
to assume your debts."

Lily had risen, and stood pale and quivering before her aunt.  Pride stormed in her, but humiliation
forced the cry from her lips: "Aunt Julia, I shall be disgraced--I--" But she could go no farther.
If her aunt turned such a stony ear to the fiction of the gambling debts, in what spirit would
she receive the terrible avowal of the truth?

"I consider that you ARE disgraced, Lily: disgraced by your conduct far more than by its results.
You say your friends have persuaded you to play cards with them; well, they may as well learn
a lesson too. They can probably afford to lose a little money--and at any rate, I am not going
to waste any of mine in paying them. And now I must ask you to leave me--this scene has been
extremely painful, and I have my own health to consider.  Draw down the blinds, please; and
tell Jennings I will see no one this afternoon but Grace Stepney."

Lily went up to her own room and bolted the door. She was trembling with fear and anger--the
rush of the furies' wings was in her ears. She walked up and down the room with blind irregular
steps. The last door of escape was closed--she felt herself shut in with her dishonour.

Suddenly her wild pacing brought her before the clock on the chimney-piece. Its hands stood
at half-past three, and she remembered that Selden was to come to her at four. She had meant
to put him off with a word--but now her heart leaped at the thought of seeing him. Was there
not a promise of rescue in his love? As she had lain at Gerty's side the night before, she
had thought of his coming, and of the sweetness of weeping out her pain upon his breast. Of
course she had meant to clear herself of its consequences before she met him--she had never
really doubted that Mrs. Peniston would come to her aid. And she had felt, even in the full
storm of her misery, that Selden's love could not be her ultimate refuge; only it would be
so sweet to take a moment's shelter there, while she gathered fresh strength to go on.

But now his love was her only hope, and as she sat alone with her wretchedness the thought
of confiding in him became as seductive as the river's flow to the suicide. The first plunge
would be terrible--but afterward, what blessedness might come! She remembered Gerty's words:
"I know him--he will help you"; and her mind clung to them as a sick person might cling to
a healing relic. Oh, if he really understood--if he would help her to gather up her broken
life, and put it together in some new semblance in which no trace of the past should remain!
He had always made her feel that she was worthy of better things, and she had never been in
greater need of such solace. Once and again she shrank at the thought of imperilling his love
by her confession: for love was what she needed--it would take the glow of passion to weld
together the shattered fragments of her self-esteem. But she recurred to Gerty's words and
held fast to them. She was sure that Gerty knew Selden's feeling for her, and it had never
dawned upon her blindness that Gerty's own judgment of him was coloured by emotions far more
ardent than her own.

Four o'clock found her in the drawing-room: she was sure that Selden would be punctual. But
the hour came and passed--it moved on feverishly, measured by her impatient heart-beats. She
had time to take a fresh survey of her wretchedness, and to fluctuate anew between the impulse
to confide in Selden and the dread of destroying his illusions.  But as the minutes passed
the need of throwing herself on his comprehension became more urgent: she could not bear the
weight of her misery alone. There would be a perilous moment, perhaps: but could she not trust
to her beauty to bridge it over, to land her safe in the shelter of his devotion?

But the hour sped on and Selden did not come. Doubtless he had been detained, or had misread
her hurriedly scrawled note, taking the four for a five. The ringing of the door-bell a few
minutes after five confirmed this supposition, and made Lily hastily resolve to write more
legibly in future. The sound of steps in the hall, and of the butler's voice preceding them,
poured fresh energy into her veins. She felt herself once more the alert and competent moulder
of emergencies, and the remembrance of her power over Selden flushed her with sudden confidence.
But when the drawing-room door opened it was Rosedale who came in.

The reaction caused her a sharp pang, but after a passing movement of irritation at the clumsiness
of fate, and at her own carelessness in not denying the door to all but Selden, she controlled
herself and greeted Rosedale amicably. It was annoying that Selden, when he came, should find
that particular visitor in possession, but Lily was mistress of the art of ridding herself
of superfluous company, and to her present mood Rosedale seemed distinctly negligible.

His own view of the situation forced itself upon her after a few moments' conversation. She
had caught at the Brys' entertainment as an easy impersonal subject, likely to tide them over
the interval till Selden appeared, but Mr. Rosedale, tenaciously planted beside the tea-table,
his hands in his pockets, his legs a little too freely extended, at once gave the topic a personal
turn.

"Pretty well done--well, yes, I suppose it was: Welly Bry's got his back up and don't mean
to let go till he's got the hang of the thing.  Of course, there were things here and there--things
Mrs. Fisher couldn't be expected to see to--the champagne wasn't cold, and the coats got mixed
in the coat-room. I would have spent more money on the music. But that's my character: if I
want a thing I'm willing to pay: I don't go up to the counter, and then wonder if the article's
worth the price. I wouldn't be satisfied to entertain like the Welly Brys; I'd want something
that would look more easy and natural, more as if I took it in my stride. And it takes just
two things to do that, Miss Bart: money, and the right woman to spend it."

He paused, and examined her attentively while she affected to rearrange the tea-cups.

"I've got the money," he continued, clearing his throat, "and what I want is the woman--and
I mean to have her too."

He leaned forward a little, resting his hands on the head of his walking-stick. He had seen
men of Ned Van Alstyne's type bring their hats and sticks into a drawing-room, and he thought
it added a touch of elegant familiarity to their appearance.

Lily was silent, smiling faintly, with her eyes absently resting on his face. She was in reality
reflecting that a declaration would take some time to make, and that Selden must surely appear
before the moment of refusal had been reached. Her brooding look, as of a mind withdrawn yet
not averted, seemed to Mr. Rosedale full of a subtle encouragement. He would not have liked
any evidence of eagerness.

"I mean to have her too," he repeated, with a laugh intended to strengthen his self-assurance.
"I generally HAVE got what I wanted in life, Miss Bart. I wanted money, and I've got more than
I know how to invest; and now the money doesn't seem to be of any account unless I can spend
it on the right woman. That's what I want to do with it: I want my wife to make all the other
women feel small. I'd never grudge a dollar that was spent on that. But it isn't every woman
can do it, no matter how much you spend on her. There was a girl in some history book who wanted
gold shields, or something, and the fellows threw 'em at her, and she was crushed under 'em:
they killed her. Well, that's true enough: some women looked buried under their jewelry. What
I want is a woman who'll hold her head higher the more diamonds I put on it.  And when I looked
at you the other night at the Brys', in that plain white dress, looking as if you had a crown
on, I said to myself: 'By gad, if she had one she'd wear it as if it grew on her.'"

Still Lily did not speak, and he continued, warming with his theme: "Tell you what it is, though,
that kind of woman costs more than all the rest of 'em put together. If a woman's going to
ignore her pearls, they want to be better than anybody else's--and so it is with everything
else. You know what I mean--you know it's only the showy things that are cheap. Well, I should
want my wife to be able to take the earth for granted if she wanted to. I know there's one
thing vulgar about money, and that's the thinking about it; and my wife would never have to
demean herself in that way." He paused, and then added, with an unfortunate lapse to an earlier
manner: "I guess you know the lady I've got in view, Miss Bart."

Lily raised her head, brightening a little under the challenge.  Even through the dark tumult
of her thoughts, the clink of Mr. Rosedale's millions had a faintly seductive note. Oh, for
enough of them to cancel her one miserable debt! But the man behind them grew increasingly
repugnant in the light of Selden's expected coming. The contrast was too grotesque: she could
scarcely suppress the smile it provoked. She decided that directness would be best.

"If you mean me, Mr. Rosedale, I am very grateful--very much flattered; but I don't know what
I have ever done to make you think--"

"Oh, if you mean you're not dead in love with me, I've got sense enough left to see that. And
I ain't talking to you as if you were--I presume I know the kind of talk that's expected under
those circumstances. I'm confoundedly gone on you--that's about the size of it--and I'm just
giving you a plain business statement of the consequences. You're not very fond of me--YET--but
you're fond of luxury, and style, and amusement, and of not having to worry about cash. You
like to have a good time, and not have to settle for it; and what I propose to do is to provide
for the good time and do the settling."

He paused, and she returned with a chilling smile: "You are mistaken in one point, Mr. Rosedale:
whatever I enjoy I am prepared to settle for."

She spoke with the intention of making him see that, if his words implied a tentative allusion
to her private affairs, she was prepared to meet and repudiate it. But if he recognized her
meaning it failed to abash him, and he went on in the same tone: "I didn't mean to give offence;
excuse me if I've spoken too plainly. But why ain't you straight with me--why do you put up
that kind of bluff? You know there've been times when you were bothered--damned bothered--and
as a girl gets older, and things keep moving along, why, before she knows it, the things she
wants are liable to move past her and not come back.  I don't say it's anywhere near that with
you yet; but you've had a taste of bothers that a girl like yourself ought never to have known
about, and what I'm offering you is the chance to turn your back on them once for all."

The colour burned in Lily's face as he ended; there was no mistaking the point he meant to
make, and to permit it to pass unheeded was a fatal confession of weakness, while to resent
it too openly was to risk offending him at a perilous moment.  Indignation quivered on her
lip; but it was quelled by the secret voice which warned her that she must not quarrel with
him. He knew too much about her, and even at the moment when it was essential that he should
show himself at his best, he did not scruple to let her see how much he knew. How then would
he use his power when her expression of contempt had dispelled his one motive for restraint?
Her whole future might hinge on her way of answering him: she had to stop and consider that,
in the stress of her other anxieties, as a breathless fugitive may have to pause at the cross-roads
and try to decide coolly which turn to take.

"You are quite right, Mr. Rosedale. I HAVE had bothers; and I am grateful to you for wanting
to relieve me of them. It is not always easy to be quite independent and self-respecting when
one is poor and lives among rich people; I have been careless about money, and have worried
about my bills. But I should be selfish and ungrateful if I made that a reason for accepting
all you offer, with no better return to make than the desire to be free from my anxieties.
You must give me time--time to think of your kindness--and of what I could give you in return
for it----"

She held out her hand with a charming gesture in which dismissal was shorn of its rigour. Its
hint of future leniency made Rosedale rise in obedience to it, a little flushed with his unhoped-for
success, and disciplined by the tradition of his blood to accept what was conceded, without
undue haste to press for more. Something in his prompt acquiescence frightened her; she felt
behind it the stored force of a patience that might subdue the strongest will. But at least
they had parted amicably, and he was out of the house without meeting Selden--Selden, whose
continued absence now smote her with a new alarm. Rosedale had remained over an hour, and she
understood that it was now too late to hope for Selden. He would write explaining his absence,
of course; there would be a note from him by the late post. But her confession would have to
be postponed; and the chill of the delay settled heavily on her fagged spirit.

It lay heavier when the postman's last ring brought no note for her, and she had to go upstairs
to a lonely night--a night as grim and sleepless as her tortured fancy had pictured it to Gerty.
She had never learned to live with her own thoughts, and to be confronted with them through
such hours of lucid misery made the confused wretchedness of her previous vigil seem easily
bearable.

Daylight disbanded the phantom crew, and made it clear to her that she would hear from Selden
before noon; but the day passed without his writing or coming. Lily remained at home, lunching
and dining alone with her aunt, who complained of flutterings of the heart, and talked icily
on general topics. Mrs. Peniston went to bed early, and when she had gone Lily sat down and
wrote a note to Selden. She was about to ring for a messenger to despatch it when her eye fell
on a paragraph in the evening paper which lay at her elbow: "Mr. Lawrence Selden was among
the passengers sailing this afternoon for Havana and the West Indies on the Windward Liner
Antilles."

She laid down the paper and sat motionless, staring at her note. She understood now that he
was never coming--that he had gone away because he was afraid that he might come.  She rose,
and walking across the floor stood gazing at herself for a long time in the brightly-lit mirror
above the mantel-piece.  The lines in her face came out terribly--she looked old; and when
a girl looks old to herself, how does she look to other people? She moved away, and began to
wander aimlessly about the room, fitting her steps with mechanical precision between the monstrous
roses of Mrs. Peniston's Axminster. Suddenly she noticed that the pen with which she had written
to Selden still rested against the uncovered inkstand. She seated herself again, and taking
out an envelope, addressed it rapidly to Rosedale. Then she laid out a sheet of paper, and
sat over it with suspended pen. It had been easy enough to write the date, and "Dear Mr. Rosedale"--but
after that her inspiration flagged. She meant to tell him to come to her, but the words refused
to shape themselves. At length she began: "I have been thinking----" then she laid the pen
down, and sat with her elbows on the table and her face hidden in her hands.

Suddenly she started up at the sound of the door-bell. It was not late--barely ten o'clock--and
there might still be a note from Selden, or a message--or he might be there himself, on the
other side of the door! The announcement of his sailing might have been a mistake--it might
be another Lawrence Selden who had gone to Havana--all these possibilities had time to flash
through her mind, and build up the conviction that she was after all to see or hear from him,
before the drawing-room door opened to admit a servant carrying a telegram.

Lily tore it open with shaking hands, and read Bertha Dorset's name below the message: "Sailing
unexpectedly tomorrow. Will you join us on a cruise in Mediterranean?"

                        BOOK TWO

Chapter 1

It came vividly to Selden on the Casino steps that Monte Carlo had, more than any other place
he knew, the gift of accommodating itself to each man's humour. His own, at the moment, lent
it a festive readiness of welcome that might well, in a disenchanted eye, have turned to paint
and facility. So frank an appeal for participation--so outspoken a recognition of the holiday
vein in human nature--struck refreshingly on a mind jaded by prolonged hard work in surroundings
made for the discipline of the senses.  As he surveyed the white square set in an exotic coquetry
of architecture, the studied tropicality of the gardens, the groups loitering in the foreground
against mauve mountains which suggested a sublime stage-setting forgotten in a hurried shifting
of scenes--as he took in the whole outspread effect of light and leisure, he felt a movement
of revulsion from the last few months of his life.

The New York winter had presented an interminable perspective of snow-burdened days, reaching
toward a spring of raw sunshine and furious air, when the ugliness of things rasped the eye
as the gritty wind ground into the skin. Selden, immersed in his work, had told himself that
external conditions did not matter to a man in his state, and that cold and ugliness were a
good tonic for relaxed sensibilities.  When an urgent case summoned him abroad to confer with
a client in Paris, he broke reluctantly with the routine of the office; and it was only now
that, having despatched his business, and slipped away for a week in the south, he began to
feel the renewed zest of spectatorship that is the solace of those who take an objective interest
in life.

The multiplicity of its appeals--the perpetual surprise of its contrasts and resemblances!
All these tricks and turns of the show were upon him with a spring as he descended the Casino
steps and paused on the pavement at its doors. He had not been abroad for seven years--and
what changes the renewed contact produced!  If the central depths were untouched, hardly a
pin-point of surface remained the same. And this was the very place to bring out the completeness
of the renewal. The sublimities, the perpetuities, might have left him as he was: but this
tent pitched for a day's revelry spread a roof of oblivion between himself and his fixed sky.

It was mid-April, and one felt that the revelry had reached its climax and that the desultory
groups in the square and gardens would soon dissolve and re-form in other scenes. Meanwhile
the last moments of the performance seemed to gain an added brightness from the hovering threat
of the curtain. The quality of the air, the exuberance of the flowers, the blue intensity of
sea and sky, produced the effect of a closing TABLEAU, when all the lights are turned on at
once. This impression was presently heightened by the way in which a consciously conspicuous
group of people advanced to the middle front, and stood before Selden with the air of the chief
performers gathered together by the exigencies of the final effect. Their appearance confirmed
the impression that the show had been staged regardless of expense, and emphasized its resemblance
to one of those "costume-plays" in which the protagonists walk through the passions without
displacing a drapery.  The ladies stood in unrelated attitudes calculated to isolate their
effects, and the men hung about them as irrelevantly as stage heroes whose tailors are named
in the programme. It was Selden himself who unwittingly fused the group by arresting the attention
of one of its members.

"Why, Mr. Selden!" Mrs. Fisher exclaimed in surprise; and with a gesture toward Mrs. Jack Stepney
and Mrs. Wellington Bry, she added plaintively: "We're starving to death because we can't decide
where to lunch."

Welcomed into their group, and made the confidant of their difficulty, Selden learned with
amusement that there were several places where one might miss something by not lunching, or
forfeit something by lunching; so that eating actually became a minor consideration on the
very spot consecrated to its rites.

"Of course one gets the best things at the TERRASSE--but that looks as if one hadn't any other
reason for being there: the Americans who don't know any one always rush for the best food.
And the Duchess of Beltshire has taken up Becassin's lately," Mrs. Bry earnestly summed up.

Mrs. Bry, to Mrs. Fisher's despair, had not progressed beyond the point of weighing her social
alternatives in public. She could not acquire the air of doing things because she wanted to,
and making her choice the final seal of their fitness.

Mr. Bry, a short pale man, with a business face and leisure clothes, met the dilemma hilariously.

"I guess the Duchess goes where it's cheapest, unless she can get her meal paid for. If you
offered to blow her off at the TERRASSE she'd turn up fast enough."

But Mrs. Jack Stepney interposed. "The Grand Dukes go to that little place at the Condamine.
Lord Hubert says it's the only restaurant in Europe where they can cook peas."

Lord Hubert Dacey, a slender shabby-looking man, with a charming worn smile, and the air of
having spent his best years in piloting the wealthy to the right restaurant, assented with
gentle emphasis: "It's quite that."

"PEAS?" said Mr. Bry contemptuously. "Can they cook terrapin? It just shows," he continued,
"what these European markets are, when a fellow can make a reputation cooking peas!"

Jack Stepney intervened with authority. "I don't know that I quite agree with Dacey: there's
a little hole in Paris, off the Quai Voltaire--but in any case, I can't advise the Condamine
GARGOTE; at least not with ladies."

Stepney, since his marriage, had thickened and grown prudish, as the Van Osburgh husbands were
apt to do; but his wife, to his surprise and discomfiture, had developed an earth-shaking fastness
of gait which left him trailing breathlessly in her wake.

"That's where we'll go then!" she declared, with a heavy toss of her plumage. "I'm so tired
of the TERRASSE: it's as dull as one of mother's dinners. And Lord Hubert has promised to tell
us who all the awful people are at the other place--hasn't he, Carry?  Now, Jack, don't look
so solemn!"

"Well," said Mrs. Bry, "all I want to know is who their dress-makers are."

"No doubt Dacey can tell you that too," remarked Stepney, with an ironic intention which the
other received with the light murmur, "I can at least FIND OUT, my dear fellow"; and Mrs. Bry
having declared that she couldn't walk another step, the party hailed two or three of the light
phaetons which hover attentively on the confines of the gardens, and rattled off in procession
toward the Condamine.

Their destination was one of the little restaurants overhanging the boulevard which dips steeply
down from Monte Carlo to the low intermediate quarter along the quay. From the window in which
they presently found themselves installed, they overlooked the intense blue curve of the harbour,
set between the verdure of twin promontories: to the right, the cliff of Monaco, topped by
the mediaeval silhouette of its church and castle, to the left the terraces and pinnacles of
the gambling-house. Between the two, the waters of the bay were furrowed by a light coming
and going of pleasure-craft, through which, just at the culminating moment of luncheon, the
majestic advance of a great steam-yacht drew the company's attention from the peas.

"By Jove, I believe that's the Dorsets back!" Stepney exclaimed; and Lord Hubert, dropping
his single eye-glass, corroborated: "It's the Sabrina--yes."

"So soon? They were to spend a month in Sicily," Mrs. Fisher observed.

"I guess they feel as if they had: there's only one up-to-date hotel in the whole place," said
Mr. Bry disparagingly.

"It was Ned Silverton's idea--but poor Dorset and Lily Bart must have been horribly bored."
Mrs. Fisher added in an undertone to Selden: "I do hope there hasn't been a row."

"It's most awfully jolly having Miss Bart back," said Lord Hubert, in his mild deliberate voice;
and Mrs. Bry added ingenuously: "I daresay the Duchess will dine with us, now that Lily's here."

"The Duchess admires her immensely: I'm sure she'd be charmed to have it arranged," Lord Hubert
agreed, with the professional promptness of the man accustomed to draw his profit from facilitating
social contacts: Selden was struck by the businesslike change in his manner.

"Lily has been a tremendous success here," Mrs. Fisher continued, still addressing herself
confidentially to Selden. "She looks ten years younger--I never saw her so handsome. Lady Skiddaw
took her everywhere in Cannes, and the Crown Princess of Macedonia had her to stop for a week
at Cimiez. People say that was one reason why Bertha whisked the yacht off to Sicily: the Crown
Princess didn't take much notice of her, and she couldn't bear to look on at Lily's triumph."

Selden made no reply. He was vaguely aware that Miss Bart was cruising in the Mediterranean
with the Dorsets, but it had not occurred to him that there was any chance of running across
her on the Riviera, where the season was virtually at an end. As he leaned back, silently contemplating
his filigree cup of Turkish coffee, he was trying to put some order in his thoughts, to tell
himself how the news of her nearness was really affecting him. He had a personal detachment
enabling him, even in moments of emotional high-pressure, to get a fairly clear view of his
feelings, and he was sincerely surprised by the disturbance which the sight of the Sabrina
had produced in him. He had reason to think that his three months of engrossing professional
work, following on the sharp shock of his disillusionment, had cleared his mind of its sentimental
vapours. The feeling he had nourished and given prominence to was one of thankfulness for his
escape: he was like a traveller so grateful for rescue from a dangerous accident that at first
he is hardly conscious of his bruises. Now he suddenly felt the latent ache, and realized that
after all he had not come off unhurt.

An hour later, at Mrs. Fisher's side in the Casino gardens, he was trying to find fresh reasons
for forgetting the injury received in the contemplation of the peril avoided. The party had
dispersed with the loitering indecision characteristic of social movements at Monte Carlo,
where the whole place, and the long gilded hours of the day, seem to offer an infinity of ways
of being idle. Lord Hubert Dacey had finally gone off in quest of the Duchess of Beltshire,
charged by Mrs. Bry with the delicate negotiation of securing that lady's presence at dinner,
the Stepneys had left for Nice in their motor-car, and Mr. Bry had departed to take his place
in the pigeon shooting match which was at the moment engaging his highest faculties.

Mrs. Bry, who had a tendency to grow red and stertorous after luncheon, had been judiciously
prevailed upon by Carry Fisher to withdraw to her hotel for an hour's repose; and Selden and
his companion were thus left to a stroll propitious to confidences. The stroll soon resolved
itself into a tranquil session on a bench overhung with laurel and Banksian roses, from which
they caught a dazzle of blue sea between marble balusters, and the fiery shafts of cactus-blossoms
shooting meteor-like from the rock. The soft shade of their niche, and the adjacent glitter
of the air, were conducive to an easy lounging mood, and to the smoking of many cigarettes;
and Selden, yielding to these influences, suffered Mrs. Fisher to unfold to him the history
of her recent experiences. She had come abroad with the Welly Brys at the moment when fashion
flees the inclemency of the New York spring. The Brys, intoxicated by their first success,
already thirsted for new kingdoms, and Mrs. Fisher, viewing the Riviera as an easy introduction
to London society, had guided their course thither. She had affiliations of her own in every
capital, and a facility for picking them up again after long absences; and the carefully disseminated
rumour of the Brys' wealth had at once gathered about them a group of cosmopolitan pleasure-seekers.

"But things are not going as well as I expected," Mrs. Fisher frankly admitted. "It's all very
well to say that every body with money can get into society; but it would be truer to say that
NEARLY everybody can. And the London market is so glutted with new Americans that, to succeed
there now, they must be either very clever or awfully queer. The Brys are neither. HE would
get on well enough if she'd let him alone; they like his slang and his brag and his blunders.
But Louisa spoils it all by trying to repress him and put herself forward. If she'd be natural
herself--fat and vulgar and bouncing--it would be all right; but as soon as she meets anybody
smart she tries to be slender and queenly.  She tried it with the Duchess of Beltshire and
Lady Skiddaw, and they fled. I've done my best to make her see her mistake--I've said to her
again and again: 'Just let yourself go, Louisa'; but she keeps up the humbug even with me--I
believe she keeps on being queenly in her own room, with the door shut.

"The worst of it is," Mrs. Fisher went on, "that she thinks it's all MY fault. When the Dorsets
turned up here six weeks ago, and everybody began to make a fuss about Lily Bart, I could see
Louisa thought that if she'd had Lily in tow instead of me she would have been hob-nobbing
with all the royalties by this time. She doesn't realize that it's Lily's beauty that does
it: Lord Hubert tells me Lily is thought even handsomer than when he knew her at Aix ten years
ago. It seems she was tremendously admired there. An Italian Prince, rich and the real thing,
wanted to marry her; but just at the critical moment a good-looking step-son turned up, and
Lily was silly enough to flirt with him while her marriage-settlements with the step-father
were being drawn up. Some people said the young man did it on purpose. You can fancy the scandal:
there was an awful row between the men, and people began to look at Lily so queerly that Mrs.
Peniston had to pack up and finish her cure elsewhere. Not that SHE ever understood: to this
day she thinks that Aix didn't suit her, and mentions her having been sent there as proof of
the incompetence of French doctors. That's Lily all over, you know: she works like a slave
preparing the ground and sowing her seed; but the day she ought to be reaping the harvest she
over-sleeps herself or goes off on a picnic."

Mrs. Fisher paused and looked reflectively at the deep shimmer of sea between the cactus-flowers.
"Sometimes," she added, "I think it's just flightiness--and sometimes I think it's because,
at heart, she despises the things she's trying for. And it's the difficulty of deciding that
makes her such an interesting study." She glanced tentatively at Selden's motionless profile,
and resumed with a slight sigh: "Well, all I can say is, I wish she'd give ME some of her discarded
opportunities.  I wish we could change places now, for instance. She could make a very good
thing out of the Brys if she managed them properly, and I should know just how to look after
George Dorset while Bertha is reading Verlaine with Neddy Silverton."

She met Selden's sound of protest with a sharp derisive glance.  "Well, what's the use of mincing
matters? We all know that's what Bertha brought her abroad for. When Bertha wants to have a
good time she has to provide occupation for George. At first I thought Lily was going to play
her cards well THIS time, but there are rumours that Bertha is jealous of her success here
and at Cannes, and I shouldn't be surprised if there were a break any day. Lily's only safeguard
is that Bertha needs her badly--oh, very badly. The Silverton affair is in the acute stage:
it's necessary that George's attention should be pretty continuously distracted. And I'm bound
to say Lily DOES distract it: I believe he'd marry her tomorrow if he found out there was anything
wrong with Bertha. But you know him--he's as blind as he's jealous; and of course Lily's present
business is to keep him blind. A clever woman might know just the right moment to tear off
the bandage: but Lily isn't clever in that way, and when George does open his eyes she'll probably
contrive not to be in his line of vision."

Selden tossed away his cigarette. "By Jove--it's time for my train," he exclaimed, with a glance
at his watch; adding, in reply to Mrs. Fisher's surprised comment--"Why, I thought of course
you were at Monte!"--a murmured word to the effect that he was making Nice his head-quarters.

"The worst of it is, she snubs the Brys now," he heard irrelevantly flung after him.

Ten minutes later, in the high-perched bedroom of an hotel overlooking the Casino, he was tossing
his effects into a couple of gaping portmanteaux, while the porter waited outside to transport
them to the cab at the door. It took but a brief plunge down the steep white road to the station
to land him safely in the afternoon express for Nice; and not till he was installed in the
corner of an empty carriage, did he exclaim to himself, with a reaction of self-contempt: "What
the deuce am I running away from?"

The pertinence of the question checked Selden's fugitive impulse before the train had started.
It was ridiculous to be flying like an emotional coward from an infatuation his reason had
conquered.  He had instructed his bankers to forward some important business letters to Nice,
and at Nice he would quietly await them. He was already annoyed with himself for having left
Monte Carlo, where he had intended to pass the week which remained to him before sailing; but
it would now be difficult to return on his steps without an appearance of inconsistency from
which his pride recoiled. In his inmost heart he was not sorry to put himself beyond the probability
of meeting Miss Bart. Completely as he had detached himself from her, he could not yet regard
her merely as a social instance; and viewed in a more personal ways she was not likely to be
a reassuring object of study. Chance encounters, or even the repeated mention of her name,
would send his thoughts back into grooves from which he had resolutely detached them; whereas,
if she could be entirely excluded from his life, the pressure of new and varied impressions,
with which no thought of her was connected, would soon complete the work of separation. Mrs.
Fisher's conversation had, indeed, operated to that end; but the treatment was too painful
to be voluntarily chosen while milder remedies were untried; and Selden thought he could trust
himself to return gradually to a reasonable view of Miss Bart, if only he did not see her.

Having reached the station early, he had arrived at this point in his reflections before the
increasing throng on the platform warned him that he could not hope to preserve his privacy;
the next moment there was a hand on the door, and he turned to confront the very face he was
fleeing.

Miss Bart, glowing with the haste of a precipitate descent upon the train, headed a group composed
of the Dorsets, young Silverton and Lord Hubert Dacey, who had barely time to spring into the
carriage, and envelop Selden in ejaculations of surprise and welcome, before the whistle of
departure sounded. The party, it appeared, were hastening to Nice in response to a sudden summons
to dine with the Duchess of Beltshire and to see the water-fete in the bay; a plan evidently
improvised--in spite of Lord Hubert's protesting "Oh, I say, you know,"--for the express purpose
of defeating Mrs. Bry's endeavour to capture the Duchess.

During the laughing relation of this manoeuvre, Selden had time for a rapid impression of Miss
Bart, who had seated herself opposite to him in the golden afternoon light. Scarcely three
months had elapsed since he had parted from her on the threshold of the Brys' conservatory;
but a subtle change had passed over the quality of her beauty. Then it had had a transparency
through which the fluctuations of the spirit were sometimes tragically visible; now its impenetrable
surface suggested a process of crystallization which had fused her whole being into one hard
brilliant substance. The change had struck Mrs. Fisher as a rejuvenation: to Selden it seemed
like that moment of pause and arrest when the warm fluidity of youth is chilled into its final
shape.

He felt it in the way she smiled on him, and in the readiness and competence with which, flung
unexpectedly into his presence, she took up the thread of their intercourse as though that
thread had not been snapped with a violence from which he still reeled. Such facility sickened
him--but he told himself that it was with the pang which precedes recovery. Now he would really
get well--would eject the last drop of poison from his blood. Already he felt himself calmer
in her presence than he had learned to be in the thought of her. Her assumptions and elisions,
her short-cuts and long DETOURS, the skill with which she contrived to meet him at a point
from which no inconvenient glimpses of the past were visible, suggested what opportunities
she had had for practising such arts since their last meeting. He felt that she had at last
arrived at an understanding with herself: had made a pact with her rebellious impulses, and
achieved a uniform system of self-government, under which all vagrant tendencies were either
held captive or forced into the service of the state.

And he saw other things too in her manner: saw how it had adjusted itself to the hidden intricacies
of a situation in which, even after Mrs. Fisher's elucidating flashes, he still felt himself
agrope. Surely Mrs. Fisher could no longer charge Miss Bart with neglecting her opportunities!
To Selden's exasperated observation she was only too completely alive to them. She was "perfect"
to every one: subservient to Bertha's anxious predominance, good-naturedly watchful of Dorset's
moods, brightly companionable to Silverton and Dacey, the latter of whom met her on an evident
footing of old admiration, while young Silverton, portentously self-absorbed, seemed conscious
of her only as of something vaguely obstructive. And suddenly, as Selden noted the fine shades
of manner by which she harmonized herself with her surroundings, it flashed on him that, to
need such adroit handling, the situation must indeed be desperate. She was on the edge of something--that
was the impression left with him.  He seemed to see her poised on the brink of a chasm, with
one graceful foot advanced to assert her unconsciousness that the ground was failing her.

On the Promenade des Anglais, where Ned Silverton hung on him for the half hour before dinner,
he received a deeper impression of the general insecurity. Silverton was in a mood of Titanic
pessimism. How any one could come to such a damned hole as the Riviera--any one with a grain
of imagination--with the whole Mediterranean to choose from: but then, if one's estimate of
a place depended on the way they broiled a spring chicken! Gad!  what a study might be made
of the tyranny of the stomach--the way a sluggish liver or insufficient gastric juices might
affect the whole course of the universe, overshadow everything in reach--chronic dyspepsia
ought to be among the "statutory causes"; a woman's life might be ruined by a man's inability
to digest fresh bread. Grotesque? Yes--and tragic--like most absurdities. There's nothing grimmer
than the tragedy that wears a comic mask.... Where was he? Oh--the reason they chucked Sicily
and rushed back? Well--partly, no doubt, Miss Bart's desire to get back to bridge and smartness.
Dead as a stone to art and poetry--the light never WAS on sea or land for her! And of course
she persuaded Dorset that the Italian food was bad for him. Oh, she could make him believe
anything--ANYTHING! Mrs. Dorset was aware of it--oh, perfectly: nothing SHE didn't see! But
she could hold her tongue--she'd had to, often enough. Miss Bart was an intimate friend--she
wouldn't hear a word against her. Only it hurts a woman's pride--there are some things one
doesn't get used to . . . All this in confidence, of course? Ah--and there were the ladies
signalling from the balcony of the hotel.... He plunged across the Promenade, leaving Selden
to a meditative cigar.

The conclusions it led him to were fortified, later in the evening, by some of those faint
corroborative hints that generate a light of their own in the dusk of a doubting mind. Selden,
stumbling on a chance acquaintance, had dined with him, and adjourned, still in his company,
to the brightly lit Promenade, where a line of crowded stands commanded the glittering darkness
of the waters. The night was soft and persuasive. Overhead hung a summer sky furrowed with
the rush of rockets; and from the east a late moon, pushing up beyond the lofty bend of the
coast, sent across the bay a shaft of brightness which paled to ashes in the red glitter of
the illuminated boats. Down the lantern-hung Promenade, snatches of band-music floated above
the hum of the crowd and the soft tossing of boughs in dusky gardens; and between these gardens
and the backs of the stands there flowed a stream of people in whom the vociferous carnival
mood seemed tempered by the growing languor of the season.

Selden and his companion, unable to get seats on one of the stands facing the bay, had wandered
for a while with the throng, and then found a point of vantage on a high garden-parapet above
the Promenade.  Thence they caught but a triangular glimpse of the water, and of the flashing
play of boats across its surface; but the crowd in the street was under their immediate view,
and seemed to Selden, on the whole, of more interest than the show itself. After a while, however,
he wearied of his perch and, dropping alone to the pavement, pushed his way to the first corner
and turned into the moonlit silence of a side street. Long garden-walls overhung by trees made
a dark boundary to the pavement; an empty cab trailed along the deserted thoroughfare, and
presently Selden saw two persons emerge from the opposite shadows, signal to the cab, and drive
off in it toward the centre of the town. The moonlight touched them as they paused to enter
the carriage, and he recognized Mrs. Dorset and young Silverton.

Beneath the nearest lamp-post he glanced at his watch and saw that the time was close on eleven.
He took another cross street, and without breasting the throng on the Promenade, made his way
to the fashionable club which overlooks that thoroughfare. Here, amid the blaze of crowded
baccarat tables, he caught sight of Lord Hubert Dacey, seated with his habitual worn smile
behind a rapidly dwindling heap of gold. The heap being in due course wiped out, Lord Hubert
rose with a shrug, and joining Selden, adjourned with him to the deserted terrace of the club.
It was now past midnight, and the throng on the stands was dispersing, while the long trails
of red-lit boats scattered and faded beneath a sky repossessed by the tranquil splendour of
the moon.

Lord Hubert looked at his watch. "By Jove, I promised to join the Duchess for supper at the
LONDON HOUSE; but it's past twelve, and I suppose they've all scattered. The fact is, I lost
them in the crowd soon after dinner, and took refuge here, for my sins. They had seats on one
of the stands, but of course they couldn't stop quiet: the Duchess never can. She and Miss
Bart went off in quest of what they call adventures--gad, it ain't their fault if they don't
have some queer ones!" He added tentatively, after pausing to grope for a cigarette: "Miss
Bart's an old friend of yours, I believe? So she told me.--Ah, thanks--I don't seem to have
one left." He lit Selden's proffered cigarette, and continued, in his high-pitched drawling
tone: "None of my business, of course, but I didn't introduce her to the Duchess.  Charming
woman, the Duchess, you understand; and a very good friend of mine; but RATHER a liberal education."

Selden received this in silence, and after a few puffs Lord Hubert broke out again: "Sort of
thing one can't communicate to the young lady--though young ladies nowadays are so competent
to judge for themselves; but in this case--I'm an old friend too, you know . . . and there
seemed no one else to speak to. The whole situation's a little mixed, as I see it--but there
used to be an aunt somewhere, a diffuse and innocent person, who was great at bridging over
chasms she didn't see . . . Ah, in New York, is she? Pity New York's such a long way off!"

Chapter 2

Miss Bart, emerging late the next morning from her cabin, found herself alone on the deck of
the Sabrina. The cushioned chairs, disposed expectantly under the wide awning, showed no signs
of recent occupancy, and she presently learned from a steward that Mrs. Dorset had not yet
appeared, and that the gentlemen--separately--had gone ashore as soon as they had breakfasted.
Supplied with these facts, Lily leaned awhile over the side, giving herself up to a leisurely
enjoyment of the spectacle before her. Unclouded sunlight enveloped sea and shore in a bath
of purest radiancy. The purpling waters drew a sharp white line of foam at the base of the
shore; against its irregular eminences, hotels and villas flashed from the greyish verdure
of olive and eucalyptus; and the background of bare and finely-pencilled mountains quivered
in a pale intensity of light.

How beautiful it was--and how she loved beauty! She had always felt that her sensibility in
this direction made up for certain obtusenesses of feeling of which she was less proud; and
during the last three months she had indulged it passionately. The Dorsets' invitation to go
abroad with them had come as an almost miraculous release from crushing difficulties; and her
faculty for renewing herself in new scenes, and casting off problems of conduct as easily as
the surroundings in which they had arisen, made the mere change from one place to another seem,
not merely a postponement, but a solution of her troubles. Moral complications existed for
her only in the environment that had produced them; she did not mean to slight or ignore them,
but they lost their reality when they changed their background. She could not have remained
in New York without repaying the money she owed to Trenor; to acquit herself of that odious
debt she might even have faced a marriage with Rosedale; but the accident of placing the Atlantic
between herself and her obligations made them dwindle out of sight as if they had been milestones
and she had travelled past them.

Her two months on the Sabrina had been especially calculated to aid this illusion of distance.
She had been plunged into new scenes, and had found in them a renewal of old hopes and ambitions.
The cruise itself charmed her as a romantic adventure.  She was vaguely touched by the names
and scenes amid which she moved, and had listened to Ned Silverton reading Theocritus by moonlight,
as the yacht rounded the Sicilian promontories, with a thrill of the nerves that confirmed
her belief in her intellectual superiority. But the weeks at Cannes and Nice had really given
her more pleasure. The gratification of being welcomed in high company, and of making her own
ascendency felt there, so that she found herself figuring once more as the "beautiful Miss
Bart" in the interesting journal devoted to recording the least movements of her cosmopolitan
companions--all these experiences tended to throw into the extreme background of memory the
prosaic and sordid difficulties from which she had escaped.

If she was faintly aware of fresh difficulties ahead, she was sure of her ability to meet them:
it was characteristic of her to feel that the only problems she could not solve were those
with which she was familiar. Meanwhile she could honestly be proud of the skill with which
she had adapted herself to somewhat delicate conditions. She had reason to think that she had
made herself equally necessary to her host and hostess; and if only she had seen any perfectly
irreproachable means of drawing a financial profit from the situation, there would have been
no cloud on her horizon. The truth was that her funds, as usual, were inconveniently low; and
to neither Dorset nor his wife could this vulgar embarrassment be safely hinted. Still, the
need was not a pressing one; she could worry along, as she had so often done before, with the
hope of some happy change of fortune to sustain her; and meanwhile life was gay and beautiful
and easy, and she was conscious of figuring not unworthily in such a setting.

She was engaged to breakfast that morning with the Duchess of Beltshire, and at twelve o'clock
she asked to be set ashore in the gig.  Before this she had sent her maid to enquire if she
might see Mrs. Dorset; but the reply came back that the latter was tired, and trying to sleep.
Lily thought she understood the reason of the rebuff. Her hostess had not been included in
the Duchess's invitation, though she herself had made the most loyal efforts in that direction.
But her grace was impervious to hints, and invited or omitted as she chose. It was not Lily's
fault if Mrs. Dorset's complicated attitudes did not fall in with the Duchess's easy gait.
The Duchess, who seldom explained herself, had not formulated her objection beyond saying:
"She's rather a bore, you know. The only one of your friends I like is that little Mr. Bry--HE'S
funny--" but Lily knew enough not to press the point, and was not altogether sorry to be thus
distinguished at her friend's expense. Bertha certainly HAD grown tiresome since she had taken
to poetry and Ned Silverton.

On the whole, it was a relief to break away now and then from the Sabrina; and the Duchess's
little breakfast, organized by Lord Hubert with all his usual virtuosity, was the pleasanter
to Lily for not including her travelling-companions. Dorset, of late, had grown more than usually
morose and incalculable, and Ned Silverton went about with an air that seemed to challenge
the universe. The freedom and lightness of the ducal intercourse made an agreeable change from
these complications, and Lily was tempted, after luncheon, to adjourn in the wake of her companions
to the hectic atmosphere of the Casino. She did not mean to play; her diminished pocket-money
offered small scope for the adventure; but it amused her to sit on a divan, under the doubtful
protection of the Duchess's back, while the latter hung above her stakes at a neighbouring table.

The rooms were packed with the gazing throng which, in the afternoon hours, trickles heavily
between the tables, like the Sunday crowd in a lion-house. In the stagnant flow of the mass,
identities were hardly distinguishable; but Lily presently saw Mrs. Bry cleaving her determined
way through the doors, and, in the broad wake she left, the light figure of Mrs. Fisher bobbing
after her like a row-boat at the stern of a tug. Mrs. Bry pressed on, evidently animated by
the resolve to reach a certain point in the rooms; but Mrs. Fisher, as she passed Lily, broke
from her towing-line, and let herself float to the girl's side.

"Lose her?" she echoed the latter's query, with an indifferent glance at Mrs. Bry's retreating
back. "I daresay--it doesn't matter: I HAVE lost her already." And, as Lily exclaimed, she
added: "We had an awful row this morning. You know, of course, that the Duchess chucked her
at dinner last night, and she thinks it was my fault--my want of management. The worst of it
is, the message--just a mere word by telephone--came so late that the dinner HAD to be paid
for; and Becassin HAD run it up--it had been so drummed into him that the Duchess was coming!"
Mrs. Fisher indulged in a faint laugh at the remembrance. "Paying for what she doesn't get
rankles so dreadfully with Louisa: I can't make her see that it's one of the preliminary steps
to getting what you haven't paid for--and as I was the nearest thing to smash, she smashed
me to atoms, poor dear!"

Lily murmured her commiseration. Impulses of sympathy came naturally to her, and it was instinctive
to proffer her help to Mrs. Fisher.

"If there's anything I can do--if it's only a question of meeting the Duchess! I heard her
say she thought Mr. Bry amusing----"

But Mrs. Fisher interposed with a decisive gesture. "My dear, I have my pride: the pride of
my trade. I couldn't manage the Duchess, and I can't palm off your arts on Louisa Bry as mine.
I've taken the final step: I go to Paris tonight with the Sam Gormers. THEY'RE still in the
elementary stage; an Italian Prince is a great deal more than a Prince to them, and they're
always on the brink of taking a courier for one.  To save them from that is my present mission."
She laughed again at the picture. "But before I go I want to make my last will and testament--I
want to leave you the Brys."

"Me?" Miss Bart joined in her amusement. "It's charming of you to remember me, dear; but really----"

"You're already so well provided for?" Mrs. Fisher flashed a sharp glance at her. "ARE you,
though, Lily--to the point of rejecting my offer?"

Miss Bart coloured slowly. "What I really meant was, that the Brys wouldn't in the least care
to be so disposed of."

Mrs. Fisher continued to probe her embarrassment with an unflinching eye. "What you really
meant was that you've snubbed the Brys horribly; and you know that they know----"

"Carry!"

"Oh, on certain sides Louisa bristles with perceptions. If you'd even managed to have them
asked once on the Sabrina--especially when royalties were coming! But it's not too late," she
ended earnestly, "it's not too late for either of you."

Lily smiled. "Stay over, and I'll get the Duchess to dine with them."

"I shan't stay over--the Gormers have paid for my SALON-LIT," said Mrs. Fisher with simplicity.
"But get the Duchess to dine with them all the same."

Lily's smile again flowed into a slight laugh: her friend's importunity was beginning to strike
her as irrelevant. "I'm sorry I have been negligent about the Brys----" she began.

"Oh, as to the Brys--it's you I'm thinking of," said Mrs. Fisher abruptly. She paused, and
then, bending forward, with a lowered voice: "You know we all went on to Nice last night when
the Duchess chucked us. It was Louisa's idea--I told her what I thought of it."

Miss Bart assented. "Yes--I caught sight of you on the way back, at the station."

"Well, the man who was in the carriage with you and George Dorset--that horrid little Dabham
who does 'Society Notes from the Riviera'--had been dining with us at Nice. And he's telling
everybody that you and Dorset came back alone after midnight."

"Alone--? When he was with us?" Lily laughed, but her laugh faded into gravity under the prolonged
implication of Mrs. Fisher's look. "We DID come back alone--if that's so very dreadful! But
whose fault was it?  The Duchess was spending the night at Cimiez with the Crown Princess;
Bertha got bored with the show, and went off early, promising to meet us at the station. We
turned up on time, but she didn't--she didn't turn up at all!"

Miss Bart made this announcement in the tone of one who presents, with careless assurance,
a complete vindication; but Mrs. Fisher received it in a manner almost inconsequent. She seemed
to have lost sight of her friend's part in the incident: her inward vision had taken another slant.

"Bertha never turned up at all? Then how on earth did she get back?"

"Oh, by the next train, I suppose; there were two extra ones for the FETE. At any rate, I know
she's safe on the yacht, though I haven't yet seen her; but you see it was not my fault," Lily
summed up.

"Not your fault that Bertha didn't turn up? My poor child, if only you don't have to pay for
it!" Mrs. Fisher rose--she had seen Mrs. Bry surging back in her direction. "There's Louisa,
and I must be off--oh, we're on the best of terms externally; we're lunching together; but
at heart it's ME she's lunching on," she explained; and with a last hand-clasp and a last look,
she added: "Remember, I leave her to you; she's hovering now, ready to take you in."

Lily carried the impression of Mrs. Fisher's leave-taking away with her from the Casino doors.
She had accomplished, before leaving, the first step toward her reinstatement in Mrs. Bry's
good graces. An affable advance--a vague murmur that they must see more of each other--an allusive
glance to a near future that was felt to include the Duchess as well as the Sabrina--how easily
it was all done, if one possessed the knack of doing it!  She wondered at herself, as she had
so often wondered, that, possessing the knack, she did not more consistently exercise it. 
But sometimes she was forgetful--and sometimes, could it be that she was proud? Today, at any
rate, she had been vaguely conscious of a reason for sinking her pride, had in fact even sunk
it to the point of suggesting to Lord Hubert Dacey, whom she ran across on the Casino steps,
that he might really get the Duchess to dine with the Brys, if SHE undertook to have them asked
on the Sabrina. Lord Hubert had promised his help, with the readiness on which she could always
count: it was his only way of ever reminding her that he had once been ready to do so much
more for her. Her path, in short, seemed to smooth itself before her as she advanced; yet the
faint stir of uneasiness persisted. Had it been produced, she wondered, by her chance meeting
with Selden?  She thought not--time and change seemed so completely to have relegated him to
his proper distance. The sudden and exquisite reaction from her anxieties had had the effect
of throwing the recent past so far back that even Selden, as part of it, retained a certain
air of unreality. And he had made it so clear that they were not to meet again; that he had
merely dropped down to Nice for a day or two, and had almost his foot on the next steamer.
No--that part of the past had merely surged up for a moment on the fleeing surface of events;
and now that it was submerged again, the uncertainty, the apprehension persisted.

They grew to sudden acuteness as she caught sight of George Dorset descending the steps of
the Hotel de Paris and making for her across the square. She had meant to drive down to the
quay and regain the yacht; but she now had the immediate impression that something more was
to happen first.

"Which way are you going? Shall we walk a bit?" he began, putting the second question before
the first was answered, and not waiting for a reply to either before he directed her silently
toward the comparative seclusion of the lower gardens.

She detected in him at once all the signs of extreme nervous tension. The skin was puffed out
under his sunken eyes, and its sallowness had paled to a leaden white against which his irregular
eyebrows and long reddish moustache were relieved with a saturnine effect. His appearance,
in short, presented an odd mixture of the bedraggled and the ferocious.

He walked beside her in silence, with quick precipitate steps, till they reached the embowered
slopes to the east of the Casino; then, pulling up abruptly, he said: "Have you seen Bertha?"

"No--when I left the yacht she was not yet up."

He received this with a laugh like the whirring sound in a disabled clock. "Not yet up? Had
she gone to bed? Do you know at what time she came on board? This morning at seven!" he exclaimed.

"At seven?" Lily started. "What happened--an accident to the train?"

He laughed again. "They missed the train--all the trains--they had to drive back."

"Well----?" She hesitated, feeling at once how little even this necessity accounted for the
fatal lapse of hours.

"Well, they couldn't get a carriage at once--at that time of night, you know--" the explanatory
note made it almost seem as though he were putting the case for his wife--"and when they finally
did, it was only a one-horse cab, and the horse was lame!"

"How tiresome! I see," she affirmed, with the more earnestness because she was so nervously
conscious that she did not; and after a pause she added: "I'm so sorry--but ought we to have
waited?"

"Waited for the one-horse cab? It would scarcely have carried the four of us, do you think?"

She took this in what seemed the only possible way, with a laugh intended to sink the question
itself in his humorous treatment of it.  "Well, it would have been difficult; we should have
had to walk by turns. But it would have been jolly to see the sunrise."

"Yes: the sunrise WAS jolly," he agreed.

"Was it? You saw it, then?"

"I saw it, yes; from the deck. I waited up for them."

"Naturally--I suppose you were worried. Why didn't you call on me to share your vigil?"

He stood still, dragging at his moustache with a lean weak hand.  "I don't think you would
have cared for its DENOUEMENT," he said with sudden grimness.

Again she was disconcerted by the abrupt change in his tone, and as in one flash she saw the
peril of the moment, and the need of keeping her sense of it out of her eyes.

"DENOUEMENT--isn't that too big a word for such a small incident?  The worst of it, after all,
is the fatigue which Bertha has probably slept off by this time."

She clung to the note bravely, though its futility was now plain to her in the glare of his
miserable eyes.

"Don't--don't----!" he broke out, with the hurt cry of a child; and while she tried to merge
her sympathy, and her resolve to ignore any cause for it, in one ambiguous murmur of deprecation,
he dropped down on the bench near which they had paused, and poured out the wretchedness of
his soul.

It was a dreadful hour--an hour from which she emerged shrinking and seared, as though her
lids had been scorched by its actual glare. It was not that she had never had premonitory glimpses
of such an outbreak; but rather because, here and there throughout the three months, the surface
of life had shown such ominous cracks and vapours that her fears had always been on the alert
for an upheaval. There had been moments when the situation had presented itself under a homelier
yet more vivid image--that of a shaky vehicle, dashed by unbroken steeds over a bumping road,
while she cowered within, aware that the harness wanted mending, and wondering what would give
way first.  Well--everything had given way now; and the wonder was that the crazy outfit had
held together so long. Her sense of being involved in the crash, instead of merely witnessing
it from the road, was intensified by the way in which Dorset, through his furies of denunciation
and wild reactions of self-contempt, made her feel the need he had of her, the place she had
taken in his life. But for her, what ear would have been open to his cries?  And what hand
but hers could drag him up again to a footing of sanity and self-respect? All through the stress
of the struggle with him, she had been conscious of something faintly maternal in her efforts
to guide and uplift him. But for the present, if he clung to her, it was not in order to be
dragged up, but to feel some one floundering in the depths with him: he wanted her to suffer
with him, not to help him to suffer less.

Happily for both, there was little physical strength to sustain his frenzy. It left him, collapsed
and breathing heavily, to an apathy so deep and prolonged that Lily almost feared the passers-by
would think it the result of a seizure, and stop to offer their aid. But Monte Carlo is, of
all places, the one where the human bond is least close, and odd sights are the least arresting.
If a glance or two lingered on the couple, no intrusive sympathy disturbed them; and it was
Lily herself who broke the silence by rising from her seat. With the clearing of her vision
the sweep of peril had extended, and she saw that the post of danger was no longer at Dorset's
side.

"If you won't go back, I must--don't make me leave you!" she urged.

But he remained mutely resistant, and she added: "What are you going to do? You really can't
sit here all night."

"I can go to an hotel. I can telegraph my lawyers." He sat up, roused by a new thought. "By
Jove, Selden's at Nice--I'll send for Selden!"

Lily, at this, reseated herself with a cry of alarm. "No, no, NO!" she protested.

He swung round on her distrustfully. "Why not Selden? He's a lawyer isn't he? One will do as
well as another in a case like this."

"As badly as another, you mean. I thought you relied on ME to help you."

"You do--by being so sweet and patient with me. If it hadn't been for you I'd have ended the
thing long ago. But now it's got to end." He rose suddenly, straightening himself with an effort.
"You can't want to see me ridiculous."

She looked at him kindly. "That's just it." Then, after a moment's pondering, almost to her
own surprise she broke out with a flash of inspiration: "Well, go over and see Mr. Selden.
You'll have time to do it before dinner."

"Oh, DINNER----" he mocked her; but she left him with the smiling rejoinder: "Dinner on board,
remember; we'll put it off till nine if you like."

It was past four already; and when a cab had dropped her at the quay, and she stood waiting
for the gig to put off for her, she began to wonder what had been happening on the yacht. Of
Silverton's whereabouts there had been no mention. Had he returned to the Sabrina? Or could
Bertha--the dread alternative sprang on her suddenly--could Bertha, left to herself, have gone
ashore to rejoin him? Lily's heart stood still at the thought. All her concern had hitherto
been for young Silverton, not only because, in such affairs, the woman's instinct is to side
with the man, but because his case made a peculiar appeal to her sympathies. He was so desperately
in earnest, poor youth, and his earnestness was of so different a quality from Bertha's, though
hers too was desperate enough. The difference was that Bertha was in earnest only about herself,
while he was in earnest about her.  But now, at the actual crisis, this difference seemed to
throw the weight of destitution on Bertha's side, since at least he had her to suffer for,
and she had only herself. At any rate, viewed less ideally, all the disadvantages of such a
situation were for the woman; and it was to Bertha that Lily's sympathies now went out. She
was not fond of Bertha Dorset, but neither was she without a sense of obligation, the heavier
for having so little personal liking to sustain it. Bertha had been kind to her, they had lived
together, during the last months, on terms of easy friendship, and the sense of friction of
which Lily had recently become aware seemed to make it the more urgent that she should work
undividedly in her friend's interest.

It was in Bertha's interest, certainly, that she had despatched Dorset to consult with Lawrence
Selden. Once the grotesqueness of the situation accepted, she had seen at a glance that it
was the safest in which Dorset could find himself. Who but Selden could thus miraculously combine
the skill to save Bertha with the obligation of doing so? The consciousness that much skill
would be required made Lily rest thankfully in the greatness of the obligation. Since he would
HAVE to pull Bertha through she could trust him to find a way; and she put the fulness of her
trust in the telegram she managed to send him on her way to the quay.

Thus far, then, Lily felt that she had done well; and the conviction strengthened her for the
task that remained. She and Bertha had never been on confidential terms, but at such a crisis
the barriers of reserve must surely fall: Dorset's wild allusions to the scene of the morning
made Lily feel that they were down already, and that any attempt to rebuild them would be beyond
Bertha's strength. She pictured the poor creature shivering behind her fallen defences and
awaiting with suspense the moment when she could take refuge in the first shelter that offered.
If only that shelter had not already offered itself elsewhere! As the gig traversed the short
distance between the quay and the yacht, Lily grew more than ever alarmed at the possible consequences
of her long absence. What if the wretched Bertha, finding in all the long hours no soul to
turn to--but by this time Lily's eager foot was on the side-ladder, and her first step on the
Sabrina showed the worst of her apprehensions to be unfounded; for there, in the luxurious
shade of the after-deck, the wretched Bertha, in full command of her usual attenuated elegance,
sat dispensing tea to the Duchess of Beltshire and Lord Hubert.

The sight filled Lily with such surprise that she felt that Bertha, at least, must read its
meaning in her look, and she was proportionately disconcerted by the blankness of the look
returned. But in an instant she saw that Mrs. Dorset had, of necessity, to look blank before
the others, and that, to mitigate the effect of her own surprise, she must at once produce
some simple reason for it. The long habit of rapid transitions made it easy for her to exclaim
to the Duchess: "Why, I thought you'd gone back to the Princess!" and this sufficed for the
lady she addressed, if it was hardly enough for Lord Hubert.

At least it opened the way to a lively explanation of how the Duchess was, in fact, going back
the next moment, but had first rushed out to the yacht for a word with Mrs. Dorset on the subject
of tomorrow's dinner--the dinner with the Brys, to which Lord Hubert had finally insisted on
dragging them.

"To save my neck, you know!" he explained, with a glance that appealed to Lily for some recognition
of his promptness; and the Duchess added, with her noble candour: "Mr. Bry has promised him
a tip, and he says if we go he'll pass it onto us."

This led to some final pleasantries, in which, as it seemed to Lily, Mrs. Dorset bore her part
with astounding bravery, and at the close of which Lord Hubert, from half way down the side-ladder,
called back, with an air of numbering heads: "And of course we may count on Dorset too?"

"Oh, count on him," his wife assented gaily. She was keeping up well to the last--but as she
turned back from waving her adieux over the side, Lily said to herself that the mask must drop
and the soul of fear look out.

Mrs. Dorset turned back slowly; perhaps she wanted time to steady her muscles; at any rate,
they were still under perfect control when, dropping once more into her seat behind the tea-table,
she remarked to Miss Bart with a faint touch of irony: "I suppose I ought to say good morning."

If it was a cue, Lily was ready to take it, though with only the vaguest sense of what was
expected of her in return. There was something unnerving in the contemplation of Mrs. Dorset's
composure, and she had to force the light tone in which she answered: "I tried to see you this
morning, but you were not yet up."

"No--I got to bed late. After we missed you at the station I thought we ought to wait for you
till the last train." She spoke very gently, but with just the least tinge of reproach.

"You missed us? You waited for us at the station?" Now indeed Lily was too far adrift in bewilderment
to measure the other's words or keep watch on her own. "But I thought you didn't get to the
station till after the last train had left!"

Mrs. Dorset, examining her between lowered lids, met this with the immediate query: "Who told
you that?"

"George--I saw him just now in the gardens."

"Ah, is that George's version? Poor George--he was in no state to remember what I told him.
He had one of his worst attacks this morning, and I packed him off to see the doctor. Do you
know if he found him?"

Lily, still lost in conjecture, made no reply, and Mrs. Dorset settled herself indolently in
her seat. "He'll wait to see him; he was horribly frightened about himself. It's very bad for
him to be worried, and whenever anything upsetting happens, it always brings on an attack."

This time Lily felt sure that a cue was being pressed on her; but it was put forth with such
startling suddenness, and with so incredible an air of ignoring what it led up to, that she
could only falter out doubtfully: "Anything upsetting?"

"Yes--such as having you so conspicuously on his hands in the small hours. You know, my dear,
you're rather a big responsibility in such a scandalous place after midnight."

At that--at the complete unexpectedness and the inconceivable audacity of it--Lily could not
restrain the tribute of an astonished laugh.

"Well, really--considering it was you who burdened him with the responsibility!"

Mrs. Dorset took this with an exquisite mildness. "By not having the superhuman cleverness
to discover you in that frightful rush for the train? Or the imagination to believe that you'd
take it without us--you and he all alone--instead of waiting quietly in the station till we
DID manage to meet you?"

Lily's colour rose: it was growing clear to her that Bertha was pursuing an object, following
a line she had marked out for herself.  Only, with such a doom impending, why waste time in
these childish efforts to avert it? The puerility of the attempt disarmed Lily's indignation:
did it not prove how horribly the poor creature was frightened?

"No; by our simply all keeping together at Nice," she returned.

"Keeping together? When it was you who seized the first opportunity to rush off with the Duchess
and her friends? My dear Lily, you are not a child to be led by the hand!"

"No--nor to be lectured, Bertha, really; if that's what you are doing to me now."

Mrs. Dorset smiled on her reproachfully. "Lecture you--I? Heaven forbid! I was merely trying
to give you a friendly hint. But it's usually the other way round, isn't it? I'm expected to
take hints, not to give them: I've positively lived on them all these last months."

"Hints--from me to you?" Lily repeated.

"Oh, negative ones merely--what not to be and to do and to see.  And I think I've taken them
to admiration. Only, my dear, if you'll let me say so, I didn't understand that one of my negative
duties was NOT to warn you when you carried your imprudence too far."

A chill of fear passed over Miss Bart: a sense of remembered treachery that was like the gleam
of a knife in the dusk. But compassion, in a moment, got the better of her instinctive recoil.
What was this outpouring of senseless bitterness but the tracked creature's attempt to cloud
the medium through which it was fleeing? It was on Lily's lips to exclaim: "You poor soul,
don't double and turn--come straight back to me, and we'll find a way out!" But the words died
under the impenetrable insolence of Bertha's smile. Lily sat silent, taking the brunt of it
quietly, letting it spend itself on her to the last drop of its accumulated falseness; then,
without a word, she rose and went down to her cabin.

Chapter 3

Miss Bart's telegram caught Lawrence Selden at the door of his hotel; and having read it, he
turned back to wait for Dorset. The message necessarily left large gaps for conjecture; but
all that he had recently heard and seen made these but too easy to fill in. On the whole he
was surprised; for though he had perceived that the situation contained all the elements of
an explosion, he had often enough, in the range of his personal experience, seen just such
combinations subside into harmlessness. Still, Dorset's spasmodic temper, and his wife's reckless
disregard of appearances, gave the situation a peculiar insecurity; and it was less from the
sense of any special relation to the case than from a purely professional zeal, that Selden
resolved to guide the pair to safety. Whether, in the present instance, safety for either lay
in repairing so damaged a tie, it was no business of his to consider: he had only, on general
principles, to think of averting a scandal, and his desire to avert it was increased by his
fear of its involving Miss Bart. There was nothing specific in this apprehension; he merely
wished to spare her the embarrassment of being ever so remotely connected with the public washing
of the Dorset linen.

How exhaustive and unpleasant such a process would be, he saw even more vividly after his two
hours' talk with poor Dorset. If anything came out at all, it would be such a vast unpacking
of accumulated moral rags as left him, after his visitor had gone, with the feeling that he
must fling open the windows and have his room swept out. But nothing should come out; and happily
for his side of the case, the dirty rags, however pieced together, could not, without considerable
difficulty, be turned into a homogeneous grievance. The torn edges did not always fit--there
were missing bits, there were disparities of size and colour, all of which it was naturally
Selden's business to make the most of in putting them under his client's eye. But to a man
in Dorset's mood the completest demonstration could not carry conviction, and Selden saw that
for the moment all he could do was to soothe and temporize, to offer sympathy and to counsel
prudence. He let Dorset depart charged to the brim with the sense that, till their next meeting,
he must maintain a strictly noncommittal attitude; that, in short, his share in the game consisted
for the present in looking on. Selden knew, however, that he could not long keep such violences
in equilibrium; and he promised to meet Dorset, the next morning, at an hotel in Monte Carlo.
Meanwhile he counted not a little on the reaction of weakness and self-distrust that, in such
natures, follows on every unwonted expenditure of moral force; and his telegraphic reply to
Miss Bart consisted simply in the injunction: "Assume that everything is as usual."

On this assumption, in fact, the early part of the following day was lived through. Dorset,
as if in obedience to Lily's imperative bidding, had actually returned in time for a late dinner
on the yacht. The repast had been the most difficult moment of the day. Dorset was sunk in
one of the abysmal silences which so commonly followed on what his wife called his "attacks"
that it was easy, before the servants, to refer it to this cause; but Bertha herself seemed,
perversely enough, little disposed to make use of this obvious means of protection. She simply
left the brunt of the situation on her husband's hands, as if too absorbed in a grievance of
her own to suspect that she might be the object of one herself. To Lily this attitude was the
most ominous, because the most perplexing, element in the situation. As she tried to fan the
weak flicker of talk, to build up, again and again, the crumbling structure of "appearances,"
her own attention was perpetually distracted by the question: "What on earth can she be driving
at?" There was something positively exasperating in Bertha's attitude of isolated defiance.
If only she would have given her friend a hint they might still have worked together successfully;
but how could Lily be of use, while she was thus obstinately shut out from participation? To
be of use was what she honestly wanted; and not for her own sake but for the Dorsets'. She
had not thought of her own situation at all: she was simply engrossed in trying to put a little
order in theirs. But the close of the short dreary evening left her with a sense of effort
hopelessly wasted. She had not tried to see Dorset alone: she had positively shrunk from a
renewal of his confidences. It was Bertha whose confidence she sought, and who should as eagerly
have invited her own; and Bertha, as if in the infatuation of self-destruction, was actually
pushing away her rescuing hand.

Lily, going to bed early, had left the couple to themselves; and it seemed part of the general
mystery in which she moved that more than an hour should elapse before she heard Bertha walk
down the silent passage and regain her room. The morrow, rising on an apparent continuance
of the same conditions, revealed nothing of what had occurred between the confronted pair.
One fact alone outwardly proclaimed the change they were all conspiring to ignore; and that
was the non-appearance of Ned Silverton. No one referred to it, and this tacit avoidance of
the subject kept it in the immediate foreground of consciousness. But there was another change,
perceptible only to Lily; and that was that Dorset now avoided her almost as pointedly as his
wife. Perhaps he was repenting his rash outpourings of the previous day; perhaps only trying,
in his clumsy way, to conform to Selden's counsel to behave "as usual." Such instructions no
more make for easiness of attitude than the photographer's behest to "look natural"; and in
a creature as unconscious as poor Dorset of the appearance he habitually presented, the struggle
to maintain a pose was sure to result in queer contortions.

It resulted, at any rate, in throwing Lily strangely on her own resources. She had learned,
on leaving her room, that Mrs. Dorset was still invisible, and that Dorset had left the yacht
early; and feeling too restless to remain alone, she too had herself ferried ashore. Straying
toward the Casino, she attached herself to a group of acquaintances from Nice, with whom she
lunched, and in whose company she was returning to the rooms when she encountered Selden crossing
the square. She could not, at the moment, separate herself definitely from her party, who had
hospitably assumed that she would remain with them till they took their departure; but she
found time for a momentary pause of enquiry, to which he promptly returned: "I've seen him
again--he's just left me."

She waited before him anxiously. "Well? what has happened? What WILL happen?"

"Nothing as yet--and nothing in the future, I think."

"It's over, then? It's settled? You're sure?"

He smiled. "Give me time. I'm not sure--but I'm a good deal surer." And with that she had to
content herself, and hasten on to the expectant group on the steps.

Selden had in fact given her the utmost measure of his sureness, had even stretched it a shade
to meet the anxiety in her eyes.  And now, as he turned away, strolling down the hill toward
the station, that anxiety remained with him as the visible justification of his own. It was
not, indeed, anything specific that he feared: there had been a literal truth in his declaration
that he did not think anything would happen. What troubled him was that, though Dorset's attitude
had perceptibly changed, the change was not clearly to be accounted for. It had certainly not
been produced by Selden's arguments, or by the action of his own soberer reason. Five minutes'
talk sufficed to show that some alien influence had been at work, and that it had not so much
subdued his resentment as weakened his will, so that he moved under it in a state of apathy,
like a dangerous lunatic who has been drugged.  Temporarily, no doubt, however exerted, it
worked for the general safety: the question was how long it would last, and by what kind of
reaction it was likely to be followed. On these points Selden could gain no light; for he saw
that one effect of the transformation had been to shut him off from free communion with Dorset.
The latter, indeed, was still moved by the irresistible desire to discuss his wrong; but, though
he revolved about it with the same forlorn tenacity, Selden was aware that something always
restrained him from full expression. His state was one to produce first weariness and then
impatience in his hearer; and when their talk was over, Selden began to feel that he had done
his utmost, and might justifiably wash his hands of the sequel.

It was in this mind that he had been making his way back to the station when Miss Bart crossed
his path; but though, after his brief word with her, he kept mechanically on his course, he
was conscious of a gradual change in his purpose. The change had been produced by the look
in her eyes; and in his eagerness to define the nature of that look, he dropped into a seat
in the gardens, and sat brooding upon the question.  It was natural enough, in all conscience,
that she should appear anxious: a young woman placed, in the close intimacy of a yachting-cruise,
between a couple on the verge of disaster, could hardly, aside from her concern for her friends,
be insensible to the awkwardness of her own position. The worst of it was that, in interpreting
Miss Bart's state of mind, so many alternative readings were possible; and one of these, in
Selden's troubled mind, took the ugly form suggested by Mrs. Fisher. If the girl was afraid,
was she afraid for herself or for her friends? And to what degree was her dread of a catastrophe
intensified by the sense of being fatally involved in it? The burden of offence lying manifestly
with Mrs. Dorset, this conjecture seemed on the face of it gratuitously unkind; but Selden
knew that in the most one-sided matrimonial quarrel there are generally counter-charges to
be brought, and that they are brought with the greater audacity where the original grievance
is so emphatic. Mrs. Fisher had not hesitated to suggest the likelihood of Dorset's marrying
Miss Bart if "anything happened"; and though Mrs. Fisher's conclusions were notoriously rash,
she was shrewd enough in reading the signs from which they were drawn. Dorset had apparently
shown marked interest in the girl, and this interest might be used to cruel advantage in his
wife's struggle for rehabilitation. Selden knew that Bertha would fight to the last round of
powder: the rashness of her conduct was illogically combined with a cold determination to escape
its consequences. She could be as unscrupulous in fighting for herself as she was reckless
in courting danger, and whatever came to her hand at such moments was likely to be used as
a defensive missile. He did not, as yet, see clearly just what course she was likely to take,
but his perplexity increased his apprehension, and with it the sense that, before leaving,
he must speak again with Miss Bart. Whatever her share in the situation--and he had always
honestly tried to resist judging her by her surroundings--however free she might be from any
personal connection with it, she would be better out of the way of a possible crash; and since
she had appealed to him for help, it was clearly his business to tell her so.

This decision at last brought him to his feet, and carried him back to the gambling rooms,
within whose doors he had seen her disappearing; but a prolonged exploration of the crowd failed
to put him on her traces. He saw instead, to his surprise, Ned Silverton loitering somewhat
ostentatiously about the tables; and the discovery that this actor in the drama was not only
hovering in the wings, but actually inviting the exposure of the footlights, though it might
have seemed to imply that all peril was over, served rather to deepen Selden's sense of foreboding.
Charged with this impression he returned to the square, hoping to see Miss Bart move across
it, as every one in Monte Carlo seemed inevitably to do at least a dozen times a day; but here
again he waited vainly for a glimpse of her, and the conclusion was slowly forced on him that
she had gone back to the Sabrina. It would be difficult to follow her there, and still more
difficult, should he do so, to contrive the opportunity for a private word; and he had almost
decided on the unsatisfactory alternative of writing, when the ceaseless diorama of the square
suddenly unrolled before him the figures of Lord Hubert and Mrs. Bry.

Hailing them at once with his question, he learned from Lord Hubert that Miss Bart had just
returned to the Sabrina in Dorset's company; an announcement so evidently disconcerting to
him that Mrs. Bry, after a glance from her companion, which seemed to act like the pressure
on a spring, brought forth the prompt proposal that he should come and meet his friends at
dinner that evening--"At Becassin's--a little dinner to the Duchess," she flashed out before
Lord Hubert had time to remove the pressure.

Selden's sense of the privilege of being included in such company brought him early in the
evening to the door of the restaurant, where he paused to scan the ranks of diners approaching
down the brightly lit terrace. There, while the Brys hovered within over the last agitating
alternatives of the MENU, he kept watch for the guests from the Sabrina, who at length rose
on the horizon in company with the Duchess, Lord and Lady Skiddaw and the Stepneys.  From this
group it was easy for him to detach Miss Bart on the pretext of a moment's glance into one
of the brilliant shops along the terrace, and to say to her, while they lingered together in
the white dazzle of a jeweller's window: "I stopped over to see you--to beg of you to leave
the yacht."

The eyes she turned on him showed a quick gleam of her former fear. "To leave--? What do you
mean? What has happened?"

"Nothing. But if anything should, why be in the way of it?"

The glare from the jeweller's window, deepening the pallour of her face, gave to its delicate
lines the sharpness of a tragic mask.  "Nothing will, I am sure; but while there's even a doubt
left, how can you think I would leave Bertha?"

The words rang out on a note of contempt--was it possibly of contempt for himself? Well, he
was willing to risk its renewal to the extent of insisting, with an undeniable throb of added
interest: "You have yourself to think of, you know--" to which, with a strange fall of sadness
in her voice, she answered, meeting his eyes: "If you knew how little difference that makes!"

"Oh, well, nothing WILL happen," he said, more for his own reassurance than for hers; and "Nothing,
nothing, of course!" she valiantly assented, as they turned to overtake their companions.

In the thronged restaurant, taking their places about Mrs. Bry's illuminated board, their confidence
seemed to gain support from the familiarity of their surroundings. Here were Dorset and his
wife once more presenting their customary faces to the world, she engrossed in establishing
her relation with an intensely new gown, he shrinking with dyspeptic dread from the multiplied
solicitations of the MENU. The mere fact that they thus showed themselves together, with the
utmost openness the place afforded, seemed to declare beyond a doubt that their differences
were composed. How this end had been attained was still matter for wonder, but it was clear
that for the moment Miss Bart rested confidently in the result; and Selden tried to achieve
the same view by telling himself that her opportunities for observation had been ampler than
his own.

Meanwhile, as the dinner advanced through a labyrinth of courses, in which it became clear
that Mrs. Bry had occasionally broken away from Lord Hubert's restraining hand, Selden's general
watchfulness began to lose itself in a particular study of Miss Bart. It was one of the days
when she was so handsome that to be handsome was enough, and all the rest--her grace, her quickness,
her social felicities--seemed the overflow of a bounteous nature. But what especially struck
him was the way in which she detached herself, by a hundred undefinable shades, from the persons
who most abounded in her own style. It was in just such company, the fine flower and complete
expression of the state she aspired to, that the differences came out with special poignancy,
her grace cheapening the other women's smartness as her finely-discriminated silences made
their chatter dull. The strain of the last hours had restored to her face the deeper eloquence
which Selden had lately missed in it, and the bravery of her words to him still fluttered in
her voice and eyes. Yes, she was matchless--it was the one word for her; and he could give
his admiration the freer play because so little personal feeling remained in it. His real detachment
from her had taken place, not at the lurid moment of disenchantment, but now, in the sober
after-light of discrimination, where he saw her definitely divided from him by the crudeness
of a choice which seemed to deny the very differences he felt in her. It was before him again
in its completeness--the choice in which she was content to rest: in the stupid costliness
of the food and the showy dulness of the talk, in the freedom of speech which never arrived
at wit and the freedom of act which never made for romance. The strident setting of the restaurant,
in which their table seemed set apart in a special glare of publicity, and the presence at
it of little Dabham of the "Riviera Notes," emphasized the ideals of a world where conspicuousness
passed for distinction, and the society column had become the roll of fame.

It was as the immortalizer of such occasions that little Dabham, wedged in modest watchfulness
between two brilliant neighbours, suddenly became the centre of Selden's scrutiny. How much
did he know of what was going on, and how much, for his purpose, was still worth finding out?
His little eyes were like tentacles thrown out to catch the floating intimations with which,
to Selden, the air at moments seemed thick; then again it cleared to its normal emptiness,
and he could see nothing in it for the journalist but leisure to note the elegance of the ladies'
gowns. Mrs. Dorset's, in particular, challenged all the wealth of Mr. Dabham's vocabulary:
it had surprises and subtleties worthy of what he would have called "the literary style." At
first, as Selden had noticed, it had been almost too preoccupying to its wearer; but now she
was in full command of it, and was even producing her effects with unwonted freedom. Was she
not, indeed, too free, too fluent, for perfect naturalness? And was not Dorset, to whom his
glance had passed by a natural transition, too jerkily wavering between the same extremes?
Dorset indeed was always jerky; but it seemed to Selden that tonight each vibration swung him
farther from his centre.

The dinner, meanwhile, was moving to its triumphant close, to the evident satisfaction of Mrs.
Bry, who, throned in apoplectic majesty between Lord Skiddaw and Lord Hubert, seemed in spirit
to be calling on Mrs. Fisher to witness her achievement. Short of Mrs. Fisher her audience
might have been called complete; for the restaurant was crowded with persons mainly gathered
there for the purpose of spectatorship, and accurately posted as to the names and faces of
the celebrities they had come to see. Mrs. Bry, conscious that all her feminine guests came
under that heading, and that each one looked her part to admiration, shone on Lily with all
the pent-up gratitude that Mrs. Fisher had failed to deserve. Selden, catching the glance,
wondered what part Miss Bart had played in organizing the entertainment. She did, at least,
a great deal to adorn it; and as he watched the bright security with which she bore herself,
he smiled to think that he should have fancied her in need of help. Never had she appeared
more serenely mistress of the situation than when, at the moment of dispersal, detaching herself
a little from the group about the table, she turned with a smile and a graceful slant of the
shoulders to receive her cloak from Dorset.

The dinner had been protracted over Mr. Bry's exceptional cigars and a bewildering array of
liqueurs, and many of the other tables were empty; but a sufficient number of diners still
lingered to give relief to the leave-taking of Mrs. Bry's distinguished guests. This ceremony
was drawn out and complicated by the fact that it involved, on the part of the Duchess and
Lady Skiddaw, definite farewells, and pledges of speedy reunion in Paris, where they were to
pause and replenish their wardrobes on the way to England. The quality of Mrs. Bry's hospitality,
and of the tips her husband had presumably imparted, lent to the manner of the English ladies
a general effusiveness which shed the rosiest light over their hostess's future. In its glow
Mrs. Dorset and the Stepneys were also visibly included, and the whole scene had touches of
intimacy worth their weight in gold to the watchful pen of Mr. Dabham.

A glance at her watch caused the Duchess to exclaim to her sister that they had just time to
dash for their train, and the flurry of this departure over, the Stepneys, who had their motor
at the door, offered to convey the Dorsets and Miss Bart to the quay.  The offer was accepted,
and Mrs. Dorset moved away with her husband in attendance.  Miss Bart had lingered for a last
word with Lord Hubert, and Stepney, on whom Mr. Bry was pressing a final, and still more expensive,
cigar, called out: "Come on, Lily, if you're going back to the yacht."

Lily turned to obey; but as she did so, Mrs. Dorset, who had paused on her way out, moved a
few steps back toward the table.

"Miss Bart is not going back to the yacht," she said in a voice of singular distinctness.

A startled look ran from eye to eye; Mrs. Bry crimsoned to the verge of congestion, Mrs. Stepney
slipped nervously behind her husband, and Selden, in the general turmoil of his sensations,
was mainly conscious of a longing to grip Dabham by the collar and fling him out into the street.

Dorset, meanwhile, had stepped back to his wife's side. His face was white, and he looked about
him with cowed angry eyes.  "Bertha!--Miss Bart . . . this is some misunderstanding . . . 
some mistake . . ."

"Miss Bart remains here," his wife rejoined incisively. "And, I think, George, we had better
not detain Mrs. Stepney any longer."

Miss Bart, during this brief exchange of words, remained in admirable erectness, slightly isolated
from the embarrassed group about her. She had paled a little under the shock of the insult,
but the discomposure of the surrounding faces was not reflected in her own. The faint disdain
of her smile seemed to lift her high above her antagonist's reach, and it was not till she
had given Mrs. Dorset the full measure of the distance between them that she turned and extended
her hand to her hostess.

"I am joining the Duchess tomorrow," she explained, "and it seemed easier for me to remain
on shore for the night."

She held firmly to Mrs. Bry's wavering eye while she gave this explanation, but when it was
over Selden saw her send a tentative glance from one to another of the women's faces. She read
their incredulity in their averted looks, and in the mute wretchedness of the men behind them,
and for a miserable half-second he thought she quivered on the brink of failure. Then, turning
to him with an easy gesture, and the pale bravery of her recovered smile--"Dear Mr. Selden,"
she said, "you promised to see me to my cab."

Outside, the sky was gusty and overcast, and as Lily and Selden moved toward the deserted gardens
below the restaurant, spurts of warm rain blew fitfully against their faces. The fiction of
the cab had been tacitly abandoned; they walked on in silence, her hand on his arm, till the
deeper shade of the gardens received them, and pausing beside a bench, he said: "Sit down a
moment."

She dropped to the seat without answering, but the electric lamp at the bend of the path shed
a gleam on the struggling misery of her face. Selden sat down beside her, waiting for her to
speak, fearful lest any word he chose should touch too roughly on her wound, and kept also
from free utterance by the wretched doubt which had slowly renewed itself within him. What
had brought her to this pass? What weakness had placed her so abominably at her enemy's mercy?
And why should Bertha Dorset have turned into an enemy at the very moment when she so obviously
needed the support of her sex? Even while his nerves raged at the subjection of husbands to
their wives, and at the cruelty of women to their kind, reason obstinately harped on the proverbial
relation between smoke and fire. The memory of Mrs. Fisher's hints, and the corroboration of
his own impressions, while they deepened his pity also increased his constraint, since, whichever
way he sought a free outlet for sympathy, it was blocked by the fear of committing a blunder.

Suddenly it struck him that his silence must seem almost as accusatory as that of the men he
had despised for turning from her; but before he could find the fitting word she had cut him
short with a question.

"Do you know of a quiet hotel? I can send for my maid in the morning."

"An hotel--HERE--that you can go to alone? It's not possible."

She met this with a pale gleam of her old playfulness. "What IS, then? It's too wet to sleep
in the gardens."

"But there must be some one----"

"Some one to whom I can go? Of course--any number--but at THIS hour?  You see my change of
plan was rather sudden----"

"Good God--if you'd listened to me!" he cried, venting his helplessness in a burst of anger.

She still held him off with the gentle mockery of her smile. "But haven't I?" she rejoined.
"You advised me to leave the yacht, and I'm leaving it."

He saw then, with a pang of self-reproach, that she meant neither to explain nor to defend
herself; that by his miserable silence he had forfeited all chance of helping her, and that
the decisive hour was past.

She had risen, and stood before him in a kind of clouded majesty, like some deposed princess
moving tranquilly to exile.

"Lily!" he exclaimed, with a note of despairing appeal; but--"Oh, not now," she gently admonished
him; and then, in all the sweetness of her recovered composure: "Since I must find shelter
somewhere, and since you're so kindly here to help me----"

He gathered himself up at the challenge. "You will do as I tell you? There's but one thing,
then; you must go straight to your cousins, the Stepneys."

"Oh--" broke from her with a movement of instinctive resistance; but he insisted: "Come--it's
late, and you must appear to have gone there directly."

He had drawn her hand into his arm, but she held him back with a last gesture of protest. "I
can't--I can't--not that--you don't know Gwen: you mustn't ask me!"

"I MUST ask you--you must obey me," he persisted, though infected at heart by her own fear.

Her voice sank to a whisper: "And if she refuses?"--but, "Oh, trust me--trust me!" he could
only insist in return; and yielding to his touch, she let him lead her back in silence to the
edge of the square.

In the cab they continued to remain silent through the brief drive which carried them to the
illuminated portals of the Stepneys' hotel.  Here he left her outside, in the darkness of the
raised hood, while his name was sent up to Stepney, and he paced the showy hall, awaiting the
latter's descent. Ten minutes later the two men passed out together between the gold-laced
custodians of the threshold; but in the vestibule Stepney drew up with a last flare of reluctance.

"It's understood, then?" he stipulated nervously, with his hand on Selden's arm. "She leaves
tomorrow by the early train--and my wife's asleep, and can't be disturbed."

Chapter 4

The blinds of Mrs. Peniston's drawing-room were drawn down against the oppressive June sun,
and in the sultry twilight the faces of her assembled relatives took on a fitting shadow of
bereavement. They were all there: Van Alstynes, Stepneys and Melsons--even a stray Peniston
or two, indicating, by a greater latitude in dress and manner, the fact of remoter relationship
and more settled hopes. The Peniston side was, in fact, secure in the knowledge that the bulk
of Mr. Peniston's property "went back"; while the direct connection hung suspended on the disposal
of his widow's private fortune and on the uncertainty of its extent. Jack Stepney, in his new
character as the richest nephew, tacitly took the lead, emphasizing his importance by the deeper
gloss of his mourning and the subdued authority of his manner; while his wife's bored attitude
and frivolous gown proclaimed the heiress's disregard of the insignificant interests at stake.
Old Ned Van Alstyne, seated next to her in a coat that made affliction dapper, twirled his
white moustache to conceal the eager twitch of his lips; and Grace Stepney, red-nosed and smelling
of crape, whispered emotionally to Mrs. Herbert Melson: "I couldn't BEAR to see the Niagara
anywhere else!"

A rustle of weeds and quick turning of heads hailed the opening of the door, and Lily Bart
appeared, tall and noble in her black dress, with Gerty Farish at her side. The women's faces,
as she paused interrogatively on the threshold, were a study in hesitation. One or two made
faint motions of recognition, which might have been subdued either by the solemnity of the
scene, or by the doubt as to how far the others meant to go; Mrs. Jack Stepney gave a careless
nod, and Grace Stepney, with a sepulchral gesture, indicated a seat at her side. But Lily,
ignoring the invitation, as well as Jack Stepney's official attempt to direct her, moved across
the room with her smooth free gait, and seated herself in a chair which seemed to have been
purposely placed apart from the others.

It was the first time that she had faced her family since her return from Europe, two weeks
earlier; but if she perceived any uncertainty in their welcome, it served only to add a tinge
of irony to the usual composure of her bearing. The shock of dismay with which, on the dock,
she had heard from Gerty Farish of Mrs. Peniston's sudden death, had been mitigated, almost
at once, by the irrepressible thought that now, at last, she would be able to pay her debts.
She had looked forward with considerable uneasiness to her first encounter with her aunt. 
Mrs. Peniston had vehemently opposed her niece's departure with the Dorsets, and had marked
her continued disapproval by not writing during Lily's absence. The certainty that she had
heard of the rupture with the Dorsets made the prospect of the meeting more formidable; and
how should Lily have repressed a quick sense of relief at the thought that, instead of undergoing
the anticipated ordeal, she had only to enter gracefully on a long-assured inheritance? It
had been, in the consecrated phrase, "always understood" that Mrs. Peniston was to provide
handsomely for her niece; and in the latter's mind the understanding had long since crystallized
into fact.

"She gets everything, of course--I don't see what we're here for," Mrs. Jack Stepney remarked
with careless loudness to Ned Van Alstyne; and the latter's deprecating murmur--"Julia was
always a just woman"--might have been interpreted as signifying either acquiescence or doubt.

"Well, it's only about four hundred thousand," Mrs. Stepney rejoined with a yawn; and Grace
Stepney, in the silence produced by the lawyer's preliminary cough, was heard to sob out: "They
won't find a towel missing--I went over them with her the very day----"

Lily, oppressed by the close atmosphere, and the stifling odour of fresh mourning, felt her
attention straying as Mrs. Peniston's lawyer, solemnly erect behind the Buhl table at the end
of the room, began to rattle through the preamble of the will.

"It's like being in church," she reflected, wondering vaguely where Gwen Stepney had got such
an awful hat. Then she noticed how stout Jack had grown--he would soon be almost as plethoric
as Herbert Melson, who sat a few feet off, breathing puffily as he leaned his black-gloved
hands on his stick.

"I wonder why rich people always grow fat--I suppose it's because there's nothing to worry
them. If I inherit, I shall have to be careful of my figure," she mused, while the lawyer droned
on through a labyrinth of legacies. The servants came first, then a few charitable institutions,
then several remoter Melsons and Stepneys, who stirred consciously as their names rang out,
and then subsided into a state of impassiveness befitting the solemnity of the occasion. Ned
Van Alstyne, Jack Stepney, and a cousin or two followed, each coupled with the mention of a
few thousands: Lily wondered that Grace Stepney was not among them.  Then she heard her own
name--"to my niece Lily Bart ten thousand dollars--" and after that the lawyer again lost himself
in a coil of unintelligible periods, from which the concluding phrase flashed out with startling
distinctness: "and the residue of my estate to my dear cousin and name-sake, Grace Julia Stepney."

There was a subdued gasp of surprise, a rapid turning of heads, and a surging of sable figures
toward the corner in which Miss Stepney wailed out her sense of unworthiness through the crumpled
ball of a black-edged handkerchief.

Lily stood apart from the general movement, feeling herself for the first time utterly alone.
No one looked at her, no one seemed aware of her presence; she was probing the very depths
of insignificance. And under her sense of the collective indifference came the acuter pang
of hopes deceived.  Disinherited--she had been disinherited--and for Grace Stepney!  She met
Gerty's lamentable eyes, fixed on her in a despairing effort at consolation, and the look brought
her to herself. There was something to be done before she left the house: to be done with all
the nobility she knew how to put into such gestures. She advanced to the group about Miss Stepney,
and holding out her hand said simply: "Dear Grace, I am so glad."

The other ladies had fallen back at her approach, and a space created itself about her. It
widened as she turned to go, and no one advanced to fill it up. She paused a moment, glancing
about her, calmly taking the measure of her situation. She heard some one ask a question about
the date of the will; she caught a fragment of the lawyer's answer--something about a sudden
summons, and an "earlier instrument." Then the tide of dispersal began to drift past her; Mrs.
Jack Stepney and Mrs. Herbert Melson stood on the doorstep awaiting their motor; a sympathizing
group escorted Grace Stepney to the cab it was felt to be fitting she should take, though she
lived but a street or two away; and Miss Bart and Gerty found themselves almost alone in the
purple drawing-room, which more than ever, in its stuffy dimness, resembled a well-kept family
vault, in which the last corpse had just been decently deposited.

In Gerty Farish's sitting-room, whither a hansom had carried the two friends, Lily dropped
into a chair with a faint sound of laughter: it struck her as a humorous coincidence that her
aunt's legacy should so nearly represent the amount of her debt to Trenor. The need of discharging
that debt had reasserted itself with increased urgency since her return to America, and she
spoke her first thought in saying to the anxiously hovering Gerty: "I wonder when the legacies
will be paid."

But Miss Farish could not pause over the legacies; she broke into a larger indignation. "Oh,
Lily, it's unjust; it's cruel--Grace Stepney must FEEL she has no right to all that money!"

"Any one who knew how to please Aunt Julia has a right to her money," Miss Bart rejoined philosophically.

"But she was devoted to you--she led every one to think--" Gerty checked herself in evident
embarrassment, and Miss Bart turned to her with a direct look. "Gerty, be honest: this will
was made only six weeks ago. She had heard of my break with the Dorsets?"

"Every one heard, of course, that there had been some disagreement--some misunderstanding----"

"Did she hear that Bertha turned me off the yacht?"

"Lily!"

"That was what happened, you know. She said I was trying to marry George Dorset. She did it
to make him think she was jealous.  Isn't that what she told Gwen Stepney?"

"I don't know--I don't listen to such horrors."

"I MUST listen to them--I must know where I stand." She paused, and again sounded a faint note
of derision. "Did you notice the women? They were afraid to snub me while they thought I was
going to get the money--afterward they scuttled off as if I had the plague." Gerty remained
silent, and she continued: "I stayed on to see what would happen. They took their cue from
Gwen Stepney and Lulu Melson--I saw them watching to see what Gwen would do.--Gerty, I must
know just what is being said of me."

"I tell you I don't listen----"

"One hears such things without listening." She rose and laid her resolute hands on Miss Farish's
shoulders. "Gerty, are people going to cut me?"

"Your FRIENDS, Lily--how can you think it?"

"Who are one's friends at such a time? Who, but you, you poor trustful darling? And heaven
knows what YOU suspect me of!" She kissed Gerty with a whimsical murmur. "You'd never let it
make any difference--but then you're fond of criminals, Gerty! How about the irreclaimable
ones, though? For I'm absolutely impenitent, you know."

She drew herself up to the full height of her slender majesty, towering like some dark angel
of defiance above the troubled Gerty, who could only falter out: "Lily, Lily--how can you laugh
about such things?"

"So as not to weep, perhaps. But no--I'm not of the tearful order. I discovered early that
crying makes my nose red, and the knowledge has helped me through several painful episodes."
She took a restless turn about the room, and then, reseating herself, lifted the bright mockery
of her eyes to Gerty's anxious countenance.

"I shouldn't have minded, you know, if I'd got the money--" and at Miss Farish's protesting
"Oh!" she repeated calmly: "Not a straw, my dear; for, in the first place, they wouldn't have
quite dared to ignore me; and if they had, it wouldn't have mattered, because I should have
been independent of them. But now--!" The irony faded from her eyes, and she bent a clouded
face upon her friend.

"How can you talk so, Lily? Of course the money ought to have been yours, but after all that
makes no difference. The important thing----" Gerty paused, and then continued firmly: "The
important thing is that you should clear yourself--should tell your friends the whole truth."

"The whole truth?" Miss Bart laughed. "What is truth? Where a woman is concerned, it's the
story that's easiest to believe. In this case it's a great deal easier to believe Bertha Dorset's
story than mine, because she has a big house and an opera box, and it's convenient to be on
good terms with her."

Miss Farish still fixed her with an anxious gaze. "But what IS your story, Lily? I don't believe
any one knows it yet."

"My story?--I don't believe I know it myself. You see I never thought of preparing a version
in advance as Bertha did--and if I had, I don't think I should take the trouble to use it now."

But Gerty continued with her quiet reasonableness: "I don't want a version prepared in advance--but
I want you to tell me exactly what happened from the beginning."

"From the beginning?" Miss Bart gently mimicked her. "Dear Gerty, how little imagination you
good people have! Why, the beginning was in my cradle, I suppose--in the way I was brought
up, and the things I was taught to care for. Or no--I won't blame anybody for my faults: I'll
say it was in my blood, that I got it from some wicked pleasure-loving ancestress, who reacted
against the homely virtues of New Amsterdam, and wanted to be back at the court of the Charleses!"
And as Miss Farish continued to press her with troubled eyes, she went on impatiently: "You
asked me just now for the truth--well, the truth about any girl is that once she's talked about
she's done for; and the more she explains her case the worse it looks.--My good Gerty, you
don't happen to have a cigarette about you?"

In her stuffy room at the hotel to which she had gone on landing, Lily Bart that evening reviewed
her situation. It was the last week in June, and none of her friends were in town. The few
relatives who had stayed on, or returned, for the reading of Mrs. Peniston's will, had taken
flight again that afternoon to Newport or Long Island; and not one of them had made any proffer
of hospitality to Lily. For the first time in her life she found herself utterly alone except
for Gerty Farish. Even at the actual moment of her break with the Dorsets she had not had so
keen a sense of its consequences, for the Duchess of Beltshire, hearing of the catastrophe
from Lord Hubert, had instantly offered her protection, and under her sheltering wing Lily
had made an almost triumphant progress to London. There she had been sorely tempted to linger
on in a society which asked of her only to amuse and charm it, without enquiring too curiously
how she had acquired her gift for doing so; but Selden, before they parted, had pressed on
her the urgent need of returning at once to her aunt, and Lord Hubert, when he presently reappeared
in London, abounded in the same counsel. Lily did not need to be told that the Duchess's championship
was not the best road to social rehabilitation, and as she was besides aware that her noble
defender might at any moment drop her in favour of a new PROTEGEE, she reluctantly decided
to return to America. But she had not been ten minutes on her native shore before she realized
that she had delayed too long to regain it. The Dorsets, the Stepneys, the Brys--all the actors
and witnesses in the miserable drama--had preceded her with their version of the case; and,
even had she seen the least chance of gaining a hearing for her own, some obscure disdain and
reluctance would have restrained her.  She knew it was not by explanations and counter-charges
that she could ever hope to recover her lost standing; but even had she felt the least trust
in their efficacy, she would still have been held back by the feeling which had kept her from
defending herself to Gerty Farish--a feeling that was half pride and half humiliation. For
though she knew she had been ruthlessly sacrificed to Bertha Dorset's determination to win
back her husband, and though her own relation to Dorset had been that of the merest good-fellowship,
yet she had been perfectly aware from the outset that her part in the affair was, as Carry
Fisher brutally put it, to distract Dorset's attention from his wife.  That was what she was
"there for": it was the price she had chosen to pay for three months of luxury and freedom
from care.  Her habit of resolutely facing the facts, in her rare moments of introspection,
did not now allow her to put any false gloss on the situation. She had suffered for the very
faithfulness with which she had carried out her part of the tacit compact, but the part was
not a handsome one at best, and she saw it now in all the ugliness of failure.

She saw, too, in the same uncompromising light, the train of consequences resulting from that
failure; and these became clearer to her with every day of her weary lingering in town. She
stayed on partly for the comfort of Gerty Farish's nearness, and partly for lack of knowing
where to go. She understood well enough the nature of the task before her. She must set out
to regain, little by little, the position she had lost; and the first step in the tedious task
was to find out, as soon as possible, on how many of her friends she could count. Her hopes
were mainly centred on Mrs. Trenor, who had treasures of easy-going tolerance for those who
were amusing or useful to her, and in the noisy rush of whose existence the still small voice
of detraction was slow to make itself heard. But Judy, though she must have been apprised of
Miss Bart's return, had not even recognized it by the formal note of condolence which her friend's
bereavement demanded.  Any advance on Lily's side might have been perilous: there was nothing
to do but to trust to the happy chance of an accidental meeting, and Lily knew that, even so
late in the season, there was always a hope of running across her friends in their frequent
passages through town.

To this end she assiduously showed herself at the restaurants they frequented, where, attended
by the troubled Gerty, she lunched luxuriously, as she said, on her expectations.

"My dear Gerty, you wouldn't have me let the head-waiter see that I've nothing to live on but
Aunt Julia's legacy? Think of Grace Stepney's satisfaction if she came in and found us lunching
on cold mutton and tea! What sweet shall we have today, dear--COUPE JACQUES or PECHES A LA MELBA?"

She dropped the MENU abruptly, with a quick heightening of colour, and Gerty, following her
glance, was aware of the advance, from an inner room, of a party headed by Mrs. Trenor and
Carry Fisher. It was impossible for these ladies and their companions--among whom Lily had
at once distinguished both Trenor and Rosedale--not to pass, in going out, the table at which
the two girls were seated; and Gerty's sense of the fact betrayed itself in the helpless trepidation
of her manner.  Miss Bart, on the contrary, borne forward on the wave of her buoyant grace,
and neither shrinking from her friends nor appearing to lie in wait for them, gave to the encounter
the touch of naturalness which she could impart to the most strained situations. Such embarrassment
as was shown was on Mrs. Trenor's side, and manifested itself in the mingling of exaggerated
warmth with imperceptible reservations. Her loudly affirmed pleasure at seeing Miss Bart took
the form of a nebulous generalization, which included neither enquiries as to her future nor
the expression of a definite wish to see her again. Lily, well-versed in the language of these
omissions, knew that they were equally intelligible to the other members of the party: even
Rosedale, flushed as he was with the importance of keeping such company, at once took the temperature
of Mrs. Trenor's cordiality, and reflected it in his off-hand greeting of Miss Bart. Trenor,
red and uncomfortable, had cut short his salutations on the pretext of a word to say to the
head-waiter; and the rest of the group soon melted away in Mrs. Trenor's wake.

It was over in a moment--the waiter, MENU in hand, still hung on the result of the choice between
COUPE JACQUES and PECHES A LA MELBA--but Miss Bart, in the interval, had taken the measure
of her fate. Where Judy Trenor led, all the world would follow; and Lily had the doomed sense
of the castaway who has signalled in vain to fleeing sails.

In a flash she remembered Mrs. Trenor's complaints of Carry Fisher's rapacity, and saw that
they denoted an unexpected acquaintance with her husband's private affairs. In the large tumultuous
disorder of the life at Bellomont, where no one seemed to have time to observe any one else,
and private aims and personal interests were swept along unheeded in the rush of collective
activities, Lily had fancied herself sheltered from inconvenient scrutiny; but if Judy knew
when Mrs. Fisher borrowed money of her husband, was she likely to ignore the same transaction
on Lily's part? If she was careless of his affections she was plainly jealous of his pocket;
and in that fact Lily read the explanation of her rebuff. The immediate result of these conclusions
was the passionate resolve to pay back her debt to Trenor. That obligation discharged, she
would have but a thousand dollars of Mrs. Peniston's legacy left, and nothing to live on but
her own small income, which was considerably less than Gerty Farish's wretched pittance; but
this consideration gave way to the imperative claim of her wounded pride.  She must be quits
with the Trenors first; after that she would take thought for the future.

In her ignorance of legal procrastinations she had supposed that her legacy would be paid over
within a few days of the reading of her aunt's will; and after an interval of anxious suspense,
she wrote to enquire the cause of the delay. There was another interval before Mrs. Peniston's
lawyer, who was also one of the executors, replied to the effect that, some questions having
arisen relative to the interpretation of the will, he and his associates might not be in a
position to pay the legacies till the close of the twelvemonth legally allotted for their settlement.
Bewildered and indignant, Lily resolved to try the effect of a personal appeal; but she returned
from her expedition with a sense of the powerlessness of beauty and charm against the unfeeling
processes of the law. It seemed intolerable to live on for another year under the weight of
her debt; and in her extremity she decided to turn to Miss Stepney, who still lingered in town,
immersed in the delectable duty of "going over" her benefactress's effects. It was bitter enough
for Lily to ask a favour of Grace Stepney, but the alternative was bitterer still; and one
morning she presented herself at Mrs. Peniston's, where Grace, for the facilitation of her
pious task, had taken up a provisional abode.

The strangeness of entering as a suppliant the house where she had so long commanded, increased
Lily's desire to shorten the ordeal; and when Miss Stepney entered the darkened drawing-room,
rustling with the best quality of crape, her visitor went straight to the point: would she
be willing to advance the amount of the expected legacy?

Grace, in reply, wept and wondered at the request, bemoaned the inexorableness of the law,
and was astonished that Lily had not realized the exact similarity of their positions. Did
she think that only the payment of the legacies had been delayed? Why, Miss Stepney herself
had not received a penny of her inheritance, and was paying rent--yes, actually!--for the privilege
of living in a house that belonged to her. She was sure it was not what poor dear cousin Julia
would have wished--she had told the executors so to their faces; but they were inaccessible
to reason, and there was nothing to do but to wait. Let Lily take example by her, and be patient--let
them both remember how beautifully patient cousin Julia had always been.

Lily made a movement which showed her imperfect assimilation of this example. "But you will
have everything, Grace--it would be easy for you to borrow ten times the amount I am asking for."

"Borrow--easy for me to borrow?" Grace Stepney rose up before her in sable wrath. "Do you imagine
for a moment that I would raise money on my expectations from cousin Julia, when I know so
well her unspeakable horror of every transaction of the sort? Why, Lily, if you must know the
truth, it was the idea of your being in debt that brought on her illness--you remember she
had a slight attack before you sailed. Oh, I don't know the particulars, of course--I don't
WANT to know them--but there were rumours about your affairs that made her most unhappy--no
one could be with her without seeing that. I can't help it if you are offended by my telling
you this now--if I can do anything to make you realize the folly of your course, and how deeply
SHE disapproved of it, I shall feel it is the truest way of making up to you for her loss."

Chapter 5

It seemed to Lily, as Mrs. Peniston's door closed on her, that she was taking a final leave
of her old life. The future stretched before her dull and bare as the deserted length of Fifth
Avenue, and opportunities showed as meagrely as the few cabs trailing in quest of fares that
did not come. The completeness of the analogy was, however, disturbed as she reached the sidewalk
by the rapid approach of a hansom which pulled up at sight of her.

From beneath its luggage-laden top, she caught the wave of a signalling hand; and the next
moment Mrs. Fisher, springing to the street, had folded her in a demonstrative embrace.

"My dear, you don't mean to say you're still in town? When I saw you the other day at Sherry's
I didn't have time to ask----" She broke off, and added with a burst of frankness: "The truth
is I was HORRID, Lily, and I've wanted to tell you so ever since."

"Oh----" Miss Bart protested, drawing back from her penitent clasp; but Mrs. Fisher went on
with her usual directness: "Look here, Lily, don't let's beat about the bush: half the trouble
in life is caused by pretending there isn't any. That's not my way, and I can only say I'm
thoroughly ashamed of myself for following the other women's lead. But we'll talk of that by
and bye--tell me now where you're staying and what your plans are. I don't suppose you're keeping
house in there with Grace Stepney, eh?--and it struck me you might be rather at loose ends."

In Lily's present mood there was no resisting the honest friendliness of this appeal, and she
said with a smile: "I am at loose ends for the moment, but Gerty Farish is still in town, and
she's good enough to let me be with her whenever she can spare the time."

Mrs. Fisher made a slight grimace. "H'm--that's a temperate joy.  Oh, I know--Gerty's a trump,
and worth all the rest of us put together; but A LA LONGUE you're used to a little higher seasoning,
aren't you, dear? And besides, I suppose she'll be off herself before long--the first of August,
you say? Well, look here, you can't spend your summer in town; we'll talk of that later too.
But meanwhile, what do you say to putting a few things in a trunk and coming down with me to
the Sam Gormers' tonight?"

And as Lily stared at the breathless suddenness of the suggestion, she continued with her easy
laugh: "You don't know them and they don't know you; but that don't make a rap of difference.
They've taken the Van Alstyne place at Roslyn, and I've got CARTE BLANCHE to bring my friends
down there--the more the merrier. They do things awfully well, and there's to be rather a jolly
party there this week----" she broke off, checked by an undefinable change in Miss Bart's expression.
"Oh, I don't mean YOUR particular set, you know: rather a different crowd, but very good fun.
The fact is, the Gormers have struck out on a line of their own: what they want is to have
a good time, and to have it in their own way. They gave the other thing a few months' trial,
under my distinguished auspices, and they were really doing extremely well--getting on a good
deal faster than the Brys, just because they didn't care as much--but suddenly they decided
that the whole business bored them, and that what they wanted was a crowd they could really
feel at home with. Rather original of them, don't you think so? Mattie Gormer HAS got aspirations
still; women always have; but she's awfully easy-going, and Sam won't be bothered, and they
both like to be the most important people in sight, so they've started a sort of continuous
performance of their own, a kind of social Coney Island, where everybody is welcome who can
make noise enough and doesn't put on airs.  I think it's awfully good fun myself--some of the
artistic set, you know, any pretty actress that's going, and so on. This week, for instance,
they have Audrey Anstell, who made such a hit last spring in 'The Winning of Winny'; and Paul
Morpeth--he's painting Mattie Gormer--and the Dick Bellingers, and Kate Corby--well, every
one you can think of who's jolly and makes a row. Now don't stand there with your nose in the
air, my dear--it will be a good deal better than a broiling Sunday in town, and you'll find
clever people as well as noisy ones--Morpeth, who admires Mattie enormously, always brings
one or two of his set."

Mrs. Fisher drew Lily toward the hansom with friendly authority.  "Jump in now, there's a dear,
and we'll drive round to your hotel and have your things packed, and then we'll have tea, and
the two maids can meet us at the train."

It was a good deal better than a broiling Sunday in town--of that no doubt remained to Lily
as, reclining in the shade of a leafy verandah, she looked seaward across a stretch of greensward
picturesquely dotted with groups of ladies in lace raiment and men in tennis flannels. The
huge Van Alstyne house and its rambling dependencies were packed to their fullest capacity
with the Gormers' week-end guests, who now, in the radiance of the Sunday forenoon, were dispersing
themselves over the grounds in quest of the various distractions the place afforded: distractions
ranging from tennis-courts to shooting-galleries, from bridge and whiskey within doors to motors
and steam-launches without. Lily had the odd sense of having been caught up into the crowd
as carelessly as a passenger is gathered in by an express train. The blonde and genial Mrs.
Gormer might, indeed, have figured the conductor, calmly assigning seats to the rush of travellers,
while Carry Fisher represented the porter pushing their bags into place, giving them their
numbers for the dining-car, and warning them when their station was at hand. The train, meanwhile,
had scarcely slackened speed--life whizzed on with a deafening' rattle and roar, in which one
traveller at least found a welcome refuge from the sound of her own thoughts.  The Gormer MILIEU
represented a social out-skirt which Lily had always fastidiously avoided; but it struck her,
now that she was in it, as only a flamboyant copy of her own world, a caricature approximating
the real thing as the "society play" approaches the manners of the drawing-room. The people
about her were doing the same things as the Trenors, the Van Osburghs and the Dorsets: the
difference lay in a hundred shades of aspect and manner, from the pattern of the men's waistcoats
to the inflexion of the women's voices. Everything was pitched in a higher key, and there was
more of each thing: more noise, more colour, more champagne, more familiarity--but also greater
good-nature, less rivalry, and a fresher capacity for enjoyment.

Miss Bart's arrival had been welcomed with an uncritical friendliness that first irritated
her pride and then brought her to a sharp sense of her own situation--of the place in life
which, for the moment, she must accept and make the best of.  These people knew her story--of
that her first long talk with Carry Fisher had left no doubt: she was publicly branded as the
heroine of a "queer" episode--but instead of shrinking from her as her own friends had done,
they received her without question into the easy promiscuity of their lives. They swallowed
her past as easily as they did Miss Anstell's, and with no apparent sense of any difference
in the size of the mouthful: all they asked was that she should--in her own way, for they recognized
a diversity of gifts--contribute as much to the general amusement as that graceful actress,
whose talents, when off the stage, were of the most varied order. Lily felt at once that any
tendency to be "stuck-up," to mark a sense of differences and distinctions, would be fatal
to her continuance in the Gormer set. To be taken in on such terms--and into such a world!--was
hard enough to the lingering pride in her; but she realized, with a pang of self-contempt,
that to be excluded from it would, after all, be harder still. For, almost at once, she had
felt the insidious charm of slipping back into a life where every material difficulty was smoothed
away. The sudden escape from a stifling hotel in a dusty deserted city to the space and luxury
of a great country-house fanned by sea breezes, had produced a state of moral lassitude agreeable
enough after the nervous tension and physical discomfort of the past weeks. For the moment
she must yield to the refreshment her senses craved--after that she would reconsider her situation,
and take counsel with her dignity. Her enjoyment of her surroundings was, indeed, tinged by
the unpleasant consideration that she was accepting the hospitality and courting the approval
of people she had disdained under other conditions. But she was growing less sensitive on such
points: a hard glaze of indifference was fast forming over her delicacies and susceptibilities,
and each concession to expediency hardened the surface a little more.

On the Monday, when the party disbanded with uproarious adieux, the return to town threw into
stronger relief the charms of the life she was leaving. The other guests were dispersing to
take up the same existence in a different setting: some at Newport, some at Bar Harbour, some
in the elaborate rusticity of an Adirondack camp. Even Gerty Farish, who welcomed Lily's return
with tender solicitude, would soon be preparing to join the aunt with whom she spent her summers
on Lake George: only Lily herself remained without plan or purpose, stranded in a backwater
of the great current of pleasure. But Carry Fisher, who had insisted on transporting her to
her own house, where she herself was to perch for a day or two on the way to the Brys' camp,
came to the rescue with a new suggestion.

"Look here, Lily--I'll tell you what it is: I want you to take my place with Mattie Gormer
this summer. They're taking a party out to Alaska next month in their private car, and Mattie,
who is the laziest woman alive, wants me to go with them, and relieve her of the bother of
arranging things; but the Brys want me too--oh, yes, we've made it up: didn't I tell you?--and,
to put it frankly, though I like the Gormers best, there's more profit for me in the Brys.
The fact is, they want to try Newport this summer, and if I can make it a success for them
they--well, they'll make it a success for me." Mrs. Fisher clasped her hands enthusiastically.
"Do you know, Lily, the more I think of my idea the better I like it--quite as much for you
as for myself. The Gormers have both taken a tremendous fancy to you, and the trip to Alaska
is--well--the very thing I should want for you just at present."

Miss Bart lifted her eyes with a keen glance. "To take me out of my friends' way, you mean?"
she said quietly; and Mrs. Fisher responded with a deprecating kiss: "To keep you out of their
sight till they realize how much they miss you."

Miss Bart went with the Gormers to Alaska; and the expedition, if it did not produce the effect
anticipated by her friend, had at least the negative advantage of removing her from the fiery
centre of criticism and discussion. Gerty Farish had opposed the plan with all the energy of
her somewhat inarticulate nature. She had even offered to give up her visit to Lake George,
and remain in town with Miss Bart, if the latter would renounce her journey; but Lily could
disguise her real distaste for this plan under a sufficiently valid reason.

"You dear innocent, don't you see," she protested, "that Carry is quite right, and that I must
take up my usual life, and go about among people as much as possible? If my old friends choose
to believe lies about me I shall have to make new ones, that's all; and you know beggars mustn't
be choosers. Not that I don't like Mattie Gormer--I DO like her: she's kind and honest and
unaffected; and don't you suppose I feel grateful to her for making me welcome at a time when,
as you've yourself seen, my own family have unanimously washed their hands of me?"

Gerty shook her head, mutely unconvinced. She felt not only that Lily was cheapening herself
by making use of an intimacy she would never have cultivated from choice, but that, in drifting
back now to her former manner of life, she was forfeiting her last chance of ever escaping
from it. Gerty had but an obscure conception of what Lily's actual experience had been: but
its consequences had established a lasting hold on her pity since the memorable night when
she had offered up her own secret hope to her friend's extremity. To characters like Gerty's
such a sacrifice constitutes a moral claim on the part of the person in whose behalf it has
been made. Having once helped Lily, she must continue to help her; and helping her, must believe
in her, because faith is the main-spring of such natures. But even if Miss Bart, after her
renewed taste of the amenities of life, could have returned to the barrenness of a New York
August, mitigated only by poor Gerty's presence, her worldly wisdom would have counselled her
against such an act of abnegation. She knew that Carry Fisher was right: that an opportune
absence might be the first step toward rehabilitation, and that, at any rate, to linger on
in town out of season was a fatal admission of defeat.  From the Gormers' tumultuous progress
across their native continent, she returned with an altered view of her situation.  The renewed
habit of luxury--the daily waking to an assured absence of care and presence of material ease--gradually
blunted her appreciation of these values, and left her more conscious of the void they could
not fill. Mattie Gormer's undiscriminating good-nature, and the slap-dash sociability of her
friends, who treated Lily precisely as they treated each other--all these characteristic notes
of difference began to wear upon her endurance; and the more she saw to criticize in her companions,
the less justification she found for making use of them. The longing to get back to her former
surroundings hardened to a fixed idea; but with the strengthening of her purpose came the inevitable
perception that, to attain it, she must exact fresh concessions from her pride. These, for
the moment, took the unpleasant form of continuing to cling to her hosts after their return
from Alaska. Little as she was in the key of their MILIEU, her immense social facility, her
long habit of adapting herself to others without suffering her own outline to be blurred, the
skilled manipulation of all the polished implements of her craft, had won for her an important
place in the Gormer group. If their resonant hilarity could never be hers, she contributed
a note of easy elegance more valuable to Mattie Gormer than the louder passages of the band.
Sam Gormer and his special cronies stood indeed a little in awe of her; but Mattie's following,
headed by Paul Morpeth, made her feel that they prized her for the very qualities they most
conspicuously lacked. If Morpeth, whose social indolence was as great as his artistic activity,
had abandoned himself to the easy current of the Gormer existence, where the minor exactions
of politeness were unknown or ignored, and a man could either break his engagements, or keep
them in a painting-jacket and slippers, he still preserved his sense of differences, and his
appreciation of graces he had no time to cultivate. During the preparations for the Brys' TABLEAUX
he had been immensely struck by Lily's plastic possibilities--"not the face: too self-controlled
for expression; but the rest of her--gad, what a model she'd make!"--and though his abhorrence
of the world in which he had seen her was too great for him to think of seeking her there,
he was fully alive to the privilege of having her to look at and listen to while he lounged
in Mattie Gormer's dishevelled drawing-room.

Lily had thus formed, in the tumult of her surroundings, a little nucleus of friendly relations
which mitigated the crudeness of her course in lingering with the Gormers after their return.
Nor was she without pale glimpses of her own world, especially since the breaking-up of the
Newport season had set the social current once more toward Long Island. Kate Corby, whose tastes
made her as promiscuous as Carry Fisher was rendered by her necessities, occasionally descended
on the Gormers, where, after a first stare of surprise, she took Lily's presence almost too
much as a matter of course. Mrs. Fisher, too, appearing frequently in the neighbourhood, drove
over to impart her experiences and give Lily what she called the latest report from the weather-bureau;
and the latter, who had never directly invited her confidence, could yet talk with her more
freely than with Gerty Farish, in whose presence it was impossible even to admit the existence
of much that Mrs. Fisher conveniently took for granted.

Mrs. Fisher, moreover, had no embarrassing curiosity. She did not wish to probe the inwardness
of Lily's situation, but simply to view it from the outside, and draw her conclusions accordingly;
and these conclusions, at the end of a confidential talk, she summed up to her friend in the
succinct remark: "You must marry as soon as you can."

Lily uttered a faint laugh--for once Mrs. Fisher lacked originality.  "Do you mean, like Gerty
Farish, to recommend the unfailing panacea of 'a good man's love'?"

"No--I don't think either of my candidates would answer to that description," said Mrs. Fisher
after a pause of reflection.

"Either? Are there actually two?"

"Well, perhaps I ought to say one and a half--for the moment."

Miss Bart received this with increasing amusement. "Other things being equal, I think I should
prefer a half-husband: who is he?"

"Don't fly out at me till you hear my reasons--George Dorset."

"Oh----" Lily murmured reproachfully; but Mrs. Fisher pressed on unrebuffed. "Well, why not?
They had a few weeks' honeymoon when they first got back from Europe, but now things are going
badly with them again. Bertha has been behaving more than ever like a madwoman, and George's
powers of credulity are very nearly exhausted. They're at their place here, you know, and I
spent last Sunday with them. It was a ghastly party--no one else but poor Neddy Silverton,
who looks like a galley-slave (they used to talk of my making that poor boy unhappy!)--and
after luncheon George carried me off on a long walk, and told me the end would have to come soon."

Miss Bart made an incredulous gesture. "As far as that goes, the end will never come--Bertha
will always know how to get him back when she wants him."

Mrs. Fisher continued to observe her tentatively. "Not if he has any one else to turn to! Yes--that's
just what it comes to: the poor creature can't stand alone. And I remember him such a good
fellow, full of life and enthusiasm." She paused, and went on, dropping her glance from Lily's:
"He wouldn't stay with her ten minutes if he KNEW----"

"Knew----?" Miss Bart repeated.

"What YOU must, for instance--with the opportunities you've had!  If he had positive proof,
I mean----"

Lily interrupted her with a deep blush of displeasure. "Please let us drop the subject, Carry:
it's too odious to me." And to divert her companion's attention she added, with an attempt
at lightness: "And your second candidate? We must not forget him."

Mrs. Fisher echoed her laugh. "I wonder if you'll cry out just as loud if I say--Sim Rosedale?"

Miss Bart did not cry out: she sat silent, gazing thoughtfully at her friend. The suggestion,
in truth, gave expression to a possibility which, in the last weeks, had more than once recurred
to her; but after a moment she said carelessly: "Mr. Rosedale wants a wife who can establish
him in the bosom of the Van Osburghs and Trenors."

Mrs. Fisher caught her up eagerly. "And so YOU could--with his money! Don't you see how beautifully
it would work out for you both?"

"I don't see any way of making him see it," Lily returned, with a laugh intended to dismiss
the subject.

But in reality it lingered with her long after Mrs. Fisher had taken leave. She had seen very
little of Rosedale since her annexation by the Gormers, for he was still steadily bent on penetrating
to the inner Paradise from which she was now excluded; but once or twice, when nothing better
offered, he had turned up for a Sunday, and on these occasions he had left her in no doubt
as to his view of her situation.  That he still admired her was, more than ever, offensively
evident; for in the Gormer circle, where he expanded as in his native element, there were no
puzzling conventions to check the full expression of his approval. But it was in the quality
of his admiration that she read his shrewd estimate of her case. He enjoyed letting the Gormers
see that he had known "Miss Lily"--she was "Miss Lily" to him now--before they had had the
faintest social existence: enjoyed more especially impressing Paul Morpeth with the distance
to which their intimacy dated back. But he let it be felt that that intimacy was a mere ripple
on the surface of a rushing social current, the kind of relaxation which a man of large interests
and manifold preoccupations permits himself in his hours of ease.

The necessity of accepting this view of their past relation, and of meeting it in the key of
pleasantry prevalent among her new friends, was deeply humiliating to Lily. But she dared less
than ever to quarrel with Rosedale. She suspected that her rejection rankled among the most
unforgettable of his rebuffs, and the fact that he knew something of her wretched transaction
with Trenor, and was sure to put the basest construction on it, seemed to place her hopelessly
in his power. Yet at Carry Fisher's suggestion a new hope had stirred in her. Much as she disliked
Rosedale, she no longer absolutely despised him. For he was gradually attaining his object
in life, and that, to Lily, was always less despicable than to miss it. With the slow unalterable
persistency which she had always felt in him, he was making his way through the dense mass
of social antagonisms. Already his wealth, and the masterly use he had made of it, were giving
him an enviable prominence in the world of affairs, and placing Wall Street under obligations
which only Fifth Avenue could repay. In response to these claims, his name began to figure
on municipal committees and charitable boards; he appeared at banquets to distinguished strangers,
and his candidacy at one of the fashionable clubs was discussed with diminishing opposition.
He had figured once or twice at the Trenor dinners, and had learned to speak with just the
right note of disdain of the big Van Osburgh crushes; and all he now needed was a wife whose
affiliations would shorten the last tedious steps of his ascent.  It was with that object that,
a year earlier, he had fixed his affections on Miss Bart; but in the interval he had mounted
nearer to the goal, while she had lost the power to abbreviate the remaining steps of the way.
All this she saw with the clearness of vision that came to her in moments of despondency. It
was success that dazzled her--she could distinguish facts plainly enough in the twilight of
failure. And the twilight, as she now sought to pierce it, was gradually lighted by a faint
spark of reassurance. Under the utilitarian motive of Rosedale's wooing she had felt, clearly
enough, the heat of personal inclination. She would not have detested him so heartily had she
not known that he dared to admire her. What, then, if the passion persisted, though the other
motive had ceased to sustain it? She had never even tried to please him--he had been drawn
to her in spite of her manifest disdain. What if she now chose to exert the power which, even
in its passive state, he had felt so strongly? What if she made him marry her for love, now
that he had no other reason for marrying her?

Chapter 6

As became persons of their rising consequence, the Gormers were engaged in building a country-house
on Long Island; and it was a part of Miss Bart's duty to attend her hostess on frequent visits
of inspection to the new estate. There, while Mrs. Gormer plunged into problems of lighting
and sanitation, Lily had leisure to wander, in the bright autumn air, along the tree-fringed
bay to which the land declined.  Little as she was addicted to solitude, there had come to
be moments when it seemed a welcome escape from the empty noises of her life. She was weary
of being swept passively along a current of pleasure and business in which she had no share;
weary of seeing other people pursue amusement and squander money, while she felt herself of
no more account among them than an expensive toy in the hands of a spoiled child.

It was in this frame of mind that, striking back from the shore one morning into the windings
of an unfamiliar lane, she came suddenly upon the figure of George Dorset. The Dorset place
was in the immediate neighbourhood of the Gormers' newly-acquired estate, and in her motor-flights
thither with Mrs. Gormer, Lily had caught one or two passing glimpses of the couple; but they
moved in so different an orbit that she had not considered the possibility of a direct encounter.

Dorset, swinging along with bent head, in moody abstraction, did not see Miss Bart till he
was close upon her; but the sight, instead of bringing him to a halt, as she had half-expected,
sent him toward her with an eagerness which found expression in his opening words.

"Miss Bart!--You'll shake hands, won't you? I've been hoping to meet you--I should have written
to you if I'd dared." His face, with its tossed red hair and straggling moustache, had a driven
uneasy look, as though life had become an unceasing race between himself and the thoughts at
his heels.

The look drew a word of compassionate greeting from Lily, and he pressed on, as if encouraged
by her tone: "I wanted to apologize--to ask you to forgive me for the miserable part I played----"

She checked him with a quick gesture. "Don't let us speak of it: I was very sorry for you,"
she said, with a tinge of disdain which, as she instantly perceived, was not lost on him.

He flushed to his haggard eyes, flushed so cruelly that she repented the thrust. "You might
well be; you don't know--you must let me explain. I was deceived: abominably deceived----"

"I am still more sorry for you, then," she interposed, without irony; "but you must see that
I am not exactly the person with whom the subject can be discussed."

He met this with a look of genuine wonder. "Why not? Isn't it to you, of all people, that I
owe an explanation----"

"No explanation is necessary: the situation was perfectly clear to me."

"Ah----" he murmured, his head drooping again, and his irresolute hand switching at the underbrush
along the lane. But as Lily made a movement to pass on, he broke out with fresh vehemence:
"Miss Bart, for God's sake don't turn from me! We used to be good friends--you were always
kind to me--and you don't know how I need a friend now."

The lamentable weakness of the words roused a motion of pity in Lily's breast. She too needed
friends--she had tasted the pang of loneliness; and her resentment of Bertha Dorset's cruelty
softened her heart to the poor wretch who was after all the chief of Bertha's victims.

"I still wish to be kind; I feel no ill-will toward you," she said.  "But you must understand
that after what has happened we can't be friends again--we can't see each other."

"Ah, you ARE kind--you're merciful--you always were!" He fixed his miserable gaze on her. "But
why can't we be friends--why not, when I've repented in dust and ashes? Isn't it hard that
you should condemn me to suffer for the falseness, the treachery of others? I was punished
enough at the time--is there to be no respite for me?"

"I should have thought you had found complete respite in the reconciliation which was effected
at my expense," Lily began, with renewed impatience; but he broke in imploringly: "Don't put
it in that way--when that's been the worst of my punishment. My God! what could I do--wasn't
I powerless? You were singled out as a sacrifice: any word I might have said would have been
turned against you----"

"I have told you I don't blame you; all I ask you to understand is that, after the use Bertha
chose to make of me--after all that her behaviour has since implied--it's impossible that you
and I should meet."

He continued to stand before her, in his dogged weakness. "Is it--need it be? Mightn't there
be circumstances----?" he checked himself, slashing at the wayside weeds in a wider radius.
Then he began again: "Miss Bart, listen--give me a minute. If we're not to meet again, at least
let me have a hearing now. You say we can't be friends after--after what has happened. But
can't I at least appeal to your pity? Can't I move you if I ask you to think of me as a prisoner--a
prisoner you alone can set free?"

Lily's inward start betrayed itself in a quick blush: was it possible that this was really
the sense of Carry Fisher's adumbrations?

"I can't see how I can possibly be of any help to you," she murmured, drawing back a little
from the mounting excitement of his look.

Her tone seemed to sober him, as it had so often done in his stormiest moments. The stubborn
lines of his face relaxed, and he said, with an abrupt drop to docility: "You WOULD see, if
you'd be as merciful as you used to be: and heaven knows I've never needed it more!"

She paused a moment, moved in spite of herself by this reminder of her influence over him.
Her fibres had been softened by suffering, and the sudden glimpse into his mocked and broken
life disarmed her contempt for his weakness.

"I am very sorry for you--I would help you willingly; but you must have other friends, other
advisers."

"I never had a friend like you," he answered simply. "And besides--can't you see?--you're the
only person"--his voice dropped to a whisper--"the only person who knows."

Again she felt her colour change; again her heart rose in precipitate throbs to meet what she
felt was coming. He lifted his eyes to her entreatingly. "You do see, don't you? You understand?
I'm desperate--I'm at the end of my tether. I want to be free, and you can free me. I know
you can. You don't want to keep me bound fast in hell, do you? You can't want to take such
a vengeance as that. You were always kind--your eyes are kind now. You say you're sorry for
me. Well, it rests with you to show it; and heaven knows there's nothing to keep you back.
You understand, of course--there wouldn't be a hint of publicity--not a sound or a syllable
to connect you with the thing. It would never come to that, you know: all I need is to be able
to say definitely: 'I know this--and this--and this'--and the fight would drop, and the way
be cleared, and the whole abominable business swept out of sight in a second."

He spoke pantingly, like a tired runner, with breaks of exhaustion between his words; and through
the breaks she caught, as through the shifting rents of a fog, great golden vistas of peace
and safety. For there was no mistaking the definite intention behind his vague appeal; she
could have filled up the blanks without the help of Mrs. Fisher's insinuations. Here was a
man who turned to her in the extremity of his loneliness and his humiliation: if she came to
him at such a moment he would be hers with all the force of his deluded faith. And the power
to make him so lay in her hand--lay there in a completeness he could not even remotely conjecture.
Revenge and rehabilitation might be hers at a stroke--there was something dazzling in the completeness
of the opportunity.

She stood silent, gazing away from him down the autumnal stretch of the deserted lane. And
suddenly fear possessed her--fear of herself, and of the terrible force of the temptation.
All her past weaknesses were like so many eager accomplices drawing her toward the path their
feet had already smoothed. She turned quickly, and held out her hand to Dorset.

"Goodbye--I'm sorry; there's nothing in the world that I can do."

"Nothing? Ah, don't say that," he cried; "say what's true: that you abandon me like the others.
You, the only creature who could have saved me!"

"Goodbye--goodbye," she repeated hurriedly; and as she moved away she heard him cry out on
a last note of entreaty: "At least you'll let me see you once more?"

Lily, on regaining the Gormer grounds, struck rapidly across the lawn toward the unfinished
house, where she fancied that her hostess might be speculating, not too resignedly, on the
cause of her delay; for, like many unpunctual persons, Mrs. Gormer disliked to be kept waiting.

As Miss Bart reached the avenue, however, she saw a smart phaeton with a high-stepping pair
disappear behind the shrubbery in the direction of the gate; and on the doorstep stood Mrs.
Gormer, with a glow of retrospective pleasure on her open countenance. At sight of Lily the
glow deepened to an embarrassed red, and she said with a slight laugh: "Did you see my visitor?
Oh, I thought you came back by the avenue. It was Mrs. George Dorset--she said she'd dropped
in to make a neighbourly call."

Lily met the announcement with her usual composure, though her experience of Bertha's idiosyncrasies
would not have led her to include the neighbourly instinct among them; and Mrs. Gormer, relieved
to see that she gave no sign of surprise, went on with a deprecating laugh: "Of course what
really brought her was curiosity--she made me take her all over the house. But no one could
have been nicer--no airs, you know, and so good-natured: I can quite see why people think her
so fascinating."

This surprising event, coinciding too completely with her meeting with Dorset to be regarded
as contingent upon it, had yet immediately struck Lily with a vague sense of foreboding. It
was not in Bertha's habits to be neighbourly, much less to make advances to any one outside
the immediate circle of her affinities. She had always consistently ignored the world of outer
aspirants, or had recognized its individual members only when prompted by motives of self-interest;
and the very capriciousness of her condescensions had, as Lily was aware, given them special
value in the eyes of the persons she distinguished. Lily saw this now in Mrs. Gormer's unconcealable
complacency, and in the happy irrelevance with which, for the next day or two, she quoted Bertha's
opinions and speculated on the origin of her gown. All the secret ambitions which Mrs. Gormer's
native indolence, and the attitude of her companions, kept in habitual abeyance, were now germinating
afresh in the glow of Bertha's advances; and whatever the cause of the latter, Lily saw that,
if they were followed up, they were likely to have a disturbing effect upon her own future.

She had arranged to break the length of her stay with her new friends by one or two visits
to other acquaintances as recent; and on her return from this somewhat depressing excursion
she was immediately conscious that Mrs. Dorset's influence was still in the air. There had
been another exchange of visits, a tea at a country-club, an encounter at a hunt ball; there
was even a rumour of an approaching dinner, which Mattie Gormer, with an unnatural effort at
discretion, tried to smuggle out of the conversation whenever Miss Bart took part in it.

The latter had already planned to return to town after a farewell Sunday with her friends;
and, with Gerty Farish's aid, had discovered a small private hotel where she might establish
herself for the winter.  The hotel being on the edge of a fashionable neighbourhood, the price
of the few square feet she was to occupy was considerably in excess of her means; but she found
a justification for her dislike of poorer quarters in the argument that, at this particular
juncture, it was of the utmost importance to keep up a show of prosperity. In reality, it was
impossible for her, while she had the means to pay her way for a week ahead, to lapse into
a form of existence like Gerty Farish's. She had never been so near the brink of insolvency;
but she could at least manage to meet her weekly hotel bill, and having settled the heaviest
of her previous debts out of the money she had received from Trenor, she had a still fair margin
of credit to go upon. The situation, however, was not agreeable enough to lull her to complete
unconsciousness of its insecurity.  Her rooms, with their cramped outlook down a sallow vista
of brick walls and fire-escapes, her lonely meals in the dark restaurant with its surcharged
ceiling and haunting smell of coffee--all these material discomforts, which were yet to be
accounted as so many privileges soon to be withdrawn, kept constantly before her the disadvantages
of her state; and her mind reverted the more insistently to Mrs. Fisher's counsels.  Beat about
the question as she would, she knew the outcome of it was that she must try to marry Rosedale;
and in this conviction she was fortified by an unexpected visit from George Dorset.

She found him, on the first Sunday after her return to town, pacing her narrow sitting-room
to the imminent peril of the few knick-knacks with which she had tried to disguise its plush
exuberances; but the sight of her seemed to quiet him, and he said meekly that he hadn't come
to bother her--that he asked only to be allowed to sit for half an hour and talk of anything
she liked. In reality, as she knew, he had but one subject: himself and his wretchedness; and
it was the need of her sympathy that had drawn him back. But he began with a pretence of questioning
her about herself, and as she replied, she saw that, for the first time, a faint realization
of her plight penetrated the dense surface of his self-absorption. Was it possible that her
old beast of an aunt had actually cut her off? That she was living alone like this because
there was no one else for her to go to, and that she really hadn't more than enough to keep
alive on till the wretched little legacy was paid? The fibres of sympathy were nearly atrophied
in him, but he was suffering so intensely that he had a faint glimpse of what other sufferings
might mean--and, as she perceived, an almost simultaneous perception of the way in which her
particular misfortunes might serve him.

When at length she dismissed him, on the pretext that she must dress for dinner, he lingered
entreatingly on the threshold to blurt out: "It's been such a comfort--do say you'll let me
see you again--" But to this direct appeal it was impossible to give an assent; and she said
with friendly decisiveness: "I'm sorry--but you know why I can't."

He coloured to the eyes, pushed the door shut, and stood before her embarrassed but insistent.
"I know how you might, if you would--if things were different--and it lies with you to make
them so. It's just a word to say, and you put me out of my misery!"

Their eyes met, and for a second she trembled again with the nearness of the temptation. "You're
mistaken; I know nothing; I saw nothing," she exclaimed, striving, by sheer force of reiteration,
to build a barrier between herself and her peril; and as he turned away, groaning out "You
sacrifice us both," she continued to repeat, as if it were a charm: "I know nothing--absolutely
nothing."

Lily had seen little of Rosedale since her illuminating talk with Mrs. Fisher, but on the two
or three occasions when they had met she was conscious of having distinctly advanced in his
favour.  There could be no doubt that he admired her as much as ever, and she believed it rested
with herself to raise his admiration to the point where it should bear down the lingering counsels
of expediency. The task was not an easy one; but neither was it easy, in her long sleepless
nights, to face the thought of what George Dorset was so clearly ready to offer.  Baseness
for baseness, she hated the other least: there were even moments when a marriage with Rosedale
seemed the only honourable solution of her difficulties. She did not indeed let her imagination
range beyond the day of plighting: after that everything faded into a haze of material well-being,
in which the personality of her benefactor remained mercifully vague. She had learned, in her
long vigils, that there were certain things not good to think of, certain midnight images that
must at any cost be exorcised--and one of these was the image of herself as Rosedale's wife.

Carry Fisher, on the strength, as she frankly owned, of the Brys' Newport success, had taken
for the autumn months a small house at Tuxedo; and thither Lily was bound on the Sunday after
Dorset's visit.  Though it was nearly dinner-time when she arrived, her hostess was still out,
and the firelit quiet of the small silent house descended on her spirit with a sense of peace
and familiarity. It may be doubted if such an emotion had ever before been evoked by Carry
Fisher's surroundings; but, contrasted to the world in which Lily had lately lived, there was
an air of repose and stability in the very placing of the furniture, and in the quiet competence
of the parlour-maid who led her up to her room. Mrs. Fisher's unconventionality was, after
all, a merely superficial divergence from an inherited social creed, while the manners of the
Gormer circle represented their first attempt to formulate such a creed for themselves.

It was the first time since her return from Europe that Lily had found herself in a congenial
atmosphere, and the stirring of familiar associations had almost prepared her, as she descended
the stairs before dinner, to enter upon a group of her old acquaintances. But this expectation
was instantly checked by the reflection that the friends who remained loyal were precisely
those who would be least willing to expose her to such encounters; and it was hardly with surprise
that she found, instead, Mr. Rosedale kneeling domestically on the drawing-room hearth before
his hostess's little girl.

Rosedale in the paternal role was hardly a figure to soften Lily; yet she could not but notice
a quality of homely goodness in his advances to the child. They were not, at any rate, the
premeditated and perfunctory endearments of the guest under his hostess's eye, for he and the
little girl had the room to themselves; and something in his attitude made him seem a simple
and kindly being compared to the small critical creature who endured his homage. Yes, he would
be kind--Lily, from the threshold, had time to feel--kind in his gross, unscrupulous, rapacious
way, the way of the predatory creature with his mate.  She had but a moment in which to consider
whether this glimpse of the fireside man mitigated her repugnance, or gave it, rather, a more
concrete and intimate form; for at sight of her he was immediately on his feet again, the florid
and dominant Rosedale of Mattie Gormer's drawing-room.

It was no surprise to Lily to find that he had been selected as her only fellow-guest. Though
she and her hostess had not met since the latter's tentative discussion of her future, Lily
knew that the acuteness which enabled Mrs. Fisher to lay a safe and pleasant course through
a world of antagonistic forces was not infrequently exercised for the benefit of her friends.
It was, in fact, characteristic of Carry that, while she actively gleaned her own stores from
the fields of affluence, her real sympathies were on the other side--with the unlucky, the
unpopular, the unsuccessful, with all her hungry fellow-toilers in the shorn stubble of success.

Mrs. Fisher's experience guarded her against the mistake of exposing Lily, for the first evening,
to the unmitigated impression of Rosedale's personality. Kate Corby and two or three men dropped
in to dinner, and Lily, alive to every detail of her friend's method, saw that such opportunities
as had been contrived for her were to be deferred till she had, as it were, gained courage
to make effectual use of them. She had a sense of acquiescing in this plan with the passiveness
of a sufferer resigned to the surgeon's touch; and this feeling of almost lethargic helplessness
continued when, after the departure of the guests, Mrs. Fisher followed her upstairs.

"May I come in and smoke a cigarette over your fire? If we talk in my room we shall disturb
the child." Mrs. Fisher looked about her with the eye of the solicitous hostess. "I hope you've
managed to make yourself comfortable, dear? Isn't it a jolly little house? It's such a blessing
to have a few quiet weeks with the baby."

Carry, in her rare moments of prosperity, became so expansively maternal that Miss Bart sometimes
wondered whether, if she could ever get time and money enough, she would not end by devoting
them both to her daughter.

"It's a well-earned rest: I'll say that for myself," she continued, sinking down with a sigh
of content on the pillowed lounge near the fire. "Louisa Bry is a stern task-master: I often
used to wish myself back with the Gormers. Talk of love making people jealous and suspicious--it's
nothing to social ambition!  Louisa used to lie awake at night wondering whether the women
who called on us called on ME because I was with her, or on HER because she was with me; and
she was always laying traps to find out what I thought. Of course I had to disown my oldest
friends, rather than let her suspect she owed me the chance of making a single acquaintance--when,
all the while, that was what she had me there for, and what she wrote me a handsome cheque
for when the season was over!"

Mrs. Fisher was not a woman who talked of herself without cause, and the practice of direct
speech, far from precluding in her an occasional resort to circuitous methods, served rather,
at crucial moments, the purpose of the juggler's chatter while he shifts the contents of his
sleeves. Through the haze of her cigarette smoke she continued to gaze meditatively at Miss
Bart, who, having dismissed her maid, sat before the toilet-table shaking out over her shoulders
the loosened undulations of her hair.

"Your hair's wonderful, Lily. Thinner--? What does that matter, when it's so light and alive?
So many women's worries seem to go straight to their hair--but yours looks as if there had
never been an anxious thought under it. I never saw you look better than you did this evening.
Mattie Gormer told me that Morpeth wanted to paint you--why don't you let him?"

Miss Bart's immediate answer was to address a critical glance to the reflection of the countenance
under discussion. Then she said, with a slight touch of irritation: "I don't care to accept
a portrait from Paul Morpeth."

Mrs. Fisher mused. "N--no. And just now, especially--well, he can do you after you're married."
She waited a moment, and then went on: "By the way, I had a visit from Mattie the other day.
She turned up here last Sunday--and with Bertha Dorset, of all people in the world!"

She paused again to measure the effect of this announcement on her hearer, but the brush in
Miss Bart's lifted hand maintained its unwavering stroke from brow to nape.

"I never was more astonished," Mrs. Fisher pursued. "I don't know two women less predestined
to intimacy--from Bertha's standpoint, that is; for of course poor Mattie thinks it natural
enough that she should be singled out--I've no doubt the rabbit always thinks it is fascinating
the anaconda. Well, you know I've always told you that Mattie secretly longed to bore herself
with the really fashionable; and now that the chance has come, I see that she's capable of
sacrificing all her old friends to it."

Lily laid aside her brush and turned a penetrating glance upon her friend. "Including ME?"
she suggested.

"Ah, my dear," murmured Mrs. Fisher, rising to push back a log from the hearth.

"That's what Bertha means, isn't it?" Miss Bart went on steadily.  "For of course she always
means something; and before I left Long Island I saw that she was beginning to lay her toils
for Mattie."

Mrs. Fisher sighed evasively. "She has her fast now, at any rate.  To think of that loud independence
of Mattie's being only a subtler form of snobbishness! Bertha can already make her believe
anything she pleases--and I'm afraid she's begun, my poor child, by insinuating horrors about you."

Lily flushed under the shadow of her drooping hair. "The world is too vile," she murmured,
averting herself from Mrs. Fisher's anxious scrutiny.

"It's not a pretty place; and the only way to keep a footing in it is to fight it on its own
terms--and above all, my dear, not alone!" Mrs. Fisher gathered up her floating implications
in a resolute grasp. "You've told me so little that I can only guess what has been happening;
but in the rush we all live in there's no time to keep on hating any one without a cause, and
if Bertha is still nasty enough to want to injure you with other people it must be because
she's still afraid of you. From her standpoint there's only one reason for being afraid of
you; and my own idea is that, if you want to punish her, you hold the means in your hand. I
believe you can marry George Dorset tomorrow; but if you don't care for that particular form
of retaliation, the only thing to save you from Bertha is to marry somebody else."

Chapter 7

The light projected on the situation by Mrs. Fisher had the cheerless distinctness of a winter
dawn. It outlined the facts with a cold precision unmodified by shade or colour, and refracted,
as it were, from the blank walls of the surrounding limitations: she had opened windows from
which no sky was ever visible. But the idealist subdued to vulgar necessities must employ vulgar
minds to draw the inferences to which he cannot stoop; and it was easier for Lily to let Mrs.
Fisher formulate her case than to put it plainly to herself. Once confronted with it, however,
she went the full length of its consequences; and these had never been more clearly present
to her than when, the next afternoon, she set out for a walk with Rosedale.

It was one of those still November days when the air is haunted with the light of summer, and
something in the lines of the landscape, and in the golden haze which bathed them, recalled
to Miss Bart the September afternoon when she had climbed the slopes of Bellomont with Selden.
The importunate memory was kept before her by its ironic contrast to her present situation,
since her walk with Selden had represented an irresistible flight from just such a climax as
the present excursion was designed to bring about. But other memories importuned her also;
the recollection of similar situations, as skillfully led up to, but through some malice of
fortune, or her own unsteadiness of purpose, always failing of the intended result. Well, her
purpose was steady enough now. She saw that the whole weary work of rehabilitation must begin
again, and against far greater odds, if Bertha Dorset should succeed in breaking up her friendship
with the Gormers; and her longing for shelter and security was intensified by the passionate
desire to triumph over Bertha, as only wealth and predominance could triumph over her. As the
wife of Rosedale--the Rosedale she felt it in her power to create--she would at least present
an invulnerable front to her enemy.

She had to draw upon this thought, as upon some fiery stimulant, to keep up her part in the
scene toward which Rosedale was too frankly tending. As she walked beside him, shrinking in
every nerve from the way in which his look and tone made free of her, yet telling herself that
this momentary endurance of his mood was the price she must pay for her ultimate power over
him, she tried to calculate the exact point at which concession must turn to resistance, and
the price HE would have to pay be made equally clear to him. But his dapper self-confidence
seemed impenetrable to such hints, and she had a sense of something hard and self-contained
behind the superficial warmth of his manner.

They had been seated for some time in the seclusion of a rocky glen above the lake, when she
suddenly cut short the culmination of an impassioned period by turning upon him the grave loveliness
of her gaze.

"I DO believe what you say, Mr. Rosedale," she said quietly; "and I am ready to marry you whenever
you wish."

Rosedale, reddening to the roots of his glossy hair, received this announcement with a recoil
which carried him to his feet, where he halted before her in an attitude of almost comic discomfiture.

"For I suppose that is what you do wish," she continued, in the same quiet tone. "And, though
I was unable to consent when you spoke to me in this way before, I am ready, now that I know
you so much better, to trust my happiness to your hands."

She spoke with the noble directness which she could command on such occasions, and which was
like a large steady light thrown across the tortuous darkness of the situation. In its inconvenient
brightness Rosedale seemed to waver a moment, as though conscious that every avenue of escape
was unpleasantly illuminated.

Then he gave a short laugh, and drew out a gold cigarette-case, in which, with plump jewelled
fingers, he groped for a gold-tipped cigarette. Selecting one, he paused to contemplate it
a moment before saying: "My dear Miss Lily, I'm sorry if there's been any little misapprehension
between us-but you made me feel my suit was so hopeless that I had really no intention of renewing
it."

Lily's blood tingled with the grossness of the rebuff; but she checked the first leap of her
anger, and said in a tone of gentle dignity: "I have no one but myself to blame if I gave you
the impression that my decision was final."

Her word-play was always too quick for him, and this reply held him in puzzled silence while
she extended her hand and added, with the faintest inflection of sadness in her voice: "Before
we bid each other goodbye, I want at least to thank you for having once thought of me as you did."

The touch of her hand, the moving softness of her look, thrilled a vulnerable fibre in Rosedale.
It was her exquisite inaccessibleness, the sense of distance she could convey without a hint
of disdain, that made it most difficult for him to give her up.

"Why do you talk of saying goodbye? Ain't we going to be good friends all the same?" he urged,
without releasing her hand.

She drew it away quietly. "What is your idea of being good friends?" she returned with a slight
smile. "Making love to me without asking me to marry you?" Rosedale laughed with a recovered
sense of ease.

"Well, that's about the size of it, I suppose. I can't help making love to you--I don't see
how any man could; but I don't mean to ask you to marry me as long as I can keep out of it."

She continued to smile. "I like your frankness; but I am afraid our friendship can hardly continue
on those terms." She turned away, as though to mark that its final term had in fact been reached,
and he followed her for a few steps with a baffled sense of her having after all kept the game
in her own hands.

"Miss Lily----" he began impulsively; but she walked on without seeming to hear him.

He overtook her in a few quick strides, and laid an entreating hand on her arm. "Miss Lily--don't
hurry away like that. You're beastly hard on a fellow; but if you don't mind speaking the truth
I don't see why you shouldn't allow me to do the same."

She had paused a moment with raised brows, drawing away instinctively from his touch, though
she made no effort to evade his words.

"I was under the impression," she rejoined, "that you had done so without waiting for my permission."

"Well--why shouldn't you hear my reasons for doing it, then?  We're neither of us such new
hands that a little plain speaking is going to hurt us. I'm all broken up on you: there's nothing
new in that. I'm more in love with you than I was this time last year; but I've got to face
the fact that the situation is changed."

She continued to confront him with the same air of ironic composure. "You mean to say that
I'm not as desirable a match as you thought me?"

"Yes; that's what I do mean," he answered resolutely. "I won't go into what's happened. I don't
believe the stories about you--I don't WANT to believe them. But they're there, and my not
believing them ain't going to alter the situation."

She flushed to her temples, but the extremity of her need checked the retort on her lip and
she continued to face him composedly.  "If they are not true," she said, "doesn't THAT alter
the situation?"

He met this with a steady gaze of his small stock-taking eyes, which made her feel herself
no more than some superfine human merchandise. "I believe it does in novels; but I'm certain
it don't in real life. You know that as well as I do: if we're speaking the truth, let's speak
the whole truth. Last year I was wild to marry you, and you wouldn't look at me: this year--well,
you appear to be willing. Now, what has changed in the interval?  Your situation, that's all.
Then you thought you could do better; now----"

"You think you can?" broke from her ironically.

"Why, yes, I do: in one way, that is." He stood before her, his hands in his pockets, his chest
sturdily expanded under its vivid waistcoat. "It's this way, you see: I've had a pretty steady
grind of it these last years, working up my social position.  Think it's funny I should say
that? Why should I mind saying I want to get into society? A man ain't ashamed to say he wants
to own a racing stable or a picture gallery. Well, a taste for society's just another kind
of hobby.  Perhaps I want to get even with some of the people who cold-shouldered me last year--put
it that way if it sounds better. Anyhow, I want to have the run of the best houses; and I'm
getting it too, little by little. But I know the quickest way to queer yourself with the right
people is to be seen with the wrong ones; and that's the reason I want to avoid mistakes."

Miss Bart continued to stand before him in a silence that might have expressed either mockery
or a half-reluctant respect for his candour, and after a moment's pause he went on: "There
it is, you see. I'm more in love with you than ever, but if I married you now I'd queer myself
for good and all, and everything I've worked for all these years would be wasted."

She received this with a look from which all tinge of resentment had faded. After the tissue
of social falsehoods in which she had so long moved it was refreshing to step into the open
daylight of an avowed expediency.

"I understand you," she said. "A year ago I should have been of use to you, and now I should
be an encumbrance; and I like you for telling me so quite honestly." She extended her hand
with a smile.

Again the gesture had a disturbing effect upon Mr. Rosedale's self-command. "By George, you're
a dead game sport, you are!" he exclaimed; and as she began once more to move away, he broke
out suddenly--"Miss Lily--stop. You know I don't believe those stories--I believe they were
all got up by a woman who didn't hesitate to sacrifice you to her own convenience----"

Lily drew away with a movement of quick disdain: it was easier to endure his insolence than
his commiseration.

"You are very kind; but I don't think we need discuss the matter farther."

But Rosedale's natural imperviousness to hints made it easy for him to brush such resistance
aside. "I don't want to discuss anything; I just want to put a plain case before you," he persisted.

She paused in spite of herself, held by the note of a new purpose in his look and tone; and
he went on, keeping his eyes firmly upon her: "The wonder to me is that you've waited so long
to get square with that woman, when you've had the power in your hands." She continued silent
under the rush of astonishment that his words produced, and he moved a step closer to ask with
low-toned directness: "Why don't you use those letters of hers you bought last year?"

Lily stood speechless under the shock of the interrogation. In the words preceding it she had
conjectured, at most, an allusion to her supposed influence over George Dorset; nor did the
astonishing indelicacy of the reference diminish the likelihood of Rosedale's resorting to
it. But now she saw how far short of the mark she had fallen; and the surprise of learning
that he had discovered the secret of the letters left her, for the moment, unconscious of the
special use to which he was in the act of putting his knowledge.

Her temporary loss of self-possession gave him time to press his point; and he went on quickly,
as though to secure completer control of the situation: "You see I know where you stand--I
know how completely she's in your power. That sounds like stage-talk, don't it?--but there's
a lot of truth in some of those old gags; and I don't suppose you bought those letters simply
because you're collecting autographs."

She continued to look at him with a deepening bewilderment: her only clear impression resolved
itself into a scared sense of his power.

"You're wondering how I found out about 'em?" he went on, answering her look with a note of
conscious pride. "Perhaps you've forgotten that I'm the owner of the Benedick-but never mind
about that now. Getting on to things is a mighty useful accomplishment in business, and I've
simply extended it to my private affairs. For this IS partly my affair, you see--at least,
it depends on you to make it so. Let's look the situation straight in the eye. Mrs. Dorset,
for reasons we needn't go into, did you a beastly bad turn last spring. Everybody knows what
Mrs. Dorset is, and her best friends wouldn't believe her on oath where their own interests
were concerned; but as long as they're out of the row it's much easier to follow her lead than
to set themselves against it, and you've simply been sacrificed to their laziness and selfishness.
Isn't that a pretty fair statement of the case?--Well, some people say you've got the neatest
kind of an answer in your hands: that George Dorset would marry you tomorrow, if you'd tell
him all you know, and give him the chance to show the lady the door. I daresay he would; but
you don't seem to care for that particular form of getting even, and, taking a purely business
view of the question, I think you're right. In a deal like that, nobody comes out with perfectly
clean hands, and the only way for you to start fresh is to get Bertha Dorset to back you up,
instead of trying to fight her."

He paused long enough to draw breath, but not to give her time for the expression of her gathering
resistance; and as he pressed on, expounding and elucidating his idea with the directness of
the man who has no doubts of his cause, she found the indignation gradually freezing on her
lip, found herself held fast in the grasp of his argument by the mere cold strength of its
presentation. There was no time now to wonder how he had heard of her obtaining the letters:
all her world was dark outside the monstrous glare of his scheme for using them. And it was
not, after the first moment, the horror of the idea that held her spell-bound, subdued to his
will; it was rather its subtle affinity to her own inmost cravings. He would marry her tomorrow
if she could regain Bertha Dorset's friendship; and to induce the open resumption of that friendship,
and the tacit retractation of all that had caused its withdrawal, she had only to put to the
lady the latent menace contained in the packet so miraculously delivered into her hands. Lily
saw in a flash the advantage of this course over that which poor Dorset had pressed upon her.
The other plan depended for its success on the infliction of an open injury, while this reduced
the transaction to a private understanding, of which no third person need have the remotest
hint. Put by Rosedale in terms of business-like give-and-take, this understanding took on the
harmless air of a mutual accommodation, like a transfer of property or a revision of boundary
lines. It certainly simplified life to view it as a perpetual adjustment, a play of party politics,
in which every concession had its recognized equivalent: Lily's tired mind was fascinated by
this escape from fluctuating ethical estimates into a region of concrete weights and measures.

Rosedale, as she listened, seemed to read in her silence not only a gradual acquiescence in
his plan, but a dangerously far-reaching perception of the chances it offered; for as she continued
to stand before him without speaking, he broke out, with a quick return upon himself: "You
see how simple it is, don't you? Well, don't be carried away by the idea that it's TOO simple.
It isn't exactly as if you'd started in with a clean bill of health. Now we're talking let's
call things by their right names, and clear the whole business up. You know well enough that
Bertha Dorset couldn't have touched you if there hadn't been--well--questions asked before--little
points of interrogation, eh? Bound to happen to a good-looking girl with stingy relatives,
I suppose; anyhow, they DID happen, and she found the ground prepared for her. Do you see where
I'm coming out? You don't want these little questions cropping up again.  It's one thing to
get Bertha Dorset into line--but what you want is to keep her there. You can frighten her fast
enough--but how are you going to keep her frightened?  By showing her that you're as powerful
as she is. All the letters in the world won't do that for you as you are now; but with a big
backing behind you, you'll keep her just where you want her to be. That's MY share in the business--that's
what I'm offering you. You can't put the thing through without me--don't run away with any
idea that you can. In six months you'd be back again among your old worries, or worse ones;
and here I am, ready to lift you out of 'em tomorrow if you say so. DO you say so, Miss Lily?"
he added, moving suddenly nearer.

The words, and the movement which accompanied them, combined to startle Lily out of the state
of tranced subservience into which she had insensibly slipped. Light comes in devious ways
to the groping consciousness, and it came to her now through the disgusted perception that
her would-be accomplice assumed, as a matter of course, the likelihood of her distrusting him
and perhaps trying to cheat him of his share of the spoils. This glimpse of his inner mind
seemed to present the whole transaction in a new aspect, and she saw that the essential baseness
of the act lay in its freedom from risk.

She drew back with a quick gesture of rejection, saying, in a voice that was a surprise to
her own ears: "You are mistaken--quite mistaken--both in the facts and in what you infer from
them."

Rosedale stared a moment, puzzled by her sudden dash in a direction so different from that
toward which she had appeared to be letting him guide her.

"Now what on earth does that mean? I thought we understood each other!" he exclaimed; and to
her murmur of "Ah, we do NOW," he retorted with a sudden burst of violence: "I suppose it's
because the letters are to HIM, then? Well, I'll be damned if I see what thanks you've got
from him!"

Chapter 8

The autumn days declined to winter. Once more the leisure world was in transition between country
and town, and Fifth Avenue, still deserted at the week-end, showed from Monday to Friday a
broadening stream of carriages between house-fronts gradually restored to consciousness.

The Horse Show, some two weeks earlier, had produced a passing semblance of reanimation, filling
the theatres and restaurants with a human display of the same costly and high-stepping kind
as circled daily about its ring. In Miss Bart's world the Horse Show, and the public it attracted,
had ostensibly come to be classed among the spectacles disdained of the elect; but, as the
feudal lord might sally forth to join in the dance on his village green, so society, unofficially
and incidentally, still condescended to look in upon the scene. Mrs. Gormer, among the rest,
was not above seizing such an occasion for the display of herself and her horses; and Lily
was given one or two opportunities of appearing at her friend's side in the most conspicuous
box the house afforded. But this lingering semblance of intimacy made her only the more conscious
of a change in the relation between Mattie and herself, of a dawning discrimination, a gradually
formed social standard, emerging from Mrs. Gormer's chaotic view of life. It was inevitable
that Lily herself should constitute the first sacrifice to this new ideal, and she knew that,
once the Gormers were established in town, the whole drift of fashionable life would facilitate
Mattie's detachment from her. She had, in short, failed to make herself indispensable; or rather,
her attempt to do so had been thwarted by an influence stronger than any she could exert. That
influence, in its last analysis, was simply the power of money: Bertha Dorset's social credit
was based on an impregnable bank-account.

Lily knew that Rosedale had overstated neither the difficulty of her own position nor the completeness
of the vindication he offered: once Bertha's match in material resources, her superior gifts
would make it easy for her to dominate her adversary. An understanding of what such domination
would mean, and of the disadvantages accruing from her rejection of it, was brought home to
Lily with increasing clearness during the early weeks of the winter. Hitherto, she had kept
up a semblance of movement outside the main flow of the social current; but with the return
to town, and the concentrating of scattered activities, the mere fact of not slipping back
naturally into her old habits of life marked her as being unmistakably excluded from them.
If one were not a part of the season's fixed routine, one swung unsphered in a void of social
non-existence. Lily, for all her dissatisfied dreaming, had never really conceived the possibility
of revolving about a different centre: it was easy enough to despise the world, but decidedly
difficult to find any other habitable region. Her sense of irony never quite deserted her,
and she could still note, with self-directed derision, the abnormal value suddenly acquired
by the most tiresome and insignificant details of her former life. Its very drudgeries had
a charm now that she was involuntarily released from them: card-leaving, note-writing, enforced
civilities to the dull and elderly, and the smiling endurance of tedious dinners--how pleasantly
such obligations would have filled the emptiness of her days! She did indeed leave cards in
plenty; she kept herself, with a smiling and valiant persistence, well in the eye of her world;
nor did she suffer any of those gross rebuffs which sometimes produce a wholesome reaction
of contempt in their victim. Society did not turn away from her, it simply drifted by, preoccupied
and inattentive, letting her feel, to the full measure of her humbled pride, how completely
she had been the creature of its favour.

She had rejected Rosedale's suggestion with a promptness of scorn almost surprising to herself:
she had not lost her capacity for high flashes of indignation. But she could not breathe long
on the heights; there had been nothing in her training to develop any continuity of moral strength:
what she craved, and really felt herself entitled to, was a situation in which the noblest
attitude should also be the easiest. Hitherto her intermittent impulses of resistance had sufficed
to maintain her self-respect.  If she slipped she recovered her footing, and it was only afterward
that she was aware of having recovered it each time on a slightly lower level. She had rejected
Rosedale's offer without conscious effort; her whole being had risen against it; and she did
not yet perceive that, by the mere act of listening to him, she had learned to live with ideas
which would once have been intolerable to her.

To Gerty Farish, keeping watch over her with a tenderer if less discerning eye than Mrs. Fisher's,
the results of the struggle were already distinctly visible. She did not, indeed, know what
hostages Lily had already given to expediency; but she saw her passionately and irretrievably
pledged to the ruinous policy of "keeping up." Gerty could smile now at her own early dream
of her friend's renovation through adversity: she understood clearly enough that Lily was not
of those to whom privation teaches the unimportance of what they have lost. But this very fact,
to Gerty, made her friend the more piteously in want of aid, the more exposed to the claims
of a tenderness she was so little conscious of needing.

Lily, since her return to town, had not often climbed Miss Farish's stairs. There was something
irritating to her in the mute interrogation of Gerty's sympathy: she felt the real difficulties
of her situation to be incommunicable to any one whose theory of values was so different from
her own, and the restrictions of Gerty's life, which had once had the charm of contrast, now
reminded her too painfully of the limits to which her own existence was shrinking. When at
length, one afternoon, she put into execution the belated resolve to visit her friend, this
sense of shrunken opportunities possessed her with unusual intensity.  The walk up Fifth Avenue,
unfolding before her, in the brilliance of the hard winter sunlight, an interminable procession
of fastidiously-equipped carriages--giving her, through the little squares of brougham-windows,
peeps of familiar profiles bent above visiting-lists, of hurried hands dispensing notes and
cards to attendant footmen--this glimpse of the ever-revolving wheels of the great social machine
made Lily more than ever conscious of the steepness and narrowness of Gerty's stairs, and of
the cramped blind alley of life to which they led.  Dull stairs destined to be mounted by dull
people: how many thousands of insignificant figures were going up and down such stairs all
over the world at that very moment--figures as shabby and uninteresting as that of the middle-aged
lady in limp black who descended Gerty's flight as Lily climbed to it!

"That was poor Miss Jane Silverton--she came to talk things over with me: she and her sister
want to do something to support themselves," Gerty explained, as Lily followed her into the
sitting-room.

"To support themselves? Are they so hard up?" Miss Bart asked with a touch of irritation: she
had not come to listen to the woes of other people.

"I'm afraid they have nothing left: Ned's debts have swallowed up everything. They had such
hopes, you know, when he broke away from Carry Fisher; they thought Bertha Dorset would be
such a good influence, because she doesn't care for cards, and--well, she talked quite beautifully
to poor Miss Jane about feeling as if Ned were her younger brother, and wanting to carry him
off on the yacht, so that he might have a chance to drop cards and racing, and take up his
literary work again."

Miss Farish paused with a sigh which reflected the perplexity of her departing visitor. "But
that isn't all; it isn't even the worst. It seems that Ned has quarrelled with the Dorsets;
or at least Bertha won't allow him to see her, and he is so unhappy about it that he has taken
to gambling again, and going about with all sorts of queer people. And cousin Grace Van Osburgh
accuses him of having had a very bad influence on Freddy, who left Harvard last spring, and
has been a great deal with Ned ever since. She sent for Miss Jane, and made a dreadful scene;
and Jack Stepney and Herbert Melson, who were there too, told Miss Jane that Freddy was threatening
to marry some dreadful woman to whom Ned had introduced him, and that they could do nothing
with him because now he's of age he has his own money. You can fancy how poor Miss Jane felt--she
came to me at once, and seemed to think that if I could get her something to do she could earn
enough to pay Ned's debts and send him away--I'm afraid she has no idea how long it would take
her to pay for one of his evenings at bridge. And he was horribly in debt when he came back
from the cruise--I can't see why he should have spent so much more money under Bertha's influence
than Carry's: can you?"

Lily met this query with an impatient gesture. "My dear Gerty, I always understand how people
can spend much more money--never how they can spend any less!"

She loosened her furs and settled herself in Gerty's easy-chair, while her friend busied herself
with the tea-cups.

"But what can they do--the Miss Silvertons? How do they mean to support themselves?" she asked,
conscious that the note of irritation still persisted in her voice. It was the very last topic
she had meant to discuss--it really did not interest her in the least--but she was seized by
a sudden perverse curiosity to know how the two colourless shrinking victims of young Silverton's
sentimental experiments meant to cope with the grim necessity which lurked so close to her
own threshold.

"I don't know--I am trying to find something for them. Miss Jane reads aloud very nicely--but
it's so hard to find any one who is willing to be read to. And Miss Annie paints a little----"

"Oh, I know--apple-blossoms on blotting-paper; just the kind of thing I shall be doing myself
before long!" exclaimed Lily, starting up with a vehemence of movement that threatened destruction
to Miss Farish's fragile tea-table.

Lily bent over to steady the cups; then she sank back into her seat. "I'd forgotten there was
no room to dash about in--how beautifully one does have to behave in a small flat! Oh, Gerty,
I wasn't meant to be good," she sighed out incoherently.

Gerty lifted an apprehensive look to her pale face, in which the eyes shone with a peculiar
sleepless lustre.

"You look horribly tired, Lily; take your tea, and let me give you this cushion to lean against."

Miss Bart accepted the cup of tea, but put back the cushion with an impatient hand.

"Don't give me that! I don't want to lean back--I shall go to sleep if I do."

"Well, why not, dear? I'll be as quiet as a mouse," Gerty urged affectionately.

"No--no; don't be quiet; talk to me--keep me awake! I don't sleep at night, and in the afternoon
a dreadful drowsiness creeps over me."

"You don't sleep at night? Since when?"

"I don't know--I can't remember." She rose and put the empty cup on the tea-tray. "Another,
and stronger, please; if I don't keep awake now I shall see horrors tonight--perfect horrors!"

"But they'll be worse if you drink too much tea."

"No, no--give it to me; and don't preach, please," Lily returned imperiously. Her voice had
a dangerous edge, and Gerty noticed that her hand shook as she held it out to receive the second
cup.

"But you look so tired: I'm sure you must be ill----"

Miss Bart set down her cup with a start. "Do I look ill? Does my face show it?" She rose and
walked quickly toward the little mirror above the writing-table. "What a horrid looking-glass--it's
all blotched and discoloured. Any one would look ghastly in it!" She turned back, fixing her
plaintive eyes on Gerty. "You stupid dear, why do you say such odious things to me? It's enough
to make one ill to be told one looks so! And looking ill means looking ugly." She caught Gerty's
wrists, and drew her close to the window. "After all, I'd rather know the truth.  Look me straight
in the face, Gerty, and tell me: am I perfectly frightful?"

"You're perfectly beautiful now, Lily: your eyes are shining, and your cheeks have grown so
pink all of a sudden----"

"Ah, they WERE pale, then--ghastly pale, when I came in? Why don't you tell me frankly that
I'm a wreck? My eyes are bright now because I'm so nervous--but in the mornings they look like
lead. And I can see the lines coming in my face--the lines of worry and disappointment and
failure! Every sleepless night leaves a new one--and how can I sleep, when I have such dreadful
things to think about?"

"Dreadful things--what things?" asked Gerty, gently detaching her wrists from her friend's
feverish fingers.

"What things? Well, poverty, for one--and I don't know any that's more dreadful." Lily turned
away and sank with sudden weariness into the easy-chair near the tea-table. "You asked me just
now if I could understand why Ned Silverton spent so much money. Of course I understand--he
spends it on living with the rich. You think we live ON the rich, rather than with them: and
so we do, in a sense--but it's a privilege we have to pay for! We eat their dinners, and drink
their wine, and smoke their cigarettes, and use their carriages and their opera-boxes and their
private cars--yes, but there's a tax to pay on every one of those luxuries. The man pays it
by big tips to the servants, by playing cards beyond his means, by flowers and presents--and--and--lots
of other things that cost; the girl pays it by tips and cards too--oh, yes, I've had to take
up bridge again--and by going to the best dress-makers, and having just the right dress for
every occasion, and always keeping herself fresh and exquisite and amusing!"

She leaned back for a moment, closing her eyes, and as she sat there, her pale lips slightly
parted, and the lids dropped above her fagged brilliant gaze, Gerty had a startled perception
of the change in her face--of the way in which an ashen daylight seemed suddenly to extinguish
its artificial brightness. She looked up, and the vision vanished.

"It doesn't sound very amusing, does it? And it isn't--I'm sick to death of it! And yet the
thought of giving it all up nearly kills me--it's what keeps me awake at night, and makes me
so crazy for your strong tea. For I can't go on in this way much longer, you know--I'm nearly
at the end of my tether. And then what can I do--how on earth am I to keep myself alive? I
see myself reduced to the fate of that poor Silverton woman--slinking about to employment agencies,
and trying to sell painted blotting-pads to Women's Exchanges! And there are thousands and
thousands of women trying to do the same thing already, and not one of the number who has less
idea how to earn a dollar than I have!"

She rose again with a hurried glance at the clock. "It's late, and I must be off--I have an
appointment with Carry Fisher. Don't look so worried, you dear thing--don't think too much
about the nonsense I've been talking." She was before the mirror again, adjusting her hair
with a light hand, drawing down her veil, and giving a dexterous touch to her furs. "Of course,
you know, it hasn't come to the employment agencies and the painted blotting-pads yet; but
I'm rather hard-up just for the moment, and if I could find something to do--notes to write
and visiting-lists to make up, or that kind of thing--it would tide me over till the legacy
is paid. And Carry has promised to find somebody who wants a kind of social secretary--you
know she makes a specialty of the helpless rich."

Miss Bart had not revealed to Gerty the full extent of her anxiety. She was in fact in urgent
and immediate need of money: money to meet the vulgar weekly claims which could neither be
deferred nor evaded. To give up her apartment, and shrink to the obscurity of a boarding-house,
or the provisional hospitality of a bed in Gerty Farish's sitting-room, was an expedient which
could only postpone the problem confronting her; and it seemed wiser as well as more agreeable
to remain where she was and find some means of earning her living. The possibility of having
to do this was one which she had never before seriously considered, and the discovery that,
as a bread-winner, she was likely to prove as helpless and ineffectual as poor Miss Silverton,
was a severe shock to her self-confidence.

Having been accustomed to take herself at the popular valuation, as a person of energy and
resource, naturally fitted to dominate any situation in which she found herself, she vaguely
imagined that such gifts would be of value to seekers after social guidance; but there was
unfortunately no specific head under which the art of saying and doing the right thing could
be offered in the market, and even Mrs. Fisher's resourcefulness failed before the difficulty
of discovering a workable vein in the vague wealth of Lily's graces. Mrs. Fisher was full of
indirect expedients for enabling her friends to earn a living, and could conscientiously assert
that she had put several opportunities of this kind before Lily; but more legitimate methods
of bread-winning were as much out of her line as they were beyond the capacity of the sufferers
she was generally called upon to assist. Lily's failure to profit by the chances already afforded
her might, moreover, have justified the abandonment of farther effort on her behalf; but Mrs.
Fisher's inexhaustible good-nature made her an adept at creating artificial demands in response
to an actual supply. In the pursuance of this end she at once started on a voyage of discovery
in Miss Bart's behalf; and as the result of her explorations she now summoned the latter with
the announcement that she had "found something."

Left to herself, Gerty mused distressfully upon her friend's plight, and her own inability
to relieve it. It was clear to her that Lily, for the present, had no wish for the kind of
help she could give. Miss Farish could see no hope for her friend but in a life completely
reorganized and detached from its old associations; whereas all Lily's energies were centred
in the determined effort to hold fast to those associations, to keep herself visibly identified
with them, as long as the illusion could be maintained. Pitiable as such an attitude seemed
to Gerty, she could not judge it as harshly as Selden, for instance, might have done. She had
not forgotten the night of emotion when she and Lily had lain in each other's arms, and she
had seemed to feel her very heart's blood passing into her friend. The sacrifice she had made
had seemed unavailing enough; no trace remained in Lily of the subduing influences of that
hour; but Gerty's tenderness, disciplined by long years of contact with obscure and inarticulate
suffering, could wait on its object with a silent forbearance which took no account of time.
She could not, however, deny herself the solace of taking anxious counsel with Lawrence Selden,
with whom, since his return from Europe, she had renewed her old relation of cousinly confidence.

Selden himself had never been aware of any change in their relation. He found Gerty as he had
left her, simple, undemanding and devoted, but with a quickened intelligence of the heart which
he recognized without seeking to explain it. To Gerty herself it would once have seemed impossible
that she should ever again talk freely with him of Lily Bart; but what had passed in the secrecy
of her own breast seemed to resolve itself, when the mist of the struggle cleared, into a breaking
down of the bounds of self, a deflecting of the wasted personal emotion into the general current
of human understanding.

It was not till some two weeks after her visit from Lily that Gerty had the opportunity of
communicating her fears to Selden.  The latter, having presented himself on a Sunday afternoon,
had lingered on through the dowdy animation of his cousin's tea-hour, conscious of something
in her voice and eye which solicited a word apart; and as soon as the last visitor was gone
Gerty opened her case by asking how lately he had seen Miss Bart.

Selden's perceptible pause gave her time for a slight stir of surprise.

"I haven't seen her at all--I've perpetually missed seeing her since she came back."

This unexpected admission made Gerty pause too; and she was still hesitating on the brink of
her subject when he relieved her by adding: "I've wanted to see her--but she seems to have
been absorbed by the Gormer set since her return from Europe."

"That's all the more reason: she's been very unhappy."

"Unhappy at being with the Gormers?"

"Oh, I don't defend her intimacy with the Gormers; but that too is at an end now, I think.
You know people have been very unkind since Bertha Dorset quarrelled with her."

"Ah----" Selden exclaimed, rising abruptly to walk to the window, where he remained with his
eyes on the darkening street while his cousin continued to explain: "Judy Trenor and her own
family have deserted her too--and all because Bertha Dorset has said such horrible things.
And she is very poor--you know Mrs. Peniston cut her off with a small legacy, after giving
her to understand that she was to have everything."

"Yes--I know," Selden assented curtly, turning back into the room, but only to stir about with
restless steps in the circumscribed space between door and window. "Yes--she's been abominably
treated; but it's unfortunately the precise thing that a man who wants to show his sympathy
can't say to her."

His words caused Gerty a slight chill of disappointment. "There would be other ways of showing
your sympathy," she suggested.

Selden, with a slight laugh, sat down beside her on the little sofa which projected from the
hearth. "What are you thinking of, you incorrigible missionary?" he asked.

Gerty's colour rose, and her blush was for a moment her only answer. Then she made it more
explicit by saying: "I am thinking of the fact that you and she used to be great friends--that
she used to care immensely for what you thought of her--and that, if she takes your staying
away as a sign of what you think now, I can imagine its adding a great deal to her unhappiness."

"My dear child, don't add to it still more--at least to your conception of it--by attributing
to her all sorts of susceptibilities of your own." Selden, for his life, could not keep a note
of dryness out of his voice; but he met Gerty's look of perplexity by saying more mildly: "But,
though you immensely exaggerate the importance of anything I could do for Miss Bart, you can't
exaggerate my readiness to do it--if you ask me to." He laid his hand for a moment on hers,
and there passed between them, on the current of the rare contact, one of those exchanges of
meaning which fill the hidden reservoirs of affection.  Gerty had the feeling that he measured
the cost of her request as plainly as she read the significance of his reply; and the sense
of all that was suddenly clear between them made her next words easier to find.

"I do ask you, then; I ask you because she once told me that you had been a help to her, and
because she needs help now as she has never needed it before. You know how dependent she has
always been on ease and luxury--how she has hated what was shabby and ugly and uncomfortable.
She can't help it--she was brought up with those ideas, and has never been able to find her
way out of them. But now all the things she cared for have been taken from her, and the people
who taught her to care for them have abandoned her too; and it seems to me that if some one
could reach out a hand and show her the other side--show her how much is left in life and in
herself----" Gerty broke off, abashed at the sound of her own eloquence, and impeded by the
difficulty of giving precise expression to her vague yearning for her friend's retrieval. "I
can't help her myself: she's passed out of my reach," she continued. "I think she's afraid
of being a burden to me.  When she was last here, two weeks ago, she seemed dreadfully worried
about her future: she said Carry Fisher was trying to find something for her to do. A few days
later she wrote me that she had taken a position as private secretary, and that I was not to
be anxious, for everything was all right, and she would come in and tell me about it when she
had time; but she has never come, and I don't like to go to her, because I am afraid of forcing
myself on her when I'm not wanted.  Once, when we were children, and I had rushed up after
a long separation, and thrown my arms about her, she said: 'Please don't kiss me unless I ask
you to, Gerty'--and she DID ask me, a minute later; but since then I've always waited to be asked."

Selden had listened in silence, with the concentrated look which his thin dark face could assume
when he wished to guard it against any involuntary change of expression. When his cousin ended,
he said with a slight smile: "Since you've learned the wisdom of waiting, I don't see why you
urge me to rush in--" but the troubled appeal of her eyes made him add, as he rose to take
leave: "Still, I'll do what you wish, and not hold you responsible for my failure."

Selden's avoidance of Miss Bart had not been as unintentional as he had allowed his cousin
to think. At first, indeed, while the memory of their last hour at Monte Carlo still held the
full heat of his indignation, he had anxiously watched for her return; but she had disappointed
him by lingering in England, and when she finally reappeared it happened that business had
called him to the West, whence he came back only to learn that she was starting for Alaska
with the Gormers. The revelation of this suddenly-established intimacy effectually chilled
his desire to see her. If, at a moment when her whole life seemed to be breaking up, she could
cheerfully commit its reconstruction to the Gormers, there was no reason why such accidents
should ever strike her as irreparable.  Every step she took seemed in fact to carry her farther
from the region where, once or twice, he and she had met for an illumined moment; and the recognition
of this fact, when its first pang had been surmounted, produced in him a sense of negative
relief. It was much simpler for him to judge Miss Bart by her habitual conduct than by the
rare deviations from it which had thrown her so disturbingly in his way; and every act of hers
which made the recurrence of such deviations more unlikely, confirmed the sense of relief with
which he returned to the conventional view of her.

But Gerty Farish's words had sufficed to make him see how little this view was really his,
and how impossible it was for him to live quietly with the thought of Lily Bart. To hear that
she was in need of help--even such vague help as he could offer--was to be at once repossessed
by that thought; and by the time he reached the street he had sufficiently convinced himself
of the urgency of his cousin's appeal to turn his steps directly toward Lily's hotel.

There his zeal met a check in the unforeseen news that Miss Bart had moved away; but, on his
pressing his enquiries, the clerk remembered that she had left an address, for which he presently
began to search through his books.

It was certainly strange that she should have taken this step without letting Gerty Farish
know of her decision; and Selden waited with a vague sense of uneasiness while the address
was sought for. The process lasted long enough for uneasiness to turn to apprehension; but
when at length a slip of paper was handed him, and he read on it: "Care of Mrs. Norma Hatch,
Emporium Hotel," his apprehension passed into an incredulous stare, and this into the gesture
of disgust with which he tore the paper in two, and turned to walk quickly homeward.

Chapter 9

When Lily woke on the morning after her translation to the Emporium Hotel, her first feeling
was one of purely physical satisfaction. The force of contrast gave an added keenness to the
luxury of lying once more in a soft-pillowed bed, and looking across a spacious sunlit room
at a breakfast-table set invitingly near the fire. Analysis and introspection might come later;
but for the moment she was not even troubled by the excesses of the upholstery or the restless
convolutions of the furniture. The sense of being once more lapped and folded in ease, as in
some dense mild medium impenetrable to discomfort, effectually stilled the faintest note of
criticism.

When, the afternoon before, she had presented herself to the lady to whom Carry Fisher had
directed her, she had been conscious of entering a new world. Carry's vague presentment of
Mrs. Norma Hatch (whose reversion to her Christian name was explained as the result of her
latest divorce), left her under the implication of coming "from the West," with the not unusual
extenuation of having brought a great deal of money with her. She was, in short, rich, helpless,
unplaced: the very subject for Lily's hand. Mrs. Fisher had not specified the line her friend
was to take; she owned herself unacquainted with Mrs. Hatch, whom she "knew about" through
Melville Stancy, a lawyer in his leisure moments, and the Falstaff of a certain section of
festive dub life.  Socially, Mr. Stancy might have been said to form a connecting link between
the Gormer world and the more dimly-lit region on which Miss Bart now found herself entering.
It was, however, only figuratively that the illumination of Mrs. Hatch's world could be described
as dim: in actual fact, Lily found her seated in a blaze of electric light, impartially projected
from various ornamental excrescences on a vast concavity of pink damask and gilding, from which
she rose like Venus from her shell. The analogy was justified by the appearance of the lady,
whose large-eyed prettiness had the fixity of something impaled and shown under glass. This
did not preclude the immediate discovery that she was some years younger than her visitor,
and that under her showiness, her ease, the aggression of her dress and voice, there persisted
that ineradicable innocence which, in ladies of her nationality, so curiously coexists with
startling extremes of experience.

The environment in which Lily found herself was as strange to her as its inhabitants. She was
unacquainted with the world of the fashionable New York hotel--a world over-heated, over-upholstered,
and over-fitted with mechanical appliances for the gratification of fantastic requirements,
while the comforts of a civilized life were as unattainable as in a desert. Through this atmosphere
of torrid splendour moved wan beings as richly upholstered as the furniture, beings without
definite pursuits or permanent relations, who drifted on a languid tide of curiosity from restaurant
to concert-hall, from palm-garden to music-room, from "art exhibit" to dress-maker's opening.
High-stepping horses or elaborately equipped motors waited to carry these ladies into vague
metropolitan distances, whence they returned, still more wan from the weight of their sables,
to be sucked back into the stifling inertia of the hotel routine. Somewhere behind them, in
the background of their lives, there was doubtless a real past, peopled by real human activities:
they themselves were probably the product of strong ambitions, persistent energies, diversified
contacts with the wholesome roughness of life; yet they had no more real existence than the
poet's shades in limbo.

Lily had not been long in this pallid world without discovering that Mrs. Hatch was its most
substantial figure. That lady, though still floating in the void, showed faint symptoms of
developing an outline; and in this endeavour she was actively seconded by Mr. Melville Stancy.
It was Mr. Stancy, a man of large resounding presence, suggestive of convivial occasions and
of a chivalry finding expression in "first-night" boxes and thousand dollar bonbonnieres, who
had transplanted Mrs. Hatch from the scene of her first development to the higher stage of
hotel life in the metropolis. It was he who had selected the horses with which she had taken
the blue ribbon at the Show, had introduced her to the photographer whose portraits of her
formed the recurring ornament of "Sunday Supplements," and had got together the group which
constituted her social world. It was a small group still, with heterogeneous figures suspended
in large unpeopled spaces; but Lily did not take long to learn that its regulation was no longer
in Mr. Stancy's hands. As often happens, the pupil had outstripped the teacher, and Mrs. Hatch
was already aware of heights of elegance as well as depths of luxury beyond the world of the
Emporium.  This discovery at once produced in her a craving for higher guidance, for the adroit
feminine hand which should give the right turn to her correspondence, the right "look" to her
hats, the right succession to the items of her MENUS. It was, in short, as the regulator of
a germinating social life that Miss Bart's guidance was required; her ostensible duties as
secretary being restricted by the fact that Mrs. Hatch, as yet, knew hardly any one to write to.

The daily details of Mrs. Hatch's existence were as strange to Lily as its general tenor. The
lady's habits were marked by an Oriental indolence and disorder peculiarly trying to her companion.
Mrs. Hatch and her friends seemed to float together outside the bounds of time and space. No
definite hours were kept; no fixed obligations existed: night and day flowed into one another
in a blur of confused and retarded engagements, so that one had the impression of lunching
at the tea-hour, while dinner was often merged in the noisy after-theatre supper which prolonged
Mrs. Hatch's vigil till daylight.

Through this jumble of futile activities came and went a strange throng of hangers-on--manicures,
beauty-doctors, hair-dressers, teachers of bridge, of French, of "physical development": figures
sometimes indistinguishable, by their appearance, or by Mrs. Hatch's relation to them, from
the visitors constituting her recognized society. But strangest of all to Lily was the encounter,
in this latter group, of several of her acquaintances.  She had supposed, and not without relief,
that she was passing, for the moment, completely out of her own circle; but she found that
Mr. Stancy, one side of whose sprawling existence overlapped the edge of Mrs. Fisher's world,
had drawn several of its brightest ornaments into the circle of the Emporium. To find Ned Silverton
among the habitual frequenters of Mrs. Hatch's drawing-room was one of Lily's first astonishments;
but she soon discovered that he was not Mr. Stancy's most important recruit. It was on little
Freddy Van Osburgh, the small slim heir of the Van Osburgh millions, that the attention of
Mrs. Hatch's group was centred. Freddy, barely out of college, had risen above the horizon
since Lily's eclipse, and she now saw with surprise what an effulgence he shed on the outer
twilight of Mrs. Hatch's existence. This, then, was one of the things that young men "went
in" for when released from the official social routine; this was the kind of "previous engagement"
that so frequently caused them to disappoint the hopes of anxious hostesses. Lily had an odd
sense of being behind the social tapestry, on the side where the threads were knotted and the
loose ends hung. For a moment she found a certain amusement in the show, and in her own share
of it: the situation had an ease and unconventionality distinctly refreshing after her experience
of the irony of conventions. But these flashes of amusement were but brief reactions from the
long disgust of her days. Compared with the vast gilded void of Mrs. Hatch's existence, the
life of Lily's former friends seemed packed with ordered activities. Even the most irresponsible
pretty woman of her acquaintance had her inherited obligations, her conventional benevolences,
her share in the working of the great civic machine; and all hung together in the solidarity
of these traditional functions. The performance of specific duties would have simplified Miss
Bart's position; but the vague attendance on Mrs. Hatch was not without its perplexities.

It was not her employer who created these perplexities. Mrs. Hatch showed from the first an
almost touching desire for Lily's approval.  Far from asserting the superiority of wealth,
her beautiful eyes seemed to urge the plea of inexperience: she wanted to do what was "nice,"
to be taught how to be "lovely." The difficulty was to find any point of contact between her
ideals and Lily's.

Mrs. Hatch swam in a haze of indeterminate enthusiasms, of aspirations culled from the stage,
the newspapers, the fashion journals, and a gaudy world of sport still more completely beyond
her companion's ken.  To separate from these confused conceptions those most likely to advance
the lady on her way, was Lily's obvious duty; but its performance was hampered by rapidly-growing
doubts. Lily was in fact becoming more and more aware of a certain ambiguity in her situation.
It was not that she had, in the conventional sense, any doubt of Mrs. Hatch's irreproachableness.
The lady's offences were always against taste rather than conduct; her divorce record seemed
due to geographical rather than ethical conditions; and her worst laxities were likely to proceed
from a wandering and extravagant good-nature.  But if Lily did not mind her detaining her manicure
for luncheon, or offering the "Beauty-Doctor" a seat in Freddy Van Osburgh's box at the play,
she was not equally at ease in regard to some less apparent lapses from convention. Ned Silverton's
relation to Stancy seemed, for instance, closer and less clear than any natural affinities
would warrant; and both appeared united in the effort to cultivate Freddy Van Osburgh's growing
taste for Mrs. Hatch. There was as yet nothing definable in the situation, which might well
resolve itself into a huge joke on the part of the other two; but Lily had a vague sense that
the subject of their experiment was too young, too rich and too credulous.  Her embarrassment
was increased by the fact that Freddy seemed to regard her as cooperating with himself in the
social development of Mrs. Hatch: a view that suggested, on his part, a permanent interest
in the lady's future. There were moments when Lily found an ironic amusement in this aspect
of the case. The thought of launching such a missile as Mrs. Hatch at the perfidious bosom
of society was not without its charm: Miss Bart had even beguiled her leisure with visions
of the fair Norma introduced for the first time to a family banquet at the Van Osburghs'. But
the thought of being personally connected with the transaction was less agreeable; and her
momentary flashes of amusement were followed by increasing periods of doubt.

The sense of these doubts was uppermost when, late one afternoon, she was surprised by a visit
from Lawrence Selden. He found her alone in the wilderness of pink damask, for in Mrs. Hatch's
world the tea-hour was not dedicated to social rites, and the lady was in the hands of her
masseuse.

