As to the other part of the plan, I secured Agassiz, Lowell, Curtis, Bayard Taylor, Goldwin
Smith, Theodore Dwight, George W. Greene, John Stanton Gould, and at a later period Froude,
Freeman, and others, as non-resident professors and lecturers.  Of the final working of this
system I shall speak later.

The question of buildings also arose; but, alas!  I could not reproduce my air-castles.  For
our charter required us to have the university in operation in October, 1868, and there was
no time for careful architectural preparation.  Moreover, the means failed us.  All that we
could then do was to accept a fairly good plan for our main structures; to make them simple,
substantial, and dignified; to build them of stone from our own quarries; and so to dispose
them that future architects might so combine other buildings with them as to form an impressive
quadrangle on the upper part of the university property.  To this plan Mr. Cornell gave his
hearty assent.  It was then arranged, with his full sanction, that the university buildings
should ultimately consist of two great groups: the first or upper group to be a quadrangle
of stone, and the second or lower group to be made up of buildings of brick more freely disposed,
according to our future needs and means.  Although this plan has unfortunately been departed
from in some minor respects, it has in general turned out well.

Having called a number of professors and seen foundations laid for ``Morrill Hall,'' I sailed
in April of 1868 for Europe, in order to study technical institutions, to purchase needed equipment,
and to secure certain professors such as could not then be found in our own country.  Thus
far my knowledge of higher education in Europe had been confined almost entirely to the universities;
but now I went carefully through various technical institutions, among them the English Agricultural
College at Cirencester, the Agricultural Experiment Station at Rothamstead, the French Agricultural
College at Grignon, the Conservatoire des Arts et M<e'>tiers at Paris, the Veterinary School
at Alfort, the German Agricultural College at Hohenheim, the Technical School and Veterinary
College at Berlin, and others.  As to equipment, wherever I found valuable material I bought
it.  Thus were brought together for our library a very large collection of books in all the
principal departments; physical and chemical apparatus from London, Paris, Heidelberg, and
Berlin; chemicals from Berlin and Erfurt; the only duplicate of the royal collection of cereals
and grasses and the great collection of British patent-office publications from the British
imperial authorities; the Rau models of plows from Hohenheim; the Brendel plant models from
Breslau; the models of machine movements from London, Darmstadt, and Berlin; the plastic models
of Auzoux from Paris; and other apparatus and instruments from all parts of Europe, with diagrams
and drawings from every institution where I could find them.  During three months, from funds
furnished by the university, by Mr. Cornell personally, and, I may be allowed to add, from
my own personal resources, I expended for these purposes over sixty thousand dollars, a sum
which in those days represented much more than in these. 

Though the Dr Broken, Whereupon an Armageddon is Broken XXXVI.

The Himself in the Machine XXXVII.
Some Phenomena Peculiar to Spring XXXIX. An Unusual Plan of Activity
Is Matured XL.

The Departure
of Uncle Peter-- And Some German Kabbalism XXXVIII.

  It seemed to many a comical juxtaposition, and various witticisms were
made at my expense over the statement that I had ``brought back an Oxford professor and a Scotch
horse-doctor.''  But never were selections more fortunate.  Goldwin Smith, by his high character,
his broad and deep scholarship, his devotion not only to his professorship but to the general
university work, his self-denial in behalf of the university and its students, rendered priceless
services.  He bore all privations cheerfully and braved all discouragements manfully.  Never
were there better historical lectures than his.  They inspired us all, and the impulse then
given is still felt.  So, too, Dr. Law, in his field, was invaluable, and this was soon felt
throughout the State.  Of him I shall speak later.

CHAPTER XX

THE FIRST YEARS OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY--1868-1870

On the 7th of October, 1868, came the formal opening of the university.  The struggle for its
charter had attracted much attention in all parts of the State, and a large body of spectators,
with about four hundred students, assembled at the Cornell Library Hall in Ithaca.  Though
the charter had required us to begin in October, there had seemed for some time very little
chance of it.  The direct roads to the university site were as yet impracticable, for the Cascadilla
ravine and the smaller one north of it were still unbridged.  The grounds were unkempt, with
heaps of earth and piles of material in all directions.  The great quantities of furniture,
apparatus, and books which I had sent from Europe had been deposited wherever storage could
be found.  Typical was the case of the large Holtz electrical machine from Germany.  It was
in those days a novelty, and many were anxious to see it; but it could not be found, and it
was only discovered several weeks later, when the last pots and pans were pulled out of the
kitchen store-room in the cellar of the great stone barrack known as Cascadilla House.  All
sorts of greatly needed material had been delayed in steamships and on railways, or was stuck
fast in custom-houses and warehouses from Berlin and Paris to Ithaca.  Our friends had toiled
heroically during our absence, but the little town--then much less energetic than now--had
been unable to furnish the work required in so short a time.  The heating apparatus and even
the doors for the students' rooms were not in place until weeks after winter weather had set
in.  To complicate matters still more, students began to come at a period much earlier and
in numbers far greater than we had expected; and the first result of this was that, in getting
ready for the opening, Mr. Cornell and myself were worn out.  For two or three days before
my inauguration both of us were in the hands of physicians and in bed, and on the morning of
the day appointed we were taken in carriages to the hall where the ceremony was to take place.
To Mr. Cornell's brief speech I have alluded elsewhere; my own presented my ideas more at length. Plans
for the East XIII.

Three Culture, Private and Practical X. The
Price of four Averting a XI.

How Uncle Peter Bine have Once
Cut Unaffixed XII.

Up Skiplap Canon IX.

The Homecoming to the Rising
Sun XIV

.  The second division
was that of ``Formative Ideas''; and under these--First, equality between different courses
of study.  In this I especially developed ideas which had occurred to me as far back as my
observations after graduation at Yale, where the classical students belonging to the ``college
proper'' were given a sort of supremacy, and scientific students relegated to a separate institution
at considerable distance, and therefore deprived of much general, and even special, culture
which would have greatly benefited them.  Indeed, they seemed not considered as having any
souls to be saved, since no provision was made for them at the college chapel.  Second, increased
development of scientific studies.  The third main division was that of ``Governmental Ideas'';
and under these-- First, ``the regular and frequent infusion of new life into the governing
board.''  Here a system at that time entirely new in the United States was proposed.  Instead
of the usual life tenure of trustees, their term was made five years and they were to be chosen
by ballot.  Secondly, it was required that as soon as the graduates of the university numbered
fifty they should select one trustee each year, thus giving the alumni one third of the whole
number elected.  Third, there was to be a system of self-government administered by the students
themselves.  As to this third point, I must frankly confess that my ideas were vague, unformed,
and finally changed by the logic of events.  As the fourth and final main division, I presented
``Permeating Ideas''; and of these--First, the development of the individual man in all his
nature, in all his powers, as a being intellectual, moral, and religious.  Secondly, bringing
the powers of the man thus developed to bear usefully upon society.

In conclusion, I alluded to two groups of ``Eliminated Ideas,'' the first of these being the
``Ideas of the Pedants,'' and the second the ``Ideas of the Philistines.''  As to the former,
I took pains to guard the institution from those who, in the higher education, substitute dates
for history, gerund-grinding for literature, and formulas for science; as to the latter, I
sought to guard it from the men to whom ``Gain is God, and Gunnybags his Prophet.''

At the close, referring to Mr. Cornell, who had been too weak to stand while delivering his
speech, and who was at that moment sitting near me, I alluded to his noble plans and to the
opposition, misrepresentation, and obloquy he had met thus far, and in doing so turned toward
him.  The sight of him, as he thus sat, looking so weak, so weary, so broken, for a few moments
utterly incapacitated me.  I was myself, at the time, in but little better condition than he;
and as there rushed into my mind memories of the previous ten days at his house, when I had
heard him groaning in pain through almost every night, it flashed upon me how utterly hopeless
was the university without his support.  My voice faltered; I could for a moment say no- thing;
then came a revulsion.  I asked myself, ``What will this great audience think of us?''  How
will our enemies, some of whom I see scattered about the audience, exult over this faltering
at the outset!  A feeling of shame came over me; but just at that moment I saw two or three
strong men from different parts of the State, among them my old friend Mr. Sedgwick of Syracuse,
in the audience, and Mr. Sage and Mr. McGraw among the trustees, evidently affected by my allusion
to the obloquy and injustice which Mr. Cornell had met thus far.  This roused me.  But I could
no longer read; I laid my manuscript aside and gave the ending in words which occurred to me
as I stood then and there.  They were faltering and inadequate; but I felt that the vast majority
in that audience, representing all parts of our commonwealth, were with us, and I asked nothing
more.

In the afternoon came exercises at the university grounds.  The chime of nine bells which Miss
Jenny McGraw had presented to us had been temporarily hung in a wooden tower placed very near
the spot where now stands the porch of the library; and, before the bells were rung for the
first time, a presentation address was delivered by Mr. Francis Miles Finch, since justice
of the Court of Appeals of the State and dean of the University Law School; and this was followed
by addresses from the superintendent of public instruction, and from our non- resident professors
Agassiz and George William Curtis.

