The demonstration flights, however, showed what could, rather than what should, be done, and
what we look for to-day is the inception of practical undertakings, however small, in the various
portions of the Empire. The most important of these is the service contemplated between Egypt
and India; another instance is afforded by the West Indies, which suffer from the lack of inter-island
communications, both for mails and passengers, and this could be partially rectified by an
air service employing seaplanes or amphibians for the Leeward and Windward Islands and the
Bahamas, and between the Bahamas and the American Continent, where an American company is actually
conducting a service. Another project, given up owing to recent disturbances, was one for a
flying-boat service on the Nile. Services are also being considered from Malta to Italy, Geraldton
to Derby in Western Australia, Sydney to Adelaide and Brisbane, and Melbourne to Hobart in
Tasmania. Canadian activity takes the form of work carried out by Government-owned civil machines
in connection with forest patrol, photographic survey, exploration, anti-smuggling patrols,
etc. It would be a great advantage if railway and steamship companies seriously considered
the value of supplementing their services by air.

With regard to Government undertakings on the Imperial air routes, Malta is being equipped
with an aerodrome, and a line of wireless stations has been established between Egypt and India,
but the organization of this route has been delayed owing to the recent disturbances in the
Middle East, and the financial outlay involved in ground organization. As I have said, the
air route on which we should first concentrate, over and above the Continental services, is
that between Egypt and India. Both strategically and commercially it is the most important
in the Imperial system; it is a step towards Australia; it offers possibilities of the greatest
volume of traffic; it should be much simpler to control than many international routes, which
inevitably have many complications; weather conditions are not unfavourable; and the time taken
for the journey by sea would be reduced by about one-half. If the shortcomings in point of
distance of the continental routes in reaping the full advantages of travel by air, and the
importance of the best possible communications for the Empire, are recognized, it is essential
that a practical form of assistance should be given in the near future to the conduct of weekly
or even bi-weekly services each way between Cairo and Karachi. Although it will not be a commercial
proposition for some time, the Egypt-Karachi route, shortening as it will the delivery of mails
between England and India by two-thirds, and England and Australia by one-third, offers greater
results than the various other schemes at present contemplated. There are, however, certain
considerations which will have to be weighed before the immense amount of work necessary to
its initiation as a commercial air route is begun. The French, for instance, hope to push a
trunk air route to India via Constantinople, and this line has the advantage of avoiding a
long sea and desert crossing. On the other hand, it will be a very difficult matter to negotiate
the mountains of Anatolia.

