All the great firms were represented, commending the abnormal variety of domestic industries.
It was, indeed, a matter of difficulty to decide which of them was paramount. Tiffany's costly
exhibits in jewels, especially diamonds, housed in a beautiful pavilion, attracted the visitor's
eyes.

Opposite this structure, Germany had a stately building. Gobelin tapestries and handsome furniture
adorned its interior. The elegant rooms were modeled after the reception salon of the Imperial
Palace in Berlin, and that of King Louis of Bavaria. All the various products of industrial
pursuits--inclosed in this pavilion--manifested the intelligence and dexterity of the German
nation.

Austria had a rich display, principally in jewelry and ornamental decorations, in an adjoining
edifice. A splendid collection, including everything in the line of manufactures, was shown
in the English Pavilion, which rose south of the German exhibits. Facing the former, France
occupied a structure whose walls were adorned with costly tapestries, and whose ceramic, furniture,
and household decorations were worthy of the highest admiration. Next to the Belgian section
a sumptuous pavilion housed an enormous outlay of diverse Russian manufactures.

At the southern end of Columbia Avenue a magnificent building formed the gateway to a rich
collection of Italian art ware and industries. The handsome Spanish Pavilion was succeeded
by typically Persian exhibits consisting prominently of carpets, curtains, silk needlework,
and tapestries. Mexico, the land of manana and poco tiempo was represented by costly decorations
and art feather-work. The facade of the Siamese structure--close by--covered with gold leaf,
was imposing and attractive. Displays of manufactured goods had been made by scores of other
countries, all of which to enumerate would be an impossibility.

As we reached the northwestern portion of the gigantic building, we were delighted with the
sight of the Japanese Pavilion, one of the most valuable structures. Upon its construction
the Japanese government had expended a great amount of money. The superb exhibits in works
of art, bric-a-brac, and other exquisite manufactures brought to view by this nation, evinced
an eminent talent and great ingenuity.

The Mikado--to whom is due the rapid progress civilization has made in his country within the
last ten years--was the first of the foreign monarchs to demonstrate an active interest in
the exposition.

The melodious chimes resounding from the belfry of a clock-tower in the center of Columbia
Avenue, caused us to take notice of the rapidly elapsing time. To our surprise, the immense
time-piece indicated an advanced hour in the afternoon.

We could not abandon the superb temple, so amply filled with the products of human industry,
embracing that which was regally magnificent, as well as that most applicable to our daily
needs--without an enthusiastic thrill. If man is weak in many things, he is also grand in much;
and every thoughtful observer must have paused upon this threshold to pay a tribute to that
untiring energy which must make the world better for its existence and progress.

We entered the next great structure to the northwest.

Taking the south-entrance, our attention was first turned to the collection of the Smithsonian
exhibits. They showed the results of scientific investigations during the forty-seven years
of its existence, and the scope of its work.

The contributions from the National Museum represented the natural resources of the United
States: Rare specimens of the American fauna; illustrations showing the geological variations
within the limits of the United States and the utilization of nature's rich gifts bestowed
upon this country. This department gave us occasion to obtain an entire idea of the enormous
melioration, arts and industries have experienced in modern times--by means of exhibits demonstrating
the history and development of ceramics, graphic arts, musical instruments; as well as many
important trades from the most primitive stages to the present day. Here also were interesting
studies in ethnology, prehistoric anthropology, archeology, religious ceremonials, zoology,
mineralogy, and geology.

The Treasury Department--more westward--contained models, pictures, charts, and diagrams elucidating
the Marine Hospital Service, Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Mint of the United States, the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the U.S. Lighthouse Establishment, the Bureau of Internal
Revenue, the Register's Office, and the Bureau of Statistics.

In the adjoining division assigned to the Postoffice, we could trace the subject of transportation
which plays so prominent a part in the history of civilization--by means of models, drawings,
and pictures from the most incipient stages to the modern uses of steam and electricity.

The northwestern portion of this interesting building was given up to the Department of the
Interior; embracing the Patent Office, the Bureau of Education, the Census Office, and the
U.S. Geological Survey.

In the rotunda we viewed the "Big Tree," a section thirty feet in length, cut from Sequoia
Gigantea, a tree 300 feet high whose diameter at the base covered a space of twenty-six feet.
It grew in the Sequoia National Park in the charming clime of California. Under the central
dome were also shown 138 colonial exhibits--relics of historic value from days long gone by.

The War Department was well represented in all its branches; regarding uniforms and equipage,
means of transportation, military engineering, shooting apparatuses, ammunition, etc.

Having visited the State and Justice Departments, we repaired to the division in which the
government displayed (in the Department of Agriculture) a very complete and comprehensively
arranged collection of grains obtained in this and other countries.

Very interesting were the adjacent exhibits, presenting to view the topics of food adulteration,
entomology, pomology, botany, ornithology, and mammalogy; together with experiments in fibre
investigation.

Betaking ourselves to the northern division, we were instructed--by various illustrations--of
the methods employed by the scientific branch of the Fish Commission in determining the habits,
peculiar to denizens of water. Models and apparatuses showed the results of Fish Culture.

The displays in this unique building covering almost all the branches of modern science and
arts, bore testimony to the fact that the United States now rank with the most powerful nations
on the globe; and to this attainment only a little more than one century of development was
requisite. This says everything for American enterprise and genius--and a country so young
in a very old world.

The circumstance of its being a calm evening--with the prospect of a pyrotechnic display later--permitted
us to remain on the Fair Grounds longer than we usually did; hence we determined to visit still
another structure.

By crossing a bridge over the lagoon, we arrived at the Fisheries Building. In the main edifice
we first saw fishing-tackles, nets, and other apparatuses used by fishermen, and shown by the
American Net and Twine Co. The contiguous space to the right was given up to the exhibits of
several States in the Union, especially noted for fisheries, and of various foreign countries
as Japan, the Netherlands, Canada, France, Great Britain, Russia, and Norway. Walking through
a curved arcade, we beheld on either side aquaria of an enormous capacity, inclosing both denizens
of fresh and salt water. It is safe to say the display of aquatic life made here, could rival
the greatest permanent aquaria in existence; not only as to their voluminousness, but the immense
variety of their specimens. Especially striking to the eye was a magnificent group of gold
fishes. The huge bull-cat fish and the gigantic turtle were conspicuous by their monstrousness.
We removed to the eastern extremity of the Fisheries Building, forming a spacious circular
pavilion. In the rotunda a basin, twenty-six feet wide, presented a beautiful scenic effect.
Over rocks picturesquely arranged, the silver meshes of a brook wound their way, forming here
and there white gushes of waterfall which contrasted agreeably with the moss covered stones,
and the semi-aquatic plants. The latter adorned the pool below, in which golden-hued fishes
moved lightly to and fro. The inspection of the angling pavilion at the extreme western side
of the Fisheries Building completed our visit in this fine structure, whose exhibits demonstrated
largely the fishery wealth of the United States.

Taking advantage of the extraordinary calmness of the atmosphere, our mindful commodore resolved
to moor the yacht in vicinity of the Exposition Grounds. For, he wished to give us opportunity
to witness the display of pyrotechnics announced for the latter part of the evening, in solemnization
of the Illinois Day. Therefore, the "Marguerite" conveyed us to a place which proved exceedingly
favorable for our design. Here, our floating home was anchored. Enjoying a full vista of the
White City, we found a prolific source of admiration in the grand electric spectacles. The
illumination of the Columbia fountain in front of the Administration Building, and the display
of two electric fountains in the western extremity of the South Pond, were magical in effectiveness.
Wonderful flash-lights blazed from the tops of the tallest towers, surmounting the larger structures.
Whenever the operator threw the search-light investigably over the yacht, we shut our eyes
spontaneously at its dazzling brilliancy.

As the gathering shadows of night wrapped land and water in darkness, the hour arrived in which
the visitors on the Fair Grounds--who seemed to be almost as numerous as the sands on the shore--expected
to view the scenic effects produced by means of fire.

We sat on the deck of the yacht as comfortably as in our boudoirs at home. Nevertheless, we
were able to enjoy ad libitum the same sight that so many others in the White City could only
see with difficulty, on account of the unusual throngs. When we reflected on this circumstance--so
much in our favor--our hearts were filled with gratitude toward our commodore, who had selected
this excellent locality. From here we admired the exceedingly fine pyrotechnic displays. Girandoles
pierced the sky in all directions, with rushing lines of fire. Sky-rockets exhibiting rich
hues of purple, red, and green ascended through the air; and when reaching the highest point
of their blazing paths, they discharged beautiful garnitures of floating stars, sparks, crackers,
serpents, gold and silver rain. Tourbillions mounting and rotating through the atmosphere,
formed brilliant spiral curves of fire. Splendid effects of changing color were brought to
view by revolving fire-wheels. An appropriate finale constituted the burning of the American
flag, which bore a sublime character in the brightness of fire.

As the first faint smile of the morning peeped over the eastern wave, I rose--greatly refreshed
by a sound sleep. Coming on deck, I found that the sun's unclouded orb already poured its rays
of light upon the earth.

Our eyes rested with delight on the White City throned on its numerous isles, looking like
a sea Cybele--ascending from the lake with her tiara of proud towers.

At our arrival on the Fair Grounds, Mr. James thoughtfully provided us with guides and rolling-chairs--vehicles
which reminded us of the Japanese Jin-riki-sha.

The main entrance of the AGRICULTURAL BUILDING--adorned on either side by mammoth Corinthian
pillars--ushered us into a vestibule, richly ornamented with appropriate statuary. From here,
we reached a rotunda surmounted by a gigantic glass dome. When looking about on the main floor,
we fancied ourselves to be in a city of pavilions. For, the States of the Union as well as
the foreign nations had environed their displays with magnificent little temples and pagodas.
To a great extent, they formed exhibits themselves, because in most cases the chief products
of the respective country had been utilized for their construction. Nebraska, for example,
had employed sweet corn for the erection of its pavilion.

Every state and territory was represented by its productions; the Northern States with Indian
corn, wheat, oats, barley, rye, and other cereals; the South with cotton, rice, sugar, etc.
Virginia, North Carolina, Kentucky, and Tennessee evinced their noted superiority in the culture
of the nicotian plant, which is in such great favor with the consumers of tobacco.

Agricultural and other food displays were shown in great varieties by the foreign countries.
In the German section the gigantic Chocolate Tower (built of several hundred tons of chocolate
by the famous firm "Gebrueder Stollwerck" in Cologne) compelled admiration. The Liebig exhibit
of canned and preserved meat was a prominent feature of this division. Great Britain showed
specimens of grain from the English experimental grounds, representing the effects of artificial
fertilization on the various seeds. The contributions made by Canada embraced grain, seeds,
and roots; and its eleven ton cheese constituted one of the unique exhibits in this edifice.
As in all great departmental structures, Japan was well represented. It had a fine display
of its chief exports--tea, rice, and raw silk. Russia's showing covered a space of 32,000 feet.
New South Wales, France, Mexico, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, and numerous other foreign countries
demonstrated, likewise, the variety and wealth of their natural resources.

Besides the farm products of the world in all their diversity and perfection, agricultural
machinery was exhibited: Devices of every description from the most primitive implements to
the highly improved machines as they are in use at the present day. The ingenious arrangement
of this display enabled the visitor to perceive at a glance the enormous progress made in that
branch of industry. Thus, we viewed in the annex of the main floor one of the most perfected
plows--the "Queen"--a trophy of modern inventiveness. And beside it stood an implement, which
reminded us by its simplicity and unwieldiness of an apparatus, described in mythology as used
by Ceres dea agriculturae--when teaching to mankind this important occupation.

The south-western portion of the first floor was covered with instructive contributions of
American agricultural colleges and experiment stations. They embraced the entire field of scientific
research in all branches of husbandry; illustrating the most improved methods of cultivation,
and explaining how the best results may be secured.

The great galleries contained a fine wool exhibit, an interesting apiary display, dairy implements,
and a vast collection of manufactured food products.

The multitudinous objects brought to view in this building, proved beyond doubt, that the standard
of excellence in that ancient occupation has been achieved mainly with the assistance of scientific
researches.

A colonnade formed the connecting link between the Palace of Agriculture and the Machinery
Hall. In its center, from an archway--leading to the live-stock exhibit--we enjoyed a fine
view down the lagoon--extending nearly a mile in length.

As adjuncts to the agricultural department, may be regarded the displays in the Dairy and Forestry
Buildings.

On entering the PALACE OF MECHANICAL ARTS, three elevated traveling cranes running from end
to end of the structure, attracted our attention. They had been utilized in the work of construction,
as well as in moving the machines presented to view. The platforms erected upon them, gave
us occasion to look upon the entire machinery exhibition. The driving power used in the main
building and annex was steam; excepting two small sections driven by electric motors. Adjoining
the south side of the edifice extended the enormous power plant. It supplied the Machinery
Hall with a total steam power of about 3,000 horses generated by twelve engines. The entire
plant, comprising over sixty steam-engines, and operating 127 dynamos, represented a most stupendous
display of mechanical energy hitherto unequaled. Its total capacity was equivalent to 20,000 H.P.

The domestic exhibits located in the western portion of the main building--but mostly in the
annex, revealed the marvelous progress made during the last decades in this wonderfully prospering
country. Shown by great firms from almost every state and territory were devices of various
forms: Motors and apparatuses for the generation and transmission of power--fire-engines and
other appliances for extinguishing a conflagration--machine tools and devices for working metals--machinery
for the manufacture of textile fabrics and clothing, for cutting wood, for typesetting, printing,
embossing, book making and paper working, lithography, and photo-mechanical process, for working-stone,
clay, and other minerals. In short, there were machines of every description employed in all
industrial pursuits imaginable; yea, even appliances for facilitating the housekeepers' daily
duties as laundry- and dish-washing machines.

In fact, it must require a considerable effort to excogitate novel labor-saving devices. Nevertheless,
man's ever active ingenuity constantly increases the number of meliorated contrivances.

The pump exhibit was grouped around a tank of water, comprising an area of 7,500 feet. Here
at the junction of the main hall and annex, scores of modern pumps were in active operation.

Of the foreign countries we found Germany best represented, quantitatively as well as qualitatively.
The other prominent displays were made by France, Great Britain, Canada, Belgium, Russia, Spain,
Italy, Mexico, New South Wales, Austria, and Switzerland.

Here, the mechanical engineer was enabled to make studies of incalculable profit for his professional
career; and even the lay mind received a vast amount of information.

We abandoned the Machinery Hall at its northern extremity, and repaired to the most magnificent
structure on the Exposition Grounds. The exterior of the ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, so rich in
architectural treatment, had compelled our admiration, to be sure; but the interior features
even exceeded it in splendor. The four mammoth entrances were beautifully adorned by statuaries
of emblematic character. There exist but few edifices of similar character, whose ornamentations
rival those of its interior dome, which rose 200 feet from the floor.

The four corner pavilions, four stories high, contained offices for the various departments
of the Administration; Board and Committee rooms; the Postoffice; a Bank, etc.

An exhibit, manifesting the unrivaled wealth of the republic, and placed in the center of the
rotunda on the first floor was an excellent reproduction of the Capitol in Washington in miniature,
erected of silver coins: indeed a master-piece. I shall leave it to the reader to find out
how many of the half dollar-pieces were needed for the construction of this unique building,
contributed by the U.S. Government. To our regret Mr. George R. Davis, Director-General of
the Columbian exposition, whom we intended to call upon, was absent. So we determined to have
the ELECTRICITY BUILDING next in our programme.

