"General," said he, "you have betrayed me--your Cossacks here positively say that they will
arrest me and turn me over to the sailors."

"Yes," I answered, "there is talk about it, and I know that you have no sympathizers here at all."

"But are the officers, too, of the same mind?"

"Yes, the officers are especially dissatisfied with you."

"Then, what am I to do? I'll have to commit suicide."

"If you are an honest man, you will proceed immediately to Petrograd under a flag of truce
and report to the Revolutionary Committee, where you will talk things over, as the head of
the Government."

"Yes, I'll do that, General!"

"I will furnish a guard for you and will ask that a sailor accompany you."

"No, anyone but a sailor. Don't you know that Dybenko is here?"

"No, I don't know who Dybenko is."

"He is an enemy of mine."

"Well, that can't be helped. When one plays for great stakes, he must be prepared to lose all."

"All right. Only I shall go at night."

"Why? That would be flight. Go calmly and openly, so that everyone can see that you are fleeing."

"Well, all right. Only you must provide for me a dependable convoy."

"All right."

I went and called out a Cossack from the 10th Don Cossack regiment, a certain Rysskov, and
ordered him to appoint eight Cossacks to guard the Supreme Commander-in-Chief.

Half an hour later, the Cossacks came and reported that Kerensky had gone already--that he
had fled. I gave an alarm and ordered a search for him. I believe that he cannot have escaped
from Gatchinsk and must now be in hiding here somewhere.

Commanding the 3rd Corps,

Major-General Krassnov.

*       *       *       *       *

Thus ended this undertaking.

Our opponents still would not yield, however, and did not admit that the question of government
power was settled. They continued to base their hopes on the front. Many leaders of the former
Soviet parties--Chernoff, Tseretelli, Avksentiev, Gotz and others--went to the front, entered
into negotiations with the old army committees, and, according to newspaper reports, tried
even in the camp, to form a new ministry. All this came to naught. The old army committees
had lost all their significance, and intensive work was going on at the front in connection
with the conferences and councils called for the purpose of reorganizing all army organizations.
In these re-elections the Soviet Government was everywhere victorious.

From Gatchinsk, our divisions proceeded along the railroad further in the direction of the
Luga River and Pskov. On the way, they met a few more trainloads of shock-troops and Cossacks,
which had been called out by Kerensky, or which individual generals had sent over. With one
of these echelons there was even an armed encounter. But most of the soldiers that were sent
from the front to Petrograd declared, as soon as they met with representatives of the Soviet
forces, that they had been deceived and that they would not lift a finger against the government
of soldiers and workingmen.

INTERNAL FRICTION

In the meantime, the struggle for Soviet control spread all over the country. In Moscow, especially,
this struggle took on an extremely protracted and bloody character. Perhaps not the least important
cause of this was the fact that the leaders of the revolt did not at once show the necessary
determination in attacking. In civil war, more than in any other, victory can be insured only
by a determined and persistent course. There must be no vacillation. To engage in parleys is
dangerous; merely to mark time is suicidal. We are dealing here with the masses, who have never
held any power in their hands, who are therefore most wanting in political self-confidence.
Any hesitation at revolutionary headquarters demoralizes them immediately. It is only when
a revolutionary party steadily and resolutely makes for its goal, that it can help the toilers
to overcome their century-old instincts of slavery and lead them on to victory. And only by
these means of aggressive charges can victory be achieved with the smallest expenditure of
energy and the least number of sacrifices.

But the great difficulty is to acquire such firm and positive tactics. The people's want of
confidence in their own power and their lack of political experience are naturally reflected
in their leaders, who, in their turn, find themselves subjected, besides, to the tremendous
pressure of bourgeois public opinion, from above.

The liberal bourgeoisie treated with contempt and indignation the mere idea of the possibility
of a working class government and gave free vent to their feelings on the subject, in the innumerable
organs at their disposal. Close behind them trailed the intellectuals, who, with all their
professions of radicalism and all the socialistic coating of their world-philosophy, are, in
the depths of their hearts, completely steeped in slavish worship of bourgeois strength and
administrative ability. All these "Socialistic" intellectuals hastily joined the Right and
considered the ever-increasing strength of the Soviet government as the clear beginning of
the end. After the representatives of the "liberal" professions came the petty officials, the
administrative technicians--all those elements which materially and spiritually subsist on
the crumbs that fall from the bourgeois table. The opposition of these elements was chiefly
passive in character, especially after the crushing of the cadet insurrection; but, nevertheless,
it might still seem formidable. We were being denied co-operation at every step. The government
officials would either leave the Ministry or refuse to work while remaining in it. They would
turn over neither the business of the department nor its money accounts. The telephone operators
refused to connect us, while our messages were either held up or distorted in the telegraph
offices. We could not get translators, stenographers or even copyists.

All this could not fail to create such an atmosphere as led various elements in the higher
ranks of our own party to doubt whether, in the face of a boycott by bourgeois society, the
toilers could manage to put the machinery of government in working order and continue in power.
Opinions were voiced as to the necessity of coalition. Coalition with whom? With the liberal
bourgeoisie. But an attempt at coalition with them had driven the revolution into a terrible
morass. The revolt of the 25th of October was an act of self-preservation on the part of the
masses after the period of impotence and treason of the leaders of coalition government. There
remained for us only coalition in the ranks of so-called revolutionary democracy, that is,
coalition of all the Soviet parties.

Such a coalition we did, in fact, propose from the very beginning--at the session of the Second
All-Russian Council of Soviets, on the 25th of October. The Kerensky Government had been overthrown,
and we suggested that the Council of Soviets take the government into its own hands. But the
Right parties withdrew, slamming the door after them. And this was the best thing they could
have done. They represented an insignificant section of the Council. They no longer had any
following in the masses, and those classes which still supported them out of mere inertia,
were coming over to our side more and more. Coalition with the Right Social-Revolutionists
and the Mensheviki could not broaden the social basis of the Soviet government; and would,
at the same time, introduce into the composition of this government elements which were completely
disintegrated by political skepticism and idolatry of the liberal bourgeoisie. The whole strength
of the new government lay in the radicalism of its program and the boldness of its actions.
To tie itself up with the Chernofi and Tseretelli factions would mean to bind the new government
hand and foot--to deprive it of freedom of action and thereby forfeit the confidence of the
masses in the shortest possible time.

Our nearest political neighbors to the Right were the so-called "Left Social Revolutionists."
They were, in general, quite ready to support us, but endeavored, nevertheless, to form a coalition
Socialist government. The management of the railroad union (the so-called vikzhal), the Central
Committee of the Postal Telegraph employees, and the Union of Government Officials were all
against us. And in the higher circles of our own party, voices were being raised as to the
necessity of reaching an understanding with these organizations, one way or another. But on
what basis? All the above-mentioned controlling organizations of the old period had outlived
their usefulness. They bore approximately the same relation to the entire lower personnel as
did the old army committees to the masses of soldiers in the trenches. History has created
a big gulf between the higher classes and the lower. Unprincipled combinations of these leaders
of another day--leaders made antiquated by the revolution--were doomed to inevitable failure.
It was necessary to depend wholly and confidently upon the masses in order, jointly with them,
to overcome the sabotage and the aristocratic pretensions of the upper classes.

We left it to the Left Social-Revolutionists to continue the hopeless efforts for coalition.
Our policy was, on the contrary, to line up the toiling lower classes against the representatives
of organizations which supported the Kerensky regime. This uncompromising policy caused considerable
friction and even division in the upper circles of our party. In the Central Executive Committee,
the Left Social Revolutionists protested against the severity of our measures and insisted
upon the necessity for compromises. They met with support on the part of some of the Bolsheviki.
Three People's Commissaries gave up their portfolios and left the government. A few other party
leaders sided with them in principle. This created a very deep impression in intellectual and
bourgeois circles. If the Bolsheviki could not be defeated by the cadets and Krassnov's Cossacks,
thought they, it is quite clear that the Soviet government must now perish as a result of internal
dissension. However, the masses never noticed this dissension at all. They unanimously supported
the Soviet of People's Commissaries, not only against counter-revolutionary instigators and
sabotagers but also against the coalitionists and the skeptics.

THE FATE OF THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY

When, after the Korniloff episode, the ruling Soviet parties tried to smooth over their laxness
toward the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, they demanded a speedier convocation of the Constituent
Assembly. Kerensky, whom the Soviets had just saved from the too light embraces of his ally,
Korniloff, found himself compelled to make compromises. The call for the Constituent Assembly
was issued for the end of November. By that time, however, circumstances had so shaped themselves
that there was no guarantee whatever that the Constituent Assembly would really be convoked.

The greatest degree of disorganization was taking place at the front. Desertions were increasing
every day; the masses of soldiers threatened to leave the trenches, whole regiments at a time,
and move to the rear, devastating everything on their way. In the villages, a general seizure
of lands and landholders' utensils was going on. Martial law had been declared in several provinces.
The Germans continued to advance, captured Riga, and threatened Petrograd. The right wing of
the bourgeoisie was openly rejoicing over the danger that threatened the revolutionary capital.
The government offices at Petrograd were being evacuated, and Kerensky's government was preparing
to move to Moscow. All this made the actual convocation of the Constituent Assembly not only
doubtful, but hardly even probable. From this point of view, the October revolution seems to
have been the deliverance of the Constituent Assembly, as it has been the savior of the Revolution
generally. When we were declaring that the road to the Constituent Assembly was not by way
of Tseretelli's Preliminary Parliament, but by way of the seizure of the reigns of government
by the Soviets, we were quite sincere.

But the interminable delay in convoking the Constituent Assembly was not without effect upon
this institution itself. Heralded in the first days of the revolution, it came into being only
after eight or nine months of bitter class and party struggle. It came too late to play a creative
role. Its internal inadequacy had been predetermined by a single fact--a fact which might seem
unimportant at first, but which subsequently took on tremendous importance for the fate of
the Constituent Assembly.

Numerically, the principal revolutionary party in the first epoch was the party of Social-Revolutionists.
I have already referred to its formlessness and variegated composition. The revolution led
inevitably to the dismemberment of such of its members as had joined it under the banner of
populism. The left wing, which had a following among part of the workers and the vast masses
of poor peasants, was becoming more and more alienated from the rest. This wing found itself
in uncompromising opposition to the party and middle bourgeois branches of Social Revolutionists.
But the inertness of party organization and party tradition held back the inevitable process
of cleavage. The proportional system of elections still holds full sway, as every one knows,
in party lists. Since these lists were made up two or three months before the October revolution
and were not subject to change, the Left and the Right Social Revolutionists still figured
in these lists as one and the same party. Thus, by the time of the October revolution--that
is, the period when the Right Social Revolutionists were arresting the Left and then the Left
were combining with the Bolsheviki for the overthrow of Kerensky's ministry, the old lists
remained in full force; and in the elections for the Constituent Assembly the peasants were
compelled to vote for lists of names at the head of which stood Kerensky, followed by those
of Left Social Revolutionists who participated in the plot for his overthrow.

If the months preceding the October revolution were months of continuous gain in popular support
for the Left--of a general increase in Bolshevik following among workers, soldiers and peasants--then
this process was reflected within the party of Social Revolutionists in an increase of the
left wing at the expense of the right. Nevertheless, on the party lists of the Social Revolutionists
there was a predominance of three to one of old leaders of the right wing--of men who had lost
all their revolutionary reputation in the days of coalition with the liberal bourgeoisie.

To this should be added also the fact that the elections themselves were held during the first
weeks after the October revolution. The news of the change traveled rather slowly from the
capital to the provinces, from the cities to the villages. The peasantry in many places had
but a very vague idea of what was taking place in Petrograd and Moscow. They voted for "Land
and Liberty," for their representatives in the land committees, who in most cases gathered
under the banner of populism: but thereby they were voting for Kerensky and Avksentiev, who
were dissolving the land committees, and arresting their members. As a result of this, there
came about the strange political paradox that one of the two parties which dissolved the Constituent
Assembly--the Left Social-Revolutionists--had won its representation by being on the same list
of names with the party which gave a majority to the Constituent Assembly. This matter-of-fact
phase of the question should give a very clear idea of the extent to which the Constituent
Assembly lagged behind the course of political events and party groupings.

We must consider the question of principles.

THE PRINCIPLES OF DEMOCRACY AND PROLETARIAN DICTATORSHIP

As Marxists, we have never been idol-worshippers of formal democracy. In a society of classes,
democratic institutions not only do not eliminate class struggle, but also give to class interests
an utterly imperfect expression. The propertied classes always have at their disposal tens
and hundreds of means for falsifying, subverting and violating the will of the toilers. And
democratic institutions become a still less perfect medium for the expression of the class
struggle under revolutionary circumstances. Marx called revolutions "the locomotives of history."
Owing to the open and direct struggle for power, the working people acquire much political
experience in a short time and pass rapidly from one stage to the next in their development.
The ponderous machinery of democratic institutions lags behind this evolution all the more,
the bigger the country and the less perfect its technical apparatus.

The majority in the Constituent Assembly proved to be Social Revolutionists, and, according
to parliamentary rules of procedure, the control of the government belonged to them. But the
party of Right Social Revolutionists had a chance to acquire control during the entire pre-October
period of the revolution. Yet, they avoided the responsibilities of government, leaving the
lion's share of it to the liberal bourgeoisie. By this very course the Right Social Revolutionists
lost the last vestiges of their influence with the revolutionary elements by the time the numerical
composition of the Constituent Assembly formally obliged them to form a government. The working
class, as well as the Red Guards, were very hostile to the party of Right Social Revolutionists.
The vast majority of soldiers supported the Bolsheviki. The revolutionary element in the provinces
divided their sympathies between the Left Social Revolutionists and the Bolsheviki. The sailors,
who had played such an important role in revolutionary events, were almost unanimously on our
side. The Right Social Revolutionists, moreover, had to leave the Soviets, which in October--that
is, before the convocation of the Constituent Assembly--had taken the government into their
own hands. On whom, then, could a ministry formed by the Constituent Assembly's majority depend
for support? It would be backed by the upper classes in the provinces, the intellectuals, the
government officials, and temporarily by the bourgeoisie on the Right. But such a government
would lack all the material means of administration. At such a political center as Petrograd,
it would encounter irresistible opposition from the very start. If under these circumstances
the Soviets, submitting to the formal logic of democratic conventions, had turned the government
over to the party of Kerensky and Chernov, such a government, compromised and debilitated as
it was, would only introduce temporary confusion into the political life of the country, and
would be overthrown by a new uprising in a few weeks. The Soviets decided to reduce this belated
historical experiment to its lowest terms, and dissolved the Constituent Assembly the very
first day it met.

For this, our party has been most severely censured. The dispersal of the Constituent Assembly
has also created a decidedly unfavorable impression among the leading circles of the European
Socialist parties. Kautsky has explained, in a series of articles written with his characteristic
pedantry, the interrelation existing between the Social-Revolutionary problems of the proletariat
and the regime of political democracy. He tries to prove that for the working class it is always
expedient, in the long run, to preserve the essential elements of the democratic order. This
is, of course, true as a general rule. But Kautsky has reduced this historical truth to professorial
banality. If, in the final analysis, it is to the advantage of the proletariat to introduce
its class struggle and even its dictatorship, through the channels of democratic institutions,
it does not at all follow that history always affords it the opportunity for attaining this
happy consummation. There is nothing in the Marxian theory to warrant the deduction that history
always creates such conditions as are most "favorable" to the proletariat.

It is difficult to tell now how the course of the Revolution would have run if the Constituent
Assembly had been convoked in its second or third month. It is quite probable that the then
dominant Social Revolutionary and Menshevik parties would have compromised themselves, together
with the Constituent Assembly, in the eyes of not only the more active elements supporting
the Soviets, but also of the more backward democratic masses, who might have been attached,
through their expectations not to the side of the Soviets, but to that of the Constituent Assembly.
Under such circumstances the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly might have led to new
elections, in which the party of the Left could have secured a majority. But the course of
events has been different. The elections for the Constituent Assembly occurred in the ninth
month of the Revolution. By that time the class struggle had assumed such intensity that it
broke the formal frames of democracy by sheer internal force.

The proletariat drew the army and the peasantry after it. These classes were in a state of
direct and bitter war with the Right Social Revolutionists. This party, owing to the clumsy
electoral democratic machinery, received a majority in the Constituent Assembly, reflecting
the pre-October epoch of the revolution. The result was a contradiction which was absolutely
irreducible within the limits of formal democracy. And only political pedants who do not take
into account the revolutionary logic of class relations, can, in the face of the post-October
situation, deliver futile lectures to the proletariat on the benefits and advantages of democracy
for the cause of the class struggle.

The question was put by history far more concretely and sharply. The Constituent Assembly,
owing to the character of its majority, was bound to turn over the government to the Chernov,
Kerensky and Tseretelli group. Could this group have guided the destinies of the Revolution?
Could it have found support in that class which constitutes the backbone of the Revolution?
No. The real kernel of the class revolution has come into irreconcilable conflict with its
democratic shell. By this situation the fate of the Constituent Assembly had been sealed. Its
dissolution became the only possible surgical remedy for the contradiction, which had been
created, not by us, but by all the preceding course of events.

PEACE NEGOTIATIONS

At the historic night session of the Second All-Russian Congress of the Soviets the decree
on peace was adopted. (The full text is printed in the Appendix.) At that moment the Soviet
government was only becoming established in the important centers of the country and there
was very little confidence abroad in its power. The Soviet adopted the decree unanimously.
But this seemed to many no more than a political demonstration. Those who were for a compromise
preached at every opportunity that our resolution would bring no results; for, on the one hand,
the German imperialists would not recognize and would not deal with us; on the other hand,
our Allies would declare war upon us as soon as we should start negotiating a separate peace.
Under the shadow of these predictions we took our first steps to secure a general democratic
peace. The decree was adopted on the 26th of October, when Kerensky and Krassnov were at the
gates of Petrograd. On the 7th of November, we addressed by wireless an invitation to our Allies
and enemies to conclude a general peace. In reply the Allied Governments addressed to General
Dukhonin, then commander-in-chief, through their military attaches, a communication stating
that further steps to separate peace negotiations would lead to the gravest consequences. To
this protest we answered the 11th of November by appealing to all the workers, soldiers and
peasants. In this appeal we declared that under no circumstances would we permit our army to
shed its blood under the club of the foreign bourgeoisie. We swept aside the threat of the
Western imperialists and took upon ourselves the responsibility for our peace policy before
the international working class. First of all, we published, in accordance with our promises,
made as a matter of principle, the secret treaties and declared that we would relinquish everything
in these treaties that was against the interests of the masses of the people in all countries.
The capitalist governments made an attempt to make use of our disclosures against one another,
but the masses of the people understood and recognized us. Not a single social patriotic publication,
as far as we know, dared to protest against having all the methods of diplomacy radically changed
by a government of peasants and workers; they dared not protest against us for denouncing the
dishonest cunning, chicanery and cheating of the old diplomacy. We made it the task of our
diplomacy to enlighten the masses of the peoples, to open their eyes to the real meaning of
the policy of their governments, in order to weld them together in a common struggle and a
common hatred against the bourgeois capitalist order. The German bourgeois press accused us
of "dragging on" the peace negotiations; but all nations anxiously followed the discussions
at Brest-Litovsk, and in this way we rendered, during the two months and a half of peace negotiations,
a service to the cause of peace which was recognized even by the more honest of our enemies.
The question of peace was first put before the world in a shape which made it impossible to
side-track it any longer by machinations behind the scenes. On the 22nd of November a truce
was signed to discontinue military activities on the entire front from the Baltic to the Black
Sea. Once more we requested our Allies to join us and to conduct together with us the peace
negotiations. There was no reply, though this time the Allies did not again attempt to frighten
us by threats. The peace negotiations were started December 9th, a month and a half after the
peace decree was adopted. The accusations of the purchased press and of the social-traitor
press that we had made no attempt to agree with our Allies on a common policy was therefore
entirely false. For a month and a half we kept our Allies informed about every step we made
and always called upon them to become a party to the peace negotiations. Our conscience is
clear before the peoples of France, Italy and Great Britain.... We did all in our power to
get all the belligerents to join the peace negotiations. If we were compelled to start separate
peace negotiations, it was not because of any fault of ours, but because of the Western imperialists,
as well as those of the Russian parties, which continued predicting the approaching destruction
of the workmen's and peasants' government of Russia and who persuaded the Allies not to pay
serious attention to our peace initiative. But be that as it may, on the 9th of December the
peace conversations were started. Our delegation made a statement of principles which set forth
the basis of a general democratic peace in the exact expressions of the decree of the 26th
of October (8th of November). The other side demanded that the session be broken off, and the
reopening of the sessions was later, at the suggestion of Kuehlmann, repeatedly delayed. It
was clear that the delegation of the Teuton Allies experienced no small difficulty in the formulation
of its reply to our delegation. On the 25th of December this reply was given. The diplomats
of the Teuton Allies expressed agreement with our democratic formula of peace without annexations
and indemnities, on the basis of self-determination of peoples. We saw clearly that this was
but pretense; but we had not expected even that they would try to pretend; because, as the
French writer has said, hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue. The fact that the
German imperialists found it necessary to make this tribute to the principles of democracy,
was, in our eyes, evidence that the situation of affairs within Germany was serious enough....
But if we, generally speaking, had no illusions concerning the love for democracy of Messrs.
Kuehlmann and Czernin--we know well enough the nature of the German and Austro-Hungarian dominating
classes--it must nevertheless be admitted that we had not the slightest idea of the chasm which
separated the real intentions of German imperialism from those principles which were put forth
on the 25th of December by Mr. von Kuehlmann as a parody on the Russian revolution--a chasm
which was revealed so strikingly a few days later. Such audacity we had never expected.

Kuehlmann's reply made a tremendous impression upon the working masses of Russia. It was interpreted
as a result of the fear felt by the dominant classes of the Central Empires because of the
discontent and the growing impatience of the working masses of Germany. On the 28th of December
there took place in Petrograd a joint demonstration of workmen and soldiers for a democratic
peace. The next morning our delegation came back from Brest-Litovsk and brought those brigand
demands which Mr. von Kuehlmann made to us in the name of the Central Empires as an interpretation
of his "democratic" formulae.

