"How very shocking!  I don't like to hear of such disagreeable things; it affects my nerves
terribly.  Well, I'm sure I haven't anything to give.  Mamma said yesterday she was sure she
didn't know how our bills were to be paid; and there's my green satin with point- lace yet
to come home."  And Miss Katy-did shrugged her shoulders and affected to be very busy with
Colonel Katy-did, in just the way that young ladies sometimes do when they wish to signify
to visitors that they had better leave.

Little Miss Cricket perceived how the case stood, and so hopped briskly off, without giving
herself even time to be offended.  "Poor extravagant little thing!" said she to herself, "it
was hardly worth while to ask her."

"Pray, shall you invite the Crickets?" said Colonel Katy-did.

"Who?  I?  Why, colonel, what a question!  Invite the Crickets?  Of what can you be thinking?"

"And shall you not ask the Locusts, and the Grasshoppers?"

"Certainly.  The Locusts, of course,--a very old and distinguished family; and the Grasshoppers
are pretty well, and ought to be asked. But we must draw a line somewhere,--and the Crickets!
why, it's shocking even to think of!"

"I thought they were nice, respectable people."

"Oh, perfectly nice and respectable,--very good people, in fact, so far as that goes.  But
then you must see the difficulty."

"My dear cousin, I am afraid you must explain."

"Why, their COLOUR, to be sure.  Don't you see?"

"Oh!" said the colonel.  "That's it, is it?  Excuse me, but I have been living in France, where
these distinctions are wholly unknown, and I have not yet got myself in the train of fashionable
ideas here."

"Well, then, let me teach you," said Miss Katy.  "You know we republicans go for no distinctions
except those created by Nature herself, and we found our rank upon COLOUR, because that is
clearly a thing that none has any hand in but our Maker.  You see?"

"Yes; but who decides what colour shall be the reigning colour?"

"I'm surprised to hear the question!  The only true colour--the only proper one--is OUR colour,
to be sure.  A lovely pea-green is the precise shade on which to found aristocratic distinction.
But then we are liberal;--we associate with the Moths, who are gray; with the Butterflies,
who are blue-and-gold coloured; with the Grasshoppers, yellow and brown; and society would
become dreadfully mixed if it were not fortunately ordered that the Crickets are black as jet.
The fact is, that a class to be looked down upon is necessary to all elegant society; and if
the Crickets were not black, we could not keep them down, because, as everybody knows, they
are often a great deal cleverer than we are.  They have a vast talent for music and dancing;
they are very quick at learning, and would be getting to the very top of the ladder if we once
allowed them to climb.  But their being black is a convenience; because, as long as we are
green and they black, we have a superiority that can never be taken from us. Don't you see now?"

"Oh yes, I see exactly," said the colonel.

"Now that Keziah Cricket, who just came in here, is quite a musician, and her old father plays
the violin beautifully;--by the way, we might engage him for our orchestra."

And so Miss Katy's ball came off, and the performers kept it up from sundown till daybreak,
so that it seemed as if every leaf in the forest were alive.  The Katy-dids and the Mosquitoes,
and the Locusts, and a full orchestra of Crickets made the air perfectly vibrate, insomuch
that old Parson Too-Whit, who was preaching a Thursday evening lecture to a very small audience,
announced to his hearers that he should certainly write a discourse against dancing for the
next weekly occasion.

The good doctor was even with his word in the matter, and gave out some very sonorous discourses,
without in the least stopping the round of gaieties kept up by these dissipated Katy-dids,
which ran on, night after night, till the celebrated Jack Frost epidemic, which occurred somewhere
about the first of September.

Poor Miss Katy, with her flimsy green satin and point-lace, was one of the first victims, and
fell from the bough in company with a sad shower of last year's leaves.  The worthy Cricket
family, however, avoided Jack Frost by emigrating in time to the chimney-corner of a nice little
cottage that had been built in the wood that summer.

There good old Mr. and Mrs. Cricket, with sprightly Miss Keziah and her brothers and sisters,
found a warm and welcome home; and when the storm howled without, and lashed the poor naked
trees, the Crickets on the warm hearth would chirp out cheery welcome to papa as he came in
from the snowy path, or mamma as she sat at her work-basket.

"Cheep, cheep, cheep!" little Freddy would say.  "Mamma, who is it says 'cheep'?"

"Dear Freddy, it's our own dear little cricket, who loves us and comes to sing to us when the
snow is on the ground."

So when poor Miss Katy-did's satin and lace were all swept away, the warm home-talents of the
Crickets made for them a welcome refuge.

MOTHER MAGPIE'S MISCHIEF

Old Mother Magpie was about the busiest character in the forest.  But you must know that there
is a great difference between being busy and being industrious.  One may be very busy all the
time, and yet not in the least industrious; and this was the case with Mother Magpie.

She was always full of everybody's business but her own--up and down, here and there, everywhere
but in her own nest, knowing everyone's affairs, telling what everybody had been doing or ought
to do, and ready to cast her advice gratis at every bird and beast of the woods.

Now she bustled up to the parsonage at the top of the oak-tree, to tell old Parson Too-Whit
what she thought he ought to preach for his next sermon, and how dreadful the morals of the
parish were becoming. Then, having perfectly bewildered the poor old gentleman, who was always
sleepy of a Monday morning, Mother Magpie would take a peep into Mrs. Oriole's nest, sit chattering
on a bough above, and pour forth floods of advice, which, poor little Mrs. Oriole used to say
to her husband, bewildered her more than a hard north-east storm.

"Depend upon it, my dear," Mother Magpie would say, "that this way of building your nest, swinging
like an old empty stocking from a bough, isn't at all the thing.  I never built one so in my
life, and I never have headaches.  Now you complain always that your head aches whenever I
call upon you.  It's all on account of this way of swinging and swaying about in such an absurd
manner."

"But, my dear," piped Mrs. Oriole timidly, "the Orioles always have built in this manner, and
it suits our constitution."

"A fiddle on your constitution!  How can you tell what agrees with your constitution unless
you try?  You own you are not well; you are subject to headaches; and every physician will
tell you that a tilting motion disorders the stomach and acts upon the brain.  Ask old Dr.
Kite.  I was talking with him about your case only yesterday, and says he, 'Mrs. Magpie, I
perfectly agree with you.'"

"But my husband prefers this style of building."

"That's only because he isn't properly instructed.  Pray, did you ever attend Dr. Kite's lectures
on the nervous system?"

"No, I have no time to attend lectures.  Who would sit on the eggs?"

"Why, your husband, to be sure; don't he take his turn in sitting? If he don't, he ought to.
I shall speak to him about it.  My husband always sits regularly half the time, that I may
have time to go about and exercise."

"O Mrs. Magpie, pray don't speak to my husband; he will think I've been complaining."

"No, no, he won't.  Let me alone.  I understand just how to say the thing.  I've advised hundreds
of young husbands in my day, and I never gave offence."

"But I tell you, Mrs. Magpie, I don't want any interference between my husband and me, and
I will not have it," says Mrs. Oriole, with her little round eyes flashing with indignation.

"Don't put yourself in a passion, my dear; the more you talk, the more sure I am that your
nervous system is running down, or you wouldn't forget good manners in this way.  You'd better
take my advice, for I understand just what to do,"--and away sails Mother Magpie; and presently
young Oriole comes home all in a flutter.

"I say, my dear, if you will persist in gossiping over our private family matters with that
old Mother Magpie--"

"My dear, I don't gossip.  She comes and bores me to death with talking, and then goes off
and mistakes what she has been saying for what I said."

"But you must CUT her."

"I try to, all I can; but she won't BE cut."

"It's enough to make a bird swear," said Tommy Oriole.

Tommy Oriole, to say the truth, had as good a heart as ever beat under bird's feathers; but
then he had a weakness for concerts and general society, because he was held to be, by all
odds, the handsomest bird in the woods, and sung like an angel; and so the truth was he didn't
confine himself so much to the domestic nest as Tom Titmouse or Billy Wren.  But he determined
that he wouldn't have old Mother Magpie interfering with his affairs.

"The fact is," quoth Tommy, "I am a society bird, and Nature has marked out for me a course
beyond the range of the commonplace, and my wife must learn to accommodate.  If she has a brilliant
husband, whose success gratifies her ambition and places her in a distinguished public position,
she must pay something for it.  I'm sure Billy Wren's wife would give her very bill to see
her husband in the circles where I am quite at home.  To say the truth, my wife was all well
enough content till old Mother Magpie interfered.  It is quite my duty to take strong ground,
and show that I cannot be dictated to."

So, after this, Tommy Oriole went to rather more concerts, and spent less time at home than
ever he did before, which was all that Mother Magpie effected in that quarter.  I confess this
was very bad in Tommy; but then birds are no better than men in domestic matters, and sometimes
will take the most unreasonable courses, if a meddlesome Magpie gets her claw into their nest.

But old Mother Magpie had now got a new business in hand in another quarter.  She bustled off
down to Water-Dock Lane, where, as we said in a former narrative, lived the old music-teacher,
Dr. Bullfrog. The poor old doctor was a simple-minded, good, amiable creature, who had played
the double-bass and led the forest choir on all public occasions since nobody knows when. 
Latterly some youngsters had arisen who sneered at his performances as behind the age.  In
fact, since a great city had grown up in the vicinity of the forest, tribes of wandering boys
broke up the simple tastes and quiet habits which old Mother Nature had always kept up in those
parts.  They pulled the young checkerberry before it even had time to blossom, rooted up the
sassafras shrubs and gnawed their roots, fired off guns at the birds, and on several occasions,
when old Dr. Bullfrog was leading a concert, had dashed in and broken up the choir by throwing
stones.

This was not the worst of it.  The little varlets had a way of jeering at the simple old doctor
and his concerts, and mimicking the tones of his bass-viol.  "There you go, Paddy-go-donk,
Paddy-go-donk- -umph--chunk," some rascal of a boy would shout, while poor old Bullfrog's yellow
spectacles would be bedewed with tears of honest indignation.  In time, the jeers of these
little savages began to tell on the society in the forest, and to corrupt their simple manners;
and it was whispered among the younger and more heavy birds and squirrels that old Bullfrog
was a bore, and that it was time to get up a new style of music in the parish, and to give
the charge of it to some more modern performer.

Poor old Dr. Bullfrog knew nothing of this, however, and was doing his simple best, in peace,
when Mother Magpie called in upon him one morning.

"Well, neighbour, how unreasonable people are!  Who would have thought that the youth of our
generation should have no more consideration for established merit?  Now, for my part, I think
your music-teaching never was better; and as for our choir, I maintain constantly that it never
was in better order, but--Well, one may wear her tongue out, but one can never make these young
folks listen to reason."

"I really don't understand you, ma'am," said poor Dr. Bullfrog.

"What! you haven't heard of a committee that is going to call on you, to ask you to resign
the care of the parish music?"

"Madam," said Dr. Bullfrog, with all that energy of tone for which he was remarkable, "I don't
believe it,--I CAN'T believe it.  You must have made a mistake."

"I mistake!  No, no, my good friend; I never make mistakes.  What I know, I know certainly.
Wasn't it I that said I knew there was an engagement between Tim Chipmunk and Nancy Nibble,
who are married this very day?  I knew that thing six weeks before any bird or beast in our
parts; and I can tell you, you are going to be scandalously and ungratefully treated, Dr. Bullfrog."

"Bless me, we shall all be ruined!" said Mrs. Bullfrog; "my poor husband--"

"Oh, as to that, if you take things in time, and listen to my advice," said Mother Magpie,
"we may yet pull you through.  You must alter your style a little,--adapt it to modern times.
Everybody now is a little touched with the operatic fever, and there's Tommy Oriole has been
to New Orleans and brought back a touch of the artistic.  If you would try his style a little,--something
Tyrolean, you see."

"Dear madam, consider my voice.  I never could hit the high notes."

"How do you know?  It's all practice; Tommy Oriole says so.  Just try the scales.  As to your
voice, your manner of living has a great deal to do with it.  I always did tell you that your
passion for water injured your singing.  Suppose Tommy Oriole should sit half his days up to
his hips in water, as you do,--his voice would be as hoarse and rough as yours.  Come up on
the bank and learn to perch, as we birds do.  We are the true musical race."

And so poor Mr. Bullfrog was persuaded to forego his pleasant little cottage under the cat-tails,
where his green spectacles and honest round back had excited, even in the minds of the boys,
sentiments of respect and compassion.  He came up into the garden, and established himself
under a burdock, and began to practise Italian scales.

The result was, that poor old Dr. Bullfrog, instead of being considered as a respectable old
bore, got himself universally laughed at for aping fashionable manners.  Every bird and beast
in the forest had a gibe at him; and even old Parson Too-Whit thought it worth his while to
make him a pastoral call, and admonish him about courses unbefitting his age and standing.
As to Mother Magpie, you may be sure that she assured every one how sorry she was that dear
old Dr. Bullfrog had made such a fool of himself; if he had taken her advice, he would have
kept on respectably as a nice old Bullfrog should.

But the tragedy for the poor old music-teacher grew even more melancholy in its termination;
for one day, as he was sitting disconsolately under a currant-bush in the garden, practising
his poor old notes in a quiet way, THUMP came a great blow of a hoe, which nearly broke his back.

"Hallo! what ugly beast have we got here?" said Tom Noakes, the gardener's boy.  "Here, here,
Wasp, my boy."

What a fright for a poor, quiet, old Bullfrog, as little wiry, wicked Wasp came at him, barking
and yelping.  He jumped with all his force sheer over a patch of bushes into the river, and
swam back to his old home among the cat-tails.  And always after that it was observable that
he was very low-spirited, and took very dark views of life; but nothing made him so angry as
any allusion to Mother Magpie, of whom, from that time, he never spoke except as OLD MOTHER
MISCHIEF.

THE SQUIRRELS THAT LIVE IN A HOUSE

Once upon a time a gentleman went out into a great forest, and cut away the trees, and built
there a very nice little cottage.  It was set very low on the ground, and had very large bow-windows,
and so much of it was glass that one could look through it on every side and see what was going
on in the forest.  You could see the shadows of the fern-leaves, as they flickered and wavered
over the ground, and the scarlet partridge-berry and winter-green plums that matted round the
roots of the trees, and the bright spots of sunshine that fell through their branches and went
dancing about among the bushes and leaves at their roots.  You could see the chirping sparrows
and the thrushes and robins and bluebirds building their nests here and there among the branches,
and watch them from day to day as they laid their eggs and hatched their young.  You could
also see red squirrels, and gray squirrels, and little striped chip-squirrels, darting and
springing about, here and there and everywhere, running races with each other from bough to
bough, and chattering at each other in the gayest possible manner.

You may be sure that such a strange thing as a house for human beings to live in did not come
into this wild wood without making quite a stir and excitement among the inhabitants that lived
there before. All the time it was building, there was the greatest possible commotion in the
breasts of all the older population; and there wasn't even a black ant, or a cricket, that
did not have his own opinion about it, and did not tell the other ants and crickets just what
he thought the world was coming to in consequence.

Old Mrs. Rabbit declared that the hammering and pounding made her nervous, and gave her most
melancholy forebodings of evil times. "Depend upon it, children," she said to her long-eared
family, "no good will come to us from this establishment.  Where man is, there comes always
trouble for us poor rabbits."

The old chestnut-tree, that grew on the edge of the woodland ravine, drew a great sigh which
shook all his leaves, and expressed it as his conviction that no good would ever come of it,--a
conviction that at once struck to the heart of every chestnut-burr.  The squirrels talked together
of the dreadful state of things that would ensue. "Why!" said old Father Gray, "it's evident
that Nature made the nuts for us; but one of these great human creatures will carry off and
gormandize upon what would keep a hundred poor families of squirrels in comfort."  Old Ground-mole
said it did not require very sharp eyes to see into the future, and it would just end in bringing
down the price of real estate in the whole vicinity, so that every decent- minded and respectable
quadruped would be obliged to move away;--for his part, he was ready to sell out for anything
he could get.  The bluebirds and bobolinks, it is true, took more cheerful views of matters;
but then, as old Mrs. Ground-mole observed, they were a flighty set,--half their time careering
and dissipating in the Southern States,--and could not be expected to have that patriotic attachment
to their native soil that those had who had grubbed in it from their earliest days.

"This race of man," said the old chestnut-tree, "is never ceasing in its restless warfare on
Nature.  In our forest solitudes hitherto how peacefully, how quietly, how regularly has everything
gone on!  Not a flower has missed its appointed time of blossoming, or failed to perfect its
fruit.  No matter how hard has been the winter, how loud the winds have roared, and how high
the snow-banks have been piled, all has come right again in spring.  Not the least root has
lost itself under the snows, so as not to be ready with its fresh leaves and blossoms when
the sun returns to melt the frosty chains of winter.  We have storms sometimes that threaten
to shake everything to pieces,--the thunder roars, the lightning flashes, and the winds howl
and beat; but, when all is past, everything comes out better and brighter than before,--not
a bird is killed, not the frailest flower destroyed.  But man comes, and in one day he will
make a desolation that centuries cannot repair.  Ignorant boor that he is, and all incapable
of appreciating the glorious works of Nature, it seems to be his glory to be able to destroy
in a few hours what it was the work of ages to produce.  The noble oak, that has been cut away
to build this contemptible human dwelling, had a life older and wiser than that of any man
in this country.  That tree has seen generations of men come and go.  It was a fresh young
tree when Shakespeare was born; it was hardly a middle-aged tree when he died; it was growing
here when the first ship brought the white men to our shores, and hundreds and hundreds of
those whom they call bravest, wisest, strongest,--warriors, statesmen, orators, and poets,--have
been born, have grown up, lived, and died, while yet it has outlived them all. It has seen
more wisdom than the best of them; but two or three hours of brutal strength sufficed to lay
it low.  Which of these dolts could make a tree?  I'd like to see them do anything like it.
How noisy and clumsy are all their movements,--chopping, pounding, rasping, hammering.  And,
after all, what do they build?  In the forest we do everything so quietly.  A tree would be
ashamed of itself that could not get its growth without making such a noise and dust and fuss.
Our life is the perfection of good manners.  For my part, I feel degraded at the mere presence
of these human beings; but, alas! I am old; a hollow place at my heart warns me of the progress
of decay, and probably it will be seized upon by these rapacious creatures as an excuse for
laying me as low as my noble green brother."

In spite of all this disquiet about it, the little cottage grew and was finished.  The walls
were covered with pretty paper, the floors carpeted with pretty carpets; and, in fact, when
it was all arranged, and the garden walks laid out, and beds of flowers planted around, it
began to be confessed, even among the most critical, that it was not after all so bad a thing
as was to have been feared.

A black ant went in one day and made a tour of exploration up and down, over chairs and tables,
up the ceilings and down again, and, coming out, wrote an article for the Crickets' Gazette,
in which he described the new abode as a veritable palace.  Several butterflies fluttered in
and sailed about and were wonderfully delighted, and then a bumble-bee and two or three honey-bees,
who expressed themselves well pleased with the house, but more especially enchanted with the
garden.  In fact, when it was found that the proprietors were very fond of the rural solitudes
of Nature, and had come out there for the purpose of enjoying them undisturbed; that they watched
and spared the anemones, and the violets, and bloodroots, and dog's- tooth violets, and little
woolly rolls of fern that began to grow up under the trees in spring; that they never allowed
a gun to be fired to scare the birds, and watched the building of their nests with the greatest
interest,--then an opinion in favour of human beings began to gain ground, and every cricket
and bird and beast was loud in their praise.

"Mamma," said young Tit-bit, a frisky young squirrel, to his mother one day, "why won't you
let Frisky and me go into that pretty new cottage to play?"

"My dear," said his mother, who was a very wary and careful old squirrel, "how can you think
of it?  The race of man are full of devices for traps and pitfalls, and who could say what
might happen if you put yourself in their power?  If you had wings like the butterflies and
bees, you might fly in and out again, and so gratify your curiosity; but, as matters stand,
it's best for you to keep well out of their way."

"But, mother, there is such a nice, good lady lives there!  I believe she is a good fairy,
and she seems to love us all so; she sits in the bow-window and watches us for hours, and she
scatters corn all round at the roots of the tree for us to eat."

"She is nice enough," said the old mother-squirrel, "if you keep far enough off; but I tell
you, you can't be too careful."

Now this good fairy that the squirrels discoursed about was a nice little old lady that the
children used to call Aunt Esther, and she was a dear lover of birds and squirrels, and all
sorts of animals, and had studied their little ways till she knew just what would please them;
and so she would every day throw out crumbs for the sparrows, and little bits of bread and
wool and cotton to help the birds that were building their nests, and would scatter corn and
nuts for the squirrels; and while she sat at her work in the bow-window she would smile to
see the birds flying away with the wool, and the squirrels nibbling their nuts.  After a while
the birds grew so tame that they would hop into the bow-window and eat their crumbs off the carpet.

"There, mamma," said Tit-bit and Frisky, "only see Jenny Wren and Cock Robin have been in at
the bow-window, and it didn't hurt them, and why can't we go?"

"Well, my dears," said old Mother Squirrel, "you must do it very carefully; never forget that
you haven't wings like Jenny Wren and Cock Robin."

So the next day Aunt Esther laid a train of corn from the roots of the trees to the bow-window,
and then from the bow-window to her work-basket, which stood on the floor beside her; and then
she put quite a handful of corn in the work-basket, and sat down by it, and seemed intent on
her sewing.  Very soon, creep, creep, creep, came Tit-bit and Frisky to the window, and then
into the room, just as sly and as still as could be, and Aunt Esther sat just like a statue
for fear of disturbing them.  They looked all around in high glee, and when they came to the
basket it seemed to them a wonderful little summer-house, made on purpose for them to play
in.  They nosed about in it, and turned over the scissors and the needle-book, and took a nibble
at her white wax, and jostled the spools, meanwhile stowing away the corn on each side of their
little chops, till they both of them looked as if they had the mumps.

At last Aunt Esther put out her hand to touch them, when, whisk- frisk, out they went, and
up the trees, chattering and laughing before she had time even to wink.

But after this they used to come in every day, and when she put corn in her hand and held it
very still they would eat out of it; and finally they would get into her hand, until one day
she gently closed it over them, and Frisky and Tit-bit were fairly caught.

Oh, how their hearts beat! but the good fairy only spoke gently to them, and soon unclosed
her hand and let them go again.  So day after day they grew to have more and more faith in
her, till they would climb into her work-basket, sit on her shoulder, or nestle away in her
lap as she sat sewing.  They made also long exploring voyages all over the house, up and through
all the chambers, till finally, I grieve to say, poor Frisky came to an untimely end by being
drowned in the water-tank at the top of the house.

The dear good fairy passed away from the house in time, and went to a land where the flowers
never fade and the birds never die; but the squirrels still continue to make the place a favourite
resort.

"In fact, my dear," said old Mother Red one winter to her mate, "what is the use of one's living
in this cold, hollow tree, when these amiable people have erected this pretty cottage, where
there is plenty of room for us and them too?  Now I have examined between the eaves, and there
is a charming place where we can store our nuts, and where we can whip in and out of the garret,
and have the free range of the house; and, say what you will, these humans have delightful
ways of being warm and comfortable in winter."

So Mr. and Mrs. Red set up housekeeping in the cottage, and had no end of nuts and other good
things stored up there.  The trouble of all this was, that, as Mrs. Red was a notable body,
and got up to begin her housekeeping operations, and woke up all her children, at four o'clock
in the morning, the good people often were disturbed by a great rattling and fuss in the walls,
while yet it seemed dark night.  Then sometimes, too, I grieve to say, Mrs. Squirrel would
give her husband vigorous curtain lectures in the night, which made him so indignant that he
would rattle off to another quarter of the garret to sleep by himself; and all this broke the
rest of the worthy people who built the house.

What is to be done about this we don't know.  What would you do about it?  Would you let the
squirrels live in your house or not?  When our good people come down of a cold winter morning,
and see the squirrels dancing and frisking down the trees, and chasing each other so merrily
over the garden chair between them, or sitting with their tails saucily over their backs, they
look so jolly and jaunty and pretty that they almost forgive them for disturbing their night's
rest, and think that they will not do anything to drive them out of the garret to-day.  And
so it goes on; but how long the squirrels will rent the cottage in this fashion, I'm sure I
dare not undertake to say.

HUM, THE SON OF BUZ

At Rye Beach, during our summer's vacation, there came, as there always will to seaside visitors,
two or three cold, chilly, rainy days,--days when the skies that long had not rained a drop
seemed suddenly to bethink themselves of their remissness, and to pour down water, not by drops,
but by pailfuls.  The chilly wind blew and whistled, the water dashed along the ground and
careered in foamy rills along the roadside, and the bushes bent beneath the constant flood.
It was plain that there was to be no sea-bathing on such a day, no walks, no rides; and so,
shivering and drawing our blanket- shawls close about us, we sat down at the window to watch
the storm outside.

The rose-bushes under the window hung dripping under their load of moisture, each spray shedding
a constant shower on the spray below it.  On one of these lower sprays, under the perpetual
drip, what should we see but a poor little humming-bird, drawn up into the tiniest shivering
ball, and clinging with a desperate grasp to his uncomfortable perch.  A humming-bird we knew
him to be at once, though his feathers were so matted and glued down by the rain that he looked
not much bigger than a honey-bee, and as different as possible from the smart, pert, airy little
character that we had so often seen flirting with the flowers.  He was evidently a humming-bird
in adversity, and whether he ever would hum again looked to us exceedingly doubtful.  Immediately,
however, we sent out to have him taken in.  When the friendly hand seized him, he gave a little,
faint, watery squeak, evidently thinking that his last hour was come, and that grim death was
about to carry him off to the land of dead birds.  What a time we had reviving him,--holding
the little wet thing in the warm hollow of our hands, and feeling him shiver and palpitate!
His eyes were fast closed; his tiny claws, which looked slender as cobwebs, were knotted close
to his body, and it was long before one could feel the least motion in them.  Finally, to our
great joy, we felt a brisk little kick, and then a flutter of wings, and then a determined
peck of the beak, which showed that there was sonic bird left in him yet, and that he meant
at any rate to find out where he was.

Unclosing our hands a small space, out popped the little head with a pair of round brilliant
eyes.  Then we bethought ourselves of feeding him, and forthwith prepared him a stiff glass
of sugar and water, a drop of which we held to his bill.  After turning his head attentively,
like a bird who knew what he was about and didn't mean to be chaffed, he briskly put out a
long, flexible tongue, slightly forked at the end, and licked off the comfortable beverage
with great relish.  Immediately he was pronounced out of danger by the small humane society
which had undertaken the charge of his restoration, and we began to cast about for getting
him a settled establishment in our apartment.  I gave up my work-box to him for a sleeping-room,
and it was medically ordered that he should take a nap.  So we filled the box with cotton,
and he was formally put to bed, with a folded cambric handkerchief round his neck, to keep
him from beating his wings.  Out of his white wrappings he looked forth green and grave as
any judge with his bright round eyes.  Like a bird of discretion, he seemed to understand what
was being done to him, and resigned himself sensibly to go to sleep.

The box was covered with a sheet of paper perforated with holes for purposes of ventilation;
for even humming-birds have a little pair of lungs, and need their own little portion of air
to fill them, so that they may make bright scarlet little drops of blood to keep life's fire
burning in their tiny bodies.  Our bird's lungs manufactured brilliant blood, as we found out
by experience; for in his first nap he contrived to nestle himself into the cotton of which
his bed was made, and to get more of it than he needed into his long bill.  We pulled it out
as carefully as we could, but there came out of his bill two round, bright scarlet, little
drops of blood.  Our chief medical authority looked grave, pronounced a probable hemorrhage
from the lungs, and gave him over at once.  We, less scientific, declared that we had only
cut his little tongue by drawing out the filaments of cotton, and that he would do well enough
in time,--as it afterwards appeared he did, for from that day there was no more bleeding. 
In the course of the second day he began to take short flights about the room, though he seemed
to prefer to return to us; perching on our fingers or heads or shoulders, and sometimes choosing
to sit in this way for half an hour at a time.  "These great giants," he seemed to say to himself,
"are not bad people after all; they have a comfortable way with them; how nicely they dried
and warmed me! Truly a bird might do worse than to live with them."

So he made up his mind to form a fourth in the little company of three that usually sat and
read, worked and sketched, in that apartment, and we christened him "Hum, the son of Buz."
He became an individuality, a character, whose little doings formed a part of every letter,
and some extracts from these will show what some of his little ways were:-

