I have had to write it hastily during a short period of leave. Yet it touches upon great subjects
which deserve the reverence of leisurely writing. Ought I not, then, to have waited for the
leisure of days after the war? I think not. Such days may never come. And, in any case, now
is the time for the Church to think intently about the war and its issues, and to learn from
them. The Church is far more than a department of 'the services,' the resources of which it
is convenient to mobilise as so much more munition of war. She is the perpetual protagonist
in the world of the Kingdom of God. War for her, if for nobody else, should be an apocalypse,
that is, a vision of realities for which at all times she is bound to fight, of which, nevertheless,
she is apt to lose sight during the engrossments of peace. It is as lit up by the cruel light
of war's conflagrations that the things concerning the Kingdom must be seized anew. If anybody
has thoughts which he feels he must share with others, he should not postpone doing so. He
should communicate his thoughts to others in order that he may learn from their comments and
criticism. I can claim, whilst asking pardon for whatever may offend in them, that the thoughts
represented by the following pages have not been come by hastily, but have been growing in
my mind during the long months at the front since the beginning of the war. They have, so to
say, been hammered out as metal upon the anvil of war.

They are thoughts about religion. Nothing is so important as religion; nothing is more potent
than true ideas in religion. Deep fountains of real religion--of simple and unself-prizing
faith--have been unsealed by the convulsion of war. Yet this religion is weak in ideas, and
some of the ideas with which it is bound up are wrong ideas. Men of our race are very sure
that it matters more what a man is than what he thinks. British religion is deep and rich,
but it is, characteristically, deeper and richer in what it is than in what it knows itself
to be. It sorely needs a mind of strong and compelling conviction. If these pages were to help
ever so few readers towards being possessed anew of the truth of the Gospel of God in Christ,
their appearance would be justified.

I have written, perhaps, as one who dreads saying 'Peace, where there is no peace.' I would
rather err on the side of emphasising criticism and difficulty than the other way. There is,
indeed, little room for complacency in a Christian, still less in an English Churchman, at
the front. Yet in 'padres' hope and expectation should predominate, and these as based less
upon results achieved than upon the mutual understanding, respect, and indeed affection which
increasingly unite them to the men whom they would serve. And in them, too, if they are 'C.
of E.,' there should be growing, along with an unevasive discontent, a sanguine loyalty to
their mother Church. For all that she now means so little to so many she will yet win a more
than nominal allegiance from many of her wandering children. For there is in her, beneath the
surface of her sluggish confusion, a living heart and candid mind, upon which is being written
afresh the good news in Christ. She is being vivified, as perhaps no other part of Christendom,
into readiness for the future.

N.S.T.

B.E.F., November 1916. With the flower of British manhood massed in the Army this and like
questions are bound to arise--How is it with the men? Where are they religiously? What do they
want? What will they need when they return? and so forth. There never has been such an opportunity
of taking a comparative view of British Christianity and of framing answers to such questions.
Perhaps those who are working as chaplains at the front are especially challenged to attempt
these tasks. Their answer must not be loose or sentimental. There is a danger of that. The
emotions aroused by the war may encourage sentimental verdicts. That may be the reason why
a good many ideas which are current at home about religion at the front, are a good distance
removed from reality.

II

I can only venture upon a verdict after first acknowledging that it is inseparably bound up
with my own shortcomings. Other men of a truer devotion and love may well have grounds in a
more effective ministry for challenging and amplifying it.

Further, I have to ask that allowance be made for the fact that men like myself, who have been
working as 'C. of E.' chaplains, are not very well qualified to speak about the religion of
the men. There is something wrong about the status of chaplains. They belong to what the author
of A Student in Arms calls 'the super-world' of officers, which as such is separate from the
men. As a class we find it hard to penetrate the surface of the men--that surface which we
can almost see thrust out at us like a shield, in the suddenly assumed rigidity of men as they
salute us. We are in an unchristian position, in the sense that we are in a position which
Christ would not have occupied. He, I am sure, would have been a regimental stretcher-bearer,
truly among and of the men. We are very unlike Him. We are often liked, and are thought good
fellows, but we are unlike Him and miss what He could discover. Our--my--verdict is not necessarily
His.

Lastly, all verdicts must be rough in war. The nature of war and of its effects often precludes
any one from knowing exactly what is going on in the souls of men. War is a muddy business,
encasing the body in dirt, and caking over the soul. It forms hard surfaces over the centres
of sensitiveness. It is benumbing to spiritual faculties. That is nature's way of accommodation
with war's environment. To feel things much would literally be maddening. To brood about danger,
to apprehend or anticipate or philosophise may imperil 'nerve.' Rather the majority of men
carry on, callously, almost gaily, with mental and spiritual faculties if possible inactive.
I have met an entirely devout lover of music (since killed in action) who told me that he didn't
miss music out here because "he wasn't carrying on with those faculties." I have seen a man
of indubitable Christian conviction come down from the cold clam of the trenches in mid-winter
and take up a religious book which ordinarily would have excited him and say--"Ah! yes, there
is all that." I could almost see the surface which war had hardened over him. Beneath it in
him and all the rest, who knows what may not be in process, ready to emerge when they can bathe
in the solvent waters of peace?

Meanwhile they 'carry on.' That I think is especially congenial to the British. There is no
doubt that men of our race have an invincibility, which is due in part to the fact that they
do not think about or feel what is really going on. To be practically and sensually occupied
with the passing moment is the way to carry on in war. It is characteristic of our men. They
are remarkably void of apprehension in every sense of the word. Had the rank and file who fought
the first battle of Ypres--when the whole of the British forces came to be strung out from
Ypres to La Bassée in one line without a reserve--formed a general apprehension of and as to
their position, they would have been 'rattled' and broken. They were not beaten, in part because
they did not think of being beaten. "You can't," as they sing, "beat the boys of the bull-dog
breed," but this invincibility has not altogether the virtue of facts understood, faced, and
triumphed over. In short, British qualities and defects of qualities are closely interwoven.
But my point is, that this being so, any verdict about what is going on in British souls during
a war must be humble and tentative and patient of qualification.

III

