Being as free as air on this occasion (if I except the dread of Benella's scorn, which descends
upon us now and then, and moves us to repentance, sometimes even to better behaviour), we passed
Porridgetown and Cloomore, and ferried across to the opposite side of Lough Corrib. Salemina,
of course, had fixed upon Cong as our objective point, because of its caverns and archaeological
remains, which Dr. La Touche tells her not on any account to miss. Francesca and I said nothing,
but we had a very definite idea of avoiding Cong, and going nearer Tuam, to climb Knockma,
the hill of the fairies, and explore their ancient haunts and archaeological remains, which
are more in our line than the caverns of Cong.

Speaking of Dr. La Touche reminds me that we have not the smallest notion as to how our middle-aged
romance is progressing. Absence may, at this juncture, be just as helpful a force in its development
as daily intercourse would be; for when one is past thirty, I fancy there is a deal of 'thinking-it-over'
to do. Precious little there is when we are younger; heart does it all then, and never asks
head's advice! But in too much delay there lies no plenty, and there's the danger. Actually,
Francesca and I could be no more anxious to settle Salemina in life if she were lame, halt,
blind, and homeless, instead of being attractive, charming, absurdly young for her age, and
not without means. The difficulty is that she is one of those 'continent, persisting, immovable
persons' whom Emerson describes as marked out for the blessing of the world. That quality always
makes a man anxious. He fears that he may only get his rightful share of blessing, and he craves
the whole output, so to speak.

We naturally mention Dr. La Touche very often, since he is always writing to Salemina or to
me, offering counsel and suggestion. Madame La Touche, the venerable aunt, has written also,
asking us to visit them in Meath; but this invitation we have declined, principally because
the Colquhouns will be with them, and they would surely be burdened by the addition of three
ladies and a maid to their family; partly because we shall be freer in our own house, which
will be as near the La Touche mansion as possible, you may be sure, if Francesca and I have
anything to do with choosing it.

The La Touche name, then, is often on our lips, but Salemina offers no intimation that it is
indelibly imprinted on her heart of hearts. It is a good name to be written anywhere, and we
fancied there was the slightest possible hint of pride and possession in Salemina's voice when
she read to us to-night, from her third volume of Lecky's History of Ireland in the Eighteenth
Century, a paragraph concerning one David La Touche, from whom Dr. Gerald is descended:--

'In the last of the Irish Parliaments no less than five members of the name sat together in
the House of Commons, and his family may claim what is in truth the highest honour of which
an Irish family can boast,--that during many successive governments, and in a period of most
lavish corruption, it possessed great parliamentary influence, and yet passed through political
life untitled and unstained.'

There is just the faintest gleam of hope, by the way, that Himself may join us at the very
end of June, and he is sure to be helpful on this sentimental journey; he aided Ronald and
Francesca more than once in their tempestuous love-affair, and if his wits are not dulled by
marriage, as so often happens, he will be invaluable. It will not be long then, probably, before
I assume my natural, my secondary position in the landscape of events. The junior partners
are now, so to speak, on their legs, although it is idle to suppose that such brittle appendages
will support them for any length of time. As soon as we return in the autumn I should like
to advertise (if Himself will permit me) for a perfectly sound and kind junior partner,--one
who has been well broken to harness, and who will neither shy nor balk, no matter what the
provocation; the next step being to urge Himself to relinquish altogether the bondage of business
care. There is no need of his continuing in it, since other people's business will always give
him ample scope for his energies. He has, since his return to America, dispensed justice and
mercy, chiefly mercy, to one embezzler, one honest fellow tempted beyond his strength, one
widow, one unfortunate friend of his youth, and two orphans, and it was in no sense an extraordinary
season.

To return to notes of travel, our method of progression, since we deserted the high-road and
the public car, has been strangely varied. I think there is no manner of steed or vehicle which
has not been used by us, at one time or another, even to the arch donkey and the low-backed
car with its truss of hay, like that of the immortal Peggy. I thought at first that 'arch'
was an unusual adjective to apply to a donkey, but I find after all that it is abundantly expressive.
Benella, who disapproves entirely of this casual sort of travelling, far from 'answerable roads'
and in 'backwards places' (Irish for 'behind the times'), is yet wonderfully successful in
discovering equipages of some sort in unlikely spots.

In towns of any size or pretensions, we find by the town cross or near the inn a motley collection
of things on wheels, with drivers sometimes as sober as Father Mathew, sometimes not. Yesterday
we had a mare which the driver confessed he bought without 'overcircumspectin' it,' and although
you couldn't, as he said, 'extinguish her at first sight from a grand throtter, she hadn't
rightly the speed you could wish.'

"It's not so powerful young she is, melady!" he confessed. "You'd be afther lookin' at a chicken
a long time and niver be reminded of her; but sure ye might thry her, for belike ye wouldn't
fancy a horse that would be leppin' stone walls wid ye, like Dan Ryan's there! My little baste'll
get ye to Rossan before night, and she won't hurt man nor mortial in doin' it."

"Begorra, you're right, nor herself nayther," said Dan Ryan; "and if it's leppin' ye mane,
sure she couldn't lep a sod o' turf, that mare couldn't! God pardon ye, melady, for thrustin'
yerself to that paiceable, brindly-coloured ould hin, whin ye might be gettin' a dacint, high-steppin'
horse for a shillin' or two more; an' belike I might contint meself to take less, for I wouldn't
be extortin' ye like Barney O'Mara there!"

Our chosen driver replied to this by saying that he wouldn't be caught dead at a pig fair with
Dan Ryan's horse, but in the midst of all the distracting discussions and arguments that followed
we held to our original bargain; for we did not like the look of Dan Ryan's high-stepper, who
was a 'thrifle mounTAIny,' as they say in these parts, and had a wild eye to boot. We started,
and in a half-hour we could still see the chapel spire of the little village we had just left.
It was for once a beautiful day, but we felt that we must reach a railway station some time
or other, in order to find a place to sleep.

"Can't you make her go a bit faster? Do you want to keep us on the road all night?" inquired
Francesca.

"I do not, your ladyship's honour, ma'am."

"Is she tired, or doesn't she ever go any better?" urged Salemina.

"She does; it's God's truth I'm tellin' ye, melady, she's that flippant sometimes that I scarcely
can hould her, and the car jumps undher her like a spring bed."

"Then what on earth IS the matter with her?" I inquired, with some fire in my eye.

"Sure I believe she's takin' time to think of the iligant load she's carryin', melady, and
small blame to her!" said Mr. Barney O'Mara; and after that we let him drive as best he could,
although it did take us four hours to do nine Irish miles. He came, did Mr. Barney, from County
Armagh, and he beguiled the way with interesting tales from that section of Ireland, one of
which, 'the Old Crow and the Young Crow,' particularly took our fancies.

"An old crow was teaching a young crow one day, and says to him, 'Now, my son,' says he, 'listen
to the advice I'm going to give you,' says he. 'If you see a person coming near you and stooping,
mind yourself, and be on your keeping; he's stooping for a stone to throw at you,' says he.

"'But tell me,' says the young crow, 'what should I do if he had a stone already down in his
pocket?' says he.

"'Musha, go 'long out of that,' says the old crow, 'you've learned enough; the divil another
learning I'm able to give you.'"

He was a perfect honey-pot of useless and unreliable information, was Barney O'Mara, and most
learned in fairy lore; but for that matter, all the people walking along the road, the drivers,
the boatman and guides, the men and women in the cottages where we stop in a shower or to inquire
the way, relate stories of phookas, leprehauns, and sprites, banshees and all the various classes
of elves and fays, as simply and seriously as they would speak of any other occurrences. Barney
told us gravely of the old woman who was in the habit of laying pishogues (charms) to break
the legs of his neighbour's cattle, because of an ancient grudge she bore him; and also how
necessary it is to put a bit of burning turf under the churn to prevent the phookas, or mischievous
fairies, from abstracting the butter or spoiling the churning in any way. Irish fays seem to
be much interested in dairy matters, for, besides the sprites who delight in distracting the
cream and keeping back the butter (I wonder if a lazy up-and-down movement of the dasher invites
them at all, at all?), it is well known that many a milkmaid on a May morning has seen fairy
cows browsing along the banks of lakes,--cows that vanish into thin mist at the sound of human
footfall.

When we were quite cross at missing the noon train from Rossan, quite tired of the car's jolting,
somewhat vexed even at the mare's continued enjoyment of her 'iligant load,' Barney appeased
us all by singing, in a delightful, mellow voice, a fairy song called the 'Leprehaun,' [*]
This personage, you must know, if you haven't a large acquaintance among Irish fairies, is
a tricksy fellow in a green coat and scarlet cap, with brave shoe buckles on his wee brogues.
You will catch him sometimes, if the 'glamour' is on you, under a burdock leaf or a thorn bush,
and he is always making or mending a shoe. He commonly has a little purse about him, which,
if you are quick enough, you can snatch; and a wonderful purse it is, for whatever you spend,
there is always money to be found in it. Truth to tell, nobody has yet succeeded in being quicker
than Master Leprehaun, though many have offered to fill his cruiskeen with 'mountain dew,'
of which Irish fairies are passionately fond.

            * By Patrick W. Joyce.

     'In a shady nook, one moonlight night,
        A leprehaun I spied;
      With scarlet cap and coat of green,
        A cruiskeen by his side.
      'Twas tick, tack, tick, his hammer went,
        Upon a weeny shoe;
      And I laughed to think of his purse of gold;
        But the fairy was laughing too!

      With tip-toe step and beating heart,
        Quite softly I drew nigh:
      There was mischief in his merry face,
        A twinkle in his eye.
      He hammered, and sang with tiny voice,
        And drank his mountain dew;
      And I laughed to think he was caught at last;
        But the fairy was laughing too!

      As quick as thought I seized the elf.
        "Your fairy purse!" I cried.
      "The purse!" he said--"'tis in her hand--
        That lady at your side."
      I turned to look:  the elf was off.
        Then what was I to do?
      O, I laughed to think what a fool I'd been;
        And the fairy was laughing too!'

I cannot communicate any idea of the rollicking gaiety and quaint charm Barney gave to the
tune, nor the light-hearted, irresistible chuckle with which he rendered the last two lines,
giving a snap of his whip as accent to the long 'O':--

     'O, I laughed to think what a fool I'd been;
        And the fairy was laughing too!'

After he had sung it twice through, Benella took my guitar from its case for me, and we sang
it after him, again and again; so it was in happy fashion that we at least approached Ballyrossan,
where we bade Barney O'Mara a cordial farewell, paying him four shillings over his fare, which
was cheap indeed for the song.

As we saw him vanish slowly up the road, ragged himself, the car and harness almost ready to
drop to pieces, the mare, I am sure, in the last week of her existence, we were glad that he
had his Celtic fancy to enliven his life a bit,--that fancy which seems a providential reaction
against the cruel despotisms of fact.

Chapter XXV. The wee folk.

     'There sings a bonnie linnet
        Up the heather glen;
      The voice has magic in it
        Too sweet for mortal men!
      Sing O, the blooming heather,
        O, the heather glen!
      Where fairest fairies gather
        To lure in mortal men.'

                                Carrig-a-fooka Inn, near Knockma,
                                   On the shores of Lough Corrib.

A modern Irish poet [*] says something that Francesca has quoted to Ronald in her letter to-day,
and we await from Scotland his confirmation or denial. He accuses the Scots of having discovered
the fairies to be pagan and wicked, and of denouncing them from the pulpits, whereas Irish
priests discuss with them the state of their souls; or at least they did, until it was decided
that they had none, but would dry up like so much bright vapour at the last day. It was more
in sadness than in anger that the priests announced this fiat; for Irish sprites and goblins
do gay, graceful, and humorous things, for the most part, tricksy sins, not deserving annihilation,
whereas Scottish fays are sometimes malevolent,--or so says the Irish poet.

     * W. B. Yeats.

This is very sad, no doubt, but it does not begin to be as sad as having no fairies at all.
There must have been a few in England in Shakespeare's time, or he could never have written
The Tempest or the Midsummer Night's Dream; but where have they vanished?

As for us in America, I fear that we never have had any 'wee folk.' The Indians had their woodland
spirits, spirits of rocks, trees, mountains, star and moon maidens; the negroes had their enchanted
animals and conjure men; but as for real wee folk, either they were not indigenous to the soil
or else we unconsciously drove them away. Yet we had facilities to offer! The columbines, harebells,
and fringed gentians would have been just as cosy and secluded places to live in as the Irish
foxgloves, which are simply running over with fairies. Perhaps they wouldn't have liked our
cold winters; still it must have been something more than climate, and I am afraid I know the
reason well--we are too sensible; and if there is anything a fairy detests, it is common-sense.
We are too rich, also; and a second thing that a fairy abhors is the chink of dollars. Perhaps,
when I am again enjoying the advantages brought about by sound money, commercial prosperity,
and a magnificent system of public education, I shall feel differently about it; but for the
moment I am just a bit embarrassed and crestfallen to belong to a nation absolutely shunned
by the fairies. If they had only settled among us like other colonists, shaped us to their
ends as far as they could, and, when they couldn't, conformed themselves to ours, there might
have been, by this time, fairy trusts stretching out benign arms all over the continent.

Of course it is an age of incredulity, but Salemina, Francesca, and I have not come to Ireland
to scoff, and whatever we do we shall not go to the length of doubting the fairies; for, as
Barney O'Mara says, 'they stand to raison.'

Glen Ailna is a 'gentle' place near Carrig-a-fooka Inn--that is, one beloved by the sheehogues;
and though you may be never so much interested, I may not tell you its exact whereabouts, since
no one can ever find it unless he is himself under the glamour. Perhaps you might be a doubter,
with no eyes for the 'dim kingdom'; perhaps you might gaze for ever, and never be able to see
a red-capped fiddler, fiddling under a blossoming sloe bush. You might even see him, and then
indulge yourself in a fit of common-sense or doubt of your own eyes, in which case the wee
dancers would never flock to the sound of the fiddle or gather on the fairy ring. This is the
reason that I shall never take you to Knockma, to Glen Ailna, or especially to the hyacinth
wood, which is a little plantation near the ruin of a fort. Just why the fairies are so fond
of an old rath or lis I cannot imagine, for you would never suppose that antiquaries, archaeologists,
and wee folk would care for the same places.

I have no intention of interviewing the grander personages among the Irish fairies, for they
are known to be haughty, unapproachable, and severe, as befits the descendants of the great
Nature Gods and the under-deities of flood and fell and angry sea. It is the lesser folk, the
gay, gracious, little men that I wish to meet; those who pipe and dance on the fairy ring.
The 'ring' is made, you know, by the tiny feet that have tripped for ages and ages, flying,
dancing, circling, over the tender young grass. Rain cannot wash it away; you may walk over
it; you may even plough up the soil, and replant it ever so many times; the next season the
fairy ring shines in the grass just the same. It seems strange that I am blind to it, when
an ignorant, dirty spalpeen who lives near the foot of Knockma has seen it and heard the fairy
music again and again. He took me to the very place where, last Lammas Eve, he saw plainly--for
there was a beautiful, white moon overhead--the arch king and queen of the fairies, who appear
only on state occasions, together with a crowd of dancers, and more than a dozen pipers piping
melodious music. Not only that, but (lucky little beggar!) he heard distinctly the fulparnee
and the folpornee, the rap-lay-hoota and the roolya-boolya--noises indicative of the very jolliest
and wildest and most uncommon form of fairy conviviality. Failing a glimpse of these midsummer
revels, my next choice would be to see the Elf Horseman galloping round the shores of the Fairy
Lough in the cool of the morn.

     'Loughareema, Loughareema,
        Stars come out and stars are hidin';
      The wather whispers on the stones,
        The flittherin' moths are free.
      Onest before the mornin' light
        The Horseman will come ridin'
      Roun' an' roun' the Fairy Lough,
        An' no one there to see.'

But there will be some one there, and that is the aforesaid Jamesy Flanigan! Sometimes I think
he is fibbing, but a glance at his soft, dark, far-seeing eyes under their fringe of thick
lashes convinces me to the contrary. His field of vision is different from mine, that is all,
and he fears that if I accompany him to the shores of the Fairy Lough the Horseman will not
ride for him; so I am even taunted with undue common-sense by a little Irish gossoon.

I tried to coax Benella to go with me to the hyacinth wood by moonlight. Fairies detest a crowd,
and I ought to have gone alone; but, to tell the truth, I hardly dared, for they have a way
of kidnapping attractive ladies and keeping them for years in the dim kingdom. I would not
trust Himself at Glen Ailna for worlds, for gentlemen are not exempt from danger. Connla of
the Golden Hair was lured away by a fairy maiden, and taken, in a 'gleaming, straight-gliding,
strong, crystal canoe,' to her domain in the hills; and Oisin, you remember, was transported
to the Land of the Ever Youthful by the beautiful Niam. If one could only be sure of coming
back! but Oisin, for instance, was detained three hundred years, so one might not be allowed
to return, and still worse, one might not wish to; three hundred years of youth would tempt--a
woman! My opinion, after reading the Elf Errant, is that one of us has been there--Moira O'Neill.
I should suspect her of being able to wear a fairy cap herself, were it not for the human heart-throb
in her verses; but I am sure she has the glamour whenever she desires it, and hears the fairy
pipes at will.

Benella is of different stuff; she not only distrusts fairies, but, like the Scotch Presbyterians,
she fears that they are wicked. "Still, you say they haven't got immortal souls to save, and
I don't suppose they're responsible for their actions," she allows; "but as for traipsing up
to those heathenish, haunted woods when all Christian folks are in bed, I don't believe in
it, and neither would Mr. Beresford; but if you're set on it, I shall go with you!"

"You wouldn't be of the slightest use," I answered severely; "indeed, you'd be worse than nobody.
The fairies cannot endure doubters; it makes them fold their wings over their heads and shrink
away into their flowercups. I should be mortified beyond words if a fairy should meet me in
your company."

Benella seemed hurt and a trifle resentful as she replied: "That about doubters is just what
Mrs. Kimberly used to say." (Mrs. Kimberly is the Salem priestess, the originator of the 'science.')
"She couldn't talk a mite if there was doubters in the hall; and it's so with spiritualists
and clairvoyants, too--they're all of 'em scare-cats. I guess likely that those that's so afraid
of being doubted has some good reason for it!"

Well, I never went to the hyacinth wood by moonlight, since so many objections were raised,
but I did go once at noonday, the very most unlikely hour of all the twenty-four, and yet--As
I sat there beneath a gnarled thorn, weary and warm with my climb, I looked into the heart
of a bluebell forest growing under a circle of gleaming silver birches, and suddenly I heard
fairy music--at least it was not mortal--and many sounds were mingled in it: the sighing of
birches, the carol of a lark, the leap and laugh of a silvery runnel tumbling down the hillside,
the soft whir of butterflies' wings, and a sweet little over or under tone, from the over or
under world, that I took to be the opening of a million hyacinth buds in the sunshine. Then
I heard the delicious sound of a fairy laugh, and, looking under a swaying branch of meadowsweet,
I saw--yes, I really saw--You must know that first a wee green door swung open in the stem
of the meadowsweet, and out of that land where you can buy joy for a penny came a fairy in
the usual red and green. I had the Elf Errant in my lap, and I think that in itself made him
feel more at home with me, as well as the fact, perhaps, that for the moment I wasn't a bit
sensible and had no money about me. I was all ready with an Irish salutation, for the purposes
of further disarming his aversion. I intended to say, as prettily as possible, though, alas!
I cannot manage the brogue, "And what way do I see you now?" or "Good-mornin' to yer honour's
honour!" But I was struck dumb by my good fortune at seeing him at all. He looked at me once,
and then, flinging up his arms, he gave a weeny, weeny yawn! This was disconcerting, for people
almost never yawn in my company; and to make it worse, he kept on yawning, until, for very
sympathy, and not at all in the way of revenge, I yawned too. Then the green door swung open
again, and a gay rabble of wide-awake fairies came trooping out: and some of them kissed the
hyacinth bells to open them, and some of them flew to the thorn-tree, until every little brancheen
was white with flowers, where but a moment ago had been tightly-closed buds. The yawning fairy
slept meanwhile under the swaying meadowsweet, and the butterflies fanned him with their soft
wings; but, alas! it could not have been the hour for dancing on the fairy ring, nor the proper
time for the fairy pipers, and long, long as I looked I saw and heard nothing more than what
I have told you. Indeed, I presently lost even that, for a bee buzzed, a white petal dropped
from the thorn-tree on my face, there was a scraping of tiny claws and the sound of two squirrels
barking love to each other in the high branches, and in that moment the glamour that was upon
me vanished in a twinkling.

"But I really did see the fairies!" I exclaimed triumphantly to Benella the doubter, when I
returned Carrig-a-fooka Inn, much too late for luncheon.

"I want to know!" she exclaimed, in her New England vernacular. "I guess by the looks o' your
eyes they didn't turn out to be very lively comp'ny!"

Part Fifth--Royal Meath.

Chapter XXVI. Ireland's gold.

     'I sat upon the rustic seat--
        The seat an aged bay-tree crowns--
      And saw outspreading from our feet
        The golden glory of the Downs.
      The furze-crowned heights, the glorious glen,
        The white-walled chapel glistening near,
      The house of God, the homes of men,
        The fragrant hay, the ripening ear.'
                              Denis Florence M'Carthy.

                                    The Old Hall, Devorgilla,
                                           Vale of the Boyne.

We have now lived in each of Ireland's four provinces, Leinster, Munster, Ulster, and Connaught,
but the confines of these provinces, and their number, have changed several times since the
beginning of history. In A.D. 130 the Milesian monarchy was restored in the person of Tuathal
(Too'hal) the Legitimate. Over each of the Irish provinces was a ri or king, and there was
also over all Ireland an Ard-ri or supreme monarch who lived at Tara up to the time of its
abandonment in the sixth century. Before Tuathal's day, the Ard-ri had for his land allowance
only a small tract around Tara, but Tuathal cut off a portion from each of the four older provinces,
at the Great Stone of Divisions in the centre of Ireland, making the fifth province of Royal
Meath, which has since disappeared, but which was much larger than the present two counties
of Meath and Westmeath. In this once famous, and now most lovely and fertile spot, with the
good republican's love of royalty and royal institutions, we have settled ourselves; in the
midst of verdant plains watered by the Boyne and the Blackwater, here rippling over shallows,
there meandering in slow deep reaches between reedy banks.

The Old Hall, from which I write, is somewhere in the vale of the Boyne, somewhere near Yellow
Steeple, not so far from Treadagh, only a few miles from Ballybilly (I hope to be forgiven
this irreverence to the glorious memory of his Majesty, William, Prince of Orange!), and within
driving distance of Killkienan, Croagh-Patrick, Domteagh, and Tara Hill itself. If you know
your Royal Meath, these geographical suggestions will give you some idea of our location; if
not, take your map of Ireland, please (a thing nobody has near him), and find the town of Tuam,
where you left us a little time ago. You will see a railway line from Tuam to Athenry, Athlone,
and Mullingar. Anybody can visit Mullingar--it is for the million; but only the elect may go
to Devorgilla. It is the captive of our bow and spear; or, to change the figure, it is a violet
by a mossy stone, which we refuse to have plucked from its poetic solitude and worn in the
bosom or in the buttonhole of the tourist.

At Mullingar, then, we slip on enchanted garments which conceal us from the casual eye, and
disappear into what is, in midsummer, a bower of beauty. There you will find, when you find
us, Devorgilla, lovely enough to be Tir-nan-og, that Land of the Ever Youthful well know to
the Celts of long ago. Here we have rested our weary bodies and purified our travel-stained
minds. Fresh from the poverty-ridden hillsides of Connaught, these rich grazing-lands, comfortable
houses, magnificent demesnes and castles, are unspeakably grateful to the eye and healing to
the spirit. We have not forgotten, shall never forget, our Connemara folk, nor yet Omadhaun
Pat and dark Timsy of Lisdara in the north; but it is good, for a change, to breathe in this
sense of general comfort, good cheer, and abundance.

Benella is radiant, for she is near enough to Trim to go there occasionally to seek for traces
of her ancestress, Mary Boyce; and as for Salemina, this bit of country is a Mecca for antiquaries
and scholars, and we are fairly surrounded by towers, tumuli, and cairns. "It's mostly ruins
they do be wantin', these days," said a wayside acquaintance. "I built a stone house for my
donkey on the knockaun beyant my cabin just, and bedad, there's a crowd round it every Saturday
callin' it the risidence of wan of the Danish kings! An' they are diggin' at Tara now, ma'am,
looking for the Ark of the Covenant! They do be sayin' the prophet Jeremiah come over from
England and brought it wid him. Begorra, it's a lucky man he was to get away wid it!"

Added to these advantages of position, we are within a few miles of Rosnaree, Dr. La Touche's
demesne, to which he comes home from Dublin to-morrow, bringing with him our dear Mr. and Mrs.
Colquhoun of Ardnagreena. We have been here ourselves for ten days, and are flattered to think
that we have used the time as unconventionally as we could well have done. We had driven over
perhaps twenty square miles of country, with the view of selecting the most delectable spot
that could be found, without going too far from Rosnaree. The chief trouble was that we always
desired every dwelling that we saw. I tell you this with a view of lessening the shock when
I confess that, before we came to the Old Hall where we are now settled for a month, and which
was Salemina's choice, Francesca and I took two different houses, and lived in them for seven
days, each in solitary splendour, like the Prince of Coolavin. It was not difficult to agree
upon the district, we were of one mind there: the moment that we passed the town and drove
along the flowery way that leads to Devorgilla, we knew that it was the road of destiny.

The whitethorn is very late this year, and we found ourselves in the full glory of it. It is
beautiful in all its stages, from the time when it first opens its buds, to the season when
'every spray is white with may, and blooms the eglantine.' There is no hint of green leaf visible
then, and every tree is 'as white as snow of one night.' This is the Gaelic comparison, and
the first snow seems especially white and dazzling, I suppose, when one sees it in the morning
where were green fields the night before. The sloe, which is the blackthorn, comes still earlier
and has fewer leaves. That is the tree of the old English song:--

     'From the white-blossomed sloe
      My dear Chloe requested
        A sprig her fair breast to adorn.
      "No, by Heav'ns!" I exclaimed, "may I perish,
        If ever I plant in that bosom a thorn!"'

And it is not only trees, but hedges and bushes and groves of hawthorn, for a white thorn bush
is seldom if ever cut down here, lest a grieved and displeased fairy look up from the cloven
trunk, and no Irishman could bear to meet the reproach of her eyes. Do not imagine, however,
that we are all in white, like a bride: there is the pink hawthorn, and there are pink and
white horse-chestnuts laden with flowers, yellow laburnums hanging over whitewashed farm-buildings,
lilacs, and, most wonderful of all, the blaze of the yellow gorse. There will be a thorn hedge
struggling with and conquering a grey stone wall; then a golden gorse bush struggling with
and conquering the thorn; seeking the sun, it knows no restraints, and creeping through the
barriers of green and white and grey, it fairly hurls its yellow splendours in great blazing
patches along the wayside. In dazzling glory, in richness of colour, there is nothing in nature
that we can compare with this loveliest and commonest of all wayside weeds. The gleaming wealth
of the Klondike would make a poor showing beside a single Irish hedgerow; one would think that
Mother Earth had stored in her bosom all the sunniest gleams of bygone summers, and was now
giving them back to the sun king from whom she borrowed them.

It was at twilight when we first swam this fragrant, golden sea--twilight, and the birds were
singing in every bush; the thrushes and blackbirds in the blossoming cherry and chestnut-trees
were so many and so tuneful that the chorus was sweet and strong beyond anything I ever heard.
There had been a shower or two, of course; showers that looked like shimmering curtains of
silver gauze, and whether they lifted or fell the birds went on singing.

"I did not believe such a thing possible but it is lovelier than Pettybaw," said Francesca;
and just here we came in sight of a pink cottage cuddling on the breast of a hill. Pink the
cottage was, as if it had been hewed out of a coral branch or the heart of a salmon; pink-washed
were the stone walls and posts; pink even were the chimneys; a green lattice over the front
was the only leaf in the bouquet. Wallflowers grew against the pink stone walls, and there
is no beautiful word in any beautiful language that can describe the effect of that modest,
rose-hued dwelling blushing against a background of heather-brown hills covered solidly with
golden gorse bushes in full bloom. Himself and I have always agreed to spend our anniversaries
with Mrs. Bobby at Comfort Cottage, in England, or at Bide-a-Wee, the 'wee, theekit hoosie'
in the loaning at Pettybaw, for our little love-story was begun in the one and carried on in
the other; but this, this, I thought instantly, must somehow be crowded into the scheme of
red-letter days. And now we suddenly discovered something at once interesting and disconcerting--an
American flag floating from a tree in the background.

"The place is rented, then," said Francesca, "to some enterprising American or some star-spangled
Irishman who has succeeded in discovering Devorgilla before us. I well understand how the shade
of Columbus must feel whenever Amerigo Vespucci's name is mentioned!"

We sent the driver off to await our pleasure, and held a consultation by the wayside.

"I shall call at any rate," I announced; "any excuse will serve which brings me nearer to that
adorable dwelling. I intend to be standing in that pink doorway, with that green lattice over
my head, when Himself arrives in Devorgilla. I intend to end my days within those rosy walls,
and to begin the process at the earliest possible moment."

Salemina disapproved, of course. Her method is always to stand well in the rear, trembling
beforehand lest I should do something unconventional; then, later on, when things romantic
begin to transpire, she says delightedly, "Wasn't that clever of us?"

"An American flag," I urged, "is a proclamation; indeed, it is, in a sense, an invitation;
besides it is my duty to salute it in a foreign land!"

"Patriotism, how many sins are practised in thy name!" said Salemina satirically. "Can't you
salute your flag from the high-road?"

"Not properly, Sally dear, nor satisfactorily. So you and Francesca sit down, timidly and respectably,
under the safe shadow of the hedge, while I call upon the blooming family in the darling, blooming
house. I am an American artist, lured to their door alike by devotion to my country's flag
and love of the picturesque." And so saying I ascended the path with some dignity and a false
show of assurance.

The circumstances did not chance to be precisely what I had expected. There was a nice girl
tidying the kitchen, and I found no difficulty in making friends with her. Her mother owned
the cottage, and rented it every season to a Belfast lady, who was coming in a week to take
possession, as usual. The American flag had been floating in honour of her mother's brother,
who had come over from Milwaukee to make them a little visit, and had just left that afternoon
to sail from Liverpool. The rest of the family lived, during the three summer months, in a
smaller house down the road; but she herself always stayed at the cottage, to 'mind' the Belfast
lady's children.

When I looked at the pink floor of the kitchen and the view from the windows, I would have
given anything in the world to outbid, yes, even to obliterate the Belfast lady; but this,
unfortunately, was not only illegal and immoral, but it was impossible. So, calling the mother
in from the stables, I succeeded, after fifteen minutes' persuasion, in getting permission
to occupy the house for one week, beginning with the next morning, and returned in triumph
to my weary constituents, who thought it an insane idea.

"Of course it is," I responded cheerfully; "that is why it is going to be so altogether charming.
Don't be envious; I will find something mad for you to do, too. One of us is always submitting
to the will of the majority; now let us be as individually silly as we like for a week, and
then take a long farewell of freakishness and freedom. Let the third volume die in lurid splendour,
since there is never to be a fourth."

"There is still Wales," suggested Francesca.

"Too small, Fanny dear, and we could never pronounce the names. Besides, what sort of adventures
would be possible to three--I mean, of course, two--persons tied down by marital responsibilities
and family cares? Is it the sunset or the reflection of the pink house that is shining on your
pink face, Salemina?"

"I am extremely warm," she replied haughtily.

"I don't wonder; sitting on the damp grass under a hedge is so stimulating to the circulation!"
observed 'young Miss Fan.'

Chapter XXVII. The three chatelaines of Devorgilla.

     'Have you been at Devorgilla,
        Have you seen, at Devorgilla,
      Beauty's train trip o'er the plain,--
        The lovely maids of Devorgilla?'
                         Adapted from Edward Lysaght.

The next morning the Old Hall dropped like a ripe rowan berry into our very laps. The landlord
of the Shamrock Inn directed us thither, and within the hour it belonged to us for the rest
of the summer. Miss Peabody, inclined to be severe with me for my desertion, took up her residence
at once. It had never been rented before; but Miss Llewellyn-Joyce, the owner, had suddenly
determined to visit her sister in London, and was glad to find appreciative and careful tenants.
She was taking her own maid with her, and thus only one servant remained, to be rented with
the premises, as is frequently the Irish fashion. The Old Hall has not always been managed
thus economically, it is easy to see, and Miss Llewellyn-Joyce speaks with the utmost candour
of her poverty, as indeed the ruined Irish gentry always do. I well remember taking tea with
a family in West Clare where in default of a spoon the old squire stirred his cup with the
poker, a proceeding apparently so usual that he never thought of apologising for it as an oddity.

The Hall has a lodge, which is a sort of miniature Round Tower, at the entrance gate, and we
see nothing for it but to import a brass-buttoned boy from the nearest metropolis, where we
must also send for a second maid.

"That'll do when you get him," objected Benella, "though boys need a lot of overseeing; but
as nobody can get in or come out o' that gate without help, I shall have to go to the lodge
every day now, and set down there with my sewin' from four to six in the afternoon, or whenever
the callin' hours is. When I engaged with you, it wasn't for any particular kind of work; it
was to make myself useful. I've been errand-boy and courier, golf-caddie and footman, beau,
cook, land agent, and mother to you all, and I guess I can be a lodge-keeper as well as not."

Francesca had her choice of residing either with Salemina or with me, during our week of separation,
and drove in my company to Rosaleen Cottage, to make up her mind. While she was standing at
my gate, engaged in reflection, she espied a small cabin not far away, and walked toward it
on a tour of investigation. It proved to have three tiny rooms--a bedroom, sitting-room, and
kitchen. The rent was only two pounds a month, it is true, but it was in all respects the most
unattractive, poverty-stricken, undesirable dwelling I ever saw. It was the small stove in
the kitchen that kindled Francesca's imagination, and she made up her mind instantly to become
a householder on her own account. I tried to dissuade her; but she is as firm as the Rock of
Cashel when once she has set her heart upon anything.

"I shall be almost your next-door neighbour, Penelope," she coaxed, "and of course you will
give me Benella. She will sleep in the sitting-room, and I will do the cooking. The landlady
says there is no trouble about food. 'What to ate?' she inquired, leaning out sociably over
the half-door. 'Sure it'll drive up to your very doore just.' And here is the 'wee grass,'
as she calls it, where 'yous can take your tay' under the Japanese umbrella left by the last
tenant. Think how unusual it will be for us to live in three different houses for a week; and
'there's luck in odd numbers, says Rory O'More.' We shall have the advantages of good society,
too, when we are living apart, for I foresee entertainment after entertainment. We will give
breakfasts, luncheons, teas, and dinners to one another; and meanwhile I shall have learned
all the housewifely arts. Think, too, how much better you can paint with me out of your way!"

"Does no thought of your eccentricity blight your young spirit, dear?"

"Why should it when I have simply shaped my course by yours?"

"But I am married, my child."

"And I'm 'going to be married, aha, Mamma!' as the song says; and what about Salemina, you
haven't scolded her?"

"She is living her very last days of single blessedness," I rejoined; "she does not know it,
but she is; and I want to give her all the freedom possible. Very well, dear innocent, live
in your wee hut, then, if you can persuade Benella to stay with you; but I think there would
best be no public visiting between you and those who live in Rosaleen Cottage and the Old Hall,
as it might ruin their social position."

Benella confessed that she had not the heart to refuse Francesca anything. "She's too handsome,"
she said, "and too winnin'. I s'pose she'll cook up some dreadful messes, but I'm willin' to
eat 'em, to oblige her, and perhaps it'll save her husband a few spells of dyspepsy at the
start; though, as far as my experience goes, ministers'll always eat anything that's set before
'em, and look over their shoulders for more."

We had a heavenly week of silliness, and by dint of concealing our real relations from the
general public, I fancy we escaped harsh criticism. There is a very large percentage of lunacy
anyway in Ireland, as well as great leniency of public opinion, and I fancy there is scarcely
a country on the map in which one could be more foolish without being found out. Visit each
other we did constantly, and candour obliges me to state that, though each of us secretly prided
herself on the perfection of her cuisine, Miss Monroe gave the most successful afternoon tea
of all, on the 'wee grass,' under the Japanese umbrella. How unexpectedly good were her scones,
her tea-cakes, and her cress sandwiches, and how pretty and graceful and womanly she was, all
flushed with pride at our envy and approbation! I did a water-colour sketch of her and sent
it to Ronald, receiving in return a letter bubbling over with fond admiration and gratitude.
She seems always in tone with the season and the landscape, does Francesca, and she arrives
at it unconsciously, too. She glances out of her window at the yellow laburnum-tree when she
is putting on her white frock, and it suggests to her all her amber trinkets and her drooping
hat with the wreath of buttercups. When she came to my hawthorn luncheon at Rosaleen Cottage
she did not make the mistake of heaping pink on pink, but wore a cotton gown of palest green,
with a bunch of rosy blossoms at her belt. I painted her just as she stood under the hawthorn,
with its fluttering petals and singing birds, calling the picture Grainne Mael [*]: A Vision
of Erinn, writing under it the verse:--

     'The thrushes seen in bushes green are singing loud--
      Bid sadness go and gladness glow,--give welcome proud!
      The Rover comes, the Lover, whom you long bewail,
      O'er sunny seas, with honey breeze, to Grainne Mael.'

     * Pronounced Graunia Wael, the M being modified.  It is one
     of the endearing names given to Ireland in the Penal Times.

Benella, I fancy, never had so varied a week in her life, and she was in her element. We were
obliged to hire a side-car by the day, as two of our residences were over a mile apart; and
the driver of that vehicle was the only person, I think, who had any suspicion of our sanity.
In the intervals of teaching Francesca cooking, and eating the results while the cook herself
prudently lunched or dined with her friends, Benella 'spring-cleaned' the lodge at the Old
Hall, scrubbed the gateposts, mended stone walls, weeded garden beds, made bags for the brooms
and dusters and mattresses, burned coffee and camphor and other ill-smelling things in all
the rooms, and devoted considerable time to superintending my little maid, that I might not
feel neglected. We were naturally obliged, meanwhile, to wait upon ourselves and keep our frocks
in order; but as long as the Derelict was so busy and happy, and so devoted to the universal
good, it would have been churlish and ungrateful to complain.

On leaving the Wee Hut, as Francesca had, with ostentatious modesty, named her residence, she
paid her landlady two pounds, and was discomfited when the exuberant and impetuous woman embraced
her in a paroxysm of weeping gratitude.

"I cannot understand, Penelope, why she was so disproportionately grateful, for I only gave
her five shillings over the two pounds rent."

"Yes, dear," I responded drily; "but you remember that the rent was for the month, and you
paid her two pounds five shillings for the week."

All the rest of that day Francesca was angelic. She brought footstools for Salemina, wound
wool for her, insisted upon washing my paint brushes, read aloud to us while we were working,
and offered to be the one to discharge Benella if the awful moment for that surgical operation
should ever come. Finally, just as we were about to separate for the night, she said, with
insinuating sweetness, "You won't tell Ronald about my mistake with the rent-money, will you,
dearest and darlingest girls?"

We are now quite ready to join in all the gaieties that may ensue when Rosnaree welcomes its
master and his guests. Our page in buttons at the lodge gives Benella full scope for her administrative
ability, which seems to have sprung into being since she entered our service; at least, if
I except that evidence of it which she displayed in managing us when first we met. She calls
our page 'the Button Boy,' and makes his life a burden to him by taking him away from his easy
duties at the gate, covering his livery with baggy overalls, and setting him to weed the garden.
It can never, in the nature of things, be made free from weeds during our brief term of tenancy,
but Benella cleverly keeps her slave at work on the beds and the walks that are the most conspicuous
to visitors. The Old Hall used simply to be called 'Aunt David's house' by the Welsh Joyces,
and it was Aunt David herself who made the garden; she who traced the lines of the flower-beds
with the ivory tip of her parasol; she who planned the quaint stone gateways and arbours and
hedge seats; she who devised the interminable stretches of paths, the labyrinthine walks, the
mazes, and the hidden flower-plots. You walk on and on between high hedges, until, if you have
not missed your way, you presently find a little pansy or rose or lily garden. It is quite
the most unexpected and piquant method of laying out a place I have ever seen; and the only
difficulty about it is that any gardener, unless he were possessed of unusual sense of direction,
would be continually astray in it. The Button Boy, obeying the laws of human nature, is lost
in two minutes, but requires two hours in which to find himself. Benella suspects that he prefers
this wandering to and fro to the more monotonous task of weeding, and it is no uncommon thing
for her to pursue the recalcitrant page through the mazes and labyrinths for an hour at a time,
and perhaps lose herself in the end. Salemina and I were sitting this morning in the Peacock
Walk, where two trees clipped into the shape of long-tailed birds mount guard over the box
hedge, and put their beaks together to form an arch. In the dim distance we could see Benella
'bagging' the Button Boy, and, after putting the trowel and rake in his reluctant hands, tying
the free end of a ball of string to his leg, and sending him to find and weed the pansy garden.
We laughed until the echoes rang, to see him depart, dragging his lengthening chain, or his
Ariadne thread, behind him, while Benella grimly held the ball, determined that no excuses
or apologies should interfere with his work on this occasion.

Chapter XXVIII. Round towers and reflections.

A Dublin car-driver told me one day that he had just taken a picnic-party to the borders of
a lake, where they had had tea in a tramcar which had been placed there for such purposes.
Francesca and I were amused at the idea, but did not think of it again until we drove through
the La Touche estate, on one of the first days after our arrival at Devorgilla. We left Salemina
at Rosnaree House with Aunt La Touche and the children, and proceeded to explore the grounds,
with the view of deciding on certain improvements to be made when the property passes, so to
speak, into our hands.

Truth to say, nature has done more for it than we could have done; and if it is a trifle overgrown
and rough and rank, it could hardly be more beautiful. At the very furthest confines of the
demesne there is a brook,--large enough, indeed, to be called a river here, where they have
no Mississippi to dwarf all other streams and serve as an impossible standard of comparison.
Tall trees droop over the calm water, and on its margins grow spearwort, opening its big yellow
cups to the sunshine, meadow rue, purple and yellow loosestrife, bog bean, and sweet flag.
Here and there float upon the surface the round leaves and delicate white blossoms of the frogbit,
together with lilies, pondweeds, and water starworts.

"What an idyllic place to sit and read, or sew, or have tea!" exclaimed Francesca.

"What a place for a tram tea-house!" I added. "Do you suppose we could manage it as a surprise
to Dr. La Touche, in return for all his kindness?"

"It would cost a pretty penny, I fear," said Francesca prudently, "though it isn't as if it
were going out of the family. Now that there is no longer any need for you to sell pictures,
I suppose you could dash off one in an hour or two that would buy a tram; and papa cabled me
yesterday, you know, to draw on him freely. I used to think, whenever he said that, that he
would marry again within the week; but I did him injustice. A tram tea-house by the river,--wouldn't
it be unique? Do let us see what we can do about it through some of our Dublin acquaintances."

The plan proved unexpectedly easy to carry out, and not ruinously extravagant, either; for
our friend the American consul knew the principal director in a tram company, and a dilapidated
and discarded car was sent to us in a few days. There were certain moments--once when we saw
that it had not been painted for twenty years, once when the freight bill was handed us, and
again when we contracted for the removal of our gift from the station to the river-bank--when
we regretted the fertility of imagination that had led us to these lengths; but when we finally
saw the car by the water-side, there was no room left for regret. Benella said that, with the
assistance of the Button Boy, she could paint it easily herself; but we engaged an expert,
who put on a coat of dark green very speedily, and we consoled the Derelict with the suggestion
that she could cover the cushions, and make the interior cosy and pretty.

All this happened some little time ago. Dr. La Touche has been at home for a fortnight, and
we have had to use the greatest ingenuity to keep people away from that particular spot, which,
fortunately for us, is a secluded one. All is ready now, however, and the following cards of
invitation have been issued:--

               The honour of your presence
                   is requested at the
               Opening of the New Tea Tram
            On the River Bank, Rosnaree Demesne,
              Wednesday, June 27th, at 4 p.m.
             The ceremony will be performed by
                  H.R.H. Salemina Peabody.
             The Bishop of Ossory in the Chair.

I have just learned that a certain William Beresford was Bishop of Ossory once on a time, and
I intend to personate this dignitary, clad in Dr. La Touche's cap and gown. We spend this sunny
morning by the river-bank; Francesca hemming the last of the yellow window curtains, and I
making souvenir programmes for the great occasion. Salemina had gone for the day with the Colquhouns
and Dr. La Touche to lunch with some people near Kavan and see Donaghmore Round Tower and the moat.

"Is she in love with Dr. Gerald?" asked Francesca suddenly, looking up from her work. "Was
she ever in love with him? She must have been, mustn't she? I cannot and will not entertain
any other conviction."

"I don't know, my dear," I answered thoughtfully, pausing over an initial letter I was illuminating;
"but I can't imagine what we shall do if we have to tear down our sweet little romance, bit
by bit, and leave the stupid couple sitting in the ruins. They enjoy ruins far too well already,
and it would be just like their obstinacy to go on sitting in them."

"And they are so incredibly slow about it all," Francesca commented. "It took me about two
minutes, at Lady Baird's dinner, where I first met Ronald, to decide that I would marry him
as soon as possible. When a month had gone by, and he hadn't asked me, I thought, like Rosalind,
that I'd as lief be wooed of a snail."

"I was not quite so expeditious as you," I confessed, "though I believe Himself says that his
feeling was instantaneous. I never cared for anything but painting before I met him, so I never
chanced to suffer any of those pangs that lovelorn maidens are said to feel when the beloved
delays his avowals: perhaps that is the reason I suffer so much now, vicariously."

"The lack of positive information makes one so impatient," Francesca went on. "I am sure he
is as fond of her as ever; but if she refused him when he was young and handsome, with every
prospect of a brilliant career before him, perhaps he thinks he has even less chance now. He
was the first to forget their romance, and the one to marry; his estates have been wasted by
his father's legal warfares, and he has been an unhappy and a disappointed man. Now he has
to beg her to heal his wounds, as it were, and to accept the care and responsibility of his
children."

"It is very easy to see that we are not the only ones who suspect his sentiments," I said,
smiling at my thoughts. "Mrs. Colquhoun told me that she and Salemina stopped at one of the
tenants' cabins, the other day, to leave some small comforts that Dr. La Touche had sent to
a sick child. The woman thanked Salemina, and Mrs. Colquhoun heard her say, 'When a man will
stop, coming in the doore, an' stoop down to give a sthroke and a scratch to the pig's back,
depend on it, ma'am, him that's so friendly with a poor fellow-crathur will make ye a good
husband.'

"I have given him every opportunity to confide in me," I continued, after a pause, "but he
accepts none of them; and yet I like him a thousand times better now that I have seen him as
the master of his own house. He is so courtly, and, in these latter days, so genial and sunny...
Salemina's life would not at first be any too easy, I fear; the aunt is very feeble, and the
establishment is so neglected. I went into Dr. Gerald's study the other day to see an old print,
and there was a buzz-buzz-zzzz when the butler pulled up the blinds. 'Do you mind bees, ma'am?'
he asked blandly. 'There's been a swarm of them in one corner of the ceiling for manny years,
an' we don't like to disturb them.'... Benella said yesterday: 'Of course, when you three separate,
I shall stay with the one that needs me most; but if Miss Peabody SHOULD settle over here anywhere,
I'd like to take a scrubbing brush an' go through the castle, or whatever she's going to live
in, with soap and sand and ammonia, and make it water-sweet before she sets foot in it.'...
As for the children, however, no one could regard them as a drawback, for they are altogether
charming; not well disciplined, of course, but lovable to the last degree. Broona was planning
her future life when we were walking together yesterday. Jackeen is to be 'an engineer, by
the sea,' so it seems, and Broona is to be a farmer's wife with a tiny red bill-book like Mrs.
Colquhoun's. Her little boys and girls will sell the milk, and when Jackeen has his engineering
holidays he will come and eat fresh butter and scones and cream and jam at the farm, and when
her children have their holidays they will go and play on 'Jackeen's beach.' It is the little
people I rely upon chiefly, after all. I wish you could have seen them cataract down the staircase
to greet her this morning. I notice that she tries to make me divert their attention when Dr.
Gerald is present; for it is a bit suggestive to a widower to see his children pursue, hang
about, and caress a lovely, unmarried lady. Broona, especially, can hardly keep away from Salemina;
and she is such a fascinating midget, I should think anybody would be glad to have her included
in a marriage contract. 'You have a weeny, weeny line between your eyebrows, just like my daddy's,'
she said to Salemina the other day. 'It's such a little one, perhaps I can kiss it away; but
daddy has too many, and they are cutted too deep. Sometimes he whispers, 'Daddy is sad, Broona,'
and then I say, 'Play up, play up, and play the game!' and that makes him smile.'"

"She is a darling," said Francesca, with the suspicion of a tear in her eye. "'Were you ever
in love, Miss Fancy?' she asked me once. 'I was; it was long, long ago before I belonged to
daddy'; and another time when I had been reading to her, she said 'I often think that when
I get into the kingdom of heaven the person I'll be gladdest to see will be Marjorie Fleming.'
Yes, the children are sure to help; they always do in whatever circumstances they chance to
be placed. Did you notice Salemina with them at tea-time, yesterday? It was such a charming
scene. The heavy rain had kept them in, and things had gone wrong in the nursery. Salemina
had glued the hair on Broona's dolly, and knit up a heart-breaking wound in her side. Then
she mended the legs of all the animals in the Noah's ark, so that they stood firm, erect, and
proud; and when, to draw the children's eyes from the wet window-panes, she proposed a story,
it was pretty to see the grateful youngsters snuggle in her lap and by her side."

"When does an artist ever fail to see pictures? I have loved Salemina always, even when she
used to part her hair in the middle and wear spectacles; but that is the first time I ever
wanted to paint her, with the firelight shining on the soft, restful greys and violets of her
dress, and Broona in her arms. Of course, if a woman is ever to be lovely at all, it will be
when she is holding a child. It is the oldest of all old pictures, and the most beautiful,
I believe, in a man's eyes.

"And do you notice that she and the doctor are beginning to speak more freely of their past
acquaintance?" I went on, looking up at Francesca, who had dropped her work in her interest.
"It is too amusing! Every hour or two it is: 'Do you remember the day we went to Bunker Hill?'
or, 'Do you recall that charming Mrs. Andrews, with whom we used to dine occasionally?' or,
'What has become of your cousin Samuel?' and, 'Is your uncle Thomas yet living?'... The other
day, at tea, she asked, 'Do you still take three lumps, Dr. La Touche? You had always a sweet
tooth, I remember.'... Then they ring the changes in this way: 'You were always fond of grey,
Miss Peabody.' 'You had a great fancy for Moore, in the old days, Miss Peabody: have you outgrown
him, or does the 'Anacreontic little chap,' as Father Prout called him, still appeal to you?'...
'You used to admire Boyle O'Reilly, Dr. La Touche. Would you like to see some of his letters?'...
'Aren't these magnificent rhododendrons, Dr. La Touche,--even though they are magenta, the
colour you specially dislike?' And so on. Did you chance to look at either of them last evening,
Francesca, when I sang 'Let Erin remember the days of old'?"

"No; I was thinking of something else. I don't know what there is about
your singing, Penny love, that always makes me think of the past and
dream of the future. Which verse do you mean?"
      Thus shall memory oft, in dreams sublime,
        Catch a glimpse of the days that are over,
      And, sighing, look thro' the waves of Time,
        For the long-faded glories they cover.'

"That is what our two dear middle-aged lovers are constantly doing now,--looking at the round
towers of other days, as they bend over memory's crystal pool and see them reflected there.
It is because he fears that the glories are over and gone that Dr. Gerald is troubled. Some
day he will realise that he need not live on reflections, and he will seek realities."

"I hope so," said Francesca philosophically, as she folded her work; "but sometimes these people
who go mooning about, and looking through the waves of Time, tumble in and are drowned."

Chapter XXIX. Aunt David's garden.

     'O wind, O mighty, melancholy wind,
        Blow through me, blow!
      Thou blowest forgotten things into my mind
        From long ago.'
                            John Todhunter.

No one ever had a better opportunity than we, of breathing in, so far as a stranger and a foreigner
may, the old Celtic atmosphere, and of reliving the misty years of legend before the dawn of
history; when

     'Long, long ago, beyond the space
        Of twice two hundred years,
      In Erin old there lived a race
        Taller than Roman spears.'

Mr. Colquhoun is one of the best Gaelic scholars in Ireland, and Dr. Gerald, though not his
equal in knowledge of the language, has 'the full of a sack of stories' in his head. According
to the Book of Leinster, a professional story-teller was required to know seven times fifty
tales, and I believe the doctor could easily pass this test. It is not easy to make a good
translation from Irish to English, for they tell us there are no two Aryan languages more opposed
to each other in spirit and idiom. We have heard little of the marvellous old tongue until
now, but we are reading it a bit under the tutelage of these two inspiring masters, and I fancy
it has helped me as much in my understanding of Ireland as my tedious and perplexing worriments
over political problems.

After all, how can we know anything of a nation's present or future without some attempt to
revivify its past? Just as, without some slender knowledge of its former culture, we must be
for ever ignorant of its inherited powers and aptitudes. The harp that once through Tara's
halls the soul of music shed, now indeed hangs mute on Tara's walls, but for all that its echoes
still reverberate in the listening ear.

When we sit together by the river brink on sunny days, or on the greensward under the yews
in our old garden, we are always telling ancient Celtic romances, and planning, even acting,
new ones. Francesca's mind and mine are poorly furnished with facts of any sort; but when the
kind scholars in our immediate neighbourhood furnish necessary information and inspiration,
we promptly turn it into dramatic form, and serve it up before their wondering and admiring
gaze. It is ever our habit to 'make believe' with the children; and just as we played ballads
in Scotland and plotted revels in the Glen at Rowardennan, so we instinctively fall into the
habit of thought and speech that surrounds us here.

This delights our grave and reverend signiors, and they give themselves up to our whimsicalities
with the most whole-hearted zeal. It is days since we have spoken of one another by those names
which were given to us in baptism. Francesca is Finola the Festive. Eveleen Colquhoun is Ethnea.
I am the harper, Pearla the Melodious. Miss Peabody is Sheela the Skilful Scribe, who keeps
for posterity a record of all our antics, in the Speckled Book of Salemina. Dr. Gerald is Borba
the Proud, the Ard-ri or overking. Mr. Colquhoun is really called Dermod, but he would have
been far too modest to choose Dermot O'Dyna for his Celtic name, had we not insisted; for this
historic personage was not only noble-minded, generous, of untarnished honour, and the bravest
of the brave, but he was as handsome as he was gallant, and so much the idol of the ladies
that he was sometimes called Dermat-na-man, or Dermot of the women.

Of course we have a corps of shanachies, or story-tellers, gleemen, gossipreds, leeches, druids,
gallowglasses, bards, ollaves, urraghts, and brehons; but the children can always be shifted
from one role to another, and Benella and the Button Boy, although they are quite unaware of
the honours conferred upon them, are often alluded to in our romances and theatrical productions.

Aunt David's garden is not a half bad substitute for the old Moy-Mell, the plain of pleasure
of the ancient Irish, when once you have the key to its treasures. We have made a new and authoritative
survey of its geographical features and compiled a list of its legendary landmarks, which,
strangely enough, seem to have been absolutely unknown to Miss Llewellyn-Joyce.

In the very centre is the Forradh, or Place of Meeting, and on it is our own Lia Fail, Stone
of Destiny. The one in Westminster Abbey, carried away from Scotland by Edward I., is thought
by many scholars to be unauthentic, and we hope that ours may prove to have some historical
value. The only test of a Stone of Destiny, as I understand it, is that it shall 'roar' when
an Irish monarch is inaugurated; and that our Lia Fail was silent when we celebrated this impressive
ceremony reflects less upon its own powers, perhaps, than upon the pedigree of our chosen Ard-ri.

The arbour under the mountain ash is the Fairy Palace of the Quicken Tree, and on its walls
is suspended the Horn of Foreknowledge, which if any one looks on it in the morning, fasting,
he will know in a moment all things that are to happen during that day.

The clump of willows is the Wood of the Many Sallows (a willow-tree is familiarly known as
a 'sally' in Ireland). Do you know Yeats's song, put to a quaint old Irish air?

     'Down by the sally gardens my love and I did meet,
      She passed the sally gardens with little snow-white feet.
      She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree,
      But I, being young and foolish, with her did not agree.'

The summer-house is the Greenan; that is, grianan, a bright, sunny place. On the arm of a tree
in the Greenan hangs something you might (if you are dull) mistake for a plaited garland of
rushes hung with pierced pennies; but it really is our Chain of Silence, a useful article of
bygone ages, which the lord of a mansion shook when he wished an attentive hearing, and which
deserved a better fate and a longer survival than it has met. Jackeen's Irish terrier is Bran,--though
he does not closely resemble the great Finn's sweet-voiced, gracefully-shaped, long-snouted
hound; the coracle lying on the shore of the little lough--the coracle made of skin, like the
old Irish boats--is the Wave-Sweeper; and the faithful mare that we hire by the day is, by
your leave, Enbarr of the Flowing Mane. No warrior was ever killed on the back of this famous
steed, for she was as swift as the clear, cold wind of spring, travelling with equal ease and
speed on land and sea, an' may the divil fly away wid me if that same's not true.

We no longer find any difficulty in remembering all this nomenclature, for we are 'under gesa'
to use no other. When you are put under gesa to reveal or to conceal, to defend or to avenge,
it is a sort of charm or spell; also an obligation of honour. Finola is under gesa not to write
to Alba more than six times a week and twice on Sundays; Sheela is bound by the same charm
to give us muffins for afternoon tea; I am vowed to forget my husband when I am relating romances,
and allude to myself, for dramatic purposes, as a maiden princess, or a maiden of enchanting
and all-conquering beauty. And if we fail to abide by all these laws of the modern Dedannans
of Devorgilla, which are written in the Speckled Book of Salemina, we are to pay eric-fine.
These fines are collected with all possible solemnity, and the children delight in them to
such an extent that occasionally they break the law for the joy of the penalty. If you have
ever read the Fate of the Children of Turenn, you remember that they were to pay to Luga the
following eric-fine for the slaying of their father, Kian: two steeds and a chariot, seven
pigs, a hound whelp, a cooking-spit, and three shouts on a hill. This does not at first seem
excessive, if Kian were a good father, and sincerely mourned; but when Luga began to explain
the hidden snares that lay in the pathway, it is small wonder that the sons of Turenn felt
doubt of ever being able to pay it, and that when, after surmounting all the previous obstacles,
they at last raised three feeble shouts on Midkena's Hill, they immediately gave up the ghost.

The story told yesterday by Sheela the Scribe was the Magic Thread-Clue, or the Pursuit of
the Gilla Dacker, Benella and the Button Boy being the chief characters; Finola's was the Voyage
of the Children of Corr the Swift-Footed (the Ard-ri's pseudonym for American travellers);
while mine, to be told to-morrow, is called the Quest of the Fair Strangers, or the Fairy Quicken
Tree of Devorgilla.

Chapter XXX. The Quest of the Fair Strangers, or The Fairy Quicken-Tree of Devorgilla. [*]

           'Before the King
            The bards will sing.
      And there recall the stories all
        That give renown to Ireland.'
                      Eighteenth Century Song.
                        Englished by George Sigerson.

     * It seems probable that this tale records a real incident
     which took place in Aunt David's garden. Penelope has
     apparently listened with such attention to the old Celtic
     romances as told by the Ard-ri and Dermot O'Dyna that she
     has, consciously or unconsciously, reproduced something of
     their atmosphere and phraseology. The delightful surprise at
     the end must have been contrived by Salemina, when she, in
     her character of Sheela the Scribe, gazed into the Horn of
     Foreknowledge and learned the events that were to happen
     that day.--K.D.W.

                  PEARLA'S STORY.

Three maidens once dwelt in a castle in that part of the Isle of Weeping known as the cantred
of Devorgilla, Devorgilla of the Green Hill Slopes; and they were baptized according to druidical
rites as Sheela the Scribe, Finola the Festive, and Pearla the Melodious, though by the dwellers
in that land they were called the Fair Strangers, or the Children of Corr the Swift-Footed.

This cantred of Devorgilla they acquired by paying rent and tribute to the Wise Woman of Wales,
who granted them to fish in its crystal streams and to hunt over the green-sided hills, to
roam through the woods of yew-trees and to pluck the flowers of every hue that were laughing
all over the plains.

Thus were they circumstanced: Their palace of abode was never without three shouts in it,--the
shout of the maidens brewing tea, the shout of the guests drinking it, and the shout of the
assembled multitude playing at their games. The same house was never without three measures,--a
measure of magic malt for raising the spirits, a measure of Attic salt for the seasoning of
tales, and a measure of poppy leaves to induce sleep when the tales were dull.

And the manner of their lives was this: In the cool of the morning they gathered nuts and arbutus
apples and scarlet quicken berries to take back with them to Tir-thar-toinn, the Country beyond
the Wave; for this was the land of their birth. When the sun was high in the east they went
forth to the chase; sometimes it was to hunt the Ard-ri, and at others it was in pursuit of
Dermot of the Bright Face. Then, after resting awhile on their couches of soft rushes, they
would perform champion feats, or play on their harps, or fish in their clear-flowing streams
that were swimming with salmon.

The manner of their fishing was this: to cut a long, straight sallow-tree rod, and having fastened
a hook and one of Finola's hairs upon it, to put a quicken-tree berry upon the hook, and stand
on the brink of the swift-flowing river, whence they drew out the shining-skinned, silver-sided
salmon. These they would straightway broil over a little fire of birch boughs; and they needed
with them no other food but the magical loaf made by Toma, one of their house-servants. The
witch hag that dwelt on that hillside of Rosnaree called Fan-na-carpat, or the Slope of the
Chariots, had cast a druidical spell over Toma, by which she was able to knead a loaf that
would last twenty days and twenty nights, and one mouthful of which would satisfy hunger for
that length of time. [**]

     ** Fact.

Not far from the mayden castle was a certain royal palace, with a glittering roof, and the
name of the palace was Rosnaree. And upon the level green in front of the regal abode, or in
the banqueting-halls, might always be seen noble companies of knights and ladies bright,--some
feasting, some playing at the chess, some giving ear to the music of their own harps, some
continually shaking the Chain of Silence, and some listening to the poems and tales of heroes
of the olden time that were told by the king's bards and shanachies.

Now all went happily with the Fair Strangers until the crimson berries were ripening on the
quicken-tree near the Fairy Palace. For the berries possessed secret virtues known only to
a man of the Dedannans, and learned from him by Sheela the Scribe, who put him under gesa not
to reveal the charm to any one else. Whosoever ate of the honey-sweet, scarlet-glowing fruit
felt a cheerful flow of spirits, as if he had tasted wine or mead, and whosoever ate a sufficient
number of them was almost certain to grow younger. These things were written in the Speckled
Book of Salemina, but in druidical ink, undecipherable to all eyes but those of the Scribe herself.

So, wishing that none should possess the secret but themselves, the Fair Strangers set the
Gilla Dacker+ to watch the fruit (putting him first under gesa to eat none of the berries himself,
since he was already too cheerful and too young to be of much service); and thus, in their
absence, the magical tree was never left alone.

     +Could be freely translated as the Slothful Button Boy.

Nevertheless, when Finola the Festive went forth to the chase one day, she found a quicken
berry glowing like a ruby in the highroad, and Sheela plucked a second from under a gnarled
thorn on the Slope of the Chariots, and Pearla discovered a third in the curiously-compounded,
swiftly-satisfying loaf of Toma. Then the Fair Strangers became very angry, and sent out their
trusty fleet-footed couriers to scour the land for the invaders; for they knew that none of
the Dedannans would take the berries, being under gesa not to do so. But the couriers returned,
and though they were men able to trace the trail of a fox through nine glens and nine rivers,
they could discover no proof of the presence of a foreign foe in the mayden cantred of Devorgilla.

Then the hearts of the Fair Strangers were filled with grief and gall, for they distrusted
the couriers, and having consulted the Ard-ri, they set forth themselves to find and conquer
the invader; for the king told them that there was one other quicken-tree, more beautiful and
more magical than that growing by the Fairy Palace, and that it was set in another part of
the bright-blooming, sweet-scented old garden,--namely, in the heart of the labyrinthine maze
of the Wise Woman of Wales; but as no one of them, neither the Gilla Dacker nor those who pursued
him, had ever, even with the aid of the Magic Thread-Clue, reached the heart of the maze, there
was no knowledge among them of the second quicken-tree. The king also told Sheela the Scribe,
secretly, that one of his knights had found a money-piece and a breviary in the forest of Rosnaree;
and the silver was unlike any ever used in the country of the Dedannans, and the breviary could
belong only to a pious Gael known as Loskenn of the Bare Knees.

Now Sheela the Scribe, having fasted from midnight until dawn, gazed upon the Horn of Foreknowledge,
and read there that it was wiser for her to remain on guard at the Fairy Palace, while her
sisters explored the secret fastnesses of the labyrinth.

When Finola was apparelled to set forth upon her quest, Pearla thought her the loveliest maiden
upon the ridge of the world, and wondered whether she meant to conquer the invader by force
of arms or by the power of beauty.

The rose and the lily were fighting together in her face, and one could not tell which of them
got the victory. Her arms and hands were like the lime, her mouth was as red as a ripe strawberry,
her foot as small and as light as another one's hand, her form smooth and slender, and her
hair falling down from her head under combs of gold.++ One could not look at her without being
'all over in love with her,' as Oisin said at his first meeting with Niam of the Golden Hair.
And as for Pearla, the rose on her cheeks was heightened by her rage against the invader, the
delicate blossom of the sloe was not whiter than her neck, and her glossy chestnut ringlets
fell to her waist.

     ++ Description of the Princess in Guleesh na Guss Dhu.

Then the Gilla Dacker unleashed Bran, the keen-scented terrier hound, and put a pearl-embroidered
pillion on Enbarr of the Flowing Mane, and the two dauntless maidens leaped upon her back,
each bearing a broad shield and a long polished, death-dealing spear. When Enbarr had been
given a free rein she set out for the labyrinth, trailing the Magic Thread-Clue behind her,
cleaving the air with long, active strides; and if you know what the speed of a swallow is,
flying across a mountain-side, or the dry wind of a March day sweeping over the plains, then
you can understand nothing of the swiftness of this steed of the flowing mane, acquired by
the day by the maydens of Devorgilla.

Many were the dangers that beset the path of these two noble champions on their quest for the
Fairy Quicken Tree. Here they met an enormous white stoat, but this was slain by the intrepid
Bran, and they buried its bleeding corse and raised a cairn over it, with the name 'Stoat'
graven on it in Ogam; there a druidical fairy mist sprang up in their path to hide the way,
but they pierced it with a note of their far-reaching, clarion-toned voices,--an art learned
in their native land beyond the wave.

Now the dog Bran, being unhungered, and refusing to eat of Toma's loaf, as all did who were
ignorant of its druidical purpose, fell upon the Magic Thread-Clue and tore it in twain. This
so greatly affrighted the champions that they sounded the Dord-Fian slowly and plaintively,
hoping that the war-cry might bring Sheela to their rescue. This availing nothing, Finola was
forced to slay Bran with her straight-sided, silver-shining spear; but this she felt he would
not mind if he could know that he would share the splendid fate of the stoat, and speedily
have a cairn raised over him, with the word 'Bran' graven upon it in Ogam,--since this is the
consolation offered by the victorious living to all dead Celtic heroes; and if it be a poor
substitute for life, it is at least better than nothing.

It was now many hours after noon, and though to the Fair Strangers it seemed they had travelled
more than forty or a hundred miles, they were apparently no nearer than ever to the heart of
the labyrinth: and this from the first had been the pestiferous peculiarity of that malignantly
meandering maze. So they dismounted, and tied Enbarr to the branch of a tree, while they refreshed
themselves with a mouthful of Toma's loaf; and Finola now put her thumb under her 'tooth of
knowledge,' for she wished new guidance and inspiration, and, being more than common modest,
she said: "Inasmuch as we are fairer than all the other maydens in this labyrinth, why, since
we cannot find the heart of the maze, do we not entice the invaders from their hiding-place
by the quicken-tree; and when we see from what direction they advance, fall upon and slay them;
and after raising the usual cairn to their memory, and carving their names over it in the customary
Ogam, run to the enchanted tree and gather all the berries that are left? For this is the hour
when Sheela brews the tea, and the knights and the ladies quaff it from our golden cups; and
truly I am weary of this quest, and far rather would I be there than here."

So Pearla the Melodious took her timpan, and chanted a Gaelic song that she had learned in
the country of the Dedannans; and presently a round-polished, red-gleaming quicken berry dropped
into her lap, and another into Finola's, and, looking up, they saw nought save only a cloud
of quicken berries falling through the air one after the other. And this caused them to wonder,
for it seemed like unto a snare set for them; but Pearla said, "There is nought remaining for
us but to meet the danger."

"It is well," replied Finola, shaking down the mantle of her ebon locks, and setting the golden
combs more firmly in them; "only, if I perish, I prithee let there be no cairns or Ogams. Let
me fall, as a beauty should, face upward; and if it be but a swoon, and the invader be a handsome
prince, see that he wakens me in his own good way."

"To arms, then!" cried Pearla, and, taking up their spears and shields, the Fair Strangers
dashed blindly in the direction whence the berries fell.

"To arms indeed, but to yours or ours?" called two voices from the heart of the labyrinth;
and there, in an instant, the two brave champions, Finola and Pearla, found the Fairy Tree
hanging thick with scarlet berries, and under its branches, fit fruit indeed to raise the spirits
or bring eternal youth, were, in the language of the Dedannans, Loskenn of the Bare Knees and
the Bishop of Ossory,--known to the Children of Corr the Swift-Footed as Ronald Macdonald and
Himself!

And the hours ran on; and Sheela the Scribe brewed and brewed and brewed and brewed the tea
at her table in the Peacock Walk, and the knights and ladies quaffed it from the golden cups
belonging to the Wise Woman of Wales; but Finola the Festive and Pearla the Melodious lingered
in the labyrinth with Loskenn of the Bare Knees and the Bishop of Ossory. And they said to
one another, "Surely, if it were so great a task to find the heart of this maze, we should
be mad to stir from the spot, lest we lose it again."

And Pearla murmured, "That plan were wise indeed, save that the place seemeth all too small
for so many."

Then Finola drew herself up proudly, and replied, "It is no smaller for one than for another;
but come, Loskenn, let us see if haply we can lose ourselves in some path of our own finding."

And this they did; and the content of them that departed was no greater than the content of
them that were left behind, and the sun hid himself for very shame because the brightness of
their joy was so much more dazzling than the glory of his own face. And nothing more is told
of what befell them till they reached the threshold of the Old Hall; and it was not the sun,
but the moon, that shone upon their meeting with Sheela the Scribe.

Chapter XXXI. Good-bye, dark Rosaleen.

It is almost over, our Irish holiday, so full of delicious, fruitful experiences; of pleasures
we have made and shared, and of other people's miseries and hardships we could not relieve.
Almost over! Soon we shall be in Dublin, and then on to London to meet Francesca's father;
soon be deciding whether she will be married at the house of their friend the American ambassador,
or in her own country, where she has really had no home since the death of her mother.

The ceremony over, Mr. Monroe will start again for Cairo or Constantinople, Stockholm or St.
Petersburg; for he is of late years a determined wanderer, whose fatherly affection is chiefly
shown in liberal allowances, in pride of his daughter's beauty and many conquests, in conscientious
letter-writing, and in frequent calls upon her between his long journeys. It is because of
these paternal predilections that we are so glad Francesca's heart has resisted all the shot
and shell directed against it from the batteries of a dozen gay worldlings and yielded so quietly
and so completely to Ronald Macdonald's loyal and tender affection.

At tea-time day before yesterday, Salemina suggested that Francesca and I find the heart of
Aunt David's labyrinth, the which she had discovered in a less than ten minutes' search that
morning, leaving her Gaelic primer behind her that we might bring it back as a proof of our
success. You have heard in Pearla's Celtic fairy tale the outcome of this little expedition,
and now know that Ronald Macdonald and Himself planned the joyful surprise for us, and by means
of Salemina's aid carried it out triumphantly.

Ronald crossing to Ireland from Glasgow, and Himself from Liverpool, had met in Dublin, and
travelled post-haste to the Shamrock Inn in Devorgilla, where they communicated with Salemina
and begged her assistance in their plot.

I was looking forward to my husband's arrival within a week, but Ronald had said not a word
of his intended visit; so that Salemina was properly nervous lest some one of us should collapse
out of sheer joy at the unexpected meeting.

I have been both quietly and wildly happy many times in my life, but I think yesterday was
the most perfect day in all my chain of years. Not that in this long separation I have been
dull, or sad, or lonely. How could I be? Dull, with two dear, bright, sunny letters every week,
letters throbbing with manly tenderness, letters breathing the sure, steadfast, protecting
care that a strong man gives to the woman he has chosen. Sad, with my heart brimming over with
sweet memories and sweeter prophecies, and all its tiny crevices so filled with love that discontent
can find no entrance there! Lonely, when the vision of the beloved is so poignantly real in
absence that his bodily presence adds only a final touch to joy! Dull, or sad, when in these
soft days of spring and early summer I have harboured a new feeling of companionship and oneness
with Nature, a fresh joy in all her bounteous resource and plenitude of life, a renewed sense
of kinship with her mysterious awakenings! The heavenly greenness and promise of the outer
world seem but a reflection of the hopes and dreams that irradiate my own inner consciousness.

My art, dearly as I loved it, dearly as I love it still, never gave me these strange, unspeakable
joys with their delicate margin of pain. Where are my ambitions, my visions of lonely triumphs,
my imperative need of self-expression, my ennobling glimpses of the unattainable, my companionship
with the shadows in which an artist's life is so rich? Are they vanished altogether? I think
not; only changed in the twinkling of an eye, merged in something higher still, carried over,
linked on, transformed, transmuted, by Love the alchemist, who, not content with joys already
bestowed, whispers secret promises of raptures yet to come.

The green isle looked its fairest for our wanderers. Just as a woman adorns herself with all
her jewels when she wishes to startle or enthrall, wishes to make a lover of a friend, so Devorgilla
arrayed herself to conquer these two pairs of fresh eyes, and command their instant allegiance.

It was a tender, silvery day, fair, mild, pensive, with light shadows and a capricious sun.
There had been a storm of rain the night before, and it was as if Nature had repented of her
wildness, and sought forgiveness by all sorts of winsome arts, insinuating invitations, soft
caresses, and melting coquetries of demeanour.

Broona and Jackeen had lunched with us at the Old Hall, and, inebriated by broiled chicken,
green peas, and a half holiday, flitted like fireflies through Aunt David's garden, showing
all its treasures to the two new friends, already in high favour.

Benella, it is unnecessary to say, had confided her entire past life to Himself after a few
hours' acquaintance, while both he and Ronald, concealing in the most craven manner their original
objections to the part she proposed to play in our triangular alliance, thanked her, with tears
in their eyes, for her devotion to their sovereign ladies.

We had tea in the Italian garden at Rosnaree, and Dr. Gerald, arm in arm with Himself, walked
between its formal flower borders, along its paths of golden gravel, and among its spirelike
cypresses and fountains, where balustrades and statues, yellowed and stained with age (stains
which Benella longs to scrub away), make the brilliant turf even greener by contrast.

Tea was to have been followed in due course by dinner, but we all agreed that nothing should
induce us to go indoors on such a beautiful evening; so baskets were packed, and we went in
rowboats to a picnic supper on Illanroe, a wee island in Lough Beg.

I can close my eyes to-day and see the picture--the lonely little lake, as blue in the sunshine
as the sky above it, but in the twilight first brown and cool, then flushed with the sunset.
The distant hills, the rocks, the heather, wore tints I never saw them wear before. The singing
wavelets 'spilled their crowns of white upon the beach' across the lake, and the wild-flowers
in the clear shallows near us grew so close to the brink that they threw their delicate reflections
in the water, looking up at us again framed in red-brown grasses.

By and by the moon rose out of the pearl-greys and ambers in the east, bevies of black rooks
flew homeward, and stillness settled over the face of the brown lake. Darkness shut us out
from Devorgilla; and though we could still see the glimmer of the village lights, it seemed
as if we were in a little world of our own.

It was useless for Salemina to deny herself to the children, for was she not going to leave
them on the morrow? She sat under the shadow of a thorn bush, and the two mites, tired with
play, cuddled themselves by her side, unreproved. She looked tenderly, delectably feminine.
The moon shone full upon her face; but there are no ugly lines to hide, for there are no parched
and arid places in her nature. Dews of sympathy, sweet spring floods of love and compassion,
have kept all fresh, serene, and young.

We had been gay, but silence fell upon us as it had fallen upon the lake. There would be only
a day or two in Dublin, whither Dr. Gerald was going with us, that he might have the last word
and hand-clasp before we sailed away from Irish shores; and so near was the parting that we
were all, in our hearts, bidding farewell to the Emerald Isle.

Good-bye, Silk of the Kine! I was saying to myself, calling the friendly spot by one of the
endearing names given her by her lovers in the sad old days. Good-bye, Little Black Rose, growing
on the stern Atlantic shore! Good-bye, Rose of the World, with your jewels of emerald and amethyst,
the green of your fields and the misty purple of your hills! Good-bye, Shan Van Vocht, Poor
Little Old Woman! We are going back, Himself and I, to the Oilean Ur, as you used to call our
new island--going back to the hurly-burly of affairs, to prosperity and opportunity; but we
shall not forget the lovely Lady of Sorrows looking out to the west with the pain of a thousand
years in her ever youthful eyes. Good-bye, my Dark Rosaleen, good-bye!

Chapter XXXII.

Here we all are at O'Carolan's Hotel in Dublin--all but the Colquhouns, who bade us adieu at
the station, and the dear children, whose tears are probably dried by now, although they flowed
freely enough at parting. Broona flung her arms tempestuously around Salemina's neck, exclaiming
between her sobs, "Good-bye, my thousand, thousand blessings!"--an expression so Irish that
we laughed and cried in one breath at the sound of it.

Here we are in the midst of life once more, though to be sure it is Irish life, which moves
less dizzily than our own. We ourselves feel thoroughly at home, nor are we wholly forgotten
by the public; for on beckoning to a driver on the cab-stand to approach with his side-car,
he responded with alacrity, calling to his neighbour, "Here's me sixpenny darlin' again!" and
I recognised him immediately as a man who had once remonstrated with me eloquently on the subject
of a fee, making such a fire of Hibernian jokes over my sixpence that I heartily wished it
had been a half-sovereign.

Cables and telegrams are arriving every hour, and a rich American lady writes to Salemina,
asking her if she can purchase the Book of Kells for her, as she wishes to give it to a favourite
nephew who is a bibliomaniac. I am begging the shocked Miss Peabody to explain that the volume
in question is not for sale, and to ask at the same time if her correspondent wishes to purchase
the Lakes of Killarney or the Giant's Causeway in its stead. Francesca, in a whirl of excitement,
is buying cobweb linens, harp brooches, creamy poplins with golden shamrocks woven into their
lustrous surfaces; and as for laces, we spend hours in the shops, when our respective squires
wish us to show them the sights of Dublin.

Benella is in her element, nursing Salemina, who sprained her ankle just as we were leaving
Devorgilla. At the last moment our side-cars were so crowded with passengers and packages that
she accepted a seat in Dr. Gerald's carriage, and drove to the station with him. She had a
few last farewells to say in the village, and a few modest remembrances to leave with some
of the poor old women; and I afterward learned that the drive was not without its embarrassments.
The butcher's wife said fervently, "May you long be spared to each other!" The old weaver exclaimed,
"'Twould be an ojus pity to spoil two houses wid ye!" While the woman who sells apples at the
station capped all by wishing the couple "a long life and a happy death together." No wonder
poor Salemina slipped and twisted her ankle as she alighted from the carriage! Though walking
without help is still an impossibility, twenty-four hours of rubbing and bathing and bandaging
have made it possible for her to limp discreetly, and we all went to St. Patrick's Cathedral
together this morning.

We had been in the quiet churchyard, where a soft, misty rain was falling on the yellow acacias
and the pink hawthorns. We had stood under the willow-tree in the deanery garden--the tree
that marks the site of the house from which Dean Swift watched the movements of the torches
in the cathedral at the midnight burial of Stella. They are lying side by side at the foot
of a column in the south side of the nave, and a brass plate in the pavement announces:--

'Here lies Mrs. Hester Johnson, better known to the world by the name of Stella, under which
she is celebrated in the writings of Dr. Jonathan Swift, Dean of this Cathedral.'

Poor Stella, at rest for a century and a half beside the man who caused her such pangs of love
and grief--who does not mourn her?

The nave of the cathedral was dim, and empty of all sightseers save our own group. There was
a caretaker who went about in sloppy rubber shoes, scrubbing marbles and polishing brasses,
and behind a high screen or temporary partition some one was playing softly on an organ.

We stood in a quiet circle by Stella's resting-place, and Dr. Gerald, who never forgets anything,
apparently, was reminding us of Thackeray's gracious and pathetic tribute:--

'Fair and tender creature, pure and affectionate heart!

"The organist must be practising for a wedding," said Francesca, very much alive to anything
of that sort.

     "'Oh, there's nothing half so sweet in life,'"

she hummed. "Isn't it charming?"

"You ought to know," Dr. Gerald answered, looking at her affectionately, though somewhat too
sadly for my taste; "but an old fellow like me must take refuge in the days of 'milder, calmer
beam,' of which the poet speaks."

Ronald and Himself, guide-books in hand, walked away to talk about the 'Burial of Sir John
Moore,' and look for Wolfe's tablet, and I stole behind the great screen which had been thrown
up while repairs of some sort were being made or a new organ built. A young man was evidently
taking a lesson, for the old organist was sitting on the bench beside him, pulling out the
stops, and indicating the time with his hand. There was to be a wedding--that was certain;
for 'Love's Young Dream' was taken off the music rack at that moment, while 'Believe me, if
all those endearing young charms' was put in its place, and the melody came singing out to
us on the vox humana stop. "Penny dear, when all is said, 'Believe me' is the dearer song of
the two. Anybody can sing, feel, live, the first, which is but a youthful dream, after all;
but the other has in it the proved fidelity of the years. The first song belongs to me, I know,
and it is all I am fit for now; but I want to grow toward and deserve the second."

"You are right; but while Love's Young Dream is yours and Ronald's, dear, take all the joy
that it holds for you. The other song is for Salemina and Dr. Gerald, and I only hope they
are realising it at this moment--secretive, provoking creatures that they are!"

The old organist left his pupil just then, and disappeared through a little door in the rear.

"Have you the Wedding March there?" I asked the pupil who had been practising the love-songs.

"Oh yes, madam, though I am afraid I cannot do it justice," he replied modestly. "Are you interested
in organ music?"

"I am very much interested in yours, and I am still more interested in a romance that has been
dragging its weary length along for twenty years, and is trying to bring itself to a crisis
just on the other side of that screen. You can help me precipitate it, if you only will!"

Well, he was young and he was an Irishman, which is equivalent to being a born lover, and he
had been brought up on Tommy Moore and music--all of which I had known from the moment I saw
him, else I should not have made the proposition. I peeped from behind the screen. Ronald and
Himself were walking toward us; Salemina and Dr. Gerald were sitting together in one of the
front pews. I beckoned to my husband.

"Will you and Ronald go quietly out one of the side doors," I asked, "take your own car, and
go back to the hotel, allowing us to follow you a little later?"

It takes more than one year of marriage for even the cleverest Benedict to uproot those weeds
of stupidity, denseness, and non-comprehension that seem to grow so riotously in the mental
garden of the bachelor; so, said Himself, "We came all together; why shouldn't we go home all
together?" (So like a man! Always reasoning from analogy; always, so to speak, 'lugging in' logic!)

"Desperate situations demand desperate remedies," I replied mysteriously, though I hope patiently.
"If you go home at once without any questions, you will be virtuous, and it is more than likely
that you will also be happy; and if you are not, somebody else will be."

Having seen the backs of our two cavaliers disappearing meekly into the rain, I stationed Francesca
at a point of vantage, and went out to my victims in the front pew.

"The others went on ahead," I explained, with elaborate carelessness--"they wanted to drive
by Dublin Castle; and we are going to follow as we like. For my part, I am tired, and you are
looking pale, Salemina; I am sure your ankle is painful. Help her, Dr. Gerald, please; she
is so proud and self-reliant that she won't even lean on any one's arm, if she can avoid it.
Take her down the middle aisle, for I've sent your car to that door" (this was the last of
a series of happy thoughts on my part). "I'll go and tell Francesca, who is flirting with the
organist. She has an appointment at the tailor's; so I will drop her there, and join you at
the hotel in a few minutes."

The refractory pair of innocent, middle-aged lovers started, arm in arm, on what I ardently
hoped would be an eventful walk together. It was from, instead of toward the altar, to be sure,
but I was certain it would finally lead them to it, notwithstanding the unusual method of approach.
I gave Francesca the signal, and then, disappearing behind the screen, I held her hand in a
palpitation of nervous apprehension that I had scarcely felt when Himself first asked me to be his.

The young organist, blushing to the roots of his hair, trembling with responsibility, smiling
at the humour of the thing, pulled out all the stops, and the Wedding March pealed through
the cathedral, the splendid joy and swing and triumph of it echoing through the vaulted aisles
in a way that positively incited one to bigamy.

"We may regard the matter as settled now," whispered Francesca comfortably. "Anybody would
ask anybody else to marry him, whether he was in love with her or not. If it weren't so beautiful
and so touching, wouldn't it be amusing? Isn't the organist a darling, and doesn't he enter
into the spirit of it? See him shaking with sympathetic laughter, and yet he never lets a smile
creep into the music; it is all earnestness and majesty. May I peep now and see how they are
getting on?"

"Certainly not! What are you thinking of, Francesca? Our only justification in this whole matter
is that we are absolutely serious about it. We shall say good-bye to the organist, wring his
hand gratefully, and steal with him through the little door. Then in a half-hour we shall know
the worst or the best; and we must remember to send him cards and a marked copy of the newspaper
containing the marriage notice."

Salemina told me all about it that night, but she never suspected the interference of any deus
ex machina save that of the traditional God of Love, who, it seems to me, has not kept up with
the requirements of the age in all respects, and leaves a good deal for us women to do nowadays.

"Would that you had come up this aisle to meet me, Salemina, and that you were walking down
again as my wife!" This was what Dr. Gerald had surprised her by saying, when the wedding music
had finally entered into his soul, driving away for the moment his doubt and fear and self-distrust;
and I can well believe that the hopelessness of his tone stirred her tender heart to its very
depths.

"What did you answer?" I asked breathlessly, on the impulse of the moment.

We were talking by the light of a single candle. Salemina turned her head a little aside, but
there was a look on her face that repaid me for all my labour and anxiety, a look in which
her forty years melted away and became as twenty, a look that was the outward and visible expression
of the inward and spiritual youth that has always been hers; then she replied simply--"I told
him what is true: that my life had been one long coming to meet him, and that I was quite ready
to walk with him to the end of the world."

                   .    .    .    .    .    .

I left her to her thoughts, which I well knew were more precious than my words, and went across
the hall, where Benella was packing Francesca's last purchases. Ordinarily one of us manages
to superintend such operations, as the Derelict's principal aim is to make two garments go
where only one went before. Nature in her wildest moments never abhorred a vacuum in her dominion
as Miss Dusenberry resents it in a trunk.

"Benella," I said, in that mysterious whisper which one uses for such communications, "Dr.
La Touche has asked Miss Peabody to marry him, and she has consented."

"It was full time!" the Derelict responded, with a deep sigh of relief, "but better late than
never! Men folks are so queer, I don't hardly know how a merciful Providence ever came to invent
'em! Either they're so bold they'd propose to the Queen o' Sheba without mindin' it a mite,
or else they're such scare-cats you 'bout have to ask 'em yourself, and then lug 'em to the
minister's afterwards--there don't seem to be no halfway with 'em. Well, I'm glad you're all
settled; it must be nice to have folks!"

It was a pathetic little phrase, and I fancied I detected a tear in her usually cheerful and
decided voice. Acting on the suspicion, I said hurriedly, "You have already had a share of
Miss Monroe's 'folks' and mine offered you, and now Miss Peabody will be sure to add hers to
the number. Your only difficulty will be to attend to them all impartially, and keep them from
quarrelling as to which shall have you next."

She brightened visibly. "Yes," she assented, without any superfluous modesty,--squeezing as
she spoke a pair of bronze slippers into the crown of Francesca's favourite hat--"yes, that
part'll be hard on all of us; but I want you to know that I belong to you this winter, any
way; Miss Peabody can get along without me better'n you can."

Her glance was freighted with a kind of evasive, half-embarrassed affection; shy, unobtrusive,
respectful it was, but altogether friendly and helpful.

That the relations between us have ever quite been those of mistress and maid, I cannot affirm.
We have tried to persuade ourselves that they were at least an imitation of the proper thing,
just to maintain our self-respect while travelling in a country of monarchical institutions,
but we have always tacitly understood the real situation and accepted its piquant incongruities.

So when I met Benella Dusenberry's wistful, sympathetic eye, my republican head, reckless of
British conventions, found the maternal hollow in her spinster shoulder as I said, "Dear old
Derelict! it was a good day for us when you drifted into our harbour!"