It was appalling, this citadel; it dominated the entire land. Perched on a peak of basalt,
it overhung an abyss in which Asphalitis, the Bitter Sea, lay, a stretch of sapphire to the
sun. In the distance were the heights of Abraham, the crests of Gilead. Before it was the infinite,
behind it the desert. At its base a hamlet crouched, and a path hewn in the rock crawled in
zigzags to its gates. Irregular walls surrounded it, in some places a hundred cubits high,
and in each of the many angles was a turret. Seen from below it was a threat in stone, but
within was a caress, one of those rapturous palaces that only the Orientals build. It was called
Machærus. Peopled with slaves and legends, it was a haunt of ghosts and fierce delights.

And now as Mary tripped before the prophet the walls alone repelled. The terrace was a garden
in which were lilies and sentries. For entrance there was a portal of red porphyry, above which
was a balcony hemmed by a balustrade of yellow Numidian stone.

Against it Antipas leaned. He had been eyeing the desert in tremulous surmise. The day before,
he had caught the glitter of lances, therewith spirals of distant smoke, and he had become
fearful lest Aretas, that king of Arabia Petræa whose daughter he had deserted, might be meditating
attack. But now there was nothing, at most a triangular mass speeding westwards, of which only
the edges moved, and which he knew to be a flight of cranes.

He took heart again and gazed in the valley below. It was the anniversary of his birth. To
celebrate it he had invited the stewards of his lands, the notables of Galilee, the elect of
Jerusalem, the procurator of Judæa, the emir of Tadmor, mountaineers and Pharisees, Scribes
and herdsmen.

But in the valley only a few shepherds were visible. Along the ramparts soldiers paced. At
the further end of the terrace a group of domestics was busy with hampers and luggage. The
day was solemnly still, exquisitely clear; and between two hills came a glare of gold projected
from the Temple of Jerusalem.

Through the silence rang the tinkle of the rattles that Mary wore. The prophet was beckoning her.

“And Martha?” the tetrarch heard him ask.

The pirouette ceased awkwardly. Mary’s eyes forgot their compliments. Her brows contracted,
and, as though perplexed, she held her head a little to one side.

“There,” he added, “there, I know you well. It was at Bethany I saw you first. Yes, yes, I
remember perfectly; you were leaving, and Martha was in tears. Only a little since I had speech
with her. She spoke of you; she knew you were called the Magdalen. No,” he continued, for Mary
had shrunk back, “no, I will not curse. There is another by whom you will be blessed.”

Mary laughed. “I am going to Rome. Tiberius will give me a palace. I shall sleep on the down
the Teutons bring. I shall drink pearls dissolved in falernian. I shall sup on peacocks’ tongues.”

“No, Mary, Rome you will never see. The Eternal has you in His charge. Your shame will be washed
away.”

“Shame to you,” she interrupted. “Shame and starvation too.” She made as though she were about
to pirouette again. “Whom are you talking of?”

“One whose shoes I am unworthy to bear.”

For a moment he seemed to meditate; then, with the melancholy of one renounceing some immense
ambition, he murmured, half to himself, half to the sky, “For him to increase I must diminish.”

“As for that, you are not much to look at now. I must go. I must braid my hair; the emir’s
eyes are eager.”

“Mary,” he hissed, and the sudden asperity of his voice coerced her as a bit might do, “you
will go to Capharnahum, you will seek him, you will say Iohanan is descended into the tombs
to announce the Son of David.”

Through the lateral entrance to the terrace a number of guests had entered. From the balcony
above, Antipas leaned and listened. Some one touched him; it was Herodias.

“The procurator is coming,” she announced. “You should be at the gate.”

“Ah!”

He seemed indifferent. What Iohanan had said concerning the Son of David stirred him like the
point of a sword. He felt that there could be no such person; his father had put a stop to
all that. And yet, if there were!

His indifference surprised Herodias.

“What are you staring at?” she asked; and to assure herself she looked over the balustrade.
“That carrion? You should——”

Her hand drawn across her throat completed the sentence.

The tetrarch shook his head. There was no hurry. Then, too, the prophet was useful. He reviled
Jerusalem, and that flattered Galilee. But there was another reason, which he kept to himself.
Iohanan affected him as no one had done before.

He feared him, chained though he was, and into that fear something akin to admiration entered.
In his heart he wished he had let him alone. No, there was no hurry. As he assured her of that
the prophet looked up.

“Jezebel!”

The guests approached. Their number had increased. There were Greek merchants from Hippos and
Sepphoris, Pharisees from Jericho, and Scribes from Jerusalem. Herodias clapped her hands.
A negro, naked to the waist, appeared.

“Take him below.”

But the guests surrounded Iohanan. The Pharisees recognized him at once. He was the terror
of the hierarchs.

As he cried out at Herodias he seemed as though he would rise and wrench his bonds and mount
to where she was. His eyes had lost their pathos; they blazed.

“Woe unto you!” he shouted, “and woe unto your barren bed! Though you hid in the bowels of
the earth, in the uttermost depths of a jungle, the stench of your incest would betray you.
Woe unto you, I say; the swine will turn from you, the Eternal will rend you, and the heart
of hell will vomit you back!”

Herodias shook with anger. She was livid. Murmurs circulated through the increasing throng.

The Pharisees edged nearer. On their foreheads were slips of vellum on which passages of the
Law had been inscribed. About their left arms other slips extended spiralwise from the elbow
to the end of the third finger. They were in white; where their garments had become soiled,
the spots had been chalked.

To them the prophet showed his teeth. “And woe unto you too, race of vipers, bladders of wind!
As the fire devours the stubble, and the flame consumes the chaff, so your root will be rottenness
and your seed go up as dust. Fear will engulf you like a torrent. The high peaks will be broken,
the mountains will sever, and night be upon all. The valleys and hills will be strewn with
your corpses, the rocks will run with your blood, the plain will drink it, and the vultures
feast on your flesh. Woe unto you all, I say, that call good evil, and evil good!”

The invective continued. It enveloped the world. Everything was to be destroyed. Presently
it subsided; the voice of the prophet sank lower; his eyes sought the sky, the pupils dilated;
and the dream of his nation, the triumphant future, the sanctification of the faithful, the
magnificence that was to be, poured rapturously from his lips.

“The whole land will glow with glory. The sky will be a rose in bloom. The meadows will rejoice,
and the earth will be filled with men and maidens singing and kneeling to Thee, Immanuel, whom
I await.”

The vision would have expanded, perhaps, but the chain that bound him was loosed, sinewy arms
were dragging him away. As he went, he glared up again at Herodias. His face had lost its beatitude.

“You will be stripped of your purple, Jezebel; your diadem will be trodden under foot. The
pains of a woman in travail will be as joys unto yours. There will be not enough stones to
throw at you, and the abomination of your lust will bellow, Accursed, even beyond the tomb.”

The anathema fainted in the distance. The Scribes consulted between their teeth. By the Pharisees
Antipas was blamed. A merchant from Hippos did not understand, and the Law was explained. That
a man should marry his brother’s wife was a duty, only in this instance it had not occurred
to the brother to die beforehand. Then, again, by her first husband Herodias had a child, and
in that was the abomination.

The merchant did not wholly grasp the distinction, but he nodded as though he had.

“There was a child, was there?”

A captain of the garrison answered: “A girl, Salomè.”

He said nothing further, but the merchant could see that his mouth watered at the thought of her.

The crowd had become very dense. Suddenly a trumpet blared. At the gate was Pontius Pilate.
On his head was a high and dazzling helmet. His tunic was short, open at the neck. His legs
were bare. He was shod with shoes that left the toes exposed. From his cuirass a gorgon’s head
had, in deference to local prejudice, been effaced; in its stead were scrolls and thunderbolts.
From the belt rows of straps, embroidered and fringed, fell nearly to the knee. He held his
head in the air. His features were excellent, and his beard hung in rows of short overlapping
curls.

Behind him was his body-guard. Before him Antipas stood, welcoming the Roman in Greek.

In the sky now were the advancing steps of night; in crevices of the basalt the leaves of the
baaras weed had begun to flicker. It was time for the festival to begin; and, preceding the
guests, Antipas passed into a hall beyond.

It was oblong, curved at the ends, and so vast that the roof was vague. On the walls were slabs
of different colors, marble spotted like the skin of serpents, and onyx flecked with violet.
On two sides were galleries supported by columns of sandstone. A third gallery formed a semicircle.
Opposite, at the further end, on a dais, was the table of the tetrarch.

Antipas faced the assemblage. At his left was the procurator, at his right the emir of Tadmor.
Curtains were looped on either side. Above were panels; they separated, and flowers fell. On
a little stool next to the couch on which the emir lay was a beautiful boy with curly hair.
The couch of the procurator was covered with a dim Babylonian shawl. That of the tetrarch was
of ivory incrusted with gold. All three were cushioned.

As the guests entered they were sprinkled with perfume. Throughout the length of the hall other
tables extended, and at these they found seats and food: Syrian radishes, melons from the oases
near the Oxus, white olives from Bethany, honey from Capharnahum, and the little onions of
Ascalon. There were candelabra everywhere, liquids cooled with snow, cheeses big as millstones,
chunks of fat in wooden bowls, and behind the tables, slaves with copper platters. On the platters
were quarters of red beef, breams swimming in grease, and sunbirds with their plumage on. In
the semicircular gallery musicians played, three notes, constantly repeated.

The tetrarch’s table was spread with a cloth of byssus striped with Laconian green. On it were
jars of murrha filled with balsam, Sidonian goblets of colored glass, jasper amphoræ, and water-melons
from Egypt. Before the procurator was a dish of oysters, lampreys, and boned barbels, mixed
well together, flavored with cinnamon and assafœtida; mashed grasshoppers baked in saffron;
and a roasted boar, the legs curled inward, the eyes half-closed. The emir ate abundantly of
heron’s eggs whipped with wine into an amber foam. When his fingers were soiled, he wiped them
in the curls of the beautiful boy who sat near by.

The smell of food filled the hall, mounted to the roof. The atmosphere was that of a bath,
and the wines were heady. Already discussions had arisen. A mountaineer and a Galilean skiffsman
had been dragged away, the one senseless, the other with features indistinguishable and masked
in blood. It was a great festival, and the tetrarch was entertaining, as only he could, his
friends, his enemies, and whoever chanced that way.

“As a child he rubbed his body with the leaves of the cnyza, which is a preservative of chastity.”
It was a little man with restless eyes and a very long white beard detailing the virtues of
Iohanan. “But,” he added, “he must have found cold water better.”

His neighbors laughed. One pounded the table.

“Jeshua—” he began, but everyone was talking at once.

“Jeshua—” he continued; yet, as no one would listen, he turned to a passing eunuch and caught
him by the arm—“Jeshua does more; he works miracles, and not with the cnyza either.”

The eunuch eluded him and escaped. However, he would not be balked; he stood up and, through
the din, he shouted at the little man:

“Baba Barbulah, I tell you he is the Messiah!”

His voice was so loud it dominated the hubbub, and suddenly the hubbub ceased.

From the dais Pontius Pilate listened indifferently. Antipas held his hands behind his ears
that he might hear the better. The emir paid no attention at all. On his head was a conical
turban; about it were loops of sapphire and coils of pearl. He wore a vest with scant sleeves
that reached to the knuckles, and trousers that overhung the instep and fell in wide wrinkles
on his feet; both were of leopard-skin. Over the vest was a sleeveless tunic, clasped at the
shoulders and girt at the waist. His hair was long, plentifully oiled; his beard was bushy,
blue-black, and specked with silver.

Mary had approached. From the lessening waist to the slender feet her dress opened at either
side. Beneath was a chemise of transparent Bactrianian tissue. From girdle to armpits were
little clasps; on her ankles, bands; and above the elbow, on her bare white arm, two circlets
of emeralds from the mines of Djebel Zabur.

The emir spoke to her. She listened with a glimpse of the most beautiful teeth in the world.
He put out a hand tentatively and touched her: the tissue of her garment crackled and emitted
sparks. He raised a goblet to her. The wine it held was yellower than the marigold. She brushed
it with her lips; he drank it off, then, refreshed, he looked her up and down.

In one hand she held a cup of horn, narrower at the top than at the end; in it were dice made
of the knee-joints of gazelles, and these she rattled in his beard.

“That beautiful Sultan, will he play?”

With an ochre-tipped finger she pointed at the turban on his head. The eyes of the emir vacillated.
He undid a string of gems and placed them on the table’s edge. Mary unclasped a coil of emeralds
and rattled the dice again. She held the cup high up, then spilled the contents out.

“Ashtaroth!” the emir cried. He had won.

Mary leaned forward, fawned upon his breast, and gazed into his face. Her breath had the fragrance
of his own oasis, her lips were moist as the pomegranate’s pulp, her teeth as keen as his own
desire.

“No, beautiful Sultan, it is I.” With the back of her hand she disturbed the dice. “I am Ashtaroth,
am I not?”

Questioningly the emir explored the unfathomable eyes that gazed into his.

On their surface floated an acquiescence to the tacit offer of his own. Then he nodded, and
Mary turned and gathered the jewels from the cloth of byssus where they lay.

“I tell you he is the Messiah!” It was the angry disputant shouting at the little man.

“Who is? What are you talking about?”

Though the hubbub had ceased, throughout the hall were the mutterings of dogs disturbed.

“Jeshua,” the disputant answered; “Jeshua the Nazarene.”

A Pharisee, very vexed, his bonnet tottering, gnashed back: “The Messiah will uphold the law;
this Nazarene attacks it.”

A Scribe interrupted: “Many things are to distinguish his advent. The light of the sun will
be increased a hundredfold, the orchards will bear fruit a thousand times more abundantly.
Death will be forgotten, joy will be universal, Elijah will return.”

“But he has!”

Antipas started. The Scribe trembled with rage. But the throng had caught the name of Elijah,
and knew to whom the disputant referred—a man in tattered furs whom a few hours before they
had seen dragged away by a negro naked to the waist, and some one shouted:

“Iohanan is Elijah.”

Baba Barbulah stood up and turned to whence the voice had come:

“In the footprints of the Anointed impudence shall increase, and the face of the generation
shall be as the face of a dog. It may be,” he added, significantly—“it may be that you speak
the truth.”

The sarcasm was lost. The musicians in the gallery, who had been playing on flute and timbrel,
began now on the psalteron and the native sambuca. Behind was a row of lute-players; but most
in view was a trignon, an immense Egyptian harp, at which with nimble fingers a fair girl plucked.

In the shadow Herodias leaned. At a signal from her the musicians attacked the prelude of a
Syrian dance, and in the midst of the assemblage a figure veiled from head to foot suddenly
appeared. For a moment it stood very still; then the veil fell of itself, and from the garrison
a shout went up:

“Salomè! Salomè!”

Her hair, after an archaic Chanaanite fashion, was arranged in the form of a tower. Her high
bosom was wound about with protecting bands. Her waist was bare. She wore long pink drawers
of silk, and for girdle she had the blue buds of the lotus, which are symbols of virginity.
She was young and exquisitely formed. In her face you read strange records, and on her lips
were promises as rare. Her eyes were tortoise-shell, her hair was black as guilt.

The prelude had ceased, the movement quickened. With a gesture of abandonment the girl threw
her head back, and, her arms extended, she fluttered like a butterfly on a rose. She ran forward.
The sambuca rang quicker, the harp quicker yet. She threw herself to one side, then to the
other, her hips swaying as she moved. The buds at her girdle fell one by one; she was dancing
on flowers, her hips still swaying, her waist advancing and retreating to the shiver of the
harp. She was elusive as dream, subtle as love; she intoxicated and entranced; and finally,
as she threw herself on her hands, her feet, first in the air and then slowly descending, touched
the ground, while her body straightened like a reed, there was a long growl of unsatisfied content.

She was kneeling now before the dais. Pilate compared her to Bathylle, a mime whom he had applauded
at Rome. The tetrarch was purple; he gnawed his under lip. For the moment he forgot everything
he should have remembered—the presence of his guests, the stains of his household, his wife
even, whose daughter this girl was—and in a gust of passion he half rose from his couch.

“Come to me,” he cried. “But come to me, and ask whatever you will.”

Salomè hesitated and pouted, the point of her tongue protruding between her lips.

“Come to me,” he pleaded; “you shall have slaves and palaces and cities; you shall have hills
and intervales. I will give you anything; half my kingdom if you wish.”

There was a tinkle of feet; the girl had gone. In a moment she returned, and balancing herself
on one foot, she lisped very sweetly: “I should like by and by to have you give me the head
of Iohanan—” she looked about; in the distance a eunuch was passing, a dish in his hand, and
she added, “on a platter.”

