"Do you want to know what happened next?  I'll lay that you've wondered many a time just what
happened after you had so strangely dropped asleep, with your head in your plate.  Well, I'll
tell you what happened.  I sent Stord on the run to Baintree's hotel.  He bore a message from
you.  He told the dear captain that you were ill, on your ship, and that you wished very much
to see him.  You can guess how the old fool would act in a case like that.  A chance to do
a good deed, store up treasures in heaven, all that, eh?  You might have been a bad man in
Freeport, but, you were sick and needed him.

"He came in a hurry, all a-flutter like an old hen.  Just as I knew he would come.  And as
he leaned over you, in your own cabin, I--er--separated him from his temporal worries with
an iron belaying pin from your own rail.  Then I gave you the clout for luck (it has left a
fine scar, I note) and placed the pin on the table.  And thus your chief mate discovered you
when he came on board, you and your victim, and the weapon you used, just as I planned.  And
your steward's testimony, and my reluctant admissions, finished you.  You see, Roy--neatness
and thoroughness!

"I took Stord to sea with me, as my steward.  But, unfortunately, he went over the side one
dark night, off the Horn.  A loose end tucked in, eh, Roy?

"And I'll tuck in other loose ends between now and dawn--you, for instance, and our brave Mister
Lynch.  I have it already written down for Fitz to copy into the logbook.  'During the fighting,
James Lynch, second mate, was stabbed by one of the mutineers; but owing to the darkness and
confusion his assailant was not recognized.'  That's how the log will read when we bowse into
port.  And--'During the fighting, the sailor, Newman, attempted to escape from custody, and
was shot by the captain.'  You see, Roy, everything shipshape!  A line for each in the log--and
two loose ends tucked in--eliminated!

"You will have some time in which to think it over, before it happens, Roy.  You should thank
me for that--for giving you something to think about.  It will take your mind off your pain,
eh?  Yes, you need something to think about, for you'll hang there for four or five hours yet.
No danger of your sleeping, eh, Roy?  Well, keep your ears open and you'll be forewarned. 
There'll be some shooting on deck.  I've gone to a great deal of trouble to bring it about;
your shipmates are a gutless crew, Roy, and I had begun to think I could not get a fight out
of them.  But the swabs are coming aft at the end of the mid-watch. Eight bells in the mid-watch--count
the bells, Roy.  Eight bells--elimination!

"Then there will be just one loose end left--and you know what I have planned for her!  Think
about it, Roy--think about our darling little Mary!  At the mercy of the wolves, Roy!  At the
mercy of our dear, gentle Fitzgibbon!  At the mercy--yes, I do believe at the mercy, also,
of my new second mate.

"Oh, yes, he is already nominated for the office.  Of course, he must first remove the incumbent--but
that, as I explained, is arranged for. He is a greasy cockney, gutter-snipe--but useful.  I
wouldn't think of having him at table with me, Roy--but I think I'll let him amuse himself
with Mary--after Fitz!  Ah, that stings, eh, Roy!"

It did, indeed.  Newman lifted the face of a madman to his torturer. Aye, the creature's vile
words, and viler threat, had stung him beyond his power of self-control.  All the pent-up fury
in his soul burst forth in one explosive oath.

"God blast you forever, Angus!" he cried.

Just that, and no more.  Newman had his grip again.  He was no man to indulge in impotent ravings.

But the outburst was sufficient to delight Captain Swope.  He threw back his head and laughed
that chuckling, demon's laugh of his. Delighted--why, he could hardly control himself to keep
his seat on the keg, and as he laughed his feet beat a jig upon the deck.

"I told you to call upon God!" was his gleeful answer to Newman.  "And you have!  Now, we'll
see who wins--you and God, or Angus and the Devil!  Eh, Roy--who wins?

"We'll see, Roy--we'll see if God takes your advice.  We'll see if He helps you, or Lynch.
Or Mary.  Ah, the saintly Mary, the pure, the unapproachable!  We'll see if He protects her
from Fitz's dirty arms, or the greasy kisses of the Cockney!  Eh, Roy?  We'll see if He keeps
her from--eliminating herself!

"That's the way of it, Roy.  Clever--yes?  Neatness and thoroughness, and everything shipshape
and Bristol fashion--that's my style, Roy.  I know Mary (who should know her better than her
legal spouse, eh, Roy?) and I have arranged matters so she will tuck in her own end.  Listen,
Roy, I have another item for the logbook which Fitzgibbon will copy. It needs but a date-line
to be complete.  It will read like this: 'To-day, while suffering from an attack of temporary
insanity, the captain's wife destroyed herself.  The captain is broken-hearted.' With details
added, Roy.  And the yarn cabled home when we make port. Suicide at sea--and I am broken-hearted!
Artistic, eh?  And she'll do it--you know she'll do it!"

He sat there watching Newman, waiting.  I suppose he expected and desired a fresh outburst
from the prisoner.  But in this he was disappointed; Newman gave no sign.

"Ah, well, I fear I've overstayed my welcome this visit," he said, finally.  He got to his
feet, and stood before Newman with legs spraddled and arms akimbo; drinking in lustfully the
picture of the other man's utter misery.  "Interesting chat we've had--old times, future, and
all that--eh, Roy?  But a sailor's work, you know--like a woman's--never done.  I have duties
to attend to, Roy.  But I will return--ah, yes, you know I will return.  You'll wait here for
me, eh, Roy?  Anxiously awaiting my return, counting the bells against my coming.  Well--remember--eight
bells in the middle watch."

He turned and stepped towards the ladder.  With his foot raised to the bottom step, he stopped,
and stared aloft, mouth agape.  I stared too, and listened.

We heard a shot, a single pistol shot.

The captain wheeled upon Newman.  His hand flew to his pistol pocket. But he did not draw.
He would have died then and there, if he had, for I was tensed for the leap.

But he was uncertain.  This was not the hour--and the other shots, the volley, we both expected
did not come.  Instead, came the second mate's voice bellowing orders, "Connolly--the wheel!
Hard alee!  Weather main brace!"  Then, clearer, as he shouted through the cabin skylights,
"Captain--on deck, quick!"

It was the hail for which I had waited so long and anxiously.  But the news that came with
it was strange and startling.

"The man at the wheel," shouted Lynch, "has jumped overboard with the mate!"  Then his cry
went forward, "Man overboard!"

Swope leaped for the ladder.  I saw consternation in his face as he scurried aloft.

So I knew that this was something he hadn't arranged.

CHAPTER XXII

I was at Newman's side before Captain Swope's feet vanished from the ladder.  If he had paused
to close the lazaret hatch behind him, he must surely have seen me.  But he did not pause;
I heard his steps racing up the companion stairs to the poop, and his voice shouting his command:
"Watch the main deck, Mister!  Light a flare!"

I threw my arms about Newman, and babbled in his ear.  "Oh, the beast!--it's I--Jack--the devil,
I heard what he said!--come to free you!"  Truth to tell, the things I had overheard unnerved
me somewhat, and I was incoherent, almost, from rage and horror.

But Newman brought me to myself in short order.  "I know--but not so loud--they'll hear you!"
Aye, his first words, and he smiled into my face.  This man on the rack smiled, and thought
clearly, whilst I babbled.  "Be quick," he bade me.  "Cut the lashings."

I obeyed in jig time.  The chains of both the hand and foot irons were secured to the limbers
by rope lashings.  With two strokes of my knife I severed them.  Before I could catch him,
Newman fell forward upon his face.  His misused limbs could not support him.

I knelt by his side, sobbing and spluttering, and fishing in my pocket for the key the lady
had given me.  It was the sight of his raw, bleeding wrists and ankles that maddened me; aye,
the sight of them would have maddened a saint.  You will recall that the Old Man had commanded
that Newman's wrists be tightly cuffed; and he had seen to it that the leg cuffs were equally
tight.  Tight ironing was a favorite sport of Swope's; he was notorious for it among sailormen.
I saw the results upon Newman.

The flesh above the irons was puffed and inflamed; the constriction and chafing had broken
the skin, and the cuffs upon both arms and legs were buried in the raw wounds.  Exquisite agony--aye,
trust Swope to produce that!  I had to push back the swollen, bruised mass before I could insert
the little flat key, and effect the release.

When I had them off, I turned Newman over on his back, and, with my arm about him, prepared
to lift him erect.  Before I could do so, assistance arrived.  Light feet pattered down the
lazaret ladder; there was a swish of skirts, a gasp, and the lady was on her knees by Newman's
side.  "Roy--Roy--I was in time--" she cried.  Her arms went around his neck.

I released him to her for the instant, and straightened up and listened.  There was noise on
deck, and confusion.  The ship was in stays; she hung there, aback.  I could hear Lynch, somewhere
forward, bawling orders; and overhead, Swope sang out to the wheel, and then hailed the roundhouse.

"Roundhouse, there--on deck and lend a hand!  Man the lifeboat--lifeboat falls, there!  For
God's sake, Mister--what's the matter there on deck?"

Oh, he was worried, was Swope.  It showed in his voice; for once his tone was not full and
musical, it was shrill and screechy.  He was sorely shaken, madly anxious to save his faithful
jackal; the Eliminator had not planned Fitzgibbon's removal.

Thoughts, questions, rushed through my mind.  I listened for other sounds, for shots and shouts
and sounds of strife.  For there was confusion up there on the dark decks, and the captain
had forgotten his caution and withdrawn his ambush.  I knew that Boston and Blackie would not
overlook this chance; promise or no promise they would profit by this occasion.

It was this thought that spurred me to action.  We must get out of this hole we were in; the
lazaret was a trap.  The die was cast; the mutiny was on--or would be in a moment.

I said as much to my companions.  Newman attempted to get to his feet. "A hand, Jack--it must
be stopped," he said.

I gave him the hand.  More than that, I took him upon my back and tottered up the ladder with
him, the lady assisting as well as she was able.  She knew what had happened on deck, and she
told us in a word or two.

