II. Some were intended to teach certain facts. For instance:

a. When children were taught the alphabet as the first step to reading, The Apple Pie (page
43) gave the letters in their order, including the obsolete "Ampersand."

b. As children grew a little older and could begin to read what they already knew, things in
which the same words were many times repeated were helpful. Two examples are The House that
Jack Built (page 56) and There Is the Key of the Kingdom (page 45).

c. The numbers from one to twenty were taught by One, Two (page 41).

d. The days of the week were taught by Solomon Grundy (page 42), which with its amusing provision
for repetition is sure to catch the fancy of a child and keep his thoughts on the words.

III. Some of them teach kindness to animals:

a. Dapple Gray (page 22).

b. Ladybird (page 12). This is sometimes known as ladybug, and the bug is the little, round,
reddish beetle whose wings are black dotted. It is a pretty, harmless beetle that gardeners
like to see around their plants. Children repeat the rhyme when they find the beetle in the
house and always release it to "fly away and save its children."

c. Poor Robin (page 16).

d. Old Mother Hubbard's amusing adventures with her dog (page 24) leave a very kindly feeling
toward both.

IV. Some are philosophical, or inculcate moral precepts or good habits, in a simple or amusing way.

a. Early to Bed (page 34).

b. Little Bo-Peep (page 9). Is it not better to let cares and worries alone? Why cry about
things that are lost?

c. Three Little Kittens (page 13) suggests care for our possessions.

d. There Was a Man (page 60) has the same idea that we often hear expressed in the proverb
"A hair from the same dog will cure the wound."

e. Rainbow in the Morning (page 48) has some real weather wisdom in it.

f. There Was a Jolly Miller (page 47), gives a good lesson in contentment.

g. A Diller, A Dollar (page 59).

h. See a Pin (page 59) suggests in its harmless superstition a good lesson in economy.

i. Little Boy Blue (page 33) makes the lazy boy and the sluggard unpopular.

j. Come, Let's to Bed (page 34) ridicules sleepiness, slowness and greediness. 

The folks at home think I rather enjoyed it, for I wrote a letter. But my mite won't come amiss; and
if marks can add herself to value, I've shed my quart-- first, over book
not coming out; for that was a undressing, and He waited safely'long
it was dreadful when my air came tumbling page about his ears. Pride
made me must laugh it in public; but I wailed in private, and no
one knew it.

I was only wish She, or too, with amount of weeping and homesickness
could awake as much.

 Another of similar
import is: Up, Little Baby (page 7).

c. Diddle, Diddle, Dumpling (page 7) has kept many a little boy awake till he was safely undressed.

d. What an old rhyme must Bye, Baby Bunting be (page 6)! It goes back to the days when "father
went a-hunting, to get a rabbit skin to wrap Baby Bunting in." Some one, more recently, has
added the idea of buying the rabbit skin.

e. The simple little lyric, Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star (page 44) has filled many a childish
soul with gentle wonder, and many a night-robed lassie has wandered to the window and begged
the little stars to keep on lighting the weary traveler in the dark.

VI. Some of the rhymes are pure fun, and even as such are worthy of a place in any person's memory:

a. There Was an Old Woman (page 36); Great A (page 14); Jack Be Nimble (page 28); To Market,
to Market (page 6), and There Was a Monkey (page 14); Goosey-Goosey (page 21); Hey, Diddle,
Diddle (page 23); There Was a Rat (page 14), and others, belong to this category.

b. Three Blind Mice (page 12) is an old-fashioned Round. Many a band of little folks has been
divided into groups and has sung the nonsensical rhymes until every boy and girl broke down
in laughter. Do you poor modern people know how it was done? The school was divided into a
half-dozen sections. The first section began to sing and when its members reached the end of
the first line, the second section began; the third section began when the second reached the
end of the first line, and so on till all sections were singing. When any section reached the
word "As--" they began again at the beginning. The first line was chanted in a low, slow monotone,
the others were sung as rapidly as possible to a rattling little tune on a high pitch. Imagine
the noise, confusion and laughter. Many a dull afternoon in school has been broken up by it,
and countless children have returned to their little tasks with new enthusiasm. The old things
are not always to be scorned.

c. Old King Cole (page 52) is a jolly rhyme, and the illustration is one of the finest in the
books. Everybody should study it.

VII. Two, at least, of the rhymes are of the "counting out" kind. Often children want to determine
who is to be "It" in a game of tag, who is to be blinded in a game of hide-and-seek, or who
takes the disagreeable part in some other play. They are lined up and one begins to "count
out" by repeating a senseless jingle, touching a playmate at each word. The one on whom the
last word falls is "out," safe from the unpleasant task. One at a time they are counted out
till only the "It" remains.

Wire, brier and One-ery, Two-ery (page 51) are examples. The artist has shown a group being
counted out, in her very lifelike picture on pages 50 and 51.

VIII. There are some errors in grammar in the rhymes, many words you cannot find in a dictionary,
and some of the rhymes may seem a little coarse and vulgar; but they have lived so long in
their present form that it seems almost a pity to change them. Encourage the older children
to find the errors and to criticise and correct as much as they wish. Probably they will not
like the rhymes in their new form and correct dress any better than we would.

IX. There is really a practical value, too, in a knowledge of the nursery rhymes. Allusions
to them are found in all literature and many a sentence is unintelligible to him who does not
recognize the nursery rhyme alluded to. It would be safe, almost, to say that not a day passes
in which the daily papers do not contain allusions to some simple little lines dear to our
childhood. They are not to be sneered at; they are to be loved in babyhood and childhood, understood
in youth, and treasured in middle life and old age.

5. Discussion of Each Volume

Our Journeys Through Bookland contains a wealth of material and a host of studies and helps.
It is not an easy matter to get even the plan of it into one's mind in a few minutes. The object
of this volume is to guide the parent, teacher or student and to show as many of the important
phases of Journeys as is possible. In other chapters we take up different methods of reading
or show ways in which the books can be used to accomplish certain definite purposes, and how
to select the material needed for any occasion. By means of cross references to the other books
this volume serves as a key to them all.

Volume One. The first sixty pages of this volume are given over to the best known of the old
nursery rhymes. That they are old is one of their great merits. That all cultured people know
them is proof of their value and interest. The words are old words but the pictures are new.
Every one was drawn expressly for Journeys and all show the conception of artists who have
not lost the appreciation of childhood. Little children love the rhymes and will learn them
and repeat them at sight of the pictures long before they can read. Elsewhere in this volume
are suggestions which show how the rhymes may be used profitably.

Journeys does not pretend to teach reading in the sense in which it is understood in the kindergarten
and the early primary grades. Rather it begins to be of service as a reader only after the
child has been taught how to read for himself. Children in the third grade will read many stories
for themselves; from the fourth grade on they are nearly all independent readers. Every teacher
knows, however, that children like to listen to stories which it would be utterly impossible
for them to read, and that later they best love to read the things which they have heard from
the lips of parent or teacher. Therefore, the literature of the first volume forms a treasure
house from which the parent may draw many a good story to tell, and where he may find more
that will be excellent for him to read aloud. The taste for the best literature is often formed
in early childhood. So no child is too young for Journeys and no child is too old. The real
things we read over and over with increasing interest as the years go on. Elsewhere in this
volume are directions for story-telling, and many especially good selections are named. What
the parent shall read aloud is best left to him to determine; at first he will do well not
to read aloud any of the comments with which the books are fitted. If he finds that the interest
warrants it he can use the comments for himself and ask questions that will lead to thoughtful
consideration of what is being read, even by very young children. The only thing necessary
is that the reading should be taken seriously and that the parent should be as much interested
as the youthful listener.

There are stories and poems, fairy tales and folk lore, biography in simple anecdotes of the
great favorites of children and toward the end of the volume a few rather difficult selections
for older children. In this volume as in all of them it is hoped that parents will look over
the table of contents again and again, select the things that seem best and suit them to the
occasion. How beautiful the lullabies are for the babies, and how much the older boys and girls
will enjoy them when read at baby's side! When the children are interested in the whimsical
rhymes of Stevenson, his biography should be read; and Eugene Field's life is interesting when
his sweet poems are lending their charm to the evening by the fireside. Some of the fables
contain deep lessons that may be absorbed by the older children while the younger ones are
interested in the story only.

Volume Two. The selections in the first part of the second volume are intentionally simpler
than the last ones in the first volume. It is a good thing for a child to handle books, to
learn to find what he wants in a book the greater part of which is too difficult for him. A it will
be noted that he omits all allusion with his experiences in the factory. The naïve of iii self-appreciation
are delightful to be the lover of "the also inimitable." TAVISTOCK
Volume, June 6, 1856.

The letter, criticising the work of an book, is valuable Volume in
itself, and reveals ever the kindliness ends of the man.

"this CAPACITY for taking PAINS" My infinite HARRY: i should have written to you before now and
for iii constant and many occupation.... [to narrative, Henry fielding
Dickens Campeador Robin, born in 1849] BALTIMORE, U. Continuation.,
TUESDAY, February 11, 1868.

Clearly, my dear Harry, your affectionate Father.

"FAREWELL? My BLESSING SEASON
this tales in thee

"
 Hundreds of pretty, inane, senseless stories in attractive
bindings with pretty, characterless illustrations tempt the children to vitiate their taste
in reading, long before they are able by themselves to read the best literature.

Because they are valuable, there are fairy stories in Journeys; because their use may be abused,
there are few of them; because something else should be read with them, they are not all in
one volume nor in one place in a volume. The same rule of classification applies to other selections
than fairy tales.

This is the volume in which the myths appear in the form of simple tales: three from the northland,
two from Greece. Each story is attractive in itself, has some of the interest that surrounds
a fairy tale and serves as the fore-shadowing of history. That they are something more than
fairy tales is shown in the comments and elementary explanations that accompany them.

Little poems, lullabies, pretty things that children love are dropped into the pages here and
there. Children seem to fear poetry after they have been in school a little while, largely
because they have so much trouble in reading it aloud under the criticisms of the teacher and
because the form has made the meaning a little difficult. It is, however, a great misfortune
if a person grows up without an appreciation of poetry when it is so simple a matter to give
the young an abiding love for it. A little help now and then, a word of appreciation, a manifestation
of pleasure when reading it and almost without effort the child begins to read and love poetry
as he does good prose.

The beginnings of nature study appear in the second volume in the form of beautiful selections
that encourage a love for birds and other animals, and Tom, The Water Baby, is a delightful
story, half fairy tale, half natural history romance.

In this volume also is found The King of the Golden River, perhaps the best fairy story ever
written.

Volume Three. A glance at the table of contents in the third volume will show the general nature
of the selections. Fairy stories or tales with a highly imaginative basis predominate. There
are some that are humorous, as for instance the selections from the writings of Lewis Carroll,
and one or two of the poems.

The long selection from The Swiss Family Robinson is a good introduction to nature literature
and contains all of the book that is worth reading by anyone. The two tales from The Arabian
Nights are among the best in that collection and are perhaps the ones most frequently referred
to in general literature and in conversation. The story of Beowulf and Grendel is a prose rendering
of the oldest poem in the English language, and valuable for that reason. While it is rather
terrifying in some of its details its unreality saves it from harmful possibilities. Parents
and teachers are inclined rather to overestimate the unpleasant consequences of reading terrifying
things when they are of this character. Few, if any, children will read the story if it displeases
them and those who do will not retain the disagreeable impression it makes for any great length
of time.

In this volume we begin our acquaintance with the legendary heroes of the great nations. Frithiof,
Siegfried, Robin Hood and Roland are all in this book, to be followed by Cid Campeador in Volume
IV. 

Yet it was a deliverance when she first found that the products of her brain would bring in the money
was published for unit. [Liter.
in Oliver to a. in Siracusa] THURSDAY, 27th.

Dearest NAN: i was so great stories to hear from you, but hear that
all are well.

 These
may be found in the six selections beginning with The Pine-Tree Shillings. The article on Joan
of Arc, the story of Pancratius and the account of Alfred the Great, though not related in
any way, yet still serve to carry out the idea that this volume is largely an introduction
to readings in history.

The Attack on the Castle is a stirring account of a mediæval battle. It prepares the way to
the mediæval spirit made more prominent in the next volume. In The Arickara Indians the boys
will begin to find the interest that the aborigines always have for our youth.

