48.  A CONTRIBUTION BOX
     49.  CONSPICUOUS
     50.  TAIL PIECE
     51.  ONLY A SHRIEK
     52.  "HE ONLY CRY"
     53.  LATE COMERS CARED FOR
     54.  EVIDENTLY DREAMING
     55.  "TURN ON MORE RAIN"
     56.  HARRIS ATTENDING THE OPERA
     57.  PAINTING MY GREAT PICTURE
     58.  OUR START
     59.  AN UNKNOWN COSTUME
     60.  THE TOWER
     61.  SLOW BUT SURE
     62.  THE ROBBER CHIEF
     63.  AN HONEST MAN
     64.  THE TOWN BY NIGHT
     65.  GENERATIONS OF BAREFEET
     66.  OUR BEDROOM
     67.  PRACTICING
     68.  PAWING AROUND
     69.  A NIGHT'S WORK
     70.  LEAVING HEILBRONN
     71.  THE CAPTAIN
     72.  WAITING FOR THE TRAIN

CONTENTS:

CHAPTER VIII The Great French Duel--Mistaken Notions--Outbreak in the French Assembly--Calmness
of M Gambetta--I Volunteer as Second--Drawing up a Will--The Challenge and its Acceptance--Difficulty
in Selection of Weapons--Deciding on Distance--M. Gambetta's Firmness--Arranging Details--Hiring
Hearses--How it was Kept from the Press--March to the Field--The Post of Danger--The Duel--The
Result--General Rejoicings--The only One Hurt--A Firm Resolution

CHAPTER IX At the Theatre--German Ideal--At the Opera--The Orchestra--Howlings and Wailings--A
Curious Play--One Season of Rest--The Wedding Chorus--Germans fond of the Opera--Funerals Needed
--A Private Party--What I Overheard--A Gentle Girl--A Contribution--box--Unpleasantly Conspicuous

CHAPTER X Four Hours with Wagner--A Wonderful Singer, Once--" Only a Shriek"--An Ancient Vocalist--"He
Only Cry"--Emotional Germans--A Wise Custom--Late Comers Rebuked--Heard to the Last--No Interruptions
Allowed--A Royal Audience--An Eccentric King--Real Rain and More of It--Immense Success--"Encore!
Encore!"--Magnanimity of the King

CHAPTER XI Lessons in Art--My Great Picture of Heidelberg Castle--Its Effect in the Exhibition--Mistaken
for a Turner--A Studio--Waiting for Orders--A Tramp Decided On--The Start for Heilbronn--Our
Walking Dress--"Pleasant march to you"--We Take the Rail--German People on Board--Not Understood--Speak
only German and English--Wimpfen--A Funny Tower--Dinner in the Garden--Vigorous Tramping--Ride
in a Peasant's Cart--A Famous Room

CHAPTER XII The Rathhaus--An Old Robber Knight, Gotz Von Berlichingen--His Famous Deeds--The
Square Tower--A Curious old Church--A Gay Turn--out--A Legend--The Wives' Treasures--A Model
Waiter--A Miracle Performed--An Old Town--The Worn Stones

CHAPTER XIII Early to Bed--Lonesome--Nervous Excitement--The Room We Occupied--Disturbed by
a Mouse--Grow Desperate--The Old Remedy--A Shoe Thrown--Result--Hopelessly Awake--An Attempt
to Dress--A Cruise in the Dark--Crawling on the Floor--A General Smash-up--Forty-seven Miles'
Travel

CHAPTER XIV A Famous Turn--out--Raftsmen on the Neckar--The Log Rafts--The Neckar--A Sudden
Idea--To Heidelberg on a Raft--Chartering a Raft--Gloomy Feelings and Conversation--Delicious
Journeying--View of the Banks--Compared with Railroading

CHAPTER VIII

The Great French Duel

[I Second Gambetta in a Terrific Duel]

Much as the modern French duel is ridiculed by certain smart people, it is in reality one of
the most dangerous institutions of our day. Since it is always fought in the open air, the
combatants are nearly sure to catch cold. M. Paul de Cassagnac, the most inveterate of the
French duelists, had suffered so often in this way that he is at last a confirmed invalid;
and the best physician in Paris has expressed the opinion that if he goes on dueling for fifteen
or twenty years more--unless he forms the habit of fighting in a comfortable room where damps
and draughts cannot intrude--he will eventually endanger his life. This ought to moderate the
talk of those people who are so stubborn in maintaining that the French duel is the most health-giving
of recreations because of the open-air exercise it affords. And it ought also to moderate that
foolish talk about French duelists and socialist-hated monarchs being the only people who are
immoral.

But it is time to get at my subject. As soon as I heard of the late fiery outbreak between
M. Gambetta and M. Fourtou in the French Assembly, I knew that trouble must follow. I knew
it because a long personal friendship with M. Gambetta revealed to me the desperate and implacable
nature of the man. Vast as are his physical proportions, I knew that the thirst for revenge
would penetrate to the remotest frontiers of his person.

I did not wait for him to call on me, but went at once to him. As I had expected, I found the
brave fellow steeped in a profound French calm. I say French calm, because French calmness
and English calmness have points of difference.

He was moving swiftly back and forth among the debris of his furniture, now and then staving
chance fragments of it across the room with his foot; grinding a constant grist of curses through
his set teeth; and halting every little while to deposit another handful of his hair on the
pile which he had been building of it on the table.

He threw his arms around my neck, bent me over his stomach to his breast, kissed me on both
cheeks, hugged me four or five times, and then placed me in his own arm-chair. As soon as I
had got well again, we began business at once.

I said I supposed he would wish me to act as his second, and he said, "Of course." I said I
must be allowed to act under a French name, so that I might be shielded from obloquy in my
country, in case of fatal results. He winced here, probably at the suggestion that dueling
was not regarded with respect in America. However, he agreed to my requirement. This accounts
for the fact that in all the newspaper reports M. Gambetta's second was apparently a Frenchman.

First, we drew up my principal's will. I insisted upon this, and stuck to my point. I said
I had never heard of a man in his right mind going out to fight a duel without first making
his will. He said he had never heard of a man in his right mind doing anything of the kind.
When he had finished the will, he wished to proceed to a choice of his "last words." He wanted
to know how the following words, as a dying exclamation, struck me:

"I die for my God, for my country, for freedom of speech, for progress, and the universal brotherhood
of man!"

I objected that this would require too lingering a death; it was a good speech for a consumptive,
but not suited to the exigencies of the field of honor. We wrangled over a good many ante-mortem
outbursts, but I finally got him to cut his obituary down to this, which he copied into his
memorandum-book, purposing to get it by heart:

"I DIE THAT FRANCE MIGHT LIVE."

I said that this remark seemed to lack relevancy; but he said relevancy was a matter of no
consequence in last words, what you wanted was thrill.

The next thing in order was the choice of weapons. My principal said he was not feeling well,
and would leave that and the other details of the proposed meeting to me. Therefore I wrote
the following note and carried it to M. Fourtou's friend:

Sir: M. Gambetta accepts M. Fourtou's challenge, and authorizes me to propose Plessis-Piquet
as the place of meeting; tomorrow morning at daybreak as the time; and axes as the weapons.

I am, sir, with great respect,

Mark Twain.

M. Fourtou's friend read this note, and shuddered. Then he turned to me, and said, with a suggestion
of severity in his tone:

"Have you considered, sir, what would be the inevitable result of such a meeting as this?"

"Well, for instance, what WOULD it be?"

"Bloodshed!"

"That's about the size of it," I said. "Now, if it is a fair question, what was your side proposing
to shed?"

I had him there. He saw he had made a blunder, so he hastened to explain it away. He said he
had spoken jestingly. Then he added that he and his principal would enjoy axes, and indeed
prefer them, but such weapons were barred by the French code, and so I must change my proposal.

I walked the floor, turning the thing over in my mind, and finally it occurred to me that Gatling-guns
at fifteen paces would be a likely way to get a verdict on the field of honor. So I framed
this idea into a proposition.

But it was not accepted. The code was in the way again. I proposed rifles; then double-barreled
shotguns; then Colt's navy revolvers. These being all rejected, I reflected awhile, and sarcastically
suggested brickbats at three-quarters of a mile. I always hate to fool away a humorous thing
on a person who has no perception of humor; and it filled me with bitterness when this man
went soberly away to submit the last proposition to his principal.

He came back presently and said his principal was charmed with the idea of brickbats at three-quarters
of a mile, but must decline on account of the danger to disinterested parties passing between
them. Then I said:

"Well, I am at the end of my string, now. Perhaps YOU would be good enough to suggest a weapon?
Perhaps you have even had one in your mind all the time?"

His countenance brightened, and he said with alacrity:

"Oh, without doubt, monsieur!"

So he fell to hunting in his pockets--pocket after pocket, and he had plenty of them--muttering
all the while, "Now, what could I have done with them?"

At last he was successful. He fished out of his vest pocket a couple of little things which
I carried to the light and ascertained to be pistols. They were single-barreled and silver-mounted,
and very dainty and pretty. I was not able to speak for emotion. I silently hung one of them
on my watch-chain, and returned the other. My companion in crime now unrolled a postage-stamp
containing several cartridges, and gave me one of them. I asked if he meant to signify by this
that our men were to be allowed but one shot apiece. He replied that the French code permitted
no more. I then begged him to go and suggest a distance, for my mind was growing weak and confused
under the strain which had been put upon it. He named sixty-five yards. I nearly lost my patience.
I said:

"Sixty-five yards, with these instruments? Squirt-guns would be deadlier at fifty. Consider,
my friend, you and I are banded together to destroy life, not make it eternal."

But with all my persuasions, all my arguments, I was only able to get him to reduce the distance
to thirty-five yards; and even this concession he made with reluctance, and said with a sigh,
"I wash my hands of this slaughter; on your head be it."

There was nothing for me but to go home to my old lion-heart and tell my humiliating story.
When I entered, M. Gambetta was laying his last lock of hair upon the altar. He sprang toward
me, exclaiming:

"You have made the fatal arrangements--I see it in your eye!"

"I have."

His face paled a trifle, and he leaned upon the table for support. He breathed thick and heavily
for a moment or two, so tumultuous were his feelings; then he hoarsely whispered:

"The weapon, the weapon! Quick! what is the weapon?"

"This!" and I displayed that silver-mounted thing. He cast but one glance at it, then swooned
ponderously to the floor.

When he came to, he said mournfully:

"The unnatural calm to which I have subjected myself has told upon my nerves. But away with
weakness! I will confront my fate like a man and a Frenchman."

He rose to his feet, and assumed an attitude which for sublimity has never been approached
by man, and has seldom been surpassed by statues. Then he said, in his deep bass tones:

"Behold, I am calm, I am ready; reveal to me the distance."

"Thirty-five yards." ...

I could not lift him up, of course; but I rolled him over, and poured water down his back.
He presently came to, and said:

"Thirty-five yards--without a rest? But why ask? Since murder was that man's intention, why
should he palter with small details? But mark you one thing: in my fall the world shall see
how the chivalry of France meets death."

After a long silence he asked:

"Was nothing said about that man's family standing up with him, as an offset to my bulk? But
no matter; I would not stoop to make such a suggestion; if he is not noble enough to suggest
it himself, he is welcome to this advantage, which no honorable man would take."

He now sank into a sort of stupor of reflection, which lasted some minutes; after which he
broke silence with:

"The hour--what is the hour fixed for the collision?"

"Dawn, tomorrow."

He seemed greatly surprised, and immediately said:

"Insanity! I never heard of such a thing. Nobody is abroad at such an hour."

"That is the reason I named it. Do you mean to say you want an audience?"

"It is no time to bandy words. I am astonished that M. Fourtou should ever have agreed to so
strange an innovation. Go at once and require a later hour."

I ran downstairs, threw open the front door, and almost plunged into the arms of M. Fourtou's
second. He said:

"I have the honor to say that my principal strenuously objects to the hour chosen, and begs
you will consent to change it to half past nine."

"Any courtesy, sir, which it is in our power to extend is at the service of your excellent
principal. We agree to the proposed change of time."

"I beg you to accept the thanks of my client." Then he turned to a person behind him, and said,
"You hear, M. Noir, the hour is altered to half past nine." Whereupon M. Noir bowed, expressed
his thanks, and went away. My accomplice continued:

"If agreeable to you, your chief surgeons and ours shall proceed to the field in the same carriage
as is customary."

"It is entirely agreeable to me, and I am obliged to you for mentioning the surgeons, for I
am afraid I should not have thought of them. How many shall I want? I supposed two or three
will be enough?"

"Two is the customary number for each party. I refer to 'chief' surgeons; but considering the
exalted positions occupied by our clients, it will be well and decorous that each of us appoint
several consulting surgeons, from among the highest in the profession. These will come in their
own private carriages. Have you engaged a hearse?"

"Bless my stupidity, I never thought of it! I will attend to it right away. I must seem very
ignorant to you; but you must try to overlook that, because I have never had any experience
of such a swell duel as this before. I have had a good deal to do with duels on the Pacific
coast, but I see now that they were crude affairs. A hearse--sho! we used to leave the elected
lying around loose, and let anybody cord them up and cart them off that wanted to. Have you
anything further to suggest?"

"Nothing, except that the head undertakers shall ride together, as is usual. The subordinates
and mutes will go on foot, as is also usual. I will see you at eight o'clock in the morning,
and we will then arrange the order of the procession. I have the honor to bid you a good day."

I returned to my client, who said, "Very well; at what hour is the engagement to begin?"

"Half past nine."

"Very good indeed. Have you sent the fact to the newspapers?"

"SIR! If after our long and intimate friendship you can for a moment deem me capable of so
base a treachery--"

"Tut, tut! What words are these, my dear friend? Have I wounded you? Ah, forgive me; I am overloading
you with labor. Therefore go on with the other details, and drop this one from your list. The
bloody-minded Fourtou will be sure to attend to it. Or I myself--yes, to make certain, I will
drop a note to my journalistic friend, M. Noir--"

