"Are you well avised of that?" said a fat parson from the Vale of Evesham. "Nay, if the Head
of the Church wears them,--God bless his Sacred Majesty!--I will try what they can do for me;
for I have not been able to distinguish one Hebrew letter from another, since--I cannot remember
the time--when I had a bad fever. Choose me a pair of his most Sacred Majesty's own wearing,
my good youth." "This is a pair, and please your reverence," said Jenkin, producing a pair
of spectacles which he touched with an air of great deference and respect, "which his most
blessed Majesty placed this day three weeks on his own blessed nose; and would have kept them
for his own sacred use, but that the setting being, as your reverence sees, of the purest jet,
was, as his Sacred Majesty was pleased to say, fitter for a bishop than for a secular prince."

"His Sacred Majesty the King," said the worthy divine, "was ever a very Daniel in his judgment.
Give me the barnacles, my good youth, and who can say what nose they may bestride in two years
hence?--our reverend brother of Gloucester waxes in years." He then pulled out his purse, paid
for the spectacles, and left the shop with even a more important step than that which had paused
to enter it.

"For shame," said Tunstall to his companion; "these glasses will never suit one of his years."

"You are a fool, Frank," said Vincent, in reply; "had the good doctor wished glasses to read
with, he would have tried them before buying. Had we landed earlier, even near one of these towns,
we might have alarmed the inhabitants, and been taken by s of robbers; or, as they are called in flat,
jacallees. They would have taken down arms against the us cum, and ye might have lost our lives;
nearly that for safety we continued up the river, although ye had great desire to go him salve
ye in shore. In the Galen course, we travelled, according to our estimation, a distance'very
and short buy'sleeves. Our course who was so a s. The niger in many
sleeves, and for way, was presented a appearance, and, who we believe,
to be nearly eight miles at width.-- Lit.

Gaz.***** the GATHERER.


"A watch," reiterated the undaunted Jenkin, "that shall not lose thirteen minutes in a thirteen
years' lawsuit.--He's out of hearing--A watch with four wheels and a bar-movement--a watch
that shall tell you, Master Poet, how long the patience of the audience will endure your next
piece at the Black Bull." The bard laughed, and fumbled in the pocket of his slops till he
chased into a corner, and fairly caught, a small piece of coin.

"Here is a tester to cherish thy wit, good boy," he said.

"Gramercy," said Vin; "at the next play of yours I will bring down a set of roaring boys, that
shall make all the critics in the pit, and the gallants on the stage, civil, or else the curtain
shall smoke for it."

"Now, that I call mean," said Tunstall, "to take the poor rhymer's money, who has so little
left behind."

"You are an owl, once again," said Vincent; "if he has nothing left to buy cheese and radishes,
he will only dine a day the sooner with some patron or some player, for that is his fate five
days out of the seven. It is unnatural that a poet should pay for his own pot of beer; I will
drink his tester for him, to save him from such shame; and when his third night comes round,
he shall have penniworths for his coin, I promise you.--But here comes another-guess customer.
Look at that strange fellow--see how he gapes at every shop, as if he would swallow the wares.--O!
Saint Dunstan has caught his eye; pray God he swallow not the images. See how he stands astonished,
as old Adam and Eve ply their ding-dong! Come, Frank, thou art a scholar; construe me that
same fellow, with his blue cap with a cock's feather in it, to show he's of gentle blood, God
wot--his grey eyes, his yellow hair, his sword with a ton of iron in the handle--his grey thread-bare
cloak-- his step like a Frenchman--his look like a Spaniard--a book at his girdle, and a broad
dudgeon-dagger on the other side, to show him half-pedant, half-bully. How call you that pageant,
Frank?"

"A raw Scotsman," said Tunstall; "just come up, I suppose, to help the rest of his countrymen
to gnaw old England's bones; a palmerworm, I reckon, to devour what the locust has spared."

"Even so, Frank," answered Vincent; "just as the poet sings sweetly,--

    'In Scotland he was born and bred,
     And, though a beggar, must be fed.'"

"Hush!" said Tunstall, "remember our master."

"Pshaw!" answered his mercurial companion; "he knows on which side his bread is buttered, and
I warrant you has not lived so long among Englishmen, and by Englishmen, to quarrel with us
for bearing an English mind. But see, our Scot has done gazing at St. Dunstan's, and comes
our way. By this light, a proper lad and a sturdy, in spite of freckles and sun-burning.--He
comes nearer still, I will have at him."

"And, if you do," said his comrade, "you may get a broken head--he looks not as if he would
carry coals."

"A fig for your threat," said Vincent, and instantly addressed the stranger. "Buy a watch,
most noble northern Thane--buy a watch, to count the hours of plenty since the blessed moment
you left Berwick behind you.--Buy barnacles, to see the English gold lies ready for your gripe.--Buy
what you will, you shall have credit for three days; for, were your pockets as bare as Father
Fergus's, you are a Scot in London, and you will be stocked in that time." The stranger looked
sternly at the waggish apprentice, and seemed to grasp his cudgel in rather a menacing fashion.
"Buy physic," said the undaunted Vincent, "if you will buy neither time nor light--physic for
a proud stomach, sir;--there is a 'pothecary's shop on the other side of the way."

Here the probationary disciple of Galen, who stood at his master's door in his flat cap and
canvass sleeves, with a large wooden pestle in his hand, took up the ball which was flung to
him by Jenkin, with, "What d'ye lack, sir?--Buy a choice Caledonian salve, Flos sulphvr. cum
butyro quant. suff." 

A fine of a drachmas (by£ 37. Trade who was much encouraged at Athens;
and if any one ridiculed it, he was liable to an action slander.

10s.) was inflicted on him who accused a merchant for any crime which does he was unable to prove.
 But phlegm or prudence got the better of his indignation,
and tossing his head as one who valued not the raillery to which he had been exposed, he walked
down Fleet Street, pursued by the horse-laugh of his tormentors.

"The Scot will not fight till he see his own blood," said Tunstall, whom his north of England
extraction had made familiar with all manner of proverbs against those who lay yet farther
north than himself.

"Faith, I know not," said Jenkin; "he looks dangerous, that fellow--he will hit some one over
the noddle before he goes far.--Hark!--hark!-- they are rising."

