BARDELYS THE MAGNIFICENT

Being an Account of the Strange Wooing pursued by the Sieur Marcel de Saint-Pol; Marquis of
Bardelys, and of the things that in the course of it befell him in Languedoc, in the year of
the Rebellion

By Rafael Sabatini

CONTENTS

      I.  THE WAGER
     II.  THE KING'S WISHES
    III.  RENT: DE LESPERON
     IV.  A MAID IN THE MOONLIGHT
      V.  THE VICOMTE DE LAVEDAN
     VI.  IN CONVALESCENCE
    VII.  THE HOSTILITY OF SAINT-EUSTACHE
   VIII.  THE PORTRAIT
     IX.  A NIGHT ALARM
      X.  THE RISEN DEAD
     XI.  THE KING'S COMMISSIONER
    XII.  THE TRIBUNAL OF TOULOUSE
   XIII.  THE ELEVENTH HOUR
    XIV.  EAVESDROPPING
     XV.  MONSIEUR DE CHATELLERAULT IS ANGRY
    XVI.  SWORDS
   XVII.  THE BABBLING OF GANYMEDE
  XVIII. SAINT-EUSTACHE IS OBSTINATE  XIX.  THE FLINT AND THE STEEL
     XX.  THE "BRAVI" AT BLAGNAC
    XXI.  LOUIS THE JUST
   XXII.  WE UNSADDLE

BARDELYS THE MAGNIFICENT

CHAPTER I. THE WAGER

"Speak of the Devil," whispered La Fosse in my ear, and, moved by the words and by the significance
of his glance, I turned in my chair.

The door had opened, and under the lintel stood the thick-set figure of the Comte de Chatellerault.
Before him a lacquey in my escutcheoned livery of red-and-gold was receiving, with back obsequiously
bent, his hat and cloak. 

He saw that lifted the portrait, which the crowd swirled in endless circuits and saw agitated
in the air crowd of white handkerchiefs coming out of the turmoil as a foam.

The disorderly procession went down the street from Atocha and entered the Plaza Mayor. There spread
a little. But then tried to cross the street arc to enter the Bitterness in silver. The great
monster was measured at a glance the number of its members multiplied arch width and the way he
had to pass. The camel was going to go through the eye of the needle. There was a convulsive
movement of elbows, and the abdomens became depressed, turned the bodies and some hats jumped impelled
by the impact and shock of many heads. Some voices tried to pronounce an order to overcome this
difficulty, a problem of obstetrics no doubt.

- In front of the
portrait.

Pass up the portrait - said. It was impossible, people flocked to Thus, the portrait could not
happen. Finally, after long efforts, the picture passed the arc. Behind the more confusion
was the great mass of people. The crowd that filled the square was standing and waiting. The
portrait and its lackeys resulted in the High Street; but once there, unparalleled surprise stopped
the procession. Two rows of soldiers were in Platerías, reaching beyond the square of the town.
The stakes of a squad lances gleaming in the distance, and before the troops were, Captain General
of Madrid, horseback, waiting with great poise and courage. This man came, followed by two or
three, and pointing with his sword, summoned the removal order to the portrait. There was a
quick consultation of glances between them. A civil authority also approached and said the best manners
to leave everyone to his house and to give up the demonstration, because the government was determined
to not go one step further. The appearance of a vivid impression to the troops the portrait,
besides, they had the help of Sagunto regiment and the regiment Sagunto was locked and well
guarded in their barracks.

They tried, however, move on, and said that this demonstration was purely moral, not trying
to cause any disturbance, nor was aggressive attitude, or were more object of admiration paid
tribute to the hero who gave freedom to his country.

"Every man to his house! Behind the portrait," Morillo said resolutely.

The

defense was impossible. The procession had no weapons.

The alleged weakness of the government had turned to unwavering firmness. Some began to desert,
parading through the streets of Milan and the square of San Miguel. The portrait rested ground
and moved back and forth, unsure in the hands of its bearers.

They spoke: but all was useless: people began to recede, some screaming, and there were also those
who wanted to resist the troops.

Meanwhile, the crowd stood still occupied the square.

Who was it that so many people rose, and shaking hands, voices uttering the crowd cheering? He
spoke well, no doubt: big cheers welcomed his words, but the constant jostling, the cries of the
downtrodden and crushed not allow one to express relief.

Some called for silence, but silence the whole place was impossible.

At best, those who in the arc discussed with the authorities, fell to see that the troops resisted.
Confusion then came to a close.

He continued his invective, but the continued exiting the not to give to people in their efforts
to verify the event. He was pale, panting, and every word was like a whip that encouraged the
crowd to move forward.

As the troops advanced clearing the square, and some were so bold,
that before horses resisted and shouted apostrophizing Morillo and
his people.

- To those who cry! - Said the commander of the picket.

Arremolinóse the crowd. Many ran to escape.

Others took turns, carried by the wave, or remained troubled, not knowing what to do. Lazarus was
silent.

- Who cried? - Captain said, - To those who cry. Seize the screaming.

Lazarus tried to flee, but the strong arm of a soldier stopped him strongly.

- Seize the screaming.

This is the preacher.

In this!

Lazarus went from a strong hand to another very strong. Just realized that he had on. He thought
he would release him immediately and tried to free herself, but to no avail.

- Back, back! Outside the plaza! - Continued the captain.

And it was well obeyed, because the crowd was quickly disbanded. The procession failed. The picture
was shattered in the middle of the square, the troops took all the entries.

What happened to Lazarus? Fifteen minutes after entering, honorably guarded the gates Villa of
the jail, and was honorably also introduced a sad, dark and dirty cell.

CHAPTER XIII

# Do not get the expected arrival of an unwelcome .--.

#

Of all the procedures that the spirit used to torment himself, the most terrible is expected.
Against this there is no remedy. Seems to be easily resolved not to wait, divert the imagination
of the thing hoped for, and live by only one life at a time time, without that painful aspiration
for the future that unsettles the self, leading him out of the center.

When you expect what is to come times are centuries, when what should have been expected to arrive,
flying hours and seconds.

Clara was at the time of the ten with the soul in suspense, trembling and attentive, full of
restlessness and anxiety. Spend ten, and the traveler is not, the clock flies eleven to twelve,
and twelve to one. Pascuala was very afraid, because the noise of people in the street was increased
every hour. The two were sitting in the room interior, and did not say any thing, nor the maid had
those tales of nymphs and little dragon, who had learned in his village, and the orphan was laughing
with the booming and natural simplicity of his character. Both were very quiet, looked anxiously
when some noise is felt on the stairs and make sure that was not what I waited, fell in his
despondency one indifferent, the other on her calmly, melancholy
and hidden agitation.

Clara, at dawn, entered the period of speculation, forming the spirit gives all the torments
imaginable. What had happened? "Would overturn the car? Do you have left Thieves with those
tremendous trabucos painting in prints? Had he abandoned the trip? Perhaps Would love with
some girl in the village?

Would you stop a game of realistic? All he could think less right. Right now it is easy to reassure
taking a bit of serenity, but nobody does, and a blindness to the normal deep insight replaced
understanding. Calm enough reason to say: "Did not come? You have stopped casually. Tomorrow
will come. "But instead of doing this logical reasoning, it is generally
thought is this: "Do not you come?

For it is dead: killed him."

Then the night contributes to this torment the night, which gives
to every horrible ways, as to material things than to the visions.

Clara, who had failed or could not sleep, never ceased to receive
reports, bumps, blood, darkness, suddenly opposed to a large light
that shines horrors.

Da fever that situation.

Feverish impatience creeps into the blood that stirs and circulates
as if the speed of its march accelerate the arrival of what is expected.

The disappointment of our desire is more terrible, because it is slow,
with no limits.

No front but eternity is.

Do not come to mind the changes that can bring next day.

That night and the loneliness seems to have no end in sight.

The first light of day did, however, only increase their sadness. Yesterday! Since yesterday he
had been waiting for! I wanted to get out and run, asking you all for the unfortunate young man.
He opened the balcony, looked into the street, thinking that I would
see him pass, and considered to all passersby.

Then he noticed a person who sets the corner, looking at her tenacity.

Confident that he was not turned away, and did not care more of that person.

Closed the balcony, because he felt fatigue and many irresistible
urge to sleep.

He went to his room and sitting in a chair, rested his head on the
bed.

But instead of sleep began to ponder with such as delirium and agitation
overnight.

Elijah had not returned. What would it? Oh, what light! Maybe he'd
found and would be together somewhere.

Then there came Pascuala coming from the street.

The Alcarrian came to Clara, decorating round and broad front of
his face with cheeky smile.

- Do you know what is going on?

- What?

What's up? - Clara said with interest.

- That this gentleman the other day ... well ... Mr. military ... I stood in the corner.

- And what do I care?

- That says it comes here.

- Jesus, here! And why come here? We are alone.

- As it is a very accomplished gentleman.

- Yes? Well I have not noticed.

- Did not you saw the other day here ... when the Lord came bad?

-
Yes, like a good person.

But back to what you want here?

- You either it maliciously. Oh, you naughty! At that moment in his pocket rang Pascuala the
pesetas that the military had given him. Then he felt footsteps on the stairs and the bell sounded
faintly.

- Is he - said Alcarria.

And before Clara could stop him, the damsel ran, opened the door, and the military, which know,
entered the hall, was found with respect and went up to Clara.

- Who were you looking for? - Clara said .-- It is not: it has gone.

- If you are, not out, - said the military with aplomb.

- Who? But who were you looking for?

- It is easy to understand that do not look that old, whose deal away rather than attract people.

-
But what do you mean? What's you? - Clara asked with a slight look of alarm .-- I alone, leave
you.

- For the same reason I will not.

- If you do not leave, call, yell, - said Clara, certainly determined to do what he said.

- Then reñiremos - military said with a smile of friendly frankness
that disarmed in Clara's anger part.

- For God, who is about to arrive!

But who are you? What you come here? Who has given permission to enter? You are the one who
came the other day with him. Because I recognize, but do not understand to what is today.
Pascuala, Pascuala!

- Do not look at me as an enemy. My entry was unique, but I'm not a thief or a murderer. I come
as a friend, bring peace and friendship. Do not be afraid, Clara. I come as a friend. And we know
of a single day when I came here to this poor guy holding.

- Oh! and can now come - said Clara alarmed. Go away you, God. I do not know him I do not care
all that I said. If he comes ....

- The last thing I care about is that old - he answered .-- Before the military was interested
a little. You thought it was relative, perhaps her husband.

But then I know that is a petty tyrant who lives to torment a poor orphan, who dies giving
melancholy enclosed here. No I can see with indifference that someone so beautiful, so kind,
so worthy of being happy, go life in the hands of this beast.

-
Oh! Well, I'm fine.

We appreciate your kindness - Clara answered, - but not necessary. Go away, by God.

- I will not go, no - the military said, getting excited a little. A few days ago that I am
concerned idea of ​​martyrdom that you must suffer. I feel a strong desire to liberate you of this
maniac, and I think I will realize this purpose. I've been there a hundred times a day and horror
has given me the dark side of this house, grave in life so beautiful creature. You will laugh at me,
I understand. It might seem strange that I have taken this interest
a person whom I've only seen once, but this mystery not talk now.

What matters is that you decide to do what I advise. You know, I've sworn not to allow here
die of boredom and loneliness. I'm sure you, so simply told me the only time we saw some of
his misadventures, have the confidence I need today, will appreciate
the nobility of my purposes and will not object to that conduct.

Clara did not know what to say.

I was confused to see the generous and fraternal interest was to
a person whom she had seen so little.

This would be proud to another woman, but Clara was very modest,
and before that had no affectionate demonstration that gratitude and
shame.

Never thought to deserve that.

- I really appreciate it, sir - said, - but ....

The truth is that I could tell he was happy and wanted to continue
that kind of life.

It was true what the military said.

It was impossible to live in the company of that beast.

But perhaps did not expect their salvation from another person? This idea led to more vigorously
reject the offers that you did.

- You do not know the person with whom you live - continued military
.-- You do not know him, I yes: I have already informed of his character
and his ideas.

Not only is a flamboyant man and intractable, but a fanatic without a heart, a fierce man of perverse
instincts and horrible calculations.

No: you can not go longer in the hands of this man, who is not your relative or friend: is
called its guard, to make you a victim of brutal pride.

Clearly understood by the vehemence with which the boy spoke, it was
certainly his interest, and also known that the old paint was not
exaggerated.

The stranger was acting with the highest nobility, sincerity and good faith. He was one of
those characters inclined to adventures difficult and dangerous involving the salvation of the
suffering.

His spirit of chivalry, his heart for good, in that event found a reason for occupation, and devoted
its activity to the completion of the most generous purpose. In addition, a very strong feeling
of sympathy for this poor orphan, he was moved to proceed with such
diligence.

More later we will know the name and deeds of this noble gentleman.

- But you is not here any longer - Clara said .-- How do you convince
me that interested in me, if just being here proves to me otherwise?

If he comes and finds him at home ....

- Do not say anything. That man is so miserable, that does not care neither happiness nor honor
you: everything look with indifference. You has no more protection than me.
The orphan, when he heard these words he felt a chill in the soul.
The timing was such made them look like a great truth. Its sole, legitimate
and true friend would not come. No he had more protection than an
upstart.

- Nothing more than me, but it is enough - the young man
with affected voice you follow the plan .-- I will check: If you do
not that old. I will for you all that can be a man of heart and honesty.
You have in me the confidence that what we have has to be saved ....
And now, Clara, I go. But I shall soon return to give my orders to
the poor prisoner, whose happiness depends on me. What pride I feel
at this! I am always alert. If you think of a new misfortune, no need
to tell me. I find myself here to help her and cheer. He has no more
protection to you than me. Think you well. Goodbye.

The unknown man's
decision, suggested as novel in the secrets of home, was very firm.
It was proposed to undertake an adventure generous, he bowed to at
the same time a feeling of sympathy, and confirmed in him the desire,
to do well.

If there was a bit of selfishness in it, then we will
see. Since he left, when left Pascuala scared of the kitchen and said:

-
The Master!

- Do not open - Clara said .-- Wait fearful, hiding you.

But
Elias, who had a key, you need not open for entry.

- No matter -
said the officer, who was trying to calm Clara.

Opened and tagline.
Came downcast and withdrawn. Took a few steps down the corridor without
see the intruder, but to get to the end, he noted that bulk, looked
up and saw the young man who bowed before him with respect.

CHAPTER
XIV

# The determination. #

- What do you look? Who are you? What
are you doing here?

- Would not you know me? I few days ago brought
to you very badly to his house, and went to see if you were already
fully recovered.

- Yes, sir, I'm good - snapped, and went into the
room, where he followed the young man - not offered anything else?

-
Nothing more, and I retire, I have just arrived - said the military
naturally affected .-- I retire repeating that I care very much for
your health.

- Well, since you told me the other day - said glancing
suspicious Coletilla to Clara and to Pascuala.

- Did not send me
anything?

- Nothing more but I leave you in peace. Are not you going
to the procession? It is very lucid.

- I'm not for processions.

-
Do you like them you know what happens in the houses of the royalists?
- Said the old man bitter and suspicious accent typical of his character
.-- Here there is a conspiracy. And if I conspired, so you would not
come to amaze the dandies of the National Militia.

Clara was shaking.
The military seemed that, offended by this insult, was about to draw
his the tremendous saber at his waist and to download it over the
head of the realist. But he smiled disdainfully and said:

- Dude,
I see that I judged you wrong. You can be sure to give him away I
will not. What harm can you do?

- Me? ... ....-- Damage the fan responded
with a fierce grin, that it was equivalent to the smile.

- Soon will
you do and for a short time. That I swear to you. With that I shall
make the favor of leaving. Goodbye.

He went to the exit, not without
trying to express to Clara with a look which he had previously that
in so many words, that is, to trust him and wait. Would have liked
to be accompanied the girl to the door, but dared not unhappy. The ghost of a smile
hung on his sensuous lips, for all that excitement had paled his countenance beyond its habit.

"Monsieur le Marquis." said he rising, "I take your wager, and I pledge my lands in Normandy
against yours of Bardelys. Should you lose, they will no longer call you the Magnificent; should
I lose--I shall be a beggar. It is a momentous wager, Bardelys, and spells ruin for one of us."

"A madness!" groaned Mironsac.

"Mordieux!" swore Cazalet. Whilst La Fosse, who had been the original cause of all this trouble,
vented his excitement in a gibber of imbecile laughter.

"How long do you give me, Chatellerault?" I asked, as quietly as I might.

"What time shall you require?"

"I should prefer that you name the limit," I answered.

He pondered a moment. Then "Will three months suffice you?" he asked.

"If it is not done in three months, I will pay," said I.

And then Chatellerault did what after all was, I suppose, the only thing that a gentleman might
do under the circumstances. He rose to his feet, and, bidding the company charge their glasses,
he gave them a parting toast.

"Messieurs, drink with me to Monsieur le Marquis de Bardelys's safe journey into Languedoc,
and to the prospering of his undertaking."

In answer, a great shout went up from throats that suspense had lately held in leash. Men leapt
on to their chairs, and, holding their glasses on high, they acclaimed me as thunderously as
though I had been the hero of some noble exploit, instead of the main figure in a somewhat
questionable wager.

"Bardelys!" was the shout with which the house reechoed. "Bardelys! Bardelys the Magnificent!
Vive Bardelys!"

CHAPTER II. THE KING'S WISHES

It was daybreak ere the last of them had left me, for a dozen or so had lingered to play lansquenet
after the others had departed. With those that remained my wager had soon faded into insignificance,
as their minds became engrossed in the fluctuations of their own fortunes.

I did not play myself; I was not in the mood, and for one night, at least, of sufficient weight
already I thought the game upon which I was launched.

I was out on the balcony as the first lines of dawn were scoring the east, and in a moody,
thoughtful condition I had riveted my eyes upon the palace of the Luxembourg, which loomed
a black pile against the lightening sky, when Mironsac came out to join me. A gentle, lovable
lad was Mironsac, not twenty years of age, and with the face and manners of a woman. That he
was attached to me I knew.

"Monsieur le Marquis," said he softly, "I am desolated at this wager into which they have forced
you."

"Forced me?" I echoed. "No, no; they did not force me. And yet," I reflected, with a sigh,
"perhaps they did."

"I have been thinking, monsieur, that if the King were to hear of it the evil might be mended."

"But the King must not hear of it, Armand," I answered quickly. "Even if he did, matters would
be no better--much worse, possibly."

"But, monsieur, this thing done in the heat of wine--"

"Is none the less done, Armand," I concluded. "And I for one do not wish it undone."

"But have you no thought for the lady?" he cried.

I laughed at him. "Were I still eighteen, boy, the thought might trouble me. Had I my illusions,
I might imagine that my wife must be some woman of whom I should be enamoured. As it is, I
have grown to the age of twenty-eight unwed. Marriage becomes desirable. I must think of an
heir to all the wealth of Bardelys. And so I go to Languedoc. If the lady be but half the saint
that fool Chatellerault has painted her, so much the better for my children; if not, so much
the worse. There is the dawn, Mironsac, and it is time we were abed. Let us drive these plaguy
gamesters home."

When the last of them had staggered down my steps, and I had bidden a drowsy lacquey extinguish
the candles, I called Ganymede to light me to bed and aid me to undress. His true name was
Rodenard; but my friend La Fosse, of mythological fancy, had named him Ganymede, after the
cup-bearer of the gods, and the name had clung to him. He was a man of some forty years of
age, born into my father's service, and since become my intendant, factotum, majordomo, and
generalissimo of my regiment of servants and my establishments both in Paris and at Bardelys.

We had been to the wars together ere I had cut my wisdom teeth, and thus had he come to love
me. There was nothing this invaluable servant could not do. At baiting or shoeing a horse,
at healing a wound, at roasting a capon, or at mending a doublet, he was alike a master, besides
possessing a score of other accomplishments that do not now occur to me, which in his campaigning
he had acquired. Of late the easy life in Paris had made him incline to corpulency, and his
face was of a pale, unhealthy fullness.

To-night, as he assisted me to undress, it wore an expression of supreme woe.

"Monseigneur is going into Languedoc?" he inquired sorrowfully. He always called me his "seigneur,"
as did the other of my servants born at Bardelys.

"Knave, you have been listening," said I.

"But, monseigneur," he explained, "when Monsieur le Comte de Chatellerault laid his wager--"

"And have I not told you, Ganymede, that when you chance to be among my friends you should
hear nothing but the words addressed to you, see nothing but the glasses that need replenishing?
But, there! We are going into Languedoc. What of it?"

"They say that war may break out at any moment," he groaned; "that Monsieur le Duc de Montmorency
is receiving reenforcements from Spain, and that he intends to uphold the standard of Monsieur
and the rights of the province against the encroachments of His Eminence the Cardinal."

"So! We are becoming politicians, eh, Ganymede? And how shall all this concern us? Had you
listened more attentively, you had learnt that we go to Languedoc to seek a wife, and not to
concern ourselves with Cardinals and Dukes. Now let me sleep ere the sun rises."

On the morrow I attended the levee, and I applied to His Majesty for leave to absent myself.
But upon hearing that it was into Languedoc I went, he frowned inquiry. Trouble enough was
his brother already making in that province. I explained that I went to seek a wife, and deeming
all subterfuge dangerous, since it might only serve to provoke him when later he came to learn
the lady's name, I told him--withholding yet all mention of the wager--that I fostered the
hope of making Mademoiselle de Lavedan my marquise.

Deeper came the line between his brows at that, and blacker grew the scowl. He was not wont
to bestow on me such looks as I now met in his weary eyes, for Louis XIII had much affection
for me.

"You know this lady?" he demanded sharply.

"Only by name, Your Majesty."

At that his brows went up in astonishment.

"Only by name? And you would wed her? But, Marcel, my friend, you are a rich man one of the
richest in France. You cannot be a fortune hunter."

"Sire," I answered, "Fame sings loudly the praises of this lady, her beauty and her virtue--praises
that lead me to opine she would make me an excellent chatelaine. I am come to an age when it
is well to wed; indeed, Your Majesty has often told me so. And it seems to me that all France
does not hold a lady more desirable. Heaven send she will agree to my suit!"

In that tired way of his that was so pathetic: "Do you love me a little, Marcel?" he asked.

"Sire," I exclaimed, wondering whither all this was leading us, "need I protest it?"

"No," he answered dryly; "you can prove it. Prove it by abandoning this Languedoc quest. I
have motives--sound motives, motives of political import. I desire another wedding for Mademoiselle
de Lavedan. I wish it so, Bardelys, and I look to be obeyed."

For a moment temptation had me by the throat. Here was an unlooked-for chance to shake from
me a business which reflection was already rendering odious. I had but to call together my
friends of yesternight, and with them the Comte de Chatellerault, and inform them that by the
King was I forbidden to go awooing Roxalanne de Lavedan. So should my wager be dissolved. And
then in a flash I saw how they would sneer one and all, and how they would think that I had
caught avidly at this opportunity of freeing myself from an undertaking into which a boastful
mood had lured me. The fear of that swept aside my momentary hesitation.

"Sire," I answered, bending my head contritely, "I am desolated that my inclinations should
run counter to your wishes, but to your wonted kindness and clemency I must look for forgiveness
if these same inclinations drive me so relentlessly that I may not now turn back."

He caught me viciously by the arm and looked sharply into my face.

"You defy me, Bardelys?" he asked, in a voice of anger.

"God forbid, Sire!" I answered quickly. "I do but pursue my destiny."

He took a turn in silence, like a man who is mastering himself before he will speak. Many an
eye, I knew, was upon us, and not a few may have been marvelling whether already Bardelys were
about to share the fate that yesterday had overtaken his rival Chatellerault. At last he halted
at my side again.

"Marcel," said he, but though he used that name his voice was harsh, "go home and ponder what
I have said. If you value my favour, if you desire my love, you will abandon this journey and
the suit you contemplate. If, on the other hand, you persist in going--you need not return.
The Court of France has no room for gentlemen who are but lip-servers, no place for courtiers
who disobey their King."

That was his last word. He waited for no reply, but swung round on his heel, and an instant
later I beheld him deep in conversation with the Duke of Saint-Simon. Of such a quality is
the love of princes--vain, capricious, and wilful. Indulge it ever and at any cost, else you
forfeit it.

I turned away with a sigh, for in spite of all his weaknesses and meannesses I loved this cardinal-ridden
king, and would have died for him had the need occurred, as well he knew. But in this matter--well,
I accounted my honour involved, and there was now no turning back save by the payment of my
wager and the acknowledgment of defeat.

CHAPTER III. RENE DE LESPERON

That very day I set out. For since the King was opposed to the affair, and knowing the drastic
measures by which he was wont to enforce what he desired, I realized that did I linger he might
find a way definitely to prevent my going.

I travelled in a coach, attended by two lacqueys and a score of men-at-arms in my own livery,
all commanded by Ganymede. My intendant himself came in another coach with my wardrobe and
travelling necessaries. We were a fine and almost regal cortege as we passed down the rue de
l'Enfer and quitted Paris by the Orleans gate, taking the road south. So fine a cortege, indeed,
that it entered my mind. His Majesty would come to hear of it, and, knowing my destination,
send after me to bring me back. To evade such a possibility, I ordered a divergence to be made,
and we struck east and into Touraine. At Pont-le-Duc, near Tours, I had a cousin in the Vicomte
d'Amaral, and at his chateau I arrived on the third day after quitting Paris.

Since that was the last place where they would seek me, if to seek me they were inclined, I
elected to remain my cousin's guest for fifteen days. And whilst I was there we had news of
trouble in the South and of a rising in Languedoc under the Duc de Montmorency. Thus was it
that when I came to take my leave of Amaral, he, knowing that Languedoc was my destination,
sought ardently to keep me with him until we should learn that peace and order were restored
in the province. But I held the trouble lightly, and insisted upon going.

Resolutely, then, if by slow stages, we pursued our journey, and came at last to Montauban.
There we lay a night at the Auberge de Navarre, intending to push on to Lavedan upon the morrow.
My father had been on more than friendly terms with the Vicomte de Lavedan, and upon this I
built my hopes of a cordial welcome and an invitation to delay for a few days the journey to
Toulouse, upon which I should represent myself as bound.

Thus, then, stood my plans. And they remained unaltered for all that upon the morrow there
were wild rumours in the air of Montauban. There were tellings of a battle fought the day before
at Castelnaudary, of the defeat of Monsieur's partisans, of the utter rout of Gonzalo de Cordova's
Spanish tatterdemalions, and of the capture of Montmorency, who was sorely wounded--some said
with twenty and some with thirty wounds--and little like to live. Sorrow and discontent stalked
abroad in Languedoc that day, for they believed that it was against the Cardinal, who sought
to strip them of so many privileges, that Gaston d'Orleans had set up his standard.

That those rumours of battle and defeat were true we had ample proof some few hours later,
when a company of dragoons in buff and steel rode into the courtyard of the Auberge de Navarre,
headed by a young spark of an officer, who confirmed the rumour and set the number of Montmorency's
wounds at seventeen. He was lying, the officer told us, at Castelnaudary, and his duchess was
hastening to him from Beziers. Poor woman! She was destined to nurse him back to life and vigour
only that he might take his trial at Toulouse and pay with his head the price of his rebellion.

Ganymede who, through the luxurious habits of his more recent years had--for all his fine swagger--developed
a marked distaste for warfare and excitement, besought me to take thought for my safety and
to lie quietly at Montauban until the province should be more settled.

"The place is a hotbed of rebellion," he urged. "If these Chouans but learn that we are from
Paris and of the King's party, we shall have our throats slit, as I live. There is not a peasant
in all this countryside indeed, scarce a man of any sort but is a red-hot Orleanist, anti-Cardinalist,
and friend of the Devil. Bethink you, monseigneur, to push on at the present is to court murder."

"Why, then, we will court murder," said I coldly. "Give the word to saddle."

I asked him at the moment of setting out did he know the road to Lavedan, to which the lying
poltroon made answer that he did. In his youth he may have known it, and the countryside may
have undergone since then such changes as bewildered him. Or it may be that fear dulled his
wits, and lured him into taking what may have seemed the safer rather than the likelier road.
But this I know, that as night was falling my carriage halted with a lurch, and as I put forth
my head I was confronted by my trembling intendant, his great fat face gleaming whitely in
the gloom above the lawn collar on his doublet.

"Why do we halt, Ganymede?" quoth I.

"Monseigneur," he faltered, his trembling increasing as he spoke, and his eyes meeting mine
in a look of pitiful contrition, "I fear we are lost."

"Lost?" I echoed. "Of what do you talk? Am I to sleep in the coach?"

"Alas, monseigneur, I have done my best--"

"Why, then, God keep us from your worst," I snapped. "Open me this door."

I stepped down and looked about me, and, by my faith, a more desolate spot to lose us in my
henchman could not have contrived had he been at pains to do so. A bleak, barren landscape--such
as I could hardly have credited was to be found in all that fair province--unfolded itself,
looking now more bleak, perhaps, by virtue of the dim evening mist that hovered over it. Yonder,
to the right, a dull russet patch of sky marked the west, and then in front of us I made out
the hazy outline of the Pyrenees. At sight of them, I swung round and gripped my henchman by
the shoulder.

"A fine trusty servant thou!" I cried. "Boaster! Had you told us that age and fat living had
so stunted your wits as to have extinguished memory, I had taken a guide at Montauban to show
us the way. Yet, here, with the sun and the Pyrenees to guide you, even had you no other knowledge,
you lose yourself!"

"Monseigneur," he whimpered, "I was choosing my way by the sun and the mountains, and it was
thus that I came to this impasse. For you may see, yourself, that the road ends here abruptly."

"Ganymede," said I slowly, "when we return to Paris--if you do not die of fright 'twixt this
and then--I'll find a place for you in the kitchens. God send you may make a better scullion
than a follower!" Then, vaulting over the wall, "Attend me, some half-dozen of you," I commanded,
and stepped out briskly towards the barn.

As the weather-beaten old door creaked upon its rusty hinges, we were greeted by a groan from
within, and with it the soft rustle of straw that is being moved. Surprised, I halted, and
waited whilst one of my men kindled a light in the lanthorn that he carried.

By its rays we beheld a pitiable sight in a corner of that building. A man, quite young and
of a tall and vigorous frame, lay stretched upon the straw. He was fully dressed even to his
great riding-boots, and from the loose manner in which his back-and-breast hung now upon him,
it would seem as if he had been making shift to divest himself of his armour, but had lacked
the strength to complete the task. Beside him lay a feathered headpiece and a sword attached
to a richly broidered baldrick. All about him the straw was clotted with brown, viscous patches
of blood. The doublet which had been of sky-blue velvet was all sodden and stained, and inspection
showed us that he had been wounded in the right side, between the straps of his breastplate.

As we stood about him now, a silent, pitying group, appearing fantastic, perhaps, by the dim
light of that single lanthorn, he attempted to raise his head, and then with a groan he dropped
it back upon the straw that pillowed it. From out of a face white, as in death, and drawn with
haggard lines of pain, a pair of great lustrous blue eyes were turned upon us, abject and pitiful
as the gaze of a dumb beast that is stricken mortally.

It needed no acuteness to apprehend that we had before us one of yesterday's defeated warriors;
one who had spent his last strength in creeping hither to get his dying done in peace. Lest
our presence should add fear to the agony already upon him, I knelt beside him in the blood-smeared
straw, and, raising his head, I pillowed it upon my arm.

"Have no fear," said I reassuringly. "We are friends. Do you understand?"

The faint smile that played for a second on his lips and lighted his countenance would have
told me that he understood, even had I not caught his words, faint as a sigh "Merci, monsieur."
He nestled his head into the crook of my arm. "Water--for the love of God!" he gasped, to add
in a groan, "Je me meurs, monsieur."

Assisted by a couple of knaves, Ganymede went about attending to the rebel at once. Handling
him as carefully as might be, to avoid giving him unnecessary pain they removed his back-and-breast,
which was flung with a clatter into one of the corners of the barn. Then, whilst one of them
gently drew off his boots, Rodenard, with the lanthorn close beside him, cut away the fellow's
doublet, and laid bare the oozing sword-wound that gaped in his mangled side. He whispered
an order to Gilles, who went swiftly off to the coach in quest of something that he had asked
for; then he sat on his heels and waited, his hand upon the man's pulse, his eyes on his face.

I stooped until my lips were on a level with my intendant's ear.

"How is it with him?" I inquired.

"Dying," whispered Rodenard in answer. "He has lost too much blood, and he is probably bleeding
inwardly as well. There is no hope of his life, but he may linger thus some little while, sinking
gradually, and we can at least mitigate the suffering of his last moments."

When presently the men returned with the things that Ganymede had asked for, he mixed some
pungent liquid with water, and, whilst a servant held the bowl, he carefully sponged the rebel's
wound. This and a cordial that he had given him to drink seemed to revive him and to afford
him ease. His breathing was no longer marked by any rasping sound, and his eyes seemed to burn
more intelligently.

"I am dying--is it not so?" he asked, and Ganymede bowed his head in silence. The poor fellow
sighed. "Raise me," he begged, and when this service had been done him, his eyes wandered round
until they found me. Then "Monsieur," he said, "will you do me a last favour?"

"Assuredly, my poor friend," I answered, going down on my knees beside him.

"You--you were not for the Duke?" he inquired, eyeing me more keenly.

"No, monsieur. But do not let that disturb you; I have no interest in this rising and I have
taken no side. I am from Paris, on a journey of--of pleasure. My name is Bardelys--Marcel de
Bardelys."

"Bardelys the Magnificent?" he questioned, and I could not repress a smile.

"I am that overrated man."

"But then you are for the King!" And a note of disappointment crept into his voice. Before
I could make him any answer, he had resumed. "No matter; Marcel de Bardelys is a gentleman,
and party signifies little when a man is dying. I am Rene de Lesperon, of Lesperon in Gascony,"
he pursued. "Will you send word to my sister afterwards?"

I bowed my head without speaking.

"She is the only relative I have, monsieur. But"--and his tone grew wistful--"there is one
other to whom I would have you bear a message." He raised his hand by a painful effort to the
level of his breast. Strength failed him, and he sank back. "I cannot, monsieur," he said in
a tone of pathetic apology. "See; there is a chain about my neck with a locket. Take it from
me. Take it now, monsieur. There are some papers also, monsieur. Take all. I want to see them
safely in your keeping."

I did his bidding, and from the breast of his doublet I drew some loose letters and a locket
which held the miniature of a woman's face.

"I want you to deliver all to her, monsieur."

"It shall be done," I answered, deeply moved.

"Hold it--hold it up," he begged, his voice weakening. "Let me behold the face."

Long his eyes rested on the likeness I held before him. At last, as one in a dream--

"Well-beloved," he sighed. "Bien aimee!" And down his grey, haggard cheeks the tears came slowly.
"Forgive this weakness, monsieur," he whispered brokenly. "We were to have been wed in a month,
had I lived." He ended with a sob, and when next he spoke it was more labouredly, as though
that sob had robbed him of the half of what vitality remained. "Tell her, monsieur, that my
dying thoughts were of her. Tell--tell her--I--"

"Her name?" I cried, fearing he would sink before I learned it. "Tell me her name."

He looked at me with eyes that were growing glassy and vacant. Then he seemed to brace himself
and to rally for a second.

"Her name?" he mused, in a far-off manner. "She is--Ma-de-moiselle de ------"

His head rolled on the suddenly relaxed neck. He collapsed into Rodenard's arms.

"Is he dead?" I asked.

Rodenard nodded in silence.

CHAPTER IV. A MAID IN THE MOONLIGHT

I do not know whether it was the influence of that thing lying in a corner of the barn under
the cloak that Rodenard had flung over it, or whether other influences of destiny were at work
to impel me to rise at the end of a half-hour and announce my determination to set out on horseback
and find myself quarters more congenial.

"To-morrow," I instructed Ganymede, as I stood ready to mount, "you will retrace your steps
with the others, and, finding the road to Lavedan, you will follow me to the chateau."

"But you cannot hope to reach it to-night, monseigneur, through a country that is unknown to
you," he protested.

"I do not hope to reach it to-night. I will ride south until I come upon some hamlet that will
afford me shelter and, in the morning, direction."

I left him with that, and set out at a brisk trot. Night had now fallen, but the sky was clear,
and a crescent moon came opportunely if feebly to dispel the gloom.

I quitted the field, and went back until I gained a crossroad, where, turning to the right,
I set my face to the Pyrenees, and rode briskly amain. That I had chosen wisely was proved
when some twenty minutes later. I clattered into the hamlet of Mirepoix, and drew up before
an inn flaunting the sign of a peacock--as if in irony of its humbleness, for it was no better
than a wayside tavern. Neither stable-boy nor ostler was here, and the unclean, overgrown urchin
to whom I entrusted my horse could not say whether indeed Pere Abdon the landlord would be
able to find me a room to sleep in. I thirsted, however; and so I determined to alight, if
it were only to drink a can of wine and obtain information of my whereabouts.

As I was entering the hostelry there was a clatter of hoofs in the street, and four dragoons
headed by a sergeant rode up and halted at the door of the Paon. They seemed to have ridden
hard and some distance, for their horses were jaded almost to the last point of endurance.

Within, I called the host, and having obtained a flagon of the best vintage--Heaven fortify
those that must be content with his worst!--I passed on to make inquiries touching my whereabouts
and the way to Lavedan. This I learnt was but some three or four miles distant. About the other
table--there were but two within the room--stood the dragoons in a whispered consultation,
of which it had been well had I taken heed, for it concerned me more closely than I could have
dreamt.

"He answers the description," said the sergeant, and though I heard the words I took no thought
that it was of me they spoke.

"Padrieu," swore one of his companions, "I'll wager it is our man."

And then, just as I was noticing that Master Abdon, who had also overheard the conversation,
was eyeing me curiously, the sergeant stepped up to me, and--

"What is your name, monsieur?" quoth he.

I vouchsafed him a stare of surprise before asking in my turn "How may that concern you?"

"Your pardon, my master, but we are on the King's business."

I remembered then that he had said I answered some description. With that it flashed through
my mind that they had been sent after me by His Majesty to enforce my obedience to his wishes
and to hinder me from reaching Lavedan. At once came the dominant desire to conceal my identity
that I might go unhindered. The first name that occurred to me was that of the poor wretch
I had left in the barn half an hour ago, and so--

"I am," said I, "Monsieur de Lesperon, at your service."

Too late I saw the mistake that I had made. I own it was a blunder that no man of ordinary
intelligence should have permitted himself to have committed. Remembering the unrest of the
province, I should rather have concluded that their business was more like to be in that connection.

"He is bold, at least," cried one of the troopers, with a burst of laughter. Then came the
sergeant's voice, cold and formal, "In the King's name, Monsieur de Lesperon, I arrest you."

He had whipped out his sword, and the point was within an inch of my breast. But his arm, I
observed, was stretched to its fullest extent, which forbade his making a sudden thrust. To
hamper him in the lunge there was the table between us.

So, my mind working quickly in this desperate situation, and realizing how dire and urgent
the need to attempt an escape, I leapt suddenly back to find myself in the arms of his followers.
But in moving I had caught up by one of its legs the stool on which I had been sitting. As
I raised it, I eluded the pinioning grip of the troopers. I twisted in their grasp, and brought
the stool down upon the head of one of them with a force that drove him to his knees. Up went
that three-legged stool again, to descend like a thunderbolt upon the head of another. That
freed me. The sergeant was coming up behind, but another flourish of my improvised battle-axe
sent the two remaining soldiers apart to look to their swords. Ere they could draw, I had darted
like a hare between them and out into the street. The sergeant, cursing them with horrid volubility,
followed closely upon my heels.

Leaping as far into the roadway as I could, I turned to meet the fellow's onslaught. Using
the stool as a buckler, I caught his thrust upon it. So violently was it delivered that the
point buried itself in the wood and the blade snapped, leaving him a hilt and a stump of steel.
I wasted no time in thought. Charging him wildly, I knocked him over just as the two unhurt
dragoons came stumbling out of the tavern.

I gained my horse and vaulted into the saddle. Tearing the reins from the urchin that held
them, and driving my spurs into the beast's flanks, I went careering down the street at a gallop,
gripping tightly with my knees, whilst the stirrups, which I had had no time to step into,
flew wildly about my legs.

A pistol cracked behind me; then another, and a sharp, stinging pain in the shoulder warned
me that I was hit. But I took no heed of it then. The wound could not be serious, else I had
already been out of the saddle, and it would be time enough to look to it when I had outdistanced
my pursuers. I say my pursuers, for already there were hoofbeats behind me, and I knew that
those gentlemen had taken to their horses. But, as you may recall, I had on their arrival noted
the jaded condition of their cattle, whilst I bestrode a horse that was comparatively fresh,
so that pursuit had but small terrors for me. Nevertheless, they held out longer, and gave
me more to do than I had imagined would be the case. For nigh upon a half-hour I rode, before
I could be said to have got clear of them, and then for aught I knew they were still following,
resolved to hound me down by the aid of such information as they might cull upon their way.

I was come by then to the Garonne. I drew rein beside the swiftly flowing stream, winding itself
like a flood of glittering silver between the black shadows of its banks. A little while I
sat there listening, and surveying the stately, turreted chateau that loomed, a grey, noble
pile, beyond the water. I speculated what demesne this might be, and I realized that it was
probably Lavedan.

I pondered what I had best do, and in the end I took the resolve to swim the river and knock
at the gates. If it were indeed Lavedan, I had but to announce myself, and to one of my name
surely its hospitalities would be spread. If it were some other household, even then the name
of Marcel de Bardelys should suffice to ensure me a welcome.

By spurring and coaxing, I lured my steed into the river. There is a proverb having it that
though you may lead a horse to the water you cannot make him drink. It would have now applied
to my case, for although I had brought mine to the water I could not make him swim; or, at
least, I could not make him breast the rush of the stream. Vainly did I urge him and try to
hold him; he plunged frantically, snorted, coughed, and struggled gamely, but the current was
bearing us swiftly away, and his efforts brought us no nearer to the opposite shore. At last
I slipped from his back, and set myself to swim beside him, leading him by the bridle. But
even thus he proved unequal to the task of resisting the current, so that in the end I let
him go, and swam ashore alone, hoping that he would land farther down, and that I might then
recapture him. When, however, I had reached the opposite bank, and stood under the shadow of
the chateau, I discovered that the cowardly beast had turned back, and, having scrambled out,
was now trotting away along the path by which we had come. Having no mind to go after him,
I resigned myself to the loss, and turned my attention to the mansion now before me.

Some two hundred yards from the river it raised its great square bulk against the background
of black, star-flecked sky. From the facade before me down to the spot where I stood by the
water, came a flight of half a dozen terraces, each balustraded in white marble, ending in
square, flat-topped pillars of Florentine design. What moon there was revealed the quaint architecture
of that stately edifice and glittered upon the mullioned windows. But within nothing stirred;
no yellow glimmer came to clash with the white purity of the moonlight; no sound of man or
beast broke the stillness of the night, for all that the hour was early. The air of the place
was as that of some gigantic sepulchre. A little daunted by this all-enveloping stillness,
I skirted the terraces and approached the house on the eastern side. Here I found an old-world
drawbridge--now naturally in disuse--spanning a ditch fed from the main river for the erstwhile
purposes of a moat. I crossed the bridge, and entered an imposing courtyard. Within this quadrangle
the same silence dwelt, and there was the same obscurity in the windows that overlooked it.
I paused, at a loss how to proceed, and I leaned against a buttress of the portcullis, what
time I considered.

I was weak from fasting, worn with hard riding, and faint from the wound in my shoulder, which
had been the cause at least of my losing some blood. In addition to all this, I was shivering
with the cold of my wet garments, and generally I must have looked as little like that Bardelys
they called the Magnificent as you might well conceive. How, then, if I were to knock, should
I prevail in persuading these people--whoever they might be--of my identity? Infinitely more
had I the air of some fugitive rebel, and it was more than probable that I should be kept in
durance to be handed over to my friends the dragoons, if later they came to ride that way.
I was separated from those who knew me, and as things now stood--unless this were, indeed,
Lavedan--it might be days before they found me again.

I was beginning to deplore my folly at having cut myself adrift from my followers in the first
place, and having embroiled myself with the soldiers in the second; I was beginning to contemplate
the wisdom of seeking some outhouse of this mansion wherein to lie until morning, when of a
sudden a broad shaft of light, coming from one of the windows on the first floor, fell athwart
the courtyard. Instinctively I crouched back into the shadow of my friendly buttress, and looked
up.

That sudden shaft of light resulted from the withdrawal of the curtains that masked a window.
At this window, which opened outward on to a balcony; I now beheld--and to me it was as the
vision of Beatrice may have been to Dante--the white figure of a woman. The moonlight bathed
her, as in her white robe she leaned upon the parapet gazing upward into the empyrean. A sweet,
delicate face I saw, not endowed, perhaps, with that exquisite balance and proportion of feature
wherein they tell us beauty lies, but blessed with a wondrously dainty beauty all its own;
a beauty, perhaps, as much of expression as of form; for in that gentle countenance was mirrored
every tender grace of girlhood, all that is fresh and pure and virginal.

I held my breath, I think, as I stood in ravished contemplation of that white vision. If this
were Lavedan, and that the cold Roxalanne who had sent my bold Chatellerault back to Paris
empty-handed then were my task a very welcome one.

How little it had weighed with me that I was come to Languedoc to woo a woman bearing the name
of Roxalanne de Lavedan I have already shown. But here in this same Languedoc I beheld to-night
a woman whom it seemed I might have loved, for not in ten years--not, indeed, in all my life--had
any face so wrought upon me and called to my nature with so strong a voice.

I gazed at that child, and I thought of the women that I had known--the bold, bedizened beauties
of a Court said to be the first in Europe. And then it came to me that this was no demoiselle
of Lavedan, no demoiselle at all in fact, for the noblesse of France owned no such faces. Candour
and purity were not to be looked for in the high-bred countenances of our great families; they
were sometimes found in the faces of the children of their retainers. Yes; I had it now. This
child was the daughter of some custodian of the demesne before me.

Suddenly, as she stood there in the moonlight, a song, sung at half-voice, floated down on
the calm air. It was a ditty of old Provence, a melody I knew and loved, and if aught had been
wanting to heighten the enchantment that already ravished me, that soft melodious voice had
done it. Singing still, she turned and reentered the room, leaving wide the windows, so that
faintly, as from a distance, her voice still reached me after she was gone from sight.

It was in that hour that it came to me to cast myself upon this fair creature's mercy. Surely
one so sweet and saintly to behold would take compassion on an unfortunate! Haply my wound
and all the rest that I had that night endured made me dull-witted and warped my reason.

With what strength I still possessed I went to work to scale her balcony. The task was easy
even for one in my spent condition. The wall was thick with ivy, and, moreover, a window beneath
afforded some support, for by standing on the heavy coping I could with my fingers touch the
sill of the balcony above. Thus I hoisted myself, and presently I threw an arm over the parapet.
Already I was astride of that same Parapet before she became aware of my presence.

The song died suddenly on her lips, and her eyes, blue as forget-me-nots, were wide now with
the fear that the sight of me occasioned. Another second and there had been an outcry that
would have brought the house about our ears, when, stepping to the threshold of the room, "Mademoiselle,"
I entreated, "for the love of God, be silent! I mean you no harm. I am a fugitive. I am pursued."

This was no considered speech. There had been no preparing of words; I had uttered them mechanically
almost--perhaps by inspiration, for they were surely the best calculated to enlist this lady's
sympathy. And so far as went the words themselves, they were rigorously true.

With eyes wide open still, she confronted me, and I now observed that she was not so tall as
from below I had imagined. She was, in fact, of a short stature rather, but of proportions
so exquisite that she conveyed an impression of some height. In her hand she held a taper by
whose light she had been surveying herself in her mirror at the moment of my advent. Her unbound
hair of brown fell like a mantle about her shoulders, and this fact it was drew me to notice
that she was in her night-rail, and that this room to which I had penetrated was her chamber.

"Who are you?" she asked breathlessly, as though in such a pass my identity were a thing that
signified.

I had almost answered her, as I had answered the troopers at Mirepoix, that I was Lesperon.
Then, bethinking me that there was no need for such equivocation here, I was on the point of
giving her my name. But noting my hesitation, and misconstruing it, she forestalled me.

"I understand, monsieur," said she more composedly. "And you need have no fear. You are among
friends."

Her eyes had travelled over my sodden clothes, the haggard pallor of my face, and the blood
that stained my doublet from the shoulder downward. From all this she had drawn her conclusions
that I was a hunted rebel. She drew me into the room, and, closing the window, she dragged
the heavy curtain across it, thereby giving me a proof of confidence that smote me hard--impostor
that I was.

"I crave your pardon, mademoiselle, for having startled you by the rude manner of my coming,"
said I, and never in my life had I felt less at ease than then. "But I was exhausted and desperate.
I am wounded, I have ridden hard, and I swam the river."

The latter piece of information was vastly unnecessary, seeing that the water from my clothes
was forming a pool about my feet. "I saw you from below; mademoiselle, and surely, I thought,
so sweet a lady would have pity on an unfortunate." She observed that my eyes were upon her,
and in an act of instinctive maidenliness she bore her hand to her throat to draw the draperies
together and screen the beauties of her neck from my unwarranted glance, as though her daily
gown did not reveal as much and more of them.

That act, however, served to arouse me to a sense of my position. What did I there? It was
a profanity--a defiling, I swore; from which you'll see, that Bardelys was grown of a sudden
very nice.

"Monsieur," she was saying, "you are exhausted."

"But that I rode hard," I laughed, "it is likely they had taken me to Toulouse, were I might
have lost my head before my friends could have found and claimed me. I hope you'll see it is
too comely a head to be so lightly parted with."

"For that," said she, half seriously, half whimsically, "the ugliest head would be too comely."

I laughed softly, amusedly; then of a sudden, without warning, a faintness took me, and I was
forced to brace myself against the wall, breathing heavily the while. At that she gave a little
cry of alarm.

"Monsieur, I beseech you to be seated. I will summon my father, and we will find a bed for
you. You must not retain those clothes."

"Angel of goodness!" I muttered gratefully, and being still half dazed, I brought some of my
Court tricks into that chamber by taking her hand and carrying it towards my lips. But ere
I had imprinted the intended kiss upon her fingers--and by some miracle they were not withdrawn--my
eyes encountered hers again. I paused as one may pause who contemplates a sacrilege. For a
moment she held my glance with hers; then I fell abashed, and released her hand.

The innocence peeping out of that child's eyes it was that had in that moment daunted me, and
made me tremble to think of being found there, and of the vile thing it would be to have her
name coupled with mine. That thought lent me strength. I cast my weariness from me as though
it were a garment, and, straightening myself, I stepped of a sudden to the window. Without
a word, I made shift to draw back the curtain when her hand, falling on my sodden sleeve, arrested
me.

"What will you do, monsieur?" she cried in alarm. "You may be seen."

My mind was now possessed by the thing I should have thought of before. I climbed to her balcony,
and my one resolve was to get me thence as quickly as might be.

"I had not the right to enter here," I muttered. "I--" I stopped short; to explain would only
be to sully, and so, "Good-night! Adieu!" I ended brusquely.

"But, monsieur--" she began.

"Let me go," I commanded almost roughly, as I shook my arm free of her grasp.

"Bethink you that you are exhausted. If you go forth now, monsieur, you will assuredly be taken.
You must not go."

I laughed softly, and with some bitterness, too, for I was angry with myself.

"Hush, child," I said. "Better so, if it is to be."

And with that I drew aside the curtains and pushed the leaves of the window apart. She remained
standing in the room, watching me, her face pale, and hex eyes pained and puzzled.

One last glance I gave her as I bestrode the rail of her balcony. Then I lowered myself as
I had ascended. I was hanging by my hands, seeking with my foot for the coping of the window
beneath me, when, suddenly, there came a buzzing in my ears. I had a fleeting vision of a white
figure leaning on the balcony above me; then a veil seemed drawn over my eyes; there came a
sense of falling; a rush as of a tempestuous wind; then--nothing.

CHAPTER V. THE VICOMTE DE LAVEDAN

When next I awakened, it was to find myself abed in an elegant apartment, spacious and sunlit,
that was utterly strange to me. For some seconds I was content to lie and take no count of
my whereabouts. My eyes travelled idly over the handsome furnishings of that choicely appointed
chamber, and rested at last upon the lean, crooked figure of a man whose back was towards me
and who was busy with some phials at a table not far distant. Then recollection awakened also
in me, and I set my wits to work to grapple with my surroundings. I looked through the open
window, but from my position on the bed no more was visible than the blue sky and a faint haze
of distant hills.

I taxed my memory, and the events of yesternight recurred to me. I remembered the girl, the
balcony, and my flight ending in my giddiness and my fall. Had they brought me into that same
chateau, or--Or what? No other possibility came to suggest itself, and, seeing scant need to
tax my brains with speculation, since there was one there of whom I might ask the question--

"Hola, my master!" I called to him, and as I did so I essayed to move. The act wrung a sharp
cry of pain from me. My left shoulder was numb and sore, but in my right foot that sudden movement
had roused a sharper pang.

At my cry that little wizened old man swung suddenly round. He had the face of a bird of prey,
yellow as a louis d'or with a great hooked nose, and a pair of beady black eyes that observed
me solemnly. The mouth alone was the redeeming feature in a countenance that had otherwise
been evil; it was instinct with good-humour. But I had small leisure to observe him then, for
simultaneously with his turning there had been another movement at my bedside, which drew my
eyes elsewhere. A gentleman, richly dressed, and of an imposing height, approached me.

"You are awake, monsieur?" he said in a half interrogative tone.

"Will you do me the favour to tell me where I am, monsieur?" quoth I.

"You do not know? You are at Lavedan. I am the Vicomte de Lavedan--at your service."

Although it was no more than I might have expected, yet a dull wonder filled me, to which presently
I gave expression by asking stupidly--

"At Lavedan? But how came I hither?"

"How you came is more than I can tell," he laughed. "But I'll swear the King's dragoons were
not far behind you. We found you in the courtyard last night; in a swoon of exhaustion, wounded
in the shoulder, and with a sprained foot. It was my daughter who gave the alarm and called
us to your assistance. You were lying under her widow." Then, seeing the growing wonder in
my eyes and misconstruing it into alarm: "Nay, have no fear, monsieur," he cried. "You were
very well advised in coming to us. You have fallen among friends. We are Orleanists too,--at
Lavedan, for all that I was not in the fight at Castelnaudary. That was no fault of mine. His
Grace's messenger reached me overlate, and for all that I set out with a company of my men,
I put back when I had reached Lautrec upon hearing that already a decisive battle had been
fought and that our side had suffered a crushing defeat." He uttered a weary sigh.

"God help us, monsieur! Monseigneur de Richelieu is likely to have his way with us. But let
that be for the present. You are here, and you are safe. As yet no suspicion rests on Lavedan.
I was, as I have said, too late for the fight, and so I came quietly back to save my skin,
that I might serve the Cause in whatever other way might offer still. In sheltering you I am
serving Gaston d'Orleans, and, that I may continue so to do, I pray that suspicion may continue
to ignore me. If they were to learn of it at Toulouse or of how with money and in other ways
I have helped this rebellion--I make no doubt that my head would be the forfeit I should be
asked to pay."

I was aghast at the freedom of treasonable speech with which this very debonnaire gentleman
ventured to address an utter stranger.

"But tell me, Monsieur de Lesperon," resumed my host, "how is it with you?"

I started in fresh astonishment.

"How--how do you know that I am Lesperon?" I asked.

"Ma foi!" he laughed, "do you imagine I had spoken so unreservedly to a man of whom I knew
nothing? Think better of me, monsieur, I beseech you. I found these letters in your pocket
last night, and their superscription gave me your identity. Your name is well known to me,"
he added. "My friend Monsieur de Marsac has often spoken of you and of your devotion to the
Cause, and it affords me no little satisfaction to be of some service to one whom by repute
I have already learned to esteem."

I lay back on my pillows, and I groaned. Here was a predicament! Mistaking me for that miserable
rebel I had succoured at Mirepoix, and whose letters I bore upon me that I might restore them
to some one whose name he had failed to give me at the last moment, the Vicomte de Lavedan
had poured the damning story of his treason into my ears.

What if I were now to enlighten him? What if I were to tell him that I was not Lesperon--no
rebel at all, in fact--but Marcel de Bardelys, the King's favourite? That he would account
me a spy I hardly thought; but assuredly he would see that my life must be a danger to his
own; he must fear betrayal from me; and to protect himself he would be justified in taking
extreme measures. Rebels were not addicted to an excess of niceness in their methods, and it
was more likely that I should rise no more from the luxurious bed on which his hospitality
had laid me. But even if I had exaggerated matters, and the Vicomte were not quite so bloodthirsty
as was usual with his order, even if he chose to accept my promise that I would forget what
he had said, he must nevertheless--in view of his indiscretion--demand my instant withdrawal
from Lavedan. And what, then, of my wager with Chatellerault?

Then, in thinking of my wager, I came to think of Roxalanne herself--that dainty, sweet-faced
child into whose chamber I had penetrated on the previous night. And would you believe it that
I--the satiated, cynical, unbelieving Bardelys--experienced dismay at the very thought of leaving
Lavedan for no other reason than because it involved seeing no more of that provincial damsel?

My unwillingness to be driven from her presence determined me to stay. I had come to Lavedan
as Lesperon, a fugitive rebel. In that character I had all but announced myself last night
to Mademoiselle. In that character I had been welcomed by her father. In that character, then,
I must remain, that I might be near her, that I might woo and win her, and thus--though this,
I swear, had now become a minor consideration with me--make good my boast and win the wager
that must otherwise involve my ruin.

As I lay back with closed eyes and gave myself over to pondering the situation, I took a pleasure
oddly sweet in the prospect of urging my suit under such circumstances. Chatellerault had given
me a free hand. I was to go about the wooing of Mademoiselle de Lavedan as I chose. But he
had cast it at me in defiance that not with all my magnificence, not with all my retinue and
all my state to dazzle her, should I succeed in melting the coldest heart in France.

And now, behold! I had cast from me all these outward embellishments; I came without pomp,
denuded of every emblem of wealth, of every sign of power; as a poor fugitive gentleman, I
came, hunted, proscribed, and penniless--for Lesperon's estate would assuredly suffer sequestration.
To win her thus would, by my faith, be an exploit I might take pride in, a worthy achievement
to encompass.

And so I left things as they were, and since I offered no denial to the identity that was thrust
upon me, as Lesperon I continued to be known to the Vicomte and to his family.

Presently he called the old man to my bedside and I heard them talking of my condition.

"You think, then, Anatole," he said in the end, "that in three or four days Monsieur de Lesperon
may be able to rise?"

"I am assured of it," replied the old servant.

Whereupon, turning to me, "Be therefore of good courage, monsieur," said Lavedan, "for your
hurt is none so grievous after all."

I was muttering my thanks and my assurances that I was in excellent spirits, when we were suddenly
disturbed by a rumbling noise as of distant thunder.

"Mort Dieu!" swore the Vicomte, a look of alarm coming into his face. With a bent head, he
stood in a listening attitude.

"What is it?" I inquired.

"Horsemen--on the drawbridge," he answered shortly. "A troop, by the sound."

And then, in confirmation of these words, followed a stamping and rattle of hoofs on the flags
of the courtyard below. The old servant stood wringing his hands in helpless terror, and wailing,
"Monsieur, monsieur!"

But the Vicomte crossed rapidly to the window and looked out. Then he laughed with intense
relief; and in a wondering voice "They are not troopers," he announced. "They have more the
air of a company of servants in private livery; and there is a carriage--pardieu, two carriages!"

At once the memory of Rodenard and my followers occurred to me, and I thanked Heaven that I
was abed where he might not see me, and that thus he would probably be sent forth empty-handed
with the news that his master was neither arrived nor expected.

But in that surmise I went too fast. Ganymede was of a tenacious mettle, and of this he now
afforded proof. Upon learning that naught was known of the Marquis de Bardelys at Lavedan,
my faithful henchman announced his intention to remain there and await me, since that was,
he assured the Vicomte, my destination.

"My first impulse," said Lavedan, when later he came to tell me of it, "was incontinently to
order his departure. But upon considering the matter and remembering how high in power and
in the King's favour stands that monstrous libertine Bardelys, I deemed it wiser to afford
shelter to this outrageous retinue. His steward--a flabby, insolent creature--says that Bardelys
left them last night near Mirepoix, to ride hither, bidding them follow to-day. Curious that
we should have no news of him! That he should have fallen into the Garonne and drowned himself
were too great a good fortune to be hoped for."

The bitterness with which he spoke of me afforded me ample cause for congratulation that I
had resolved to accept the role of Lesperon. Yet, remembering that my father and he had been
good friends, his manner left me nonplussed. What cause could he have for this animosity to
the son? Could it be merely my position at Court that made me seem in his rebel eyes a natural
enemy?

"You are acquainted with this Bardelys?" I inquired, by way of drawing him.

"I knew his father," he answered gruffly. "An honest, upright gentleman."

"And the son," I inquired timidly, "has he none of these virtues?"

"I know not what virtues he may have; his vices are known to all the world. He is a libertine,
a gambler, a rake, a spendthrift. They say he is one of the King's favourites, and that his
monstrous extravagances have earned for him the title of 'Magnificent'." He uttered a short
laugh. "A fit servant for such a master as Louis the Just!"

"Monsieur le Vicomte," said I, warming in my own defence, "I swear you do him injustice. He
is extravagant, but then he is rich; he is a libertine, but then he is young, and he has been
reared among libertines; he is a gamester, but punctiliously honourable at play. Believe me,
monsieur, I have some acquaintance with Marcel de Bardelys, and his vices are hardly so black
as is generally believed; whilst in his favour I think the same may be said that you have just
said of his father--he is an honest, upright gentleman."

"And that disgraceful affair with the Duchesse de Bourgogne?" inquired Lavedan, with the air
of a man setting an unanswerable question.

"Mon Dieu!" I cried, "will the world never forget that indiscretion? An indiscretion of youth,
no doubt much exaggerated outside Court circles."

The Vicomte eyed me in some astonishment for a moment.

"Monsieur de Lesperon," he said at length, "you appear to hold this Bardelys in high esteem.
He has a staunch supporter in you and a stout advocate. Yet me you cannot convince." And he
shook his head solemnly. "Even if I did not hold him to be such a man as I have pronounced
him, but were to account him a paragon of all the virtues, his coming hither remains an act
that I must resent."

"But why, Monsieur le Vicomte?"

"Because I know the errand that brings him to Lavedan. He comes to woo my daughter."

Had he flung a bomb into my bed he could not more effectively have startled me.

"It astonishes you, eh?" he laughed bitterly. "But I can assure you that it is so. A month
ago I was visited by the Comte de Chatellerault--another of His Majesty's fine favourites.
He came unbidden; offered no reason for his coming, save that he was making a tour of the province
for his amusement. His acquaintance with me was of the slightest, and I had no desire that
it should increase; yet here he installed himself with a couple of servants, and bade fair
to take a long stay.

"I was surprised, but on the morrow I had an explanation. A courier, arriving from an old friend
of mine at Court, bore me a letter with the information that Monsieur de Chatellerault was
come to Lavedan at the King's instigation to sue for my daughter's hand in marriage. The reasons
were not far to seek. The King, who loves him, would enrich him; the easiest way is by a wealthy
alliance, and Roxalanne is accounted an heiress. In addition to that, my own power in the province
is known, whilst my defection from the Cardinalist party is feared. What better link wherewith
to attach me again to the fortunes of the Crown--for Crown and Mitre have grown to be synonymous
in this topsy-turvy France--than to wed my daughter to one of the King's favourites?

"But for that timely warning, God knows what mischief had been wrought. As it was, Monsieur
de Chatellerault had but seen my daughter upon two occasions. On the very day that I received
the tidings I speak of, I sent her to Auch to the care of some relatives of her mother's. Chatellerault
remained a week. Then, growing restive, he asked when my daughter would return. 'When you depart,
monsieur,' I answered him, and, being pressed for reasons, I dealt so frankly with him that
within twenty-four hours he was on his way back to Paris."

The Vicomte paused and took a turn in the apartment, whilst I pondered his words, which were
bringing me a curious revelation. Presently he resumed.

"And now, Chatellerault having failed in his purpose, the King chooses a more dangerous person
for the gratifying of his desires. He sends the Marquis, Marcel de Bardelys to Lavedan on the
same business. No doubt he attributes Chatellerault's failure to clumsiness, and he has decided
this time to choose a man famed for courtly address and gifted with such arts of dalliance
that he cannot fail but enmesh my daughter in them. It is a great compliment that he pays us
in sending hither the handsomest and most accomplished gentleman of all his Court--so fame
has it--yet it is a compliment of whose flattery I am not sensible. Bardelys goes hence as
empty-handed as went Chatellerault. Let him but show his face, and my daughter journeys to
Auch again. Am I not well advised, Monsieur de Lesperon?"

"Why, yes," I answered slowly, after the manner of one who deliberates, "if you are persuaded
that your conclusions touching Bardelys are correct."

"I am more than persuaded. What other business could bring him to Lavedan?"

It was a question that I did not attempt to answer. Haply he did not expect me to answer it.
He left me free to ponder another issue of this same business of which my mind was become very
full. Chatellerault had not dealt fairly with me. Often, since I had left Paris, had I marvelled
that he came to be so rash as to risk his fortune upon a matter that turned upon a woman's
whim. That I possessed undeniable advantages of person, of birth, and of wealth, Chatellerault
could not have disregarded. Yet these, and the possibility that they might suffice to engage
this lady's affections, he appeared to have set at naught when he plunged into that rash wager.

He must have realized that because he had failed was no reason to presume that I must also
fail. There was no consequence in such an argument, and often, as I have said, had I marvelled
during the past days at the readiness with which Chatellerault had flung down the gage. Now
I held the explanation of it. He counted upon the Vicomte de Lavedan to reason precisely as
he was reasoning, and he was confident that no opportunities would be afforded me of so much
as seeing this beautiful and cold Roxalanne.

It was a wily trap he had set me, worthy only of a trickster.

Fate, however, had taken a hand in the game, and the cards were redealt since I had left Paris.
The terms of the wager permitted me to choose any line of action that I considered desirable;
but Destiny, it seemed, had chosen for me, and set me in a line that should at least suffice
to overcome the parental resistance--that breastwork upon which Chatellerault had so confidently
depended.

As the rebel Rene de Lesperon I was sheltered at Lavedan and made welcome by my fellow-rebel
the Vicomte, who already seemed much taken with me, and who had esteemed me before seeing me
from the much that Monsieur de Marsac--whoever he might be--had told him of me. As Rene de
Lesperon I must remain, and turn to best account my sojourn, praying God meanwhile that this
same Monsieur de Marsac might be pleased to refrain from visiting Lavedan whilst I was there.

CHAPTER VI. IN CONVALESCENCE

Of the week that followed my coming to Lavedan I find some difficulty in writing. It was for
me a time very crowded with events--events that appeared to be moulding my character anew and
making of me a person different, indeed, from that Marcel de Bardelys whom in Paris they called
the Magnificent. Yet these events, although significant in their total, were of so vague and
slight a nature in their detail, that when I come to write of them I find really little that
I may set down.

Rodenard and his companions remained for two days at the chateau, and to me his sojourn there
was a source of perpetual anxiety, for I knew not how far the fool might see fit to prolong
it. It was well for me that this anxiety of mine was shared by Monsieur de Lavedan, who disliked
at such a time the presence of men attached to one who was so notoriously of the King's party.
He came at last to consult me as to what measures might be taken to remove them, and I--nothing
loath to conspire with him to so desirable end--bade him suggest to Rodenard that perhaps evil
had befallen Monsieur de Bardelys, and that, instead of wasting his time at Lavedan, he were
better advised to be searching the province for his master.

This counsel the Vicomte adopted, and with such excellent results that that very day--within
the hour, in fact--Ganymede, aroused to a sense of his proper duty, set out in quest of me,
not a little disturbed in mind--for with all his shortcomings the rascal loved me very faithfully.

That was on the third day of my sojourn at Lavedan. On the morrow I rose, my foot being sufficiently
recovered to permit it. I felt a little weak from loss of blood, but Anatole--who, for all
his evil countenance, was a kindly and gentle--servant was confident that a few days--a week
at most--would see me completely restored.

Of leaving Lavedan I said nothing. But the Vicomte, who was one of the most generous and noble
hearted men that it has ever been my good fortune to meet, forestalled any mention of my departure
by urging that I should remain at the chateau until my recovery were completed, and, for that
matter, as long thereafter as should suit my inclinations.

"At Lavedan you will be safe, my friend," he assured me; "for, as I have told you, we are under
no suspicion. Let me urge you to remain until the King shall have desisted from further persecuting
us."

And when I protested and spoke of trespassing, he waived the point with a brusqueness that
amounted almost to anger.

"Believe, monsieur, that I am pleased and honoured at serving one who has so stoutly served
the Cause and sacrificed so much to it."

At that, being not altogether dead to shame, I winced, and told myself that my behaviour was
unworthy, and that I was practising a detestable deception. Yet some indulgence I may justly
claim in consideration of how far I was victim of circumstance. Did I tell him that I was Bardelys,
I was convinced that I should never leave the chateau alive. Very noble-hearted was the Vicomte,
and no man have I known more averse to bloodthirstiness, but he had told me much during the
days that I had lain abed, and many lives would be jeopardized did I proclaim what I had learned
from him. Hence I argued that any disclosure of my identity must perforce drive him to extreme
measures for the sake of the friends he had unwittingly betrayed.

On the day after Rodenard's departure I dined with the family, and met again Mademoiselle de
Lavedan, whom I had not seen since the balcony adventure of some nights ago. The Vicomtesse
was also present, a lady of very austere and noble appearance--lean as a pike and with a most
formidable nose--but, as I was soon to discover, with a mind inclining overmuch to scandal
and the high-seasoned talk of the Courts in which her girlhood had been spent.

From her lips I heard that day the old, scandalous story of Monseigneur de Richelieu's early
passion for Anne of Austria. With much unction did she tell us how the Queen had lured His
Eminence to dress himself in the motley of a jester that she might make a mock of him in the
eyes of the courtiers she had concealed behind the arras of her chamber.

This anecdote she gave us with much wealth of discreditable detail and scant regard for either
her daughter's presence or for the blushes that suffused the poor child's cheeks. In every
way she was a pattern of the class of women amongst whom my youth had been spent, a class which
had done so much towards shattering my faith and lowering my estimate of her sex. Lavedan had
married her and brought her into Languedoc, and here she spent her years lamenting the scenes
of her youth, and prone, it would seem, to make them matter for conversation whenever a newcomer
chanced to present himself at the chateau.

Looking from her to her daughter, I thanked Heaven that Roxalanne was no reproduction of the
mother. She had inherited as little of her character as of her appearance. Both in feature
and in soul Mademoiselle de Lavedan was a copy of that noble, gallant gentleman, her father.

One other was present at that meal, of whom I shall have more to say hereafter. This was a
young man of good presence, save, perhaps, a too obtrusive foppishness, whom Monsieur de Lavedan
presented to me as a distant kinsman of theirs, one Chevalier de Saint-Eustache. He was very
tall--of fully my own height--and of an excellent shape, although extremely young. But his
head if anything was too small for his body, and his good-natured mouth was of a weakness that
was confirmed by the significance of his chin, whilst his eyes were too closely set to augur
frankness.

He was a pleasant fellow, seemingly of that negative pleasantness that lies in inoffensiveness,
but otherwise dull and of an untutored mind--rustic, as might be expected in one the greater
part of whose life had been spent in his native province, and of a rusticity rendered all the
more flagrant by the very efforts he exerted to dissemble it.

It was after madame had related that unsavoury anecdote touching the Cardinal that he turned
to ask me whether I was well acquainted with the Court. I was near to committing the egregious
blunder of laughing in his face, but, recollecting myself betimes, I answered vaguely that
I had some knowledge of it, whereupon he all but caused me to bound from my chair by asking
me had I ever met the Magnificent Bardelys.

"I--I am acquainted with him," I answered warily. "Why do you ask?"

"I was reminded of him by the fact that his servants have been here for two days. You were
expecting the Marquis himself, were you not, Monsieur le Vicomte?"

Lavedan raised his head suddenly, after the manner of a man who has received an affront.

"I was not, Chevalier," he answered, with emphasis. "His intendant, an insolent knave of the
name of Rodenard, informed me that this Bardelys projected visiting me. He has not come, and
I devoutly hope that he may not come. Trouble enough had I to rid myself of his servants, and
but for Monsieur de Lesperon's well-conceived suggestion they might still be here."

"You have never met him, monsieur?" inquired the Chevalier.

"Never," replied our host in such a way that any but a fool must have understood that he desired
nothing less than such a meeting.

"A delightful fellow," murmured Saint-Eustache--"a brilliant, dazzling personality."

"You--you are acquainted with him?" I asked.

"Acquainted?" echoed that boastful liar. "We were as brothers."

"How you interest me! And why have you never told us?" quoth madame, her eyes turned enviously
upon the young man--as enviously as were Lavedan's turned in disgust. "It is a thousand pities
that Monsieur de Bardelys has altered his plans and is no longer coming to us. To meet such
a man is to breathe again the air of the grand monde. You remember, Monsieur de Lesperon, that
affair with the Duchess de Bourgogne?" And she smiled wickedly in my direction.

"I have some recollection of it," I answered coldly. "But I think that rumour exaggerates.
When tongues wag, a little rivulet is often described as a mountain torrent."

"You would not say so did you but know what I know," she informed me roguishly. "Often, I confess,
rumour may swell the importance of such an affaire, but in this case I do not think that rumour
does it justice."

I made a deprecatory gesture, and I would have had the subject changed, but ere I could make
an effort to that end, the fool Saint-Eustache was babbling again.

"You remember the duel that was fought in consequence, Monsieur de Lesperon?"

"Yes," I assented wearily.

"And in which a poor young fellow lost his life," growled the Vicomte. "It was practically
a murder."

"Nay, monsieur," I cried, with a sudden heat that set them staring at me; "there you do him
wrong. Monsieur de Bardelys was opposed to the best blade in France. The man's reputation as
a swordsman was of such a quality that for a twelvemonth he had been living upon it, doing
all manner of unseemly things immune from punishment by the fear in which he was universally
held. His behaviour in the unfortunate affair we are discussing was of a particularly shameful
character. Oh, I know the details, messieurs, I can sure you. He thought to impose his reputation
upon Bardelys as he had imposed it upon a hundred others, but Bardelys was over-tough for his
teeth. He sent that notorious young gentleman a challenge, and on the following morning he
left him dead in the horsemarket behind the Hotel Vendome. But far from a murder, monsieur,
it was an act of justice, and the most richly earned punishment with which ever man was visited."

"Even if so," cried the Vicomte in some surprise, "why all this heat to defend a brawler?"

"A brawler?" I repeated after him. "Oh, no. That is a charge his worst enemies cannot make
against Bardelys. He is no brawler. The duel in question was his first affair of the kind,
and it has been his last, for unto him has clung the reputation that had belonged until then
to La Vertoile, and there is none in France bold enough to send a challenge to him." And, seeing
what surprise I was provoking, I thought it well to involve another with me in his defence.
So, turning to the Chevalier, "I am sure," said I, "that Monsieur de Saint-Eustache will confirm
my words."

Thereupon, his vanity being all aroused, the Chevalier set himself to paraphrase all that I
had said with a heat that cast mine into a miserable insignificance.

"At least," laughed the Vicomte at length, "he lacks not for champions. For my own part, I
am content to pray Heaven that he come not to Lavedan, as he intended."

"Mais voyons, Gaston," the Vicomtesse protested, "why harbour prejudice? Wait at least until
you have seen him, that you may judge him for yourself."

"Already have I judged him; I pray that I may never see him."

"They tell me he is a very handsome man," said she, appealing to me for confirmation. Lavedan
shot her a sudden glance of alarm, at which I could have laughed. Hitherto his sole concern
had been his daughter, but it suddenly occurred to him that perhaps not even her years might
set the Vicomtesse in safety from imprudences with this devourer of hearts, should he still
chance to come that way.

"Madame," I answered, "he is accounted not ill-favored." And with a deprecatory smile I added,
"I am said somewhat to resemble him."

"Say you so?" she exclaimed, raising her eyebrows, and looking at me more closely than hitherto.
And then it seemed to me that into her face crept a shade of disappointment. If this Bardelys
were not more beautiful than I, then he was not nearly so beautiful a man as she had imagined.
She turned to Saint-Eustache.

"It is indeed so, Chevalier?" she inquired. "Do you note the resemblance?"

"Vanitas, vanitate," murmured the youth, who had some scraps of Latin and a taste for airing
them. "I can see no likeness--no trace of one. Monsieur de Lesperon is well enough, I should
say. But Bardelys!" He cast his eyes to the ceiling. "There is but one Bardelys in France."

"Enfin," I laughed, "you are no doubt well qualified to judge, Chevalier. I had flattered myself
that some likeness did exist, but probably you have seen the Marquis more frequently than have
I, and probably you know him better. Nevertheless, should he come his way, I will ask you to
look at us side by side and be the judge of the resemblance."

"Should I happen to be here," he said, with a sudden constraint not difficult to understand,
"I shall be happy to act as arbiter."

"Should you happen to be here?" I echoed questioningly. "But surely, should you hear that Monsieur
de Bardelys is about to arrive, you will postpone any departure you may be on the point of
making, so that you may renew this great friendship that you tell us you do the Marquis the
honour of entertaining for him?"

The Chevalier eyed me with the air of a man looking down from a great height upon another.
The Vicomte smiled quietly to himself as he combed his fair beard with his forefinger in a
meditative fashion, whilst even Roxalanne--who had sat silently listening to a conversation
that she was at times mercifully spared from following too minutely--flashed me a humorous
glance. To the Vicomtesse alone who in common with women of her type was of a singular obtuseness--was
the situation without significance.

Saint-Eustache, to defend himself against my delicate imputation, and to show how well acquainted
he was with Bardelys, plunged at once into a thousand details of that gentleman's magnificence.
He described his suppers, his retinue, his equipages, his houses, his chateaux, his favour
with the King, his successes with the fair sex, and I know not what besides--in all of which
I confess that even to me there was a certain degree of novelty. Roxalanne listened with an
air of amusement that showed how well she read him. Later, when I found myself alone with her
by the river, whither we had gone after the repast and the Chevalier's reminiscences were at
an end, she reverted to that conversation.

"Is not my cousin a great fanfarron, monsieur," she asked.

"Surely you know your cousin better than I," I answered cautiously. "Why question me upon his
character?"

"I was hardly questioning; I was commenting. He spent a fortnight in Paris once, and he accounts
himself, or would have us account him, intimate with every courtier at the Luxembourg. Oh,
he is very amusing, this good cousin, but tiresome too." She laughed, and there was the faintest
note of scorn in her amusement. "Now, touching this Marquis de Bardelys, it is very plain that
the Chevalier boasted when he said that they were as brothers--he and the Marquis--is it not?
He grew ill at ease when you reminded him of the possibility of the Marquis's visit to Lavedan."
And she laughed quaintly to herself. "Do you think that he so much as knows Bardelys?" she
asked me suddenly.

"Not so much as by sight," I answered. "He is full of information concerning that unworthy
gentleman, but it is only information that the meanest scullion in Paris might afford you,
and just as inaccurate."

"Why do you speak of him as unworthy? Are you of the same opinion as my father?"

"Aye, and with better cause."

"You know him well?"

"Know him? Pardieu, he is my worst enemy. A worn-out libertine; a sneering, cynical misogynist;
a nauseated reveller; a hateful egotist. There is no more unworthy person, I'll swear, in all
France. Peste! The very memory of the fellow makes me sick. Let us talk of other things."

But although I urged it with the best will and the best intentions in the world, I was not
to have my way. The air became suddenly heavy with the scent of musk, and the Chevalier de
Saint-Eustache stood before us, and forced the conversation once more upon the odious topic
of Monsieur de Bardelys.

The poor fool came with a plan of campaign carefully considered, bent now upon overthrowing
me with the knowledge he would exhibit, and whereby he looked to encompass my humiliation before
his cousin.

"Speaking of Bardelys, Monsieur de Lesperon--"

"My dear Chevalier, we were no longer speaking of him."

He smiled darkly. "Let us speak of him, then."

"But are there not a thousand more interesting things that we might speak of?"

This he took for a fresh sign of fear, and so he pressed what he accounted his advantage.

"Yet have patience; there is a point on which perhaps you can give me some information."

"Impossible," said I.

"Are you acquainted with the Duchesse de Bourgogne?"

"I was," I answered casually, and as casually I added, "Are you?"

"Excellently well," he replied unhesitatingly. "I was in Paris at the time of the scandal with
Bardelys."

I looked up quickly.

"Was it then that you met her?" I inquired in an idle sort of way.

"Yes. I was in the confidence of Bardelys, and one night after we had supped at his hotel--one
of those suppers graced by every wit in Paris--he asked me if I were minded to accompany him
to the Louvre. We went. A masque was in progress."

"Ah," said I, after the manner of one who suddenly takes in the entire situation; "and it was
at this masque that you met the Duchesse?"

"You have guessed it. Ah, monsieur, if I were to tell you of the things that I witnessed that
night, they would amaze you," said he, with a great air and a casual glance at Mademoiselle
to see into what depth of wonder these glimpses into his wicked past were plunging her.

"I doubt it not," said I, thinking that if his imagination were as fertile in that connection
as it had been in mine he was likely, indeed, to have some amazing things to tell. "But do
I understand you to say that that was the time of the scandal you have touched upon?"

"The scandal burst three days after that masque. It came as a surprise to most people. As for
me--from what Bardelys had told me--I expected nothing less."

"Pardon, Chevalier, but how old do you happen to be?"

"A curious question that," said he, knitting his brows.

"Perhaps. But will you not answer it?"

"I am twenty-one," said he. "What of it?"

"You are twenty, mon cousin," Roxalanne corrected him.

He looked at her a second with an injured air.

"Why, true--twenty! That is so," he acquiesced; and again, "what of it?" he demanded.

"What of it, monsieur?" I echoed. "Will you forgive me if I express amazement at your precocity,
and congratulate you upon it?"

His brows went if possible closer together and his face grew very red. He knew that somewhere
a pitfall awaited him, yet hardly where.

"I do not understand you."

"Bethink you, Chevalier. Ten years have flown since this scandal you refer to. So that at the
time of your supping with Bardelys and the wits of Paris, at the time of his making a confidant
of you and carrying you off to a masque at the Louvre, at the time of his presenting you to
the Duchesse de Bourgogne, you were just ten years of age. I never had cause to think over-well
of Bardelys, but had you not told me yourself, I should have hesitated to believe him so vile
a despoiler of innocence, such a perverter of youth."

He crimsoned to the very roots of his hair.

Roxalanne broke into a laugh. "My cousin, my cousin," she cried, "they that would become masters
should begin early, is it not so?"

"Monsieur de Lesperon," said he, in a very formal voice, "do you wish me to apprehend that
you have put me through this catechism for the purpose of casting a doubt upon what I have said?"

"But have I done that? Have I cast a doubt?" I asked, with the utmost meekness.

"So I apprehend."

"Then you apprehend amiss. Your words, I assure you, admit of no doubt whatever. And now, monsieur,
if you will have mercy upon me, we will talk of other things. I am so weary of this unfortunate
Bardelys and his affairs. He may be the fashion of Paris and at Court, but down here his very
name befouls the air. Mademoiselle," I said, turning to Roxalanne, "you promised me a lesson
in the lore of flowers."

"Come, then," said she, and, being an exceedingly wise child, she plunged straightway into
the history of the shrubs about us.

Thus did we avert a storm that for a moment was very imminent. Yet some mischief was done,
and some good, too, perhaps. For if I made an enemy of the Chevalier de Saint-Eustache by humbling
him in the eyes of the one woman before whom he sought to shine, I established a bond 'twixt
Roxalanne and myself by that same humiliation of a foolish coxcomb, whose boastfulness had
long wearied her.

CHAPTER VII. THE HOSTILITY OF SAINT-EUSTACHE

In the days that followed I saw much of the Chevalier de Saint-Eustache. He was a very constant
visitor at Lavedan, and the reason of it was not far to seek. For my own part, I disliked him--I
had done so from the moment when first I had set eyes on him--and since hatred, like affection,
is often a matter of reciprocity, the Chevalier was not slow to return my dislike. Our manner
gradually, by almost imperceptible stages, grew more distant, until by the end of a week it
had become so hostile that Lavedan found occasion to comment upon it.

"Beware of Saint-Eustache," he warned me. "You are becoming very manifestly distasteful to
each other, and I would urge you to have a care. I don't trust him. His attachment to our Cause
is of a lukewarm character, and he gives me uneasiness, for he may do much harm if he is so
inclined. It is on this account that I tolerate his presence at Lavedan. Frankly, I fear him,
and I would counsel you to do no less. The man is a liar, even if but a boastful liar and liars
are never long out of mischief."

The wisdom of the words was unquestionable, but the advice in them was not easily followed,
particularly by one whose position was so peculiar as my own. In a way I had little cause to
fear the harm the Chevalier might do me, but I was impelled to consider the harm that at the
same time he might do the Vicomte.

Despite our growing enmity, the Chevalier and I were very frequently thrown together. The reason
for this was, of course, that wherever Roxalanne was to be found there, generally, were we
both to be found also. Yet had I advantages that must have gone to swell a rancour based as
much upon jealousy as any other sentiment, for whilst he was but a daily visitor at Lavedan,
I was established there indefinitely.

Of the use that I made of that time I find it difficult to speak. From the first moment that
I had beheld Roxalanne I had realized the truth of Chatellerault's assertion that I had never
known a woman. He was right. Those that I had met and by whom I had judged the sex had, by
contrast with this child, little claim to the title. Virtue I had accounted a shadow without
substance; innocence, a synonym for ignorance; love, a fable, a fairy tale for the delectation
of overgrown children.

In the company of Roxalanne de Lavedan all those old, cynical beliefs, built up upon a youth
of undesirable experiences, were shattered and the error of them exposed. Swiftly was I becoming
a convert to the faith which so long I had sneered at, and as lovesick as any unfledged youth
in his first amour.

Damn! It was something for a man who had lived as I had lived to have his pulses quicken and
his colour change at a maid's approach; to find himself colouring under her smile and paling
under her disdain; to have his mind running on rhymes, and his soul so enslaved that, if she
is not to be won, chagrin will dislodge it from his body.

Here was a fine mood for a man who had entered upon his business by pledging himself to win
and wed this girl in cold and supreme indifference to her personality. And that pledge, how
I cursed it during those days at Lavedan! How I cursed Chatellerault, cunning, subtle trickster
that he was! How I cursed myself for my lack of chivalry and honour in having been lured so
easily into so damnable a business! For when the memory of that wager rose before me it brought
despair in its train. Had I found Roxalanne the sort of woman that I had looked to find--the
only sort that I had ever known--then matters had been easy. I had set myself in cold blood,
and by such wiles as I knew, to win such affection as might be hers to bestow; and I would
have married her in much the same spirit as a man performs any other of the necessary acts
of his lifetime and station. I would have told her that I was Bardelys, and to the woman that
I had expected to find there had been no difficulty in making the confession. But to Roxalanne!
Had there been no wager, I might have confessed my identity. As it was, I found it impossible
to avow the one without the other. For the sweet innocence that invested her gentle, trusting
soul must have given pause to any but the most abandoned of men before committing a vileness
in connection with her.

We were much together during that week, and just as day by day, hour by hour, my passion grew
and grew until it absorbed me utterly, so, too, did it seem to me that it awakened in her a
responsive note. There was an odd light at times in her soft eyes; I came upon her more than
once with snatches of love-songs on her lips, and when she smiled upon me there was a sweet
tenderness in her smile, which, had things been different, would have gladdened my soul beyond
all else; but which, things being as they were, was rather wont to heighten my despair. I was
no coxcomb; I had had experiences, and I knew these signs. But something, too, I guessed of
the heart of such a one as Roxalanne. To the full I realized the pain and shame I should inflict
upon her when my confession came; I realized, too, how the love of this dear child, so honourable
and high of mind, must turn to contempt and scorn when I plucked away my mask, and let her
see how poor a countenance I wore beneath.

And yet I drifted with the tide of things. It was my habit so to drift, and the habit of a
lifetime is not to be set at naught in a day by a resolve, however firm. A score of times was
I reminded that an evil is but increased by being ignored. A score of times confession trembled
on my lips, and I burned to tell her everything from its inception--the environment that had
erstwhile warped me, the honesty by which I was now inspired--and so cast myself upon the mercy
of her belief.

She might accept my story, and, attaching credit to it, forgive me the deception I had practised,
and recognize the great truth that must ring out in the avowal of my love. But, on the other
hand, she might not accept it; she might deem my confession a shrewd part of my scheme, and
the dread of that kept me silent day by day.

Fully did I see how with every hour that sped confession became more and more difficult. The
sooner the thing were done, the greater the likelihood of my being believed; the later I left
it, the more probable was it that I should be discredited. Alas! Bardelys, it seemed, had added
cowardice to his other short-comings.

As for the coldness of Roxalanne, that was a pretty fable of Chatellerault's; or else no more
than an assumption, an invention of the imaginative La Fosse. It is a people who meditate
everything he does, calculating for excellence and little boastful. Industrial habits have generated
significantly artistic feeling, which harmonizes with the speculation, but art not the picturesque
and passionate, but serious art that involves an idea. The Catalan not vanity but fruitful spring
- that drives progress - because it is lofty, entrepreneur and has a horror all the words: stay
back. He knows no barriers Useful things: if the world did not have English or Anglo-Americans,
the Catalans would Indeed the role of the Saxon races in industry and commerce.

Finally, the population of the provinces (mainly Celtic, but with infusion of subsequent races)
has a semi-Spanish and half-French in their customs and their industry. Lovers of work and very
skilled in all manipulations, the Basque and Navarre change with the greatest happiness of the hoe
and hammer on the gun, if they see their freedoms or franchises seriously threatened. Here nobody
cares preferably with the political situation the nation: the main issue is personal freedom,
in harmony with the interest of the district. Work is the only way to be the man who understands
the Basque. He has such an addiction his freedom, his staff of race, nation and individual, which
retains its own language in spite of everything. Like the catalan is entrepreneurial, cosmopolitan,
if necessary. Whenever he looks jealous to preserve and exercise their initiative in every work
of social activity. Patient and tenacious, half-hearted, likes to lock himself in his individuality
to make things with aplomb - which does not prevent him always served the association for
all that is required collective strength and power, or a beneficent action.

The natural consequences of all these characteristic features are noticed in the social condition
loa four different groups that make up the continental Spain. Without ignoring some exceptions purely
local, or that manifest in better-educated classes, the general rules are no less justified, and can
be summarized as follows:

In the Spain that was radically changed by the Arabs or Moors, is met almost all Spanish society
which has produced most beautiful, big, rich and sublime on fine arts. There is no inch of
usable land that is not subject to cultivation. The show much skill manufacturing jobs and
happy inspiration. The Art of the irrigation is generally known and practiced skill dog. Where
land ownership is not something divided (and this is rare), supplemented with the population of movable
property, whether in agriculture, the livestock industry, small manufacturing, etc., so that
the mass is prolatarios While relatively small. The trend to the possession of something very
general, and with it instincts and habits of independence. Populations are little or no superstitious.
The begging exists only in very small scale, and that, reduced to the major cities in no case
comes from the instincts of the Arab race, but of economic causes and ancient monastic traditions.
There is no true welfare of the masses, as far as possible in the present state of society. Liberalism
is great in all populations. The economic movement is very active in all branches of production.
People love neatness and elegance. In a word, Moorish Spain, with a much smaller territory
to half of Gothic Spain, and a population equal to 66 percent of it, is at least four times
higher in social movement, wealth, welfare and civilization.

On the contrary, the Gothic Spain, covering more than half of the territory and population continental,
and contains so vast fertile plains and alti-plains in inaction vegeta and poverty (with rare exceptions)
is pleased to isolation, with no interest in communications; tolerate dirt everywhere and neglect, is literally
full of beggars, keeping begging as an institution, has an amazing profusion of ancient churches
and convents; look with disdain the beauties of vegetation, and is extremely backward in the art of
agriculture and manufacturing. There (quite the opposite of the other parts of Spain) the fields are
deserts, and the population is concentrated in cities and villages, where persistently keeps habits
of laziness, prudery and begging. The clergy (without noticeable influence, or nearly mule in politics
and social education in the other groups) is very central Spain still powerful to resist the damage
or progress, because it can easily influence on idle mobs clustered in localities. The customs
of the clergy are not austere, or thing it seems, does not take any interest in popular instruction,
and mixed in committed policy whenever it sees its own interests. In general it is greedy,
and their primary care is to ensure good income.

Life within that part of Spanish society ew monotonous and sad.

The appearance of the people is always gloomy, owing to his clothes, a yellowish-brown ink on
general. The buildings lack the grace, and elegance of simplicity and seduction of the picturesque.
The people divided only their attention, in entertainment, between the church and the bull ring,
ie, two mysticism - that of the traditional faith and danger. In conclusion, the old Spain (with
the exception of the ports of the Cantabrian coast, the city Madrid and Valladolid in part)
is deeply backward and stagnant at all. And worse is that even still has the notion of progress,
because they support or even understand enough railways and other elements of communication.

Although
the provinces are actually small republics, by the nature of its institutions and special ways,
and thus form a relatively superior to that of Catalonia the two
are so homogeneous in their general features, which can be understood
in a common appreciation.

It is in these two sections where the people have always shown greater respect and more tenacious
in the defense and preservation of its rights or municipal liberties, what which in ancient times
gave as examples the Aragonese nobles, the most liberal fraction and the strongest personality
among those that make up the second group.

Provinces in Catalonia and all progress is accepted with enthusiasm and perseverance by populations.

In
them there is no begging, beggars found in some Catalan towns come
almost all of Aragon, where down to exploit the industrious and commercial
spaces.

In the two groups that are major centers to Barcelona and Bilbao, intolerance Castilian, which
repels the foreign and new, has no place.

On the contrary, overseas is welcomed there with pleasure, and all involved new progress in civilization
is the most cordial hospitality. Municipal liberties and individualism have been fruitful to these
people industrious, thoughtful throughout, zealous to uphold the law, integrity and severe
in meeting any commitments. In no part of the peninsula is so deep as there the feeling of personality
(forgive me to repeat it), and HOWEVER, is there which presents more powerful the spirit of partnership.
This proves that there is no antagonism natural between the individual and collective, and that
man when he is personally free always seeking the support of the other individual strengths,
because it is a social being, and makes collective things much better than the socialist powers seeking
to absorb the initiative individuals on behalf of the common law.

Provinces in Catalonia and the democratic sentiment runs deep. There is the proletarian a man and
a citizen, he lives the work and is aware that work is given in society a supreme title which
entitles to the consideration and independence. These Both towns are the only ones who are left to
absorb the proposed unity of the nation Spanish, looking unit that
rests on truly liberal institutions, popular and national.

The Catalan and Basque keep their language, literature, traditions peculiar freedoms and shall
be considered as separate peoples. They summarize what is more prosperous and strong, the most
prolific and distinguished in the political, social and economic of Spain, and there is no
exaggeration to say that just as England Catalonia is Spanish, Provinces are the French mainland.
There are missing religious fanaticism, the taste for monopoly (although the Catalans are protectionist
by reason of its factories), and the veneration sable or militarism. The day that these people
are founding of the Republic, the change would be insensitive to the social and economic scarcely
would be an upward movement political. It is within these people which is the true seed of democracy
Spanish.

The result of the previous comparison is obvious, embracing the whole nation Spanish. It consists of
several villages, formed by crossing more or less intense of different races, and the various
activities of the institutions that have governed. Where want to counter that has reigned without
any absolute power socialism, social life has stalled. Torquemada where Philip II and have left
the deepest traces of their passage, the field has become sterile
or not has been rough but thorns and weeds.

Where convents and the clergy have dominated more strongly, begging has become endemic, idleness
great, gross superstitions, deep love of isolation, to the routine, the neglect and uncleanliness.
Where charters have missed the former (ie, freedoms or guarantees), industry, agriculture and
trade have remained steady, after The retrogradation hauled by the expulsion of the Moors and
Jews. Wherever you see the bad fruits of an education vicious and corrupting. On domestic morality
of central Spain is not an effect but the old Castilian pride and social isolation and in no way the
result of institutions above, who have made every effort to corrupt the people.

On the contrary, where the blood had been inoculated and customs of a people liberal, of spiritual religion,
equalizing and fraternal, and lover of nature (the Arab people or moro), is considerable prosperity.
Where fighting was duality, or religions, there is more tolerance, less fanatical, but alive
instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and power. Where
traditions have taken root economic freedom (that was the secret of the agricultural wonders, artists and
industrialists of the Moors), activity is visible, prosperity satisfactory,
in spite of the dismal action of regulatory laws and prohibitive.

In the villages (the Basques) where no no monopolies, no soldiers, no bans or acquiring authority,
or indirect taxes ruinous, no police Inquisition, oppressive centralization, everything is
spontaneous and virile all prosper, peace reigns, the customs are pure, sweet and peaceful,
the ball game almost replaced the bloody bulls games, the game does not exist as passion and
speculation, real property is very divided, life is free, easy and cheap elementary instruction
is rather widespread, advanced civilization in every way, the population is much more condensed.

Catalonia, although much less independent of central government, the situation resembles to the
provinces, and is conspicuous by its industry and wealth, precisely because it has been less exposed
to the baneful influence of socialism despotic, brutal and corrosive opened by Carlos V and
Felipe II, socialism whose formulas were: the accusation, leveling in obedience passive, the
convent, the unity of religion, isolation, Spanish, prohibition, regulation of life, in short,
the complete suppression of individuality.

Such are the lessons to provide the present and the past of Spain,
comparing the situation four social groups most characteristic.

What is that justice may portend about the future of that nation? To answer this question it is
necessary to summarize the general features offered throughout Spain, for its constitution,
its government, its parties, social character, their education, their ideas, their economic
life, its literature and aspirations.

The Spanish Constitution is the image of the situation of the people
whom he governs.

They all coexist by halves, without a well defined character. It is a traditional monarchy or legitimacy
half divine right, half-roots, so that neither the aristocracy nor absolutism nor democracy
have authority or power or prestige, if not to hinder and damage each other. Parliamentary forms
and the apparent origin, but to the government obeys the courtesans influences to those of
the opinion. Very restricted circle of voters and powerful means of corruption, voting is always
the power, with no example of a ministry loses the election.

The parties, disoriented by lack of and operating principles in all cases the situations are exploited
to turn the power nation without any thing to win ministerial fluctuations. Little more or less
all governing parties by the same means: force, repression, intrigue, corruption of conscience.
Strange! the bulk of the Spanish people hate the government sable and wish the downfall of militarism,
and all ministries HOWEVER rely on on the bayonets.

Spain's mainstream institutions seem to have been calculated to counteract any tendency progress.
In vain the Constitution established the legal equality, if the law restricts imports and all
changes, pregnant traffic, regulate many industries make it extremely difficult for youth access
to the professions, and subject to dire hindrance the best companies. A single example, for a very
subordinate interest, simply in order to understand how disastrous are the effects of restrictive
regulatory regime that prevails in most of Spain. Shortly before my arrival at Madrid, the
government had wanted to befriend the porters, whose service is regulated. To this end set a rate
that was in the service of every waiter the price of four reales
for a trip or diligence within the city be so forbidden to all charge
more or less for their work.

This, no doubt, in deference to the porters and the public. A few days after the reform, the porters
were quejosísimos the government because they did not win anything. The reason was simple. Earlier,
arranging freely with individuals and making competition, winning six, eight or ten reales per
day, at very low prices because they made many commitments or services. But with the high tariff,
the public has ceased to occupy, and triple or quadruple the price of very rare commissions were
not compensated for the losses in the number of operations.

Spain is a country that abounds in paper mills, although the product is usually defective.
Economic protection prohibits the importation of foreign paper, forcing the Spanish to serve their
own. What is the result? The thought that has suffered famine in 1859-60 proves that the prohibition
only serves to give a privilege to manufacture and maintain national stationary. For many months
have not been printing paper for their publications, impotence of the privileged. In Spain,
classic wheat and all kinds of cereals, often seen the strange phenomenon of a grain shortage that
threatens to produce hunger! Why? Because people do not have the freedom to import grain when the
crops are scarce by lack of rain. Spain (it is worth repeating) is one of the countries of Europe
where snuff smokes worse (if not contraband), - and it belongs in
the production monopoly of Cuba, Puerto-Rico and Manila!

Prohibitive and protective tariffs, and therefore very high and over-regulation, make it difficult
and relatively small trade of a State as large as that. What is the result? The corruption of officials
of customs service, and smuggling huge and shocking, sadly respond. Spanish treasure lost by
what goes underground to the whole country (mainly Gibraltar, Portugal and the Pyrenees) three times
matter what a strong reduction in rates. But it remains a fatal, a spirit of routine and deep backlog
of statesmen in the knowledge of social economy.

Studied with attention and without warning to the Spanish people, is that he has many features outstanding
qualities, and many very serious shortcomings of education.

All that is good comes from nature, which provided him with admirably, like everything what is wrong
is the result of deeply corrupting institutions. It is a town loyal, honest, hospitable, very
sober and frugal, patient, courageous, capable of all prowess and all the efforts of a great race. But
it lacks, in general, the spirit initiative, spontaneity, - because the bad governments have become accustomed
to the sedentary life, inertia and routine at all. There are many things vicious, hateful,
that the Spanish people love, not by inclination but by habit. The game, bullfights, cockfights,
etc.., There are because the government encourages and exploits with lotteries, circus officials,
taxes, etc. The Spanish literally live among the vines, and consume
very little wine.

If the laws had intemperance exploited as a prosecutor, is sure to abound as drunks players
and beggars. And convents and tax laws have created the begging oppressive regulations have
established official corruption and maintained an administration incapable consuming and convoluted.

Spanish
society is amazingly smart, and great talents born where want. I have not seen any kind in Spain
that resembles nothing to the peasants of France (The Central and the Pyrenees in particular),
whose stupidity is only comparable to that of the Indians of the alti-Andean plains. But of
what use are clear that intelligence, that good and that penetration shrewd sense that distinguish
the Spanish people? The vicious public education the thousands of occupational barriers, the
brutal oppression weighing on the media, and intolerance religion (abject for the Roman Court) annulled
the intellectual advantages that nature granted to the Spanish. Thus the great mass of people are
profoundly ignorant, in general; the middle class is at the height of his legal position, not well
understood his role in a constitutional monarchy, the nobility is ignorant and superficial in
their great majority, the clergy is unable to fill their high ministry in a manner worthy of
the current civilization, and youth, gagged in the field of the press, and public forum and overwhelmed
by the organization privileged to have the liberal professions, is
condemned to the vague and nebulous controversies and speculations
of German philosophy, political economy purely theoretical brochures
and literature, and translations futilities petty and bad taste.

The Spanish people are one of those in the Old World are more deeply rooted feeling Personality
and equality. Without that, he would have died long ago, smothered despotism. This is a quality
that resists all, because it is in the blood and supports in topography, climate, even in the traditions
of the language. Therefore, Spain is one of the best elements of democracy in Europe. Spain
will be republican and democratic deveras long before France, Germany, England and other great nations
of Europe.

But today is a people coarse, rough education, whose polish will not come until after the whole
society has entered into a broad way of freedom of movement and progress. The language is very
rough on all classes of society. Too earnest and free, replaces the subtleties of satire or persuasive
style with the brutal eloquence of obscene interjections. In addition, the Spanish suffer from
certain shortcomings that neutralize much of its fine qualities. Their nationality or social arrogance,
which is not going on to lag behind that of the Portuguese, obfuscate
them so that, taking them to the sterile quixotic and the most ridiculous
exaggerations, do not let them recognize the backwardness of their
country.

They believe the first people in the world, in any and every situation, despite their weakness, ignorance,
habits of filth, homelessness and employment-mania, and its deplorable indifference to the
common interests which is the best coat of bad governments.

That will not happen but to under friction with other nations. Freedom will have many miracles
in Spain.

But if there's civilization is far behind on other European societies, there to think about
why Spain does not progress. Four centuries of tyranny, intolerance and errors unheard, have
left behind them a people who, if he had been ruled as England from 1688, today would be the
first people in the world. Despite that, the Spain of today is very distant greatly from that of
1825, visible progress, and in just five years after the passing quasi-revolution of 1854, has
made great strides.

Perhaps will say: "If the majority of Spanish people have such good character traits, Why is let evil
rule and does not change your situation? "The explanation is simple. Is that in Spain there has
been so far, no revolution, but simply struggle: that of independence
first, and then civil strife.

Germany had a grand revolution with religious reform; England two of the seventeenth century, France's
philosophy and 1789.

But Spain has not experienced anything similar. Struggles passing situations change apparent
and the characters change something: the great revolutions are just ideas peoples. Spanish
has the instincts of democracy and progress, but lacks subsequent convictions, the ideas are
translated later in institutions. Napoleon unfriendly made in Spain with the invasion, the ideas
of the French Revolution.

They come by one of two ways: either liberal reform, honest and determined, initiated by the Government,
which is what has the strength, - or the revolution.
 He gave
me the lie. I struck him--could I do less?--and he drew. I defended myself, and I supplemented
my defence by a caning, so that this poor Saint-Eustache might realize the unworthiness of
what he had done. That is all, madame."

But she was not so easily to be appeased, not even when Mademoiselle and the Vicomte joined
their voices to mine in extenuation of my conduct. It was like Lavedan. For all that he was
full of dread of the result and of the vengeance Saint-Eustache might wreak--boy though he
was--he expressed himself freely touching the Chevalier's behaviour and the fittingness of
the punishment that had overtaken him.

The Vicomtesse stood in small awe of her husband, but his judgment upon a point of honour was
a matter that she would not dare contest. She was ministering to the still prostrate Chevalier
who, I think, remained prostrate now that he might continue to make appeal to her sympathy--when
suddenly she cut in upon Roxalanne's defence of me.

"Where have you been?" she demanded suddenly.

"When, my mother?"

"This afternoon," answered the Vicomtesse impatiently. "The Chevalier was waiting two hours
for you."

Roxalanne coloured to the roots of her hair. The Vicomte frowned.

"Waiting for me, my mother? But why for me?"

"Answer my question--where have you been?"

"I was with Monsieur de Lesperon," she answered simply.

"Alone?" the Vicomtesse almost shrieked.

"But yes." The poor child's tones were laden with wonder at this catechism.

"God's death!" she snapped. "It seems that my daughter is no better than--"

Heaven knows what may have been coming, for she had the most virulent, scandalous tongue that
I have ever known in a woman's head--which is much for one who has lived at Court to say. But
the Vicomte, sharing my fears, perhaps, and wishing to spare the child's ears, interposed quickly
"Come, madame, what airs are these? What sudden assumption of graces that we do not affect?
We are not in Paris. This is not the Luxembourg. En province comme en province, and here we
are simple folk--"

"Simple folk?" she interrupted, gasping. "By God, am I married to a ploughman? Am I Vicomtesse
of Lavedan, or the wife of a boor of the countryside? And is the honour of your daughter a
matter--"

"The honour of my daughter is not in question, madame," he interrupted in his turn, and with
a sudden sternness that spent the fire of her indignation as a spark that is trampled underfoot.
Then, in a calm, level voice: "Ah, here are the servants," said he.

"Permit them, madame, to take charge of Monsieur de Saint-Eustache. Anatole, you had better
order the carriage for Monsieur le Chevalier. I do not think that he will be able to ride home."

Anatole peered at the pale young gentleman on the ground, then he turned his little wizened
face upon me, and grinned in a singularly solemn fashion. Monsieur de Saint-Eustache was little
loved, it seemed.

Leaning heavily upon the arm of one of the lacqueys, the Chevalier moved painfully towards
the courtyard, where the carriage was being prepared for him. At the last moment he turned
and beckoned the Vicomte to his side.

"As God lives, Monsieur de Lavedan," he swore, breathing heavily in the fury that beset him,
"you shall bitterly regret having taken sides to-day with that Gascon bully. Remember me, both
of you, when you are journeying to Toulouse."

The Vicomte stood beside him, impassive and unmoved by that grim threat, for all that to him
it must have sounded like a death-sentence.

"Adieu, monsieur--a speedy recovery," was all he answered.

But I stepped up to them. "Do you not think, Vicomte, that it were better to detain him?" I asked.

"Pshaw!" he ejaculated. "Let him go."

The Chevalier's eyes met mine in a look of terror. Perhaps already that young man repented
him of his menace, and he realized the folly of threatening one in whose power he still chanced
to be.

"Bethink you, monsieur," I cried. "Yours is a noble and useful life. Mine is not without value,
either. Shall we suffer these lives--aye, and the happiness of your wife and daughter--to be
destroyed by this vermin?"

"Let him go, monsieur; let him go. I am not afraid."

I bowed and stepped back, motioning to the lacquey to take the fellow away, much as I should
have motioned him to remove some uncleanness from before me.

The Vicomtesse withdrew in high dudgeon to her chamber, and I did not see her again that evening.
Mademoiselle I saw once, for a moment, and she employed that moment to question me touching
the origin of my quarrel with Saint-Eustache.

"Did he really lie, Monsieur de Lesperon?" she asked.

"Upon my honour, mademoiselle," I answered solemnly, "I have plighted my troth to no living
woman." Then my chin sank to my breast as I bethought me of how tomorrow she must opine me
the vilest liar living--for I was resolved to be gone before Marsac arrived--since the real
Lesperon I did not doubt was, indeed, betrothed to Mademoiselle de Marsac.

"I shall leave Lavedan betimes to-morrow, mademoiselle," I pursued presently. "What has happened
to-day makes my departure all the more urgent. Delay may have its dangers. You will hear strange
things of me, as already I have warned you. But be merciful. Much will be true, much false;
yet the truth itself is very vile, and--" I stopped short, in despair of explaining or even
tempering what had to come. I shrugged my shoulders in my abandonment of hope, and I turned
towards the window. She crossed the room and came to stand beside me.

"Will you not tell me? Have you no faith in me? Ah, Monsieur de Lesperon--"

"'Sh! child, I cannot. It is too late to tell you now."

"Oh, not too late! From what you say they will tell me, I should think, perhaps, worse of you
than you deserve. What is this thing you hide? What is this mystery? Tell me, monsieur. Tell me."

Did ever woman more plainly tell a man she loved him, and that loving him she would find all
excuses for him? Was ever woman in better case to hear a confession from the man that loved
her, and of whose love she was assured by every instinct that her sex possesses in such matters?
Those two questions leapt into my mind, and in resolving them I all but determined to speak
even now in the eleventh hour.

And then--I know not how--a fresh barrier seemed to arise. It was not merely a matter of telling
her of the wager I was embarked upon; not merely a matter of telling her of the duplicity that
I had practised, of the impostures by which I had gained admittance to her father's confidence
and trust; not merely a matter of confessing that I was not Lesperon. There would still be
the necessity of saying who I was. Even if she forgave all else, could she forgive me for being
Bardelys the notorious Bardelys, the libertine, the rake, some of whose exploits she had heard
of from her mother, painted a hundred times blacker than they really were? Might she not shrink
from me when I told her I was that man? In her pure innocence she deemed, no doubt, that the
life of every man who accounted himself a gentleman was moderately clean. She would not see
in me--as did her mother--no more than a type of the best class in France, and having no more
than the vices of my order. As a monster of profligacy might she behold me, and that--ah, Dieu!--I
could not endure that she should do whilst I was by.

It may be--indeed, now, as I look back, I know that I exaggerated my case. I imagined she would
see it as I saw it then. For would you credit it? With this great love that was now come to
me, it seemed the ideals of my boyhood were returned, and I abhorred the man that I had been.
The life I had led now filled me with disgust and loathing; the notions I had formed seemed
to me now all vicious and distorted, my cynicism shallow and unjust.

"Monsieur de Lesperon," she called softly to me, noting my silence.

I turned to her. I set my hand lightly upon her arm; I let my gaze encounter the upward glance
of her eyes--blue as forget-me-nots.

"You suffer!" she murmured, with sweet compassion.

"Worse, Roxalanne! I have sown in your heart too the seed of suffering. Oh, I am too unworthy!"
I cried out; "and when you come to discover how unworthy it will hurt you; it will sting your
pride to think how kind you were to me." She smiled incredulously, in denial of my words. "No,
child; I cannot tell you."

She sighed, and then before more could be said there was a sound at the door, and we started
away from each other. The Vicomte entered, and my last chance of confessing, of perhaps averting
much of what followed, was lost to me.

CHAPTER VIII. THE PORTRAIT

Into the mind of every thoughtful man must come at times with bitterness the reflection of
how utterly we are at the mercy of Fate, the victims of her every whim and caprice. We may
set out with the loftiest, the sternest resolutions to steer our lives along a well-considered
course, yet the slightest of fortuitous circumstances will suffice to force us into a direction
that we had no thought of taking.

Now, had it pleased Monsieur de Marsac to have come to Lavedan at any reasonable hour of the
day, I should have been already upon the road to Paris, intent to own defeat and pay my wager.
A night of thought, besides strengthening my determination to follow such a course, had brought
the reflection that I might thereafter return to Roxalanne, a poor man, it is true, but one
at least whose intentions might not be misconstrued.

And so, when at last I sank into sleep, my mind was happier than it had been for many days.
Of Roxalanne's love I was assured, and it seemed that I might win her, after all, once I removed
the barrier of shame that now deterred me. It may be that those thoughts kept me awake until
a late hour, and that to this I owe it that when on the morrow I awakened the morning was well
advanced. The sun was flooding my chamber, and at my bedside stood Anatole.

"What's o'clock?" I inquired, sitting bolt upright.

"Past ten," said he, with stern disapproval.

"And you have let me sleep?" I cried.

"We do little else at Lavedan even when we are awake," he grumbled. "There was no reason why
monsieur should rise." Then, holding out a paper, "Monsieur Stanislas de Marsac was here betimes
this morning with Mademoiselle his sister. He left this letter for you, monsieur."

Amaze and apprehension were quickly followed by relief, since Anatole's words suggested that
Marsac had not remained. I took the letter, nevertheless, with some misgivings, and whilst
I turned it over in my hands I questioned the old servant.

"He stayed an hour at the chateau, monsieur," Anatole informed me. "Monsieur le Vicomte would
have had you roused, but he would not hear of it. 'If what Monsieur de Saint-Eustache has told
me touching your guest should prove to be true,' said he, 'I would prefer not to meet him under
your roof, monsieur.' 'Monsieur de Saint-Eustache,' my master replied, 'is not a person whose
word should have weight with any man of honour.' But in spite of that, Monsieur de Marsac held
to his resolve, and although he would offer no explanation in answer to my master's many questions,
you were not aroused.

"At the end of a half-hour his sister entered with Mademoiselle. They had been walking together
on the terrace, and Mademoiselle de Marsac appeared very angry. 'Affairs are exactly as Monsieur
de Saint-Eustache has represented them,' said she to her brother. At that he swore a most villainous
oath, and called for writing materials. At the moment of his departure he desired me to deliver
this letter to you, and then rode away in a fury, and, seemingly, not on the best of terms
with Monsieur le Vicomte."

"And his sister?" I asked quickly.

"She went with him. A fine pair, as I live!" he added, casting his eyes to the ceiling.

At least I could breathe freely. They were gone, and whatever damage they may have done to
the character of poor Rene de Lesperon ere they departed, they were not there, at all events,
to denounce me for an impostor. With a mental apology to the shade of the departed Lesperon
for all the discredit I was bringing down upon his name, I broke the seal of that momentous
epistle, which enclosed a length of some thirty-two inches of string.

Monsieur [I read], wherever I may chance to meet you it shall be my duty to kill you.

A rich beginning, in all faith! If he could but maintain that uncompromising dramatic flavour
to the end, his epistle should be worth the trouble of deciphering, for he penned a vile scrawl
of pothooks.

It is because of this [the letter proceeded] that I have refrained from coming face to face
with you this morning. The times are too troublous and the province is in too dangerous a condition
to admit of an act that might draw the eyes of the Keeper of the Seals upon Lavedan. To my
respect, then, to Monsieur le Vicomte and to my own devotion to the Cause we mutually serve
do you owe it that you still live. I am on my way to Spain to seek shelter there from the King's
vengeance.

To save myself is a duty that I owe as much to myself as to the Cause. But there is another
duty, one that I owe my sister, whom you have so outrageously slighted, and this duty, by God's
grace, I will perform before I leave. Of your honour, monsieur, we will not speak, for reasons
into which I need not enter, and I make no appeal to it. But if you have a spark of manhood
left, if you are not an utter craven as well as a knave, I shall expect you on the day after
tomorrow, at any hour before noon, at the Auberge de la Couronne at Grenade. There, monsieur,
if you please, we will adjust our differences. That you may come prepared, and so that no time
need be wasted when we meet, I send you the length of my sword.

Thus ended that angry, fire-breathing epistle. I refolded it thoughtfully, then, having taken
my resolve, I leapt from the bed and desired Anatole to assist me to dress.

I found the Vicomte much exercised in mind as to the meaning of Marsac's extraordinary behaviour,
and I was relieved to see that he, at least, could conjecture no cause for it. In reply to
the questions with which he very naturally assailed me, I assured him that it was no more than
a matter of a misunderstanding; that Monsieur de Marsac had asked me to meet him at Grenade
in two days' time, and that I should then, no doubt, be able to make all clear.

Meanwhile, I regretted the incident, since it necessitated my remaining and encroaching for
two days longer upon the Vicomte's hospitality. To all this, however, he made the reply that
I expected, concluding with the remark that for the present at least it would seem as if the
Chevalier de Saint-Eustache had been satisfied with creating this trouble betwixt myself and
Marsac.

From what Anatole had said, I had already concluded that Marsac had exercised the greatest
reticence. But the interview between his sister and Roxalanne filled me with the gravest anxiety.
Women are not wont to practise the restraint of men under such circumstances, and for all that
Mademoiselle de Marsac may not have expressed it in so many words that I was her faithless
lover, yet women are quick to detect and interpret the signs of disorders springing from such
causes, and I had every fear that Roxalanne was come to the conclusion that I had lied to her
yesternight. With an uneasy spirit, then, I went in quest of her, and I found her walking in
the old rose garden behind the chateau.

She did not at first remark my approach, and I had leisure for some moments to observe her
and to note the sadness that dwelt in her profile and the listlessness of her movements. This,
then, was my work--mine, and that of Monsieur de Chatellerault, and those other merry gentlemen
who had sat at my table in Paris nigh upon a month ago.

I moved, and the gravel crunched under my foot, whereupon she turned, and, at sight of me advancing
towards her, she started. The blood mounted to her face, to ebb again upon the instant, leaving
it paler than it had been. She made as if to depart; then she appeared to check herself, and
stood immovable and outwardly calm, awaiting my approach.

But her eyes were averted, and her bosom rose and fell too swiftly to lend colour to that mask
of indifference she hurriedly put on. Yet, as I drew nigh, she was the first to speak, and
the triviality of her words came as a shock to me, and for all my knowledge of woman's way
caused me to doubt for a moment whether perhaps her calm were not real, after all.

"You are a laggard this morning, Monsieur de Lesperon." And, with a half laugh, she turned
aside to break a rose from its stem.

"True," I answered stupidly; "I slept over-late."

"A thousand pities, since thus you missed seeing Mademoiselle de Marsac. Have they told you
that she was here?"

"Yes, mademoiselle. Stanislas de Marsac left a letter for me."

"You will regret not having seen them, no doubt?" quoth she.

I evaded the interrogative note in her voice. "That is their fault. They appear to have preferred
to avoid me."

"Is it matter for wonder?" she flashed, with a sudden gleam of fury which she as suddenly controlled.
With the old indifference, she added, "You do not seem perturbed, monsieur?"

"On the contrary, mademoiselle; I am very deeply perturbed."

"At not having seen your betrothed?" she asked, and now for the first time her eyes were raised,
and they met mine with a look that was a stab.

"Mademoiselle, I had the honour of telling you yesterday that I had plighted my troth to no
living woman."

At that reminder of yesterday she winced, and I was sorry that I had uttered it, for it must
have set the wound in her pride a-bleeding again. Yesterday I had as much as told her that
I loved her, and yesterday she had as much as answered me that she loved me, for yesterday
I had sworn that Saint-Eustache's story of my betrothal was a lie. To-day she had had assurance
of the truth from the very woman to whom Lesperon's faith was plighted, and I could imagine
something of her shame.

"Yesterday, monsieur," she answered contemptuously, "you lied in many things."

"Nay, I spoke the truth in all. Oh, God in heaven, mademoiselle," I exclaimed in sudden passion,
"will you not believe me? Will you not accept my word for what I say, and have a little patience
until I shall have discharged such obligations as will permit me to explain?"

"Explain?" quoth she, with withering disdain.

"There is a hideous misunderstanding in all this. I am the victim of a miserable chain of circumstances.
Oh, I can say no more! These Marsacs I shall easily pacify. I am to meet Monsieur de Marsac
at Grenade on the day after to-morrow. In my pocket I have a letter from this living sword-blade,
in which he tells me that he will give himself the pleasure of killing me then. Yet--"

"I hope he does, monsieur!" she cut in, with a fierceness before which I fell dumb and left
my sentence unfinished. "I shall pray God that he may!" she added. "You deserve it as no man
deserved it yet!"

For a moment I stood stricken, indeed, by her words. Then, my reason grasping the motive of
that fierceness, a sudden joy pervaded me. It was a fierceness breathing that hatred that is
a part of love, than which, it is true, no hatred can be more deadly. And yet so eloquently
did it tell me of those very feelings which she sought jealously to conceal, that, moved by
a sudden impulse, I stepped close up to her.

"Roxalanne," I said fervently, "you do not hope for it. What would your life be if I were dead?
Child, child, you love me even as I love you." I caught her suddenly to me with infinite tenderness,
with reverence almost. "Can you lend no ear to the voice of this love? Can you not have faith
in me a little? Can you not think that if I were quite as unworthy as you make-believe to your
very self, this love could have no place?"

"It has no place!" she cried. "You lie--as in all things else. I do not love you. I hate you.
Dieu! How I hate you!"

She had lain in my arms until then, with upturned face and piteous, frightened eyes--like a
bird that feels itself within the toils of a snake, yet whose horror is blent with a certain
fascination. Now, as she spoke, her will seemed to reassert itself, and she struggled to break
from me. But as her fierceness of hatred grew, so did my fierceness of resolve gain strength,
and I held her tightly.

"Why do you hate me?" I asked steadily. "Ask yourself, Roxalanne, and tell me what answer your
heart makes. Does it not answer that indeed you do not hate me--that you love me?"

"Oh, God, to be so insulted!" she cried out. "Will you not release me, miserable? Must I call
for help? Oh, you shall suffer for this! As there is a Heaven, you shall be punished!"

But in my passion I held her, despite entreaties, threats, and struggles. I was brutal, if
you will. Yet think of what was in my soul at being so misjudged, at finding myself in this
position, and deal not over harshly with me. The courage to confess which I had lacked for
days, came to me then. I must tell her. Let the result be what it might, it could not be worse
than this, and this I could endure no longer.

"Listen, Roxalanne!"

"I will not listen! Enough of insults have I heard already. Let me go!"

"Nay, but you shall hear me. I am not Rene de Lesperon. Had these Marsacs been less impetuous
and foolish, had they waited to have seen me this morning, they would have told you so."

She paused for a second in her struggles to regard me. Then, with a sudden contemptuous laugh,
she renewed her efforts more vigorously than before.

"What fresh lies do you offer me? Release me, I will hear no more!"

"As Heaven is my witness, I have told you the truth. I know how wild a sound it has, and that
is partly why I did not tell you earlier. But your disdain I cannot suffer. That you should
deem me a liar in professing to love you--"

Her struggles were grown so frantic that I was forced to relax my grip. But this I did with
a suddenness that threw her out of balance, and she was in danger of falling backwards. To
save herself, she caught at my doublet, which was torn open under the strain.

We stood some few feet apart, and, white and palpitating in her anger, she confronted me. Her
eyes lashed me with their scorn, but under my steady, unflinching gaze they fell at last. When
next she raised them there was a smile of quiet but unutterable contempt upon her lips.

"Will you swear," said she, "that you are not Rene de Lesperon? That Mademoiselle de Marsac
is not your betrothed?"

"Yes--by my every hope of Heaven!" I cried passionately.

She continued to survey me with that quiet smile of mocking scorn.

"I have heard it said," quoth she, "that the greatest liars are ever those that are readiest
to take oath." Then, with a sudden gasp of loathing, "I think you have dropped something, monsieur,"
said she, pointing to the ground. And without waiting for more, she swung round and left me.

Face upwards at my feet lay the miniature that poor Lesperon had entrusted to me in his dying
moments. It had dropped from my doublet in the struggle, and I never doubted now but that the
picture it contained was that of Mademoiselle de Marsac.

CHAPTER IX. A NIGHT ALARM

I was returning that same afternoon from a long walk that I had taken--for my mood was of that
unenviable sort that impels a man to be moving--when I found a travelling-chaise drawn up in
the quadrangle as if ready for a journey. As I mounted the steps of the chateau I came face
to face with mademoiselle, descending. I drew aside that she might pass; and this she did with
her chin in the air, and her petticoat drawn to her that it might not touch me.

I would have spoken to her, but her eyes looked straight before her with a glance that was
too forbidding; besides which there was the gaze of a half-dozen grooms upon us. So, bowing
before her--the plume of my doffed hat sweeping the ground--I let her go. Yet I remained standing
where she had passed me, and watched her enter the coach. I looked after the vehicle as it
wheeled round and rattled out over the drawbridge, to raise a cloud of dust on the white, dry
road beyond.

In that hour I experienced a sense of desolation and a pain to which I find it difficult to
give expression. It seemed to me as if she had gone out of my life for all time--as if no reparation
that I could ever make would suffice to win her back after what had passed between us that
morning. Already wounded in her pride by what Mademoiselle de Marsac had told her of our relations,
my behaviour in the rose garden had completed the work of turning into hatred the tender feelings
that but yesterday she had all but confessed for me. That she hated me now, I was well assured.
My reflections as I walked had borne it in upon me how rash, how mad had been my desperate
action, and with bitterness I realized that I had destroyed the last chance of ever mending
matters.

Not even the payment of my wager and my return in my true character could avail me now. The
payment of my wager, forsooth! Even that lost what virtue it might have contained. Where was
the heroism of such an act? Had I not failed, indeed? And was not, therefore, the payment of
my wager become inevitable?

Fool! fool! Why had I not profited that gentle mood of hers when we had drifted down the stream
together? Why had I not told her then of the whole business from its ugly inception down to
the pass to which things were come, adding that to repair the evil I was going back to Paris
to pay my wager, and that when that was done, I would return to ask her to become my wife?
That was the course a man of sense would have adopted. He would have seen the dangers that
beset him in my false position, and would have been quick to have forestalled them in the only
manner possible.

Heigh-ho! It was done. The game was at an end, and I had bungled my part of it like any fool.
One task remained me--that of meeting Marsac at Grenade and doing justice to the memory of
poor Lesperon. What might betide thereafter mattered little. I should be ruined when I had
settled with Chatellerault, and Marcel de Saint-Pol, de Bardelys, that brilliant star in the
firmament of the Court of France, would suffer an abrupt eclipse, would be quenched for all
time. But this weighed little with me then. I had lost everything that I might have valued--everything
that might have brought fresh zest to a jaded, satiated life.

Later that day I was told by the Vicomte that there was a rumour current to the effect that
the Marquis de Bardelys was dead. Idly I inquired how the rumour had been spread, and he told
me that a riderless horse, which had been captured a few days ago by some peasants, had been
recognized by Monsieur de Bardelys's servants as belonging to their master, and that as nothing
had been seen or heard of him for a fortnight, it was believed that he must have met with some
mischance. Not even that piece of information served to arouse my interest. Let them believe
me dead if they would. To him that is suffering worse than death to be accounted dead is a
small matter.

The next day passed without incident. Mademoiselle's absence continued and I would have questioned
the Vicomte concerning it, but a not unnatural hesitancy beset me, and I refrained.

On the morrow I was to leave Lavedan, but there were no preparations to be made, no packing
to be done, for during my sojourn there I had been indebted to the generous hospitality of
the Vicomte for my very apparel. We supped quietly together that night the Vicomte and I--for
the Vicomtesse was keeping her room.

I withdrew early to my chamber, and long I lay awake, revolving a gloomy future in my mind.
I had given no thought to what I should do after having offered my explanation to Monsieur
de Marsac on the morrow, nor could I now bring myself to consider it with any degree of interest.
I would communicate with Chatellerault to inform him that I accounted my wager lost. I would
send him my note of hand, making over to him my Picardy estates, and I would request him to
pay off and disband my servants both in Paris and at Bardelys.

As for myself, I did not know, and, as I have hinted, I cared but little, in what places my
future life might lie. I had still a little property by Beaugency, but scant inclination to
withdraw to it. To Paris I would not return; that much I was determined upon; but upon no more.
I had thoughts of going to Spain. Yet that course seemed no less futile than any other of which
I could bethink me. I fell asleep at last, vowing that it would be a mercy and a fine solution
to the puzzle of how to dispose of the future if I were to awaken no more.

I was, however, destined to be roused again just as the veil of night was being lifted and
the chill breath of dawn was upon the world. There was a loud knocking at the gates of Lavedan,
confused noises of voices, of pattering feet, of doors opening and closing within the chateau.

There was a rapping at my chamber door, and when I went to open, I found the Vicomte on the
threshold, nightcapped, in his shirt, and bearing a lighted taper.

"There are troopers at the gate!" he exclaimed as he entered the room. "That dog Saint-Eustache
has already been at work!"

For all the agitation that must have been besetting him, his manner was serene as ever. "What
are we to do?" he asked.

"You are admitting them--naturally?" said I, inquiry in my voice.

"Why, yes"; and he shrugged his shoulders. "What could it avail us to resist them? Even had
I been prepared for it, it would be futile to attempt to suffer a siege."

I wrapped a dressing-gown about me, for the morning air was chill.

"Monsieur le Vicomte," said I gravely, "I heartily deplore that Monsieur de Marsac's affairs
should have detained me here. But for him, I had left Lavedan two days ago. As it is, I tremble
for you, but we may at least hope that my being taken in your house will draw down no ill results
upon you. I shall never forgive myself if through my having taken refuge here I should have
encompassed your destruction."

"There is no question of that," he replied, with the quick generosity characteristic of the
man. "This is the work of Saint-Eustache. Sooner or later I always feared that it would happen,
for sooner or later he and I must have come to enmity over my daughter. That knave had me in
his power. He knew--being himself outwardly one of us--to what extent I was involved in the
late rebellion, and I knew enough of him to be assured that if some day he should wish to do
me ill, he would never scruple to turn traitor. I am afraid, Monsieur de Lesperon, that it
is not for you alone--perhaps not for you at all--that the soldiers have come, but for me."

Then, before I could answer him, the door was flung wide, and into the room, in nightcap and
hastily donned robe--looking a very meagre in that disfiguring deshabille--swept the Vicomtesse.

"See," she cried to her husband, her strident voice raised in reproach--"see to what a pass
you have brought us!"

"Anne, Anne!" he exclaimed, approaching her and seeking to soothe her; "be calm, my poor child,
and be brave."

But, evading him, she towered, lean and malevolent as a fury.

"Calm?" she echoed contemptuously. "Brave?" Then a short laugh broke from her--a despairing,
mocking, mirthless expression of anger. "By God, do you add effrontery to your other failings?
Dare you bid me be calm and brave in such an hour? Have I been warning you fruitlessly these
twelve months past, that, after disregarding me and deriding my warnings, you should bid me
be calm now that my fears are realized?"

There was a sound of creaking gates below. The Vicomte heard it.

"Madame," he said, putting aside his erstwhile tender manner, and speaking with a lofty dignity,
"the troopers have been admitted. Let me entreat you to retire. It is not befitting our station--"

"What is our station?" she interrupted harshly. "Rebels--proscribed, houseless beggars. That
is our station, thanks to you and your insane meddling with treason. What is to become of us,
fool? What is to become of Roxalanne and me when they shall have hanged you and have driven
us from Lavedan? By God's death, a fine season this to talk of the dignity of our station!
Did I not warn you, malheureux, to leave party faction alone? You laughed at me."

"Madame, your memory does me an injustice," he answered in a strangled voice. "I never laughed
at you in all my life."

"You did as much, at least. Did you not bid me busy myself with women's affairs? Did you not
bid me leave you to follow your own judgment? You have followed it--to a pretty purpose, as
God lives! These gentlemen of the King's will cause you to follow it a little farther," she
pursued, with heartless, loathsome sarcasm. "You will follow it as far as the scaffold at Toulouse.
That, you will tell me, is your own affair. But what provision have you made for your wife
and daughter? Did you marry me and get her to leave us to perish of starvation? Or are we to
turn kitchen wenches or sempstresses for our livelihood?"

With a groan, the Vicomte sank down upon the bed, and covered his face with his hands.

"God pity me!" he cried, in a voice of agony--an agony such as the fear of death could never
have infused into his brave soul; an agony born of the heartlessness of this woman who for
twenty years had shared his bed and board, and who now in the hour of his adversity failed
him so cruelly--so tragically.

"Aye," she mocked in her bitterness, "call upon God to pity you, for I shall not."

She paced the room now, like a caged lioness, her face livid with the fury that possessed her.
She no longer asked questions; she no longer addressed him; oath followed oath from her thin
lips, and the hideousness of this woman's blasphemy made me shudder. At last there were heavy
steps upon the stairs, and, moved by a sudden impulse "Madame," I cried, "let me prevail upon
you to restrain yourself."

She swung round to face me, her dose-set eyes ablaze with anger.

"Sangdieu! By what right do you--" she began but this was no time to let a woman's tongue go
babbling on; no time for ceremony; no season for making a leg and addressing her with a simper.
I caught her viciously by the wrist, and with my face close up to hers "Folle!" I cried, and
I'll swear no man had ever used the word to her before. She gasped and choked in her surprise
and rage. Then lowering my voice lest it should reach the approaching soldiers: "Would you
ruin the Vicomte and yourself?" I muttered. Her eyes asked me a question, and I answered it.
"How do you know that the soldiers have come for your husband? It may be that they are seeking
me--and only me. They may know nothing of the Vicomte's defection. Shall you, then, be the
one to inform them of it by your unbridled rantings and your accusations?"

Her jaw fell open in astonishment. This was a side of the question she had not considered.

"Let me prevail upon you, madame, to withdraw and to be of good courage. It is more than likely
that you alarm yourself without cause."

She continued to stare at me in her amazement and the confusion that was congenital with it,
and if there was not time for her to withdraw, at least the possibility I had suggested acted
as a timely warning.

In that moment the door opened again, and on the threshold appeared a young man in a plumed
hat and corselet, carrying a naked sword in one hand and a lanthorn in the other. Behind him
I caught the gleam of steel from the troopers at his heels.

"Which of you is Monsieur Rene de Lesperon?" he inquired politely, his utterance flavoured
by a strong Gascon accent.

I stood forward. "I am known by that name, Monsieur le Capitaine," said I.

He looked at me wistfully, apologetically almost, then "In the King's name, Monsieur de Lesperon,
I call upon you to yield!" said he.

"I have been expecting you. My sword is yonder, monsieur," I replied suavely. "If you will
allow me to dress, I shall be ready to accompany you in a few minutes."

He bowed, and it at once became clear that his business at Lavedan was--as I had suggested
to the Vicomtesse might be possible--with me alone.

"I am grateful for the readiness of your submission," said this very polite gentleman. He was
a comely lad, with blue eyes and a good-humoured mouth, to which a pair of bristling moustaches
sought vainly to impart an expression of ferocity.

"Before you proceed to dress, monsieur, I have another duty to discharge."

"Discharge your duty, monsieur," I answered. Whereupon he made a sign to his men, and in a
moment they were ransacking my garments and effects. While this was taking place, he turned
to the Vicomte and Vicomtesse, and offered them a thousand apologies for having interrupted
their slumbers, and for so rudely depriving them of their guest. He advanced in his excuse
the troublous nature of the times, and threw in a bunch of malisons at the circumstances which
forced upon soldiers the odious duties of the tipstaff, hoping that we would think him none
the less a gentleman for the unsavoury business upon which he was engaged.

From my clothes they took the letters addressed to Lesperon which that poor gentleman had entrusted
to me on the night of his death; and among these there was one from the Duc d'Orleans himself,
which would alone have sufficed to have hanged a regiment. Besides these, they took Monsieur
de Marsac's letter of two days ago, and the locket containing the picture of Mademoiselle de
Marsac.

The papers and the portrait they delivered to the Captain, who took them with the same air
of deprecation tainted with disgust that coloured all his actions in connection with my arrest.

To this same repugnance for his catchpoll work do I owe it that at the moment of setting out
he offered to let me ride without the annoyance of an escort if I would pass him my parole
not to attempt an escape.

We were standing, then, in the hall of the chateau. His men were already in the courtyard,
and there were only present Monsieur le Vicomte and Anatole--the latter reflecting the look
of sorrow that haunted his master's face. The Captain's generosity was certainly leading him
beyond the bounds of his authority, and it touched me.

"Monsieur is very generous," said I.

He shrugged his shoulders impatiently.

"Cap de Dieu!" he cried--he had a way of swearing that reminded me of my friend Cazalet. "It
is no generosity, monsieur. It is a desire to make this obscene work more congenial to the
spirit of a gentleman, which, devil take me, I cannot stifle, not for the King himself. And
then, Monsieur de Lesperon, are we not fellow-countrymen? Are we not Gascons both? Pardieu,
there is no more respected a name in the whole of Gascony than that of Lesperon, and that you
belong to so honourable a family is alone more than sufficient to warrant such slight favours
as it may be in my power to show you."

"You have my parole that I will attempt no escape, Monsieur le Capitaine," I answered, bowing
may acknowledgment of his compliments.

"I am Mironsac de Castelroux, of Chateau Rouge in Gascony," he informed me, returning my bow.
My faith, had he not made a pretty soldier he would have made an admirable master of deportment.

My leave-taking of Monsieur de Lavedan was brief but cordial; apologetic on my part, intensely
sympathetic on his. And so I went out alone with Castelroux upon the road to Toulouse, his
men being ordered to follow in half an hour's time and to travel at their leisure.

As we cantered along--Castelroux and I--we talked of many things, and I found him an amusing
and agreeable companion. Had my mood been other than despairing, the news he gave me might
have occasioned me some concern; for it seemed that prisoners arraigned for treason and participation
in the late rising were being very summarily treated. Many were never so much as heard in their
own defence, the evidence collected of their defection being submitted to the Tribunal, and
judgment being forthwith passed upon them by judges who had no ears for anything they might
advance in their own favour.

The evidence of my identity was complete: there was my own admission to Castelroux; the evidence
of the treason of Lesperon was none the less complete; in fact, it was notorious; and there
was the Duke's letter found amongst my effects. If the judges refused to lend an ear to my
assurances that I was not Lesperon at all, but the missing Bardelys, my troubles were likely
to receive a very summary solution. The fear of it, however, weighed not over-heavily upon
me. I was supremely indifferent. Life was at an end so far as I was concerned. I had ruined
the one chance of real happiness that had ever been held out to me, and if the gentlemen of
the courts of Toulouse were pleased to send me unheeded to the scaffold, what should it signify?

But there was another matter that did interest me, and that was my interview with Marsac. Touching
this, I spoke to my captor.

"There is a gentleman I wish to see at Grenade this morning. You have amongst the papers taken
from me a letter making this assignation, Monsieur le Capitaine, and I should be indeed grateful
if you would determine that we shall break our fast there, so that I may have an opportunity
of seeing him. The matter is to me of the highest importance."

"It concerns--?" he asked.

"A lady," I answered.

"Ah, yes! But the letter is of the nature of a challenge, is it not? Naturally, I cannot permit
you to endanger your life."

"Lest we disappoint the headsman at Toulouse?" I laughed. "Have no fear. There shall be no duel!"

"Then I am content, monsieur, and you shall see your friend."

I thanked him, and we talked of other things thereafter as we rode in the early morning along
the Toulouse road. Our conversation found its way, I scarce know how, to the topic of Paris
and the Court, and when I casually mentioned, in passing, that I was well acquainted with the
Luxembourg, he inquired whether I had ever chanced to meet a young spark of the name of Mironsac.

"Mironsac?" I echoed. "Why, yes." And I was on the point of adding that I knew the youth intimately,
and what a kindness I had for him, when, deeming it imprudent, I contented myself with asking,
"You know him?"

"Pardieu!" he swore. "The fellow is my cousin. We are both Mironsacs; he is Mironsac of Castelvert,
whilst I, as you may remember I told you, am Mironsac of Castelroux. To distinguish us, he
is always known as Mironsac, and I as Castelroux. Peste! It is not the only distinction, for
while he basks in the sunshine of the great world of Paris--they are wealthy, the Mironsacs
of Castelvert--I, a poor devil of a Gascony cadet, am playing the catchpoll in Languedoc!"

I looked at him with fresh interest, for the mention of that dear lad Mironsac brought back
to my mind the night in Paris on which my ill-starred wager had been laid, and I was reminded
of how that high-minded youth had sought--when it was too late to reason me out of the undertaking
by alluding to the dishonour with which in his honest eyes it must be fraught.

We spoke of his cousin--Castelroux and I--and I went so far now as to confess that I had some
love for the youth, whom I praised in unmistakable terms. This inclined to increase the friendliness
which my young Captain had manifested since my arrest, and I was presently emboldened by it
to beg of him to add to the many favours that I already owed him by returning to me the portrait
which his men had subtracted from my pocket. It was my wish to return this to Marsac, whilst
at the same time it would afford corroboration of my story.

To this Castelroux made no difficulty.

"Why, yes," said he, and he produced it. "I crave your pardon for not having done the thing
of my own accord. What can the Keeper of the Seals want with that picture?"

I thanked him, and pocketed the locket.

"Poor lady!" he sighed, a note of compassion in his voice. "By my soul, Monsieur de Lesperon,
fine work this for soldiers, is it not? Diable! It is enough to turn a gentleman's stomach
sour for life, and make him go hide himself from the eyes of honest men. Had I known that soldiering
meant such business, I had thought twice before I adopted it as a career for a man of honour.
I had remained in Gascony and tilled the earth sooner than have lent myself to this!"

"My good young friend," I laughed, "what you do, you do in the King's name."

"So does every tipstaff," he answered impatiently, his moustaches bristling as the result of
the scornful twist he gave his lips. "To think that I should have a hand in bringing tears
to the eyes of that sweet lady! Quelle besogne! Bon Dieu, quelle besogne!"

I laughed at the distress vented in that whimsical Gascon tongue of his, whereupon he eyed
me in a wonder that was tempered with admiration. For to his brave soul a gentleman so stoical
as to laugh under such parlous circumstances was very properly a gentleman to be admired.

CHAPTER X. THE RISEN DEAD

It was close upon ten o'clock as we rode into the yard of the imposing Hotel de la Couronne
at Grenade.

Castelroux engaged a private room on the first floor--a handsome chamber overlooking the courtyard--and
in answer to the inquiries that I made I was informed by the landlord that Monsieur de Marsac
was not yet arrived.

"My assignation was 'before noon,' Monsieur de Castelroux," said I. "With your permission,
I would wait until noon."

He made no difficulty. Two hours were of no account. We had all risen very early, and he was,
himself, he said, entitled to some rest.

Whilst I stood by the window it came to pass than a very tall, indifferently apparelled gentleman
issued from the hostelry and halted for some moments in conversation with the ostler below.
He walked with an enfeebled step, and leaned heavily for support upon a stout cane. As he turned
to reenter the inn I had a glimpse of a face woefully pale, about which, as about the man's
whole figure, there was a something that was familiar--a something that puzzled me, and on
which my mind was still dwelling when presently I sat down to breakfast with Castelroux.

It may have been a half-hour later, and, our meal being at an end, we were sitting talking--I
growing impatient the while that this Monsieur de Marsac should keep me waiting so--when of
a sudden the rattle of hoofs drew me once more to the window. A gentleman, riding very recklessly,
had just dashed through the porte-cochere, and was in the act of pulling up his horse. He was
a lean, active man, very richly dressed, and with a face that by its swarthiness of skin and
the sable hue of beard and hair looked almost black.

"Ah, you are there!" he cried, with something between a snarl and a laugh, and addressing somebody
within the shelter of the porch. "Par la mort Dieu, I had hardly looked to find you!"

From the recess of the doorway I heard a gasp of amazement and a cry of "Marsac! You here?"

So this was the gentleman I was to see! A stable boy had taken his reins, and he leapt nimbly
to the ground. Into my range of vision hobbled now the enfeebled gentleman whom earlier I had
noticed.

"My dear Stanislas!" he cried, "I cannot tell you how rejoiced I am to see you!" and he approached
Marsac with arms that were opened as if to embrace him.

The newcomer surveyed him a moment in wonder, with eyes grown dull. Then abruptly raising his
hand, he struck the fellow on the breast, and thrust him back so violently that but for the
stable-boy's intervention he had of a certainty fallen. With a look of startled amazement on
his haggard face, the invalid regarded his assailant.

As for Marsac, he stepped close up to him.

"What is this?" he cried harshly. "What is this make-believe feebleness? That you are pale,
poltroon, I do not wonder! But why these tottering limbs? Why this assumption of weakness?
Do you look to trick me by these signs?"

"Have you taken leave of your senses?" exclaimed the other, a note of responsive anger sounding
in his voice. "Have you gone mad, Stanislas?"

"Abandon this pretence," was the contemptuous answer. "Two days ago at Lavedan, my friend,
they informed me how complete was your recovery; from what they told us, it was easy to guess
why you tarried there and left us without news of you. That was my reason, as you may have
surmised, for writing to you. My sister has mourned you for dead--was mourning you for dead
whilst you sat at the feet of your Roxalanne and made love to her among the roses of Lavedan."

"Lavedan?" echoed the other slowly. Then, raising his voice, "what the devil are you saying?"
he blazed. "What do I know of Lavedan?"

In a flash it had come to me who that enfeebled gentleman was. Rodenard, the blunderer, had
been at fault when he had said that Lesperon had expired. Clearly he could have no more than
swooned; for here, in the flesh, was Lesperon himself, the man I had left for dead in that
barn by Mirepoix.

How or where he had recovered were things that at the moment did not exercise my mind--nor
have I since been at any pains to unravel the mystery of it; but there he was, and for the
moment that fact was all-sufficing. What complications would come of his presence Heaven alone
could foretell.

"Put an end to this play-acting!" roared the savage Marsac. "It will avail you nothing. My
sister's tears may have weighed lightly with you, but you shall pay the price of them, and
of the slight you have put upon her."

"My God, Marsac!" cried the other, roused to an equal fierceness. "Will you explain?"

"Aye," snarled Marsac, and his sword flashed from his scabbard, "I'll explain. As God lives,
I'll explain--with this!" And he whirled his blade under the eyes of the invalid. "Come, my
master, the comedy's played out. Cast aside that crutch and draw; draw, man, or, sangdieu,
I'll run you through as you stand!"

There was a commotion below. The landlord and a posse of his satellites--waiters, ostlers,
and stableboys--rushed between them, and sought to restrain the bloodthirsty Marsac. But he
shook them off as a bull shakes off a pack of dogs, and like an angry bull, too, did he stand
his ground and bellow. In a moment his sweeping sword had cleared a circle about him. In its
lightning dartings hither and thither at random, it had stung a waiter in the calf, and when
the fellow saw the blood staining his hose, he added to the general din his shrieks that he
was murdered. Marsac swore and threatened in a breath, and a kitchen wench, from a point of
vantage on the steps, called shame upon him and abused him roundly for a cowardly assassin
to assail a poor sufferer who could hardly stand upright.

"Po' Cap de Dieu!" swore Castelroux at my elbow. "Saw you ever such an ado? What has chanced?"

But I never stayed to answer him. Unless I acted quickly blood would assuredly be shed. I was
the one man who could explain matters, and it was a mercy for Lesperon that I should have been
at hand in the hour of his meeting that fire-eater Marsac. I forgot the circumstances in which
I stood to Castelroux; I forgot everything but the imminent necessity that I should intervene.
Some seven feet below our window was the roof of the porch; from that to the ground it might
be some eight feet more. Before my Gascon captain knew what I was about, I had swung myself
down from the window on to the projecting porch. A second later, I created a diversion by landing
in the midst of the courtyard fray, with the alarmed Castelroux--who imagined that I was escaping--following
by the same unusual road, and shouting as he came "Monsieur de Lesperon! Hi! Monsieur de Lesperon!
Mordieu! Remember your parole, Monsieur de Lesperon!"

Nothing could have been better calculated to stem Marsac's fury; nothing could have so predisposed
him to lend an ear to what I had to say, for it was very evident that Castelroux's words were
addressed to me, and that it was I whom he called by the name of Lesperon. In an instant I
was at Marsac's side. But before I could utter a word, "What the devil does this mean?" he
asked, eyeing me with fierce suspicion.

"It means, monsieur, that there are more Lesperons than one in France. I am the Lesperon who
was at Lavedan. If you doubt me, ask this gentleman, who arrested me there last night. Ask
him, too, why we have halted here. Ask him, if you will, to show you the letter that you left
at Lavedan making an assignation here before noon to-day, which letter I received."

The suspicion faded from Marsac's eyes, and they grew round with wonder as he listened to this
prodigious array of evidence. Lesperon looked on in no less amazement, yet I am sure from the
manner of his glance that he did not recognize in me the man that had succoured him at Mirepoix.
That, after all, was natural enough; for the minds of men in such reduced conditions as had
been his upon that night are not prone to receive very clear impressions, and still less prone
to retain such impressions as they do receive.

Before Marsac could answer me, Castelroux was at my side.

"A thousand apologies!" he laughed. "A fool might have guessed the errand that took you so
quickly through that window, and none but a fool would have suspected you of seeking to escape.
It was unworthy in me, Monsieur de Lesperon."

I turned to him while those others still stood gaping, and led him aside.

"Monsieur le Capitaine," said I, "you find it troublesome enough to reconcile your conscience
with such arrests as you are charged to make, is it not so.

"Mordieu!" he cried, by way of emphatically assenting.

"Now, if you should chance to overhear words betraying to you certain people whom otherwise
you would never suspect of being rebels, your soldier's duty would, nevertheless, compel you
to apprehend them, would it not?"

"Why, true. I am afraid it would," he answered, with a grimace.

"But, if forewarned that by being present in a certain place you should overhear such words,
what course would you pursue?"

"Avoid it like a pestilence, monsieur," he answered promptly.

"Then, Monsieur le Capitaine, may I trespass upon your generosity to beseech you to let me
take these litigants to our room upstairs, and to leave us alone there for a half-hour?"

Frankness was my best friend in dealing with Castelroux--frankness and his distaste for the
business they had charged him with. As for Marsac and Lesperon, they were both eager enough
to have the mystery explained, and when Castelroux having consented--I invited them to my chamber,
they came readily enough.

Since Monsieur de Lesperon did not recognize me, there was no reason why I should enlighten
him touching my identity, and every reason why I should not. As soon as they were seated, I
went to the heart of the matter at once and without preamble.

"A fortnight ago, gentlemen," said I, "I was driven by a pack of dragoons across the Garonne.
I was wounded in the shoulder and very exhausted, and I knocked at the gates of Lavedan to
crave shelter. That shelter, gentlemen, was afforded me, and when I had announced myself as
Monsieur de Lesperon, it was all the more cordially because one Monsieur de Marsac, who was
a friend of the Vicomte de Lavedan, and a partisan in the lost cause of Orleans, happened often
to have spoken of a certain Monsieur de Lesperon as his very dear friend. I have no doubt,
gentlemen, that you will think harshly of me because I did not enlighten the Vicomte. But there
were reasons for which I trust you will not press me, since I shall find it difficult to answer
you with truth."

"But is your name Lesperon?" cried Lesperon.

"That, monsieur, is a small matter. Whether my name is Lesperon or not, I confess to having
practised a duplicity upon the Vicomte and his family, since I am certainly not the Lesperon
whose identity I accepted. But if I accepted that identity, monsieur, I also accepted your
liabilities, and so I think that you should find it in your heart to extend me some measure
of forgiveness. As Rene de Lesperon, of Lesperon in Gascony, I was arrested last night at Lavedan,
and, as you may observe, I am being taken to Toulouse to stand the charge of high treason.
I have not demurred; I have not denied in the hour of trouble the identity that served me in
my hour of need. I am taking the bitter with the sweet, and I assure you, gentlemen, that the
bitter predominates in a very marked degree."

"But this must not be," cried Lesperon, rising. "I know not what use you may have made of my
name, but I have no reason to think that you can have brought discredit upon it, and so--"

"I thank you, monsieur, but--"

"And so I cannot submit that you shall go to Toulouse in my stead. Where is this officer whose
prisoner you are? Pray summon him, monsieur, and let us set the matter right."

"This is very generous," I answered calmly. "But I have crimes enough upon my head, and so,
if the worst should befall me, I am simply atoning in one person for the errors of two." This will, in time, to be able to play a real
place two thousand clerks in some, as my lord grandfather, rest in peace. I wish to make fortune,
because I love him with all my heart; and so, I want your worship, with his great wisdom and
universal wisdom, I report if it is possible get something out of this guy, saying at the same time
if I can count on your protection. Make it your grace, by God, which is the only son of his
sister, and we we are poor, we can not make you happy. "

His respectful and reverent server.

# # FERMIN ...

After three months without Don Elijah answered. Finally said, noting that he expected a bit,
which warn if he could come or not.

A month later he wrote again calling Lazarus at his side, adding that their behavior and provisions
to make fortune depended.

Lazarus was beside himself with joy. Wanted from the day, but the prayers of his mother and his
grandfather was forced to wait two more.

The young student knew from the traditions of the family that his
uncle was a very wise man, and had been craving that had to be a great
liberal.

Did not understand that a very wise man ceases to be a great lover of freedom.

Coletilla's letter was received in early September 1821, in which they occur the first events
we have referred. Shortly after the unfortunate scene barbershop and military input in the house
of Clara, Lazarus took the trip to Madrid.

Clara did not know before the day he was to come.

Now we can follow naturally the course of events in this timely story. Let Lazarus preparing
to depart. His mother and his grandfather crying fired, the mayor embraces saying that he sees
in it nothing less than a secretary of the Office, the priest gives
you two rolls maimones for the road and throws a tedious sermon.

The student goes to the galley, and money takes more wishful thinking than the way of the Court.

CHAPTER
VIII

# # Today comes.

Three days after the adventure described in Chapter Two, was clear very early locked in the
room that served as his bedroom. The fan had said a few hours rather than wait for his nephew, and
that it was necessary to accommodate there until they moved all to a new house that planned to
take.

Clara was rapt to hear this news and could not answer word, because the surprise the voice was upon
him. When left alone locked himself in his room.

This was small and irregular, was at the interior of the house, and
had a narrow window, with glasses of dubious transparency, which opened
onto a courtyard, the kind that so deep and narrow look real well.

Front and sides opened three rows of windows petty vents many other cells, where they lived
busy families. The room Clara had the usufruct of a light beam from eleven at eleven-thirty, when
he passed to illuminate the tropical regions of the third floor. One ray of light never brought
no color or landscape, or horizon, no joy.

The courtyard was crowded room, the center of a human hive.

At certain times protruded for those holes so many heads: this happened in the big events
when the blacksmith on the ground floor and the room ironing resolved
an issue outdoors of honor, or when the manola the third and the front
darning bring suit on ownership of the washing.

Furthermore, always reigned there Octavian peace, and it was something to see the friendly frankness
with the esterero I borrowed a pan to the left neighbor and intimate confidence that they
talked in the fifth soldier and the cobbler's wife. Entwined around windows with others, by way
of telegraph circuits, several strings of which hung a few squandered shirts, and from time
to time as is slice of beef, over which descended into silence of the night a cane with a hook,
run by the capable hands of the student's garret.

The window of the room never opened Clara. Elijah had stuck inside from who occupied the house.

If
the outlook was bleak patio, inside the room was undoubtedly certain
charm, not because he had beautiful things, but for simplicity and
modesty reigned there, and the careful cleaning and care, unique elegance
of the poor.

Could be seen, first term, a comfortable voluminous, consisting of six large drawers with carvings
next to the locks, and some slightly corroded scale, over decorative furniture quite old, representing
a Grim Reaper figure with one hand raised in attitude to hold something,
but instead of the clock that once loaded, holding time Clara a box
lined with colored paper, which was to save women's work utensils.

Instead of the glass vial, this hid a piece of gauze and tied with blue ribbons to the legs of
the goddess, which he held in his chest lay a scapular of the Virgin del Carmen.

A dressing table, three chairs, old walnut tree, heavy and shiny, a bristling fit pads needles
and pins, sidewalk and mahogany bed very voluminous architecture,
covered with Palencia blanket, completed the outfit.

Clara was in front of her mirror, and was busy becoming entangled in a thick braid crown black
hair, newly woven and finished in the lead with a bundle of the hair and a red ribbon. Two rows of
small curls, locks subtle, twisted with negligence, I decorated the
front, and white temples, as the line slightly transparent skin blue
of a vein, fell two graceful tufts.

There are no more proper attitude to properly assess academic forms of a woman who that it
takes when it reaches out and wraps a braid on her head, exposing her breast, the waist, neck
in all its fullness. Tiéndense chest muscles, it outlines the back, and the angle of the elbow
and shoulder soft curves described in its expansion funny smooth lines that give expression
to the whole figure sculpture.

After the combing operation, Clara cast a look of desire and distrust to the last the huge comfortable
drawer where he had his clothes. It was there, kept with singular care, a suit that Elijah had
bought some years ago when it was less grim and grumpy. This suit, which was the most luxurious
and beautiful that the orphan had, had the shape and most fashionable colors at that time: a black
velvet body with neat drawings trimmings and straw-guard silk, adorned
with a big band, as to third, from black lace.

He doubted whether out or not: I wanted to wear it, and afraid to
put it, wanted to wear that day her best dress, and feared at the
same time be too cute with it.

Why? And pensive and sad stopped, not daring to bring to public light so long that treasure hidden.
Why? Because Elijah had become so irksome (so she said), was so both manic and scolded her for no
reason ... What uniqueness!

The previous week was sewing and fixing the border of the dress that
was broken when the man came, and suddenly said

- What are you doing
...?

Always thinking componerte. Why should you participate in such trifles?

She, truth be told, but had a reasonable answer to give to that question,
dared not, and sadly folding his work, he went to bury her in the
chest.

Elijah softened for this proof of submission, and more bitter and
harsh tone he said to see her pull the drawer:

- When you say you've
ruined ....

But this was not the worst thing you heard the little
girl while in shame, returned to plunder the tomb that he had wanted
to desecrate taking it out of this venerable asylum.

It was not this is the worst thing he heard, because the old man, lowering his voice as if talking
to himself, said:

- At last I have to make a determination with you.

Jesus, saints in heaven! What determination is that! ... If you also want the old to enclose it
in the same drawer as a pledge never worn! ...

The determination that had worried many days. He tried in vain to fathom the mind the old. Ay! But
if she did not know anyone minds poll ... The only way that would was worth to find out just
ask, and he does not dare.

There was more. For the sad street Good God used to spend a flower girl, who in your basket had
some bunches of carnations, two dozen roses and many, many violets. Clara watched through the glass
to the passage of those cool colors that attracted the soul, those
who longed sucking sweet scents from the balcony.

One day he decided to buy flowers, and Pascuala commanded by them. Clara took them, kissed
a thousand times, I put water the stroked, put them in the breast, head and could not help but
look in the mirror that dress, put them back in the water, and finally,
the left still on a vase, who had the impudence to place where Coletilla
put his stick and hat when he arrived the street.

Oh! No doubt he, on entering, was to put happy seeing the flowers.
Flowers I would like very much.

What would surprise! ... This she thought. Definitely was a fool.

The fan came and approached the table, but to put his hat on it, hit
it with the glass, which fell to the ground, dropping flowers and
pouring water on the same legs realistic.

The man was furious, and looked with fury to the orphan, she was trembling,
he shouted:

- What flowers are these?

Who sent you buy these flowers? Clara, what delusions are these? Flirt! There is no remedy.
You've spoiled. Do you also want to fill with flowers the house?

Clara wanted to answer, but even did his best, did not answer. Elijah trampled flowers with fury.

-
I am determined to make the determination.

Again the determination, that determination would be what? Clara thought at the height of confusion
and fear. Then retreat to her room, thought the same, and said to himself: "Will you kill me?"

Could
not sleep that night. At about noon that Elijah felt walking in his room with more turmoil than
usual. So I thought I heard some words that should not be anything good. Clara got up very
quietly moved by curiosity, and little by little came very cautiously to the door to the room
of Elijah, and looked through the keyhole. Elias gestured marching: suddenly stopped, he approached
a drawer and pulled out a knife very big, very big and very sharp, bright and fine. I was
looking at the light, examining it, then him again to save. Clara, seeing this, was to faint.
He retired to his room and went to bed shaking, wrapping up well. Since the night he spent
in the garret of Dona Anxieties in the company of mice, had no fear
alike.

At dawn he fell asleep a bit, but in his dream he had many knives
as he had seen, and sometimes just one, but so great, that would be
sufficient by itself to curtail fifty heads at once.

Arropábase more at every moment, believing in the errors of the dream that the knife, notwithstanding
of a sharp-edged and brilliant, could not penetrate the sheets.

The next day he calmed down, and then laughed that Elijah may have been feared killed.

Pore, however, did not dare to wear the suit. Beautiful garment that was sinful of sleep the sleep
of eternity in the depths of the dresser, where serious food for worms.

Clara could not determine in their understanding what she could be of coming of Lazarus. In
his great joy he saw in that more than a happy event, not stopping to consider the events that
subsequently could be derived from that destination. Some vague ideas that feeling accompanied
only expansive and disinterested. He would a young man of position. Why not? No reason in the
middle, Clara thought a change of luck. Somehow, were united in their understanding and confusion
inseparable the idea of ​​arrival Lazarus and the idea of ​​emancipating a bit of nagging
(not otherwise qualified) tutelage of Don Elias. Into his mind came the idea of ​​marriage.
Wine, yes, several times, but almost idea was not that: it was a
confused perception, as a shy and wary hope.

For Finally, and came to think, to really think about this. A confused perception, we said, themselves,
this perception is constantly occupied. Lazarus was going to be her
husband.

Clara also knew see the future days, and saw her husband beside her
in a place that was not in a house that was not it, elsewhere, in
another land.

And in another world, why not? This have been the most successful ...

That day was very cheerful, laughed at the slightest cause, no reason was blushing, he was restless
and restless, thoughtful stayed a long while, and then seemed to talk herself.

Pascuala nine o'clock when he returned from the street and entered
the room of Clara.

Pascuala was a woman who was at his side the most violent contrast
that can exist between two copies of the human family.

It was a vigorous and manly girl, grazed in the fields Alcarrian, high chest, wide hips, red
cheeks, large mouth, nose girl, face narrow, hair pulled back in a big bow, brightly colored,
heavy hands, large black eyes.

He approached the young and mysteriously said:

- Do you know what
I have wrong?

- What? - Ciara said alarmed.

- I've seen the melitarito
the other day, which was here when the Lord came bad.

- So what?

-
What?

Nothing but asustao me because I said I wanted to go, and as we are alone I thought something
would happen to me ... because as well as a nice weekend .... And not a bad face .... You see.

- Ah!

Did the officer that the other day?

... You say you wanted to put here?

- Yes, and then I asked for you.

- Why me? What did you say?

- That was Guen. Then he said that if he was here the old man. You see how little respect. The
old! What disrespect!

I told him no. He told me he wanted to get to talk to me ... But
we ... I'm too sly, and I maliciously ....

- What?

- I do not cheat
so with little words.

How is such a nice weekend ....

- Do not worry - Clara laughing .-- It is said he loves you and wants
to marry you.

If you know the bartender ....

- My Pascual?

I do not know ... If you get to know my Pascual is a gentleman who says chicoleos Pascuala to
....

We note that this mop was to groom a Pascual who had founded no less than a Street tavern Shrine.
Those relationships seemed very honest and noble efforts marriage,
and as she was so very nice weekend, that he would likely pair Easter
is joined to the Church to give children the world and water to wine.

-
For as Easter gets to know ....

- But I'm very naughty ... and has
put me in the head ... Do you know what I have been on his head?

-
What?

- That he does not want to come here by me but by you.

- Why
me?

Do not be silly - said Clara, laughing in the most natural.

- Would you let them in?

- No, look out.

By God, do not do that.

Do not come back to talk more.

What has to come here this gentleman?

- I maliciously ... although
one is so very nice weekend .... Malice I do not want me to me pa
God damn thing ... because in the end, always a servant and he is
a gentleman .... Well seems very prominent person.

Say ... Would you let them in?

- Jesus, Pascuala, not to say it again! - Seriously cried Clara .-- But what you get this gentleman
here?

- Here, to see you.

- And why you see me?

- Here, to view it.

- What an idea! - Murmured thoughtfully.

In this he felt a bell. Coletilla opened and entered.

The two girls continued their conversation on the street when they heard the sound of excited
voices, some screaming and hurried footsteps.

Asomáronse the three, and saw that ran several groups down the street. The most famous neighborhood
sparklers left their irons and went in search of adventures.

Glanced tagline of rancorous contempt for pedestrians, and closing heavily to the balcony,
he said;

- Another coup!

The two girls shook remembering the fear that they had a few nights earlier.

- Oh, when will these things! - Observed Clara.

- Pronto! - Said
the old man dryly, sitting up and taking a letter on the table.

Read it, then took his coat and hat, and said to the girls:

- I'm going to go out, I have to do: not come back all afternoon. My nephew arrive tonight
to about eight, I will not come until ten at the earliest. I wait here.

And wrapped in his cloak, he looked a sad watch, compass had sad life the headwall of the room.

-
Do not open any one: careful, careful with the door. Throw all the locks. When you come my nephew,
give him something to eat and I wait.

- But how you going to go out with these riots? - Clara said with fear you .-- Do not leave us
alone: ​​we have much fear.

- To me what I have to do to me?

Woe to them! - Murmured furor drowned .-- Beware I repeat the door.

And then, as if to himself, said softly:

- Yes, it is necessary to make a determination ... good determination.

Clara could hear him, and thought of the comfortable in the dress, the flowers, the knife and
the determination, that determination damn did not know.

But even so, that was downcast and melancholy for a while, it was not enough to take away the happiness
that days overflowed in his soul.

CHAPTER IX

# # The first steps.

Street groups grow. The people all had this strange and messy is not uproar, but what precedes
it.

It was the September 18, 1821.

Most the inhabitants of Madrid were on the street. The anxious what's up? out of all mouths. On such occasions
enough to stand two to go then adhering other to form a thick group. Then all who see us look
bad sides.

The most curious incident in those days is offered by the arrival
of the person who is supposed aware of what is going to be.

Rodéanle: the request is made aware, begins to speak symbolic language to raise curiosity, base
feel that without the deepest discretion and the promise of secrecy
can not say what he knows.

All you swear by the most sacred to keep the secret, and, finally, begins to tell the thing very
dark; excited by the listeners, it was decided to be clear, and they
fit three or four balls of temptation stiff, the others are swallowed
eagerly, then disbanded to go throw up in other groups: are indigestible
as this kind of secrets.

The evening to which we refer was true what happened to our friend Calleja, aware Fontana officer,
had one of the groups formed in the Carrera.

- Why, do not you know? - Said, lowering his voice and making a gesture worthy of the only Spartan,
escaped at Thermopylae, brought to Athens the news of this catastrophe memorable .-- Do not you
know? There is no more but that tomorrow will be a civic procession in honor Irrigation, whose
portrait will be paraded through the streets of the Court.

- Well, well - one of the listeners said .-- Were we to allow it to be mistreated the hero of
Cabezas, founder of the liberties of Spain?

- So how bad is that the Government is determined that no procession. But it is actually decided.
La Fontana has been resolved and will: the portrait is ready. And indeed there is a nice work,
is represented in uniform, and the book of the Constitution in hand. Great portrait! As it
did my cousin, who painted the coffee sample Vicentini.

- And the Government prohibits the party?

- Yes: does not like these things. But there are no Spanish or procession. The Government forbids
it.

Indeed, at that time received a plaster corners official in the camp that read prohibiting the
feast prepared by the clubs for the next day. The troops were on weapons.

- And tonight we have a great session in Fontana.

- Look, Perico, save me a good place tonight - said a young man who was part of the group; - save
me a job, I have to go tonight to the hostel early to receive a Hole
friends from Zaragoza.

And then he added mysteriously, turning to
two or three that seemed to his friends:

- Good guys these kids in
Zaragoza, that I have spoken. Arrive tonight. Are the Republican club
there. Good guys.

The group broke up, at the same time, the sinister
figure of Tres Pesetas crossed the street, attached to the equally
unpleasant to vest.

Left three young group of those who spoke earlier.
There were three young men as twenty-five years. We can not call them
dandies net but could not be said them lacked any distinction and
elegance. They were close friends who shared his hardships and joys,
the hardships of poverty and student loa pleasures of popular aura,
conquered with newspaper articles and speeches in the club.

One was
a young man of distinguished family, second son, whom he had sent
to study Canons and sacred theology at Salamanca, in order to become
a priest and enjoy a fat chaplains who had belonged to an uncle, cantor
of the cathedral of Calahorra. Chaplain you see my eyes, how to have
a bishop in his fist. Indeed: Javier, that was his name The boy had
been a bishop, because his family had great influence. But the boy,
habits did not love and was impressed by new ideas, he made his bundle,
and lacking of money, but not daring, set off, and stood in the same
blessed Madrid year 1820. Wandered the streets alone, but soon had
many friends, wrote to his grandmother, half gave him forgiveness
and some rooms (few, for the family, although the most Leonese noble
land, was in a very precarious situation) then went to Zaragoza, where
he lived for several months, appearing a lot in the democratic clubs,
and later returned to the Court, not very well eaten or drunk, but
happy too much. Writing in El Universal furious articles, and content
with his bit of glory, life was passing, poor but well cyst. Captivates
everyone for the kindness of his character and generous feelings.
In politics professed very radical views, and belonged to the fraction
then called exalted.

At the same militant the second of these three
friends are describing, which was Andalusian of twenty-three years
old, slim, small and flexible. In Ecija, his homeland, he spent his
time writing verbs to Marica, Ramona, at Paca, to the fountain, to
the moon and to all. But all reason, and poetry to dry is more entertaining
than: one day he found boring and thought out of town. Passed by the
army at the time of Irrigation, and the troops excited his curiosity.

Asked,
they said they were the soldiers of freedom, and it rang in his ears
with some nice harmony. "I'm going with them," he said to his parents.
These were very poor, and answered: "Son, go with God, and He makes
you happy and good, behave yourself, and do not forget us."

The poet
followed the army crying his parents, yet it is known that he secretly
mourned three of the prettiest girls Ecija. Some little ray of consolation I culled, perhaps, from
my thoughts of Roxalanne. Out of the gloom of my cell my fancy fashioned her sweet girl face
and stamped it with a look of gentle pity, of infinite sorrow for me and for the hand she had
had in bringing me to this.

That she loved me I was assured, and I swore that if I lived I would win her yet, in spite
of every obstacle that I myself had raised for my undoing.

CHAPTER XII. THE TRIBUNAL OF TOULOUSE

I had hoped to lie some days in prison before being brought to trial, and that during those
days Castelroux might have succeeded in discovering those who could witness to my identity.
Conceive, therefore, something of my dismay when on the morrow I was summoned an hour before
noon to go present myself to my judges.

From the prison to the Palace I was taken in chains like any thief--for the law demanded this
indignity to be borne by one charged with the crimes they imputed to me. The distance was but
short, yet I found it over-long, which is not wonderful considering that the people stopped
to line up as I went by and to cast upon me a shower of opprobrious derision--for Toulouse
was a very faithful and loyal city. It was within some two hundred yards of the Palace steps
that I suddenly beheld a face in the crowd, at the sight of which I stood still in my amazement.
This earned me a stab in the back from the butt-end of the pike of one of my guards.

"What ails you now?" quoth the man irritably. "Forward, Monsieur le traite!"

I moved on, scarce remarking the fellow's roughness; my eyes were still upon that face--the
white, piteous face of Roxalanne. I smiled reassurance and encouragement, but even as I smiled
the horror in her countenance seemed to increase. Then, as I passed on, she vanished from my
sight, and I was left to conjecture the motives that had occasioned her return to Toulouse.
Had the message that Marsac would yesterday have conveyed to her caused her to retrace her
steps that she might be near me in my extremity; or had some weightier reason influenced her
return? Did she hope to undo some of the evil she had done? Alas, poor child! If such were
her hopes, I sorely feared me they would prove very idle.

Of my trial I should say but little did not the exigencies of my story render it necessary
to say much. Even now, across the gap of years, my gorge rises at the mockery which, in the
King's name, those gentlemen made of justice. I can allow for the troubled conditions of the
times, and I can realize how in cases of civil disturbances and rebellion it may be expedient
to deal summarily with traitors, yet not all the allowances that I can think of would suffice
to condone the methods of that tribunal.

The trial was conducted in private by the Keeper of the Seals--a lean, wizened individual,
with an air as musty and dry as that of the parchments among which he had spent his days. He
was supported by six judges, and on his right sat the King's Commissioner, Monsieur de Chatellerault--the
bruised condition of whose countenance still advertised the fact that we had met but yesterday.

Upon being asked my name and place of abode, I created some commotion by answering boldly "I
am the Sieur Marcel de Saint-Pol, Marquis of Bardelys, of Bardelys in Picardy."

The President--that is to say, the Keeper of the Seals--turned inquiringly to Chatellerault.
The Count, however, did no more than smile and point to something written on a paper that lay
spread upon the table. The President nodded.

"Monsieur Rene de Lesperon," said he, "the Court may perhaps not be able to discriminate whether
this statement of yours is a deliberate attempt to misguide or frustrate the ends of justice,
or whether, either in consequence of your wounds or as a visitation of God for your treason,
you are the victim of a deplorable hallucination. But the Court wishes you to understand that
it is satisfied of your identity. The papers found upon your person at the time of your arrest,
besides other evidence in our power, remove all possibility of doubt in that connection. Therefore,
in your own interests, we implore you to abandon these false statements, if so be that you
are master of your wits. Your only hope of saving your head must lie in your truthfully answering
our questions, and even then, Monsieur de Lesperon, the hope that we hold out to you is so
slight as to be no hope at all."

There was a pause, during which the other judges nodded their heads in sage approval of their
President's words. For myself, I kept silent, perceiving how little it could avail me to continue
to protest, and awaited his next question.

"You were arrested, monsieur, at the Chateau de Lavedan two nights ago by a company of dragoons
under the command of Captain de Castelroux. Is that so?"

"It is so, monsieur."

"And at the time of your arrest, upon being apprehended as Rene de Lesperon, you offered no
repudiation of the identity; on the contrary, when Monsieur de Castelroux called for Monsieur
de Lesperon, you stepped forward and acknowledged that you were he."

"Pardon, monsieur. What I acknowledged was that I was known by that name."

The President chuckled evilly, and his satellites smiled in polite reflection of his mood.

"This acute differentiating is peculiar, Monsieur de Lesperon, to persons of unsound mental
condition," said he. "I am afraid that it will serve little purpose. A man is generally known
by his name, is he not?" I did not answer him. "Shall we call Monsieur de Castelroux to confirm
what I have said?"

"It is not necessary. Since you allow that I may have said I was known by the name, but refuse
to recognize the distinction between that and a statement that 'Lesperon' is my name, it would
serve no purpose to summon the Captain."

The President nodded, and with that the point was dismissed, and he proceeded as calmly as
though there never had been any question of my identity.

"You are charged, Monsieur de Lesperon, with high treason in its most virulent and malignant
form. You are accused of having borne arms against His Majesty. Have you anything to say?"

"I have to say that it is false, monsieur; that His Majesty has no more faithful or loving
subject than am I."

The President shrugged his shoulders, and a shade of annoyance crossed his face.

"If you are come here for no other purpose than to deny the statements that I make, I am afraid
that we are but wasting time," he cried testily. "If you desire it, I can summon Monsieur de
Castelroux to swear that at the time of your arrest and upon being charged with the crime you
made no repudiation of that charge."

"Naturally not, monsieur," I cried, somewhat heated by this seemingly studied ignoring of important
facts, "because I realized that it was Monsieur de Castelroux's mission to arrest and not to
judge me. Monsieur de Castelroux was an officer, not a Tribunal, and to have denied this or
that to him would have been so much waste of breath."

"Ah! Very nimble; very nimble, in truth, Monsieur de Lesperon, but scarcely convincing. We
will proceed. You are charged with having taken part in several of the skirmishes against the
armies of Marshals de Schomberg and La Force, and finally, with having been in close attendance
upon Monsieur de Montmorency at the battle of Castelnaudary. What have you to say?"

"That it is utterly untrue."

"Yet your name, monsieur, is on a list found among the papers in the captured baggage of Monsieur
le Duc de Montmorency."

"No, monsieur," I denied stoutly, "it is not."

The President smote the table a blow that scattered a flight of papers.

"Par la mort Dieu!" he roared, with a most indecent exhibition of temper in one so placed.
"I have had enough of your contradictions. You forget, monsieur, your position--"

"At least," I broke in harshly, "no less than you forget yours."

The Keeper of the Seals gasped for breath at that, and his fellow judges murmured angrily amongst
themselves. Chatellerault maintained his sardonic smile, but permitted himself to utter no word.

