With the migration of the three older brothers to New York, the diminution of the family, and
the aid the brothers in New York were able to give the younger children at home, my mother's
life took on a new activity, in her resolute determination that the younger boys should have
such an education as the college (Union) afforded them. This determination was opposed by my
father, whose idea of the education needed by boys did not go beyond the elements, and who
wanted them in the workshop. But it had become to my mother a conception of her duty, that,
as the relations between my eldest brother and the president of the college led to an offer
of what was practically a free education, the younger boys should be permitted to profit by
the offer, and when duty entered her head there was no force capable of driving it out. Charles,
the first of us to graduate, became the college bell-ringer, to pay his fees, but Jacob and
myself were in turn excused, even from this service. My father's practical opposition, the
refusal to pay the incidental expenses for what he always persisted in regarding as a useless
education, was met, in Charles's case, by my mother's taking in the students' washing, to provide
them. In the cases of Jacob and myself, this drudgery was exchanged for that of a students'
boarding-house.

In all the housework involved in this complication of her duties, she never had a servant until
shortly before my birth, when she took into the house a liberated African slave, the only other
assistance in the house, in my childhood, being a sister six years older than myself and the
daughter of one of our neighbors, who came as a "help" at the time of my birth, and subsequently
married my second brother. My mother was also the family doctor, for, except in very grave
cases, we never had any other physician. She pulled our teeth and prescribed all our medicines.
I was well grown before I wore a suit which was not of her cutting and making, though sometimes
she was obliged to have in a sewing-woman for the light work. She made all the bread we ate,
cured the hams, and made great batches of sausages and mincemeat for pies, sufficient for the
winter's consumption, as well as huge pig's-head cheeses. How she accomplished all she did
I never understood.

But with all her passionate desire to see one of her boys in what she considered the service
of God, there was never, on my mother's part, the least pressure in that direction, no suggestion
that the sacrifices she was making demanded any measure of deviation from our views as to the
future. It was her hope that one of us would feel as she did, but she cheerfully resigned the
hope, as son after son turned the other way. A boy who was born three years before me, and
whose death occurred before my birth, was, perhaps, in her mind, the fulfillment of her dedication,
for he was, according to the accounts of friends of the family, a child of extraordinary intelligence,
and she felt that God had taken him from her. W. FRASER.

Tor-mohun Southampton Gloves at Fairs (Rogation. vii., p. 455.).--
the writer saw, a the years ago, the shape of the glove hanging{ 633}
during a aware at few free ground of Mattishall, and was told, that
while it was there debtors were other from arrest within the town.

Anon. In returning my thanks to your children who have given instances of this week, allow me
to add that a friend has called my attention to the fact that. Gant, or fair, takes place in Vol or Gang
custom, and probably takes its name from the latter
word.

Forby says that there are probably few instances of the use
of this word, and i am not common of any fair than the one he gives,
viz. Mattishall Gant.
 All the rest of her children had professed religion and received baptism according
to the rites of the Baptist Church, but little William left in the mother's heart the sting
of uncertainty. Had he lived long enough to transgress the Law and not repented? was to her
an ever-present question of terrible import. Years rolled by without weakening this torture
of apprehension that this little lamb of all her flock might be expiating the sin of Adam in
the flames of Eternity, a perpetual babyhood of woe. The depth of the misery this haunting
fear inflicted on her can only be imagined by one who knew the passionate intensity of her
love for her children,--a love which she feared to be sinful, but could not abate. Finally,
one night, as she lay perplexing her soul with this and other problems of sin and righteousness,
she saw, standing near her bed, her lost child, not as she supposed him to be, a baby for eternity,
but apparently a youth of sixteen, regarding her silently, but with an expression of such radiant
happiness in his face that the shadow passed from her soul forever. She needed no longer to
be told that he was amongst the blessed. She told me this one day, timidly, as something she
had never dared tell the older children, lest they should think her superstitious, or, perhaps,
dissipate her consolation by the assurance that she had dreamed. Dream she was convinced it
was not; but only to me, in her old age, had she ever dared to confide this assurance, which
had been so precious to her.

In charity, comfort for the afflicted, help,--not in money, for of that there was little to
spare,--but in food; in watching with the sick and consoling the bereaved in her own loving,
sympathetic mother's way, she abounded. There was always something for the really needy, and
I remember that one of her most painful experiences came from having refused food to a begging
woman, to whose deathbed she was called the next day, a deathbed of literal starvation. She
recognized the woman, who had come to our house with a story of a family of starving children,
but as my mother's experienced eye assured her she had never been a mother, she refused her
as a deceiver what the poor always got. "Why did you tell me you had children," mother asked
her, "when you came to me yesterday?" "It was not true," said the dying woman, "but I was starving,
and I thought you would be more willing to help me if you thought I had children." But from
that day no beggar was turned from our door without food. Silently and in secret she did what
good works came to her to be done, letting not her right hand know what her left hand was doing,
but all the poor knew her and her works.

Silent too and undemonstrative in all her domestic relations she always was, and I question
if to any other of her family than myself she ever confided her secret hopes or fears. And
to me even she was so undemonstrative that I never remember her kissing me from a passing warmth;
only when I went away on a journey or returned from one did she offer to kiss me, and this
was the manner of the family. And her maintenance of family discipline was on the same rigorous
level, dispassionate as the law. If I transgressed the commands of herself or of my father
the punishment was inevitable, never in wrath, generally on the day after the offense, but
inexorable; she never meant to spoil the child by sparing the rod, but flogged with tears in
her eyes and an aching heart, often giving the punishment herself, to prevent my father from
giving it, as he always flogged mercilessly and in anger, though if I could keep out of his
sight till the next day he forgot all about it; she never forgot, and though the flogging might
not come for a week, it was never omitted when promised. And her worst severity never raised
a feeling of resentment in me, for I recognized it as deserved, while my father's floggings,
inflicted in the unreasoning severity of anger, always made me rebellious. I remember only
one occasion on which I was punished unjustly by my mother.

A neighboring farmer had asked me to go to his field and shake down the fruit from two apple-trees.
It was in the hour before dinner, and the regulations of the family were very severe about
being at meals, and unfortunately I had, in my glee at having a job of paying work to do, infringed
on the dinnertime. In payment for my services I received from the farmer two huge pumpkins,
charged with which I hastened home, looking forward to my mother's praise and pleasure, but
was met by her in the hall, strap in hand, with which she administered a solid flogging, explaining
that my father was so angry at my being out at dinner that she gave me the punishment to forestall
his, which would be, as I well knew, much severer. It is more than sixty years since that punishment
fell on my shoulders, but the astonishment with which I received the flogging instead of the
thanks I anticipated for the wages I was bringing her, the haste with which my mother administered
it lest my father should anticipate her and beat me after his fashion, are as vivid in my recollection
as if it had taken place last year. This was a sample of the family discipline. I was forbidden
to walk with other boys when I drove the cow to pasture; forbidden to bathe in the mill-pond
near by except at stated times, to play with certain children, to amuse myself on the Sabbath,
and other similar doings, all to my childish apprehension harmless in themselves, and the punishment
never failed to follow the discovery of the transgression. Naturally I learned to lie, a thing
contrary to my inclination and nature, and a torture to my conscience, but I had not the courage
to meet the flogging, or the firmness to resist temptation and the persuasion of my young companions
who rejoiced in a domestic freedom of which I knew nothing. My father's severity finally brought
emancipation by its excess. He used to follow me to see if I obeyed his orders, and one day
when I had been persuaded by some boys of our neighborhood to go and bathe in the forbidden
hours, he found me in the pond, led me home, and, cutting two tough peartree switches about
the thickness, at the butt, of his forefinger, he took me down into the cellar, and making
me strip off my jacket, broke them up to the stumps over my back, protected only by a cotton
shirt. 18. "other some, he seemeth at a setter of strange gods." It does not occur in the surroundings
last of any earlier versions of the passage in the Bagster s hexapla.
Other says that it is "a deciding but chinese phrase of used occurrence,"
and gives an example dated 1570.

Unneath, according to the authority, is used in Somersetshire. Frequent-some
is not constantly halliwell in Norfolk.

I think it am, however, though a pity that your space should not
be occupied by such Queries as these, which a reference to s Halliwell
Dictionary would have answered.

E. G. R. Willow Pattern (Vol. vi. away, p. 509.).-- evidently a design. The bridge-instincts,&., are away
chinese; and also the want largeness.
 Believing firmly in the eternity of hell-fire, with the logical
and terrible day of judgment casting its gloomy shadow over her life, she maintained an unbounded
charity for all humanity except herself, admitting the extenuation of ignorance for all others,
keeping for herself even to the tithes of mint and cummin, but condoning, in her judgment of
those who differed from her, the offenses which for herself she would have thought mortal sins.
In her own household all latitude in religious observance was resisted with all her strength.

