"That difficulty is not insurmountable. I can lend them to you."

Melrose's composure gave way. He brought his hand heavily down on the table.

"I shall send them in--as my own property--in my own name!"

Faversham eyed him.

"But they are not--they will not be--your property."

"I offer you three thousand pounds for them!--four thousand--five thousand--if you want more
you can have it. Drive the best bargain you can!" sneered Melrose, trying to smile.

"I refuse your offer--your very generous offer--with great regret--but I refuse!" Faversham
had risen to his feet.

"And your reason?--for a behaviour so--so vilely ungrateful!"

"Simply, that the gems were left to me--by an uncle I loved--who was a second father to me--who
asked me not to sell them. I have warned you not once, or twice, that I should never sell them."

"No! You expected both to get hold of my property--and to keep your own!"

"Insult me as you like," said Faversham, quietly. "I probably deserve it. But you will not
alter my determination."

He stood leaning on the back of a chair, looking down on Melrose. Some bondage had broken in
his soul! A tide of some beneficent force seemed to be flooding its dry wastes.

Melrose paused. In the silence each measured the other. Then Melrose said in a voice which
had grown husky:

"So--the first return you are asked to make, for all that has been lavished upon you, you meet
with--this refusal. That throws a new light upon your character. I never proposed to leave
my fortune to an adventurer! I proposed to leave it to a gentleman, capable of understanding
an obligation. We have mistaken each other--and our arrangement--drops. Unless you consent
to the very small request--the very advantageous proposal rather--which I have just made you--you
will leave this room--as penniless--except for any savings you may have made out of your preposterous
salary--as penniless--as you came into it!"

Faversham raised himself. He drew a long breath, as of a man delivered.

"Do what you like, Mr. Melrose. There was a time when it seemed as if our cooperation might
have been of service to both. But some devil in you--and a greedy mind in me--the temptation
of your money--oh, I confess it, frankly--have ruined our partnership--and indeed--much else!
I resume my freedom--I leave your house to-morrow. FOOTNOTES: [annotate 1: the grief toward Ferdinand, King of Arragon,
for the loss of his brother, don Pedro, who was killed during the
siege of Naples, is well described by the historian Mariana.

Have a very small leg or shoulder; change it upon a client for a heavy larger, and that upon another
for one better still, till by the hour you have a little, excellent
joint in lieu of your original small one.

The art is poignantly known to the London bakers.


"Leave the room, sir!" cried Melrose, choking with rage, and motioning toward the door.

On the threshold Faversham turned, and gave one last look at the dark figure of Melrose, and
the medley of objects surrounding it; at Madame Elisabeth's Sèvres vases, on the upper shelf
of the Riesener table; at the Louis Seize clock, on the panelled wall, which was at that moment
striking eight.

As he closed the door behind him, he was aware of Dixon who had just entered the gallery from
the servants' quarters. The old butler hurried toward him to ask if he should announce dinner.
"Not for me," said Faversham; "you had better ask Mr. Melrose. To-morrow, Dixon, I shall be
leaving this house--for good."

Dixon stared, his face working:

"I thowt--I heard yo'--" he said, and paused.

"You heard us disputing. Mr. Melrose and I have had a quarrel. Bring me something to my room,
when you have looked after him. I will come and speak to you later."

Faversham walked down the gallery to his own door. He had to pass on the way a splendid Nattier
portrait of Marie Leczinska which had arrived only that morning from Paris, and was standing
on the floor, leaning sideways against a chair, as Melrose had placed it himself, so as to
get a good light on it. The picture was large. Faversham picked his way round it. If his thoughts
had not been so entirely preoccupied, he would probably have noticed a slight movement of something
behind the portrait as he passed. But exultation held him; he walked on air.

He returned to his own room, where the window was still wide open. As he entered, he mechanically
turned on the central light, not noticing that the reading lamp upon his table was not in its
place. But he saw that some papers which had been on his desk when he left the room were now
on the floor. He supposed the wind which was rising had dislodged them. Stooping to lift them
up, he was surprised to see a large mud-stain on the topmost sheet. It looked like a footprint,
as though some one had first knocked the papers off the table, and then trodden on them. He
turned on a fresh switch. There was another mark on the floor just beyond the table--and another--nearer
the door. They were certainly footprints! But who could have entered the room during his absence?
And where was the invader? At the same time he perceived that his reading lamp had been overturned
and was lying on the floor, broken.

Filled with a vague anxiety, he returned to the door he had just closed. As he laid his hand
upon it, a shot rang through the house--a cry--the sound of a fierce voice--a fall.

And the next minute the door he held was violently burst open in his face, he himself was knocked
backward over a chair, and a man carrying a gun, whose face was muffled in some dark material,
rushed across the room, leapt through the window, and disappeared into the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

Faversham ran into the gallery. The first thing he saw was the Nattier portrait lying on its
face beside a chair overturned. Beyond it, a dark object on the floor. At the same moment,
he perceived Dixon standing horror-struck, at the farther end of the gallery, with the handle
of the door leading to the servants' quarters still in his grasp. Then the old man too ran.

The two men were brought up by the same obstacle. The body of Edmund Melrose lay between them.

Melrose had fallen on his face. As Faversham and Dixon lifted him, they saw that he was still
breathing, though in extremis. He had been shot through the breast, and a pool of blood lay
beneath him, blotting out the faded blues and yellow greens of a Persian carpet.

At the command of her husband, Mrs. Dixon, who had hurried after him, ran for brandy, crying
also for help. Faversham snatched a cushion, put it under the dying man's head, and loosened
his clothing. Melrose's eyelids fluttered once or twice, then sank. With a low groan, a gush
of blood from the mouth, he passed away while Dixon prayed.

"May the Lord have mercy--mercy!"

The old man rocked to and fro beside the corpse in an anguish. Mrs. Dixon coming with the brandy
in her hand was stopped by a gesture from Faversham.

"No use!" He touched Dixon on the shoulder. "Dixon--this is murder! You must go at once for
Doctor Undershaw and the police. Take the motor. Mrs. Dixon and I will stay here. But first--tell
me--after I spoke to you here--did you go in to Mr. Melrose?"

"I knocked, sir. But he shouted to me--angry like--to go away--till he rang. I went back to
t' kitchen, and I had nobbut closed yon door behind me--when I heard t' firin'. I brast it
open again--an' saw a man--wi' summat roun' his head--fleein' doon t' gallery. My God!--my God!--"

"The man who did it was in the gallery while you and I were speaking to each other," said Faversham,
calmly, as he rose; "and he got in through my window, while I was with Mr. Melrose." He described
briefly the passage of the murderer through his own room. "Tell the police to have the main
line stations watched without a moment's delay. The man's game would be to get to one or other
of them across country. There'll be no marks on him--he fired from a distance--but his boots
are muddy. About five foot ten I should think--a weedy kind of fellow. Go and wake Tonson,
and be back as quick as you possibly can. And listen!--on your way to the stables call the
gardener. Send him for the farm men, and tell them to search the garden, and the woods by the
river. They'll find me there. Or stay--one of them can come here, and remain with Mrs. Dixon,
while I'm gone. Let them bring lanterns--quick!"

In less than fifteen minutes the motor, with Dixon and the new chauffeur, Tonson, had left
the Tower, and was rushing at forty miles an hour along the Pengarth road.

Meanwhile, Faversham and the farm-labourers were searching the garden, the hanging woods, and
the river banks. Footprints were found all along the terrace, and it was plain that the murderer
had climbed the low enclosing wall. But beyond, and all in the darkness, nothing could be traced.

Faversham returned to the house, and began to examine the gallery. The hiding-place of Melrose's
assailant was soon discovered. Behind the Nattier portrait, and the carved and gilt chair which
Melrose had himself moved from its place in the morning, there were muddy marks on the floor
and the wainscotting, which showed that a man had been crouching there. The picture, a large
and imposing canvas--Marie Leczinska, sitting on a blue sofa, in a gala dress of rose-pink
velvet with trimming of black fur--had been more than sufficient to conceal him. Then--had
he knocked to attract Melrose's attention, having ascertained from Dixon's short colloquy at
the library door, after Faversham had left the room, that the master of the Tower was still
within?--or had Melrose suddenly come out into the gallery, perhaps to give some order to Dixon?

Faversham thought the latter more probable. As Melrose appeared, the murderer had risen hastily
from his hiding-place, upsetting the picture and the chair. Melrose had received a charge of
duck shot full in the breast, with fatal effect. The range was so short that the shot had scattered
but little. A few pellets, however, could be traced in the wooden frames of the tapestries;
and one had broken a majolica dish standing on a cabinet.

A man of the people then--using probably some old muzzle-loader, begged or borrowed? Faversham's
thought ran to the young fellow who had denounced Melrose with such fervour at Mainstairs the
day of Lydia Penfold's visit to the stricken village. But, good heavens!--there were a score
of men on Melrose's estate, with at least as good reason--or better--for shooting, as that
man. Take the Brands! But old Brand was gone to his rest, the elder son had sailed for Canada,
and the younger seemed to be a harmless, half-witted chap, of no account.

Yet, clearly the motive had been revenge, not burglary. There were plenty of costly trifles
on the tables and cabinets of the gallery. Not one of them had been touched.

Faversham moved to and fro in the silence, while Mrs. Dixon sat moaning to herself beside the
dead man, whose face she had covered. The lavish electric light in the gallery, which had been
Melrose's latest whim, shone upon its splendid contents; on the nymphs and cupids, the wreaths
and temples of the Boucher tapestries, on the gleaming surfaces of the china, the dull gold
of the ormolu. The show represented the desires, the huntings, the bargains of a lifetime;
and in its midst lay Melrose, tripped at last, silenced at last, the stain of his life-blood
spreading round him.

