As already stated, a characteristic feature of the atomic bomb, which is quite foreign to ordinary
explosives, is that a very appreciable fraction of the energy liberated goes into radiant heat
and light.  For a sufficiently large explosion, the flash burn produced by this radiated energy
will become the dominant cause of damage, since the area of burn damage will increase in proportion
to the energy released, whereas the area of blast damage increases only with the two-thirds
power of the energy.  Although such a reversal of the mechanism of damage was not achieved
in the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs, the effects of the flash were, however, very evident,
and many casualties resulted from flash burns.  A discussion of the casualties caused by flash
burns will be given later; in this section will be described the other flash effects which
were observed in the two cities.

The duration of the heat radiation from the bomb is so short, just a few thousandths of a second,
that there is no time for the energy falling on a surface to be dissipated by thermal defusion;
the flash burn is typically a surface effect.  In other words the surface of either a person
or an object exposed to the flash is raised to a very high temperature while immediately beneath
the surface very little rise in temperature occurs.

The flash burning of the surface of objects, particularly wooden objects, occurred in Hiroshima
up to a radius of 9,500 feet from X; at Nagasaki burns were visible up to 11,000 feet from
X.  The charring and blackening of all telephone poles, trees and wooden posts in the areas
not destroyed by the general fire occurred only on the side facing the center of explosion
and did not go around the corners of buildings or hills.  The exact position of the explosion
was in fact accurately determined by taking a number of sights from various objects which had
been flash burned on one side only.

To illustrate the effects of the flash burn, the following describes a number of examples found
by an observer moving northward from the center of explosion in Nagasaki.  First occurred a
row of fence posts at the north edge of the prison hill, at 0.3 miles from X.  The top and
upper part of these posts were heavily charred.  The charring on the front of the posts was
sharply limited by the shadow of a wall.  This wall had however been completely demolished
by the blast, which of course arrived some time after the flash.  At the north edge of the
Torpedo works, 1.05 miles from X, telephone poles were charred to a depth of about 0.5 millimeters.
A light piece of wood similar to the flat side of an orange crate, was found leaning against
one of the telephone poles.  Its front surface was charred the same way as the pole, but it
was evident that it had actually been ignited.  The wood was blackened through a couple of
cracks and nail holes, and around the edges onto the back surface.  It seemed likely that this
piece of wood had flamed up under the flash for a few seconds before the flame was blown out
by the wind of the blast.  Farther out, between 1.05 and 1.5 miles from the explosion, were
many trees and poles showing a blackening.  Some of the poles had platforms near the top. 
The shadows cast by the platforms were clearly visible and showed that the bomb had detonated
at a considerable height.  The row of poles turned north and crossed the mountain ridge; the
flash burn was plainly visible all the way to the top of the ridge, the farthest burn observed
being at 2.0 miles from X.

