Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and thanks much for the letter of
the 30th ult., which he received here yesterday morning. He believes it is more prudent not
to go to London, but he greatly regrets that his not doing so will deprive him for so long
a time of the honour and pleasure of seeing your Majesty.

The Duke of Sussex acquainted Lord Melbourne and took his opinion before he issued his cards
for the dinner. Lord Melbourne does not think that he can have any idea of playing the part
to which Lord Erroll alluded. It is better that a dinner should be given somewhere. He having
nothing of the kind would look too much like giving up the whole business and disbanding the
party. Lord Melbourne entirely agrees with your Majesty as to the political conduct which ought
to be pursued by the members of the Royal Family, but he remembers no time in which they have
been induced to act with so much prudence and propriety. Your Majesty will see in Adolphus
the very prominent share which the Duke of Cumberland,[9] the General of Culloden, took in
the Party contentions of those days. He was a strong partisan and in a great measure the founder
of the Whig party. Lord Melbourne has often heard George IV. converse upon that subject, and
he used to contend that it was quite impossible for a Prince of Wales in this country to avoid
taking an active part in politics and political contentions. The fact is, that George III.
did not discourage this in his own family sufficiently, and the King of Hanover always said
that his father had encouraged him in the active part which he took, and which certainly was
sufficiently objectionable.

The assassination of Drummond is indeed a horrible event. Lord Melbourne does not see as yet
any clear, distinct, and certain evidence of what were the real motives and object of the man.
But we shall hear upon his trial what it is that he urges. Your Majesty will, of course, recollect
that the Jury acquitted Oxford, and there then was nothing to do but to acquiesce in the verdict.
If the Jury should take a similar view of this man's crime, it will be impossible for the Government
to do anything to remedy the evil which Lord Melbourne thinks will be caused by such a decision.
Lord Melbourne knew Mr Drummond pretty well. He used formerly to be much in Hertfordshire,
both at Hatfield and at Gorhambury, and Lord Melbourne has often met him at both places, and
thought him with all the rest of the world, a very quiet, gentlemanly, and agreeable man. Lord
Melbourne very well remembers the murder of Mr Perceval and Bellingham's trial. Lord Melbourne
was then in the House of Commons, but was not present at the time the crime was perpetrated.
There were differences of opinion as to the manner in which Sir James Mansfield conducted the
trial. Many thought that he ought to have given more time, which was asked for on the part
of the prisoner, in order to search for evidence at Liverpool. But the law which he laid down
in his charge is certainly sound, correct, and reasonable. Lord Melbourne is very glad to think
that your Majesty has not to go to the House of Lords to-day.

    [Footnote 9: This Duke died unmarried in 1765, and his nephew,
    the fourth son of Frederick, Prince of Wales, was created Duke
    of Cumberland in 1766. He in his turn died without issue, in
    1790, and in 1799 the fifth son of George III. (afterwards
    King of Hanover) received the same title.]

[Pageheading: THE AMERICAN TREATY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 3rd February 1843.

... Lord Melbourne thinks that the Speech was very well and judiciously drawn; the only paragraph
which he does not like is that about the American treaty.[10] It betrays too great an anxiety
for peace, and too much fear of war.[11]

    [Footnote 10: See ante, pp. 368, 370 (Ch. X, 'The United States').
    The treaty had been negotiated by Lord Ashburton.]

    [Footnote 11: "By the treaty which Her Majesty has concluded
    with the United States of America, and by the adjustment of
    those differences which, from their long continuance, had
    endangered the preservation of peace, Her Majesty trusts
    that the amicable relations of the two countries have been
    confirmed."]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 6th February 1843.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--I am quite of your opinion about balls. Nothing can change what cannot
change, and I consider all these things, which have always been a bore to me, as a matter of
duty and not otherwise. The duties of station are to be fulfilled like the others, and my first
and most pleasant duty is to do all that your Uncle may command or wish. Your Uncle was much
shocked by your answer about Miss Meyer,[12] whom he considered of uncommon beauty. He is quite
in love with her picture, and is very anxious to discover who she is. The other pictures of
the book of beauty he abandons to you, and they are certainly worthy of a book of ugliness....
Yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

    [Footnote 12: Eugénie Meyer, step-daughter of Colonel Gurwood,
    C.B., married the first Viscount Esher, Master of the Rolls.
    The Queen had written that she did not admire that style of
    beauty.]

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD AND PEEL]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 10th February 1843.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... I am very much gratified by your having shown my hasty scrawl to
Sir Robert Peel, and that the sincere expression of a conscientious opinion should have given
him pleasure.

It was natural at first that you should not have liked to take him as your Premier; many circumstances
united against him. But I must say for you and your family, as well as for England, it was
a great blessing that so firm and honourable a man as Peel should have become the head of your
Administration. The State machine breaks often down in consequence of mistakes made forty and
fifty years ago; so it was in France where even Louis XIV. had already laid the first foundation
for what happened nearly a hundred years afterwards.

I believe, besides, Sir Robert sincerely and warmly attached to you, and as you say with great
truth, quite above mere party feeling. Poor Lady Peel must be much affected by what has happened....
Your truly devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He received here on Friday last, the 10th, your Majesty's
letter of the 8th, which gave him great pleasure, and for which he gratefully thanks your Majesty.
Lord Melbourne is getting better, and hopes soon to be nearly as well as he was before this
last attack, but he still finds his left hand and arm and his left leg very much affected,
and he does not recover his appetite, and worse still, he is very sleepless at night, an evil
which he is very little used to, and of which he is very impatient....

Lord Melbourne adheres to all he said about Lord Ashburton and the Treaty, but he thinks more
fire than otherwise would have taken place was drawn upon Lord Ashburton by the confident declaration
of Stanley that his appointment was generally approved. The contrary is certainly the case.
There is much of popular objection to him from his American connection and his supposed strong
American interests. Lady Ashburton, with whom he received a large fortune, is a born American.
But he is supposed to possess much funded property in that country, and to have almost as strong
an interest in its welfare as in that of Great Britain. With all this behind, it is a bad thing
to say that his appointment was liable to no suspicion or objection. It seems to Lord Melbourne
that what with Ellenborough with the Gates of Ghuznee upon his shoulders,[13] and Ashburton
with the American Treaty round his neck, the Ministry have nearly as heavy a load upon them
as they can stand up under, and Lord Melbourne would not be surprised if they were to lighten
themselves of one or the other.

    [Footnote 13: The Somnauth Proclamation created a good deal of
    ridicule.]

[Pageheading: POSITION OF THE PRINCE OF WALES]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He means the part relating to the character and situation
of a Prince of Wales in this country. George IV. was so conscious of having mixed himself most
unrestrainedly in politics, and of having taken a very general part in opposition to his father's
Government and wishes, that he was naturally anxious to exonerate himself from blame, and to
blame it upon the necessity of his position rather than upon his own restless and intermeddling
disposition. But Lord Melbourne agrees with your Majesty that his excuse was neither valid
nor justifiable, and Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty and the Prince may be
successful in training and instructing the young Prince of Wales, and to make him understand
correctly his real position and its duties, and to enable him to withstand the temptations
and seductions with which he will find himself beset, when he approaches the age of twenty-one.
It is true that Sir John made the observation, which Lord Melbourne mentioned to your Majesty,
and which you now remember correctly. He made it to Sir James Graham, when he went to talk
to him about the offence which William IV. had taken at the Duchess of Kent's marine excursion;
and at the receiving of royal salutes. Your Majesty was not very long in the situation of an
acknowledged, admitted, and certain Heir Apparent, but still long enough to be aware of the
use which those around you were inclined to make of that situation and of the petitions and
applications which it naturally produced from others, and therefore to have an idea of the
difficulties of it.

Lord Melbourne heartily wishes your Majesty every success in the interesting and important
task in which you are engaged of forming the character and disposition of the young Prince.

[Pageheading: DOMESTIC HAPPINESS]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

CANFORD HOUSE, 14th February 1843.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--Your delightful letter of Tuesday gave me such pleasure and satisfaction
that I must thank you with all my heart for it. Your happiness, and your gratitude for that
happiness, is most gratifying to my feelings, having loved you from your infancy almost as
much as if you had been my own child. It is therefore happiness to me to hear from yourself
those expressions to which you gave vent. I thank God that you have such an excellent husband,
so well calculated to make you happy and to assist you in your arduous duties by his advice,
as well as his help in sharing your troubles. I pray that your domestic happiness may last
uninterruptedly, and that you may enjoy it through a long, long period of many, many years.
You cannot say too much of yourself and dear Albert when you write to me, for it is a most
interesting subject to my heart, I assure you.

What a shame to have put on darling little Victoria a powdered wig! Poor dear child must have
looked very strange with it! Did her brother appear in einer Allonge-Perücke?...

I shall hope to follow you to town early next month, and look forward with great pleasure to
seeing you so soon again. Forgive me my horrible scrawl, and with my best love to dearest Albert,
believe me, ever, my dearest Victoria, your most affectionate and faithfully devoted Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

Pray tell your dear mother, with my affectionate love, that I will answer her letter to-morrow.

[Pageheading: INTERCHANGE OF VISITS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 14th February 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your kind letter of the 10th, which I received on Sunday.
I am only a little wee bit distressed at your writing on the 10th, and not taking any notice
of the dearest, happiest day in my life, to which I owe the present great domestic happiness
I now enjoy, and which is much greater than I deserve, though certainly my Kensington life
for the last six or seven years had been one of great misery and oppression, and I may expect
some little retribution, and, indeed, after my accession, there was a great deal of worry.
Indeed I am grateful for possessing (really without vanity or flattery or blindness) the most
perfect being as a husband in existence, or who ever did exist; and I doubt whether anybody
ever did love or respect another as I do my dear Angel! And indeed Providence has ever mercifully
protected us, through manifold dangers and trials, and I feel confident will continue to do
so, and then let outward storms and trials and sorrows be sent us, and we can bear all....

I could not help smiling at the exactitude about Monday the 19th of June; it is a great happiness
to us to think with such certainty (D.V.) of your kind visit, which would suit perfectly. À
propos of this, I am anxious to tell you that we are full of hope of paying you in August a
little visit, which last year was in so melancholy a way interrupted; but we think that for
many reasons it would be better for us to pay you our first visit only at Ostend, and not at
Brussels or Laeken; you could lodge us anywhere, and we need then bring but very few people
with us--it might also facilitate the meeting with Albert's good old grandmother, who fears
to cross the sea, and whose great wish is to behold Albert again--and would not be so difficult
(pour la lère fois) in many ways. I could, nevertheless, see Bruges and Ghent from thence by
help of the railroad, and return the same day to Ostend.

What you say about Peel is very just. Good Lord Melbourne is much better.

I hope soon to hear more about Joinville and Donna Francesca. Now, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

We are all very well (unberufen) and move, to our horror, to town on Friday.

[Pageheading: COBDEN'S ATTACK ON PEEL]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 18th February (1843). The motion of Lord Howick[14] was rejected by a large majority,
the number being--

  For the Motion            191
  Against it                305
                            ---
  Majority                  114
                            ---

The chief speakers were Mr R. Cobden and Lord John Russell in favour of the motion, Mr Attwood,
Lord Francis Egerton, and Sir Robert Peel against it.

In the course of the evening there was much excitement and animated discussion, in consequence
of the speech of Mr Cobden, who is the chief patron of the Anti-Corn Law League.

Mr Cobden with great vehemence of manner observed more than once that Sir Robert Peel ought
to be held individually responsible for the distress of the country.[15]

Coupling these expressions with the language frequently held at the meetings of the Anti-Corn
Law League, and by the press in connection with it, Sir Robert Peel in replying to Mr Cobden
charged him with holding language calculated to excite to personal violence.

    [Footnote 14: To go into Committee on the depression of the
    manufacturing industry. The debate turned mainly on the Corn
    Laws.]

    [Footnote 15: To this attack Peel replied with excessive
    warmth, amid the frantic cheering of his party, who almost
    refused to hear Cobden's explanation in reply. Peel, alarmed
    at the fate of Drummond, thought (or affected to think) that
    Cobden was singling him out as a fit object for assassination.
    For years Cobden resented this language of Peel most deeply.
    "Peel's atrocious conduct towards me ought not to be lost
    sight of," he wrote in February 1846. A rapprochement was
    effected by Miss Martineau--see her letter to Peel (Parker,
    vol. iii. p. 330)--and a reference to the matter by Disraeli
    in the House of Commons led to satisfactory explanations on
    both sides.]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Lincoln.[16]

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 18th February 1843.

The Queen, immediately on her arrival yesterday, went to look at the new Chapel, with which
she is much pleased, but was extremely disappointed to find it still in such a backward state.
As it is of the utmost importance to the Queen to be able to use it very soon, she wishes Lord
Lincoln would be so good as to hurry on the work as much as possible; perhaps Lord Lincoln
could increase the number of workmen, as there seemed to her to be very few there yesterday.

    [Footnote 16: Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests.]

[Pageheading: FANNY BURNEY'S DIARY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne entreats your Majesty that you never will
think for a moment that you can tire him by questions, or that it can be to him anything but
a great pleasure to answer them. He will be only too happy if any information that he possesses
or can procure can be of the least use or pleasure to your Majesty. Lord Melbourne conceives
that your Majesty must be surprised at his complaining of sleeplessness. He is much obliged
by the suggestion of the camphor. He mentioned it to the gentleman who attends him, and he
said that it was a very good thing, and certainly has a soothing and quieting effect, and that
in fact there was some in the draught which Lord Melbourne now takes at night. But Lord Melbourne
has taken to going down to dinner with those who are in the house, and sitting up afterwards
until near twelve o'clock, and since he has done this he has slept better. We expect the Duke
and Duchess of Bedford for two nights on Wednesday next. Lord and Lady Uxbridge and Ella and
Constance often come over in the morning and eat their luncheon here, which Lord Melbourne
takes very kindly of them. George Byng[17] came the other morning in a waistcoat of Peel's
velveteen. Lord Strafford brought the whole piece off the manufacturer, and let George Byng
have enough for a waistcoat. It is a dull blue stuff, and the device and inscription not very
clear nor easy to make out.[18]

Adolphus is, as Aberdeen says, too rigidly Tory, but there are plenty of narratives of the
same period, such as Belsham[19] and others, of whom it may be said with equal truth that they
are too Whig....

Lord Melbourne read the Edinburgh on Madame d'Arblay, which is certainly Macaulay's, but thought
it unnecessarily severe upon Queen Charlotte, and that it did not do her justice, and also
that it rather countenanced too much Miss Burney's dislike to her situation. It appears to
Lord Melbourne that Miss Burney was well enough contented to live in the Palace and receive
her salary, but that she was surprised and disgusted as soon as she found that she was expected
to give up some part of her time to conform to some rules, and to perform some duty. Lord Melbourne
is sorry to say that he missed the article on Children's Books,[20] a subject of much importance,
and in which he is much interested.

Lord Melbourne has received the engraving of the Princess, and is much pleased by it, and returns
many thanks. It is very pretty, very spirited, and as far as Lord Melbourne's recollection,
serves him, very like. Lord Melbourne remains, ever, your Majesty's faithful, devoted, and
attached Servant.

    [Footnote 17: Brother-in-law of Lord Uxbridge, and afterwards
    Earl of Stratford.]

    [Footnote 18: The allusion is to a hoax played on the Premier,
    by a presentation made to him of a piece of the then novel
    fabric, velveteen, stamped with a free-trade design. Peel
    afterwards wrote that he was unaware that the specimen bore
    "any allusion to any matters which are the subject of public
    controversy."]

    [Footnote 19: William Belsham (1752-1827) wrote, in twelve
    volumes, A History of Great Britain to the Conclusion of the
    Peace of Amiens in 1802.]

    [Footnote 20: In the Quarterly Review, by Lady Eastlake.]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL (4th March 1843).

The fuller account of the evidence which Sir Robert Peel has seen is on the accompanying newspaper.

The only other information which has reached Sir Robert Peel is contained in a note (enclosed)
from Mr Maule, the solicitor to the Treasury, who conducted the prosecution. The three Judges[21]
appear to have concurred in opinion, that the evidence of insanity was so strong as to require
a verdict of acquittal--and the Chief Justice advised the Jury to find that verdict without
summing up the evidence or delivering any detailed charge upon the facts of the case and the
law bearing upon them.

It is a lamentable reflection that a man may be at the same time so insane as to be reckless
of his own life and the lives of others, and to be pronounced free from moral responsibility,
and yet capable of preparing for the commission of murder with the utmost caution and deliberation,
and of taking every step which shall enable him to commit it with certainty.

    [Footnote 21: Chief Justice Tindal, and Justices Williams and
    Coleridge.]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 10th March 1843. Mr Vernon Smith was followed by Mr Emerson Tennent,[24] one of
the Secretaries to the Board of Controul.

Mr Macaulay next spoke, and condemned the conduct of Lord Ellenborough in a speech of great
bitterness and great ability.

The motion was negatived by a majority of 242 to 157.

The minority included Lord Ashley, Sir Robert Inglis, and six other gentlemen, who generally
support your Majesty's servants.

The debate was a very animated one, with a strong infusion of Party zeal.

    [Footnote 22: See ante, p. 445. (Ch. XI, 'The Gates of Somnauth')]

    [Footnote 23: Robert Vernon Smith (1800-1873), afterwards
    President of the Board of Control, created Lord Lyveden in
    1859.]

    [Footnote 24: James Emerson (1804-1869), afterwards Sir James
    Emerson Tennent, M.P. for Belfast, author of Letters from the
    Ægean, etc.]

[Pageheading: CRIMINAL INSANITY]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th March 1843.

The Queen returns the paper of the Lord Chancellor's to Sir Robert Peel with her best thanks.

The law may be perfect, but how is it that whenever a case for its application arises, it proves
to be of no avail? We have seen the trials of Oxford and MacNaghten conducted by the ablest
lawyers of the day--Lord Denman, Chief Justice Tindal, and Sir Wm. Follett,[25]--and they allow
and advise the Jury to pronounce the verdict of Not Guilty on account of Insanity,--whilst
everybody is morally convinced that both malefactors were perfectly conscious and aware of
what they did! It appears from this, that the force of the law is entirely put into the Judge's
hands, and that it depends merely upon his charge whether the law is to be applied or not.
Could not the Legislature lay down that rule which the Lord Chancellor does in his paper, and
which Chief Justice Mansfield did in the case of Bellingham; and why could not the Judges be
bound to interpret the law in this and no other sense in their charges to the Juries?[26]

    [Footnote 25: Solicitor-General. His health gave way in middle
    life, and he died in 1845.]

    [Footnote 26: In consequence of the manner in which the trial
    terminated, and the feeling excited in the country, the House
    of Lords put certain questions on the subject of criminal
    insanity to the Judges, whose answers have been since
    considered as establishing the law.]

[Pageheading: PRINCESS MARY OF BADEN]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 13th March 1843.

Lord Aberdeen presents his humble duty to your Majesty. In obedience to your Majesty's commands
he has endeavoured to consider the letter of the Grand Duke of Baden with reference to the
position of the Princess Mary[27] in this country. Lord Aberdeen does not find in the proceedings
of the Conference of Great Powers at Vienna, at Aix la Chapelle, or at Paris, anything which
can materially affect the question. The great difficulty with respect to the Princess appears
to arise from the fact that in this country the rank and precedence of every person are regulated
and fixed by law. Should your Majesty be disposed to deviate from the strict observance of
this, although Lord Aberdeen cannot doubt that it would receive a very general acquiescence,
it is still possible that the Princess might be exposed to occasional disappointment and mortification....

There is a consideration, to which Lord Aberdeen would humbly advert, which may not altogether
be unworthy of your Majesty's notice. Your Majesty does not wish to encourage alliances of
this description; and although there may be no danger of their frequent occurrence, it cannot
be denied that an additional inducement would exist if Princesses always retained their own
rank in this country.

On the whole, Lord Aberdeen would humbly submit to your Majesty that the Princess might be
received by your Majesty, in the first instance, with such distinction as was due to her birth--either
by a Royal carriage being sent to bring her to your Majesty's presence, or in any manner which
your Majesty might command--with the understanding that she should permanently adopt the title
and station of her husband. Your Majesty's favour and protection, afforded to her in this character
will probably realise all the expectations of the Grand Duke; and, without acknowledging any
positive claim or right, your Majesty would secure the gratitude of the Princess.

    [Footnote 27: The Princess Mary of Baden had recently married
    the Marquis of Douglas, eldest son of the Duke of Hamilton.
    See p. 439. (Ch. XI, 1st November, 1842)]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE TO HOLD LEVÉES]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th March 1843.

The Queen has spoken again to the Prince about the Levées, who has kindly consented to do what
can be of use and convenience to the Queen. There is one circumstance which must be considered
and settled, and which the Queen omitted to mention to Sir Robert Peel when she saw him. The
chief, indeed the only, object of having these Levées, is to save the Queen the extreme fatigue
of the Presentations which would come in such a mass together when the Queen held them herself;
the Prince naturally holds the Levées for the Queen, and represents her; could not therefore
everybody who was presented to him be made to understand that this would be tantamount to a
presentation to the Queen herself? There might perhaps be an objection on the part of people
presented to kneel and kiss the Prince's hand. But this could be obviated by merely having
the people named to the Prince. The inconvenience would be so great if nobody at all could
be presented till late in the season, that something must be devised to get over this difficulty.

[Pageheading: LEVÉES]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

    "Addresses to Her Majesty may be presented to Her Majesty
    through the Secretary of State, or may be reserved until Her
    Majesty can hold a Levée in person."

Sir Robert Peel humbly submits to your Majesty that it would not be advisable to prohibit by
notice in the Gazette subsequent presentations to your Majesty. It will probably answer every
purpose to state that they shall be considered equivalent, and when your Majesty shall hold
a Levée it may be then notified at the time that second presentations are not necessary.

When the Prince shall hold the Levée, it may be made known at the time, without any formal
public notification, that kneeling and the kissing of hands will not be required.

Sir Robert Peel hopes that the effect of holding these Levées may be materially to relieve
your Majesty, but it is of course difficult to speak with certainty. He was under the impression
that in the reign of Queen Anne, Prince George had occasionally held Levées on the part of
the Queen during the Queen's indisposition, but on searching the Gazette of the time he cannot
find any record of this.

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

CLAREMONT, 19th March 1843.

The Queen has received Sir Robert's letter, and quite approves of his suggestions concerning
the Levées. The Prince is quite ready to do whatever may be thought right, and the Queen wishes
Sir Robert to act upon the plan he has laid before her in his letter of yesterday. Perhaps
it would be right before making anything public to consider the question of Drawing-Rooms likewise,
which are of such importance to the trades-people of London. It would be painful for the Queen
to think that she should be the cause of disappointment and loss to this class of her subjects,
particularly at this moment of commercial stagnation. The Queen conceives that it would be
the right thing that the same principle laid down for the Levées should be followed with regard
to Drawing-Rooms, the Prince holding them for her. The Queen is anxious to have soon Sir Robert's
opinion upon this subject. The Queen on looking at the almanac finds that only the two next
weeks are available for these purposes before Easter.

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

Sir Robert Peel assures your Majesty that he does not think that there is the slightest ground
for apprehension on the occasion of the Levée, but Sir Robert Peel will, without the slightest
allusion to your Majesty's communication to him, make personal enquiries into the police arrangements,
and see that every precaution possible shall be taken.

He begs, however, humbly to assure your Majesty that there never has reached him any indication
of a hostile feeling towards the Prince. It could only proceed from some person of deranged
intellect, and he thinks it would be almost impossible for such a person to act upon it on
the occasion of a Levée.

It may tend to remove or diminish your Majesty's anxiety to know that Sir Robert Peel has walked
home every night from the House of Commons, and, notwithstanding frequent menaces and intimations
of danger, he has not met with any obstruction.

He earnestly hopes that your Majesty will dismiss from your mind any apprehension, and sincerely
believes that your Majesty may do so with entire confidence. But nothing shall be neglected.

[Pageheading: THE COMET]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 28th March 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the pleasure of receiving your kind letter of the 24th, on Sunday.
How lucky you are to have seen the comet![28] It is distinctly to be seen here, and has been
seen by many people, but we have till now looked out in vain for it. We shall, however, persevere.

We left dear Claremont with great regret, and since our return have been regaled with regular
March winds, which, however, have not kept me from my daily walks. To-day it is finer again.

It is most kind and good of dearest Albert to hold these Levées for me, which will be a great
relief for hereafter for me. Besides cela le met dans sa position; he and I must be one, so
that I can only be represented by him. I think this, therefore, a good thing for that reason
also; and God knows, he, dear angel, deserves to be the highest in everything.

Our Consecration went off extremely well, and the Chapel is delightful, and so convenient.
I am sure you will like it.

You will be glad to hear that dear old Eos (who is still at Claremont) is going on most favourably;
they attribute this sudden attack to her over-eating (she steals whenever she can get anything),
living in too warm rooms, and getting too little exercise since she was in London. Certainly
her wind was not in the slightest degree affected by her accident, for in the autumn she coursed
better than all the other young dogs, and ran and fetched pheasants, etc., from any distance,
and ran about the very evening she was taken so ill, as if nothing was the matter. Evidently
part of her lungs must be very sound still; and they say no one's lungs are quite sound. She
must be well starved, poor thing, and not allowed to sleep in beds, as she generally does.

    [Footnote 28: Its appearance gave rise to much discussion
    among astronomers. On the 17th Sir John Herschel saw its
    nucleus from Collingwood in Kent, and on the following night
    a dim nebula only; so it was probably receding with great
    velocity.]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE ON DIET]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne is delighted to find that your Majesty
was pleased with the bouquet. The daphnes are neither so numerous nor so fine as they were,
but there are still enough left to make another bouquet, which Lord Melbourne will take care
is sent up by his cart to-morrow, and left at Buckingham Palace. Lord Melbourne is very much
touched and obliged by your Majesty's very kind advice, which he will try his utmost to follow,
as he himself believes that his health entirely depends upon his keeping up his stomach in
good order and free from derangement. He owns that he is very incredulous about the unwholesomeness
of dry champagne, and he does not think that the united opinion of the whole College of Physicians
and of Surgeons would persuade him upon these points--he cannot think that a "Hohenlohe" glass
of dry champagne, i.e. half a schoppen,[29] can be prejudicial. Lord and Lady Erroll[30] and
Lord Auckland and Miss Eden are coming in the course of the week, and they would be much surprised
not to get a glass of champagne with their dinner. Lord Melbourne is very glad to learn that
the Prince's Levée did well, and feels that His Royal Highness undertaking this duty must be
a great relief and assistance to your Majesty. Lord Melbourne hopes to see the Baron here when
he comes. The spring still delays and hangs back, but it rains to-day, which Lord Melbourne
hopes will bring it on.

DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your very kind letter of the 31st, which I received on Sunday,
just as our excellent friend Stockmar made his appearance. He made us very happy by his excellent
accounts of you all, including dearest Louise, and the children he says are so grown; Leo being
nearly as tall as Louise! En revanche he will, I hope, tell you how prosperous he found us
all; and how surprised and pleased he was with the children; he also is struck with Albert
junior's likeness to his dearest papa, which everybody is struck with. Indeed, dearest Uncle,
I will venture to say that not only no Royal Ménage is to be found equal to ours, but no other
ménage is to be compared to ours, nor is any one to be compared, take him altogether, to my
dearest Angel!...

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

Sir Robert Peel will immediately make enquiry in the first instance in respect to the correctness
of the report of the dinner. The omission of the health of the Prince is certainly very strange--it
would be very unusual at any public dinner--but seems quite unaccountable at a dinner given
in connection with the interests of one of the Royal Theatres.

The toasts are generally prepared not by the chairman of the meeting, but by a committee; but
still the omission of the name of the Prince ought to have occurred at once to the Duke of
Cambridge, and there cannot be a doubt that he might have rectified, and ought to have rectified,
the omission.

Sir Robert Peel is sure your Majesty will approve of his ascertaining in the first instance
the real facts of the case--whether the report be a correct one, and if a correct one, who
are the parties by whom the arrangements in respect to the toasts were made.

This being done, Sir Robert Peel will then apply himself to the execution of your Majesty's
wishes, in the manner pointed out by your Majesty.

He begs humbly to assure your Majesty that he enters most fully into your Majesty's very natural
feelings, and that he shall always have the greatest pleasure in giving effect to your Majesty's
wishes in matters of this nature, and in proving himself worthy of the confidence your Majesty
is kindly pleased to repose in him.

Sir Robert Peel, since he addressed your Majesty, has made enquiry from Colonel Wood, the member
for Brecon, who was present at the meeting.

In order to have the real statement of the case, Sir Robert Peel did not mention the object
of the enquiry. The following were the questions and the answers:--

Q. What were the toasts at the theatrical dinner last night?

COLONEL WOOD. The first was The Queen and the Prince. The Duke said he thought he could not
give the health of the Queen in a manner more satisfactory than by coupling with the name of
Her Majesty that of her illustrious Consort.

Colonel Wood said that his impression was that the Duke meant to do that which would be most
respectful to the Prince, and that he had in his mind when he united the name of the Prince
with that of your Majesty, the circumstances of the Prince having recently held the Levée on
behalf of your Majesty.

It might perhaps have been better had His Royal Highness adhered to the usual custom, and proposed
the health of the Prince distinctly and separately, but he humbly submits to your Majesty that
the intention of His Royal Highness must have been to show respect to the Prince.

The reports of public dinners are frequently incorrect, the reporters being sometimes placed
at a great distance from the chairman.

[Pageheading: THE KING OF HANOVER]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

In consequence of his conversation yesterday morning with Baron Stockmar, Sir Robert Peel begs
to mention to your Majesty that he saw to-day a private letter from Berlin, which mentioned
that the King of Hanover had apparently abandoned the intention of visiting England this year,
but that on the receipt of some letters from England, which he suspected to be written for
the purpose of discouraging his visit, the King suddenly changed his intention and wrote a
letter to your Majesty, stating that he had thoughts of such a visit.

It was not stated from whence the letters advising the King to remain on the Continent had
proceeded.

This letter also stated that the King of Hanover proposed to waive his rank of Sovereign as
far as he possibly could on his arrival in England, and to take his seat in the House of Lords
without taking any part in the proceedings.

It added that the King could not, in any event, be in England before the latter end of May
or beginning of June, and rather hinted that as his proposed visit was more out of a spirit
of contradiction and impatience of obstacles being thrown in the way of it, than from any strong
wish on his part to come here, he might probably change his intention and defer his visit,
particularly if he should find that there was no particular impediment in the way of it.

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

The Duke's reply was, as nearly as possible, as follows:--

"Oh yes, the King will certainly come, but I can tell you privately he means to have nothing
to do with the House of Lords. He will not make his appearance there. The King has taken his
servants for six weeks--that is, engaged their attendance upon him for that time. I know the
porter is engaged and the stable servants. The King has written to Her Majesty. His real object
in coming is to arrange his private papers, which were left in confusion, and to consult Sir
Henry Halford."[31]

This was all that was material that His Royal Highness said.

    [Footnote 31: The eminent physician.]

[Pageheading: THE GATES OF SOMNAUTH]

Lord Ellenborough to Queen Victoria.

CAMP, DELHI, 19th February 1843.

... The gates of the Temple of Somnauth, which have been escorted to Delhi by five hundred
cavalry of the protected Sikh States, will be escorted from Delhi to Muttra, and thence to
Agra by the same force of cavalry, furnished by the Rajahs of Bhurtpore and Alwar.[32]

While there has been universally evinced a feeling of gratitude to the British Government for
the consideration shown to the people of Hindustan in the restoration of these trophies, there
has not occurred a single instance of apparent mortification amongst the Mussulmans. All consider
the restoration of the gates to be a national, not a religious, triumph. At no place has more
satisfaction been expressed than at Paniput, a town almost exclusively Mussulman, where there
exist the remains of the first mosque built by Sultan Mahmood after he had destroyed the city
and temples of the Hindoos....

    [Footnote 32: See ante, p. 445. (Ch. XI, 'The Gates of Somnauth')]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF THE DUKE OF SUSSEX]

Extract from the Will of his late Royal Highness the Duke of
        Sussex, dated the 11th August 1840[33] (sent at the Queen's
        request by Sir Robert Peel to the Duke of Wellington for his
        advice.)

"I desire that on my death my body may be opened, and should the examination present anything
useful or interesting to science, I empower my executors to make it public. And I desire to
be buried in the public cemetery at Kensal Green in the Parish of Harrow, in the County of
Middlesex, and not at Windsor."

    [Footnote 33: The Duke of Sussex died on 21st April of
    erysipelas. His first marriage in 1793 to Lady Augusta Murray,
    daughter of the fourth Earl of Dunmore, was declared void
    under the Royal Marriage Act. Lady Augusta died in 1830; her
    daughter married Sir Thomas Wilde, afterwards Lord Truro.

STRATHFIELDSAYE, 21st April 1843.

MY DEAR PEEL,--I have just now received your letter of this day, and I return the enclosure
in the box. It appears to me that the whole case must be considered as hanging together; that
is, the desire to be buried at Kensal Green, that of Freemasons to pay Masonic Honours,[34]
that the body of the Duchess of Inverness should be interred near to his when she dies.

Parties still alive have an interest in the attainment of the two last objects, which are quite
incompatible with the interment of a Prince of the Blood, a Knight of the Garter, in St George's
Chapel at Windsor.

The Queen's Royal Command might overrule the Duke's desire to be buried at Kensal Green.[35]
Nobody would complain of or contend against it.

But there will be no end of the complaints of interference by authority on the part of Freemasons,
and of those who will take part with the Duchess of Inverness: and it is a curious fact that
there are persons in Society who are interested in making out that she was really married to
the Duke.[36] Against this we must observe that it will be urged that the omission to insist
that the interment should take place in the Collegiate Chapel of St George's, Windsor, and
thus to set aside the will, lowers the Royal Family in the opinion of the public, and is a
concession to Radicalism. But it is my opinion that the reasons will justify that which will
be done in conformity with the will.

I confess that I don't like to decide upon cases in such haste; and I cannot consider it necessary
that a decision should be made on the course to be taken in respect to the Duke's funeral,
on the morrow of the day on which he died.

It would be desirable to know the opinion of the Lord Chancellor, the Archbishop, and others.

I can't think of anything likely to occur, which might alter me: and I'll abide by that which
I have above given.

It will be absolutely necessary to take effective measures for the preservation of the peace
at this funeral at Kensal Green: and even that the magistrates should superintend the procession
of the Freemasons. Believe me, ever yours most sincerely,

WELLINGTON.

    [Footnote 34: The Duke of Sussex being Grand Master of
    England, and Master of the Lodge of Antiquity.]

    [Footnote 35: The body lay in state at Kensington, and was
    eventually buried, as the Duke had desired, in the Kensal
    Green Cemetery.]

    [Footnote 36: See ante, p. 478, note 33 (this Ch., above). The
    marriage took place, by special licence, at Lady Cecilia's house
    in Great Cumberland Place.]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

22nd April 1843.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--I am just come back and feel very anxious to know how you are, and beg at
the same time to offer to you my most affectionate condolence on the melancholy event which
has taken again another member of our family from us. Pray do not trouble yourself with answering
this note, but let me hear how you feel, and whether you will like to see me to-morrow or at
any time most convenient to you.

I feel deeply our new loss, which recalls all the previous sad losses which we have had so
forcibly, and I pray that it may not affect you too much, dearest Victoria, and that you will
not suffer from the shock it must have been to you. I was not in the least aware of the danger
and near approach of the fatal end, and only yesterday began to feel alarmed by the accounts
which I had received.

I have been with the poor Duchess of Inverness on my way to town, and found her as composed
as possible under the sad circumstances, and full of gratitude to you and all the family for
all the kindness which she had received. I pity her very much. It must be her comfort to have
made the last years of the Duke's life happy, and to have been his comfort to the last moment.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 16th May 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Your kind and dear letter of the 12th has given me great pleasure. I am
happy to give you still better accounts of myself.[37] I have been out every day since Saturday,
and have resumed all my usual habits almost (of course resting often on the sofa, and not having
appeared in Society yet), and feel so strong and well; much better (independent of the nerves)
than I have been either time. We are most thankful for it. The King of Hanover has never said
when he will come, even now, but always threatens that he will....

Our little baby, who I really am proud of, for she is so very forward for her age, is to be
called Alice, an old English name, and the other names are to be Maud (another old English
name and the same as Matilda) and Mary, as she was born on Aunt Gloucester's birthday. The
Sponsors are to be: The King of Hanover,--Ernestus the Pious; poor Princess Sophia Matilda,[38]
and Feodore, and the christening to be on the 2nd of June. It will be delightful to see you
and dearest Louise on the 19th of June, God willing.

Are there any news of Joinville's proceedings at Rio?[39] Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 37: Princess Alice was born on 25th April.]

    [Footnote 38: Princess Sophia Matilda of Gloucester.]

    [Footnote 39: He married Princess Francesca, sister of the
    Emperor of the Brazils and of Queen Donna Maria.]

[Pageheading: CHRISTENING OF PRINCESS ALICE]

The Earl of Ripon to Queen Victoria.

INDIA BOARD, 5th June 1843.

Lord Ripon, with his humble duty to your Majesty, begs to inform your Majesty that despatches
have been this day received at the India House from the Governor-General of India and from
the Governor of Bombay, announcing the successful issue of a battle, on the 24th of March,
between Sir Charles Napier and Meer Shere Mahommed.[40] The forces of the latter were completely
routed, with the loss of all the guns and several standards.

RIPON.

    [Footnote 40: Sir Charles Napier, who was in command in
    Scinde, defeated the army of the Ameers of Upper and Lower
    Scinde at Meeanee on 17th February, and on the 20th took
    Hyderabad. On the 24th March he attacked the enemy, who were
    posted in a strong position on the banks of a tributary of the
    Indus, and obtained a decisive victory.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 6th June 1843.

DEAREST UNCLE,--I received your kind letter on Sunday, and thank you much for it. I am sorry
that you could not take the children to Ardenne, as nothing is so good for children as very
frequent change of air, and think you do not let the children do so often enough. Ours do so
continually, and are so movable that it gives us no trouble whatever.

Our christening went off very brilliantly, and I wish you could have witnessed it; nothing
could be more anständig, and little Alice behaved extremely well. The déjeuner was served in
the Gallery, as at dear Pussy's christening, and there being a profusion of flowers on the
table, etc., had a beautiful effect.

The King of Hanover arrived just in time to be too late. He is grown very old and excessively
thin, and bends a good deal. He is very gracious, for him. Pussy and Bertie (as we call the
boy) were not at all afraid of him, fortunately; they appeared after the déjeuner on Friday,
and I wish you could have seen them; they behaved so beautifully before that great number of
people, and I must say looked very dear, all in white, and very distingués; they were much admired.

We came here on Saturday. The news from Ireland continue to be very alarming. Hoping to hear
soon, for certain, when you come, believe me, ever, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I hope you will kindly answer my letter of last Tuesday.

[Pageheading: IRISH AFFAIRS]

Sir Thomas Fremantle[41] to Sir Robert Peel.[42]

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 9th June (1843).

MY DEAR SIR ROBERT,--The King of Hanover took his seat at twenty minutes past four. He is now
on the Woolsack with the Lord Chancellor, the Duke of Wellington, and Lord Strangford; no other
Peers are in the House, the time of meeting being five o'clock.

It was not necessary that any other Peers should introduce His Majesty. He merely produced
his writ of summons, and went to the table to be sworn. I remain, yours sincerely,

THOMAS FREMANTLE.

    [Footnote 41: One of the Secretaries of the Treasury:
    afterwards Lord Cottesloe.]

    [Footnote 42: Forwarded to the Queen by Sir Robert Peel.]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

WHITEHALL, 11th June 1843.

(Sunday.)

SIR,--In consequence of the conversation which I had with your Royal Highness on Thursday last
on the subject of Ireland, I beg to mention to your Royal Highness that the Cabinet met again
to-day at Lord Aberdeen's house.

We had a very long discussion.

The prevailing opinion was that if legislation were proposed,[43] that legislation should be
as effectual as possible; that there would be no advantage in seeking for new powers unless
these powers were commensurate with the full extent of the mischief to be apprehended.

Foreseeing, however, all the difficulties of procuring such powers, and the increased excitement
which must follow the demand for them, we were unwilling to come to an immediate decision in
favour of recommending new legislation, and resolved therefore to watch the course of events
for some time longer, continuing precautionary measures against disturbances of the public peace.

I have not received any material information from Ireland by the post of this day, nor has
Sir James Graham.

SOUTH STREET, 22nd June 1843.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He was infinitely obliged to your
Majesty for coming into the room the other evening when he was with the Prince, and very much
delighted to have an opportunity of seeing your Majesty, especially in such good health and
spirits.

Lord Melbourne is very glad that your Majesty has seen As you Like It. It is indeed a most
gay, lively, and beautiful play. To see or to read it is quite like passing an hour or two
in a forest of fairyland. It is so lively, and at the same time so romantic. All depends upon
Rosalind, which was an excellent part of Mrs. Jordan. Jaques is also a very particular character
and difficult to play.

Lord Melbourne feels himself better, but still weak. He does not like to say much about politics,
but he cannot refrain from observing that they seem to him to have permitted these lawless
riotings in South Wales[44] to go on with success and impunity a great deal too long. When
such things begin nobody can say how far they will go or how much they will spread. There are
many who expect and predict a general rising against property, and this is invariably the way
in which such things begin.

    [Footnote 44: The agitation against the turnpike system which
    had broken out in South Wales. See Introductory Note, p.
    450. (to Ch. XII)]

Queen Victoria to Sir James Graham.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 23rd June 1843.

The Queen returns these communications to Sir James Graham, which are of a very unpleasant
nature. The Queen trusts that measures of the greatest severity will be taken, as well to suppress
the revolutionary spirit as to bring the culprits[45] to immediate trial and punishment. The
Queen thinks this of the greatest importance with respect to the effect it may have in Ireland,
likewise as proving that the Government is willing to show great forbearance, and to trust
to the good sense of the people; but that if outrages are committed and it is called upon to
act, it is not to be trifled with, but will visit wrong-doers with the utmost severity.

    [Footnote 45: I.e., the Rebecca rioters.]

[Pageheading: MILITARY MEDALS]

Queen Victoria to Lord Stanley.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 24th June 1843.

The Queen follows Lord Stanley's recommendation to confer the G.C.B. on Sir Charles Napier
with great pleasure, from her high opinion of his late achievements, and she thinks it might
be advisable that some of the officers who most contributed to the victories of Meeanee and
Hyderabad[46] should receive lower grades of the Bath. The Queen is much impressed with the
propriety of a medal being given to the troops who fought under Sir Charles Napier, as the
armies under Nott, Pollock, and Sale received such distinctions for actions hardly equal to
those in Scinde.

    [Footnote 46: See ante, p. 481. (Ch. XII, 5th June, 1843)]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 24th June 1843. The Earl of Cawdor went to Carmarthen this morning.[47]

Every effort will be made to trace this lawless outbreak to its source, and to bring the principal
offenders to justice.

Sir James Graham encloses two Police Reports, which have been received this morning from Dublin.
They would seem to indicate some foreign interference, and some hope of foreign assistance
mingled with this domestic strife. Several Frenchmen have lately made their appearance in different
parts of Ireland.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 24th June 1843.

MY DEAR DUCHESS,--The same right which you feel, and which you had to overcome before you took
the final step of tendering your resignation,[48] has kept me from sooner acknowledging the
receipt of your letter. Under the circumstances which you allude to, it is incumbent upon me
to accept of your resignation, but as you throw out yourself a hint that it would be agreeable
to you sometimes to perform the duties (which you have hitherto fulfilled), it would give me
the greatest gratification if you would let me continue your name on the list of my Ladies
of the Bedchamber, and sometimes at your convenience have the pleasure of your society.

I agree with you that for the present your step should not be known, till I shall have had
time to find a successor, and I am pleased to think that you will take your waitings, which
are at present settled.

With the Prince's kind regards to yourself, and mine to the Duke, believe me, always, yours
very affectionately,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 48: Of her position as Bedchamber Woman.]

[Pageheading: DUELLING IN THE ARMY]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington.

(July 1843.)

The Queen having attentively perused the proposed General Order for the more efficient repression
of the practice of duelling in the Army, approves of the same, but recommends that the Duke
of Wellington should submit to the Cabinet the propriety of considering of a general measure
applicable to all branches of the Naval and Military Service.[49]

    [Footnote 49: An influential anti-duelling association had
    been formed this year, and subsequently public attention was
    drawn to the question by a duel on 1st July, at Camden Town,
    in which Colonel Fawcett was shot by his brother-in-law,
    Lieutenant Munro, who had reluctantly gone out, after enduring
    much provocation. Mainly owing to Prince Albert's efforts,
    the Articles of War were so amended as to put a stop to the
    practice.]

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGE]

The Prince Albert to Lord Aberdeen.

20th July 1843.

MY DEAR LORD ABERDEEN,--The Queen and myself have been taken much by surprise by Lord Howard
de Walden's despatch marked "most confidential." The opinions of the Portuguese Court must
have entirely changed. Although we have not heard anything on the subject, we are fully convinced
of the correctness of Lord Howard's statements and of his conjectures. We are both pleased
to see the view which he takes, and the good opinion he has of our little cousin. The Queen
thinks it right that you should inform Lord Howard that the possibility of a marriage between
Prince Leopold[50] and the Queen of Spain has been for some time a favourite thought of hers
and mine, and that you thought that this combination had some advantages which hardly any other
could offer. But that the matter had been and was treated here as one purely and solely Spanish,
in which we carefully abstained from interfering with, and that we leave it to work itself
out or not by its own merit.

That you wished him to take the same view, but not to lose sight of it, and to report to you
whatever he might hear bearing upon the subject. Believe me, etc.,

ALBERT. See ante, p. 378, and
    post, p. 486. (Ch. XI, Footnote 11; Ch. XII, 'The Spanish Marriage')]

Queen Victoria to the Duchess of Norfolk.

DEAR DUCHESS,--I write to inform you that I have named your successor,[51] who is to be Lady
Douro.[52] The great regret I experience at your leaving me is certainly diminished by the
arrangement which we have agreed upon together, and which will still afford me the pleasure
of having you occasionally about me. I trust that the Duke's health will admit of your taking
your waiting in September, but think it right to tell you that we shall probably at that time
be making some aquatic excursions in our new yacht, and consequently be from home the greater
part of your waiting.

With the Prince's best regards to yourself, and mine to the Duke, believe me, always, yours
very affectionately,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 51: As Bedchamber Woman.]

    [Footnote 52: Elizabeth, daughter of the eighth Marquis of
    Tweeddale, afterwards Duchess of Wellington. She died in
    1904.]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd August 1843.

The Queen returns the enclosed papers, and gives her sanction to the bringing in of the Bill
for Enrolling and Arming the Out-Pensioners of Chelsea Hospital with great pleasure, as she
thinks it a very good measure at the present crisis, calculated to relieve the troops which
are rather overworked, and to secure a valuable force to the service of the Government. The
Queen hopes that in bringing in the Bill Sir Robert Peel will make as little of it as possible,
in order not to make it appear a larger measure than it is.

The Regulations strike the Queen as very judicious, and she has little doubt that they will
raise the military spirit in the Pensioners, and will make the measure popular with them, which
cannot fail to attach them more to the Crown.

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 13th August 1843.

The Queen is desirous that whatever is right should be done, but is strongly of opinion that
the King of Hanover's threat (for as such it must be regarded) not to leave this country till
the affair[53] is decided upon, should in no way influence the transaction, as it is quite
immaterial whether the King stays longer here or not.

    [Footnote 53: Of the Crown jewels; ante, p. 439.
      (Ch. XI, 'Crown Jewels')]

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGE]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 13th August 1843.

The Queen sees with great regret, in Sir Robert Gordon's despatch of 4th August, that Prince
Metternich has resumed his favourite scheme of a marriage between the Queen of Spain and a
son of Don Carlos, and that King Louis Philippe has almost come to a secret understanding with
him upon that point.[54] The Queen is as much as ever convinced that instead of tending to
pacify Spain this combination cannot fail to call new principles of discord into action, to
excite the hopes of a lost and vanquished party for revenge and reacquisition of power, and
to carry the civil war into the very interior of the family. The Queen is anxious (should Lord
Aberdeen coincide in this view of the subject, as she believes he does) that it should be clearly
understood by Sir Robert Gordon, and Prince Metternich.

    [Footnote 54: Since the Quadruple Alliance (of England,
    France, Spain, and Portugal) in 1834 to expel Don Carlos and
    Dom Miguel from the Peninsula, the question of the marriage
    of Queen Isabella (then aged four) had been a subject
    of incessant consideration by England and France. The
    Queen-Mother had suggested to Louis Philippe the marriages of
    the Queen to the Duc d'Aumale and of the Infanta (her sister)
    to the Duc de Montpensier: such a proposal, however gratifying
    to the French King's ambition, would naturally not have been
    favourably viewed in England; but Guizot promoted warmly the
    alternative project of a marriage of the Queen to her cousin
    Don Francisco de Asis, Duke of Cadiz, son of Don Francisco de
    Paula, the Infanta being still to marry Montpensier. It was
    believed that, if this marriage of the Queen took place, there
    would be no issue of it, and Louis Philippe's ambition would
    be ultimately gratified. To Palmerston's protest against this
    scheme (before the Melbourne Ministry fell), Guizot replied,
    "La Reine aura des enfants et ne mourra pas." The other
    possible candidates for the Queen's hand from the French point
    of view were Count Montemolin, the son of Don Carlos, the
    Count de Trapani, son of Francis I., King of the Two Sicilies,
    and thus brother of Queen Christina, and the Duke of Seville,
    a brother of the Duke of Cadiz. Other candidates also favoured
    by the Queen-Mother were (while he was unmarried) Prince
    Albert's brother, and his cousin Leopold, brother of the King
    of Portugal; but the French King was bent upon a marriage
    of the Queen with some descendant of Philip V., and equally
    determined to prevent the Infanta's marriage either with
    Leopold or any other Prince not a descendant of Philip V. The
    view of Prince Albert and of Lord Aberdeen was that it was a
    matter for the young Queen herself and the Spanish people. See
    ante, p. 485. (Ch. XII, 20th July, 1843)]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 13th August 1843.

Lord Aberdeen, with his most humble duty, begs to assure your Majesty that he will not fail
to give his best attention to your Majesty's communication respecting the marriage of the Queen
of Spain.

In a recent despatch to Sir Robert Gordon, Lord Aberdeen has repeated the opinion entertained
by your Majesty's Government, that the marriage of the Queen with the son of Don Carlos, instead
of leading to the conciliation and unison of parties, would be more likely to produce collision
and strife, and to increase the existing animosity between the different political factions
by which Spain is distracted.

This marriage, however, has always been a favourite project with Austria and the Northern Courts;
and it has also been apparently supported by the French Government. It cannot be denied that
at first sight there are many considerations by which it may seem to be recommended; but the
weight of these can only be duly estimated by the authorities and people of Spain.

The same may be said respecting the marriage of the Queen with any other Spanish Prince, a
descendant of Philip V. which, in the opinion of many, would be most agreeable to the feelings
and prejudices of the nation. To this project also it appears that the French Government have
recently assented.

Lord Aberdeen humbly thinks that the interests of this country and of all Europe are deeply
concerned in the exclusion of a French Prince from the possibility of receiving the hand of
the Queen; and that it would not be a wise policy to oppose any marriage by which this should
be effected, consistently with the free choice of the Queen, and the sanction of the Spanish
Government and people. The avowed predilections of Queen Christina, and her increased means
of influence recently acquired, render this a matter of considerable anxiety and importance
at the present moment.

[Pageheading: PARLIAMENTARY OBSTRUCTION]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 16th August 1843.

The Queen cannot refrain from writing a line to express her indignation at the very unjustifiable
manner in which the minority of thirteen members obstructs the progress of business.[55] She
hopes that every attempt will be made to put an end to what is really indecent conduct. Indeed,
how is business to go on at all if such vexatious opposition prevails? At all events, the Queen
hopes that Sir Robert will make no kind of concession to these gentlemen, which [could] encourage
them to go on in the same way.

The Queen forgot to say this morning that she thinks it would be better that the Investiture
of the Thistle should be put off for the present.

    [Footnote 55: By opposition to the Bill removing doubts as to
    the admission of Ministers in Scotland.]

Queen Victoria to Sir James Graham.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 22nd August 1843.

The Queen returns these papers to Sir J. Graham, and thinks that this important Memorial[56]
should not be decided on without the opinion of the House of Lords; the Queen trusts that everything
will be done to secure inviolate the maintenance of the Marriage Act.

    [Footnote 56: The memorial was that of Sir Augustus d'Este
    (1794-1848), the son of the union of the Duke of Sussex and
    Lady Augusta Murray. On 4th April 1793 they were married at
    Rome by an English clergyman, the ceremony being repeated in
    the same year at St George's, Hanover Square. The Court of
    Arches annulled the marriage in 1794, but Sir Augustus now
    preferred a claim to the peerage. Ultimately the Lords, after
    consulting the judges, disallowed it.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne is much pleased that your Majesty is glad
of Wilhelmina Stanhope's marriage,[57] and was very glad to hear that your Majesty had congratulated
her and Lady Stanhope upon it, which was very kind, and gave much satisfaction. Lord Dalmeny
is an excellent young man, and altogether it is an event much to be rejoiced at, especially
as it has been so long delayed, and fears began to be entertained that it would never happen.
The Duke and Duchess of Sutherland seem also much pleased with Evelyn's[58] marriage. She is
a beautiful girl, and a very nice person in every respect, and everybody must wish her happy.
Lord Melbourne has been at Panshanger for two or three days with Uxbridge and Lady Uxbridge,
Ella, and Constance. Uxbridge is having continual cricket matches as he used to have, which
is a very good thing, making the country gay, and pleasing the people.

Matrimonial affairs, Lord Melbourne is afraid, remain in statu quo.

Lord Melbourne was very glad to hear from Anson yesterday and to learn that he thinks himself
getting better. Lord Liverpool had given Lord Melbourne a very poor account of him. Lord Melbourne
hopes that your Majesty may have a pleasant tour, but he cannot refrain from earnestly recommending
your Majesty to take care about landing and embarking, and not to do it in dangerous places
and on awkward coasts. Lord Melbourne is going the day after to-morrow with Lord and Lady Beauvale
to Brocket Hall, and from thence on the 29th to Melbourne, to stay about three weeks or a month.

Lord Melbourne congratulates your Majesty upon the near approaching termination of the Session
of Parliament, which is always a relief to all parties. Some great measures have been passed.
Lord Melbourne wishes your Majesty health and happiness, and begs to be respectfully remembered
to the Prince.

    [Footnote 57: To Lord Dalmeny. En secondes noces, she
    married the fourth Duke of Cleveland.]

    [Footnote 58: Lady Evelyn Leveson Gower, married, on 4th
    October, to Charles, Lord Blantyre.]

[Pageheading: VISIT TO THE CHÂTEAU D'EU]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CHÂTEAU D'EU, 4th September 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I write to you from this dear place, where we are in the midst of this admirable
and truly amiable family, and where we feel quite at home, and as if we were one of them. Our
reception by the dear King and Queen has been most kind, and by the people really gratifying.[59]
Everything is very different to England, particularly the population. Louise has told you all
about our doings, and therefore tell you nothing but that I am highly interested and amused.
Little Chica (Mdme. Hadjy)[60] is a charming, sprightly, lively creature, with immense brown
eyes. We leave this the day after to-morrow for Brighton, where the children are, who are extremely
well, I hear. Many thanks, dearest Uncle, for your kind letter of the 29th, by which I see
that poor Prince Löwenstein[61] came to see you; he is Mamma's old friend. As I am in a great
hurry, and as I hope, God willing, to see you very soon, I must conclude in haste, and leave
all my remarks for another day. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Pray forgive this confused and horrid scrawl.

    [Footnote 59: The Queen was enthusiastically received at
    Tréport. On the 2nd there was a great entertainment in
    the banqueting-room of the Château, and on the 4th a fête
    champêtre on the Mont d'Orléans in the forest. On the 5th
    there was a review, and on the 7th the Queen returned to
    England.]

    [Footnote 60: The Princess of Joinville. See ante, p. 451.
    (Ch. XII, 10th January, 1843).
    Hadjy is the Prince of Joinville.]

    [Footnote 61: Prince William of Löwenstein (1783-1847).]

[Pageheading: THE FRENCH VISIT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. We have been quite dismayed and overwhelmed with the
melancholy intelligence of death after death which has followed us. I was much concerned for
poor Charles Howard's loss, but we were quite struck down by the melancholy event of poor Mrs
W. Cowper.[62] She promised to suit us all well, my sister particularly, and to be a great
source of happiness and comfort.

Your Majesty is quite right in supposing that Lord Melbourne would at once attribute your Majesty's
visit to the Château d'Eu to its right cause--your Majesty's friendship and affection for the
French Royal Family, and not to any political object. The principal motive now is to take care
that it does not get mixed either in reality or in appearance with politics, and Lord Melbourne
cannot conceal from your Majesty that he should lament it much if the result of the visit should
turn out to be a treaty upon any European matter, unfavourable to England and favourable to
France. Do not let them make any treaty or agreement there. It can be done elsewhere just as
well, and without any of the suspicion which is sure to attach to any transaction which takes
place there.

    [Footnote 62: Mr and Mrs William Cowper had only been married
    on 24th June.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 8th September 1843.

MY DEAREST AND MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--I have been highly gratified that you found a moment
to write me such a dear letter. I am sure that the personal contact with the family at Eu would
interest you, and at the same time remove some impressions on the subject of the King, which
are really untrue. Particularly the attempt of representing him like the most astute of men,
calculating constantly everything to deceive people.

His vivacity alone would render such a system extremely difficult, and if he appears occasionally
to speak too much and to seem to hold a different language to different people, it is a good
deal owing to his vivacity and his anxiety to carry conviction to people's mind.

The impression of your visit will besides do wonders in removing the silly irritation which
had been got up since 1840, and which might have in the end occasioned serious mischief, and
that without being in the least called for, the passions of nations become very inconvenient
sometimes for their Governors.... Your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

My best love to dearest Albert; he seems to have had the greatest success, and I am very glad
of it, as it had some time ago been the fashion to invent all sorts of nonsense.

I left Stockmar extremely hypochondriacal, but I trust not so unwell as he fancied. His son
accompanies him to Coburg.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S RETURN]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

ON BOARD THE Victoria and Albert, IN THE RIVER,[63]

21st September 1843.

MY DEARLY BELOVED UNCLE,--I seize the first opportunity of informing you of our excellent passage;
we shall be in half-an-hour or three-quarters at Woolwich; it is now half-past ten A.M. The
day and night were beautiful, and it is again, very fine to-day. We anchored in Margate Roads
at eleven last night, and set off again about five.

Let me thank you and my beloved Louise in both our names again for your great kindness to us,
which, believe me, we feel deeply. We were so happy with you, and the stay was so delightful,
but so painfully short! It was such a joy for me to be once again under the roof of one who
has ever been a father to me! I was very sad after you left us; it seems so strange that all
should be over--but the delightful souvenir will ever remain. To leave my dearest Louise too
was so painful--and also poor Aunt Julia,[64] so immediately after making her acquaintance;
pray tell her that, for me. I shall write to Louise to-morrow. You must forgive my hand being
so trembling, but we are lighter than usual, which causes the tremulous motion to be so much
more felt.

That God may bless and protect you all always is our fervent prayer. Believe me, always, your
devoted and grateful Niece and Child,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 63: On the 12th the Queen and Prince Albert sailed
    from Brighton on a visit to King Leopold.

The Queen has received Sir James Graham's letter of the 22nd.[65] She has long seen with deep
concern the lamentable state of turbulence in South Wales, and has repeatedly urged the necessity
of its being put an end to, by vigorous efforts on the part of the Government. The Queen, therefore,
willingly gives her sanction to the issuing of a special Commission for the trial of the offenders
and to the issuing of a proclamation. Monday, the 2nd, being the earliest day at which, Sir
James says, the necessary Council could be held, will suit the Queen very well; she begs, therefore,
that Sir James will cause the Council to meet here on that day at three o'clock.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I cannot sufficiently thank you for your two most kind and affectionate
letters of the 22nd and 23rd, which gave me the greatest pleasure. How often we think of our
dear and delightful visit it is impossible for me to say; indeed, I fear these two never-to-be-forgotten
voyages and visits have made me think Windsor and its daily occurrences very dull. But this
is very ungrateful for what I have had, which is so much more than I ever dared to hope for.
The weather is become colder, and yesterday and the day before were horrid, foggy, raw days;
to-day it is finer again....

Feodore and Ernest came to us yesterday, and I find them both very well; Feodore is, I think,
grown more serious than she was....

You remember that when we were together we talked of who Aumale could marry; he will only marry
a Catholic, and no Spaniard, no Neapolitan, no Austrian, and also no Brazilian, as Louise tells
me. Why should not Princess Alexandrine of Bavaria do? It would be a good connection, and you
say (though not as pretty as Princess Hildegarde) that she is not ill-looking. Qu'en pensez-vous?
Then for Tatane[66]--a Princess of Saxony would be extremely passlich.

How long does Aunt Julia stay with you?

Albert, I suppose, writes to you, and I, dearest Uncle, remain ever and ever, your most truly
devoted and warmly attached Niece,

VICTORIA R.

We find Pussy amazingly advanced in intellect, but alas! also in naughtiness. I hold up Charlotte
as an example of every virtue, which has its effect; for when she is going to be naughty she
says: "Dear Ma, what does cousin Charlotte do?"

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many, many thanks for your kind letter of the 28th, received on Sunday,
which was written from the Camp of Beverloo, which Albert recollects with great pleasure and
interest, having amused himself so much there.

I can give you excellent accounts of ourselves. The boy returned from Brighton yesterday, looking
really the picture of health, and much embelli; Pussy is in great force, but not to be compared
to Charlotte in beauty; and Fatima (alias Alice) is as enormous and flourishing as ever. Dearest
Louise seems much pleased with Aunt Julia, which I am glad of, and I rejoice that poor Aunt
has had the happiness of making my beloved Louise's acquaintance, for it will be a happy recollection
for her in her solitude.

We expect the Grand Duke Michael here this afternoon; he is to stay till Friday. The Michael
Woronzows,[67] with a son and daughter, are also coming, and we shall be a large party, and
are going to dine in the Waterloo Gallery, which makes a very handsome dining-room, and sit
after dinner in that beautiful grand Reception Room. How I envy your going to that dear French
family! I hope that you will like my favourite Chica. I trust, however, that you will not stay
too long away for your good people's sake.

Not being quite sure of your going, I shall direct this to Brussels still.

We went this morning to Kew, visited the old Palace--which is not at all a bad house--the Botanical
Gardens, and then my Aunt's.[68]

The Revolution at Athens[69] looks like le commencement de la fin; it was very unanimous.

Now, dearest Uncle, adieu! Ever, your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 67: Prince Michael Woronzow (1782-1856) was a
    plenipotentiary at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle (1818), and
    was in command at the siege of Varna in 1828.]

    [Footnote 68: The Duchess of Cambridge.]

    [Footnote 69: A bloodless revolution had taken place on
    the 14th of September, partly in consequence of King Otho
    exercising his patronage in favour of Bavarians rather than
    Greeks. He now acceded to the popular demands.]

[Pageheading: THE DUC DE BORDEAUX]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 9th October 1843.

The Queen has received Lord Aberdeen's two letters. She has been reflecting upon his proposition
that Mr Lytton Bulwer[70] should be appointed Minister at Madrid, and quite approves it. The
Queen trusts that he will try and keep on the best terms with the French Minister there, and
that without in any way weakening our interests, the representatives of these two powerful
countries will act together. The Queen feels certain that if it is known by our respective
Ministers that both Governments wish to act together, and not against one another, that much
irritation will be avoided; and that our agents, particularly in distant countries, will understand
that they are not fulfilling the wishes of their Sovereign by representing every little incident
in the most unfavourable light....

The Queen hopes that Lord Aberdeen will take some early opportunity of employing Mr Aston.
Who will replace Mr Bulwer at Paris? his successor ought to be an efficient man, as Lord Cowley[71]
is rather infirm. The Queen regrets to say that the Duc de Bordeaux[72] is coming here; he
really must not be received by the Queen, as she fears his reception at Berlin has done no
good; and altogether, from what she sees in the papers, she fears there is no good purpose
in his coming here.

    [Footnote 70: Afterwards Lord Dalling.]

    [Footnote 71: Lord Cowley, brother of the Duke of Wellington,
    and one of four brothers all either raised in or promoted to
    the peerage, was now seventy years of age. In after-years his
    son was also Ambassador at Paris.]

    [Footnote 72: Afterwards known as Comte de Chambord, and
    claiming the French throne as Henri V.: he was grandson of
    Charles X., and at this time about twenty-three years of age.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 13th October 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--It is not my day, but my object in writing is to speak to you about the
dear Nemours' visit, which we are so anxious to see accomplished. Louise writes to me about
the Duke of Bordeaux coming to England making some difficulty, and I wish therefore to state
what we know of the affair. We understand (for of course we have had no direct communication)
that the Duc de Bordeaux has embarked at Hamburg for Hull, and intends travelling in Scotland
before he visits England, and that incognito and under the name of Comte tel et tel; his being
in Scotland when Nemours is in England, and particularly on a visit to us here, could make
no difficulty, and even if he were travelling about incognito in England, it could not signify,
I think. Moreover, I feel certain that if he knew that I had invited the Nemours and that they
were coming over shortly, he would go away, as the Legitimists would not be pleased at Nemours
being fêted by me--while their Henry V. was not even noticed or received. I could easily, and
indeed have almost done so, make it known generally that I expect the Nemours, and I would
say immediately, and he would be sure to get out of the way. I cannot tell you how very anxious
we are to see the Nemours; I have been thinking of nothing else, and to lose this great pleasure
would be too mortifying. Moreover, as I really and truly do not think it need be, it would
be best if the Nemours could come before the 10th of November; which is the latest term when
they could come? Now pray, dearest Uncle, do settle this for me; you have no notion how we
wish it. I will be sure to let you know what I hear, and if there is anything you could suggest
about this, I need not say but that we shall attend to it with pleasure. The Grand Duke Michael
will be gone by the end of this month. Ainsi je mets cette chère visite dans vos mains. Ever
your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Pray, dearest Uncle, let me have an answer by the next post about this, as I am all in a fidget
about it.

[Pageheading: ARREST OF O'CONNELL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 17th October 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Your kind letter of the 13th I received yesterday, and return you my warmest
thanks for it....

By your letter, and by one I received from Victoire yesterday morning, I see every reason to
hope that we shall see the dear Nemours, for there will be no difficulty to prevent that poor
stupid Duc de Bordeaux from being in London at the time. He is to be informed indirectly that
the Nemours are coming at the beginning of next month on a visit to us, in consequence of a
pressing invitation of ours; this alone will keep him off, as the contrast would be disagreeable
to the Legitimists. Independent of this, his disembarkation at Hull, and proceeding at once
to Scotland, seems to indicate his wish to be in private.

The great event of the day is O'Connell's arrest;[73] they have found bail, but the trial will
shortly commence. The case against him is very strong, the lawyers say.

Everything is perfectly quiet at Dublin. You will have seen how O'Connell has abused the King;
it is all because our visit to Eu has put an end to any hopes of assistance from France, which
he pretended there would be, and he now declares for the Duc de Bordeaux!...

You must encourage the dear King and Queen to send over some of the dear family often to us;
ils seront reçus a bras ouverts....

We intend to take advantage of Feodore and Ernest's going to the Queen Dowager's to pay a visit
to Cambridge, where we have never been; we mean to set off to-morrow week, to sleep at Trinity
Lodge that night, and the two following nights at Lord Hardwicke's,[74] which is close to Cambridge.
These journeys are very popular, and please and interest Albert very much.... Believe me, always,
my dearest Uncle, your very affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 73: After the official prohibition on 7th October
    of the intended Clontarf meeting, O'Connell and others
    were arrested in Dublin for conspiracy. After giving bail,
    O'Connell issued an address to the Irish people. The trial was
    postponed till the following year.]

    [Footnote 74: Wimpole, near Royston, nine miles from
    Cambridge.]

[Pageheading: THE DUC DE BORDEAUX]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

DRAYTON MANOR, 20th October 1843.

SIR,--The enclosed letter[75] from Sir James Graham to me (which as your Royal Highness will
perceive is entirely of a private character) contains details of a conversation with Baron
Neumann which will, I think, be interesting to Her Majesty and to your Royal Highness; and
knowing your Royal Highness will consider the communication a confidential one, I prefer sending
the letter in extenso to the making of any extracts from it.

I am afraid there is more in the Duc de Bordeaux's visit than the mere gratification of a desire
on his part to see again places with which he was familiar in his youth.

If, however, he should be so ill-advised as to make any political demonstration, or to ally
himself with any particular party in this country, he would, in my opinion, derive little from
it, and there would be the opportunity of giving to the King of the French a new proof of our
fidelity to our engagements, and of the steadiness of our friendship towards him and his dynasty.

The great body of the French people would comprehend the object of any such demonstrations
on the part of the Duc de Bordeaux, and would, it is to be hoped, see in them an additional
motive for union in support of the King, and confidence in the honour and integrity of this
country.

I will not fail to inform the Grand Duke of Her Majesty's intended visit to Cambridge, and
to suggest to him that it will not be convenient to the Queen to receive him at Windsor before
Saturday at the earliest, and probably Monday.

On the day after I spoke to your Royal Highness I gave instructions for enquiries to be made
respecting the two properties in the Isle of Wight.[76] It is necessary to make such enquiries
through some very confidential channel, as a suspicion of the object of them would probably
greatly enhance the price.

The party on whom I could entirely rely was out of town, but will return to-morrow, and will
immediately find out what he can respecting the properties.

The result shall be made known to the Queen and your Royal Highness without delay. The purchase
of Osborne resulted.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S DECISION]

The Prince Albert to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 21st October 1843.

MY DEAR SIR ROBERT,--I return you Sir James Graham's letter. There is a pretty general impression
of the Duc de Bordeaux's visit being a got-up thing for various political intrigues. I confess
I do not understand the link with Ireland, or at least the importance of his being well received
by the Roman Catholics, but am strongly impressed that his presence whether in Scotland, England,
or Ireland is for no good, and therefore think it our duty that we should render it difficult
for him to protract it. The Queen and myself think that the uncertainty of his being received
at Court or not is doing harm, and would much wish, therefore, that it was decidedly stated
that the Queen will not receive him. His coming here without ever asking (indeed knowing that
it was disliked), as well as the part which Austria and Prussia seem to have taken in the matter,
do not strengthen his claim for such a favour. No good can come from the reception, and the
King of the French must prefer its not taking place. Let us, therefore, settle that point,
and show that we are neither afraid of him nor prepared to be made dupes of.

The Queen is desirous that no official person should treat the Duke with a distinction which
is likely to attract unnecessary attention. Believe me, always yours truly,

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: THE DUC DE NEMOURS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 24th October 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the happiness of receiving your most kind letter of the 20th yesterday,
for which I thank you very much. The good news of the dear Nemours coming is a great happiness
to us, and I fervently hope and trust that the Duc de Bordeaux will be kept off, which I fully
expect he will. Suppose, however, he could not be, and the Nemours could not come then, would
the King not kindly allow them to come later? Even if the Chambers were to be sitting--such
a little Ausflug of ten days only could really not be a great inconvenience? Surely if you
were to mention this to the dear King, with my affectionate respects, he would grant it. It
is besides only in case Bordeaux should come to London, which I really think he will not, if
he once knows that the Nemours are coming. And I must add that I think Nemours not coming at
all this year, after it had been announced, would have a bad effect, particularly as people
here think that some great Powers have instigated Bordeaux's coming here,--and even think that
the Roman Catholics and Repealers in Ireland mean to make use of him. Consequently Nemours
not coming at all, should he be prevented from coming at the beginning of November, would not
be a good thing politically, independent of the extreme disappointment it would cause us....

The accounts both you and Louise gave me of good Hadjy and Chica give me great pleasure, as
I take a lively interest in both, and am very fond of them. We found amongst some very curious
old miniatures several of Catherine of Braganza when young (Charles II.'s wife), which are
so like Chica;[77] it is curious how sometimes you can trace likenesses many generations back....

Pray offer our respects to all. How long do you stay? Ever your devoted niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 77: The Princess de Joinville was a sister of Queen
    Maria II. of Portugal, and Queen Catherine of Braganza was
    daughter of King John IV.]

[Pageheading: THE DUC DE BORDEAUX]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

DRUMLANRIG, 27th October 1843.

Lord Aberdeen, with his humble duty, begs to lay before your Majesty another letter received
last night from Lord Morton,[78] which gives an account of the visit of the Duc de Bordeaux,
and of his further communication with the Duc de Lévis on the projects and views of His Royal
Highness.

Lord Aberdeen has ventured to submit this letter to your Majesty, although not intended for
your Majesty's perusal, as it gives a pleasing and satisfactory description of the conduct
and sentiments of this unfortunate Prince.

In order to explain to your Majesty how Lord Morton, who lives in a very retired manner, should
have received a visit from the Duc de Bordeaux, Lord Aberdeen begs to mention that when the
family of Charles X. resided at Edinburgh, after the Revolution of July 1830, they received
information more than once, from the present Royal Family of France, that certain desperate
characters had left Paris for Edinburgh, with the intention of assassinating the Duc de Bordeaux,
in order to prevent all possibility of a Restoration. In consequence of this information, it
was thought to be dangerous for the Prince to walk or to expose himself in the neighbourhood
of Holyrood House. He was frequently driven in a carriage to Lord Morton's,[79] where he remained
for a few hours, taking exercise in the park, and playing with Lord Morton's children. It is
the recollection of this which has led the Prince to make his acknowledgments on the present
occasion.

Lord Aberdeen also begs humbly to mention to your Majesty that on his arrival here he found
the Duke and Duchess of Buccleuch in expectation of a visit from the Duc de Bordeaux, on his
way from Glasgow to Carlisle. Lord Aberdeen informed the Duke and Duchess of the objections
which might exist to this visit; but he believes that communications on the subject had already
gone too far to render it possible to break it off with any degree of propriety. The great
attentions paid by the Duke and his predecessors to the French Royal Family, both during the
former and last emigration, sufficient account for this desire on the part of the Prince.

    [Footnote 78: George Sholto, nineteenth Earl of Morton
    (1789-1858).]

    [Footnote 79: Dalmahoy, Midlothian.]

[Pageheading: VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE]

[Pageheading: BETROTHAL OF THE DUC D'AUMALE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 31st October 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the pleasure of receiving your dear and kind letter of the 27th yesterday,
by which I learn that you are all well and going on the 4th. Forgive me, dearest Uncle, if
I say that I am glad that you are at length going back to Belgium, as (though I fully understand
from personal experience how delightful it must be to be in the midst of that dear and perfect
family) I think these long absences distress your faithful Belgians a little.

We returned on Saturday, highly pleased and interested with our tour,[80] though a little done
up. I seldom remember more enthusiasm than was shown at Cambridge, and in particular by the
Undergraduates. They received my dear Angel, too, with the greatest enthusiasm. This is useful,
as these young people will all, in time, have a certain part to play; they are the rising generation,
and an event of this kind makes a lasting impression on their minds.

You will have heard from Louise that there is no longer any impediment to the dear Nemours
coming, which you may easily conceive gives me the greatest satisfaction. Since then, I have
heard that Bordeaux does not intend visiting London till he sees by the papers that the Nemours
are gone. I saw a letter from a gentleman, with whom he had been staying, and who says that
he is very pleasing and unaffected, and very easily amused, and quite pleased "with missing
a few pheasants, and dancing quadrilles in the evening to a pianoforte." Poor fellow! his fate
certainly is a melancholy one. He should renounce, buy some property in Germany, and marry,
and settle there.

I am glad to hear of Montpensier's arrival, and that my favourite Chica is in your good graces;
she is a dear natural child. I am so impatient to see my dear Victoire and good Nemours--who
was always a great ally of mine--again!

The Grand Duke came here last night, and goes away after luncheon, and leaves England on Thursday.
He is charmed with all he has seen, and I must say is very amiable and civil. He has got a
most charming large dog, called Dragon, like a Newfoundland, only brown and white, with the
most expressive eyes imaginable and si bien dressé. Prince Alexander of the Netherlands is
also coming down to take leave this week. We never had so many visitors.

I am beyond everything interested with that beautiful novel by Rellstab,[81] 1812, which I
know you admire so much. The description of the Russian Campaign is incomparable, and so beautifully
written. You quite see everything before you. Have you read his other, Paris und Algier? By
the by, have you read Custine's[82] book on Russia? They say it is very severe on Russia, and
full of hatred to the English.

We found the children very well, and Bertie quite recovered, but poor fat Alice (who, I must
say, is becoming very pretty) has had the earache.

Mamma with Feo and Ernest are with the Queen Dowager at Witley Court since Thursday last, and
only return next Thursday (the day after to-morrow). Clem seems very happy, and writes that
she is happiest when she is tête-à-tête with poor Gusti, which I should not fancy. Ever, dearest
Uncle, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I open my letter, dearest Uncle, to say that I have just seen in a confidential despatch from
Lord Cowley that Aumale is authorised to ask for the hand of the daughter of the Prince de
Salerno[83] (a singular coincidence after what I wrote to you in utter ignorance of this report),
and that he was also to find out what the opinions of the Neapolitan Royal Family were respecting
an alliance with the Queen of Spain. But tell me, dearest Uncle, if these reports are true?
You may rely on my discretion, and I shall not breathe a word of what you may answer me, if
you wish the secret to be kept.

    [Footnote 80: The Royal party went by road from Paddington
    to Cambridge, and stayed at the Lodge at Trinity; on the
    following day Prince Albert was made LL.D. The party then went
    to Wimpole, and visited Bourn (Lord Delawarr's). At the ball
    which was given at Wimpole, there was a sofa, covered with a
    piece of drapery given by Louis XIV. to the poet Prior and by
    him to Lord Oxford, the owner of Wimpole, before its purchase
    by Lord Chancellor Hardwicke. See Lord Melbourne's letter of
    7th November, post, p. 503. (Ch. XII, 7th November, 1843)]

    [Footnote 81: Louis Rellstab (1799-1860), a prolific German
    writer of novels, whose thinly-veiled attacks on public men
    earned him at one time a sentence of imprisonment.]

    [Footnote 82: The Marquis Astolphe de Custine (1790-1857),
    author of La Russie en 1839, at this time recently
    published.]

    [Footnote 83: The Due d'Aumale married in November 1844,
    Caroline, daughter of the Prince and Princess of Salerno.]

[Pageheading: INDIAN AFFAIRS]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

In compliance with your Majesty's desire that Sir Robert Peel should inform your Majesty whether
he sees anything objectionable in that letter, Sir Robert Peel humbly represents to your Majesty
that he does not think it would be advisable for your Majesty personally to express to the
Governor-General of India your Majesty's opinion with regard either to the policy of retaining
Scinde,[84] as being of the greatest importance to the security of the Indian Empire, or as
to the completeness of the defence of Sir Charles Napier from the accusations brought against him.

He humbly and most respectfully takes the liberty of submitting to your Majesty, that these
being matters of important public concern, the regular and constitutional channel for conveying
the opinion of your Majesty with respect to them would be through your Majesty's servants.

In the particular case, indeed, of India, instructions do not proceed from your Majesty's servants,
directly signifying your Majesty's pleasure, but are conveyed in despatches to the Governor-General,
signed by the three members of the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors.

The Secret Court of Directors--that is, the whole Court acting in secret--have come to a Resolution
(in Sir Robert Peel's opinion very unwisely and precipitately) expressing the gravest doubt,
on their part, as to the policy and justice of the recent transactions in Scinde.[85]

The Court is aware that your Majesty's servants disapprove of this proceeding on their part,
and that they have declined to transmit officially to Lord Ellenborough, through the Secret
Committee, the condemnatory Resolution of the Court. One of the grounds on which they deprecated
the Resolution was the passing of it in the absence of full and complete information from India,
in respect to the policy and to the events which led to the occupation of Scinde.

Under these circumstances, as well on the general Constitutional ground, as with reference
to the present state of the public correspondence in regard to Scinde, and the particular relation
of the Governor-General to the East India Company, and the Court of Directors, Sir Robert Peel
humbly advises your Majesty to forbear from expressing an opinion, in a private communication
to the Governor-General, with regard to events in Scinde or to the policy hereafter to be pursued
in respect to that country. Sir Robert Peel begs to add that in a private letter by the last
mail to Lord Ripon, Lord Ellenborough observes that he is going on very harmoniously with the
Members of Council at Calcutta.

    [Footnote 84: Earlier in the year Lord Ellenborough had
    appointed Sir Charles Napier Governor of Scinde, and had by
    Proclamation applied the Slave Trade and Slavery Abolition
    Acts to Scinde.]

    [Footnote 85: See Parker's Sir Robert Peel, vol. iii. chap. 1.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne hears with great pleasure of the gratification
which your Majesty and the Prince received in your visit to Cambridge. Lord Melbourne collects
from all the accounts that the proceedings in the Senate House were not only full of loyalty,
enthusiasm, and gratitude, but also perfectly decorous, respectful, academic, and free from
all those political cries which have recently prevailed so much in the theatre at Oxford on
similar occasions.[86] Lord Melbourne hopes he is within [the mark]; if he is it forms a remarkable
and advantageous contrast. Lord Melbourne does not know anywhere a better account of Cambridge,
its foundations, and the historical recollections of its founders, than is given in Mr. Gray's
ode on the installation of the Duke of Grafton, which it would not be amiss to read with the
large explanatory notes that are given in the editions of Mason and Mathias.[87]

Lord Melbourne is very partial to Lord Hardwicke, who always is and has been very civil and
good-natured to Lord Melbourne, and these are qualities to which Lord Melbourne is not at all
indifferent. Wimpole is a curious place. Lord Melbourne is not exactly aware how the Yorkes
got hold of it.[88] There is much history and more poetry connected with it. Prior[89] mentions
it repeatedly, and always calls the first Lady Harley, the daughter of the Duke of Newcastle,
Belphebe.[90] If Hardwicke should have a daughter, he should christen her Belphebe. The Lady
Belphebe Yorke would not sound ill....

    [Footnote 86: See ante, p. 292. (Ch. X, 17th June, 1841)]

    [Footnote 87: Gray, the poet, who had been appointed by the
    Duke Professor of Modern History, composed an ode (set to
    music by Randall) for the latter's installation as Chancellor,
    on 1st July 1769.]

    [Footnote 88: The cultured but indolent Edward, Lord Harley,
    afterwards Earl of Oxford (son of the great minister), sold
    Wimpole to Lord Chancellor Hardwicke in 1740 to pay off a debt
    of £100,000. He had married Lady Henrietta Cavendish Holles,
    daughter and heiress of John, Duke of Newcastle, who brought
    him £500,000, most of which he dissipated. Their only child,
    Margaret, the "noble lovely little Peggy" of Prior, married
    William Bentinck, second Duke of Portland. Lady Oxford sold
    to the nation the "Harleian Collection" of manuscripts, now in
    the British Museum.]

    [Footnote 89: Who died there in 1721.]

    [Footnote 90: Alluding to the rarely printed poem "Colin's
    Mistakes," where "Bright Ca'ndish Holles Harley" is seen in
    the glades of Wimpole by the dreamy youth, and mistaken for
    Gloriana, Belphebe, etc.]

[Pageheading: PROPOSED VISIT TO PEEL]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

WHITEHALL, 9th November 1843.

SIR,--I was greatly gratified by learning on my return to London last night from Witley Court
that it is not improbable that Her Majesty and your Royal Highness may confer the high honour
of a visit to Drayton Manor towards the conclusion of the present month.

I venture to think, from what I saw of Witley Court, that the arrangement proposed by your
Royal Highness will be more convenient to Her Majesty than the staying at Witley Court.

I can assure your Royal Highness that nothing shall be left undone by Lady Peel and me to contribute
to the comfort of Her Majesty and your Royal Highness during your occupation of Drayton Manor,
and to mark our sense of the kind condescension of Her Majesty and your Royal Highness in making
it your abode.

[Pageheading: TRAVELLING ARRANGEMENTS]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

WHITEHALL, Sunday, 12th November 1843.

SIR,--I send to your Royal Highness a little book which is published every month, giving very
useful information as to distances, or at least times, on all the railways. Possibly your Royal
Highness has this book regularly sent to you.

I think, before Her Majesty promises a visit to Witley Court, there are one or two points worthy
of consideration which are in favour of proposing to the Queen Dowager to meet the Queen at
Drayton Manor first. The Queen would have to go and to return in the same day. The Queen Dowager
might remain either one night or two nights at Drayton. Secondly, the Birmingham and Derby
line is not on the same level with the line which goes to Droitwich (eleven miles from Witley
Court), and there is a little delay in posting a carriage, or in passing from the lower line
of railway to the upper.

Thirdly, there is the passage for Her Majesty, though not through Birmingham as in an ordinary
travelling carriage, yet in the immediate outskirts of the town, and this twice in the same day.

The Corporation (which is a completely Radical one) might solicit permission to present an
Address to Her Majesty at the station.

There would, I am sure, be nothing but demonstrations of the greatest loyalty and attachment
to Her Majesty, but there would probably be a great concourse of people, and some delay, if
the Address were received.

MY DEAREST, KINDEST UNCLE,--A long and most interesting letter reached me on Sunday, dated
9th and 10th, and I beg to return my warmest thanks for it. The confidence you show me I feel
deeply and gratefully, and you may rely on my discretion. Before I touch upon any of the subjects
in your letter I will give you news of our visitors. The dear Nemours arrived safely after
a good passage on Saturday, well but very tired. They are now quite recovered, and we are too
happy to have them here. Nemours looks well, and is very kind and amiable, but I think there
is a seriousness since poor Chartres' death which used not to be formerly, though he always
was reserved, and that, I think, he is not now. Dearest Victoire is amazingly improved and
développée--really quite wonderfully so. We are all so struck by it, by her good sense and
by her conversation; and with that she has kept that innocence and gentleness which she always
had--and is so lovely, dear sweet child. I must always look at her, and she, dear child, seems
so pleased to see me again. I find her grown, but grown very thin, and she has not those bright
colours she used to have. All that you say of Bordeaux is just what Nemours says, and what
Guizot writes, and what I and also Sir Robert Peel always felt and thought. Aberdeen, with
the greatest wish to do all that is kind and right, really thought that B. was only come to
amuse himself, and had no idea till now that the feeling in France in all the different parties
was so strong. You will have heard by this time that we have decided not to receive B. in any
way whatever. It is a pleasure to hear how mildly and sensibly Nemours speaks upon all these
subjects, and indeed every subject....

I think you did uncommonly right in what you answered the poor King about the arrêté in favour
of the Prussians, and I am very glad you have done so. It will have a good effect here.

Louise will tell you how we celebrated good Bertie's birthday. The children are in great favour
with the Nemours.

Pray, dearest Uncle, do not forget to send me the list of Rellstab's works. We think of making
another little tour after the dear Nemours' departure, to Drayton (Sir Robert Peel's), Chatsworth,
and Belvoir.

We are very sorry to lose dear Feo and Ernest. They are so good and excellent, and she is so
brav. Ever, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: BIRMINGHAM]

[Memorandum enclosed from Sir Robert Peel to Prince Albert,
      about the political condition of Birmingham, which the
      Prince was intending to visit.]

The Mayor is a hosier--of extreme political opinions--in fact, a Chartist.

The contest for the office of Mayor was between him and a man of Radical opinions, but Chartism
prevailed.

The Mayor has taken a violent part, before his Mayoralty, against Church Rates, and in reference
to the state of Ireland.

The Conservative party took no part whatever in the Municipal Elections, and would not vote.

They would, if invited or permitted by the Mayor and Town Council, cordially co-operate with
men of opposite opinions in any mark of respect to the Prince.

No probability of any tumult or of any demonstration but one of respect personally towards
the Prince, if his visit be clearly and manifestly unconnected with politics.

An immense concourse of people must be expected, not only from Birmingham, but Wolverhampton,
Walsall, and all the neighbouring towns, and previous police arrangements must be very carefully
made.

There may be a proposal of a collation and of an Address, to be received in the Town Hall.

Should not the Lord Lieutenant (Lord Warwick) have notice?

Is the Mayor to accompany the Prince in the same carriage?[91]

The Mayor has no carriage.

No communication should be made to any party in Birmingham, except to the municipal authorities,
notwithstanding their political bias and extreme opinions.

The late Mayor, Mr James, though a Radical, would have summoned the leading men of different
parties.

Doubts as to whether the present Mayor would, or whether he would not, place the whole arrangement
in the hands of the party with which he is connected.

This risk must be incurred, as communications to other parties would not be advisable.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 1st December 1843.

Lord Aberdeen presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He has not yet received any communication
from the Duc de Lévis, notwithstanding he had been led to expect it, from a notice repeatedly
conveyed to him to that effect. It seems probable that in consequence of what the Duc de Lévis
may have heard, as well as from the course pursued by the friends of the Duc de Bordeaux, Lord
Aberdeen may not now see him at all. Should this be the case, Lord Aberdeen is rather inclined
to regret it; as although he would formerly have seen him with some reluctance, he would now
be glad to have an opportunity of expressing his sentiments very plainly respecting the proceedings
of the Prince and his adherents in this country.

Lord Aberdeen understands from Sir Robert Peel that your Majesty would like to be informed
of any particulars connected with the Levée lately held by the Duc de Bordeaux. Lord Aberdeen
would willingly communicate these particulars, but in reality there is very little to be added
to the official accounts contained in the Morning Post, which it is obvious are inserted by
authority. He saw M. de Ste Aulaire this morning, who was a good deal excited by what has taken
place, and has written very fully to Paris; but he knew nothing more than he had seen in the
newspapers.

It may perhaps be worth mentioning to your Majesty that at the presentation of the Address
by M. Chateaubriand[92] on Friday, the cries of "Vive le Roi!" and "Vive Henri V.!" were so
loud as to be distinctly audible in the Square. Lord Aberdeen understands that this enthusiasm
has been the cause of serious differences amongst many of those who had come to pay their respects
to the Duc de Bordeaux, a large portion of whom are by no means disposed to recognise him as
King during the life of the Duc d'Angoulême.[93]

Lord Aberdeen cannot learn that any other member of the Diplomatic Body has been presented
to the Duc de Bordeaux, and does not believe that any such presentation has taken place. Indeed,
there appears to be a general disinclination that such should be the case; although some of
them feel considerable difficulty in consequence of the relationship existing between their
Sovereigns and the Prince.

    [Footnote 92: François, Vicomte de Chateaubriand (1768-1848),
    a great supporter of the Bourbons, and made a Peer in 1815. He
    was Ambassador in London in 1822.]

    [Footnote 93: Eldest son of Charles X.]

Queen Victoria to Lord Stanley.

CHATSWORTH, 3rd December 1843.

The Queen approves of Lord Stanley's proposed Draft to Sir Charles Metcalfe.[94] This question
can in no way be settled without giving offence to one part of the country; the Queen, however,
hopes that the fixing upon Montreal as the seat of Government will hereafter be considered
as fair by impartial minds. Sir Charles continues to show great discretion and firmness in
his most arduous and unsatisfactory situation, and deserves much praise and encouragement.

    [Footnote 94: Governor-General of Canada.]

[Pageheading: VISIT TO CHATSWORTH]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BELVOIR CASTLE, 4th December 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Being much hurried, I can only write you a few lines to thank you for your
kind letter of the 29th, received this morning. You will have heard from Louise the account
of our stay at Drayton (which is a very nice house), and of Albert's brilliant reception at
Birmingham. We arrived at Chatsworth on Friday, and left it at nine this morning, quite charmed
and delighted with everything there. Splendour and comfort are so admirably combined, and the
Duke does everything so well. I found many improvements since I was there eleven years ago.
The conservatory is out and out the finest thing imaginable of its kind. It is one mass of
glass, 64 feet high, 300 long, and 134 wide.[95] The grounds, with all the woods and cascades
and fountains, are so beautiful too. The first evening there was a ball, and the next the cascades
and fountains were illuminated, which had a beautiful effect. There was a large party there,
including many of the Duke's family, the Bedfords, Buccleuchs, the Duke of Wellington, the
Normanbys, Lord Melbourne (who is much better), and the Beauvales. We arrived here at half-past
two, we perform our journey so delightfully on the railroad, so quickly and easily. It puts
me in mind of our dear stay in Belgium, when we stop at the various stations.

Albert is going out hunting to-morrow, which I wish was over, but I am assured that the country
is much better than the Windsor country.

The Duc de Bordeaux's proceedings in London are most highly improper.

The Queen Dowager is also here.

We leave this place on Thursday for home, which, I own, I shall be glad of at last. Ever your
devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 95: It was built by Mr Joseph Paxton, then
    Superintendent of the Gardens, whose intelligence had
    attracted the Duke of Devonshire's attention. In 1850 he was
    the successful competitor for the Great Exhibition building,
    and was knighted on its completion. He superintended its
    re-erection at Sydenham, and afterwards became M.P. for
    Coventry.]

The Princess Hohenhohe to Queen Victoria.

LANGENBURG, 10th December 1843.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... You ask in your letter about the manner in which my children say
their prayers? They say it when in their beds, but not kneeling; how absurd to find that necessary,
as if it could have anything to do with making our prayers more acceptable to the Almighty
or more holy. How really clever people can have those notions I don't understand. I am sorry
it is the case there, where there is so much good and, I am certain, real piety. Dear Pussy
learning her letters I should like to see and hear; I am sure she will learn them very quick.
Has Bertie not learned some more words and sentences during your absence?...

Your attached and devoted sister,

FEODORA.

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT WITH THE HOUNDS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th December 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you much for your kind letter of the 7th, which I received as usual
on Sunday. Louise will be able to tell you how well the remainder of our journey went off,
and how well Albert's hunting answered.[96] One can hardly credit the absurdity of people here,
but Albert's riding so boldly and hard has made such a sensation that it has been written all
over the country, and they make much more of it than if he had done some great act!

It rather disgusts one, but still it had done, and does, good, for it has put an end to all
impertinent sneering for the future about Albert's riding. This journey has done great good,
and my beloved Angel in particular has had the greatest success; for instance, at Birmingham
the good his visit has done has been immense, for Albert spoke to all these manufacturers in
their own language, which they did not expect, and these poor people have only been accustomed
to hear demagogues and Chartists.

We cannot understand how you can think the country about Chatsworth not pretty, for it is (with
the exception of the moors) beautiful, wooded hills and valleys and rapid streams. The country
round Belvoir I do not admire, but the view from the castle is very fine and extensive, and
Albert says puts him so in mind of the Kalenberg....

Pray have you heard anything about Aumale's plans? Dear little Gaston seems much better.

The Duc de Bordeaux has been informed of my and the Government's extreme displeasure at their
conduct; they say there shall be no more such displays. He was to leave London yesterday, only
to return again for a day, and then to leave England altogether.

With Albert's love, ever, dearest Uncle, your most devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 96: The Prince hunted with the Belvoir hounds on the
    5th.]

[Pageheading: AN AMERICAN VIEW OF MONARCHY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 15th December 1843.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am most happy to see that your journey passed so well, and trust you
are not sorry to be again in your very dear and comfortable home, and with your dear children.
People are very strange, and their great delight is to find fault with their fellow-creatures;
what harm could it have done them if Albert had not hunted at all? and still I have no doubt
that his having hunted well and boldly has given more satisfaction than if he had done Heaven
knows what praiseworthy deed; ainsi est et sera le monde.

I am glad also that the Birmingham course succeeded so well; the theme had been for some years,
particularly amongst manufacturers, that Royalty was useless and ignorant, and that the greatest
blessing would be, to manufacture beyond measure, and to have an American form of Government,
with an elective head of State.

Fortunately, there has always hitherto been in England a very aristocratic feeling freely accepted
by the people, who like it, and show that they like it.... I was much amused, some time ago,
by a very rich and influential American from New York assuring me that they stood in great
need of a Government which was able to grant protection to property, and that the feeling of
many was for Monarchy instead of the misrule of mobs, as they had it, and that he wished very
much some branch of the Coburg family might be disposable for such a place. Qu'en dites-vous,
is not this flattering?...

There is nothing very remarkable going on, besides I mean to write again on some subjects.
Give my best love to Albert, and Pussy, who may remember me perhaps, and I remain, ever, my
beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 19th December 1843.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Your kind and dear letter of the 15th, written in your true wit and humour,
reached me on Sunday and gave me great pleasure. We have had also most wonderfully mild weather,
but I think very disagreeable and unseasonable; it always makes me so bilious. The young folks
are very flourishing and prosperous--Pussette knowing all her letters, and even beginning to
read a little. When I mentioned your birthday to her, she said, "I cried when I saw Uncle Leopold,"
which was the case, I am sorry to say, the first time she saw you this year....

I don't believe that the white flag on the house at Belgrave Square[97] is true. Lord Melbourne
and the Beauvales were here for three nights; and it was a pleasure to see Lord Melbourne so
much himself again; the first evening he was a good deal excited and talked and laughed as
of old; the two other evenings he was in the quite silent mood which he often used to be in
formerly, and really quite himself, and there was hardly any strangeness at all. Lady Beauvale
is really a very, very, charming person, and so attentive and kind to both her husband and
Lord Melbourne. Our little chapel here (which is extremely pretty) is to be consecrated this
morning, and Lady Douro comes into Waiting for the first time. To-morrow Mamma gives us a dinner.
Poor Lord Lynedoch[98] is, I fear, dying, and Lord Grey is so bad he cannot last long.[99]

Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 97: The house occupied by the Duc de Bordeaux.]

    [Footnote 98: Thomas, Lord Lynedoch, had died the previous
    day, aged ninety-five.

The Queen has been much amused to see by Sir Robert Gordon's despatch of the 15th, the extreme
fright of Prince Metternich at the proposed marriage of Queen Isabel with Count Trapani,[100]
but she regrets that Sir Robert tried to make excuses for the conduct we have pursued, which
the Queen thinks requires no apology.

    [Footnote 100: See ante, p. 487, note 54. (this Ch., above)]

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury. Paper supplied by John Dickinson
& Co., Ld., London.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is the first Volume of three. The index is in Volume 3. It is suggested that all three
Volumes be downloaded to the same folder.

[ae] and [oe] are used for the diphthongs/ligatures in (mostly) French words. (e.g. c[oe]ur,
heart; s[oe]ur, sister; ch[oe]ur, choir, chorus; v[oe]ux, wishes.)

Some hyphenation is inconsistent and has been retained.

There are a number of 'period' spellings, which I have retained (e.g. bord, controuled, uncontrouled,
Controul, woud, etc.).

The original pageheadings have been retained, moving them to appropriate positions, to the
beginning of letters and text to which they refer, so as not to interrupt the flow of the text.
Thus, a long letter may be prefaced by two, or even three pageheadings.

Likewise, footnotes have been moved to the end of the appropriate letter, or the appropriate
paragraph, in the case of longer pieces of text.

Initial letters are spaced as in the original, i.e., personal initials: spaced; academic initials:
unspaced.

Errata and [sic]:

Page 12: '... were desired to take me a drive to amuse me.' [sic]

Page 14: removed extraneous opening quote.

Page 83: replaced 'It' with 'If' (It you could get my kind....)

Page 145: 'mariage' [sic]: King Leopold may have used the French
  spelling 'mariage' for the English 'marriage'.

Page 146: changed 'anxety' to 'anxiety' - old typo?

Page 157: removed duplicated word (Lord Lord Melbourne)

Page 162: corrected 'Houeshold' to 'Household'.

Page 191: corrected 'beng' to 'being'.

Page 193: corrected 'affecionate' to 'affectionate'.

Page 261: replaced missing period.

Page 298: replaced missing period ...
 'I.e., Lord Melbourne being succeeded

Page 376: corrected 'Every our' to 'Ever your'.

Page 384: '... on bord the Black Eagle ...' [sic]

Page 392: 'I ... am quite confuse. [sic]
  Queen Victoria used the feminine form of the French adjective,
  "confus, e, confused, overpowered; obscure, dim."

Page 417: corrected page no. in footnote from 408 to 409.

Page 443: uncontrouled [sic]

Page 445, Footnote 112: 'a' corrected to 'at'.

Page 448: 'woud' [sic] (though followed by 'would' in same paragraph).

Page 466: corrected 'as' to 'at' ...'look at'...

Page 469: '... one of the Secretaries to the Board of Controul.' [sic]

Page 512: Replaced missing period ... 'Viney, Ld.,'