Upon news of her arrival, Captain Smith, either to increase his own importance or because Pocahontas
was neglected, addressed a letter or "little booke" to Queen Anne, the consort of King James.
This letter is found in Smith's "General Historie" ( 1624), where it is introduced as having
been sent to Queen Anne in 1616. Probably he sent her such a letter. We find no mention of
its receipt or of any acknowledgment of it. Whether the "abstract" in the "General Historie"
is exactly like the original we have no means of knowing. We have no more confidence in Smith's
memory than we have in his dates. The letter is as follows:

"To the most high and vertuous Princesse Queene Anne of Great Brittaine.

"Most ADMIRED QUEENE.

"The love I beare my God, my King and Countrie hath so oft emboldened me in the worst of extreme
dangers, that now honestie doth constraine mee presume thus farre beyond my selfe, to present
your Majestie this short discourse: if ingratitude be a deadly poyson to all honest vertues,
I must be guiltie of that crime if I should omit any meanes to bee thankful. So it is.

"That some ten yeeres agoe being in Virginia, and taken prisoner by the power of Powhaten,
their chiefe King, I received from this great Salvage exceeding great courtesie, especially
from his sonne Nantaquaus, the most manliest, comeliest, boldest spirit, I ever saw in a Salvage
and his sister Pocahontas, the Kings most deare and well-beloved daughter, being but a childe
of twelve or thirteen yeeres of age, whose compassionate pitifull heart, of desperate estate,
gave me much cause to respect her: I being the first Christian this proud King and his grim
attendants ever saw, and thus enthralled in their barbarous power, I cannot say I felt the
least occasion of want that was in the power of those my mortall foes to prevent notwithstanding
al their threats. After some six weeks fatting amongst those Salvage Courtiers, at the minute
of my execution, she hazarded the beating out of her owne braines to save mine, and not onely
that, but so prevailed with her father, that I was safely conducted to Jamestowne, where I
found about eight and thirty miserable poore and sicke creatures, to keepe possession of all
those large territories of Virginia, such was the weaknesse of this poore Commonwealth, as
had the Salvages not fed us, we directly had starved.

"And this reliefe, most gracious Queene, was commonly brought us by this Lady Pocahontas, notwithstanding
all these passages when inconstant Fortune turned our Peace to warre, this tender Virgin would
still not spare to dare to visit us, and by her our jarres have been oft appeased, and our
wants still supplyed; were it the policie of her father thus to imploy her, or the ordinance
of God thus to make her his instrument, or her extraordinarie affection to our Nation, I know
not: but of this I am sure: when her father with the utmost of his policie and power, sought
to surprize mee, having but eighteene with mee, the dark night could not affright her from
comming through the irksome woods, and with watered eies gave me intilligence, with her best
advice to escape his furie: which had hee known hee had surely slaine her. Jamestowne with
her wild traine she as freely frequented, as her father's habitation: and during the time of
two or three yeares, she next under God, was still the instrument to preserve this Colonie
from death, famine and utter confusion, which if in those times had once beene dissolved, Virginia
might have laine as it was at our first arrivall to this day. Since then, this buisinesse having
been turned and varied by many accidents from that I left it at: it is most certaine, after
a long and troublesome warre after my departure, betwixt her father and our Colonie, all which
time shee was not heard of, about two yeeres longer, the Colonie by that meanes was releived,
peace concluded, and at last rejecting her barbarous condition, was maried to an English Gentleman,
with whom at this present she is in England; the first Christian ever of that Nation, the first
Virginian ever spake English, or had a childe in mariage by an Englishman, a matter surely,
if my meaning bee truly considered and well understood, worthy a Princes understanding.

"Thus most gracious Lady, I have related to your Majestic, what at your best leasure our approved
Histories will account you at large, and done in the time of your Majesties life, and however
this might bee presented you from a more worthy pen, it cannot from a more honest heart, as
yet I never begged anything of the State, or any, and it is my want of abilitie and her exceeding
desert, your birth, meanes, and authoritie, her birth, vertue, want and simplicitie, doth make
mee thus bold, humbly to beseech your Majestic: to take this knowledge of her though it be
from one so unworthy to be the reporter, as myselfe, her husband's estate not being able to
make her fit to attend your Majestic: the most and least I can doe, is to tell you this, because
none so oft hath tried it as myselfe: and the rather being of so great a spirit, however her
station: if she should not be well received, seeing this Kingdome may rightly have a Kingdome
by her meanes: her present love to us and Christianitie, might turne to such scorne and furie,
as to divert all this good to the worst of evill, when finding so great a Queene should doe
her some honour more than she can imagine, for being so kinde to your servants and subjects,
would so ravish her with content, as endeare her dearest bloud to effect that, your Majestic
and all the Kings honest subjects most earnestly desire: and so I humbly kisse your gracious
hands."

The passage in this letter, "She hazarded the beating out of her owne braines to save mine,"
is inconsistent with the preceding portion of the paragraph which speaks of "the exceeding
great courtesie" of Powhatan; and Smith was quite capable of inserting it afterwards when he
made up his

"General Historie."

Smith represents himself at this time--the last half of 1616 and the first three months of
1617--as preparing to attempt a third voyage to New England (which he did not make), and too
busy to do Pocahontas the service she desired. She was staying at Branford, either from neglect
of the company or because the London smoke disagreed with her, and there Smith went to see
her. His account of his intercourse with her, the only one we have, must be given for what
it is worth. According to this she had supposed Smith dead, and took umbrage at his neglect
of her. He writes:

"After a modest salutation, without any word, she turned about, obscured her face, as not seeming
well contented; and in that humour, her husband with divers others, we all left her two or
three hours repenting myself to have writ she could speak English. But not long after she began
to talke, remembering me well what courtesies she had done: saying, 'You did promise Powhatan
what was yours should be his, and he the like to you; you called him father, being in his land
a stranger, and by the same reason so must I do you:' which though I would have excused, I
durst not allow of that title, because she was a king's daughter. With a well set countenance
she said: 'Were you not afraid to come into my father's country and cause fear in him and all
his people (but me), and fear you have I should call you father; I tell you then I will, and
you shall call me childe, and so I will be forever and ever, your contrieman. They did tell
me alwaies you were dead, and I knew no other till I came to Plymouth, yet Powhatan did command
Uttamatomakkin to seek you, and know the truth, because your countriemen will lie much."'

This savage was the Tomocomo spoken of above, who had been sent by Powhatan to take a census
of the people of England, and report what they and their state were. At Plymouth he got a long
stick and began to make notches in it for the people he saw. But he was quickly weary of that
task. He told Smith that Powhatan bade him seek him out, and get him to show him his God, and
the King, Queen, and Prince, of whom Smith had told so much. Smith put him off about showing
his God, but said he had heard that he had seen the King. This the Indian denied, James probably
not coming up to his idea of a king, till by circumstances he was convinced he had seen him.

Smith adds that he took several courtiers to see Pocahontas, and "they did think God had a
great hand in her conversion, and they have seen many English ladies worse favoured, proportioned,
and behavioured;" and he heard that it had pleased the King and Queen greatly to esteem her,
as also Lord and Lady Delaware, and other persons of good quality, both at the masques and
otherwise.

Much has been said about the reception of Pocahontas in London, but the contemporary notices
of her are scant. The Indians were objects of curiosity for a time in London, as odd Americans
have often been since, and the rank of Pocahontas procured her special attention. She was presented
at court. She was entertained by Dr. King, Bishop of London. At the playing of Ben Jonson's
"Christmas his Mask" at court, January 6, 1616-17, Pocahontas and Tomocomo were both present,
and Chamberlain writes to Carleton: "The Virginian woman Pocahuntas with her father counsellor
have been with the King and graciously used, and both she and her assistant were pleased at
the Masque. She is upon her return though sore against her will, if the wind would about to
send her away."

Mr. Neill says that "after the first weeks of her residence in England she does not appear
to be spoken of as the wife of Rolfe by the letter writers," and the Rev. Peter Fontaine says
that "when they heard that Rolfe had married Pocahontas, it was deliberated in council whether
he had not committed high treason by so doing, that is marrying an Indian princesse."

It was like James to think so. His interest in the colony was never the most intelligent, and
apt to be in things trivial. Lord Southampton (Dec. 15, 1609) writes to Lord Salisbury that
he had told the King of the Virginia squirrels brought into England, which are said to fly.
The King very earnestly asked if none were provided for him, and said he was sure Salisbury
would get him one. Would not have troubled him, "but that you know so well how he is affected
to these toys."

There has been recently found in the British Museum a print of a portrait of Pocahontas, with
a legend round it in Latin, which is translated: "Matoaka, alias Rebecka, Daughter of Prince
Powhatan, Emperor of Virginia; converted to Christianity, married Mr. Rolff; died on shipboard
at Gravesend 1617." This is doubtless the portrait engraved by Simon De Passe in 1616, and
now inserted in the extant copies of the London edition of the "General Historie," 1624. It
is not probable that the portrait was originally published with the "General Historie." The
portrait inserted in the edition of 1624 has this inscription:

Round the portrait:

"Matoaka als Rebecca Filia Potentiss Princ: Pohatani Imp: Virginim."

In the oval, under the portrait:

         "Aetatis suae 21 A.
            1616"
Below:

"Matoaks als Rebecka daughter to the mighty Prince Powhatan Emprour of Attanoughkomouck als
virginia converted and baptized in the Christian faith, and wife to the worth Mr. job Rolff.
i: Pass: sculp. Compton Holland excud."

Camden in his "History of Gravesend" says that everybody paid this young lady all imaginable
respect, and it was believed she would have sufficiently acknowledged those favors, had she
lived to return to her own country, by bringing the Indians to a kinder disposition toward
the English; and that she died, "giving testimony all the time she lay sick, of her being a
very good Christian."

The Lady Rebecka, as she was called in London, died on shipboard at Gravesend after a brief
illness, said to be of only three days, probably on the 21st of March, 1617. I have seen somewhere
a statement, which I cannot confirm, that her disease was smallpox. St. George's Church, where
she was buried, was destroyed by fire in 1727. The register of that church has this record:

       "1616, May 21 Rebecca Wrothe
        Wyff of Thomas Wroth gent
     A Virginia lady borne, here was buried
          in ye chaunncle."

Yet there is no doubt, according to a record in the Calendar of State Papers, dated "1617,
29 March, London," that her death occurred March 21, 1617.

John Rolfe was made Secretary of Virginia when Captain Argall became Governor, and seems to
have been associated in the schemes of that unscrupulous person and to have forfeited the good
opinion of the company. August 23, 1618, the company wrote to Argall: "We cannot imagine why
you should give us warning that Opechankano and the natives have given the country to Mr. Rolfe's
child, and that they reserve it from all others till he comes of years except as we suppose
as some do here report it be a device of your own, to some special purpose for yourself." It
appears also by the minutes of the company in 1621 that Lady Delaware had trouble to recover
goods of hers left in Rolfe's hands in Virginia, and desired a commission directed to Sir Thomas
Wyatt and Mr. George Sandys to examine what goods of the late "Lord Deleware had come into
Rolfe's possession and get satisfaction of him." This George Sandys is the famous traveler
who made a journey through the Turkish Empire in 1610, and who wrote, while living in Virginia,
the first book written in the New World, the completion of his translation of Ovid's "Metamorphosis."

John Rolfe died in Virginia in 1622, leaving a wife and children. This is supposed to be his
third wife, though there is no note of his marriage to her nor of the death of his first. October
7, 1622, his brother Henry Rolfe petitioned that the estate of John should be converted to
the support of his relict wife and children and to his own indemnity for having brought up
John's child by Powhatan's daughter.

This child, named Thomas Rolfe, was given after the death of Pocahontas to the keeping of Sir
Lewis Stukely of Plymouth, who fell into evil practices, and the boy was transferred to the
guardianship of his uncle Henry Rolfe, and educated in London. When he was grown up he returned
to Virginia, and was probably there married. There is on record his application to the Virginia
authorities in 1641 for leave to go into the Indian country and visit Cleopatra, his mother's
sister. He left an only daughter who was married, says Stith (1753), "to Col. John Bolling;
by whom she left an only son, the late Major John Bolling, who was father to the present Col.
John Bolling, and several daughters, married to Col. Richard Randolph, Col. John Fleming, Dr.
William Gay, Mr. Thomas Eldridge, and Mr. James Murray." Campbell in his "History of Virginia"
says that the first Randolph that came to the James River was an esteemed and industrious mechanic,
and that one of his sons, Richard, grandfather of the celebrated John Randolph, married Jane
Bolling, the great granddaughter of Pocahontas.

In 1618 died the great Powhatan, full of years and satiated with fighting and the savage delights
of life. He had many names and titles; his own people sometimes called him Ottaniack, sometimes
Mamauatonick, and usually in his presence Wahunsenasawk. He ruled, by inheritance and conquest,
with many chiefs under him, over a large territory with not defined borders, lying on the James,
the York, the Rappahannock, the Potomac, and the Pawtuxet Rivers. He had several seats, at
which he alternately lived with his many wives and guard of bowmen, the chief of which at the
arrival of the English was Werowomocomo, on the Pamunkey (York) River. His state has been sufficiently
described. He is said to have had a hundred wives, and generally a dozen--the youngest--personally
attending him. When he had a mind to add to his harem he seems to have had the ancient oriental
custom of sending into all his dominions for the fairest maidens to be brought from whom to
select. And he gave the wives of whom he was tired to his favorites.

Strachey makes a striking description of him as he appeared about 1610: "He is a goodly old
man not yet shrincking, though well beaten with cold and stormeye winters, in which he hath
been patient of many necessityes and attempts of his fortune to make his name and famely great.
He is supposed to be little lesse than eighty yeares old, I dare not saye how much more; others
saye he is of a tall stature and cleane lymbes, of a sad aspect, rownd fatt visaged, with graie
haires, but plaine and thin, hanging upon his broad showlders; some few haires upon his chin,
and so on his upper lippe: he hath been a strong and able salvadge, synowye, vigilant, ambitious,
subtile to enlarge his dominions:... cruell he hath been, and quarellous as well with his own
wcrowanccs for trifles, and that to strike a terrour and awe into them of his power and condicion,
as also with his neighbors in his younger days, though now delighted in security and pleasure,
and therefore stands upon reasonable conditions of peace with all the great and absolute werowances
about him, and is likewise more quietly settled amongst his own."

It was at this advanced age that he had the twelve favorite young wives whom Strachey names.
All his people obeyed him with fear and adoration, presenting anything he ordered at his feet,
and trembling if he frowned. His punishments were cruel; offenders were beaten to death before
him, or tied to trees and dismembered joint by joint, or broiled to death on burning coals.
Strachey wondered how such a barbarous prince should put on such ostentation of majesty, yet
he accounted for it as belonging to the necessary divinity that doth hedge in a king: "Such
is (I believe) the impression of the divine nature, and however these (as other heathens forsaken
by the true light) have not that porcion of the knowing blessed Christian spiritt, yet I am
perswaded there is an infused kind of divinities and extraordinary (appointed that it shall
be so by the King of kings) to such as are his ymedyate instruments on earth."

