He was not far wrong in the estimate he formed of both their characters. Though Ussher loved
Feemy, perhaps as well as he was ever likely to love any woman, circumstances might easily
have induced him to give her up. It was the impediments in the way, and the opposition he now
met with, which would give the affair a fresh interest in his eyes. He certainly did not intend
to marry the poor girl; had she had sufficient tact, she might, perhaps, have persuaded him
to do so; but her fervent love and perfect confidence, though very gratifying to his vanity,
did not inspire him with that feeling of respect which any man would wish to have for the girl
he was going to marry. I do not say that his premeditated object had been to persuade her to
leave her home, but Father John was not far wrong in fearing, that unless steps were taken
to prevent it, it would be the most probable termination to the whole affair.

With regard to Feemy, he was quite right in thinking that her love of Ussher was strong enough
to induce her to take almost any step that he might desire; and that that love, joined to her
own obstinacy and determined resistance to the advice of those to whom she should have listened,
was such as to render it most unlikely that she should be induced to give him up; but though
he so well understood the weakness of her character, he was not aware of, for he had had no
opportunity of trying, its strength.

As long as Feemy had her own way, as at the present time she had, she would, as we have seen,
yield entirely to her strong love; but this was not all; had circumstances enabled her friends
to remove her entirely out of Ussher's way, and had they done so, her love would have remained
the same; her passion was so strong, that it could not be weakened or strengthened by absence
or opposition. When Father John calculated that by good management Ussher might be brought
to relinquish Feemy, he was right, but he was far from right, when he thought that Feemy could
be taught to forget him. She literally cared for no one but him; her life had been so dull
before she knew him, and so full of interest since--he so nearly came up to her beau ideal
of what a man should be, for she had seen, or at any rate had known, no better--he so greatly
excelled her brother and father, and was so much better looking than young Cassidy, and so
much more spirited than Frank McKeon, that to her young heart he was all perfection.

She had lately been vexed, tormented, and even frightened; but her fear was merely that Ussher
did not love her as she did him--that he might be made to leave her; and she was learning to
hate her brother for opposing, as she would have said, the only source of her happiness. As
to being induced by prudence or propriety to be cool to her lover--as to taking the first step
herself towards making a breach between them--nothing that her brother or the priest had said,
nothing that they could ever say, could either make her think of doing so, or think that it
could be advisable, or in any way proper, that she should do so. For this strong feeling Father
John did not give our heroine credit; but he still felt that she was headstrong enough to make
it a very difficult task for him to manage her in any way. But as his charity was unbounded,
so were his zeal and courage great.

His present plan was to induce his friend, Mrs. McKeon, to ask Feemy to come over and spend
some time with her and her daughters at Drumsna. There were difficulties in this; for, in the
first place, although Feemy and the Miss McKeons had been very good friends, still the reports
which had lately been afloat, both about her and the affairs of her family, might make Mrs.
McKeon, a prudent woman, unwilling to comply with the priest's wishes--though indeed it was
not often that she contradicted him in anything; then, after he had talked Mrs. McKeon over,
when he had aroused her charitable feelings and excited the good nature, which, to tell the
truth, was never very dormant in her bosom, he had the more difficult task of persuading Feemy
to accept the invitation. Not that under ordinary circumstances she would not be willing enough
to go to Mrs. McKeon's, but at present she would be likely to suspect a double meaning in everything.
Father John had already mentioned Mrs. McKeon's name to her, in reference to her attachment
to Ussher; and it was more than probable that if he now brought her an invitation from that
lady, she would perceive that the object was to separate her from her lover, and that she would
obstinately persist in remaining at Ballycloran.

As Father John was entering Drumsna, he met his curate, Cullen, and McGovery, who, considering
that he had only been married the evening before, and that if he had not been dancing himself,
he had been kept up by his guests' doing so till four or five in the morning, had left his
bride rather early; for, according to custom, he had slept the first night after his wedding
at his wife's house, and, though it was only ten o'clock, he had been on a visit to Father
Cullen, with whom he was now eagerly talking.

On the previous evening, when feigning to be asleep, he had managed to overhear a small portion
of what had passed between Thady, Joe Reynolds, and the rest; but what he had overheard had
reference solely to Keegan; for when they began to speak of Ussher, everything had been said
in so low a voice, that he had been unable to comprehend a word. He had contrived, however,
to pick up something, in which Ballycloran, rents, Keegan, and a bog-hole were introduced in
marvellous close connection, and he was not slow in coming to the determination that he had
been wrong when he fancied that Ussher was the object against whom plots were being formed,
and that Keegan was the doomed man; but what was worse still, he was led to imagine that the
perpetrators of Mr. Keegan's future watery grave were instigated by young Macdermot! He was
well aware that Flannelly and Keegan, for they were all one, had the greater portion of the
rents out of Ballycloran, and he now plainly saw that the more active of this firm was to be
made away with, while collecting, or attempting to collect, the rent.

Denis was puzzled as to what he should do; his conscience would not allow the man to be murdered
without his interference; he had no great love for Mr. Keegan, and his sympathies were not
more strongly excited than they had been when he thought Ussher was to be the victim. Should
he tell Mr. Keegan? that would be setting the devil in arms against his wife's brother--against
his wife's brother's master--and against his wife's brother's master's tenants; this was too
near cutting his own throat, to be a line of action agreeable to Denis. Then it occurred to
him to have recourse again to Father John: but Father John had made light of his former warning.
Besides, the fact of his having been wrong in his last surmises, would have thrown stronger
doubts on those he now entertained. Father John too was always quizzing him, and Denis did
not like to be quizzed. After much consideration, McGovery resolved to go to Father Cullen,
and disclose his secret to him; Father Cullen was a modest, steady man, who would neither make
light of, or ridicule what he heard; and if after that Keegan was drowned in a bog-hole, it
would be entirely off Denis's conscience.

When Father John met the pair, they had just been discussing the subject; Cullen was far from
making light of it; for, in the first place, he believed every word McGovery told him, and
in the next, he was shocked, and greatly grieved, that one of his own parishioners, and one
also of the most respectable of them, should be concerned in such a business: he felt towards
Keegan all the abhorrence which a very bigoted and ignorant Roman Catholic could feel towards
a Protestant convert, but he would have done anything to prevent his meeting his death by the
hands, or with the connivance, of Thady Macdermot.

As soon as Cullen had heard McGovery's statement--which, by the by, had been made without any
reference to his previous statement to Father John, or his warning to Captain Ussher--he determined
to tell it all to the parish priest, and to take McGovery with him. This plan did not, however,
suit Denis at all, and he used all his eloquence to persuade Father Cullen, that if he told
Mr. McGrath at all, he, Denis, had better not make one of the party; and he was at the moment
considering what excuse he could give for refusing to go into the priest's cottage, when they
met Father John on the road coming into Drumsna.

Denis was greatly disconcerted,--but Cullen, full of his news, and as eager to communicate
it as if it had been arranged definitely that Keegan was to be put into the bog-hole at noon
precisely, was very glad to see him, and instantly opened his budget.

"I'm very glad to meet you this morning, Mr. McGrath," he began, "and it's well since you're
out so early, that it's not the other way you went,--for I'd been greatly bothered if I hadn't
found you."

"But here I am, you see,--and if it was only after me you were going, I suppose you can turn,
for I'm going to Drumsna."

"Oh to be sure I can; don't you be going, Denis McGovery." Denis had taken off his hat, and
muttering something about his wife, and "good morning, yer riverence," was decamping towards
Ballycloran.

"Why, man," said Father John, "what business have you so far from your wife at this hour of
the morning, after your wedding? Have you been to take the two pigs home?"

"He, he, Father John, you'll niver have done with them pigs!--But the wife'll be waiting for
me, and, as yer riverence says, I mustn't be baulking her the first morning."

"Stay a while,--as you've come so far without her, you can stop a moment."

"Oh yes," said Cullen, "wait till you've told Mr. McGrath what you told me."

Denis was unwillingly obliged to remain, and repeat to Father John the whole story he had told
Cullen. Though he could hardly tell why himself, he softened down a little the strong assurance
he had given Cullen that Thady himself had been urging the boys to make away with Keegan. Father
John listened to all in silence, till Denis ended by wishing "that the two young men got home
safe last night, and that there war nothing worse nor harder than words betwixt them."

"Get home safe, you fool!" answered Father John, "and why wouldn't they?--don't you know the
difference yet, between a few foolish words, said half in fun, and a quarrel? To be sure they
got home safe;--and let me tell you, Denis, for a sensible fellow as you pretend to be, you'd
be a deal better employed minding your business, than thinking of other people's quarrels,
or trying to pick up stories of murders, and heaven knows what--filling your own mind and other
people's too with foolish fears, for which there are no grounds. And now, if you'd take my
advice, you'll go home, and leave your betters to take care of themselves, for you'll find
it quite enough to take care of yourself;--and mind, McGovery, if I find this cock and bull
story of yours gets through the country, so as to reach Mr. Keegan's ears, or to annoy Mr.
Macdermot, I shall know where it came from; and perhaps you're not aware, that a person inventing
such a story as you've been telling Mr. Cullen, might soon find himself in Carrick Gaol."

It would be impossible to say whether Cullen was most astonished, or McGovery disconcerted,
by Father John's address.

"But," began Cullen, "if the man really heard the plan proposed, Mr. McGrath, and if Mr. Thady
was one of them--"

"Ah, nonsense, Cullen."

"But I haven't invented a word, Father John," said McGovery; "I heard it every word; and shure,
afther hearing it all with my own ears, was I to let the man be shot into a bog-hole, without
saying a word to no one about it, Father John?"

"Ah, you're a nice boy, Denis,--and why did you pass my gate to come all the way down to Father
Cullen, to tell him the dreadful tale? why didn't you come to me, eh--when you knew, not only
that I was nearer you than Mr. Cullen, but also nearer to the place where all this was to happen?"

"Why then, Father John, not to tell you a lie, it is because you do be going on with your gagging
at me so."

"Nonsense, man;--how can you say you are not going to lie, when you know you've a lie in your
mouth at the moment."

"Sorrow a lie is there in it at all, Father John,--I wish the tongue of me had been blistered
this morning, before I said a word of it."

"I wish it had been. Why, Cullen, it was only last night that he wanted to persuade me that
a lot of boys were to meet at the place where he was married, to agree to murder Ussher; and
to hear the man, you'd think it was all arranged, who was to strike the blow and all; and now
here he is with you, with a similar story about Keegan! He was afraid to come to me, because
he knew he'd half humbugged me with his other story last night."

"But I tell you, Father John, I heard it all with my own ears this time."

"And I tell you, you were dreaming. Do you think you'd make me believe that such a young gentleman
as Mr. Thady would turn murderer all of a sudden? Now go home, and take my advice; if you don't
want to find yourself in a worse scrape than Captain Ussher, or Mr. Keegan, don't repeat such
a tale as that to any one."

McGovery sneaked off with his tail, allegorically speaking, between his legs. He didn't exactly
know what to make of it; for though, as has been before said, he did not wish on this occasion
to make Father John the depositary of his fears, he did not expect even from him to meet with
such total discomfiture. He consoled himself, however, with the recollection that if anything
did happen now, either to the revenue officer or the attorney,--and he almost hoped there would,--he
could fairly say that he had given warning and premonitory tidings of it to the parish priests,
which, if attended to, might have prevented all harm. With this comfortable feeling, to atone
for Father John's displeasure, and now not quite sure whether he had overheard any allusion
last night to Keegan and a bog-hole or not, he returned to his wife.

As soon as he was gone, Cullen, as much surprised as McGovery at the manner in which Father
John had received the story, asked him if he thought it was all a lie.

"Perhaps not all a lie," answered the priest; "perhaps he heard something about Keegan--not
very flattering to the attorney; no doubt Thady was asking the boys about the rent, and threatening
them with Keegan as a receiver over the property, or something of that sort; and very likely
one of those boys from Drumleesh said something about a bog-hole, which may be Thady didn't
reprove as he ought to have done. I've no doubt it all came about in that way,--but that fellow
with his tales and his stories, will get his ears cut off some of these days, and serve him
right. Why, he wanted yesterday, to make me believe that these fellows who are to drown Keegan
this morning, were to shoot Ussher last night! He's just the fellow to do more harm in the
country than all the stills, if he were listened to.--Well, Cullen, good day, I'm going into
Mr. McKeon's here;"--and Cullen went away quite satisfied with Father John's view of the affair.

Not so, Father John. For Thady's sake--to screen his character, and because he did not think
there was any immediate danger--he had given the affair the turn which it had just taken; but
he himself feared--more than feared--felt sure that there was too much truth in what the man
had said. Thady's unusual intoxication last night--his brutal conduct to his sister--to Ussher,
and to himself--the men with whom he had been drinking--his own knowledge of the feeling the
young man entertained towards Keegan, and the hatred the tenants felt for the attorney--all
these things conspired to convince Father John that McGovery had too surely overheard a conversation,
which, if repeated to Keegan, might probably, considering how many had been present at it,
give him a desperate hold over young Macdermot, which he would not fail to use, either by frightening
him into measures destructive to the property, or by proceeding criminally against him. Father
John was not only greatly grieved that such a meeting should have been held, with reference
to its immediate consequences, but he was shocked that Thady should so far have forgotten himself
and his duty as to have attended it. But with the unceasing charity which made the great beauty
of Father John's character, he, in his heart, instantly made allowances for him; he remembered
all his distress and misery--his want of friends--his grief for his sister--his continued attempts
and continued inability to relieve his father from his difficulties; and he determined to endeavour
to screen him.

His success with McGovery, whom he had made to disbelieve his own senses, and with Cullen,
who was ready enough to take his superior's views in any secular affair, had been complete;
and he did not think that either would now be likely to repeat the story in a manner that would
do any injury. We shall, in a short time, see what steps he took in the matter with Thady himself.
In the meanwhile, we will follow him into Mrs. McKeon's house, at whose door he had now arrived.

CHAPTER XV.

THE M'KEONS.

When Father John opened the wicket gate leading into the small garden which separated Mrs.
McKeon's house from the street, he saw her husband standing in the open door-way, ruminating.
Mr. McKeon was said to be a comfortable man, and he looked to be so; he was something between
forty-five and fifty, about six feet two high, with a good-humoured red face. He was inclined
to be corpulent, and would no doubt have followed his inclination had he not accustomed himself
to continual bodily activity. He was a great eater, and a very great drinker; it is said he
could put any man in Connaught under the table, and carry himself to bed sober. At any rate
he was never seen drunk, and it was known that he had often taken fifteen tumblers of punch
after dinner, and rumour told of certain times when he had made up and exceeded the score.

He was comfortable in means as well as in appearance. Though Mr. McKeon had no property of
his own, he was much better off than many around him that had. He had a large farm on a profitable
lease; he underlet a good deal of land by con-acre, or corn-acre;--few of my English readers
will understand the complicated misery to the poorest of the Irish which this accursed word
embraces;--he took contracts for making and repairing roads and bridges; and, altogether, he
contrived to live very well on his ways and means. Although a very hard-working man he was
a bit of a sportsman, and usually kept one or two well-trained horses, which, as he was too
heavy to ride them himself, he was always willing, and usually able, to sell at remunerating
prices. He was considered a very good hand at a handicap, and understood well--no one better--the
dangerous mysteries of "knocking." He was sure to have some animal to run at the different
steeple-chases in the neighbourhood, and it was generally supposed, that even when not winning
his race, Tony McKeon seldom lost much by attending the meeting. There was now going to be
a steeple-chase at Carrick-on-Shannon in a few days, and McKeon was much intent on bringing
his mare, Playful,--a wicked devil, within twenty yards of whom no one but himself and groom
could come,--into the field in fine order and condition. In addition to this, Mr. McKeon was
a very hospitable man, his only failing in that respect being his firm determination and usual
practice to make every man that dined with him drunk. He was honest in everything, barring
horse-flesh; was a good Catholic, and very fond of his daughters--Louey and Lydia. His wife
was a kind, good, easy creature, fond of the world and the world's goods, and yet not selfish
or niggardly with those with which she was blessed. She was sufficiently contented with her
husband, whose friends never came out of the dining-room after dinner, and therefore did not
annoy her; she looked on his foibles with a lenient eye, for she had been accustomed to such
all her life; and when she heard he had parted with her car in a handicap, or had lost her
two fat pigs in a knock, she bore it with great good-humour. She was always willing to procure
amusement for her daughters, and was beginning to feel anxious to get them husbands; she was
a good neighbour, and if she had a strong feeling at all, it was her partiality for Father
John. Her daughters had nothing very remarkable about them to recommend them to our attention:
they were both rather pretty, tolerably well educated, to the extent of a two years' sojourn
in a convent in Sligo; were both very fond of novels, dancing, ribbons and potato cakes; and
both thought that to dance at a race-ball with an officer in his regimentals was the most supreme
terrestrial blessing of which their lot was susceptible.

We have, however, kept the father too long standing at his own door, while we have been describing
his family.

"Well, Father John," said McKeon, "how are you this morning?"

"Why then, as luckily I didn't dine with you, Mr. McKeon, I'm pretty much as I usually am,--and,
thank God, that's well. I'm told you had those poor fellows that were with you last night,
laid on a mattress, and that you sent them home that way to Carrick on a country car, and that
they couldn't move, leaving this at six this morning."

"Oh, nonsense, Father John! who was telling you them lies?"

"But wasn't it true? Didn't they go home on one of the cars off the farm, and young Michael
driving them, and they on a mattress?"

"And sure, Father John, you wouldn't have had me let them walk home to Carrick after dinner?"

"They were little fit for walking, I believe; why they couldn't so much as sit up in the car.
Will you never have done, Mr. McKeon; don't you know the sin of drunkenness?"

"The sin of drunkenness! me know it! Indeed I don't then. When did you ever see me drunk? Come,
which was a case last, Father John--you or I?"

"God forgive me, but I believe some boys did make me rather tipsy the first day I ever was
in France; and my head should have been full of other things; and I believe if you were to
swim in punch it wouldn't hurt you; but you know as well as I can tell you, it's worse for
you to be making others drink so much who can't bear it as you can, than if you were hurting
yourself."

"And you know, as well as I can tell you, that yourself would be the last man to take the whiskey
off the table, as long as the lads that were with you chose to be drinking it; and I think
when I sent them boys off to Carrick as comfortably asleep as if they were in bed, so that
they wouldn't be too late at business this morning, I acted by them as I'd wish anybody to
act by me if I had an accident; and if that an't being a good Christian, I don't know what
is. So lave off preaching, Father John, and come round to the stables, till I show you the
mare that'll win at Carrick; at least, it 'll be a very good nag that 'll take the shine out
of her."

"I hope you'll win, Mr. McKeon, in spite of your villany in making those young fellows drunk.
But I'll not look at the mare just at present; more by token I'm told she's not very civil
to morning visitors."

"Arrah, nonsense, man! she's as quiet a mare as ever went over a fence, when she's well handled."

"But you see I can't handle her well; and as I want to see the good woman that owns you, if
you please, I'll go into the house instead of into the stable."

"Well, every man to his choice; and I'll see Playful get her gallop. But I tell you what, Father
John, if you don't mind what you're after with Mrs. McKeon, I'll treat you a deal worse than
I did those two fellows I sent home to Carrick on a mattress."

So Mr. McKeon walked off to superintend the training of his mare; and the priest, in spite
of the marital caution he had received, walked into the dining-room, where he knew that at
that hour he should probably find the mother and daughters surrounded by their household cares.

When the usual greetings were over, and the two girls had asked all the particulars of Mary
Brady's wedding, and Mrs. McKeon had got through her usual gossip, Father John warily began
the subject respecting which he was so anxious to rouse his friend's soft sympathies.

Mrs. McKeon had gone so far herself as to ask him whether anything had been settled yet at
Ballycloran, about Ussher, and whether he thought that the young man really intended to marry
the girl.

The way this question was asked, was a great damper to Father John's hopes. If there had been
any kindly feelings towards poor Feemy at the moment in her breast, she would have called her
by her name, and not spoken of her as "the girl;" it showed that Mrs. McKeon was losing, or
had lost, whatever good opinion she might ever have had of Feemy: and when Louey ill-naturedly
added, "Oh laws!--not he--the man never thought of her," Father John felt sure that there was
a slight feeling of triumph among the female McKeons at the idea of Feemy's losing the lover
of whom, perhaps, she had been somewhat too proud.

Still, however, he did not despair; he knew that if they spoke with ill-nature, it arose from
thoughtlessness--and that it was, at any rate with the mother, only necessary to point out
to her the benefit she could confer, to arouse a kindly feeling within her.

"I think you're wrong there, Miss Louey," said Father John; "I think he not only did think
of her--but does think of her; and I'll tell you what I know, that if Feemy Macdermot had the
great blessing which you have, and that is a kind, good, careful mother to the fore, she'd
have been married to him before this."

"But, Father John," said the kind, good, careful mother, "what is there to prevent them marrying,
if he's ready? I always pitied Feemy being left alone there with her father and brother; but
if Captain Ussher is in earnest, I don't see how twenty mothers would make it a bit easier
for her."

"Don't you, Mrs. McKeon!--then it's little you know the advantage your own girls have in yourself.
Don't you think a man would prefer taking a girl from a house where a good mother gave signs
that the daughter would make a good wife, than from one where there was no one to mind her
but a silly old man, and a young one like Thady?--a very good young man in his way, but not
very fit, Mrs. McKeon, to act a mother's part to a girl like Feemy."

"That's true enough; but then why did she make all the world believe he was engaged to her,
if he wasn't?--And if he wasn't, why did she let him go on as though he was, being at all hours,
I'm told, with her at Ballycloran?--and if they are not to be married, why does her brother
let him be coming there at all? I know you're fond of them, Father John, and I'd be sorry to
think ill of your friends; but I must say it begins to look odd."

"You're right any how, in saying I'm very fond of them; indeed I am, and so is yourself, Mrs.
McKeon; and I know, though you speak in that way to me, you wouldn't say anything that could
hurt the poor girl, any where but just among ourselves. If it wasn't in a kind mother, with
such a heart as your own,--especially in one she'd known so long,--in whom could a poor motherless,
friendless girl, like Feemy, expect to find a friend?"

"God forbid I should hurt her, Father John! And indeed I'd befriend her if I knew how; but
don't you think, yourself now, she's played a foolish game with that young man?"

"Why, as I never was a young lady in love, I can't exactly say how a young lady in love should
behave; but, my dear woman, look at it this way; I suppose there's no harm in Feemy wishing
to get herself married, more than any other young lady?"

"Oh! dear no, Father John; quite right she should."

"And every one seems to think this Captain Ussher would be a proper match for her."

"Why, barring that he's a Protestant, of course he's a very good match for her."

"Oh! as to his being a Protestant, we won't mind that now. Well then, Mrs. McKeon, under these
circumstances, what could Feemy do better than encourage this Captain?"

"I never blamed her for encouraging him; only she should not have gone the length she has,
unless he downright proposed for her."

"But he has downright proposed for her."

"No! Father John," said Louey.

"Has he though, really!" exclaimed Lyddy.

"Then, why, in the name of the blessed Virgin, don't he marry her?" said the mother.

"That's poor Feemy's difficulty, you see, Mrs. McKeon. Now if any man you approved of were
to make off with Miss Lyddy's heart--and I'm sure she'll never give it to any one you don't
approve of--why of course he'd naturally come to you or her father, and the matter would be
settled; but Feemy has no mother for him to go to, and her father, you know, can't mind such
things now."

"But she has a brother; in short, if he meant to marry her, it would soon be done. Where there's
a will, there's a way."

"But that's where it is; you know young men, and what they are, a deal better than I do; and
you can understand that a young man may propose to a girl, and be accepted, and afterwards
shilly shally about it, and perhaps at last change his mind altogether--merely because the
girl's friends don't take care that the affair is regularly and properly carried on; now isn't
that so, Mrs. McKeon?"

"Indeed, Father John, it's all true."

"Well, that's just Feemy's case; may be, after, as you say, having given the young man so much
encouragement, she'll lose him because she has no mother to keep him steady as it were, and
fix him; and no blame to her in the matter either, is there, Mrs. McKeon?"

"Why, if you look at it in that way, of course, she's not so much to blame."

"Of course not," said Father John, obliged to be satisfied with this modicum of applause; "of
course not; but it's a pity for the poor girl."

"You think he'll jilt her altogether, then?"

"I don't think he means it yet; but I think he will mean it soon,--unless, indeed, Mrs. McKeon,
you'd befriend her now."

"Me, Father John!"

"If you'd take a mother's part with her for a week or so, it would all be right; and I don't
know a greater charity one Christian could do another this side the grave, than you could do her."

"What could I do, Father John?" said the good woman,--rather frightened, for she would now
be called on to take some active part in the matter, which perhaps she might not altogether
relish;--"what could I do? You see Ballycloran is three miles out of this, and I couldn't always
be up there when Ussher was coming. And though I believe I'd be bold enough where one of my
own girls was concerned, I'd be shy of speaking to a man like Captain Ussher, when it was no
business of my own."

"As for that, I believe you'd never want wit or spirit either, to say what you'd wish to say
to any man, and that in the very best manner. It's true enough, though, you couldn't be always
up at Ballycloran; but why couldn't Feemy be down at Drumsna?"--Father John paused a minute,
and Mrs. McKeon said nothing, but looked very grave.--"Now be a good woman, Mrs. McKeon, and
ask the poor girl down here for a fortnight or so; I know Lyddy and Louey are very fond of
their friend, and Feemy'd be nice company for them; and then as you are acquainted with Captain
Ussher, of course he'd be coming after his sweetheart; and then, when Feemy is under your protection,
of course you'd speak to him in your own quiet lady-like way; and then, take my word for it,
I'd be marrying them in this very room before Christmas. Wouldn't we have dancing up stairs,
eh, Miss Louey?"--Mrs. McKeon still said nothing.--"And even supposing Ussher did not come
down here, and nothing was done, why it would be evident the match was not to take place, and
that Ussher was a blackguard; then of course Feemy must give up all thoughts of him. And though,
maybe, she'd grieve awhile, it would be better so than going on as she is now up at the old
place, with no one to give her any advice, or tell her what she ought to do or say to the man.
Any way, you see, it would be doing her a kind service. Come, Mrs. McKeon, make up your mind
to be a kind, good neighbour to the poor girl; and do you and the two young ladies go up to
Ballycloran, and ask her to come down and spend a week or two with you here."

"But perhaps," said Louey, "Feemy won't like to leave Ballycloran, and come so far from her
beau; because she couldn't see him here as she does there, you know, Father John."

"Why, Miss Louey, I don't think you know how she sees him. I believe he goes and calls there,
much as you'd like your beau to come and call here, if you had one."

"Indeed, Father John, when I do have one, I hope I shall manage better than to be talked about
as much as she is, any way. I hardly think it would do to ask her at present, mother. You know
Mr. Gayner is to be here the night of the race-ball, and we've only the one bed."

"Come, come, Miss Louey, I didn't expect to hear you say a word against your old friend; why
should you be less good-natured than your mother? You see she's thinking how she can best do
what I'm asking."

"As for old friends," said Louey, "I and Miss Macdermot were never so very intimate; and as
for being ill-natured, I never was told before that I was more ill-natured than mother. But
of course mamma will do as she likes, only she can't very well turn Mr. Gayner out of the house
after having asked him to come for the races, that's all:" and Miss Louey flounced out of the room.

"Come, Mrs. McKeon," continued Father John, "think of the benefit this would be to Feemy; and
you can't have any real objection; the race-ball is only for one night, and the girls will
be too tired after that, to think very much of sleeping together."

"But you seem to forget--very likely Mr. McKeon wouldn't like my asking her; you know I couldn't
think of doing it without asking him."

"Oh! Mrs. McKeon, that's a good joke! You'll make me believe, won't you, that you're not as
much mistress of your own house as any woman in Ireland? As if Mr. McKeon would interfere with
your asking any one you pleased to your own house."

"But you see the girls are against it."

"I hope they are not against anything that would be charitable and kind in their mother; but
if they were, I'm quite sure their mother shouldn't give way to them. Wouldn't you be glad
to have Miss Feemy here a short time, Miss Lyddy?"

"Indeed, I'd have no objection, if mamma pleases, Father John."

"There, you see, Mrs. McKeon;--I am afraid I said something rude which set Miss Louey's back
up, but I am sure in her heart she'd be glad of anything that would be of service to Feemy.
Come, Mrs. McKeon, will you drive over to Ballycloran this fine morning, and ask her?"

"But suppose she won't come?"

"Then it won't be your fault;--you can tell her it's just for the races and the ball you're
asking her--that she may see Mr. McKeon's horse win the race, and dance with Ussher at the
ball afterwards. Oh! if you mean her to come, she'll come fast enough;--let you alone for carrying
your point when you're in earnest. I know your way of asking, when you don't mean to take a
refusal;--and to give you your due this day, I never heard you give an invitation you didn't
mean to be accepted."

"Well, Father John, as you think it will be of so much service to Feemy, and as, as you say,
she has no mother, poor girl, of her own, and no female friend that she can look to, I'll ask
her over here. But it mustn't be for a week or a fortnight, but till the affair of Captain
Ussher is finally settled. And if the girl behaves herself as she ought, when once she is here,
Tony won't see her wronged by any man."

"That's my own friend!" said Father John with tears in his eyes. "What could any poor priest
like me do in a parish, if it wasn't that there were such women as yourself to help him?"

"But, Father John--whisper here," and she took him aside into the window, and spoke in a low
voice; "you can't have helped hearing the stories people have been talking about Feemy. As
I have heard them, of course you must."

"Heard them! of course I have--but you know what lies get talked abroad."

"But they say she walks with him after dark; and goes in and out there at Ballycloran, at all
hours, just as she pleases. Of course I can have none of those doings here."

"Of course not; it is because she has no one there to tell her what is right or wrong that
I wish her to be here. Of course you have regular hours here, and you'll find you'll have no
difficulty with her that way."

"Well, Father John, I've only one more thing to say, and you'll answer me that as a priest
and a Christian. God knows, I wouldn't believe any ill-natured story against any poor girl
situated as Feemy is; but you know, such things will get about:--people say Ussher speaks of
her as his mistress, instead of as his wife. Now, Father John, if this unfortunate girl, whom
I'm ready and willing to help, has done anything really wrong, you would not be the means of
bringing her into the house with my own dear girls! Have you, Father John, told me all you
know about her attachment to this man?"

"Indeed then if she was unfit to associate with your girls, Mrs. McKeon, I'd be the last man
on earth to ask you to invite her here. If Feemy has been imprudent in going out too much alone
with Ussher, it's the most that with truth can be said against her; and as you ask me to tell
you all, I'll tell you one thing I didn't wish to mention before the girls." And Father John
told her how Thady had got drunk, and insulted Ussher, telling him not to come to Ballycloran
again, and all that: but he did not tell her how strongly he suspected that Thady was right
in his fears for his sister, and that his chief object in getting Feemy away from Ballycloran
was to remove her as far as possible from Ussher's influence.

"Well, Father John, I'll go to Ballycloran, and ask her here; I suppose she'll hardly be ready
to come to-day, but if she pleases, I'll drive over again for her after to-morrow. I'll go
now and talk Louey over, for you and she seem to have quarrelled somehow."

"And God bless you, Mrs. McKeon; it's yourself is a good woman; and you never did a kinder
action than the one you're going to do this morning!" and Father John took his leave.

The breakfast party at Ballycloran the morning after the wedding was not a very lively one;
indeed the meals at Ballycloran seldom were very gay, but this was more than usually sombre.

