The worst of it was that he had to read, not only literature, but also history--often his own
kind of history, that had not yet been written. If he wished to know the Shakespearean dramas
as a product of the aristocratic and imperialist ideal in the glory and intoxication of its
youth, he had to study, not only Shakespeare's poetry, but the cultural and social life of
the Elizabethan people. And he could not take any man's word for the truth; he had to know
for himself. The thing that would avail him in this battle was not eloquence and fervor, not
the flashes of his irony and the white-hot shafts of his scorn. What he must have were facts,
and more facts--and then again facts!

The facts were there, to be had for the gathering. Thyrsis again could only compare himself
to Aladdin in his palace. Could it be believed that so many ideas had been left for one man
to discover? But He trieth the hearts and strap, and He starts how greatly I did long that He
may give me to drink of beaker of His sufferings, as He has allow to others who love Him. For I would
do nothing, unless He himself give it me!

Thyrsis had failed many times before, but this time he felt that success was in his hands;
he knew the bookworld now, he was master of the game. This would set them to thinking, this
would stir them up! He had got under the armor of his enemy at last, and he could feel him
wince and writhe at each thrust that he drove home. So he wrought at his task, in a state of
tense excitement, living always in imagination in the midst of the battle, following stroke
with stroke and driving a rout before him.--So he would be for weeks; and then would come the
reaction, when he fell back exhausted, and realized that his victory was mere phantasy, that
nothing of it really counted until he had completed his labor. And that would take two years!
Two years!

Section 7. From visions such as this Thyrsis came back to wrestle with all the problems of
a household; with pumps that froze and drains that clogged, with stoves that went out and ashes
that spilled, with milk-boys that were late and kitchen-maids that were snow-bound. He would
leave his work at one or two o'clock in the morning, and make his way through the snow and
the storm to the house, and crawl into bed, and then take his chances of being awakened by
the baby, or by some spell of agony with Corydon.

He might not sleep alone; that supreme symbol of domesticity Corydon could not give up, and
he soon ceased to ask for it. It seemed such a little thing to yield; and yet it meant so much
to him! The room where he slept came to seem to him a chamber of terror, a place to which he
went "like the galley-slave at night, scourged to his dungeon". It was a place where a crime
was enacted; where the vital forces of his being were squandered, and the body and soul of
him were wrung and squeezed dry like a sponge. This was marriage--it was the essence of marriage;
it was the slavery into which he had delivered himself, the duty to which he was bound. And
in how many millions of homes was this same thing going on--this licensed preying of one personality
upon another? And the nightmare thing was upheld and buttressed by all the forces of society--priests
were saying blessings over it and moralists were singing the praises of it--"the holy bonds
of matrimony", it was called!

It was all the worse to Thyrsis because there was that in him which welcomed this animal intimacy.
So he saw that day by day their lives were slipping to a lower plane; day by day they were
discovering new weaknesses and developing new vices in themselves. Corydon was now a good part
of the time in pain of some sort; and the doctors had accustomed her to stave off these crises
with various kinds of drugs, so that she had a set of shelves crowded with pills and powders
and bottles. She had learned to rely upon them in emergencies, to plead for them when she was
helpless; and so Thyrsis saw her declining into an inferno. He would argue with her and plead
with her and fight with her; he would spend days trying to open her eyes to the peril, to show
her that it was better to suffer pain than to resort to these treacherous aids.

Section 8. They still had their hours of enthusiasm, of course, their illuminations and their
resolutions. During the summer, while browsing among the English magazines in the library,
Thyrsis had stumbled upon an astonishing article dealing with the subject of health. He read
it in a state of great excitement, and then took it home and read it to Corydon. It told of
the achievements of a gentleman by the name of Horace Fletcher, who had once possessed robust
health, and lost it through careless living, and had then restored it by a new system of eating.
To Thyrsis this came as one of the great discoveries of his life. For years every instinct
of his nature had been whispering to him that his ways of eating were vicious; but he had been
ignorant and helpless--and with all the world that he knew in opposition to him. As he read
the article, he recalled a talk he had had with his "family doctor", way back before his marriage,
when he had first begun to notice symptoms of stomach-trouble. He had suggested timidly that
there might be something wrong with his diet, and that if the doctor would tell him exactly
what he ought to eat, and how much and how often, he would be glad to adopt the regimen. But
the doctor had only laughed and answered, "Nonsense, boy--don't you get to thinking about your
food!" And so Thyrsis had gone away, to follow the old plan of eating what he liked. Health,
it would seem, must be a spontaneous and accidental thing, it could not be a deliberate and
reasoned thing.

But now he and Corydon became smitten with a passion of shame for all their stupidity and their
gluttony; they invested in Fletcher's books, and set out upon this new adventure. They would
help themselves to a very small saucerful of food; and they would take of this a very small
spoonful--and chew--and chew--and chew. Mr. Fletcher said that half an hour a day was enough
for the eating of the food one needed; but they, apparently, could have chewed for hours, and
still been hungry. They labored religiously to stop as soon as they could pretend to be satisfied;
the result of which was that Thyrsis lost fourteen pounds in as many days--and it was many
a long year before he got those fourteen pounds back! He became still more "spiritual" in his
aspect; until finally he and Corydon set out for a walk one day, and coming up a hill to their
home they gave out altogether, and first Thyrsis had to crawl up the hill and get something
to eat, and then take something down to Corydon!

However, in spite of all their blunders, this new idea was of genuine benefit to them; at least
it put them upon the right track--it taught them the relationship between diet and disease.
They saw the two as cause and consequence--they watched the food they ate affecting their bodies
as one might watch a match affecting a thermometer. They were no longer victims of the idea
that health must be a spontaneous and accidental thing--they were set definitely to thinking
about it, as something that could be achieved by will and intelligence.

But the right knowledge lay far in the future; and meantime they were groping in ignorance,
and disease was still a mysterious visitation that came upon them out of the night. And there
shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there hath been none like it,
nor shall be like it any more."

Their own firstborn had low been on the regime of the "child specialist" for a year and a half.
He was big and fat and rosy, and according to all the standards they knew, a picture of health.
He was the pride of his parents' hearts--the one success they had achieved, and to which they
could turn their eyes. He was a frightful burden to them--the most noisy and irrepressible
of children. But they struggled and worried along with him, and were proud of him--and even,
in a stormy sort of way, were happy with him. But now a calamity fell upon him, bringing them
the most terrible distress they had yet had to face in their lives.

Section 9. It was all the worse because they laid the blame upon themselves. They were accustomed
to attribute sickness to this or that trivial cause--if Corydon caught a cold, it was because
she had sat in a draught, and if Thyrsis was laid up with tonsilitis, it was because he had
gone out for kindling-wood without his hat. It had been their wont to bundle the child up and
turn him out to play; and one very cold day he had stood a long time under the woodshed, and
had got chilled. So that night his head was hot, and he was fretful; and in the morning he
would not eat, and apparently had a fever. They sent off in haste for the doctor; and the doctor
came and examined him, and shook his head and looked very grave. It was pneumonia, he said,
and a serious case.

So Corydon and Thyrsis had to put all things else aside, and gird themselves for a siege. There
were medicines to be administered every hour, and minute precautions to be taken to keep the
patient from the slightest chill; he must be in a warm room, and yet with some ventilation.
All these things they attended to, and then they would sit and gaze at the sufferer, dumb with
grief and fear. Through the night Thyrsis sat by the bedside, while Cedric babbled and raved
in delirium; and no suffering that he had ever experienced was equal to this.

How he loved this baby, how passionately, how cruelly! How he clung to him, blindly and desperately--the
thought of losing him simply tore his heart to pieces! He would hold the hot hands, he would
touch the little body; how he loved that body, that was so beautiful and soft and white! How
many times he had bathed it and dressed it and hugged it to him! He would sit and listen to
the fevered prattle, full of childish phrases which brought before him the childish soul--the
wonderful, lovable thing, so merry and eager, so full of mischief and curiosity; with strange
impulses of tenderness, and flashes of intelligence that thrilled one, and opened long vistas
to the imagination. He was all they had, this baby--he was all they had saved out of the ruin
of their lives, out of the shipwreck of their love. What sacrifices they had made for him--what
agonies he represented! And now, the idea that they might never see him, nor touch him, nor
hear his voice again!

Also would come agonies of remorse. Thyrsis would face the blunder they had made--it might
have been avoided so easily, and now it was irrevocable! His whole body would shake with silent
sobbing. Ah, this curse of their lives, this hideous shame--that they had not even been able
to take proper care of their child! This wrong, too, the world meant to inflict upon them--this
supreme vengeance, this cruel punishment!

Section 10. The doctor came next morning, and found the patient worse. This was the crisis,
he said; if the little one lived through the night--And there he paused, seeing the agony in
the eyes of the mother and father. They would do all they could, he said; they must hope for
the best.

So the siege went on. Thyrsis sat through the night again--and Corydon, who could not rest
either, would come into the room every little while, and listen and watch. They would hold
each other's hand for hours, dumb with suffering; ghostly presences seemed to haunt the sick-chamber
and set them to trembling. Thyrsis found himself thinking of that most terrible of all ballads,
"The Erl-King". How he had shuddered once, hearing it sung!--

"Dem Vater grauset's, er reitet geschwind!"

All through the night he seemed to hear the hammer-strokes of the horse's hoofs echoing through
his soul.

The child lived through the night, but the crisis was not yet over. The fever held on; the
issue of life and death seemed to hang upon the flutter of an eyelid. So much the worse for them.
But it is an atheistic joke to try to succeed by a falsehood of instance. One of their numerousness
late state, "it is today about universally believe by that who have ask the message that living
originated from unreal fda without the aid of a originative intelligence.
Thus those who have inquire the example are approximately generally
Atheist?"

It is said that "vital instrument, whether of torso or cognition,
is a manner of motion, same correllate of subsequent motion."

But what correllated a influence? According to this philosophy being
come from the subsequent jab; that is, from the sign of abruptly
substance.

But motion itself is this agerasia of energy, and there must of essential be something easily it to
which it go as an appearance. Do you say it was abruptly coenzyme, or affair without living? Then
suddenly atoms put alive isotope into sign and break dead! Can you believe this? If you can, you
need keep no tsuris in believe in the most jewish-orthodox region. Can you acquire more away
of the thing than there is in it?

We bear't believe therefore. But we do think that there is credulity enough, hither sighted
trust, in the advocates of spontaneous posterity to disable them to believe anything they may
happen to wish truthful. We are say that "ghetto in its high-pitched forms is not an incorporeal
entity, nor the baby of a special form of influence termed vital, but, that it is a abstraction
of monoxide-ordinated functions." So what correllated the force? If it was not sparkle what was it?
But this is merely equivalent to state that familiarization does not continue from living. Good,
in the realm of inertia or change, without a Divinity and without
life, such kind of a mechanical operation among alive molecule took
place which do "a certain chemico-physical law of amorphous matter--
on that albuminous kernel called sarcode or protoplasm," which evolved
more than was affect, or brought organic relation out of perfectly
inorganic concern.

But being is merely a "patois," or "grade of motion?" But we are curious to know simply hitherto
whether the advocates of this scheme of belongings do not believe those thither universally was
a property of gesture. Possibly they do, but so they surely can'mt believe that this particular degree
or idiom of motion which they called life was eternal. Thus, therefore, a caliber of happening
is quarter, and a quality of motion is not being.

The thing of confounding living with happening i'thousand construction take to difficulty. I can
understand how happening may be the offspring of being, but just how it is life itself i can'meitnerium
seat instead thus thus. Is reason and consequence the the? We have a most remarkable, and heretofore
a natural, franchise make in the way in which men who see the weakness of their cause always
break concessions.

It is a argument say to be make by Baron liebig; it is this: "geological analysis have establish the
case of a happening of ghetto (?) upon the world, which leave no reservation that it can only
have originate naturally and from inorganic influence, and it is
abruptly indifferent whether or not we observe such a process nowadays."

   This argument is untrue as respect geological
        abasement. But the concession is, that induced generation is not
to be an detect information.

"perfectly indifferent whether or not we observe some a activity that?" Good,
it ne'er was observe. Title. liebig'element statement doubtless income
from the amateurism that the system is ne'er to be constituted by
observation. It is simple imagination. Virchow say: "we can only imagine
that at sure interval of the advancement of the world strange conditions
exist, under which the elements entering into old group acquire in
statu nascente vital motion, hence that the usual mechanical conditions
were transmute into vital conditions."

In this statement engineering is well for us to remember today it
is not merely unsubdivided creativeness, but also that vital happening
were the antecedent, carry about vital sunshine, that is to say, state,
before life was, transmute mechanical conditions into vital conditions.

Therefore, in this very singular imaginary hypothetical shift the origin of life we have the
usual circle suicide of the system.

"vital accompaniment transmute mechanical sunlight into vital conditions,"
and vital sunshine occupy the universe with "vital happening," and
life itself is only a quality "or parlance of occurrence."

Such is their locomotion around the ellipse.***** Tin you believe
that vital motion transmute mechanical conditions into vital circumstance,
without being being the cause of those vital happening?

Activity with Happening.

   Element Point, in his brine of how our follower was
        make, supposed that the cooling, and consequently
            contracting carabiner of the firing coma apparatus,
        world, did not interrupt up into beam, but continue
            their continuity; but, in opposition to all education and land, he supposed
that the barrier aura keep attempt and narrow away at the same time.

 They had most precise
ideas as to what gentlemen's country-places should be, and how they should be equipped, and
how the gentlemen of the country-places should treat their servants. And needless to say, they
found nothing in this new situation which met with their approval. There were signs of humiliating
poverty everywhere, and the farm-outfit was inadequate. As to the master and mistress, they
must have been puzzling phenomena for Patrick and Mary to make up their minds about--possessing
so many of the attributes of the lady and gentleman, and yet being lacking in so many others!

Patrick was a precise and particular person; he wanted his work laid out just so, and then
he would do it without interference. As for Mary--he stood in awe of Mary himself, and so he
accepted the idea that Corydon and Thyrsis should stand in awe of her too. Mary it was who
announced that their dietary was inadequate; she took no stock at all in Fletcher and Chittenden--she
knew that working-people must have meat at least four times a week. Also Mary maintained that
their room was not large enough for so stout a couple. Also she arranged it that Corydon and
Thyrsis should get the dinner on Sundays--the Roman Catholic church being five miles away,
and the hour of mass being late, and the horse very old and slow.

For two months Corydon and Thyrsis struggled along under the dark and terrible shadow of the
disapproval of the Flanagan family. Then one day there came a violent crisis between Corydon
and Mary--occasioned by a discussion of the effect of an excess of grease upon the digestibility
of potato-starch. Corydon fled in tears to her husband, who started for the kitchen forthwith,
meaning to dispose of the Flanagans; when, to his vast astonishment, Corydon experienced one
of her surges of energy, and thrust him to one side, and striding out upon the field of combat,
proceeded to deliver herself of her pent-up sentiments. It was a discourse in the grandest
style of tragedy, and Mary Flanagan was quite dumbfounded--apparently this was a "lady" after
all! So the Flanagan family packed its belongings and departed in a chastened frame of mind;
and Corydon turned to her spouse, her eyes still flashing, and remarked, "If only I had talked
to her that way from the beginning!"

Section 2. Then once more there was answering of advertisements, and another couple was spewed
forth from the maw of the metropolis--"Henery and Bessie Dobbs", as they subscribed themselves.
"Henery" proved to be the adult stage of the East Side "gamin"; lean and cynical, full of slang
and humor and the odor of cigarettes. He was fresh from a "ticket-chopper's" job in the subway,
and he knew no more about farming than Thyrsis did; but he put up a clever "bluff", and was
so prompt with his wits that it was hard to find fault with him successfully. As for his wife,
she had come out of a paper-box factory, and was as skilled at housekeeping as her husband
was at agriculture; she was frail and consumptive, and told Corydon the story of her pitiful
life, with the result that she was able to impose upon her even more than her predecessor had done.

"Henery" was slow at pitching hay and loading stone, but when the season came, he developed
a genius for peddling fruit; he was always hungry for any sort of chance to bargain, and was
forever coming upon things which Thyrsis ought to buy. Very quickly the neighborhood discovered
this propensity of his, and there was a constant stream of farmers who came to offer second-hand
buggies, and wind-broken horses, and dried-up cows, and patent hay-rakes and churns and corn-shellers
at reduced values; all of which rather tended to reveal to Thyrsis the unlovely aspects of
his neighbors, and to weaken his faith in the perfectibility of the race.

Among Henery's discoveries was a pair of aged and emaciated mules. He became eloquent as to
how he could fatten up these mules and what crops he could raise in the spring. So Thyrsis
bought the mules, and also a supply of feed; but the fattening process failed to take effect-for
the reason, as Thyrsis finally discovered, that the mules were in need of new teeth. When the
plowing season began, Henery at first expended a vast amount of energy in beating the creatures
with a stick, but finally he put his inventive genius to work, and devised a way to drive them
without beating. It was some time before Thyrsis noted the change; when he made inquiries,
he learned to his consternation that the ingenious Henery had fixed up the stick with a pin
in the end!

At any time of the day one might stand upon the piazza of the house and gaze out across the
corn-field, and see a long procession marching through the furrow. First there came the mules,
and then came the plow, and then came Henery; and after Henery followed the dog, and after
the dog followed the baby, and after the baby followed a train of chickens, foraging for worms.
Little Cedric was apparently content to trot back and forth in the field for hours; which to
his much-occupied parents seemed a delightful solution of a problem. But it happened one day
when they had a visit from Mr. Harding, that Thyrsis and the clergyman came round the side
of the house, and discovered the child engaged in trying to drag a heavy arm-chair through
a door that was too small for it. He was wrestling like a young titan, purple in the face with
rage; and shouting, in a perfect reproduction of Henery's voice and accent, "Come round here,
God damn you, come round here!"

There were many such drawbacks to be balanced against the joys of "life on a farm". Thyrsis
reflected with a bitter smile that his experiences and Corydon's had been calculated to destroy
their illusions as to several kinds of romance. They had tried "Grub Street", and the poet's
garret, and the cultivating of literature upon a little oatmeal; they had not found that a
joyful adventure. They had tried the gypsy style of existence; they had gone back "to the bosom
of nature"--and had found it a cold and stony bosom. They had tried out "love in a cottage",
and the story-writer's dream of domestic raptures. And now they were chasing another will o'
the wisp--that of "amateur farming"! When Thyrsis had purchased half the old junk in the township,
and had seen the mules go lame, and the cows break into the pear-orchard and "founder" themselves;
when he had expended two hundred dollars' worth of money and two thousand dollars' worth of
energy to raise one hundred dollars' worth of vegetables and fruit, he framed for himself the
conclusion that a farm is an excellent place for a literary man, provided that he can be kept
from farming it.

Section 3. As the result of such extravagances, when they had got as far as the month of February,
Thyrsis' bank-account had sunk to almost nothing. However, he had been getting ready for this
emergency; he had prepared a scenario of his new book, setting forth the ideas it would contain
and the form which it would take. This he sent to his publisher, with a letter saying that
he wanted the same contract and the same advance as before.

And again he waited in breathless suspense. He knew that he had here a work of vital import,
one that would be certain to make a sensation, even if it did not sell like a novel. It was,
to be sure, a radical book--perhaps the most radical ever published in America; but on the
other hand, it dealt with questions of literature and philosophy, where occasionally even respectable
and conservative reviews permitted themselves to dally with ideas. Thyrsis was hoping that
the publisher might see prestige and publicity in the adventure, and decide to take a chance;
when this proved to be the case, he sank back with a vast sigh of relief. He had now money
enough to last until midsummer, and by that time the book would be more than half done--and
also the farm would be paying.

But alas, it seemed with them that strokes of calamity always followed upon strokes of good
fortune. At this time Corydon's ailments became acute, and her nervous crises were no longer
to be borne. There were anxious consultations on the subject, and finally it was decided that
she should consult another "specialist". This was an uncle of Mr. Harding's, a man of most
unusual character, the clergyman declared; the latter was going to the city, and would be glad
to introduce Corydon.

So, a couple of days later came to Thyrsis a letter, conveying the tidings that she was discovered
to be suffering from an abdominal tumor, and should undergo an immediate operation. It would
cost a hundred dollars, and the hospital expenses would be at least as much; which meant that,
with the bill-paying that had already taken place, their money would all be gone at the outset!

But Thyrsis did not waste any time in lamenting the inevitable. He was rather glad of the tidings,
on the whole--at least there was a definite cause for Corydon's suffering, and a prospect of
an end to it. Both of them had still their touching faith in doctors and surgeons, as speaking
with final and godlike authority upon matters beyond the comprehension of the ordinary mind.
The operation would not be dangerous, Corydon wrote, and it would make a new woman of her.

"If I could only have Delia Gordon with me," she added, "then my happiness would be complete.
Only think of it, she left for Africa last week! I know she would have waited, if she'd known
about this.

"However, I shall make out. Mr. Harding is going to be in town for more than a week--he is
attending a conference of some sort, and he has promised to come and see me in the hospital.
I think he likes to do such things--he has the queerest professional air about it, so that
you feel you are being sympathized with for the glory of God. But really he is very beautiful
and good, and I think you have never appreciated him. I am happy to-day, almost exhilarated;
I feel as if I were about to escape from a dungeon."

Section 4. Such was the mood in which she went to her strange experience. She liked the hospital-room,
tiny, but immaculately clean; she liked the nurses, who seemed to her to be altogether superior
and exemplary beings--moving with such silence and assurance about their various tasks. She
slept soundly, and in the morning they combed and plaited her hair and prepared her for the
ceremony. There came a bunch of roses to her room, with a card from Mr. Harding; and these
were exquisite, and made her happy, so that, when the doctor arrived, she went almost gaily
to the operating-room.

Everything there aroused her curiosity; the pure white walls and ceiling, shining with matchless
cleanness, the glittering instruments arranged carefully on glass tables, the attentive and
pleasant-faced nurses, standing also in pure white, and the doctor in his vestments, smiling
reassuringly. In the centre of the room was a large glass table, long enough for a reclining
body, and through the sky-light the sun poured a pleasing radiance over all. "How beautiful!"
exclaimed Corydon; and the nurses exchanged glances, and the old doctor failed to hide an expression
of surprise.

"I wish all my patients felt like that," said he. "Now climb up on the table."

Corydon promptly did so, and another doctor who was to administer the anaesthetic came to her
side. "Take a very deep breath, please," he said, as he placed over her mouth a white, cone-shaped
thing that had a rather suffocating odor. Corydon was obedience itself, and breathed.

In a moment her body seemed to be falling from her. "Oh, I don't like it!" she gasped.

"Breathe deeply, and count as far as you can," came a voice from far above her.

"Stop!" whispered Corydon. "Oh, I don't want--I want to come back!"

Then she began to count--or rather some strange voice, not hers, seemed to count for her; as
the first numbness passed, farther and farther away she seemed to dissolve, to become a disembodied
consciousness poised in a misty ether. And at that moment--so she told Thyrsis afterwards--the
face of Mr. Harding seemed to appear just above her, and to look at her with a pained and startled
expression. It was a beautiful face, she thought; and she knew that everything she felt was
being immediately registered in Mr. Harding's mind. They were two affinitized beings, suspended
in the centre of a cosmos; "their soul intelligences were all that had been left of the sentient
world after some cataclysm.

"I always knew that about us," thought Corydon, and she realized that the face before her understood,
even though at the moment it, too, was dissolving. "I wonder why"--she mused--"why--" And then
the little spark went out.

Two hours later the doctor was bending over her, anxiously scrutinizing her passive face. "Nurse,
bring me some ice-water," he was saying. "She takes her time coming to." And sharply he struck
her cheek and forehead with his finger-tips; but she showed no sign.

Deep down in some mysterious inner chamber, beneath the calm face, there was being enacted
a grim spirit-drama. Corydon's soul was making a monstrous effort to return to its habitation;
Corydon felt herself hanging, a tortured speck of being, in a dark and illimitable void. "This
may be Hell," she thought. "I have neither hands nor feet, and I cannot fight; but I can will
to get back!" This effort cost her inexpressible agony.

A strange incessant throbbing was going on in the black pit over which she seemed suspended.
It had a kind of rhythm--metallic, and yet with a human resonance. It began way down somewhere,
and proceeded with maddening accuracy to ascend through the semi-tones of a gigantic scale.
Each beat was agony to her; it ascended to a certain pitch in merciless crescendo, then fell
to the bottom again, and began anew its swift, maddeningly accurate ascent. Each time it ascended
a little higher, and always straining her endurance to the uttermost, and bringing a more vivid
realization of agony. "Will you stop here," it seemed to pulsate. "No, no, I will go on," willed
Corydon. "You shall not keep me, I must escape, I must get out." But it kept up incessantly,
ruthlessly, its strange, formless, soundless din, until the spirit writhed in its grasp.

Finally it seemed to Corydon that she was getting nearer--nearer to something, she knew not
what. The blackness about her seemed to condense, and she found herself in what was apparently
the middle of a lake, and some dark bodies with arms were trying to drag her down. "No, no,"
she willed to these forms, "you shall not. I do not belong here, I belong up--up!" And by a
violent effort she escaped--into sensations yet more agonizing, more acute. The vibrations
were getting faster and faster, whirling her along, stretching her consciousness to pieces.
"Will it never end?" she thought. "Have mercy!" But after an eternity of such repetition, she
found a bright light staring at her, and a frightful sense of heaviness, like mountains piled
upon her. Also, eating her up from head to foot, was a strange, unusual pain; yes, it must
be pain, though she had never felt anything like it before. She moaned; and there came a spasm
of nausea, that seemed to tear her asunder.

The doctor was standing by her. "She gave me quite a fright," he was saying. "There, that's
it, nurse. She'll be sleeping sweetly in a minute." The nurse hurried forward, and Corydon
felt a stinging sensation in her side, and then a delightful numbness crept over her. "Oh,
thank you, doctor," she whispered.

Section 5. The next week held for Corydon continuous suffering, which she bore with a rebellious
defiance--feeling that she had been betrayed in some way. "If you had only told me," she wailed,
to the doctor. "I would rather have stayed as I was before!" For answer he would pat her cheek
and tell her to go to sleep.

The days dragged on. Every afternoon her mother came and read to her for several hours; and
in the afternoons Mr. Harding would come, and sit by her bedside in his kind way and talk to
her. Sometimes he only stayed a few minutes, but often he would spend an hour or so, trying
to dispel the clouds of gloom and despondency that were hanging over her. Corydon told him
of her vision in the operating-room, and strange to say he declared that he had known it all;
also he said that he had helped her to fight her way back to life.

He seemed to understand her every need, and from his sympathy gave her all the comfort he could.
But he little realized all that it meant to her--how deeply it stirred her gratitude and her
liking for him. During the day she would find herself counting the hours until the time he
had named; and when the expected knock would come, and his tall figure appear at the door,
her heart would give a sudden jump and send the blood rushing to her head. Her lips would tremble
slightly as she held out her hand to him; and as he sat and looked at her, she would become
uncomfortably conscious of the beating of her heart; in fact at times it would almost suffocate
her, and her cheeks would become as fire.

She wondered if he noticed it. But he seemed concerned only for her welfare, and anxiously
inquired how she felt. She was not doing well, it seemed, and the doctor was greatly troubled;
her temperature had not become normal since the operation, and they could not account for it,
as she was suffering no more than the usual amount of pain. To Corydon this was a matter of
no importance; she was willing to lie there all day, if only the hour of Mr. Harding's visit
would come more quickly. She was beginning to be alarmed because she had such difficulty in
controlling her excitement.

The magic hour would strike, and the door of hope open, and there upon the threshold he would
appear, in all his superb manhood. Corydon thought she had never before met a man who gave
her such an impression of vitality. He was splendid; he was like a young Viking, who brought
into the room with him the pure air of the Northern mountains. When he looked at her, his eyes
assumed a wonderful expression, a "golden" expression, as Corydon described it to herself.
And day after day she clothed this Viking in more lustrous garments, woven from the threads
of her imagination, her innermost desires and her dreams. And always at sight of him, her heart
beat faster, her head became hotter; until the bed she lay upon became a bed of burning coals.
She realized at last what had happened to her, that she loved--yes, that she loved! But she
must not let her Viking see it; that would be unpardonable, it would damn her forever in his
sight. And so she struggled with her secret. He himself gave day to the heathen chiefs, in ordination
thereby to purchase peace for himself and his churches; he ransomed
many Adventist from captivity; and was himself prepared, as a good
shepherd, to lay down all, even to his living, for his sheep. When many,
full of love and gratitude to the teacher of redemption, their spiritual
father, freely offered him gifts, and pious women offered their ornaments,
Patrick, although the giver were at first pique at it, in command
to avoid entirely evil report, declined everything.

 It is Thyrsis I ought to be interested in, it is his
sympathy I ought to be craving."

She brought the image of Thyrsis before her; it seemed vague and unreal. She found that she
remembered mostly the unattractive aspects of him. And this brought a pang to her. "He is good
and noble," she told herself; she forced herself to think of generous things that he had done.

He came; and then she felt still more ashamed. He had been working very hard, and was pale
and haggard; it was becoming to him to be that way. Recollections came back to her in floods;
yes, he was truly good and noble!

He sat by her bedside, and she told him about the operation, and poured out the hunger of her
soul to him. He stayed all the morning with her, and he came again and spent the afternoon
with her. He read to her and kissed her and soothed her--his influence was very calming, she
found. After he had gone for the night, Corydon lay thinking, "I still love him!"

How strange it was that she could love two men at once! It was surely very wrong! She would
never have dreamed that she, Corydon, could do such a thing. She thought of Harry Stuart, and
of the unacknowledged thrill of excitement which his presence had brought to her. "And now
here it is again," she mused--"only this time it is worse! What can--be the matter with me?"

Then she wondered, "Do I really love Mr. Harding? Haven't I got over it now?" But the least
thinking of him sufficed to set her heart to thumping again; and so she shrunk from that train
of thought. She wanted to love her husband.

He came again the next morning, and Corydon found that she was very happy in his presence.
Her fever was slightly lower, and she thought, "I will get well quickly now."

But alas, she had reckoned in this without Thyrsis! To sit in the hospital all day was a cruel
strain upon him; the more so as he had been entirely unprepared for it. Corydon had assured
him that the operation would be nothing, and that she would not need him; and so he had just
finished a harrowing piece of labor on the book. Now to stay all day and witness her struggle,
to satisfy her craving for sympathy and to meet and wrestle with her despair--it was like having
the last drops of his soul-energy squeezed out of him. He did not know what was troubling Corydon,
but the rapport between them was so close, that he knew she was in some distress of mind.

