"His Sunday aim is to reclaim Those that in vice are sunk. When Monday's come he selleth rum,
And gets them plaguey drunk."

This fine estate, extending then in the rear to the pond, was later owned by Mr. Charles W.
Greene a descendant of General Nathaniel Greene, of revolutionary war fame. He enlarged the
house and large wings, and established a successful boarding and day school for lads fitting
many of them for college. Possibly some here may recall that in the school building and the
grounds the first Papanti taught some of the parents of the rising generation to dance.

Among the men, since famous, who graduated from this school, are John Lathrop Motley, the historian,
and George William Curtis, the elegant writer and able editor. The scenes and characters in
Mr. Curtis's novel "Trumps" were drawn from our village. Dr. Randall, of Roxbury, but recently
deceased, who bequeathed $70,000 to Harvard University, was early a student at the school,
and also the two brothers of Margaret fuller, one of whom was afterwards a clergyman and a
chaplain in the Union Army. Mrs. Greene is referred to in an interesting article recently written
by a graduate of the school, as one "for whom no need of praise could scarcely be excessive,
as she was in sober truth a mother to every lad committed to her care."

This property was next purchased by the brothers John and George Williams, who resided there
for several years.

On the opposite side of Centre Street, near Green Street, can to-day be seen a two-story cottage,
with pointed roofs and dormer windows which in our day has been known as the Calvin Young house.
This building with its fresh paint and modern style can yet trace its history through a century
and a half of years. It was originally owned by Eleazer May who sold it in 1740 to Benjamin
Faneuil, nephew of Peter Faneuil, and in 1760 it became the property of his brother-in-law
Benjamin Pemberton.

We may readily believe that Peter Faneuil -- the Huguenot who in 1740 erected and gave to the
town of Boston the noted hall which bears his name -- often shared in the comforts and joys
of this home of his niece, Mrs. Susanna Pemberton. About the year 1802, this estate was purchased
by Dr. John C. Warren, son of Dr. John Warren, and nephew of General Joseph Warren, hero of
Bunker Hill, for a summer residence. He was one of the most distinguished surgeons of our country,
and for many years professor of anatomy and surgery at the Harvard Medical School. His name
was honored in the recent ether celebration, he having performed the first surgical operation
under ether in 1846, and to his sanction it owed its introduction throughout America and Europe.

The dwelling was at that time constructed after the West Indian style, with one and a half
front and two in the rear. An immense chimney buttressed the north side; a hall extended that
the center of the house, with doors opening on to piazzas at both ends; the windows in the
front rooms extended to the floor, all conducing to make it an ideal summer home. The elm,
linden, and horse-chestnut trees near the house were remarkable for size and symmetry.

Dr. Warren beautified the grounds with rare plants and shrubs imported from Europe; the extended
over many acres, including the present Hill, Parley Vale, Burrage, and Harris estates, and
to the line of the Providence Railroad. Captain Charles Hill purchased a portion of this estate
about the year 1830, and Mr. Calvin Young the residence in 1837, with the radical alterations
in the house, which are apparent to-day, were made.

About the year 1828, the Warren estate became the property of Samuel G. Goodrich, author of
many histories, books of travel, school and story books, the kindly, well-loved Peter Parley
of our childhood. What a delight it would be to welcome one more the monthly visit of "Merry
Museum and Parley's Magazine," to read the charming letters to "Billy Bump," and the adventures
of Gilbert Go Ahead, and puzzle out the charades and enigmas which tested out youthful wits!
It was Mr. Goodrich who cut the fine avenue through the ledges and woodland, and erected the
ample mansion in the grove, which later, because of financial embarrassment, he transferred
to Colonel Fessenden, and ultimately became the property of Mr. Abram French. Then it was that
Mr. Goodrich enlarged and improved the building which had been his gardener's cottage, among
the quaint and unique house now owned by Mr. George Harris. here he resided for several years,
accomplishing a large amount of literary work, which repaired his fortune, so that on his return
form Paris, where he was United States Ambassador, under President Fillmore, he purchased a
country-seat in Jube's Lane, now Forest Hills Street. Mr. Goodrich was in Paris at the time
of the abdication of Louis Philippe, was an intimate friend of M. Lamartine, and was of great
service through his wise diplomacy. Many of his works were afterwards translated into French
by M. de Boisson. While a resident here he was interested in local affairs, and was genial
in his relations with every one. It is related that on an occasion of a Fourth of July celebration,
he gave an after dinner toast, "To the ladies of Jamaica Plain, not so very plain either!"
Here we are tempted to linger for a little longer. We may not be permitted to enter within
the precincts of many of the old homes on our town, to view the veritable memorials and relics
of early days, but such has been the privilege of some of us in connection with the Harris
home. Through many generations of education and culture, treasures in books and music and pictures,
in furniture, plate, and china, have been collected and preserved, until the home has become
verily a museum of rare and beautiful works, whose possessor is eminently suited to these delightful
surroundings.

Nor can we fail to offer and appreciative and loving tribute to the two sisters who have long
been among our most learned and accomplished women, and have exemplified through their long
lives the quiet beauty and loveliness of true charity. The beautiful hill with the adjacent
vale on occupied by the estates of Mrs. Hook, Mrs. Pratt, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Sprague,
was in the early days the Harris homestead. Here Dr. Luther M. Harris, the father, was born.
Some of us remember his as the valued family physician, who, when burdened with the infirmities
of age, gave up his practice to Dr. George Faulkner.

