The narrative, which appeared to have been drawn up, or at least corrected, by the clergyman
who attended this unhappy woman, stated the crime for which she suffered to have been "her
active part in that atrocious robbery and murder, committed near two years since near Haltwhistle,
for which the notorious Frank Levitt was committed for trial at Lancaster assizes. It was supposed
the evidence of the accomplice Thomas Tuck, commonly called Tyburn Tom, upon which the woman
had been convicted, would weigh equally heavy against him; although many were inclined to think
it was Tuck himself who had struck the fatal blow, according to the dying statement of Meg
Murdockson."

After a circumstantial account of the crime for which she suffered, there was a brief sketch
of Margaret's life. It was stated that she was a Scotchwoman by birth, and married a soldier
in the Cameronian regiment--that she long followed the camp, and had doubtless acquired in
fields of battle, and similar scenes, that ferocity and love of plunder for which she had been
afterwards distinguished--that her husband, having obtained his discharge, became servant to
a beneficed clergyman of high situation and character in Lincolnshire, and that she acquired
the confidence and esteem of that honourable family. She had lost this many years after her
husband's death, it was stated, in consequence of conniving at the irregularities of her daughter
with the heir of the family, added to the suspicious circumstances attending the birth of a
child, which was strongly suspected to have met with foul play, in order to preserve, if possible,
the girl's reputation. After this she had led a wandering life both in England and Scotland,
under colour sometimes of telling fortunes, sometimes of driving a trade in smuggled wares,
but, in fact, receiving stolen goods, and occasionally actively joining in the exploits by
which they were obtained. Many of her crimes she had boasted of after conviction, and there
was one circumstance for which she seemed to feel a mixture of joy and occasional compunction.
When she was residing in the suburbs of Edinburgh during the preceding summer, a girl, who
had been seduced by one of her confederates, was intrusted to her charge, and in her house
delivered of a male infant. Her daughter, whose mind was in a state of derangement ever since
she had lost her own child, according to the criminal's account, carried off the poor girl's
infant, taking it for her own, of the reality of whose death she at times could not be persuaded.

Margaret Murdockson stated that she, for some time, believed her daughter had actually destroyed
the infant in her mad fits, and that she gave the father to understand so, but afterwards learned
that a female stroller had got it from her. She showed some compunction at having separated
mother and child, especially as the mother had nearly suffered death, being condemned, on the
Scotch law, for the supposed murder of her infant. When it was asked what possible interest
she could have had in exposing the unfortunate girl to suffer for a crime she had not committed,
she asked, if they thought she was going to put her own daughter into trouble to save another?
She did not know what the Scotch law would have done to her for carrying the child away. This
answer was by no means satisfactory to the clergyman, and he discovered, by close examination,
that she had a deep and revengeful hatred against the young person whom she had thus injured.
But the paper intimated, that, whatever besides she had communicated upon this subject was
confided by her in private to the worthy and reverend Archdeacon who had bestowed such particular
pains in affording her spiritual assistance. The broadside went on to intimate, that, after
her execution, of which the particulars were given, her daughter, the insane person mentioned
more than once, and who was generally known by the name of Madge Wildfire, had been very ill-used
by the populace, under the belief that she was a sorceress, and an accomplice in her mother's
crimes, and had been with difficulty rescued by the prompt interference of the police. Meanwhile broke
the covenant with Franziska Borsati without noise or disaster, like a beautiful Walk ends,
and although after the return of other friends and often like to regular meetings attended,
she led her life away from them. Now and then pointed a word, an exclamation, an action, the exhaustion
and consumption end of its existence, but kept they always peculiar to the gaiety and lightness.
She was beautiful, become beautiful, what will show more than simply beautiful. Full animation
of eye, hand and step, fully Maturity and consciousness, vanity, she showed only small and
playful, the whole amount and Attitude, acquired dignity, natural nobility. She was one of those
women, the sight of a Man's heart is still. She had something of the truth of the elements, and
some of the gloss and the pathetic loneliness of the great works of art. Life and experience they
had purified and collected, as some other dull and lower. Nevertheless, they wasted themselves;
predetermined for pleasure, she enjoyed all the more so the more a sense of being full desire
to approached her with seductive lines. She moved into the larger world, as if it is would be
born, and the outer side of their existence was no secret, it was said by her in all lounges
and coffee houses, what they enraptured, she stressed, charmed, held in suspense was the friends,
especially Borsati and Hadwiger, a mystery, and the obvious as the hidden gave rise to fears
of all kinds, especially since her health is not was the best. As she once wanted to bring
Hadwiger to his senses, she assured him, that they hardly even know what she would drive, perhaps
it was the death, every thought the death drive them wild into life. Years ago she was dancing
at a country wedding, while in the village began to burn the houses, women and men were hurried
away, but they had a Geiger tossed a gold piece, and that he played on and with her dancers still
swung until the firelight blazed close to the windows.

So they chatted with tasting of a hat, and Hadwiger went to her because
she is causing so empty spoke to him in the interval between two dances.

Then she called him again, in the interval between dances, joined sister on her heart and cherished
his discreet compassion in unintended cruelty.

One day she gave the role of Marianne in Goethe's siblings.

Lamberg was in the theater, and it seemed as if speaking from the scene down to him alone.
A certain amount of drag on Fatigue, blurred the loveliness of the character and gave her an unwelcome
train of melancholy. In an annoyed Lamberg. After the performance he expected Franziska at the stage
entrance. Her guilty smile made his lecture obsolete. There was something sad about its like
on a winter rose, which must shun the open window. Lamberg took her to his House hosted it,
and his unexpected heat took Franziska. It was a beautiful summer night, they walked in the
garden, joking and philosophizing. Finally she told him that the Armansperg Prince, Heir, owner of
a hundred million fortune, Mr Günderau on, Weilburg Castle Gamming to have stopped her hand.
His relatives, disconsolate over put this decision, every effort to prevent him from running,
and she herself was through their machinations and intrigue sentenced to involuntary suffering.
Lamberg mentioned that he knew by sight the prince, one of the Armanspergschen goods was far
from his country home in the mountains. He estimated it to sixty, but determination to trust
him enough for a family revolution to be able to make head.

Once again forgotten who opposed the carefree soul to God, for the
sake of Eros again: short hours.

He may count the hours, hiding his face serene, when the morning dawn, then he will send to sleep,
and the sober sun filled him with grief so much Pleasure that was. "Who knows if I love you all,"
said Frank, "perhaps want to 'convince me I only whether a real man's heart is in you. "-" Can
you achieve this certainty, "he said in his always thoughtful article on distance and they again:
"blood and breath are already a bit if you can feel it. Hide yourself in not so your cool
because you're not as strong as you stand. "

Shortly after that in the higher circles of society appeared a man
who Riccardo Troyer called it, was considered by many to be a Dane,
by others as an Italian, and its wealth by a lavish lifestyle seemed
unquestionable.

It boasted his seductive manners, and the impression of its body structure is confirmed by extending
liability infirmity hardly diminished, it said, and he limps fact, as Lord Byron was, but,
as Lord Byron, while an accomplished rider, swimmer and fencer. Whom the reference to a romantic
predict genius of a hundred years of fame did not want to, which was assured that Riccardo Troyer
in modern coinage to do nothing could remain, as it by exchanges and mining speculation large
scale had come to his fortune. Legends of adultery and kidnapping, which A suspicious value is usually
adhered was distributed agile, young of suicides Women and girls by means of water, poison, lintel
and coal gas, and the upper region of humanity, which is so suspicious acts against a local tails of
last year was blinded before that the last foreign fashion, worn by a magician without equal
was, not even the news of all sorts of daring financial transactions and exchange transactions could
affect the glory of the stranger.

At the time when the rumor the name of Franziska's combine careful with the adventurer began Lamberg
stayed for weeks in the country. He had encouraged the friends to visit him, and the end of August
because of the annoying crowd of holidaymakers had already disappeared,
met every one.

Cajetan had come three days before the others, from Rome and stayed with Lamberg, Borsati Hadwiger
and took lodgings in a charming little hotel down the lake, a Wegviertelstunde Lamberg away from
Villa. It was one afternoon, the friends sat drinking tea in the garden house had been under
huge maple trees, and Cajetan just told that he at Countess Seewald, the sister of Prince Armansperg,
made a visit and Frank saw and volatile have spoken, as they themselves came up the meadow, in their
splendid upright posture, to see with the blue silk cap and the colorful hat like a walking flower.
She welcomed the friends, they sat down to drink tea and chatted in the coveted vividly excited
Art wants to hide, internal unrest and haste. "Now what? So will you leave us? " Borsati asked with
a tender reproach. Frank replied softly, "You shall have a souvenir I have. "-" We have always,
"Borsati gallantly assured. She let the memory full rest look in his eyes and repeated: "You shall
have a keepsake from me."

She had already taken leave, volatile seemed to claim as an opportunity, as returned they go back
and said, "you want to be together again here today in a year? Do you want it? I promise you,
come.

"The friends looked at each other in wonder on, but Frank continued: "Today is the first of September,
- that is the same throughout the year Days I'm back, and before me you will probably miss.
Let the conspiracy, let's do it like the brothers in the tale, says yes and I'm happier away
from you. "

"Must it really be on the same day," asked Cajetan.

"Certainly, only then it is binding," she said.

The promise was made by everyone in her hand and she left. All of you looked affected and sympathetic
to, as it hurried down almost fly quickly to wreathe path. She drove the next day back to the city,
and hardly a week had passed, it brought all the papers the news that Frank, the beautiful actress,
had disappeared with Riccardo Troyer. The news caused consternation very reason, because the
marriage with Franziska Prince Armansperg considered imminent, and the daring of such a connection
had wanted to forget. It was known to say that the prince prevents beside himself, and only with
difficulty had been to let the police track the adventurer. He was on the event is not in at
least been prepared, some warnings he had received contempt, but by the Hour after he retired
from the world and lived alone.

While all this was happening, Lamberg received a package and a letter Franziska. The Touched the letter
occurred twist of fate and not a word was as short as he ever could only be. "I give to you,
George Vincent, Henry, Rudolf and Cajetan goodbye and to commemorate the golden mirror of Aphrodite,
to me an expensive and now deceased friend has given. I told you once about it, bad as it seems
to me, otherwise you would come to watch the wonderful thing. The mirror is to include anyone and
everyone, no a privilege to have it because you give me all the same value and a happy feeling
for me is to know him as a symbol of my love and gratitude in your possession. Good-bye, do
not forget your promise, and sometimes thinks of your creation, your sister, your ever faithful
Frank. "

The mirror was in fact an excellent beautiful piece. He was in about the year 1820 Ruins of a
Cretan palace was found, came in the famous collection Diatopulos and fifty years later came
into the hands of the Duke of Casale. In 1905, after the death of the Duke was to pay off its
debt burden, the mirror along with many other Art objects for auction
in Paris, and there he had the unknown admirer Franziska acquired.

The friends agreed then that each of them a mirror for a period of three months to house under
one roof. Would not they be men of taste and spirit have been Franziska's administration would
have easily can cause nuisance. No one had security; to whom the Turn came, which was put out prior knowledge
of the illusory his right. Commonly makes the possession of other things, here, where the profit
has caused the loss, holding uncertainty slippage in the back always good double life. Frank had
the gift in a they were granted, it would grow no concern for others, and if the chosen one the
peace of indifference is not without a long time.

Thus, the receiving gifts and Beraubtwerden the same amount of significant pain.

Frank remained as lost. Among her numerous acquaintances, no one had heard of her, and the holidays,
they made the theater had long been exceeded. It was said that the prince Armansperg I can do
about Riccardo Troyer extensive research, leading to a questionable results were out. Gradually,
it also was silent. In July, the Hadwiger some time in Paris and heard that Troyer during the
Spanish-Moroccan War as an agent of an English gun factory have been active in Madrid that he fraud
been committed and driven out of the country is. Hadwin could not forget he was not able to
find the Irrevocable.

He resented the good fortune his mind was darkened, and to released from the mind games to
be, he worked day and night.

So went on the small and the great life. In July Lamberg was referring to his villa in the mountains. With
a cook, the servant Emil and a monkey, he left the city. The monkeys had recently by a Dutch
merchant and was formally received in love with him.

It was Baam or a young chimpanzee who was the size of an eight-year-old boy. Through the conversations
with which even reckoned with animal he gained insight into the fullness of great humor, of which
of itself be taken seriously man is surrounded.

In the last week of August arrived Hadwiger, Borsati and Cajetan. They lived this time Both in the
guest house on the lake, as Cajetan wished not to be favored and the lovely Baroque Hotelchen as many
conveniences offered as Lamberg bachelor's home.

What was decided on the mirror

Seven Lakes, nestled between rocks and forests have a dark, protected by friendly links luminous
the other could see the eye of the viewer by each dominant summit.

Ways moved uphill and down, solid white way, cut, and girded the elongated Villages, accompanied
noisy streams, were lost in fields hatched, bridges and footbridges meandering and climbed
up to the powerful shaped mountains. Here's a garden, next to a wilderness, as a ruin, over
a huge wall in the north of bare stone giants, in the south a raised main glacial, so concluded
the image that harmoniously in the manner was great in all.

The glacier far compared to the entire expanse of a valley, a vast plateau, and a deep cut behind
the plateau away from him, was the Villa Lamberg. The moon in the sky, and through the open window,
eager voices speaking invaded the Silence of the landscape caused by the simplistic lines of the night,
ghostly removed appeared. The dinner was over, Borsati, Cajetan and Lamberg sat at the table,
Hadwiger in evident excitement went back and forth. He resented the friends that her so indifferently
were - because today was the day for which Frank had all been asked to rendezvous. She had not
come, and there was little reason to hope that they would come, Now, in the hours of the night.
Who knows where it is, who knows if she is alive, he thought sadly. Then he pondered how he could
so as to get the conversation to the considerations to direct that bothered him so painful. Had
he but during the period of one year that day, contrary lived, nothing
more, and the Word was Franziska him as both parties so irrevocably
appeared that no doubt mingled with his confidence.

Now it was evening, and it was a day passed like many other days before him. Why they do not
speak of her? he thought, and it is adjustable or cold?

What they call entertainment or that heart smoothness, it makes me often so strange?

He stopped in front of the golden mirrors are based on his rounds in recent weeks Lamberg was
returned, and watched in sullen loneliness the miracle of old.

It was a circular disc of weary gold, she was with raised arms of the Figure of a goddess taken
standing on a deliciously crafted turtle. The back the disc was the figure of a young man, apparently
a Narzissos, in the casual fine Art was sitting on a rock, two long
rods in the right arm and barely a hint of just gazed with a few strokes,
the outlines of his image engraved water.

Low on the edge was Greek letters in the word Leäna carved, which might be the name of the courtesan,
that once the mirror had owned as property. The whole work of art was about two hand lengths
high.

Cajetan got up, went to Hadwiger and put his arm on jovial gesture on his shoulder. "The female
figure is unique here," he said. "You really bears, each individual Muscle of her body with.
Do not you, Henry?

Here it is in the ease Movement, how to hold something, the possession
of the forces increased.

"

"It is a noble form," confirmed Lamberg, "to measure and how the old things have worked, you
have only the appearance turtle. What subtlety! Since no missing the train Nature but they are
mainly the idea of ​​a pedestal. "

"One is convinced that the load weighs not for that tank," said Cajetan.

Me, "seems at times," interjected Borsati, "that the Face of Aphrodite by a pale Gloss of the
color of the other cast takes off. "

Lamberg replied that he had also been observed. "But I do not know just what this, the Time has
inflicted, "he continued. "It is known however, that the sculptor Silanion Silver mixed in the ore
from which was the face of Jocasta to the paler shades death to suggest. And to express the rage
of Athanas, Aristonidas iron did in the Mass, which he produced a characteristic rust color.
Does it not look as if the Features of the Venus of an imaginary moon were irradiated? "

Hadwin, who showed little interest for this discussion, to look after
the Clock.

Lamberg began the view on and smiled. "Why are you smiling?" Hadwiger asked, frowning. - "Where
am Impatience remark, I must always smile, "Lamberg said with a warm tone. - "And you not feel?
You expect nothing? Shook "Lamberg head. - "And you also expect nothing? "turned so here Hadwiger
and amazed at the other two. "I've Franziska Request, "held at that time for a mood, known Cajetan.
- "Why did you then come '? Hadwiger asked almost sharply. - "First, because I am here with
pleasure, second, because I compelled by my word given was to take the serious mood, "was the
reply. - "And Also, Rudolf? "-" I never believe in programs and am suspicious of appointments,
because they bind and mostly "one-sided commitment," said Borsati.

Cajetan turned the conversation to Riccardo Troyer.

He was the infamous foreigners on several occasions in the society met and praised him as
a man of great world, a sovereign Power over the people in each case and by the frivolity and
be safe, whether it is outlawed or be seen, the characteristics of a demonic specificities so
clear in itself that you can not escape his influence. Borsati blamed the word of the demonic
Specificity as a youthful gibberish, in his experience are the so-called
demonic people outrageous comedians, nothing else.

But Cajetan continued undeterred and said he had not grasped the essence that has been made
to Franziska's last liaison, especially since the marriage with the old Armansperg not to
good end could have resulted.

"But it has never been" thrown away, exclaimed Hadwiger.

She has "not done in this case, Cajetan replied seriously and determined. "A Woman as she follows
unerring instincts, and even if she chooses the path to destruction, fate is more in it than we suspect.
She has never thrown away, that's true. Who submits to, can not throw away, and there is a loyalty
to the feeling that the is of higher rank than the loyalty to the person. "

It was now eleven o `clock and the three hotel residents leave of Lamberg. This stood on the
balcony and listened for a long time their voices echoing in the night. Far down there on the
road a cart rattled. George Vincent went outside, felt the grass and, as he found it dry, he predicted
in quiet for the next day bad weather. He then went to the upper floor of the house, opened the
door to a dark chamber and exclaimed: "Quäcola That was the name he had given to the chimpanzees.
The animal had a happy little cry listening. Lamberg unbolted the cage and the monkey followed
him out the chamber, down the stairs, into the lighted dining room. He sat down with smart-driven
Good behavior and looked eager for a bowl filled with fruits, which
stood on the table.

Lamberg nodded and reached for the monkey grabbed a plum and bit into it. However, had the roles
of that distant car approached, listened to George Vincent rushed to the window, then the door, the
coach stopped and Franziska looked pale face from the blow. Georg Vincent welcomed fully silent
surprise, and after he called the servant to luggage outlet, it led her into the house. "You
are as punctual as a midnight ghost," he said with a smile and a researcher in her face, whether
they have such a jocular conversation start was launched. She returned to the ghostly railroad
was wearing only the guilty, and since they have a long journey,
it was inevitable that they only at night had reached their destination.

"But why did not I notified?" He asked, and when they seemed surprised, he added quickly: "I
would usually expect you at the station."

She was wearing a dark robe. Their language had become quieter, the hand that the first Greeting into
his set, smaller, colder and harder. The mouth looked like many futile Words from fatigue, and
among the over-bright eyes were two pale shadow.

Lamberg looked at more attentive, they gave under his gaze, she asked, if she could stay a few days
in his house, and after he had already affirmed eagerly seized it with both hands, his rights
and stammered asking, "But do not ask me! Not only ask! "

He saw
first hand how important it was not to ask. That was not Frank, not
the more mischievous, sparkling Franziska, the lust for life. It was
a saddle, an infirm, a frail, with a last-holding forces up straight,
and she had needed a rest. As they fell down on the sofa, his head
burrowed in his arms and sobbed! Would have the non-transformed Frank
never cried, not through tears, through laughter than they would have
Quäcola, the Chimpanzees, led to a bewildered escape into the top
corner of the room.

Lamberg was walking and thought behind this misery
are dark realities. But he asked with no sight of his eye. There will
come the hour when it shattered her heart when she silent, he told
himself. His gentle encouragement managed to calm her.

The face glared at them, but made no answer; in a second or two afterwards, another, that of
a young lad, appeared beside the first, equally swart and begrimed, but having tangled black
hair, descending in elf-locks, which gave an air of wildness and ferocity to the whole expression
of the countenance. Lady Staunton repeated her entreaties, clinging to the rock with more energy,
as she found that, from the superstitious terror of her guide, he became incapable of supporting
her. Her words were probably drowned in the roar of the falling stream, for, though she observed
the lips of the young being whom she supplicated move as he spoke in reply, not a word reached
her ear.

A moment afterwards it appeared he had not mistaken the nature of her supplication, which,
indeed, was easy to be understood from her situation and gestures. The younger apparition disappeared,
and immediately after lowered a ladder of twisted osiers, about eight feet in length, and made
signs to David to hold it fast while the lady ascended. Despair gives courage, and finding
herself in this fearful predicament, Lady Staunton did not hesitate to risk the ascent by the
precarious means which this accommodation afforded; and, carefully assisted by the person who
had thus providentially come to her aid, she reached the summit in safety. She did not, however,
even look around her until she saw her nephew lightly and actively follow her examples although
there was now no one to hold the ladder fast. When she saw him safe she looked round, and could
not help shuddering at the place and company in which she found herself. They were on a sort
of platform of rock, surrounded on every side by precipices, or overhanging cliffs, and which
it would have been scarce possible for any research to have discovered, as it did not seem
to be commanded by any accessible position. It was partly covered by a huge fragment of stone,
which, having fallen from the cliffs above, had been intercepted by others in its descent,
and jammed so as to serve for a sloping roof to the farther part of the broad shelf or platform
on which they stood. A quantity of withered moss and leaves, strewed beneath this rude and
wretched shelter, showed the lairs,--they could not be termed the beds,--of those who dwelt
in this eyrie, for it deserved no other name. Of these, two were before Lady Staunton. One,
the same who had afforded such timely assistance, stood upright before them, a tall, lathy,
young savage; his dress a tattered plaid and philabeg, no shoes, no stockings, no hat or bonnet,
the place of the last being supplied by his hair, twisted and matted like the glibbe of the
ancient wild Irish, and, like theirs, forming a natural thick-set stout enough to bear off
the cut of a sword. Yet the eyes of the lad were keen and sparkling; his gesture free and noble,
like that of all savages. He took little notice of David Butler, but gazed with wonder on Lady
Staunton, as a being different probably in dress, and superior in beauty, to anything he had
ever beheld. The old man, whose face they had first seen, remained recumbent in the same posture
as when he had first looked down on them, only his face was turned towards them as he lay and
looked up with a lazy and listless apathy, which belied the general expression of his dark
and rugged features. He seemed a very tall man, but was scarce better clad than the younger.
He had on a loose Lowland greatcoat, and ragged tartan trews or pantaloons. All around looked
singularly wild and unpropitious. Beneath the brow of the incumbent rock was a charcoal fire,
on which there was a still working, with bellows, pincers, hammers, a movable anvil, and other
smith's tools; three guns, with two or three sacks and barrels, were disposed against the wall
of rock, under shelter of the superincumbent crag; a dirk and two swords, and a Lochaber axe,
lay scattered around the fire, of which the red glare cast a ruddy tinge on the precipitous
foam and mist of the cascade. The lad, when he had satisfied his curiosity with staring at
Lady Staunton, fetched an earthen jar and a horn-cup, into which he poured some spirits, apparently
hot from the still, and offered them successively to the lady and to the boy. Both declined,
and the young savage quaffed off the draught, which could not amount to less than three ordinary
glasses. He then fetched another ladder from the corner of the cavern, if it could be termed
so, adjusted it against the transverse rock, which served as a roof, and made signs for the
lady to ascend it, while he held it fast below. She did so, and found herself on the top of
a broad rock, near the brink of the chasm into which the brook precipitates itself. She could
see the crest of the torrent flung loose down the rock, like the mane of a wild horse, but
without having any view of the lower platform from which she had ascended.

David was not suffered to mount so easily; the lad, from sport or love of mischief, shook the
ladder a good deal as he ascended, and seemed to enjoy the terror of young Butler, so that,
when they had both come up, they looked on each other with no friendly eyes. Neither, however,
spoke. The young caird, or tinker, or gipsy, with a good deal of attention, assisted Lady Staunton
up a very perilous ascent which she had still to encounter, and they were followed by David
Butler, until all three stood clear of the ravine on the side of a mountain, whose sides were
covered with heather and sheets of loose shingle. So narrow was the chasm out of which they
ascended, that, unless when they were on the very verge, the eye passed to the other side without
perceiving the existence of a rent so fearful, and nothing was seen of the cataract, though
its deep hoarse voice was still heard.

Lady Staunton, freed from the danger of rock and river, had now a new subject of anxiety. Her
two guides confronted each other with angry countenances; for David, though younger by two
years at least, and much shorter, was a stout, well-set, and very bold boy.

"You are the black-coat's son of Knocktarlitie," said the young caird; "if you come here again,
I'll pitch you down the linn like a foot-ball." "You know what, Alex," she cried suddenly, "We do
before our departure still be a Podoliner evening. Specht and Mr. Ansorge to eat with us ... "

"Very good, but you can usually get one for a chat," said Hank to Arnold, whose hand he held
in his.

Arnold nodded. He suddenly felt a great affection for Hank.

The people were in the dark theater and disappeared in a cave.

Specht looked at the Door, had gone through the Beat. "Have you seen his shoulders," he muttered
to Arnold?; "And the face? She looks like a princess. "

One last guest came from one of the outdoor spaces, Hyrtl. Specht imagined, and it was agreed
that all three should eat after the theater at Hyrtl dinner.

Thirty-first chapter

Since then, the real motive Hyrtl of Arnold's stay in the city and knew him the story of Anna
Arnold Borromeo albeit reluctantly, yet without distortion, confirmed was, he not only had
respect for the young man (he respected and admired the Excellent war stories as a reader of the
general, who battles to win) but he also used every opportunity to
refer other Arnold and what he knew other tell embellished with fine
details that gave birth to his own imagination.

Hyrtl adorned with the best qualities of his friends by showing it recognized his friends and he
loved passionately, that is to say, all the people who keep him company rendered.

When the servant opened the door of Hyrtl apartment, a small yellow dog jumped up to greet out. The
equipment of the rooms showed all types and sizes of sofas and upholstered Chairs. On glass tables
were in the red, green, blue and yellow bottles and essences Perfumes, on the desk were elected
in neatness Siegel, watches, wallets, Appendage, rings, cans, chains,
and from all corners of each wall and stared photographs men's and
ladies with lovely signatures.

The bookcase stood against one small, old rooms organ.

In Hyrtl pale features trembling now fear that the guests leave him too soon could, for how much
he feared the lonely hours of the night!

This fear was it funny, something captivating and endearing stepped out of his creatures,
the more the hour advancing. In need of help, he clung to every smile of his guests.

Specht sat at the organ and joined the Windbalg.

From his school days he was master even with some familiar handles,
and he played a chorale-like sequence of chords.

Hyrtl praised his playing, he turned to Arnold and said, "I would
like to soon make known with a friend of mine, a Russian student.

"

"For what reason?"

"You two would fit together beautifully.

It gives me some pleasure to each other people to lead, to produce
stories. "

"The pure Alchimisterei," scoffed woodpecker.

"No, really,"
insisted Hyrtl, "Verena Hoffmann would like it."

"Verena Hoffmann?"
Said Specht. "The mark I yes. Lives are not at a certain Tetzner?
"

Yes. But it is a very proper relationship. "

Specht laughed. "Did
she's given you written? Absolutely! What does that mean? Should Incidentally,
be very rich, this Tetzner. "

"Yes. It is a rich landowner who has
become a nihilist. Whoever are distinguished by rank, or office, in or near the capital, usually attend
the morning levees of the Lord Commissioner, and walk with him in procession to the place where
the Assembly meets.

The nobleman who held this office chanced to be particularly connected with Sir George Staunton,
and it was in his train that he ventured to tread the High Street of Edinburgh for the first
time since the fatal night of Porteous's execution. Walking at the right hand of the representative
of Sovereignty, covered with lace and embroidery, and with all the paraphernalia of wealth
and rank, the handsome though wasted figure of the English stranger attracted all eyes. Who
could have recognised in a form so aristocratic the plebeian convict, that, disguised in the
rags of Madge Wildfire, had led the formidable rioters to their destined revenge? There was
no possibility that this could happen, even if any of his ancient acquaintances, a race of
men whose lives are so brief, had happened to survive the span commonly allotted to evil-doers.
Besides, the whole affair had long fallen asleep, with the angry passions in which it originated.
Nothing is more certain than that persons known to have had a share in that formidable riot,
and to have fled from Scotland on that account, had made money abroad, returned to enjoy it
in their native country, and lived and died undisturbed by the law.*

