Low lies the bay beneath my feet;
 The bergs sail out, a white-winged fleet,
 To where the sky and ocean meet.

 Their glacier mother sleeps between
 Her granite walls. The mountains lean
 Above her, trailing skirts of green.

 Each ancient brow is raised to heaven:
 The snow streams always, tempest-driven,
 Like hoary locks, o'er chasms riven

 By throes of Earth. But, still as sleep,
 No storm disturbs the quiet deep
 Where mirrored forms their silence keep.

 A heaven of light beneath the sea!
 A dream of worlds from shadow free!
 A pictured, bright eternity!

 The azure domes above, below
 (A crystal casket), hold and show,
 As precious jewels, gems of snow,

 Dark emerald islets, amethyst
 Of far horizon, pearls of mist
 In pendant clouds, clear icebergs, kissed

 By wavelets,--sparkling diamonds rare
 Quick flashing through the ambient air.
 A ring of mountains, graven fair

 In lines of grace, encircles all,
 Save where the purple splendors fall
 On sky and ocean's bridal-hall.

 The yellow river, broad and fleet,
 Winds through its velvet meadows sweet--
 A chain of gold for jewels meet.

 Pours over all the sun's broad ray;
 Power, beauty, peace, in one array!
 My God, I thank Thee for this day.

I

THE MOUNTAIN

In the summer of 1879 I was stationed at Fort Wrangell in southeastern Alaska, whence I had
come the year before, a green young student fresh from college and seminary--very green and
very fresh--to do what I could towards establishing the white man's civilization among the
Thlinget Indians. I had very many things to learn and many more to unlearn.

Thither came by the monthly mail steamboat in July to aid and counsel me in my work three men
of national reputation--Dr. Henry Kendall of New York; Dr. Aaron L. Lindsley of Portland, Oregon,
and Dr. Sheldon Jackson of Denver and the West. Their wives accompanied them and they were
to spend a month with us.

Standing a little apart from them as the steamboat drew to the dock, his peering blue eyes
already eagerly scanning the islands and mountains, was a lean, sinewy man of forty, with waving,
reddish-brown hair and beard, and shoulders slightly stooped. He wore a Scotch cap and a long,
gray tweed ulster, which I have always since associated with him, and which seemed the same
garment, unsoiled and unchanged, that he wore later on his northern trips. He was introduced
as Professor Muir, the Naturalist. A hearty grip of the hand, and we seemed to coalesce at
once in a friendship which, to me at least, has been one of the very best things I have known
in a life full of blessings. From the first he was the strongest and most attractive of these
four fine personalities to me, and I began to recognize him as my Master who was to lead me
into enchanting regions of beauty and mystery, which without his aid must forever have remained
unseen by the eyes of my soul. I sat at his feet; and at the feet of his spirit I still sit,
a student, absorbed, surrendered, as this "priest of Nature's inmost shrine" unfolds to me
the secrets of his "mountains of God."

Minor excursions culminated in the chartering of the little steamer Cassiar, on which our party,
augmented by two or three friends, steamed between the tremendous glaciers and through the
columned canyons of the swift Stickeen River through the narrow strip of Alaska's cup-handle
to Glenora, in British Columbia, one hundred and fifty miles from the river's mouth. Our captain
was Nat. Lane, a grandson of the famous Senator Joseph Lane of Oregon. Stocky, broad-shouldered,
muscular, given somewhat to strange oaths and strong liquids, and eying askance our group as
we struck the bargain, he was withal a genial, good-natured man, and a splendid river pilot.

Dropping down from Telegraph Creek (so named because it was a principal station of the great
projected trans-American and trans-Siberian line of the Western Union, that bubble pricked
by Cyrus Field's cable), we tied up at Glenora about noon of a cloudless day.

"Amuse yourselves," said Captain Lane at lunch. "Here we stay till two o'clock to-morrow morning.
This gale, blowing from the sea, makes safe steering through the Canyon impossible, unless
we take the morning's calm."

I saw Muir's eyes light up with a peculiar meaning as he glanced quickly at me across the table.
He knew the leading strings I was in; how those well-meaning D.D.s and their motherly wives
thought they had a special mission to suppress all my self-destructive proclivities toward
dangerous adventure, and especially to protect me from "that wild Muir" and his hare-brained
schemes of mountain climbing.

"Where is it?" I asked, as we met behind the pilot house a moment later.

He pointed to a little group of jagged peaks rising right up from where we stood--a pulpit
in the center of a vast rotunda of magnificent mountains. "One of the finest viewpoints in
the world," he said.

"How far to the highest point?"

"About ten miles."

"How high?"

"Seven or eight thousand feet."

That was enough. I caught the D.D.s with guile. There were Stickeen Indians there catching
salmon, and among them Chief Shakes, who our interpreter said was "The youngest but the headest
Chief of all." Last night's palaver had whetted the appetites of both sides for more. On the
part of the Indians, a talk with these "Great White Chiefs from Washington" offered unlimited
possibilities for material favor; and to the good divines the "simple faith and childlike docility"
of these children of the forest were a constant delight. And then how well their high-flown
compliments and flowery metaphors would sound in article and speech to the wondering East!
So I sent Stickeen Johnny, the interpreter, to call the natives to another hyou wawa (big talk)
and, note-book in hand, the doctors "went gayly to the fray." I set the speeches a-going, and
then slipped out to join the impatient Muir.

"Take off your coat," he commanded, "and here's your supper."

Pocketing two hardtacks apiece we were off, keeping in shelter of house and bush till out of
sight of the council-house and the flower-picking ladies. Then we broke out. What a matchless
climate! What sweet, lung-filling air! Sunshine that had no weakness in it--as if we were springing
plants. Our sinews like steel springs, muscles like India rubber, feet soled with iron to grip
the rocks. Ten miles? Eight thousand feet? Why, I felt equal to forty miles and the Matterhorn!

"Eh, mon!" said Muir, lapsing into the broad Scotch he was so fond of using when enjoying himself,
"ye'll see the sicht o' yer life the day. Ye'll get that'll be o' mair use till ye than a'
the gowd o' Cassiar."

From the first, it was a hard climb. Fallen timber at the mountain's foot covered with thick
brush swallowed us up and plucked us back. Beyond, on the steeper slopes, grew dwarf evergreens,
five or six feet high--the same fir that towers a hundred feet with a diameter of three or
four on the river banks, but here stunted by icy mountain winds. The curious blasting of the
branches on the side next to the mountain gave them the appearance of long-armed, humpbacked,
hairy gnomes, bristling with anger, stretching forbidding arms downwards to bar our passage
to their sacred heights. Sometimes an inviting vista through the branches would lure us in,
when it would narrow, and at its upper angle we would find a solid phalanx of these grumpy
dwarfs. Then we had to attack boldly, scrambling over the obstinate, elastic arms and against
the clusters of stiff needles, till we gained the upper side and found another green slope.

Muir led, of course, picking with sure instinct the easiest way. Three hours of steady work
brought us suddenly beyond the timber-line, and the real joy of the day began. Nowhere else
have I see anything approaching the luxuriance and variety of delicate blossoms shown by these
high, mountain pastures of the North. "You scarce could see the grass for flowers." Everything
that was marvelous in form, fair in color, or sweet in fragrance seemed to be represented there,
from daisies and campanulas to Muir's favorite, the cassiope, with its exquisite little pink-white
bells shaped like lilies-of-the-valley and its subtle perfume. Muir at once went wild when
we reached this fairyland. From cluster to cluster of flowers he ran, falling on his knees,
babbling in unknown tongues, prattling a curious mixture of scientific lingo and baby talk,
worshiping his little blue-and-pink goddesses.

"Ah! my blue-eyed darlin', little did I think to see you here. How did you stray away from Shasta?"

"Well, well! Who'd 'a' thought that you'd have left that niche in the Merced mountains to come
here!"

"And who might you be, now, with your wonder look? Is it possible that you can be (two Latin
polysyllables)? You're lost, my dear; you belong in Tennessee."

"Ah! I thought I'd find you, my homely little sweetheart," and so on unceasingly.

So absorbed was he in this amatory botany that he seemed to forget my existence. While I, as
glad as he, tagged along, running up and down with him, asking now and then a question, learning
something of plant life, but far more of that spiritual insight into Nature's lore which is
granted only to those who love and woo her in her great outdoor palaces. But how I anathematized
my short-sighted foolishness for having as a student at old Wooster shirked botany for the
"more important" studies of language and metaphysics. For here was a man whose natural science
had a thorough technical basis, while the superstructure was built of "lively stones," and
was itself a living temple of love!

With all his boyish enthusiasm, Muir was a most painstaking student; and any unsolved question
lay upon his mind like a personal grievance until it was settled to his full understanding.
One plant after another, with its sand-covered roots, went into his pockets, his handkerchief
and the "full" of his shirt, until he was bulbing and sprouting all over, and could carry no
more. He was taking them to the boat to analyze and compare at leisure. Then he began to requisition
my receptacles. I stood it while he stuffed my pockets, but rebelled when he tried to poke
the prickly, scratchy things inside my shirt. I had not yet attained that sublime indifference
to physical comfort, that Nirvana of passivity, that Muir had found.

Hours had passed in this entrancing work and we were progressing upwards but slowly. We were
on the southeastern slope of the mountain, and the sun was still staring at us from a cloudless
sky. Suddenly we were in the shadow as we worked around a spur of rock. Muir looked up, startled.
Then he jammed home his last handful of plants, and hastened up to where I stood.

"Man!" he said, "I was forgetting. We'll have to hurry now or we'll miss it, we'll miss it."

"Miss what?" I asked.

"The jewel of the day," he answered; "the sight of the sunset from the top."

Then Muir began to slide up that mountain. I had been with mountain climbers before, but never
one like him. A deer-lope over the smoother slopes, a sure instinct for the easiest way into
a rocky fortress, an instant and unerring attack, a serpent-glide up the steep; eye, hand and
foot all connected dynamically; with no appearance of weight to his body--as though he had
Stockton's negative gravity machine strapped on his back.

Fifteen years of enthusiastic study among the Sierras had given him the same pre-eminence over
the ordinary climber as the Big Horn of the Rockies shows over the Cotswold. It was only by
exerting myself to the limit of my strength that I was able to keep near him. His example was
at the same time my inspiration and despair. I longed for him to stop and rest, but would not
have suggested it for the world. I would at least be game, and furnish no hint as to how tired
I was, no matter how chokingly my heart thumped. Muir's spirit was in me, and my "chief end,"
just then, was to win that peak with him. The impending calamity of being beaten by the sun
was not to be contemplated without horror. The loss of a fortune would be as nothing to that!

We were now beyond the flower garden of the gods, in a land of rocks and cliffs, with patches
of short grass, caribou moss and lichens between. Along a narrowing arm of the mountain, a
deep canyon flumed a rushing torrent of icy water from a small glacier on our right. Then came
moraine matter, rounded pebbles and boulders, and beyond them the glacier. Once a giant, it
is nothing but a baby now, but the ice is still blue and clear, and the crevasses many and
deep. And that day it had to be crossed, which was a ticklish task. A misstep or slip might
land us at once fairly into the heart of the glacier, there to be preserved in cold storage
for the wonderment of future generations. But glaciers were Muir's special pets, his intimate
companions, with whom he held sweet communion. Their voices were plain language to his ears,
their work, as God's landscape gardeners, of the wisest and best that Nature could offer.

No Swiss guide was ever wiser in the habits of glaciers than Muir, or proved to be a better
pilot across their deathly crevasses. Half a mile of careful walking and jumping and we were
on the ground again, at the base of the great cliff of metamorphic slate that crowned the summit.
Muir's aneroid barometer showed a height of about seven thousand feet, and the wall of rock
towered threateningly above us, leaning out in places, a thousand feet or so above the glacier.
But the earth-fires that had melted and heaved it, the ice mass that chiseled and shaped it,
the wind and rain that corroded and crumbled it, had left plenty of bricks out of that battlement,
had covered its face with knobs and horns, had ploughed ledges and cleaved fissures and fastened
crags and pinnacles upon it, so that, while its surface was full of man-traps and blind ways,
the human spider might still find some hold for his claws.

The shadows were dark upon us, but the lofty, icy peaks of the main range still lay bathed
in the golden rays of the setting sun. There was no time to be lost. A quick glance to the
right and left, and Muir, who had steered his course wisely across the glacier, attacked the
cliff, simply saying, "We must climb cautiously here."

