The elder girls had been educated at a neighbouring high school, but left as soon as they were
seventeen, and after that there was no money to spare for music and painting lessons, such
as most girls continue as an interest and occupation long after schooldays are over.

Ruth and Mollie were kept busy teaching the babies and making clothes for the family--cutting
down Trix's dress to do duty for Betty; laboriously planning little pairs of knickers out of
trousers worn at the knees; patching, darning, covering-up, hiding over, turning and twisting;
making up something out of nothing, with the lordly sum of fifteen pounds a year each for dress
and pocket-money alike.  They had never known the luxury, dear to girlish hearts, of choosing
a garment simply because it was pretty or becoming.  Dark, useful remnants were their lot;
sailor-hats in summer, cloth toques in winter; stout, useful boots, and dogskin gloves which
stood a year's hard wear.

Many a time over had Mollie stretched forth hands and feet for her sister's inspection, quoting
derisively--

"`Her thickly--made country shoes could not conceal the slender contour of her ankles; her
rough gloves served only to reveal the patrician beauty of her hands.'  Look at that, my love--there's
contour for you! There's patrician beauty!  What rubbish those books do talk, to be sure!"

Many a time had the girls groaned together over their impecuniosity, and vaguely vowed to "do
something" to remedy their condition, until at last Ruth's unrest had reached the point of
action, and she determined to seize the first opportunity of a private conference with her mother.

It was not easy to secure a tete-a-tete in the house of Connor.  On this particular evening,
Trix was practising scales on the piano in the drawing-room, while Mollie read a novel, and
Betty lolled on the rug; the three boys were busy at lessons, or, as they eloquently described
it, "stewing," round the dining-room table.  Mr Connor was smoking his pipe and reading the
evening papers in his den at the back of the house; and the little, white-faced mother moved
incessantly from room to room, no sooner settled in one place than she was seized with an anxious
presentiment that she was needed elsewhere.

She was pretty still, in a pathetic, faded manner; and wherever she went she spoke loving,
gentle words, and met loving glances in response: but, alas, her efforts seemed rather distracting
than helpful!  She stroked Drummond's hair, and asked if he was sure his throat was better,
just as he was on the point of completing a difficult addition; she told her husband the tragic
history of the cook's impertinence, and handed him a heavy bill, when the poor man was enjoying
the first quiet rest of the day; she requested Mollie's advice about spare-room curtains at
the moment when long-separated lovers were united, and it was agony to lift one's eyes from
the page for the fraction of a second.

Husband and children alike answered gently and with courtesy, for, if there was little else,
there was plenty of love in this shabby household, and the little mother was the central figure
round which everything revolved; nevertheless, her departure was marked by half- involuntary
sighs of relief, as if a disturbing element had been withdrawn.

Ruth knew that she would have to bide her time until the younger members of the family had
retired to bed; but, too restless to settle down to any definite occupation, she drifted across
the drawing-room to where Trix sat, her fingers scrambling up and down the notes of the piano.
Trix was tall and lanky; she had grey eyes, set far apart, a retrousse nose, dotted over with
quite a surprising number of freckles, and an untidy shock of light-brown hair.

In years to come it was possible that she might develop into a pretty girl; at the present
moment she despised appearances, and certainly failed to make the best of her good points.
Now, as she sat by the piano-stool, with shoulders hunched up and head poked forward, she looked
so awkward and ungainly that Ruth's tried nerves suffered afresh at the sight.

"For pity's sake, sit up, Trix!" she cried sharply.  "You look a perfect object, bent double
like that!  You might be deformed, to look at your back!  If you go on like this, you will
grow so round-shouldered that you won't be able to get straight again, and how will you like that?"

Trix deliberately finished her scale, then faced her sister, and retorted pertly--

"Very much indeed, thank you--if you will only realise that I can't help it, and leave me alone!
I'd rather be a humpback at once, than be worried morning, noon, and night about deportment,
as I am now.  My back's my own; I can use it as I like!"

"It's wicked to talk like that, Trix, and very impertinent as well!  Who is to tell you of
your faults if we don't at home?  Other people look on, and say, `What a fright that girl looks!
How shockingly she carries herself!'  But they don't trouble to tell you about it, and it is
not very pleasant for us when you take it like this.  If we did not love you and care for your
interests--"

"Oh dear me," sighed naughty Trix, "then I wish you'd love me a little less!  I could bear
it quite well if you lost your interest, and left me in peace.  You and Mollie can do the beauty
show for the family; I am content to represent `intellect and common-sense.'  If you want something
to do, you might help me with a French exercise instead of nagging.  It's simply awful to-day;
and if I lose any more marks, it's all up with my chance of getting a prize.  Now, then--will
you, or won't you?"

Trix's method of asking favours was hardly as ingratiating as might be desired, and for a moment
the chances seemed all in favour of a refusal. The colour flamed in Ruth's cheeks, and her
black brows drew ominously near together.  She was fighting a hard battle against pride and
resentment; but, as was usually the case, the better self won.  She nodded back at Trix, and said--

"I will! ...  Run and bring your books.  We won't venture into the dining-room, for the boys
make such a noise that one can't hear one's own voice."

There was something very sweet in the absolute surrender of self-will, and Trix, who was the
most warm-hearted of mortals, promptly bounded up from her stool and flung her arms round her
sister's neck.

"You duck--you angel!  You shall nag at me as much as ever you like, and I'll never be cheeky
again.  It's brickish of you to worry about me at all; but I'll always be a fright, so what's
the use?  You are pretty enough for the family, Ruth.  Ella Bruce's brother watches behind
the curtains every Sunday to see you pass, and he says you are the prettiest girl he knows,
and are always so nicely dressed!"

"Poor, deluded mortal; may he be forgiven for his blindness!  I'm the shabbiest creature in
the parish!  It's very nice of him to watch; but I wish he would come out from behind the curtains
and let me see him.  I have not so many admirers that I can afford to have them hidden from
view.  What is he like, Trix; handsome?"

"Oh, well enough!  Ella thinks him a model, but he is too thin and lanky for my taste.  He
is not half good enough for you, Ruth, anyway.  You ought to marry a duke, and retrieve the
fortunes of the family!"

"I'm willing, my dear.  Produce him, and I promise you I will not stand in the way.  I could
do quite easily with being a duchess.  It would be so soothing to be called `Your Grace,' and
a coronet is peculiarly suited to my style of beauty.  I won't have you for a bridesmaid, though,
if you stoop like that.  Get your book, Trix, and let us set to work.  Better take advantage
of my good mood while it lasts."

Trix departed obediently, and returned with a pile of books, which she dropped upon the table
with a bang, which made the other occupants of the room start in their seats, and for the next
hour the two girls wrestled with the difficulties of an advanced Brachet exercise.  Truth to
tell, Ruth was not much more expert than Trix herself; but she was infinitely more exact, and,
by dint of hunting up back rules, and making endless references to the irregular verbs, the
result achieved was fairly correct.

It was ten o'clock.  Betty and the three boys had departed to bed; Mollie still sat gloating
over her novel, with a forefinger thrust into either ear to shut out the sound of the disturbing
discussion on moods and tenses.  Trix collected her books with a sigh, and prepared to go upstairs
in her turn.  She looked white and tired, and the freckles on her nose seemed darker and more
conspicuous than ever.

"Good-night, old Ruth!  Thanks, most awfully!  I'll do as much for you some day."

"Good-night, young Trix!  Mind you do.  I shall remind you when the time comes."

The door opened and closed; Ruth rose wearily, and laid her hand on Mollie's shoulder.  Such
a charming face was lifted to meet her glance-- so fresh, so bright, full of such dazzling
youth and vigour!  True, Mollie had been lazing all the evening while the others worked; but
as Ruth stood looking down at her she wondered for the hundredth time how it was that so little
was made of Mollie's beauty in comparison with her own.

The golden hair rippled back in a thick, soft wave; the grey eyes were large, and generously
lashed; the laughing lips parted, to show white, even, little teeth; yet a stranger, looking
for the first time at Mollie Farrell, rarely remarked upon her good looks.

"What a nice girl!  What a dear girl!  What a delightful creature!" they cried, according to
their different degrees of enthusiasm.  They wanted to know her, to have her for a friend,
and forgot to think of mere outward appearance.

"What a noise you have been making, Ruth!" said Mollie lazily.  "I can't think why you can't
be quiet when you get a chance!  This book is too exciting for words.  I told you how the lovers
quarrelled just after they were married, and he went abroad, thinking, of course, that she
didn't love him any more; while, of course, she simply adored the ground he trod on, but thought
that he had grown tired of her, while he was more madly in--"

Ruth gave an exclamation of impatience.

"Oh, what rubbish!  I don't believe such things are possible!  If they really loved each other,
do you suppose they could keep on pretending while they lived together every day, and when
it came to saying good-bye into the bargain?  Nonsense!  She'd break down and howl, and he
would comfort her, and take off his coat.  Look here, Mollie--go to bed!  I've waited all the
evening to have a talk with mother, and you are the only impediment left.  Take your book with
you if you like,--but go!"

Mollie rose, unwillingly enough.

"I know what you want to talk about," she said, looking into Ruth's face.  "I know; and it's
not a mite of use.  Mother won't let you leave home; she needs you far too much.  I shan't
go to sleep, for I shall want to hear every single word when you come upstairs.  I'll snoodle
up to the hot bottle, and read till you come."

The programme sounded very attractive,--to snoodle up to the hot bottle, and lie at ease reading
an interesting book,--much more attractive than to linger downstairs by the dying fire, and
discuss disagreeable problems with an anxious mother.  But Ruth did not waver in her decision,
and a few moments later Mrs Connor was caught paying a round of visits to the children's bedrooms--"just
in time," as Ruth thought whimsically, "to waken the poor souls from their first sleep!"--and
escorted back to the chair which Mollie had vacated.

"Is anything wrong, dear?" she asked nervously.  Poor little woman, if a surprise were in store,
it seemed so much more likely that it should be disagreeable rather than bright!  "You don't
feel feverish, or ill, or--"

"No, no, my dear; I just want to talk to you about my own affairs.  I'm quite well, and so
strong and--and grown-up, don't you know, that it is time I grew independent, and began life
on my own account.  You have Mollie at home, and Trix and Betty growing up, and I think, mother
dear, that I ought not to be dependent on the pater any longer.  He has been very good and
kind to us all these years; but, still--"

She hesitated, and Mrs Connor looked at her with anxious tenderness. She had honestly considered
the welfare of her two little girls as much as her own when she decided to marry a second time,
and it had been a constant joy to feel that her expectations had been fulfilled; yet here was
Ruth, her firstborn darling, her right hand in household affairs, actually talking of leaving home!

"Aren't you happy, Ruth?  Have you not been happy all these years?  I thought you were quite
content and satisfied."

She sighed; and Ruth gave an echoing sigh, and answered honestly--

"Quite happy, darling, as far as you and the pater are concerned.  He could not have been kinder
to us if we had been his very own daughters. But satisfied?  Oh no, mother; never satisfied
for a long time back! How could I be?  I don't want to seem ungrateful; but I'm only twenty-
one, and it has been all work and no play, and there are so many, many things that I want to
do, and see, and feel.  I've never been to a proper grown-up dance in my life, for if we have
been asked we have not had decent clothes to go in, and we never invite anyone here, so now
people have given over asking us even to quiet evenings.  I hardly ever speak to a soul outside
this house, and I get so tired of it all;--and only fifteen pounds a year for dress and pocket-money!
Remember what your allowance was when you were a girl, and all the jolly times you had, and
the parties, and the visits, and the trips abroad,--and then think of our lives.  It is dull
for us, isn't it, dear?"

Mrs Connor's pale cheeks flushed with a touch of offence.  Not having sufficient insight into
girls' natures to understand that there was nothing either undutiful or unnatural in Ruth's
lament, she felt herself personally injured thereby.

"Mollie is happy--Mollie is content!" she said briefly.

And Ruth assented with a brief "Yes," and said no more.

If the difference between Mollie's nature and her own was not patent to their own mother, it
was useless to enlarge upon it.  She waited a moment or two to regain composure, then continued
quietly--

"But that was not exactly the point.  I did not mean to speak of my own troubles.  What I feel
is that when business is so bad, it is not right for two grown-up girls to stay at home.  You
could get on without me, with a little extra help for sewing, and in time I might earn enough,
not only to keep myself but to help the others.  Honestly, now, don't you think I am right?
In my place, would you not feel it your duty to the pater to be independent, and lighten his
responsibility, if even by a little?"

Mrs Connor sat silent, torn between two thoughts--dread of parting from Ruth, and a longing
to help the overburdened husband, who had come as a rescuer in her own need.  No one but herself
guessed how it tore her heart to present him with fresh bills, or to ask for money for all
the thousand-and-one needs of a growing family.  Her very dread and nervousness made her choose
inappropriate moments for her requests, and Mr Connor's aloofness from the ordinary workaday
world made matters still more difficult.  He probably considered fifteen pounds a year a lordly
dress allowance for his two step-daughters; certainly he would not have noticed if they had
worn the same garments every day for years on end.  His own clothes lasted him for an incredible
period, and were always neatly brushed and folded.  It did not occur to him that girls needed
more change than himself.

Mrs Connor sat and pondered.  It was terrible to think of parting from Ruth, but the strain
of making both ends meet was becoming so acute that some method of retrenchment must inevitably
be found.  It is easy for rich people to cut down expenses--to give up carriage and horses,
dismiss two or three servants, and indulge in fewer pleasures and excitements; but it is a
very different matter when there are no superfluities with which to part, but only, as it seems,
the barest necessaries of life.  Mrs Connor's eyes filled slowly with tears as she stretched
out her hand and laid it over her daughter's.  It was the signal of capitulation, and Ruth
recognised it as such, and felt a sinking of the heart.

"You will let me go, mother?" she asked.

And Mrs Connor answered brokenly--

"If I must, I must!  You would come home for the holidays: we should not lose you altogether.
But oh, Ruth, not yet!  Wait until the beginning of the term.  Years ago, when things were
at their very worst with me, and I did not know where to turn for help, God sent my dear husband
to take care of me and you two babies.  Perhaps--perhaps something may happen again.  Perhaps,
after all, it may not be necessary!"

They kissed each other silently, and parted for the night.  Half-way upstairs Ruth remembered
that her mother had not once inquired as to the nature of the work she intended to undertake,
and smiled whimsically to herself.  It was so very characteristic of the irresponsible little
mistress of the household!

CHAPTER THREE.

A PROPOSAL AND A REFUSAL.

It was tacitly understood in the household that after Easter Ruth was going to do "something"
to retrieve the family fortunes, but what that "something" should be remained vague and undefined.
Ruth herself debated the question morning, noon, and night, and, like many another poor girl
in the same position, bitterly regretted an education which had given her no one marketable
qualification.  She could play a little, draw a little, speak French a little, speak German
a little less, make her own clothes in amateur fashion, and--what else?  Nothing at all that
any able-bodied woman could not accomplish equally well.  If she had concentrated her energies
on one definite thing, and learnt to do it, not pretty well, nor very well, but just as well
as it could possibly be done, what a different prospect would have stretched before her now!

If she decided to teach, she must be content to accept juvenile pupils and a poor salary; if
she became a companion, she must sacrifice all spirit of independence, and become a dutiful
drudge, while she knew in her inmost heart that it would be wrong to take up nursing, since
she felt no real vocation for the task.

It was useless to ask advice of anyone at home, so, one afternoon, Ruth betook herself to almost
the only intimate friend she possessed,--a middle-aged spinster who kept house for an adored
doctor brother.  The brother was a friend into the bargain--a tall, thin, clever--looking man
of thirty-eight, engrossed in his practice, which was one of the most prosperous in the neighbourhood.
Brother and sister were seated at tea together when Ruth was announced, and she looked round
the pretty room with admiring eyes.  Pink silk lamp-shades, luxurious cushions, bowls of spring
flowers, a tea equipage, bright and dainty and complete,--oh, how delightful it all looked
after the bare shabbiness of the room at home; and what fascinating clothes Eleanor was wearing!

Despite her affection, one-and-twenty was inclined to think pretty things thrown away upon
an antediluvian creature of forty, but if Ruth could have had a glimpse of herself as "others
saw her" at that moment, she might have been more content.  The subdued lamp-light dealt kindly
with the old blue serge coat and skirt, the pink scarf at her neck matched the colour on her
cheeks, and the eyes underneath the black brows were unusually bright and animated.  She was
always a welcome guest at this hospitable house, and it was a pleasant variety to be petted
and fussed over, provided with cushions and footstools, and tempted to eat by a fresh supply
of hot buttered scones and a delectable chocolate cake studded over with walnuts.  Ruth laughed,
and dimpled into ever brighter beauty.

"It makes me feel so nice and young," she cried, "as if I were a spoilt only child, instead
of the staid eldest daughter of a family!  But I ought to be staid; I can't afford to frivol
any longer, for I am going to take a most important step, and start life on my own account."

Brother and sister alike looked up with sharp inquiry, and Ruth, understanding, broke into
a merry laugh.

"Oh, not that!  Nothing half so interesting!  Merely going to earn my living, and I came to
ask your advice as to how I had best set about it. Nothing is decided so far, except that I
am to earn enough money to keep myself, and contribute largely to home expenses.  That's the
end, but the puzzle is to find out the means."

"Poor lassie!" said Miss Maclure gently.  She had a soft, Scotch burr in her voice, and her
plain face was full of an almost motherly kindness as she looked at the pretty girl across
the hearth.  She had private means of her own, and her brother was a prosperous man; but she
knew enough of the world to understand the nature of the struggle of which Ruth spoke so lightly.

"It's easier saying than doing, I'm afraid, dearie.  There are so many women searching for
work nowadays, and for many positions it is necessary to prepare by long and expensive training.
We wanted a lady secretary for one of the societies in which I am interested, and we had hundreds
of applicants who were expert typists and stenographers, and had all sorts of diplomas to show,
but you have nothing of the kind."

"No, nor a penny to spend on training.  I must be taken as I am, or not at all.  Don't discourage
me, Eleanor, please.  Mollie runs the cold tap persistently at home, and I really need appreciation.
There must be something that I can do, if I set my wits to work.  I am not going to be a nurse,
Dr Maclure, so don't think that I am leading up to a request that you should get me into a
hospital.  I don't like sick people unless they are my very own, and it would be almost as
dull to be shut up in a hospital as to remain at home."

Miss Maclure looked a trifle shocked at this candid confession, but her brother laughed, and
said approvingly--

"That's right!  I admire your honesty.  We have far too many nurses who take up the work without
any real fitness, and I should be sorry to see you added to the number.  Well, let me see!
...  After hospital nursing, the next most popular resort is to turn author and write a novel.
Have you any leaning in that direction?"

He looked across at Ruth with a humorous twitching of his clean-shaven lips.  Once again she
felt conscious that the Maclures looked upon her as a pretty child, to be petted and humoured
rather than a serious woman of the world, and once again the knowledge brought with it a feeling
of rest and comfort.

She crinkled her brows and smiled back at the doctor, answering frankly--

"Oh yes, plenty of leanings!  I should love to write, and Mollie and I are always `imagining'
to make life more lively and exciting; but, when it comes to sitting down with a pen in my
hand, my thoughts seem to take wing and fly away, and the words won't come.  They are all stiff
and formal, and won't express what I want.  Mollie gets on better, for she writes as she talks,
so it's natural at least.  She wrote quite a long story once, and read it aloud to me as she
went on, but it was never finished, and I don't think for a moment that any paper would have
looked at it.  The people were all lords and dukes and millionaires, and we don't know even
a knight.  I expect it was full of mistakes."

Dr Maclure smiled and rose from his seat.

"Well, I have some letters to write, so I will leave you to have your talk with Eleanor; but
I am starting off again on my rounds in half an hour, and shall be driving past your house.
It is a disagreeable evening.  Will you let me give you a lift?"

Ruth consented eagerly.  The blue serge coat felt none too warm in the bleak east wind, and
it would be a relief to be spared the chilly walk, and be bowled along instead in the doctor's
luxurious brougham.  She drew her chair nearer to the fire, and proceeded to confide various
whys and wherefores to the sympathetic Eleanor--sympathetic, but hardly responsive this afternoon
for some mysterious reason.  The while Ruth set forward one idea after another, Miss Maclure
sat gazing at her with an intent, questioning gaze, as though too much occupied with her own
thoughts to grasp the meaning of the conversation.  Ruth felt chilled and disappointed, for
during the last few days the constant thought in the background of her mind had been, "Eleanor
will advise me!  Eleanor will know what to do!"

Miss Maclure was a busy woman, whose name figured in a dozen committees. She knew everyone,
went everywhere, and her word had weight in guilds, societies, and associations.  What could
be more easy than for her to find a pleasant and lucrative berth for a pet girl friend, and
settle her in it without delay?  Ruth had already imagined a touching scene wherein she had
been introduced to her future sphere of work, while those in authority overpowered Miss Maclure
with thanks for helping them to find the ideal person to fill the vacant post.  But Eleanor
said nothing, suggested nothing, only sat staring with those grave, questioning eyes!

It was almost a relief when the half-hour was over, and the doctor gave the summons for departure.
Then Eleanor came back to the present once more, and was all that was kind and loving.

"Have you no wraps with you, dear?  Is that all you have on?" she asked, as the girl buttoned
her thin coat and pulled the scarf higher round her throat; and Ruth answered "Yes," in an
irresponsive tone, which effectually put a stop to further remarks.  She might speak of her
own poverty, but not even Eleanor Maclure herself could be allowed to pity, or offer to supply
a want.  That was Miss Ruth's idea of proper pride, and she straightened her back, and held
her head higher than ever as she crossed the hall and took her seat in the carriage.

Such a luxurious brougham it was, with its well-cushioned seats, its electric reading-lamp
attached to the wall, its rack for books and papers, and cosy fur rug!  Ruth tucked the rug
securely in position, and, looking up, caught the reflection of her face in the strip of mirror
opposite.  The blue serge toque sat so jauntily on her head that it looked quite smart; the
pink tie was undoubtedly becoming.  Well, it was a comfort to be pretty, at least!  To have
been poor and plain would have been quite too depressing.  She smiled back in approving fashion,
to feel somewhat disconcerted a moment later as the mirror reflected Donald Maclure's face
beside her own.  He was staring at her with the same intent questioning which she had noticed
in Eleanor's eyes, and surely he looked paler, older, more haggard than usual!  She turned
towards him, warmed into increased friendship by the presentiment that he was in trouble like
herself.

"It's so good of you to take me home, Dr Maclure!  It may seem curious to you, but it's quite
a treat to me to drive about in this comfy carriage.  I so seldom travel in anything but shaky
omnibuses.  I should not object to being a lady doctor, if I could have a brougham like this
of my very own.  There!  We never thought of that when we were discussing my possible fields
of labour!"

Dr Maclure bent forward, and glanced out of the window.  His horse was travelling quickly to-night;
in another ten minutes Mr Connor's house would be reached, and his opportunity over.  He turned
to face his companion, and said quietly--

"There is another possibility open to you, Ruth, which you have perhaps not considered.  Have
you ever thought of it, I wonder?  Can you guess what I mean?"

The grey eyes stared into his in frankest bewilderment.

"No," cried Ruth--"no!  What is it?  Something nice?  Tell me what it is."

"You have never guessed that I love you; that I have loved you for years, since you were a
girl at school?  You have never once guessed it all this time?"

He read his answer in the blank face and startled eyes, for Ruth was too utterly taken aback
to feel the usual embarrassment.  She sat perfectly still, gazing not at him but at the reflection
of his face in the mirror opposite.  Dr Maclure!  Was she dreaming, or was it really his voice
which she heard uttering these extraordinary words?  Dr Maclure loved her--had loved her for
years!  It was too inconceivable to be grasped! He asked if she had not guessed his secret,
but Ruth had not thought of him at all; he had not entered into her calculations except as
"Eleanor's brother"--a nonentity who might be agreeable or the reverse, according as he drove
her home on wet evenings, or interrupted a cosy tete-a-tete.

She did not reply to the question in words; but he was answered all the same, for she heard
him sigh, and saw a quiver pass across the thin face.

"I am too old, Ruth--is that it?  You never thought of me as a possible lover?"

"Oh no, never once!  You always seemed so busy and occupied, and you have Eleanor to look after
you.  You have always been very kind to me, but you were kind to Mollie and Trix and Betty
as well.  I did not feel that you treated me differently from them.  You are so clever; and
you saw yourself, when we talked this afternoon, I can do nothing.--I don't see how you can
possibly like me."

"Don't you?" he asked quietly.  "But I do, Ruth; I care more than I can express.  I have not
spoken before, for you seemed too young.  I should not have spoken to-day if you had not told
us of this new move.  You don't know how hard it is for a girl to go out into the world and
earn her living; but I do, and I should like to save you from it, if it can be done.  I could
give you a comfortable home, and enough money to make life easy and pleasant.  It would be
my best happiness to see you happy. We could travel; you would be able to help Mollie and the
rest.  If you married me, your people would be my people, and I should be as anxious as yourself
to let them share our good fortune; and I would love you very dearly, Ruth!  I seem old to
you, perhaps, but my love would be more proved and certain than if I were a boy of your own
age.  I am a prosperous man, but I want something more from life than I have had so far--something
that you alone can give roe.  You hold my key to happiness, Ruth!"

Ruth drew back into the corner of the carriage and turned her face into the shadow.  She wanted
to think.  What an extraordinary change in the outlook at life to have happened in a few brief
moments!  Dr Maclure's wife!  Here was an answer indeed to the question which had been occupying
her thoughts for the last few weeks!

Suppose--suppose, just for one moment, that she said yes?  Suppose that on getting home she
walked into the dining-room and announced her engagement to a prosperous and charming man,
who was already a family friend and favourite?  What fun!  What excitement!  What pride on
the part of the little mother; what transparent relief to the overtaxed pater!  Mollie and
Trix would begin at once to discuss bridesmaids' dresses, and there would be a trousseau to
buy, and all the bustle and excitement of a first marriage in a family.  And afterwards?  A
big, handsomely appointed house, pretty clothes, lots of money, the power to help those whom
she loved...

It sounded good--very good indeed!  Much more attractive than those nursery governess and companion
schemes which she dreaded, despite all her resolutions.  It would be delightful to be her own
mistress, and do just as she liked...

And then a thought occurred.  What of Eleanor?  Ruth recalled the intent gaze which had mystified
her so much during the afternoon, and felt convinced that Miss Maclure had guessed her brother's
secret.  What was her feeling in the matter?  Was she jealous of a rival in her brother's affections,
or loyally anxious for his happiness, regardless of how her own future might be affected? 
A spasm of curiosity found voice in a sudden question--

"But there is Eleanor.  If you married, what would become of her?"

"There would be no difficulty about that.  When we took up house together we made a solemn
agreement that if either wished to marry in the future the other should not hinder in any possible
way.  Eleanor has her own income, and many interests in life to keep her happy and occupied.
She would live near us, I hope, but you should be entire mistress of your home, Ruth."

He evidently thought she had looked upon his sister's presence in the house as a hindrance
to her happiness, but, in truth, Ruth felt a chilly sinking of heart at his reply.  The thought
of the big house was not half so attractive, shorn of the figure of the sympathetic friend.
The library with no Eleanor sitting writing at her desk; the drawing-room with no Eleanor in
the deep-cushioned chair; the dining-room with no Eleanor at the head of the table--how blank
it all seemed!  How dreadfully dull to be alone all day, with only the doctor to break the
monotony!  Only the doctor!  The blood rushed in a flood to Ruth's cheeks as she realised the
significance of that one word.  She turned impetuously towards her companion, and gripped his
arm with nervous pressure.

"Don't tempt me!" she cried earnestly--"don't tempt me!  There are so many things that I should
like, and I keep thinking of them, when I should think only of you.--I'd love to be rich, and
have a nice house, and play Lady Bountiful at home!  I'd love to travel about and see the world,
instead of jogging along in one little rut; and, really and truly, I dread turning out to work,
and am a coward at heart--but,-- that's all!  I have always liked you very much as a friend,
but I can't imagine ever feeling any different.  When I was thinking over things just now,
I--don't be angry!  I don't want to hurt you, only to be quite, quite honest--I thought more
of Eleanor than of you!  I hardly thought of you at all."

The doctor's thin face looked very drawn and pained, but he smiled in response to her pleading
glance.

"I'm not angry, dear.  Why should I be?  It is not your fault that you do not care, and it
is best for us both to know the truth.  I feared it might be so.  I am too old and staid to
attract a bright young girl, but I even now cannot bring myself to regret my love.  It has
given me the happiest hours of my life, and I hope you will always let me help you in any way
that is possible.  I think you owe me that privilege, don't you, Ruth?"

"Oh, I do--I do!  If it is any pleasure to you, I promise faithfully to come to you whenever
I need a friend, and I should like you to help me. That means a great deal, for I am horribly
proud.  There are very few people from whom I can accept a favour."

