Desmond learned all this only gradually; but from the first day, making a virtue of necessity,
he threw himself into the work and became very useful, winning the good opinion of the officers
of the dockyard. His feelings were frequently wrung by the brutal punishments inflicted by
the overseer upon defaulters. The man had absolute power over the workers. He could flog them,
starve them, even cut off their ears and noses. One of his favorite devices was to tie a quantity
of oiled cotton round each of a man's fingers and set light to these living torches.

Another, used with a man whom he considered lazy, was the tank. Between the dockyard and the
river, separated from the latter only by a thin wall, was a square cavity about seven feet
deep covered with boarding, in the center of which was a circular hole. In the wall was a small
orifice through which water could be let in from the river, while in the opposite wall  was
the pipe and spout of a small hand pump. The man whom the overseer regarded as an idler was
let down into the tank, the covering replaced, and water allowed to enter from the river. This
was a potent spur to the defaulter's activity, for if he did not work the pump fast enough
the water would gradually rise in the tank, and he would drown. Desmond learned of one case
where the man, utterly worn out by his life of alternate toil and punishment, refused to work
the pump and stood in silent indifference while the water mounted inch by inch until it covered
his head and ended his woes.

Desmond's diligence in the dockyard pleased the overseer, whose name was Govinda, and he was
by and by employed on lighter tasks which took him sometimes into the town. Until the novelty
wore off he felt a lively interest  in the scenes that met his eye--the bazaars, crowded with
dark-skinned natives, the men mustachioed, clad for the most part in white garments that covered
them from the crown of the head to the knee, with a touch of red sometimes in their turbans;
the women with bare heads and arms and feet, garbed in red and blue; the gosains, mendicants
with matted hair and unspeakable filth; the women who fried chapatis {small, flat, unleavened
cakes} on griddles in the streets, grinding their meal in handmills; the sword grinders, whetting
the blades of the Maratha two-edged swords; the barbers, whose shops had a never-ending succession
of customers; the Brahmans, almost naked and shaved bald save for a small tuft at the back
of the head; the sellers of madi, a toddy extracted from the cocoanut palm; the magicians in
their shawls, with high stiff red cap, painted all over with snakes; the humped bullocks that
were employed as beasts of burden, and when not in use roamed the streets untended; occasionally
the basawa, the sacred bull of Siva, the destroyer, and the rath {car} carrying the sacred
rat of Ganessa. But with familiarity such scenes lost their charm; and as the months passed
away Desmond felt more and more the gnawing of care at his heart, the constant sadness of a slave.

Day followed day in dreary sameness. Regularly every evening Desmond was locked with his eight
fellow prisoners in the shed, there to spend hours of weariness and discomfort until morning
brought release and the common task.  He  had  the  same rations of rice and ragi {a cereal},
with occasional doles of more substantial fare. He was carefully kept from all communication
with the other European prisoners, and as the Bengali was the only man of his set who knew
English, his only opportunities of using his native tongue occurred in the evening before he slept.

His fellow prisoners spoke Urdu among themselves, and Desmond found some alleviation of the
monotony of his life in learning the lingua franca of India under the Babu's tuition. He was
encouraged to persevere in the study by the fact that the Babu proved to be an excellent storyteller,
often beguiling the tedium of wakeful hours in the shed by relating interminable narratives
from the Hindu mythology, and in particular the exploits of the legendary hero Vikramaditya.
So accomplished was he in this very oriental art that it was not uncommon for one or other
of the sentries to listen to him through the opening in the shed wall, and the head warder
who locked the prisoners' fetters would himself sometimes squat  down at the door before leaving
them at night, and remain an interested auditor until the blast of a horn warned all in the
fort and town that the hour of sleep had come. It was some time before Desmond was sufficiently
familiar with the language to pick up more than a few words of the stories here and there,
but in three months he found himself able to follow the narrative with ease.

Meanwhile he was growing apace. The constant work in the open air, clad, save during the rains,
in nothing but a thin dhoti {a cloth worn round the  waist, passed between the legs and tucked
in behind the back}, developed  his physique and, even in that hot climate, hardened his muscles.
The Babu one day remarked with envy that he would soon be deemed worthy of promotion to Angria's
own gallivat, whose crew consisted of picked men of all nationalities.

This was an honor Desmond by no means coveted. As a dockyard workman, earning his food by the
sweat of his brow, he did not come in contact with Angria, and was indeed less hardly used
than he had been on board the Good Intent. But to become a galley slave seemed to him a different
thing, and the prospect of pulling an oar in the Pirate's gallivat served to intensify his
longing to escape.

For, though he proved so willing and docile in the dockyard, not a day passed but he pondered
the idea of escape. He seized every opportunity of learning  the  topography of the fort and
town, being aided in this unwittingly by Govinda, who employed him more and more often, as
he became familiar with the language, in conveying messages from one part of the settlement
to another. But he was forced to confess to himself that the chances of escape were very slight.
Gheria was many miles from the nearest European settlement where he might find refuge. To escape
by sea seemed impossible; if he fled through the town and got clear of Angria's territory he
would almost certainly fall into the hands of the Peshwa's {the prime minister and real ruler
of the Maratha kingdom} people, and although the Peshwa was nominally an ally of the Company,
his subjects--a lawless, turbulent, predatory race--were not likely to be specially friendly
to a solitary English lad. A half-felt hope that he might be able to reach Suwarndrug, lately
captured by Commodore James, was dashed by the news that that fort had been handed over by
him to the Marathas. Moreover,  such  was the rivalry among the various European nations competing
for trade in India that he was by no means sure of a friendly reception  if  he  should  succeed
in gaining a Portuguese or Dutch settlement.  Dark  stories  were  told  of Portuguese dealings
with Englishmen, and the Dutch bore no good repute for their treatment of prisoners.

It was a matter of wonder to Desmond that none of his companions ever hinted at escape. He
could not imagine that any man could be a slave without feeling a yearning for liberty; yet
these men lived through the unvarying round; eating, toiling, sleeping, without any apparent
mental revolt. He could only surmise that all manliness and spirit had been crushed out of
them, and from motives of prudence he forbore to speak of freedom.

But one evening, a sultry August evening when the shed was like an oven, and, bathed in sweat,
he felt utterly limp and depressed, he asked the Babu in English whether anyone had ever escaped
out of Angria's clutches. Surendra Nath Chuckerbutti glanced anxiously around, as if fearful
that the others might understand. But they lay listless on their charpoys; they knew no English,
and there was nothing in Desmond's tone to quicken their hopelessness.

"No, sahib," said the Bengali; "such escapade, if successful, is beyond my ken. There have
been attempts; cui bono? Nobody is an anna the better. Nay,  the  last state of such misguided
men is even worse; they die suffering very ingenious torture."

Desmond had been amazed at the Babu's command of English until he learned that the man was
an omnivorous reader, and in his leisure at Calcutta had spent many an hour in poring over
such literature as his master's scanty library afforded, the works of Mr. Samuel Johnson and
Mr. Henry Fielding in particular.

At this moment Desmond said no more, but in the dead of night, when all were asleep, he leaned
over to the Babu's charpoy and gently nudged him.

"Surendra Nath!" he whispered.

"Who calls?" returned the Babu.

"Listen. Have you yourself ever thought of escaping?"

"Peace and quietness, sir. He will hear."

"Who?"

"The Gujarati, sir--Fuzl Khan."

"But he doesn't understand. And if he did, what then?"

"He was the single man, positively unique, who was spared among six attempting escape last rains."

"They did make an attempt, then. Why was he spared?"

"That, sir, deponent knoweth not. The plot was carried to Angria."

"How?"

"That also is dark as pitch. But Fuzl Khan was spared, that we know. No man  can trust his
vis-a-vis. No man is now so bold to discuss such matters."

"Is that why we are all chained up at night?"

"That, sir, is the case. It is since then our limbs are shackled."

Desmond thought over this piece of information. He had noticed that the Gujarati was left much
alone by the others. They were outwardly civil enough, but they rarely spoke to him of their
own accord, and sometimes they would break off in a conversation if he appeared interested.
Desmond had put this down to the man's temper; he was a sullen fellow, with a perpetually hangdog
look, occasionally breaking out in paroxysms of violence which cost him many a scourging from
the overseer's merciless rattan. But the attitude of his fellow prisoner was more easily explained
if the Babu's hint was well founded. They feared him.

Yet, if he had indeed betrayed his comrades, he had gained little by his treachery. He was
no favorite with the officers of the yard. They kept him hard at work, and seemed to take a
delight in harrying him. More than once, unjustly, as it appeared to Desmond, he had made acquaintance
with the punishment tank. In his dealings with his fellows he was morose and offensive. A man
of great physical strength, he was a match for any two of  his shed companions save the Biluchis,
who, though individually weaker, retained something of the spirit of their race and made common
cause against him. The rest he bullied, and none more than the Bengali, whose weaklier constitution
spared him the hard manual work of the yard, but whose timidity invited aggression. Then notify the judges come to his
house for a matter of utmost gravity. Were in effect, and she taught the four firms, and gave
them part of the price at which the priests had sold forgiveness Zadig. Each arrived at the
appointed hour, and was stunned to meet colleagues and still more with the judges who were witnesses
to his ignominy. Zadig was released, and Setoc so captivated by the skill of Almona, who took for
his own wife.

CHAPTER XIV.

The Bayle.

I had to go Setoc business of its traffic to the island of Serendib,
but the first month married, which, as we have said, is the honeymoon,
do not I leave or separate from his wife, even assume that one day
could be separated from it.

Therefore begged his friend Zadig to do for this journey. Ay! Zadig was saying: that even
I have to put more land between the beautiful Astarte and I? But it serves to force my benefactors.
So he said, cried, and broke.

A short time after brought to the island of Serendib, he was considered very superior man. Escogiéronle
traders by an arbitrator, the wise by his friend, and the small number of those who seek advice
from your adviser. King wanted to see and hear him, and soon met Zadig was worth quanto, he trusted
his discretion, and made him his friend. Zadig trembled the simplicity and the esteem with
which he was the king, thinking night and day in the misfortunes
that had brought him the friendship of Moabdar.

The king loves me, he said, will I be a man lost? Yet he could not disengage from the blandishments
of his majesty, because we must confess to being a of the most accomplished princes of Nabuzan Asia,
King of Serendib, Nuzanah son, son Nabuzan, Sambusna son, and it was difficult for whom he
was, not about clothes.

Incessantly praised, cheated and stole to the good prince, and each put his hand like qual to
contention in the treasury. The chief minister of finances of the island of Serendib was this
beautiful exemplo, and all the underlings imitate him with fervor. The king, who knew, had moved several
times minister, but had never been able to move the accepted style of dividing the income real
into two unequal parts, the smaller one for his majesty, and more for their managers.

Good King relied Nabuzan his need of the wise Zadig. So many things you know, told him, do not would
know how to stop me with a treasurer who does not steal from me? Yes indeed, "replied Zadig;
a sure way to pick you know one that has clean hands. Delighted the king asked him, giving
him a hug, as would. No more, "replied Zadig, which aim to Bayle to quanta the dignity of treasurer,
and that baylare lighter, more men will infallibly well. YOU ARE laughing at you, 'said the
king, so by diverting some of choosing a minister hacienda! With more than ready to give whatever
antics in the air has to be the most integrated and more able administrator? I'm not saying it
is to be the most able, "replied Zadig, but I do assure you is that undoubtedly has to be the
most honest. Such was the confidence with Zadig was saying it, that persuaded the king to possess
some secret knowledge supernatural administrators. I do not like things supernatural, he said
Zadig, and I have never bear with patience and men who do miracles, or the books that the mint,
and if you want your majesty allow me to do the test, will be convinced that my secret is so easy
as a single. More Nabuzan was astounded king of Serendib, to hear that the secret was simple, that
if I had said it was miraculous. Okay, I said to you, do as you please. Dexadlo be that this test
will earn more than what you think. That same day he sent a proclamation through name of the
king, who all aspired to employment quantos chief minister of the income Nabuzan his sacred
majesty, Nuzanab son, should come to light silk dresses to the antechamber King, the first day
of the moon's crocodile. Came to the number of sixty-four. Were musicians in a room immediately,
and arranged for a bayle, but the door was closed of the room, and she had to enter through a gallery
quite dark. Came a uxier to drive one after another to every candidate in this passage, where
you only dexaba few minutes. The king was advised, had actually put all their treasures in the
gallery. Quando suitors came to the hall, His Majesty commanded that Bayle, and never had baylarines
seen more moles or with less ease; all went head descends, the backs knees, and hands attached
to the body. What scoundrels! Zadig said in voice descends. To one swiftly moves, head up, looking
serene, the right body, and firm knees. What man so well, what sugeto honest! 'said Zadig. He gave
the king a hug baylarin to this good, and made him his treasurer, all others were justly punished
and fined, because while it had been in the gallery, each one had filled his pockets, and could hardly
take a step. Pitied the king of human nature, contemplating that sixty baylarines four and sixty-three
thieves were thieves, and given to the dark gallery running title of temptation. Persia had been impaled
in the sixty-three magnates; in other countries, had appointed a court, which had consumed
three times the costs stolen money, and had not put a penny in the
royal coffers, in others, would have justified fully, and would have
fallen from grace the lithe baylirin: in Serendib were condemned to
increase the treasury, because it was very Nabuzan item.

Was no less grateful, and gave a sum more quantiosa Zadig that nunra treasurer had stolen neither
the king his master. Zadig value of this money to send him to Babylon Express report on the
fate of Astarte. In giving this order, her voice trembled, he rushed the blood towards the heart,
is covered with a dark veil their eyes, and stood on the point of death. Departed the post, board violates
Zadig, and returned to the palace, where without seeing anyone, and believing I was in his room,
gave the name of love. Yes, the love, the king said, that just question, and you have guessed
the cause of my pain. What a great man you are! I hope to teach me to know a strong woman, as
I have done to find a disinterested treasurer.

Returning Zadig itself promised to serve in his love as he had done
in real estate, but seemed the most difficult undertaking yet.

CHAPTER XV.

Blue eyes.

My body and heart, the king said to Zadig ... Hearing these words could not help the Babylonian
to terminate his Majesty, and say, welcome Ouanto you have not told my soul and heart, because
we do not hear more voices that are in talks of Babylon, or read books do not address the heart
and soul, written by authors who have neither of them; but forgive me, Lord, so continue. Nabuzan
continued: My body and my heart are prone to love at the first of these two powers has plenty
of satisfaction, that I have a hundred wives at my disposal, all beautiful, obliging, obsequious,
and voluptuous, or pretending are with me.

However my heart is not so lucky, because I have had the most experience that flattered the
King of Serendib, and they do very little appreciation of Nabuzan. Why not I say that my wives
are unfaithful because I want to find a like for me own, and she turned a hundred beauties possess.
Tell me if my hundred sultanas is a who really loves me.

Zadig answered the same thing about the minister of finance. Lord dexadlo to my office; but
first let me have all the riches that were exhibited at the gallery of temptation, and do not hesitate
to give you a good account of them, and not lose a jot. The king gave him broad powers, and
chose Zadig humpback thirty-three the most ugly Serendib, thirty-three pages of the most beautiful,
and thirty-three of the most eloquent and strongmen monks. Dexóles power to all toilets introduced
in the sultanas; Hunchback gave to each four thousand gold coins to give away, and the first
day were all happy. The pages that had no other gift that you make your person, take two or three
days in getting what they requested, and had more difficulty in leaving his non bonzes; but after they
surrendered thirty-three devotees. Witnessed the king of all these tests by giving a lattice
in the chambers of the sultanas, and was stunned that their one hundred ninety-nine wives surrendered
to his presence. There was one very young and very novice to the qual had never touched his
majesty: arrimáronse to it one, two and three humps, ofrecréndole twenty thousand pieces, but
remained incorruptible, laughing at the idea of ​​the humpback they thought their money made
them more beautiful. Presented themselves the two most beautiful pages, and they he said that the
king seemed nicer. Bonzo Acometióla then the most eloquent, and then the more adventurous: at
first I tried to talkative, and could not understand was the merit of qual second. Everything
is put at the heart, said: "I shall not transfer or the gold of a hunchback, or to the beauty
of a page, or to the arts of a Buddhist monk, and I wish to anyone but Nabuzan; Nuzanab son,
waiting for him to me appropriate. King was arrested in joy, love and admiration. He returned
to take all the money that had bought the humpback good chance, and gave to the beautiful Falida,
which was the name this beauty.

With him gave him his heart, he deserved to spare, because it never looked brighter and more youth flowery
yours, never beauty that was more worthy of pledge. It is true that history is not silent than
to misspell a courtesy, but confesses that Baylan as fairies, sing like sirens, and talked
like the Graces, and was full of skill and virtue.

Adorábala Nabuzan beloved but Falida had blue eyes, caused the most dire qual misfortunes. It
was forbidden by an ancient law of Serendib, who fell in love with one of the women who Greeks
later called BOOP, and to more than five thousand years had passed this bonzo the supreme law,
by appropriating to himself the lady of the first king of the island of Serendib, for so that
the curse of the blue eyes had made fundamental law of the state.

All classes of states made strong representations to Nabuzan, and publicly stated that arrival
was the fatal catastrophe of the kingdom, which was filled to the extent of the abomination,
threatening event that an accident of nature, in short, that Nabuzan, son of Nuzanab, was
in love with two blue eyes tear. The humpback, the monks, the contractors, and the black-eyed
bad-happy tainted the entire kingdom.

Universal discontent encouraged to savage peoples living north of Serendib to invade Nabuzan good
states. Subsidies requested his subjects, and the monks who owned half of state revenues,
were content to raise his hands to heaven, and refused to take their money out of breath treasury
to the king. Beautiful singing prayers in music, and dexáron the barbarians ravaged the state.

Dear
Zadig, "Take me out of this horrible predicament? said to him in piteous tone Nabuzan. With
much taste, "replied Zadig, the monks will give you money quanto distributions. Leave the land
where have raised their palaces and defendais no more than yours. Nabuzan did so, and Quando monks
came to lie at his feet, imploring his assistance, he answered them King with a superb music whose
lyrics were prayers to heaven, praying for conservation of their land. Then the monks gave
money, and happily concluded the war. Of Thus blessed by his prudent advice, and the most important
services, had Zadig brought the irreconcilable enemy of the most
powerful state, sworn in loss the monks and the Oji-black desacreditáronle
humpback and settlements, and made him suspicious the good Nabuzan.

The services that the man does remain in the anteroom, and suspicion enter the cabinet, according
to Zoroaster. Every day new charges were, the first is repelled, the second makes a dent, the
third wound, and the fourth killed.

Scared Zadig, who had put the issues on the rise of his friend, and
sent her money, no thought more than part of the island and go in
person to know news of Astarte, because if I stay in Serendib, he
said, I will impale the monks.

"But where shall I go?

Egypt I'll be a slave, according to Saudi appearances burned and
hanged in Babylon.

With all necessary is to know what became of Astarte: Partamona, and troubles that I intended
my luck fatal.

CHAPTER XVI.

The bandit.

On arriving at the borders between Saudi petrea of ​​Syria, and to pass along to a strong castle,
left him a few armed Arabs. Saw himself surrounded by men who shouted: Give it up, all quanto bring
ours, and your person belong to our master. In response took Zadig the sword, so did the young man
who was brave, and to the lifeless dexáron first Arab that had rammed: doubled the number of enemies,
but they are not discouraged, and resolved to die in the fight.

Víanse two men defended themselves against a multitude; little contest so unequal could last. Looking
from a window the owner of the castle, Arboga named, the wonders of value to Zadig, charged
him esteem. Baxo therefore and came in person to restrain the sujos, and freed the two walkers.
Quanto for my land problem is mine, he said, not less than that encounter strange land, but you seem
to me as courageous, that I was exempt from the common law. Made him into the castle, ordering his
troops to treat him well, and wanted dinner that night with Zadig.

Was the master of this castle one of those Arabs who called thieves, the qual-thousand atrocities
used to do some good action, robbed with a furious rapacity, and gave lavishly: fearless in
action, in a good mood in the treatment of life, drinking at the table, good Quando had drunk
humor, and above all without any overlaps. Gustóle much Zadig, and the conversation which encouraged
the banquet last long. Arboga finally said to him: Aconsejoos you to take the game with me,
you can not do better, not so bad the office, and one day you can
become what I am. Can you tell, "replied Zadig, since Quando exercitais
so noble profession? From child, "replied the master. It was an Arab
servant very clever, and could not get used to my state, desperate
to see that land belonging equally to all, I would not fit to me the
relevant portion. My faithful old sentence to an Arab, the qual said
to me: "Son, do not despair, know ye that in ancient times had a grain
of sand that ached to be an atom stranger in a desert walk, he became
a diamond, and is today the most precious jewel in the crown of King
of the Indies.

"'Then for a long space did Vikramaditya diligently fulfill that command; but by and by, growing
aweary of feeding the Vetala Agni, he sought counsel of the jogi Trilokanatha, who had his
dwelling on the mount of Kanahakrita. The jogi, perceiving the manifold merits of the incomparable
Vikramaditya, was moved with compassion towards him, and when he had long meditated and recited
sundry mantras {hymns and prayers}, he thus spake and said:

"'"Harken, O King. From the sacred tank of Shakravatar spring alleys four times seven, as it
were branches from one trunk, to wit, seven to the north, seven to the east, seven to the west,
and seven to the south. Of the seven alleys springing to the north do you choose the seventh,
and in the seventh alley the seventh tree from the sacred tank, and on the seventh branch of
the seventh tree thou shalt find the nest of a bulbul. Within that nest thou shalt discover
a golden key."'"

The Babu was now speaking very slowly, and an observer watching Desmond would have perceived
that his eyes were fixed with a strange look of mingled eagerness and anxiety upon the storyteller.
But no one observed this; every man in the group was intent upon the story, hanging upon the
lips of the eloquent Babu.

"'Having obtained the golden key,'" continued the narrator, "'thou shalt return forthwith to
thy palace, and the same night, when the Vetala Angi has eaten and drunk his fill, thou shalt
in his presence lay the key upon the palm of thy left hand, thus--'" (here the Babu quietly
took up a key hanging from the bunch attached to the warder's girdle, and laid it upon his
left palm). "'Then shalt thou say to the Vetala:

"'"O illustrious Vetala, tell me, I pray thee, what doth this golden key unlock?"

"'Then if the aspect of the Vetala be fierce, fear not, for he must needs reply: such is the
virtue of the key; and by his words thou shalt direct thy course. Verily it is for such a trial
that the gods have endowed thee with wisdom beyond the common lot of men.

"'Vikramaditya performed in all points the jogi's bidding; and having in the presence of the
Vetala laid the golden key upon the palm of his hand, a voice within bade him ask the question:

"'"O Vetala, what art thou apt to do? What knowest thou?"

"'And the Vetala answered:

"'"All that I have in my mind, that I am apt to perform. I know all things."

"'And the king said:

"'"Speak, then; what is the number of my years?"

"'And the Vetala answered:

"'"The years of thy life are a hundred."

"'Then said the king:

"'"I am troubled because in the tale of my years there are two gaps; grant me, then, one year
in excess of a hundred, or from the hundred take one."

"'And the Vetala answered:

"'"O King, thou art in the highest degree good, liberal, merciful, just, lord of thyself, and
honored of gods and of Brahmans; the measure of joys that are ordained to fill thy life is
full; to add anything thereto, to take anything therefrom, are alike impossible."

"'Having  heard these words, the king was satisfied, and the Vetala departed unto his own place.

"'Upon the night following the king prepared no feast against the coming of the Vetala, but
girt himself for fight. The Vetala came, and seeing nothing in readiness for the repast, but,
on the contrary, all things requisite to a combat, he waxed wroth and said:

"'"O wicked and perverse king, why hast thou made ready nothing for my pleasure this night?"

"'And the king answered: "Since thou canst neither add to my length of years, nor take anything
therefrom, why should I make ready a repast for thee continually and without profit?"

"'The Vetala made answer:

"'"Ho--'tis thus that thou speakest! Now, truly, come fight with me; this night will I devour
thee."

"'At these words the king rose up in wrath to smite the Vetala, and held him in swift and dexterous
combat for a brief space. And the Vetala, having thus made proof of the might and heroism of
the king, and being satisfied, spake and said:

"'"O King, thou art mighty indeed; I am content with thy valor; now, then, ask me what thou wilt."

"'And the king answered:

"'"Seeing that thou art well-disposed towards me, grant me this grace, that when I call thee,
thou wilt in that same instant stand at my side."

"'And the Vetala, having granted this grace to the king, departed unto his own place.'"

The Babu waved his hands as a sign that the story was ended. He was damp with perspiration,
and in his glance at Desmond there was a kind of furtive appeal for approval.

"Thou speakest well, Babu," said the warder. "But what befell King Bhoya when the graven image
had thus ended his saying?"

"That,  good jailer, is another story, and if you please to hear it another night, I will do
my poor best to satisfy you."

"Well, the hour is late."

The warder rose to his feet and resumed his official gruffness.

"Come, rise; it is time I locked your fetters; and, in good sooth, mine is no golden key."

He chuckled as he watched the prisoners file one by one into the shed. Following them, he quickly
locked each in turn to his staple in the wall and went out, bolting and double-locking the
door behind him.

"You did well, my friend," whispered Desmond in English to the Babu.

"My heart flutters like the wing of a bulbul," answered the Babu; "but I am content, sahib."

"But say, Surendra Nath," remarked one of the Maratha captives, "last time you told us that
story you said nothing of the golden key."

"Ah!" replied the Babu, "you are thinking of the story told by the second graven  image  in
King Vikramaditya's throne. I will tell you that tomorrow."

Next morning, when Desmond left the shed with his fellow prisoners, he took with him, secreted
in a fold of his dhoti, a small piece of clay. It had been given him overnight by the Babu.
An hour or two later, happening to be for a moment alone in the tool shop, he took out the
clay and examined it carefully. It was a moment for which he had waited and longed with feverish
impatience. The clay was a thin strip, oval in shape, and slightly curved. In the middle of
it was the impression, faint but clear, of a key. A footstep approaching, he concealed the
clay again in his garment, and, when a workman entered, was busily plying a chisel upon a deal
plank.

Before he left the tool shop, he secreted with the clay a scrap of steel and a small file.
That day, and for several days after, whenever chance gave him a minute or two apart from his
fellow workmen, he employed the precious moments in diligently filing the steel to the pattern
on the clay. It was slow work: all too tedious for his eager thought. But he worked at his
secret task with unfailing patience, and at the week's end had filed the steel to the likeness
of the wards of a key.

That night, when his "co-mates in exile" were asleep, he gently inserted the steel in the lock
of his ankle band. He tried to turn it. It stuck fast; the wards did not fit. He was not surprised.
Before he made the experiment he had felt that it would fail; the key was indeed a clumsy,
ill-shapen instrument. But next day he began to work on another piece of steel, and on this
he spent every spare minute he could snatch. This time he  found  himself able to work faster.
Night and morning he looked searchingly at the key on the warder's bunch, and afterward tried
to cut the steel to the pattern that was now, as it were, stamped upon his brain.

He wished he could test his second model in the morning light before the warder came, and correct
it then. But to do so would involve discovery by his fellow captives; the time to take them
into his confidence was not yet. He had perforce to wait till dead of night before he could
tell whether the changes, more and more delicate and minute, made upon his key during the day
were effective. And the Babu was fretful; having done his part admirably, as Desmond told him,
in working the key into his story, he seemed to expect that the rest would be easy, and did
not make account of the long labor of the file.

At length a night came when, inserting the key in the lock, Desmond felt it  turn easily. Success
at last! As he heard the click, he felt an extraordinary sense of elation. Quietly unclasping
the fetter, he removed it from his ankle, and stood free. If it could be called free--to be
shut up in a locked and barred shed in the heart of one of the strongest fortresses in Hindostan!
But at least his limbs were at liberty. What a world of difference there was between that and
his former state!

Should  he inform the Babu? He felt tempted to do so, for it was to Surendra Nath's ingenuity
in interpolating the incident of the key into a well-known story that he owed the clay pattern
of the warder's key. But Surendra Nath was excitable; he was quite capable of uttering a yell
of delight that would waken the other men and force a premature disclosure. Desmond decided
to wait for a quiet moment next day before telling the Babu of his success. So he replaced
his ankle band, locked the catch, and lay down to the soundest and most refreshing sleep he
had enjoyed for many a night.

He had only just reached the workshop next morning when a peon came with a  message that Angria
Rho {a chief or prince} required his instant attendance at the palace. He began to quake in
spite of himself. Could the prince have discovered already that the lock of his fetters had
been tampered with? Desmond could scarcely believe it. He had made his first test in complete
darkness; nothing had broken the silence save the one momentary click; and the warder, when
he unloosed him, had not examined the lock. What if he were searched and the precious key were
found upon him?  It  was carefully hidden in a fold of his dhoti. There was no opportunity
of finding another hiding place for it; he must go as he was and  trust  that  suspicion had
not been aroused. But it was with a galloping pulse that he followed the peon out of the dockyard,
within the walls of the fort, and into the hall where he had had his first interview with the
Pirate.

His uneasiness was hardly allayed when he saw that Angria was in company with Diggle. Both
were squatting on the carpeted dais; no other person was in the room. Having ushered him in,
the peon withdrew, and Desmond was alone with the two men he had most cause to fear. Diggle
was smiling, Angria's eyes were gleaming, his mobile lips working as with impatience, if not
anxiety.

The Pirate spoke quickly, imperiously.

"You have learnt our tongue, Firangi {originally applied by the natives to the Portuguese,
then to any European} boy?" he said.

"I have done my best, huzur," replied Desmond in Urdu.

"That is well. Now harken to what I say. You have pleased me; my jamadar {head servant} speaks
well of you; but you are my slave, and, if I will it, you will always be my slave. You would
earn your freedom?"

"I am in your august hands, huzur," said Desmond diplomatically.

"You may earn your freedom in one way," continued Angria in the same rapid, impatient tone.
"My scouts report that an English fleet has passed up the coast towards Bombay. My spies tell
me that in Bombay a large force is collected under the command of that sur ka batcha {son of
a pig} Clive. But I cannot learn the purpose of this armament. The dogs may think, having taken
my fortress of Suwarndrug, to come and attack me here. Or they may intend to proceed against
the French at Hyderabad. It is not convenient for me to remain in this uncertainty. You will
go to Bombay and learn these things of which I am in ignorance and come again and tell me.
I will then set you free."

"I cannot do it, huzur."

Desmond's reply came without a moment's hesitation. To act as a spy upon his own countrymen--how
could Angria imagine that an English boy would ever consent to win his freedom on such terms?

His simple words roused the Maratha to fury. He sprang to his feet and angrily addressed Diggle,
who had also risen, and stood at his side, still smiling. Diggle replied to his vehement words
in a tone too low for Desmond to catch what he said. Angria turned to the boy again.

"I will not only set you free; I will give you half a lakh of rupees; you shall have a place
at my court, or, if you please, I will recommend you to another prince in whose service you
may rise to wealth and honor. If you refuse, I shall kill you; no, I shall not kill you, for
death is sweet to a slave; I shall inflict on you the tortures I reserve for those who provoke
my anger; you shall lose your ears, your nose, and--"

Diggle again interposed.

"Pardon me, bhai {brother}," Desmond heard him say, "that is hardly the way to deal with a
boy of my nation. If you will deign to leave him to me,  I  think  that  in a little I shall
find means to overcome his hesitation."

"But even then, how can I trust the boy? He may give his word to escape me; then betray me
to his countrymen. I have no faith in the Firangi."

"Believe me, if he gives his word he will keep it. That is the way with us."

"It is not your way."

"I am no longer of them," said Diggle with consummate aplomb. But very soon he
perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars. Suscitóse a fierce debate about a law of
Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they are not the faucet, said one, if no such
animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them
comply, he said to them: I do not eat faucet, if there are taps, and if not available, we will
eat less, and thus to obey Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of the
taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the most
foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. In honor
and glory of the Sun, would have this sent to impale Zadig, and then prayed breviary of Zoroaster
with more pious compunction. His friend Cador (a friend is worth more than a hundred priests) went
to see the old Drastanés, and told him this: Glory to the Sun and faucets; nobody touch the hair
to Zadig, who was a saint, and has taps in his yard, not eat: his accuser himself, which is a
heretic. Why, has not substantiated that are neither filthy nor the solipeds Rabbits? Well, well,
he said Drastanés, trembling, shaking his head, to Zadig has been of impaling, because they
have misconceptions about the glyphs, and other, because he has spoken without regard to rabbits.
Cador Apaciguólo all through a palace toilet girl, whom he had fact a boy, had much the qual
influx with the school of wizards, and not impaled to anyone, the murmured something many doctors,
and therefore decline and the next Babylon. Zadig was saying: How does happiness figure? All the
earth haunts me up Imaginary Beings, and cursing of the wise, decided
to stick to live with people fine.

Reuníanse at home the finest treatment sugetos of Babylon, and the kindest ladies; servíanse fine
dining, but sometimes preceded the academies, and encouraged friendly conversations, that no
one aspired to drive them out of acute, which is half very certain to be a fool, and tarnish
the most brilliant gatherings.

Dishes and friends were not chosen by the pride that all preferred the appearance of reality,
and thus a robust estimate grange by That same least she aspired.

He lived in front of his house a certain Arimazo, sugeto carrying the perversity of his courage in recorded
physiognomy: corroíale envy, and bursting with vanity, separate dexando was one presumed to know
annoying. As the fine people made fun of him, he retaliated speaking ill of them. With difficulty sycophants
met at his house because he was rich. Importunábale the noise of cars entering the night with Zadig,
but most of it annoyed the heard him praise. Sometimes went to his house, and sat at the table
without getting "invites corrupting the joy of the whole company, as they say it infects the
food harpies they touch. He was succeeded by one day we wanted to give a banquet to a lady,
who, rather than admit, went to dinner with Zadig, and again, with both speaking at the palace,
it was a minister that he invited Zadig to supper, and not told him anything to Arimazo. In
such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.

This man, surnamed Babylon envious wanted Zadig upset because he called the blessed. A hundred
times a day, says Zoroaster, opportunity is to do harm, and to do well just once a year.

He went home to envious Zadig, And he was walking through the gardens with two friends and
a lady who claimed to some flowers, not another soul to be said. We tried a war that had just
ended with joy the king to the prince of Hircania, his feudal lord. Zadig that in this short
war had given repeated evidence of value, to much acclaim the king and the queen still more.
He took his book from memory, and four verses he wrote in suddenly, he gave to reading his beautiful
hostess, but though his friends begged him they are read, out of modesty, or perhaps by a
very discreet self, he would not: that well knew that the verses of sudden events are only good
for those for whom it is made. Tore it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and
pulled the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for them. Soon began to
drizzle and they all returned to the classrooms, but the envious who had stayed in the garden,
both recorded that gave with one half of the leaf, the qual was torn so that half of each line that
was filled a row direction, and even a short verse, and most foreign
is that, by a perhaps even more extraordinary, the meaning of such
verses were short infectivity was an atrocious against the king.

     Leíase them:
     
     A nasty monster Today governing
     the Chaldean; His throne invincible The ugly power itself,

For the
first time in his life he thought happily envious, having to lose
a man of good and friendly.

Horrible drunk in joy, went to the same king the satire written Zadig feathered, And he, with
his two friends and the lady was taken to jail, and was formed because, without being worthy
of hearing him. Stood the envious, when he had sentenced in the way which was to pass, and
told him that his verses were worthless. Not missed Zadig of poet felt yet in the soul be condemned
as guilty of lese-majesty, and dexar two friends and a beautiful lady in jail for a crime he
did not commit. Not allowed claim anything in his defense, because the book of memory was clear,
and that this was the style Babylon. Then walked to the scaffold, through vast ranks of people curious,
none dared to sympathize with him, but thronged to consider which side pony, and if it was
to die with the breath. His relatives were the only mourn, for they did not inherit, having confiscated
three-fourths of its flow to the Exchequer, and the rest to the envious.

While it was preparing to die, the bird flew from the balcony of the king, and came to rest roses
in the garden of Zadig.

The wind had knocked down a peach of a tree immediately which had fallen on a piece of a written
memorandum book, and he had stuck. Grabbed the parrot peach with writing and took it all to the knees
of the king. This curious read some words that meant nothing, and seemed the end of verse. As he
was fond to poetry, and you can always get something with the princes who love songs, gave to
think about the adventure of the parrot. We agreed then the queen of what was in the piece
of Zadig memory book, ordered him to be traxesen, and comparing the two pieces was seen to leave
each other, and the verses of Zadig, read as he had written were the following:

A nasty monster is the bloody war Today alone governs the Chaldean king without frights: Irresistible
love his throne is on earth; Ugly power who does not enjoy the same
tastes.

     
     
     When he ordered the king to Zadig traxeran his presence,
     and out of prison to his two friends and the beautiful lady.

He fell to the ground face Zadig to the king and plants the queen, he entreated her pardon
humbly for the bad poetry he had composed, and spoke with such Donayre, wisdom and wit, that
the monarchs would again see him, turned, and like best. We award the property of the envious
that he had wrongly accused: the restored Zadig all, and only affect the heart of his accuser
was the joy of not losing what they had. Day by day is increasing appreciation that King of Zadig
to: convidábale to all his recreations, and consulted him on all issues. Since that time the
queen began to regard him with complacency that could have serious dangers to her, to her August husband,
Zadig and the entire kingdom, and Zadig to believe that it is not difficult thing to live happily.

CHAPTER
V.

Generous.

Then came the era of the celebrity of a solemn festival to which every five years, because it
was Babylon style solemnly declare, after five years, citizens qual had made the most generous
action. The judges were great and wise men. He stated the first Satrap charge of city government,
the most illustrious actions done in time of his government and the judges voted, and the
king pronounced the decision. End of ground spectators flocked to this solemnity. He was the
winner of the hand of a monarch golden cup adorned with precious stones, and told the king
these words: "Receive this prize giving, and oxalic Gods grant me many vassals to resemble you.
"

At this memorable day, I leave it to see the king on his throne, surrounded by large, magicians
and deputies of all nations, which came, in some games where not the way of horses, nor the
physical strength, but by virtue grange glory. Recited aloud Satrap quale actions by their
authors could earn the inestimable prize, and not even spoke of the generosity with which Zadig
had restored all his wealth to envy: this action was not worthy of
the prize contest.

First presented to a judge that having, by virtue of a mistake that
was not responsible, missed an important pleyto against a citizen,
had given all his wealth, which was what equivalent to the loss of
the litigant.

Then produxo a young man who lost the love of a maiden who was getting
married, are nevertheless gave it to a friend, who was to death for
love of it, and also gave a virgin.

He then brought to a military that the war had given exemplo still Hircania greater generosity.
Suam Llevábanse to some enemy soldiers, and while he was defending against them, came to say
that other Hyrcanus were carried away by his mother; and left crying to his mistress, to liberate
the mother.

Quando returned to take the defense of his mistress, found expiring, and declined to death, but
he represented his mother had nothing but support him, and had a mind to suffer life.

Inclinábanse judges for this soldier, but the king speaking, said: "Action is noble yours, and so
are those of the other, but I Pasman, and yesterday was one that I Zadig has stunned. A few
days ago that has fallen from grace Coroebus my, my minister and valid. Quejábame it vehemently,
and all the palace told me I was too merciful Everyone said to Coroebus evil stubbornness. Asked
his opinion to Zadig, and dared to Allah. QNE confess I have seen stories in our exemplar of paying
a mistake with its flow, given his mistress, his mother a prefix
or the object of his love, but I've never read a palace has that property
of a fallen minister who was angry with his sovereign.

Each of those whose shares have been recited give him twenty thousand gold coins, but the cup I give
to Zadig.

Lord said this, your highness is the only one who deserves it, and who has the most outrageous
action, as being king is not angry with his slave that contradicted his passion. All held admired
the king and Zadig. King received the gifts of the judge had QUS given flow, the lover who had
married his beloved with his friend, and soldier before wanted to deliver his mother to his
mistress, and won the cup Zadig.

Grangeóse the king's reputation good prince, who did not keep a long
time and devoted the day with festivities that lasted more than they
prescribed the law, even his memory preserved in Asia.

Zadig was saying: with that in the end I'm happy! but Zadig was mistaken.

CHAPTER

VI.

The minister.

Having lost the king to his prime minister, chose to Zadig for this role. All the beautiful
ladies of Babylon applauded the choice, because there had never been minister as youth from the
foundation of the empire felt all the palace, the envious will took a vomit blood, and was extremely
swollen face. Zadig gave thanks the king and the queen, and was then to give it to the parrot.
Beautiful sparrow, said to him, you have been whom I have delivered life, and who have made
me prime minister. I had done much harm the dog and the horse of their Majesties, but you
have made me much good.

Lies in what things the fate of humans! But my happiness might fade in a few moments. The
parrot answered before. Zadig to blow gave the word, because he was of good physical I did not
think that parrots were prophets, then quieted, and began to serve his position as best he could.

Made
worldwide to reach the sacred power of the laws, and to overwhelm any the weight of his dignity.
Freedom did not prevent votes on the divan, and every vizier might, without dislike, sets
out its opinion. Quando failed a matter of law, not he, was the one who failed; but this was very
severe Quando, softens, and when missing law, to its equity such could have been attributed to Zoroaster.
It was he who I leave connected to the nations great principle that is worth a prisoner release,
to condemn an ​​innocent. I thought it was fate of laws succor not less intimidating citizens.
His main skill Cifrábase in seeking to unravel the truth all dark. This ability was served from
early days of his administration. Had died in India too became a merchant of Babylon, and having
forsaken his wealth in equal shares to his two sons, after giving his daughter, dexaba also a legacy
of thirty thousand pieces of gold to that of their children to decided that he had wanted more.
The more he erected a tomb, and gave it to her younger sister part of his estate on the rise of
her dowry. The people said: The most wanted more to his father, and the child wants more to
his sister: the thirty thousand pieces should be given to the highest. Called Zadig on them both,
and told him the most: your father is not dead, he has healed from his last illness, and returns
to Babylon. Thank God, "replied the boy, but his tomb fed had cost me dearly. The same is
then said to Zadig the child. Thank God, he replied, I shall return to my father all quanto
I have, but I want my sister dexase what I have given.

Restituiréis not nothing, 'said Zadig, and it will give thirty thousand coins, which you You are
the one You wanted your father more.

Had been a rich maiden troth to two wizards, and after receiving Both instructions a few months,
was found on tape. Both wanted to marry her. The maid said that he
would be her husband had put the state to give citizens the empire.
One said: I have been who have done good work, the other: No, I who
I had so much joy.

It was a popular song, and the warder himself was tempted to stay and listen until, the hour
for locking up being past, he at last recollected his duty and bundled the prisoners into the shed.

"Sing inside if you must," he said, "but not too loud, lest the overseer come with the bamboo."

Inside the shed, reclining on their charpoys, the men continued their performance, changing
their song, though not, as it seemed to Desmond, the tune. He, however, was perhaps not sufficiently
attentive to the monotonous strains; for, as soon as the warder had left the yard, he had unlocked
his fetters and begun to work in the darkness. Poised on one of the rafters, he held on with
one hand to a joist, and with the other plied a small saw, well greased with ghi. The sound
of the slow careful movements of the tool was completely drowned by the singing and the hollow
rat-a-pan of the tom tom. Beneath him stood the Babu, extending his  dhoti  like an apron,
and catching in it the falling shower of sawdust.

Suddenly the figure on the rafter gave a low whistle. Through the window he had seen the dim
form of the sentry outside approach the space lighted by the rays from the lantern, which he
had laid down at a corner of the shed. Before the soldier had time to lift it and throw a beam
into the shed (which he did as much from curiosity to see the untiring performers as in the
exercise of his duty) Desmond had swung down from his perch and stretched himself upon the
nearest charpoy. The Babu meanwhile had darted with his folded dhoti to the darkest corner.
When the sentry peered in, the two performing Marathas were sitting up; the rest were lying
prone, to all appearance soothed to sleep.

"Verily thou wilt rap a hole in the tom tom," said the sentry with a grin. "Better save a little
of it for tomorrow."

"Sleep is far from my eyes," replied the man. "My comrades are all at rest; if it does not
offend thee--"

"No. Tap till it burst, for me. But without sleep the work will be hard in the morning."

He went away. Instantly the two figures were again upon their feet, and the sawing recommenced.
For three hours the work continued, interrupted at  intervals by the visits of the sentry.
Midnight was past before Desmond, with cramped limbs and aching head, gave the word for the
song and accompaniment to cease, and the shed was in silence.

The  morning of the third day dawned--the last of the three allowed Desmond for making up his
mind. When the other prisoners were loosed from their fetters and marched off under guard to
their usual work, he alone was left. Evidently he was to be kept in confinement with a view
to quickening his resolution. Some hours passed. About midday he heard footsteps approaching
the shed. The door was opened, and in the entrance Diggle appeared.

"You will excuse me," he said with a sniff, "if I remain on the threshold of your apartment.
It is, I fear, but imperfectly aired."

He pulled a charpoy to the door, and sat down upon it, as much outside as within. Taking out
his snuffbox, he tapped it, took a pinch, savored it, and added:

"You will find the apartment prepared for you in my friend Angria's palace somewhat sweeter
than this your present abode--somewhat more commodious also."

Desmond, reclining at a distance, looked his enemy calmly and steadily in the face.

"If you have come, Mr. Diggle," he said, "merely to repeat what you said yesterday, let me
say at once that it is a waste of breath. I have not changed my mind."

"No,  not to repeat, my young friend. Crambe repetita--you know the phrase? Yesterday I appealed,
in what I had to say, to your reason; either my appeal, or your reason, was at fault. Today
I have another purpose. 'Tis pity to come down to a lower plane; to appeal to the more ignoble
part of man; but since you have not yet cut your wisdom teeth I must e'en accommodate myself.
Angria is my friend; but there are moments, look you, when the bonds of our friendship are
put to a heavy strain. At those moments Angria is perhaps most himself, and I, perhaps, am
most myself;  which might prove to a philosopher that there is a radical antagonism between
the oriental and the occidental character. Since my picture of the brighter side has failed
to impress you, I propose to show you the other side--such is the sincerity of my desire for
your welfare. And 'tis no empty picture--inanis imago, as Ovid might say--no, 'tis sheer reality,
speaking, terrible."

He turned and beckoned. In a moment Desmond heard the clank of chains, and by and by, at the
entrance of the shed, stood a figure at sight of whom his blood ran cold. It was the bent,
thin, broken figure of a Hindu, his thin bare legs weighted with heavy irons. Ears, nose, upper
lip were gone; his eyes were lit with the glare of madness; the parched skin of his hollow
cheeks was drawn back, disclosing a grinning mouth and yellow teeth. His arms and legs were
like sticks; both hands had lost their thumbs, his feet were twisted, straggling wisps of gray
hair escaped from his  turban. Standing there beside Diggle, he began to mop and mow, uttering
incomprehensible gibberish.

Diggle waved him away.

"That,  my  dear  boy,  illustrates  the  darker  side  of Angria's character--the side which
forbids me to call Angria unreservedly my friend. A year ago that man was as straight as you;
he had all his organs and dimensions; he was rich, and of importance in his little world. Today--but
you have seen him: it boots not to attempt in words to say what the living image has already said.

"And within twenty-four hours, unless you come to a better mind, even as that man is, so will
you be."

He rose slowly to his feet, bending upon Desmond a look of mournful interest  and compassion.
Desmond had stood all but transfixed with horror. But as Diggle now prepared to leave him,
the boy flushed hot; his fists clenched; his eyes flashed with indignation.

"You fiend!" was all he said.

Diggle smiled, and sauntered carelessly away.

That night, when the prisoners were brought as usual to the shed, and warder and sentries were
out of earshot, Desmond told them what he had seen.

"It must be tonight, my brothers," he said in conclusion. "We have no longer time. Before sunrise
tomorrow we must be out of this evil place. We must work, work, for life and liberty."

This night again the singer sang untiringly, the tom tom accompanying him with its weird hollow
notes. And in the blackness, Desmond worked as he had never worked before, plying his saw hour
after hour, never forgetting his  caution,  running no risks when he had warning of the sentry's
approach. And hour after hour the shower of sawdust fell noiselessly into Babu's outspread
dhoti. The Greek, which means concluded, he said that he had understood perfectly Zadig
his idea. With that you are all satisfied, "said Zadig, and no source of contention. Clasped
worldwide, and Setoc, after having sold their goods too expensive, he turned to his friend Zadig
to his tribe. So we arrived, Zadig knew that he had formed because in his absence, and they
were going to burn alive.

CHAPTER XIII.

Appointments.

While this trip to Basra, they made
the priests of punishing Zadig stars. The nine forms lay flat or
curled up on their charpoys--all was well.

Coming back an hour later, he fancied he heard a slight sound within the shed. He went to the
window and peered in, flashing his lantern before him from left to right. But as he did so,
he felt upon his throat a grip as of steel. He struggled to free himself; his cry was stifled
ere it was uttered; his matchlock fell with a clatter to the ground. He was like a child in
the hands of his captor, and when the Gujarati in a fierce low whisper said to him: "Yield,
hound, or I choke you!" his struggle ceased and he stood trembling in sweat.

But  now came the sentries' call, passed from man to man around the circuit of the fort.

"Answer the call!" whispered the Gujarati, with a significant squeeze of the man's windpipe.

When his turn arrived, the sentry took up the word, but it was a thin quavering call that barely
reached the next man a hundred yards away.

While this brief struggle had been going on, a light figure within the shed had mounted to
the rafters and, gently feeling for and twisting round a couple of wooden pins, handed down
to his companions below a section of the roof some two feet square, which had been kept in
its place only by these temporary supports. The wood was placed silently on the floor. Then
the figure above crawled out upon the roof, and let himself down by the aid of a rope held
by the two Biluchis within.

It was a pitch-dark night; nothing broke the blackness save the scattered points of light from
the sentries' lanterns. So said the fisherman giving half of all money brought from
Arabia, and the fisherman kissed the stunned and confused's Friend Cador plants, and we last
name his guardian angel.

Zadig news did not stop to ask, and shed tears. What, sir, "said the fisherman, You are also unhappy
to be beneficial? Hundred times more unhappy than you, "replied Zadig. How may be, he said
the good man, that is the one who gives more to be pitied than to receive? Because your great
misfortune, "replied Zadig, was the need, and mine depends on the coraron. Would you Orcan
stolen to your wife? 'said the fisherman. This question he brought to mind Zadig all his adventures,
and made him go through the list of all their woes, starting with queen bitch until arrival
at the house of the bandit Arboga. Ha, 'said the fisherman, Orcan is worthy of punishment, but
these are usually men who are in Privanza destination. Anyway, go to the house of Mr. Cador,
and wait. Separáronse with this: the fisherman it was giving thanks
to his star, and constantly cursing Zadig yours.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The basilisk.

Zadig came to a beautiful meadow, where he saw a crowd of wives who were looking for caring thing
that had seemed lost. He approached one of them, and asked if I wanted that help them find what
they wanted to find. God forbid, said the Syria, what we we can touch only the women. Rare is
it, 'said Zadig: do me please tell me what it is that the women can only touch it? A basilisk,
"she said. A basilisk lady! Why what are you looking for a basilisk? For our lord and master
Ogul, whose palace are watching the banks of the river, and within this field, who are his most humble
slaves.

Mr. Ogul is bad, and your doctor has prescribed a basilisk eat boiled in water roses, and as
is very rare animal, and that only the women are catching dexamethasone, has promised Mr.
Ogul to choose for his beloved wife to bring him a basilisk that well dexádmele look, that you
see how much I would lose if one of my colleagues before I could Topara.

I leave this Zadig to Syria and to all others who seek their basilisk, and continued on his
way the prairie. On reaching the bank of a creek, he found another lady lying on lawns, not
looking for anything. It seemed majestic stature, although he had covered his face a veil. Head
was tilted to Anoy; exhaled from time to time deep sobs and held in his hand a wand with the qual
was esciibiendo letters in a fine sand between lawns and courage mediated. Zadig wanted to see
what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z, then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her
heart skip a beat, but never was both his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in
his name. Remained motionless for a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said:
"Generous Lady, forgive to a hapless foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter
here the name of Zadig, by thy divine hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted
with trembling hand the lady her veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering
to the various emotions that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the
queen of Babylon, the same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his
conscience accused him, those whose fate had cost so many tears. He
spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when their
eyes Cluver's eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused,
loving, O immortal powers! exclaimed, "Restitais me to my Astarte? While the Gujarati laid the hapless
man gently beside the gun that peeped through the embrasure of the parapet, Desmond picked
up the sentinel's matchlock, ran softly back, and summoned his companions. They came silently
up the steps. To fasten the rope securely to the gun carriage was the work of a few instants;
then the Gujarati mounted the parapet, and, swarming down the rope, sank into the darkness.
One by one the men followed; it came to the Babu's turn. Trembling with excitement and fear
he shrank back.

"I am afraid, sahib," he said.

Without hesitation Desmond drew up the rope and looped the end.

"Get into the loop," he whispered.

The Babu trembled but obeyed, and, assisting him to climb the parapet, Desmond lowered him
slowly to the foot of the wall. Then he himself descended  last of all, and on the rocks below
the little group was complete.

They were free. But the most difficult part of their enterprise was yet to come. Behind them
was the curtain of the fort; before them a short, shelving rocky beach and the open sea.

No time was wasted. Walking two by two for mutual support over the rough ground,  the  party
set off toward the jetty. They kept as close as possible to the wall, so that they would not
be seen if a sentinel should happen to look over the parapet; and being barefooted, the slight
sound they might make would be inaudible through the never-ceasing swish of the surf. Their
feet were cut by the sharp edges of the rocks; many a bruise they got; but they kept on their
silent way without a murmur.

Reaching  the angle of the wall, they had now perforce to leave its shelter, for their course
led past the outskirts of the native town across a comparatively open space. Fortunately the
night was very dark, and here and there on the shore were boats and small huts which afforded
some cover. The tide was on the ebb; and, when they at length struck the jetty,  it was at
a point some twenty yards from its shoreward end. Groping  beneath it they halted for a moment,
then the two Marathas separated  themselves  from  the rest and, with a whispered word of farewell,
disappeared like shadows into the blackness. The sea was not for them, they would take their
chance on land.

From a point some distance beyond the end of the jetty shone a faint glimmer of light. Desmond
silently drew the Gujarati's attention to it.

"They are gambling," whispered the man.

"So much the better for our chances," thought Desmond.

Turning to the Babu he whispered: "Now, Surendra Nath, you know what to do?"

"Yes, sahib."

Placing their bundles in the woodwork supporting the jetty, five members of the party--the
Biluchis, the Mysoreans, and the Babu--stole away in the darkness. Desmond and the Gujarati
were left alone. The Babu placed himself near the end of the jetty to keep guard. The two Mysoreans
struck off thence obliquely for a few yards until they came to a rude open shed in which the
Pirate's carpenters were wont to work during the rains. From a heap of shavings they drew a
small but heavy barrel. Carrying this between them they made their way with some difficulty
back towards the jetty, where they rejoined the Babu.

Meanwhile the Biluchis had returned some distance along the path by which they had come from
the fort, then turned off to the left, and came to a place where a number of small boats were
drawn up just above high water. The boats were the ordinary tonis {small boats cut out of the
solid tree, used for passing between the shore and larger vessels} of the coast, each propelled
by short scull paddles. Moving quickly but with great caution the Biluchis collected the paddles
from all these boats save one, carried them noiselessly down to the water's edge, waded a few
yards into the surf, and, setting down their burdens, pushed them gently seawards. They then
returned to the one boat which they had not robbed of its paddle, and lay down beside it, apparently
waiting.

By and by they were joined by the Mysoreans. The four men lifted the toni, and carrying it
down to the jetty, quietly launched it under the shadow of the woodwork. A few yards away the
Babu sat upon the barrel. This was lifted on board, and one of the men, tearing a long strip
from his dhoti, muffled the single paddle. Then all five men squatted at the waterside, awaiting
with true oriental patience the signal for further action.

Not one of them but was aware that the plight of the two sentries they had left behind them
in the fort might at any moment be discovered. The hourly call must be nearly due. When no
response came from the sentry whose beat ended at their shed the alarm would at once be given,
and in a few seconds the silent form of the sentinel on the bastion would be found, and the
whole garrison would be sped to their pursuit. Pierced Semira
the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it! Not moved the
danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with all the boldness
of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers, and he brought
to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig! said to him, I loved
like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored. Never overflowed
one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke so vividly of those
expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the most tender affection
of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and he recovered soon. Zadig
was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound near the eye. Semira
importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed in tears, waited impatiently
Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that formed in the injured eye
caused the greatest fear. Memphis sent to call the doctor famous Hermes, who came with a swollen
entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably perdia the eye, predicting up
to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there been, he said, the right
eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon hurt the fate of Zadig,
while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the boil burst naturally, and
healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed, the qual Zadig did not
read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness, and who only wanted
to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew the road Zadig,
who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the one-eyed, beautiful
lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was in no that your pain
will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could that feeling, and it
was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I am a victim, he said,
of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter of a respectable neighbor.
Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature, in whom there is any defect
noticed more nothingness, and there is little inclination to believe The cutest boys were always
the most wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you,
dear? Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow
has erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream that
bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign that
a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters who
was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret, hold,
in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a villa
of her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night had fallen
dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in
the grave of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair, and swore he
did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and wept both.
The next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most
of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with
it. They came to the ropes by which the vessel
was lashed to the next in the line. For a moment Desmond stood irresolute; then he led the
way swiftly and silently to the deck of the adjacent gallivat, crossed it without mishap, and
so across the third. Fortunately both were sailors, accustomed to finding their way on shipboard
in the night, as much by sense of touch as by sight. Being barefooted, only the sharpest ears,
deliberately on the alert, could have detected them.

They had now reached the fourth of the line of vessels. It was by far the largest of the fleet,
and for this reason Desmond had guessed that it would have been chosen for his quarters by
the serang {head of a crew} in charge  of  the watch. If he could secure this man he felt that
his hazardous enterprise would be half accomplished. This was indeed the pivot on which the
whole scheme turned, for in no other way would it be possible to seize the ten men on board
the gallivats without raising such an alarm as must shock fort, city, and harbor to instant
activity. And it was necessary to Desmond's plan, not only to secure the serang, but to secure
him alive.

The gallivat was Angria's own vessel, used in his visits up river to his country house, and,
during calm weather, in occasional excursions to Suwarndrug and the other forts on the sea
coast. As Desmond was aware, it boasted a large state cabin aft, and he thought it very probable
that the serang had appropriated this for his watch below.

Pausing a moment as they reached the vessel to make sure that no one was stirring, Desmond
and Fuzl Khan crept on to its deck and threw themselves down, again listening intently. From
the last vessel of the line came the sound of low voices, accompanied at intervals by the click
of the oblong bone dice with which the men were gambling. This was a boon, for when the Indian,
a born gambler, is engaged in one of his games of chance, he is oblivious of all else around
him. But on Angria's gallivat there was no sound. Rising to a crouching position, so that his
form could not be seen if any of the gamblers chanced to look in his direction, Desmond slowly
crept aft, halting at every few steps to listen. Still there was no sound.

But all at once he caught sight of a faint glow ahead; what was it? For a few seconds he was
puzzled. As he approached, the glow took shape; he saw that it was the entrance to the cabin,
the sliding door being half open. Creeping to the darker side, careful not to come within the
radius of the light, he stood erect, and again listened. From within came the snores of a sleeper.
Now he felt sure that his guess had been correct, for none but the serang would dare to occupy
the cabin, and even he would no doubt have cause to tremble if his presumption should come
to the Pirate's ears.

Keeping his body as much in the shadow as possible, Desmond craned his head forward and peeped
into the cabin. He could see little or nothing; the light came from a small oil lantern with
its face turned to the wall. Made of some vegetable substance, the oil gave off a pungent smell. Son, "replied the hermit, winds to swell
the sails of the ship, sometimes you are immersed, but without them you can not navigate. The bile
makes angry, and causes disease, but no one could not live bile. On earth everything is dangerous,
and all necessary.

Tratóse of Deleyte, and tested the hermit that was a gift of divinity, because man, he said,
for himself can not have feelings or ideas: everything in it is borrowed,
and the penalty and the delight will come from another, as their very
being.

Zadig Pasmábase that a man who had committed so many blunders, runs with both success. Finally
after a conversation no less pleasant than instructive, led his guest to the two walking into a
room, giving thanks to heaven that he had sent two men so wise and virtuous. Brindóles with
money from a naive and noble so that he could not upset: rehusóle the hermit, and told him that
he said goodbye to him, because to be assumed to mind Babylon before
dawn.

Their separation was affectionate, and specialty Zadig remained esteem and affection penetrated
so kind to host.

Quando was with the hermit in his place, did both a pompous eulogy
of his guest. At daybreak, awakened his old comrade. Come on, told
him, I however, whilst sleeping around the world, to this good man
dexar proof of my esteem and my affection. Saying this, he took a
torch and set fire to the house. There was no other in the cabin. Having discovered all that he wished to know,
Desmond crawled backward as carefully as he had come.

At the moment of discovery he had felt the eager boy's impulse to spring upon the sleeper at
once, but although his muscles had been hardened by a year of toil he doubted whether he had
sufficient physical strength to make absolutely sure of his man; a single cry, the sound of
a scuffle, might be fatal. The Gujarati, on the other hand, a man of great bulk, could be trusted
to overpower the victim by sheer weight, and with his iron clutch to insure that no sound came
from him. Desmond's only fear indeed was that the man, as in the case of the sentinel on the
bastion, might overdo his part and give him all too thorough a quietus.

He came to the entrance of the cabin. His appearance brought the Gujarati to his side.

"Remember, Fuzl Khan," he whispered, "we must keep the serang alive; not even stun him. You
understand?"

"I know, sahib."

Drawing him silently into the apartment and to the edge of the platform, Desmond again crept
to the lantern, and now turned it gradually still farther inwards until the form of the sleeper
could be distinctly seen. The  light was still dim; but it occurred to Desmond that the glow,
increased  now that the lantern was turned round, might attract the attention of the gamblers
on the gallivat at the end of the line. So, while the Gujarati stood at the platform, ready
to pounce on the sleeper as a cat on a mouse if he made the least movement, Desmond tiptoed
to the door and began to close the sliding panel. It gave a slight creak; the sleeper stirred;
Desmond quickly pushed the panel home, and as he did so the serang sat up, rubbing his eyes
and looking in sleepy suspicion towards the lantern.

While his knuckles were still at his eyes Fuzl Khan was upon him. A brief scuffle, almost noiseless,
on the linen covering of the divan; a heavy panting for breath; then silence. The Gujarati
relaxed his grip on the man's throat; he made another attempt to cry out; but the firm fingers
tightened their pressure and the incipient cry was choked in a feeble gurgle. Once more the
hapless serang tried to rise; Fuzl Khan pressed him down and shook him vigorously. He saw that
it was useless to resist, and lay limp and half throttled in his captor's hands.

By this time Desmond had turned the lantern full upon the scene. Coming to the man's head,
while the Gujarati still held him by the throat, he said, in low, rapid, but determined tones:

"Obey, and your life will be spared. But if you attempt to raise an alarm you will be lost.
Answer my questions. Where is there some loose rope on board?"

The man hesitated to reply, but a squeeze from the Gujarati decided him.

"There is a coil near the mainmast," he said.

Desmond slipped out, and in a few seconds returned with several yards of thin coir, a strong
rope made of cocoanut fiber. Soon the serang lay bound hand and foot. 

It seemed delicious the first day, and was convinced he was honored as the king of kings to his credit.
The second was a little less pleasant, the third was bothered, the quarto no I could stand,
the fifth was a torment, and finally, tired of constantly heard singing: How proud, how glad
to be of itself give his glory! that always shall say that was right, and you repeat the same
pep talk every day to his own time, wrote to the court pleading with the king that was worthy
of being called to his gentlemen, musicians and Butler, promising to have more application and
less vanity. Then like less of sycophants, given less holiday, and was happier, because, as the Sader,
ceaselessly pleasures are not pleasures.

CHAPTER VII.

Disputes and hearings.

In this way every day Zadig credited his quick wit and good heart, all looking at him with admiration,
and love him however. It was reputedly the most fortunate of men were full the empire of his name;
guiñábanle to sneak all the women, praised his justification all
citizens, scholars regarded him as an oracle, and even the magicians
confess I knew more about the old arch-wizard Siara, so distant from
the train you get tired about taps, which is only believed what seemed
to him credible.

Queen of fifteen hundred years ago a great struggle in Babylon, which had divided the empire
into two antagonistic sects one ever sustained was due to enter Temple of Mithras the left foot
forward, and the other looked like an abomination style, and always wore the right foot forward.
Everyone looked forward to the day of the feast of the sacred fire, to see which sect Zadig
favored: all had eyes fixed on his two feet, the whole city was suspended and agitated. Zadig
entered in Skip to Main temple, face value, and then in an eloquent speech pointed out that
the God of heaven and earth, not privilege any one looks, the same case made of left foot that's
right. 'Said the envious and his wife there was not enough figures in his speech, Vian Baylan
where no mountains or hills. They said that there was not in it or not xugo talent, not driven
away through the sea, stars and earth and the sun melted like Beeswax, at last, it was not in
good oriental style. Zadig did not aspire to more than that his style was the reason. Everyone
declared in his favor, not because I was in the path of truth, not
because it was discreet, not because he was kind, but because he was
prime vizier.

No less happy given to another intrincadísimo pleyto top of the
white with black magicians.

When the last of the watchmen was thus secured, Desmond crept to the vessel nearest the shore
and, making a bell of his hands, sent a low hail across the surface of the water in the direction
of the jetty. He waited anxiously, peering into the darkness, straining his ears. Five minutes
passed, fraught with the pain of uncertainty and suspense. Then he caught the faint sound of
ripples: he fancied he descried a dark form on the water; it drew nearer, became more definite.

"Is that you, sahib?" said a low voice.

"Yes."

He gave a great sigh of relief. The toni drew alongside, and soon five men,  with bundles,
muskets, and the small heavy barrel, stood with Desmond and the Gujarati on the deck of the
gallivat. No, sir, "replied the fisherman; I
know, is that neither the queen nor Zadig has paid me my curds that I have stolen my wife,
and I'm desperate. I hope, 'said Zadig, that you have not lost all your money.
 What time had passed since they had left the shed
he was unable to guess; the moments had been so crowded that any reckoning was impossible.
But when, as he waited for the coming of the boat, his mind ran over the incidents of the flight--the
trussing of the sentry, the wary approach to the bastion, the tragic fate of the sentinel there,
the stealthy creeping along the shore, the swim to the gallivats and all that had happened
since: as he recalled these things, he could not but wonder that the alarm he dreaded had not
already been given. 

Presented himself to it, and be good place after her beauty more expensive, and having quan
pitiful thing was that so many perfections were burned down, also praised his persistence and effort.
Both "You wanted your husband? said to him. Want? Certainly not, Arab lady answered: if it was a
boorish, a jealous, insufferable man, but made Tongo firm intention to tear me to his campfire.
Without doubt, 'said Zadig, which must be an exquisite taste that of burning alive.
 Meanwhile Desmond himself, with the
rest of the men, set about preparing the gallivat in which he was about to make his next move.

