On issuing from the strait, we turned southward into the great Porsanger Fjord, which stretches
nearly a hundred miles into the heart of Lapland, dividing Western from Eastern Finmark. Its
shores are high monotonous hills, half covered with snow, and barren of vegetation except patches
of grass and moss. If once wooded, like the hills of the Alten Fjord, the trees have long since
disappeared, and now nothing can be more bleak and desolate. The wind blew violently from the
east, gradually lifting a veil of grey clouds from the cold pale sky, and our slow little steamer
with jib and fore-topsail set, made somewhat better progress. Toward evening (if there is such
a time in the arctic summer), we reached Kistrand, the principal settlement on the fjord. It
has eight or nine houses, scattered along a gentle slope a mile in length, and a little red
church, but neither gardens, fields, nor potato patches. A strip of grazing ground before the
principal house was yellow with dandelions, the slope behind showed patches of brownish green
grass, and above this melancholy attempt at summer stretched the cold, grey, snow-streaked
ridge of the hill. Two boats, manned by sea-Lapps, with square blue caps, and long ragged locks
of yellow hair fluttering in the wind, brought off the only passenger and the mails, and we
put about for the mouth of the fjord.

Running along under the eastern shore, we exchanged the dreadful monotony through which we
had been sailing for more rugged and picturesque scenery. Before us rose a wall of dark cliff,
from five to six hundred feet in height, gaping here and there with sharp clefts or gashes,
as if it had cracked in cooling, after the primeval fires. The summit of these cliffs was the
average level of the country; and this peculiarity, I found, applies to all the northern shore
of Finmark, distinguishing the forms of the capes and islands from those about Alten and Hammerfest,
which, again, are quite different from those of the Lofodens. "On returning from Spitzbergen,"
said a Hammerfest merchant to me, "I do not need to look at chart or compass, when I get sight
of the coast; I know, from the formation of the cliffs, exactly where I am." There is some
general resemblance to the chalk bluffs of England, especially about Beachy Head, but the rock
here appears to be mica-slate, disposed in thin, vertical strata, with many violent transverse
breaks.

As we approached the end of the promontory which divides the Porsanger from the Laxe Fjord,
the rocks became more abrupt and violently shattered. Huge masses, fallen from the summit,
lined the base of the precipice, which was hollowed into cavernous arches, the home of myriads
of sea-gulls. The rock of Sværholtklub, off the point, resembled a massive fortress in ruins.
Its walls of smooth masonry rested on three enormous vaults, the piers of which were buttressed
with slanting piles of rocky fragments. The ramparts, crenelated in some places, had mouldered
away in others, and one fancied he saw in the rents and scars of the giant pile the marks of
the shot and shell which had wrought its ruin. Thousands of white gulls, gone to their nightly
roost, rested on every ledge and cornice of the rock; but preparations were already made to
disturb their slumbers. The steamer's cannon was directed towards the largest vault, and discharged.
The fortress shook with the crashing reverberation; "then rose a shriek, as of a city sacked"--a
wild, piercing, maddening, myriad-tongued cry, which still rings in my ears. With the cry,
came a rushing sound, as of a tempest among the woods; a white cloud burst out of the hollow
arch-way, like the smoke of an answering shot, and, in the space of a second, the air was filled
with birds, thicker than autumn leaves, and rang with one universal, clanging shriek. A second
shot, followed by a second outcry and an answering discharge from the other caverns, almost
darkened the sky. The whirring, rustling and screaming, as the birds circled overhead, or dropped
like thick scurries of snow-flakes on the water, was truly awful. There could not have been
less than fifty thousand in the air at one time, while as many more clung to the face of the
rock, or screamed from the depth of the vaults. Such an indignation meeting I never attended
before; but, like many others I have heard of, the time for action was passed before they had
decided what to do.

It was now eleven o'clock, and Sværholt glowed in fiery bronze lustre as we rounded it, the
eddies of returning birds gleaming golden in the nocturnal sun, like drifts of beech leaves
in the October air. Far to the north, the sun lay in a bed of saffron light over the clear
horizon of the Arctic Ocean. A few bars of dazzling orange cloud floated above him, and still
higher in the sky, where the saffron melted through delicate rose-colour into blue, hung light
wreaths of vapour, touched with pearly, opaline flushes of pink and golden grey. The sea was
a web of pale slate-colour, shot through and through with threads of orange and saffron, from
the dance of a myriad shifting and twinkling ripples. The air was filled and permeated with
the soft, mysterious glow, and even the very azure of the southern sky seemed to shine through
a net of golden gauze. The headlands of this deeply-indented coast--the capes of the Laxe and
Porsanger Fjords, and of Mageröe--lay around us, in different degrees of distance, but all
with foreheads touched with supernatural glory. Far to the north-east was Nordkyn, the most
northern point of the mainland of Europe, gleaming rosily and faint in the full beams of the
sun, and just as our watches denoted midnight the North Cape appeared to the westward--a long
line of purple bluff, presenting a vertical front of nine hundred feet in height to the Polar
Sea. Midway between those two magnificent headlands stood the Midnight Sun, shining on us with
subdued fires, and with the gorgeous colouring of an hour for which we have no name, since
it is neither sunset nor sunrise, but the blended loveliness of both--but shining at the same
moment, in the heat and splendour of noonday, on the Pacific Isles.

This was the midnight sun as I had dreamed it--as I had hoped to see it.

Within fifteen minutes after midnight, there was a perceptible increase of altitude, and in
less than half an hour the whole tone of the sky had changed, the yellow brightening into orange,
and the saffron melting into the pale vermilion of dawn. Yet it was neither the colours, nor
the same character of light as we had had, half an hour before midnight. The difference was
so slight as scarcely to be described; but it was the difference between evening and morning.
The faintest transfusion of one prevailing tint into another had changed the whole expression
of heaven and earth, and so imperceptibly and miraculously that a new day was already present
to our consciousness. Our view of the wild cliffs of Sværholt, less than two hours before,
belonged to yesterday, though we had stood on deck, in full sunshine, during all the intervening
time. Had the sensation of a night slipped through our brains in the momentary winking of the
eyes? Or was the old routine of consciousness so firmly stereotyped in our natures, that the
view of a morning was sufficient proof to them of the preëxistence of a night? Let those explain
the phenomenon who can--but I found my physical senses utterly at war with those mental perceptions
wherewith they should harmonise. The eye saw but one unending day; the mind notched the twenty-four
hours on its calendar, as before.

Before one o'clock we reached the entrance of the Kiöllefjord, which in the pre-diluvial times
must have been a tremendous mountain gorge, like that of Gondo, on the Italian side of the
Simplon. Its mouth is about half a mile in breadth, and its depth is not more than a mile and
a half. It is completely walled in with sheer precipices of bare rock, from three to five hundred
feet in height, except at the very head, where they subside into a stony heap, upon which some
infatuated mortals have built two or three cabins. As we neared the southern headland, the
face of which was touched with the purest orange light, while its yawning fissures lay in deep-blue
gloom, a tall ruin, with shattered turrets and crumbling spires, detached itself from the mass,
and stood alone at the foot of the precipice. This is the Finnkirka, or "Church of the Lapps,"
well known to all the northern coasters. At first it resembles a tall church with a massive
square spire; but the two parts separate again, and you have a crag-perched castle of the middle-ages,
with its watch-tower--the very counterpart of scores in Germany--and a quaint Gothic chapel
on the point beyond. The vertical strata of the rock, worn into sharp points at the top and
gradually broadening to the base, with numberless notched ornaments and channels fluted by
the rain, make the resemblance marvellous, when seen under the proper effects of light and
shade. The lustre in which we saw it had the effect of enchantment. There was a play of colours
upon it, such as one sees in illuminated Moorish halls, and I am almost afraid to say how much
I was enraptured by a scene which has not its equal on the whole Norwegian coast, yet of which
none of us had ever heard before.

We landed a single passenger--a government surveyor apparently--on the heap of rocks beyond,
and ran out under the northern headland, which again charmed us with a glory peculiarly its
own. Here the colours were a part of the substance of the rock, and the sun but heightened
and harmonised their tones. The huge projecting masses of pale yellow had a mellow gleam, like
golden chalk; behind them were cliffs, violet in shadow; broad strata of soft red, tipped on
the edges with vermilion; thinner layers, which shot up vertically to the height of four or
five hundred feet, and striped the splendid sea-wall with lines of bronze, orange, brown, and
dark red, while great rents and breaks interrupted these marvellous frescoes with their dashes
of uncertain gloom. I have seen many wonderful aspects of nature, in many lands, but rock-painting
such as this I never beheld. A part of its effect may have been owing to atmospheric conditions
which must be rare, even in the North; but, without such embellishments, I think the sight
of this coast will nobly repay any one for continuing his voyage beyond Hammerfest.

We lingered on deck, as point after point revealed some change in the dazzling diorama, uncertain
which was finest, and whether something still grander might not be in store. But at last Nordkyn
drew nigh, and at three o'clock the light became that of day, white and colourless. The north-east
wind blew keenly across the Arctic Ocean, and we were both satisfied and fatigued enough to
go to bed. It was the most northern point of our voyage--about 71° 20', which is further north
than I ever was before, or ever wish to be again.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE VARANGER FJORD.--ARCTIC LIFE.

When we awoke, after six hours' sleep, with curtains drawn to keep out the daylight, our steamer
was deep in the Tana Fjord, which receives the waters of the Tana River, the largest Lapland
stream flowing into the Arctic Ocean. The greater part of the day was consumed in calling at
two settlements of three houses each, and receiving and delivering mails of one letter, or
less. The shores of this fjord are steep hills of bare rock, covered with patches of snow to
the water's edge. The riven walls of cliff, with their wonderful configuration and marvellous
colouring, were left behind us, and there was nothing of the grand or picturesque to redeem
the savage desolation of the scenery. The chill wind, blowing direct from Nova Zembla, made
us shiver, and even the cabin saloon was uncomfortable without a fire. After passing the most
northern point of Europe, the coast falls away to the south-east, so that on the second night
we were again in the latitude of Hammerfest, but still within the sphere of perpetual sunshine.
Our second night of sun was not so rich in colouring as the first, yet we remained on deck
long enough to see the orb rise again from his lowest dip, and change evening into morning
by the same incomprehensible process. There was no golden transfiguration of the dreadful shore;
a wan lustre played over the rocks--pictures of eternal death--like a settled pallor of despair
on Nature's stony face.

One of the stations on this coast, named Makur, consisted of a few fishermen's huts, at the
bottom of a dismal rocky bight. There was no grass to be seen, except some tufts springing
from the earth with which the roofs were covered, and it was even difficult to see where so
much earth had been scraped together. The background was a hopelessly barren hill, more than
half enveloped in snow. And this was midsummer--and human beings passed their lives here! "Those
people surely deserve to enter Paradise when they die," I remarked to my friend, "for they
live in hell while upon earth." "Not for that," he answered, "but because it is impossible
for them to commit sin. They cannot injure their neighbours, for they have none. They cannot
steal, for there is nothing to tempt them. They cannot murder, for there are none of the usual
incentives to hate and revenge. They have so hard a struggle merely to live, that they cannot
fall into the indulgences of sense; so that if there is nothing recorded in their favour, there
is also nothing against them, and they commence the next life with blank books."

"But what a life!" I exclaimed. "Men may be happy in poverty, in misfortune, under persecution,
in life-long disease even, so that they are not wholly deprived of the genial influences of
society and Nature--but what is there here?" "They know no other world," said he, "and this
ignorance keeps them from being miserable. They do no more thinking than is necessary to make
nets and boats, catch fish and cook them, and build their log-houses. Nature provides for their
marrying and bringing up their children, and the pastor, whom they see once in a long time,
gives them their religion ready made." God keep them ignorant, then! was my involuntary prayer.
May they never lose their blessed stupidity, while they are chained to these rocks and icy
seas! May no dreams of summer and verdure, no vision of happier social conditions, or of any
higher sphere of thought and action, flash a painful light on the dumb-darkness of their lives!

The next day, we were in the Varanger Fjord, having passed the fortress of Vardöhuus and landed
our military committee. The Norwegian shore was now low and tame, but no vegetation, except
a little brown grass, was to be seen. The Russian shore, opposite, and some twenty-five or
thirty miles distant, consisted of high, bold hills, which, through a glass, appeared to be
partially wooded. The Varanger Fjord, to which so important a political interest has attached
within the last few years, is about seventy miles in depth, with a general direction towards
the south-west. The boundary-line between Norwegian and Russian Finmark strikes it upon the
southern side, about half-way from the mouth, so that three-fourths, or more, of the waters
of the fjord belong to Norway. There is, however, a wonderful boundary-line, in addition, drawn
by Nature between the alien waters. That last wave of the Gulf Stream which washes the North
Cape and keeps the fjords of Finmark open and unfrozen the whole year through, sweeps eastward
along the coast, until it reaches the head of Varanger Fjord. Here its power is at last spent,
and from this point commences that belt of solid ice which locks up the harbours of the northern
coast of Russia for six months in the year. The change from open water to ice is no less abrupt
than permanent. Pastor Hvoslef informed me that in crossing from Vadsö, on the northern coast,
to Pasvik, the last Norwegian settlement, close upon the Russian frontier, as late as the end
of May, he got out of his boat upon the ice, and drove three or four miles over the frozen
sea, to reach his destination.

The little fort of Vardöhuus, on an island at the northern entrance of the fjord, is not a
recent defence, meant to check Russian plans in this quarter. It was established by Christian
IV. nearly two and a half centuries ago. The king himself made a voyage hither, and no doubt
at that time foresaw the necessity of establishing, by military occupation, the claims of Denmark
to this part of the coast. The little fortress has actually done this service; and though a
single frigate might easily batter it to pieces, its existence has kept Russia from the ownership
of the Varanger Fjord and the creation (as is diplomatically supposed,) of an immense naval
station, which, though within the Arctic waters, would at all times of the year be ready for
service. It is well known that Russia has endeavoured to obtain possession of the northern
side of the fjord, as well as of the Lyngen Fjord, near Tromsöe, towards which her Lapland
territory stretches out a long arm. England is particularly suspicious of these attempts, and
the treaty recently concluded between the Allied Powers and Sweden had a special reference
thereto. The importance of such an acquisition to Russia is too obvious to be pointed out,
and the jealous watchfulness of England is, therefore, easy to understand. But it is a singular
thing that the conflicting forces of Europe find a fulcrum on a little corner of this dead,
desolate, God-forsaken shore.

About ten o'clock we reached Vadsö, the limit of the steamer's route. Here we had intended
taking a boat, continuing our voyage to Nyborg, at the head of the fjord, crossing thence to
the Tana, and descending that river in season to meet the steamer in the Tana Fjord on her
return. We were behind time, however, and the wind was light; the people informed us that we
could scarcely carry out the project; so we reluctantly gave it up, and went ashore to spend
the day. Vadsö is a town of about 800 inhabitants, with a secure though shallow harbour, which
was crowded with fishing vessels and Russian traders from the White Sea. It lies on the bleak
hill-side, without a tree or bush, or a patch of grass large enough to be seen without close
inspection, and its only summer perfume is that of dried fish. I saw in gardens attached to
one or two houses a few courageous radishes and some fool-hardy potatoes, which had ventured
above ground without the least chance of living long enough to blossom. The snow had been four
feet deep in the streets in the beginning of June, and in six weeks it would begin to fall
again. A few forlorn cows were hunting pasture over the hills, now and then looking with melancholy
resignation at the strings of codfish heads hanging up to dry, on the broth of which they are
fed during the winter. I took a walk and made a sketch during the afternoon, but the wind was
so chill that I was glad to come back shivering to our quarters.

We obtained lodgings at the house of a baker, named Aas, who had learned the art of charging,
and was therefore competent to conduct a hotel. In order to reach our room, we were obliged
to pass successively through the family dwelling-room, kitchen, and a carpenter's workshop,
but our windows commanded a full view of a grogshop across the way, where drunken Lapps were
turned out with astonishing rapidity. It was the marriage month of the Lapps, and the town
was full of young couples who had come down to be joined, with their relatives and friends,
all in their gayest costumes. Through the intervention of the postmaster, I procured two women
and a child, as subjects for a sketch. They were dressed in their best, and it was impossible
not to copy the leer of gratified vanity lurking in the corners of their broad mouths. The
summer dress consisted of a loose gown of bright green cloth, trimmed on the neck and sleeves
with bands of scarlet and yellow, and a peculiar head-dress, shaped like a helmet, but with
a broader and flatter crest, rounded in front. This, also, was covered with scarlet cloth,
and trimmed with yellow and blue. They were greatly gratified with the distinction, and all
the other Lapps, as in Kautokeino, would have willingly offered themselves. I found the same
physical characteristics here as there--a fresh, ruddy complexion, inclining to tawny; bright
blue eyes, brown hair, high cheek-bones, and mouths of enormous width. They are not strikingly
below the average size, Heine says, in one of his mad songs:

     "In Lapland the people are dirty,
       Flat-headed, and broad-mouthed, and small
     They squat round the fire while roasting
       Their fishes, and chatter and squall;"

which is as good a description of them as can be packed into a stanza. On the present occasion
they were all drunk, in addition. One of them lay for a long time at the door, with his legs
doubled under him as he fell, the others stepping over his body as they went in and out. These
poor creatures were openly and shamelessly allowed to drug themselves, as long as their money
lasted. No wonder the race is becoming extinct, when the means of destruction is so freely offered.

Vadsö, although only forty miles from Vardö, at the mouth of the fjord, has a much drier and
more agreeable climate, and the inhabitants are therefore loud in praise of their place. "We
have no such fogs as at Vardö," say they; "our fish dry much better, and some years we can
raise potatoes." For the last four or five years, however, the winters have been getting more
and more severe, and now it is impossible to procure hay enough to keep their few cattle through
the winter. We had on board a German who had been living there five years, and who appeared
well satisfied with his lot. "I have married here," said he; "I make a good living with less
trouble than in Germany, and have no wish to return." Singularly enough, there were also two
Italian organ grinders on board, whom I accosted in their native language; but they seemed
neither surprised nor particularly pleased. They dropped hints of having been engaged in some
political conspiracy; and one of them said, with a curious mixture of Italian and Norsk words
"Jeg voglio ikke ritornare." I said the same thing ("I shall not return") as I left Vadsö.

We sailed early the next morning, and in the afternoon reached Vardö, where we lay three hours.
Here we took on board the three officers, who had in the meantime made their inspection. Vardöhuus
is a single star-shaped fort, with six guns and a garrison of twenty-seven men. During the
recent war, the garrison was increased to three hundred--an unnecessary precaution, if there
was really any danger of an attack to be apprehended, so long as the defences of the place
were not strengthened. One of the officers, who had gone out fishing the night previous, caught
eighty-three splendid cod in the space of two hours. It was idle sport, however, for no one
would take his fish as a gift, and they were thrown on the shore to rot. The difficulty is
not in catching but in curing them. Owing to the dampness of the climate they cannot be hung
up on poles to dry slowly, like the stock-fish of the Lofodens, but must be first salted and
then laid on the rocks to dry, whence the term klip (cliff) fish, by which they are known in trade.

At the mouth of the Tana we picked up four Englishmen, who had been salmon fishing on the river.
They were sunburnt, spotted with mosquito bites, and had had little luck, the river being full
of nets and the fjord of seals, between which the best of the salmon are either caught or devoured;
but they spoke of their experience with true English relish. "Oh, it was very jolly!" said
one: "we were so awfully bitten by mosquitoes. Then our interpreter always lost everything
just before we wanted it--think of his losing our frying-pan, so that we had to fry in the
lids of our kettles; He had a habit of falling overboard and getting nearly drowned before
we could pull him in. We had a rough time of it, but it was very jolly, I assure you!" The
young fellows meant what they said; they were all the better for their roughing, and I wish
the spindle-shanked youths who polk and flirt at Newport and Saratoga had manliness enough
for such undertakings.

We reached Hammerfest on the last day of July, and re-occupied our old quarters. That night
the sun went below the horizon for the first time in eight days, but his depth was too slight
to make any darkness visible. I was quite tired of the unending daylight, and would willingly
have exchanged the pomp of the arctic midnight for the starlit darkness of home. We were confused
by the loss of night; we lost the perception of time. One is never sleepy, but simply tired,
and after a sleep of eight hours by sunshine, wakes up as tired as ever. His sleep at last
is broken and irregular; he substitutes a number of short naps, distributed through the twenty-four
hours, for the one natural repose, and finally gets into a state of general uneasiness and
discomfort. A Hammerfest merchant, who has made frequent voyages to Spitzbergen, told me that
in the latitude of 80° he never knew certainly whether it was day or night, and the cook was
the only person on board who could tell him.

At first the nocturnal sunshine strikes you as being wonderfully convenient. You lose nothing
of the scenery; you can read and write as usual; you never need be in a hurry, because there
is time enough for everything. It is not necessary to do your day's work in the daytime, for
no night cometh. You are never belated, and somewhat of the stress of life is lifted from your
shoulders; but, after a time, you would be glad of an excuse to stop seeing, and observing,
and thinking, and even enjoying. There is no compulsive rest such as darkness brings--no sweet
isolation, which is the best refreshment of sleep. You lie down in the broad day, and the summons,
"Arise!" attends on every reopening of your eyes. I never went below and saw my fellow-passengers
all asleep around me without a sudden feeling that something was wrong: they were drugged,
or under some unnatural influence, that they thus slept so fast while the sunshine streamed
in through the port-holes.

There are some advantages of this northern summer which have presented themselves to me in
rather a grotesque light. Think what an aid and shelter is removed from crime--how many vices
which can only flourish in the deceptive atmosphere of night, must be checked by the sober
reality of daylight! No assassin can dog the steps of his victim; no burglar can work in sunshine;
no guilty lover can hold stolen interviews by moonlight--all concealment is removed, for the
sun, like the eye of God, sees everything, and the secret vices of the earth must be bold indeed,
if they can bear his gaze. Morally, as well as physically, there is safety in light and danger
in darkness; and yet give me the darkness and the danger! Let the patrolling sun go off his
beat for awhile, and show a little confidence in my ability to behave properly, rather than
worry me with his sleepless vigilance.

I have described the smells of Hammerfest, which are its principal characteristic. It seemed
to me the dreariest place in the world on first landing, a week previous; but, by contrast
with what we had in the meantime seen, it became rather cheerful and comfortable. I was visiting
a merchant after our return, and noticed with pleasure a stunted ash about eight feet high,
in an adjoining garden. "Oh!" said he, in a tone of irritated pride, "we have plenty of trees
here; there is quite a forest up the valley." This forest, after some search, I found. The
trees were about six feet high, and some of them might have been as thick as my wrist. In the
square before the merchant's house lay a crowd of drunken Lapps, who were supplied with as
much bad brandy as they wanted by a licensed grogshop. The Russian sailors made use of the
same privilege, and we frequently heard them singing and wrangling on board their White Sea
junks. They were unapproachably picturesque, especially after the day's work was over, when
they generally engaged in hunting in the extensive forests of their beards, and exercised the
law of retaliation on all the game they caught.

A long street of turf-roofed houses, whose inhabitants may be said to be under the sod even
before they die, leads along the shore of the bay to a range of flakes redolent of drying codfish.
Beyond this you clamber over rocks and shingles to a low grassy headland, whereon stands a
pillar commemorating the measurement of a meridian line of 25° 20', from the Danube to the
Polar Sea, which was accomplished by the Governments of Austria, Russia, and Sweden, between
the years 1816 and 1852. The pillar marks the northern terminus of the line, and stands in
lat. 70° 40' 11.3". It is a plain shaft of polished red granite, standing on a base of grey
granite, and surmounted by a bronze globe, on which a map of the earth is roughly outlined.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE RETURN TO DARKNESS.--NORWEGIAN CHARACTER.

I do not intend to trace our return, step by step, down the Norwegian coast. The splendid weather
which prevailed during our upward voyage, enabled us to see all the interesting points, leaving
only those parts which we missed in the few hours devoted to sleep, to give a little novelty
to our return. During the whole trip we had not a drop of rain,--the rarest good fortune in
these latitudes,--and were therefore twice enabled to enjoy, to the fullest extent, the sublime
scenery of the Lofoden Isles and the coast of Nordland. This voyage has not its like in the
world. The traveller, to whom all other lands are familiar, has here a new volume of the most
wonderful originality and variety, opened to him. The days are illuminated pages, crowded with
pictures, the forms and hues of which he can never forget. After I returned to the zone of
darkness, and recovered from the stress and tension of three weeks of daylight, I first fully
appreciated the splendours of the arctic sun. My eyes were still dazzled with the pomp of colour,
and the thousand miles of coast, as I reviewed them in memory, with their chaos of island-pyramids
of shattered rock, their colossal cliffs, their twisted fjords, and long fjeld-levels of eternal
snow, swam in a sea of saffron and rosy light, in comparison with which the pale blue day around
me seemed dull and dead. My dream of the North, in becoming a reality, has retained the magical
atmosphere of dreams, and basks in the same gorgeous twilight which irradiates the Scandinavian
sagas.

I was particularly struck during the return, with the rapid progress of summer--the flying
leaps with which she clears her short course. Among the Lofodens, the potatoes were coming
into blossom, and the rye and barley into head; the grass was already cut, in many places,
and drying on poles, and the green of the woods and meadows showed the dark, rich character
of southern lands. Owing to this rapidity of growth, all the more hardy varieties of vegetables
may be successfully cultivated. Mr. Thomas informed me that his peas and beans at Kaafjord
(lat. 70° N.) grew three inches in twenty-four hours, and, though planted six weeks later than
those about Christiania, came to maturity at the same time. He has even succeeded in raising
excellent cauliflowers. But very few of the farmers have vegetable gardens, and those which
I saw contained only radishes and lettuce, with a few useful herbs. One finds the same passion
for flowers, however, as in Northern Sweden, and the poorest are rarely without a rose or a
geranium in their windows.

Pastor Hvoslef, who was again our fellow-traveller for a few hours, gave me some interesting
information concerning the Lapps. They are, it seems, entitled to the right of suffrage, and
to representation in the Storthing, equally with the Norwegians. The local jurisdiction repeats
on a small scale what the Storthing transacts on a large one, being entirely popular in its
character, except that the vogts and länsmen (whose powers are somewhat similar to those of
our judges and country magistrates) are not elected. But each district chooses from among its
inhabitants a committee to confer upon and arrange all ordinary local matters. These committees,
in turn, choose persons to constitute a higher body, who control the reciprocal relations of
the several districts, and intervene in case of difficulties between them. The system is necessarily
simpler and somewhat more primitive in its character than our local organisations in America;
but it appears at present to answer every purpose. The heavy responsibility resting upon judges
in Norway--the severity of the checks and penalties by which their probity is insured--probably
contributes to make the administration of the laws more efficacious and easy. The Lapps are
not a difficult people to govern, and much of the former antagonism between them and the poorer
classes of the Norwegians has passed away. There is little, if any, amalgamation of the two
races, nor will there ever be, but there is probably as little conflict between them as is
compatible with the difference of blood.

At Tromsöe, a tall, strong, clerical gentleman came on board, who proved to be the noted Pastor
Lamers, one of the first if not the very first Clergyman in Norway, who has refused to receive
the government support--or, in other words, has seceded from the Church, as a State establishment,
while adhering to all its fundamental doctrines. It is the first step towards the separation
of Church and State, which must sooner or later come, in Norway and in Sweden. He has a congregation
of three hundred members, in Tromsöe, and is about organising a church at Gibostad, on the
island of Senjen. He has some peculiar views, I believe, in relation to the baptism of children,
and insists that the usual absolution dealt out by the Pastors is of no effect without full
confession and the specification of particular sins--but in other respects he is entirely orthodox,
retaining even the ceremonial of the Eucharist. This, in the Lutheran church of Norway, comes
so near to the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation, that one cannot easily perceive
any difference. Instead of bread, an unleavened wafer is administered to the communicants,
the priest saying, as he gives it, "This is the true body and blood of Jesus Christ." Mr. Forrester,
a devout admirer of the Church, which he thinks identical with that of England in all its essentials,
says, "The Lutherans reject the Romish doctrine of transubstantiation, but they hold that of
a spiritual and ineffable union of the divine nature with the elements, the substance of which
remains unchanged. This is called consubstantiation." Verily, the difference between tweedledum
and tweedledee--one being as absurd as the other.

No one, coming from a land where all sects stand upon an equal footing, and where every church
must depend for existence on its own inherent vitality, can fail to be struck with the effete
and decrepit state of religion in Sweden and Norway. It is a body of frigid mechanical forms
and ceremonies, animated here and therewith a feeble spark of spiritual life, but diffusing
no quickening and animating glow. I have often been particularly struck with the horror with
which the omission of certain forms was regarded by persons in whom I could discover no trace
of any religious principle. The Church has a few dissensions to combat; she has not been weakened
by schism; but she is slowly ossifying from sheer inertia. The Reformation needs to be reformed
again, and perhaps the tardy privileges granted to the Haugianer and Läsare--the northern Methodists--may
result in producing a body of Dissenters large enough to excite emulation, action, and improvement.
In Norway, the pastors have the best salaries and the easiest places of all government officials.
Those who conscientiously discharge their duties have enough to do; but were this universally
the case, one would expect to find the people less filthy, stupid, and dishonest than they
are in many parts of the country. A specimen of the intelligence of one, who is now a member
of the Storthing, was communicated to me by a gentleman who heard it. The clergyman advocated
the establishment of telegraph lines in Norway, "not for the sake of sending news," said he,
"that is of no consequence. But it is well known that no wolf can pass under a telegraph wire,
and if we can get lines put up throughout the country, all the wolves will be obliged to leave!"
Of course, I do not mean to assert that the Norwegian clergymen, as a body, are not sincere,
zealous, well-informed men. The evil lies rather in that system which makes religion as much
a branch of government service as law or diplomacy; and which, until very recently, has given
one sect an exclusive monopoly of the care of human souls.

I had a strong desire to converse with Pastor Lamers in relation to the stand he has taken,
but he was surrounded by a crowd of persons during his stay on board, and no opportunity presented
itself. The sensation which his presence produced, showed that there are restless elements
at work in the mind of the people. The stony crust is beginning to heave and split at last.
Even the deck-passengers gathered into little groups and talked earnestly. Two gentlemen near
me were discussing the question of an Established Church, one contending, that a variety of
sects tended only to confuse, perplex, and unchristianise the uneducated, unthinking class,
while the other asserted that this very class adhered most tenaciously to whatever faith had
been taught them. At this moment a woman standing near us exclaimed: "There were false prophets
in all times, and there are false prophets now! We must beware of them!"--the earnestness of
her speech affording a good comment on the argument just produced. Whatever may be the popular
opinion concerning the course of Pastor Lamers, I could not but notice the marked respect displayed
by every one who approached him.

In passing Hindöe we saw two magnificent golden eagles wheeling around one of the loftiest
cliffs. The wind blew strongly from the south-west, increasing until we had what sailors call
a dry gale in crossing the West Fjord, but it abated the next day and by the late twilight
we recrossed the arctic circle. This night there was great rejoicing on board, at the discovery
of a star. We had not seen one for a month, and some of the passengers coming from Finmark
had been more than two months in daylight. While we were all gazing upon it as upon some extraordinary
phenomenon, a flood of yellow lamp-light suddenly streamed through the cabin skylight. The
sky was still brilliant with sunset in the north, but it was dark enough to see to sleep. We
could not yet cover ourselves all over, even as with a cloak; still there was a shelter and
friendly covering for the helpless body. Our sleep became sound and regular, and its old power
of restoration was doubly sweet, since we had known what it was to be deprived of it.

Our fellow-passengers, after leaving Carlsoe, where the young Englishmen stopped to hunt, were
almost exclusively Norwegian, and this gave us further opportunities of becoming acquainted
with some peculiarities of the national character. Intelligent Norwegians, especially those
who have travelled, are exceedingly courteous, gentlemanly, and agreeable persons. The three
officers on board were men of unusual intelligence and refinement, and we considered ourselves
fortunate in having their company during the entire voyage. The landhand lare, or country merchants,
and government officials of the lower ranks, exhibit more reserve, and not unfrequently a considerable
amount of ignorance and prejudice. Perhaps the most general feature of the Norwegian character
is an excessive national vanity, which is always on the alert, and fires up on the slightest
provocation. Say everything you like, except that Norway in any respect is surpassed by any
other country. One is assailed with questions about his impressions of the scenery, people,
government, &c.--a very natural and pardonable curiosity, it is true, and one only demands
in return that his candour be respected, and no offence taken. This, however, is rarely the
case. If there is no retaliatory answer on the spot, you hear a remark days afterwards which
shows how your mild censure has rankled in the mind of the hearer. My friend was asked by a
passenger whether he did not think the women of Finmark very beautiful. It was impossible to
answer in the affirmative: the questioner went off in high dudgeon, and did not speak to him
again for several days.

In the Varanger Fjord, we had pretty freely expressed our impressions of the desolate coast.
Afterwards on returning past the grand cliff scenery of Nordkyn, we were admiring some bold
formation of the rocks, when a Norwegian came up and said, in a tone of angry irony: "Ah, you
find a little to admire at last, do you? You find some beauty in our country, after all?" So
in regard to the government. The Norwegians may be justly proud of their constitution, which
is as republican in its character as our own. There is so much in the administration of the
government which every one must heartily commend, that they should be less sensitive in regard
to minor faults. This sensitiveness, however, is partly accounted for, when we remember that
for four hundred years Norway was a Danish province, and that only forty-three years ago she
leaped at once from subjection to a freedom such as no other country in Europe enjoys. The
intense pride and self-glorification of the people resembles that of a youth who for the first
time assumes a dress-coat and standing collar. King Oscar, on his accession to the throne,
gave the country a separate national flag, and nowhere does one see such a display of flags.
All over the land and all along the shores, the colours of Norway are flying.

Jealousy of Sweden and dislike of the Swedes are inherited feelings, and are kept alive by
a mutual prejudice on the part of the latter people. One cannot but smile a little at the present
union of Sweden and Norway, when he finds that the countries have separate currencies, neither
of which will pass at its full value in the other--separate tariffs, and of course Custom-house
examinations between the two, and, if the Norwegians had their way, would have separate diplomatic
representatives abroad. Yet the strength of Norway is undoubtedly in her alliance with Sweden:
alone, she would be but a fourth-rate power. Enough has been done to satisfy her national feeling
and secure her liberties against assault, and it is now time that this unnecessary jealousy
and mistrust of a kindred race should cease. The Swedes have all the honesty which the Norwegians
claim for themselves, more warmth and geniality of character, and less selfish sharpness and
shrewdness. Mügge tells a story of a number of Swedes who were at a dinner party in Paris,
where the health of "the King of Sweden and Norway" was proposed and drunk with great enthusiasm.
One glass was observed to be untouched. It belonged to a Norwegian, who, when called upon for
an explanation, said: "I cannot drink such a toast as this, but I will drink the health of
the King of Norway, who is also King of Sweden!"

One cannot find fault with a people for their patriotism. I have always admired that love of
Gamle Norge which shines through Norwegian history, song, and saga--but when it is manifested
in such ridiculous extremes, one doubts the genuineness of the feeling, and suspects it of
being alloyed with some degree of personal vanity. There are still evils to be eradicated,--reproaches
to be removed,--reforms to be achieved, which claim all the best energies of the best men of
the country, and positive harm is done by concealing or denying the true state of things.

CHAPTER XXIX.

DRONTHEIM AND BERGEN.

We spent another day and a half in Drontheim, before reshipping in the steamer for Bergen.
With the exception of a trip to the Lierfoss, or falls of the Nid, however, it was by no means
a satisfactory sojourn. The hotel was full, and we could only get quarters in the billiard-room,
through which other guests were continually passing and repassing. Two small boys were quite
inadequate to the service; the table d'hote was the scantiest I ever saw, and the charges at
the rate of three dollars a day. The whole of Sunday was consumed in an attempt to recover
our carrioles, which we left behind us on embarking for Hammerfest. The servants neglected
to get them on Saturday evening, as we had ordered, and in the morning the man who had the
key of the warehouse went into the country, taking it with him. The whole day was spent in
searching and waiting, and it was only by unremitting exertions that we succeeded in putting
them on board in the evening. Owing to this annoyance, I was unable to attend service in the
cathedral, or even to see the inside of it.

Our drive to the Lierfoss, in the evening, was an exquisite enjoyment. The valley of the Nid,
behind Drontheim, is one of the most carefully cultivated spots in Norway. Our road led up
the stream, overlooking rich levels of grain and hay fields, studded with large and handsome
farm-houses, while the lower slopes of the hills and the mound-like knolls scattered along
their bases, were framed to the very summit, steep as they were. The whole scene was like a
piece of landscape gardening, full of the loveliest effects, which were enhanced by the contrast
of the grey, sterile mountains by which the picture was framed. The soft, level sunshine, streaming
through the rifts of broken thunder-clouds in the west, slowly wandered over the peaceful valley,
here lighting up a red-roofed homestead, there a grove in full summer foliage, or a meadow
of so brilliant an emerald that it seemed to shine by its own lustre. As we approached the
Lierfoss, the road was barred with a great number of gates, before which waited a troop of
ragged boys, who accompanied us the whole of the way, with a pertinacity equal to that of the
little Swiss beggars.

The Nid here makes two falls about half a mile apart, the lower one being eighty, and the upper
one ninety feet in height. The water is of a dark olive-green colour, and glassy transparency,
and so deep that at the brink it makes huge curves over the masses of rock in its bed without
breaking into the faintest ripple. As you stand on a giant boulder above it, and contrast the
swift, silent rush with the thundering volume of amber-tinted spray which follows, you feel
in its full force the strange fascination of falling water--the temptation to plunge in and
join in its headlong revelry. Here, however, I must admit that the useful is not always the
beautiful. The range of smoky mills driven by a sluice from the fall had better be away. The
upper fall is divided in the centre by a mass of rock, and presents a broader and more imposing
picture, though the impetus of the water is not so great.

The coast between Drontheim and Bergen is, on the whole, much less striking than that further
north; but it has some very grand features. The outer islands are, with few exceptions, low
and barren, but the coast, deeply indented with winding fjords, towers here and there into
sublime headlands, and precipitous barriers of rock. Christiansund, where we touched the first
afternoon, is a singularly picturesque place, built on four islands, separated by channels
in the form of a cross. The bare, rounded masses of grey rock heave up on all sides behind
the houses, which are built along the water's edge; here and there a tree of superb greenness
shines against the colourless background, and the mountains of the mainland, with their tints
of pink and purple, complete the picture. The sun was burningly hot, and the pale-green water
reflected the shores in its oily gloss; but in severe storms, I was told, it is quite impossible
to cross from one island to another, and the different parts of the town sometimes remain for
days in a state of complete isolation. I rose very early next morning, to have a view of Molde
and the enchanting scenery of the Romsdals-fjord. The prosperous-looking town, with its large
square houses, its suburban cottages and gardens, on the slope of a long green hill, crowned
with woods, was wholly Swiss in its appearance, but the luminous morning vapors hovering around
the Alpine peaks in the east, entirely hid them from our view. In this direction lies the famous
Romsdal, which many travellers consider the grandest specimen of Norwegian scenery. Unfortunately
we could not have visited it without taking an entire week, and we were apprehensive lest the
fine weather, which we had now enjoyed for twenty-four days, should come to an end before we
were done with the Bergenstift. It is almost unexampled that travellers make the voyage from
Drontheim to the Varanger Fjord and back without a cloudy day. While we had perpetual daylight,
the tourists whom we left behind were drenched with continual rains.

Aalesund is another island port, smaller than Christiansund, but full as picturesque. The intense
heat and clearness of the day, the splendour of the sunshine, which turned the grassy patches
on the rocks into lustrous velvet, and the dark, dazzling blue of the sea belonged rather to
southern Italy than to Norway. As we approached Bergen, however, the sky became gradually overcast,
and the evening brought us clouds and showers. Not far from Aalesund was the castle of Rollo,
the conqueror of Normandy. All this part of the coast is Viking ground: from these fjords went
forth their piratical dragons, and hither they returned, laden with booty, to rest and carouse
in their strongholds. They were the buccaneers of the north in their time, bold, brave, with
the virtues which belong to courage and hardihood, but coarse, cruel, and brutal. The Viking
of Scandinavian song is a splendid fellow; but his original, if we may judge from his descendants,
was a stupid, hard-headed, lustful, and dirty giant, whom we should rather not have had for
a companion. Harold Haarfager may have learnt in Constantinople to wash his face, and comb
his beautiful hair, but I doubt if many of his followers imitated him. Let us hope that Ingeborg
changed her dress occasionally, and that Balder's temple was not full of fleas; that Thorsten
Vikingsson placed before his guests something better than fladbröd and rancid butter; and that
Björn and Frithiof acted as honestly towards strangers as towards each other. The Viking chiefs,
undoubtedly, must have learned the comfort of cleanliness and the delights of good living,
but if such habits were general, the nation has greatly degenerated since their time.

We stayed on deck until midnight, notwithstanding the rain, to see the grand rock of Hornelen,
a precipice 1200 feet high. The clouds lifted a little, and there was a dim, lurid light in
the sky as our steamer swept under the awful cliff. A vast, indistinct mass, reaching apparently
to the zenith, the summit crowned with a pointed tour, resembling the Cathedral of Drontheim,
and the sides scarred with deep fissures, loomed over us. Now a splintered spire disengaged
itself from the gloom, and stood defined against the sky; lighter streaks marked the spots
where portions had slid away; but all else was dark, uncertain, and sublime. Our friendly captain
had the steamer's guns discharged as we were abreast of the highest part. There were no separate
echoes, but one tremendous peal of sound, prolonged like the note of an organ-pipe, and gradually
dying away at the summit in humming vibrations.

Next morning, we were sailing in a narrow strait, between perpendicular cliffs, fluted like
basaltic pillars. It was raining dismally, but we expected nothing else in the neighbourhood
of Bergen. In this city the average number of rainy days in a year is two hundred. Bergen weather
has become a by-word throughout the north, and no traveller ventures to hope for sunshine when
he turns his face thither. "Is it still raining at Bergen?" ask the Dutch skippers when they
meet a Norwegian captain. "Yes, blast you; is it still blowing at the Texel?" is generally
the response.

We took on board four or five lepers, on their way to the hospital at Bergen. A piece of oil-cloth
had been thrown over some spars to shield them from the rain, and they sat on deck, avoided
by the other passengers, a melancholy picture of disease and shame. One was a boy of fourteen,
upon whose face wart-like excrescences were beginning to appear; while a woman, who seemed
to be his mother, was hideously swollen and disfigured. A man, crouching down with his head
between his hands, endeavoured to hide the seamed and knotted mass of protruding blue flesh,
which had once been a human face. The forms of leprosy, elephantiasis, and other kindred diseases,
which I have seen in the East, and in tropical countries, are not nearly so horrible. For these
unfortunates there was no hope. Some years, more or less, of a life which is worse than death,
was all to which they could look forward. No cure has yet been discovered for this terrible
disease. There are two hospitals in Bergen, one of which contains about five hundred patients;
while the other, which has recently been erected for the reception of cases in the earlier
stages, who may be subjected to experimental courses of treatment, has already one hundred.
This form of leprosy is supposed to be produced partly by an exclusive diet of salt fish, and
partly by want of personal cleanliness. The latter is the most probable cause, and one does
not wonder at the result, after he has had a little experience of Norwegian filth. It is the
awful curse which falls upon such beastly habits of life. I wish the Norwegians could be made
Mussulmen for awhile, for the sake of learning that cleanliness is not only next to godliness,
but a necessary part of it. I doubt the existence of filthy Christians, and have always believed
that St. Jerome was atrociously slandered by the Italian painters. But is there no responsibility
resting upon the clergymen of the country, who have so much influence over their flocks, and
who are themselves clean and proper persons?

Bergen is also, as I was informed, terribly scourged by venereal diseases. Certainly, I do
not remember a place, where there are so few men--tall, strong, and well-made as the people
generally are--without some visible mark of disease or deformity. A physician of the city has
recently endeavoured to cure syphilis in its secondary stage, by means of inoculation, having
first tried the experiment upon himself; and there is now a hospital where this form of treatment
is practiced upon two or three hundred patients, with the greatest success, as another physician
informed me. I intended to have visited it, as well as the hospital for lepers; but the sight
of a few cases, around the door of the latter establishment, so sickened me, that I had no
courage to undertake the task.

Let me leave these disagreeable themes, and say that Bergen is one of the most charmingly picturesque
towns in all the North. Its name, "The Mountain," denotes one of its most striking features.
It is built upon two low capes, which project from the foot of a low mountain, two thousand
feet high, while directly in its rear lies a lovely little lake, about three miles in circumference.
On the end of the northern headland stands the fortress of Berghenhuus, with the tall square
mass of Walkendorf's Tower, built upon the foundations of the former palace of King Olaf Kyrre,
the founder of the city. The narrow harbour between is crowded with fishing-vessels,--during
the season often numbering from six to eight hundred,--and beyond it the southern promontory,
quite covered with houses, rises steeply from the water. A public grove, behind the fortress,
delights the eye with its dark-green mounds of foliage; near it rise the twin towers of the
German Church, which boasts an age of nearly seven hundred years, and the suburbs on the steep
mountain-sides gradually vanish among gardens and country-villas, which are succeeded by farms
and grazing fields, lying under the topmost ridges of the bare rock. The lake in the rear is
surrounded with the country residences of the rich merchants--a succession of tasteful dwellings,
each with its garden and leafy arbours, its flowers and fountains, forming a rich frame to
the beautiful sheet of water. Avenues of fine old lindens thread this suburban paradise, and
seats, placed at the proper points, command views of which one knows not the loveliest. Everything
has an air of ancient comfort, taste, and repose. One sees yet, the footsteps of mighty Hansa,
who for three centuries reigned here supreme. The northern half of Bergen is still called the
"German Quarter," and there are very few citizens of education who do not speak the language.

With one or two exceptions, the streets are rough and narrow. There are no quaint peculiarities
in the architecture, the houses being all of wood, painted white or some light colour. At every
door stands a barrel filled with water, to be ready in case of fire. Owing to the great number
of fishing-vessels and its considerable foreign trade, Bergen is a much more lively and bustling
place than either Christiania or Drontheim. The streets are well populated, and the great square
at the head of the harbour is always thronged with a motley concourse of fishermen, traders,
and country people. Drunkenness seems to be a leading vice. I saw, at least, fifty people,
more or less intoxicated, in the course of a short walk, one afternoon. The grog shops, however,
are rigidly closed at six o'clock on Saturday evening, and remain so until Monday morning,
any violation or evasion of the law being severely punished. The same course has been adopted
here as in Sweden; the price of brandy has been doubled, by restrictions on its manufacture,
and every encouragement has been afforded to breweries. The beer of Christiania is equal in
flavour and purity to any in the world, and it is now in great demand all over Norway.

The day after our arrival the sky cleared again, and we were favoured with superb weather;
which might well be the case, as the people told me it had previously been raining every day
for a month. The gardens, groves, and lawns of velvet turf, so long moistened, now blazed out
with splendid effect in the hot August sunshine. "Is there such a green anywhere else in the
world?" asked my friend. "If anywhere, only in England--but scarcely there," I was obliged
to confess. Yet there was an acquaintance of mine in Bergen, a Hammerfest merchant, who, in
this rare climax of summer beauty, looked melancholy and dissatisfied. "I want to get back
to the north," said he, "I miss our Arctic summer. These dark nights are so disagreeable, that
I am very tired of them. There is nothing equal to our three months of daylight, and they alone
reconcile us to the winter." Who will say, after this, that anything more than the fundamental
qualities of human nature are the same in all climates? But from the same foundation you may
build either a Grecian temple or a Chinese pagoda.

The lions of Bergen are soon disposed of. After you have visited the fortress and admired the
sturdy solidity of Walkendorf's Tower, you may walk into the German church which stands open
(or did, when we were there), without a soul to prevent you from carrying off some of the queer
old carved work and pictures. The latter are hideous enough to be perfectly safe, and the church,
though exceedingly quaint and interesting, is not beautiful. Then you may visit the museum,
which contains an excellent collection of northern fish, and some very curious old furniture.
The collection of antiquities is not remarkable; but it should be remembered that the museum
has been created within the last twenty years, and is entirely the result of private taste
and enterprise. One of the most singular things I saw was a specimen (said to be the only one
in existence) of a fish called the "herring-king," about twelve feet in length by one in thickness,
and with something of the serpent in its appearance. The old Kraaken has not shown himself
for a number of years, possibly frightened away by the appearance of steamers in his native
waters. In spite of all the testimony which Capell Brooke has collected in favour of his existence,
he is fast becoming a myth.

Bergen, we found, is antiquated in more respects than one. On sending for horses, on the morning
fixed for our departure, we were coolly told that we should have to wait twenty-four hours;
but after threatening to put the law in force against the skyds-skaffer, he promised to bring
them by one o'clock in the afternoon. In this city of 30,000 inhabitants, no horses are kept
in readiness at the post-station; but are furnished by farmers somewhere at a distance. In
the matter of hotels, however, Bergen stands in the front rank of progress, rivalling Christiania
and Drontheim. The fare is not so good, and the charges are equally high. There are two little
inns, with five or six rooms each, and one boarding-house of the same size. We could only get
one small room, into which all three were packed, at a charge of a dollar and a quarter per
day; while for two wretched meals we paid a dollar and a half each. The reader may judge of
our fare from the fact that one day our soup was raspberry juice and water, and another time,
cold beer, flavoured with pepper and cinnamon. Add tough beafsteaks swimming in grease and
rancid butter, and you have the principal ingredients. For the first time in my life I found
my digestive powers unequal to the task of mastering a new national diet.

CHAPTER XXX.

A TRIP TO THE VÖRING-FOSS.

After waiting only five hours, we obtained three horses and drove away from Bergen. It was
a superb afternoon, spotlessly blue overhead, with still bluer water below, and hills of dark,
velvety verdure throbbing and sparkling in the sunshine, and the breezes from off the fjord.
We sped past the long line of suburban gardens, through the linden avenues, which, somehow
or other, suggested to me the days of the Hanseatic League, past Tivoli, the Hoboken of Bergen,
and on the summit of the hill beyond stopped to take a parting look at the beautiful city.
She sat at the foot of her guardian mountain, across the lake, her white towers and red roofs
rising in sharp relief against the purple background of the islands which protect her from
the sea. In colour, form, and atmospheric effect, the picture was perfect. Norway is particularly
fortunate in the position and surroundings of her three chief cities. Bergen bears away the
palm, truly, but either of them has few rivals in Europe.

Our road led at first over well-cultivated hills dotted with comfortable farmhouses--a rolling,
broken country enclosed by rugged and sterile groups of hills. After some miles we turned northward
into a narrow valley running parallel to the coast line. The afternoon sun, shining over the
shoulder of the mountain-ridge on our left, illuminated with dazzling effect the green pastures
in the bosom of the valley, and the groves of twinkling birch and sombre fir on the opposite
slope. I have never seen purer tints in the sunshine--never a softer transparency in the shadows.
The landscape was ideal in its beauty, except the houses, whose squalor and discomfort were
real. Our first station lay off the road, on a hill. A very friendly old man promised to get
us horses as soon as possible, and his wife set before us the best fare the house afforded--milk,
oaten shingles, and bad cheese. The house was dirty, and the aspect of the family bed, which
occupied one end of the room, merely divided by boards into separate compartments for the parents,
children and servants was sufficient to banish sleep. Notwithstanding the poverty of the place,
the old woman set a good value upon her choice provender. The horses were soon forthcoming,
and the man, whose apparent kindness increased every moment, said to me, "Have I not done well?
Is it not very well that I have brought you horses so soon?" I assented cheerfully, but he
still repeated the same questions, and I was stupid enough not to discover their meaning, until
he added; "I have done everything so well, that you ought to give me something for it." The
naïve manner of this request made it seem reasonable, and I gave him something accordingly,
though a little disappointed, for I had congratulated myself on finding at last a friendly
and obliging skyds-skaffer (Postmaster) in Norway.

Towards evening we reached a little village on the shore of the Osterfjord. Here the road terminated,
and a water station of eighteen miles in length lay before us. The fjords on the western coast
of Norway are narrow, shut in by lofty and abrupt mountains, and penetrate far into the land--frequently
to the distance of a hundred miles. The general direction of the valleys is parallel to the
line of the coast, intersecting the fjords at nearly a right angle, so that they, in connection
with these watery defiles, divide the mountains into immense irregular blocks, with very precipitous
sides and a summit table-land varying from two to four thousand feet above the sea level. For
this reason there is no continuous road in all western Norway, but alternate links of land
and water--boats and post-horses. The deepest fjords reach very nearly to the spinal ridge
of the mountain region, and a land-road from Bergen to this line would be more difficult to
construct than any of the great highways across the Alps. In proportion to her population and
means, Norway has done more for roads than any country in the world. Not only her main thoroughfares,
but even her by-ways, give evidence of astonishing skill, industry, and perseverance. The Storthing
has recently appropriated a sum of $188,000 for the improvement of roads, in addition to the
repairs which the farmers are obliged to make, and which constitute almost their only tax,
as there is no assessment whatever upon landed property. There seems a singular incongruity,
however, in finding such an evidence of the highest civilisation, in connection with the semi-barbaric
condition of the people. Generally, the improvement of the means of communication in a country
is in the ratio of its social progress.

As we were obliged to wait until morning before commencing our voyage, we set about procuring
supper and lodging. Some dirty beds in a dirty upper room constituted the latter, but the former
was a doubtful affair. The landlord, who persisted in calling me "Dock," made a foraging excursion
among the houses, and, after some time, laid before us a salted and smoked leg of mutton, some
rancid butter, hard oaten bread, and pestilential cheese. I ate as a matter of duty towards
my body, but my companions were less conscientious. We deserve no credit for having risen early
the next morning, neither was there any self-denial in the fact of our being content with a
single cup of coffee. The boatmen, five in number, who had been engaged the evening before,
took our carrioles apart and stowed them in the stern, while we three disposed ourselves very
uneasily in the narrow bow. As we were about pushing off, one of the men stepped upon a stone
and shouted in a loud voice, "Come and help us, fairies!"--whereat the others laughed heartily.
The wind was against us, but I thought the men hugged the shore much more than was necessary.
I noticed the same thing afterwards, and spoke of it, but they stated that there were strong
currents in these fjords, setting towards the sea. The water, in fact, is but slightly brackish,
and the ebb and flow of the tides is hardly felt.

The scenery in the Osterfjord is superb. Mountains, 2000 feet high, inclose and twist it between
their interlocking bases. Cliffs of naked rock overhang it, and cataracts fall into it in long
zigzag chains of foam. Here and there a little embayed dell rejoices with settlement and cultivation,
and even on the wildest steeps, where it seems almost impossible for a human foot to find hold,
the people scramble at the hazard of their lives, to reap a scanty harvest of grass for the
winter. Goats pasture everywhere, and our boatmen took delight in making the ewes follow us
along the cliffs, by imitating the bleating of kids. Towards noon we left the main body of
the fjord and entered a narrow arm which lay in eternal shadow under tremendous walls of dark
rock. The light and heat of noonday were tropical in their silent intensity, painting the summits
far above with dashes of fierce colour, while their bases sank in blue gloom to meet the green
darkness of the water. Again and again the heights enclosed us, so that there was no outlet;
but they opened as if purposely to make way for us, until our keel grated the pebbly barrier
of a narrow valley, where the land road was resumed. Four miles through this gap brought us
to another branch of the same fjord, where we were obliged to have our carrioles taken to pieces
and shipped for a short voyage.

At its extremity the fjord narrowed, and still loftier mountains overhung it. Shut in by these,
like some palmy dell in the heart of the porphyry mountains of the Sahara, lay Bolstadören,
a miracle of greenness and beauty. A mantle of emerald velvet, falling in the softest slopes
and swells to the water's edge, was thrown upon the valley; the barley had been cut and bound
to long upright poles to dry, rising like golden pillars from the shaven stubble; and, to crown
all, above the landing-place stood a two-story house, with a jolly fat landlord smoking in
the shade, and half-a-dozen pleasant-looking women gossiping in-doors. "Can we get anything
to eat?" was the first question. "The gentlemen can have fresh salmon and potatoes, and red
wine if they wish it," answered the mistress. Of course we wished it; we wished for any food
clean enough to be eatable, and the promise of such fare was like the falling of manna in the
desert. The salmon, fresh from the stream, was particularly fine; the fish here is so abundant
that the landlord had caught 962, as he informed us, in the course of one season.

We had but two miles of land before another sheet of water intervened, and our carrioles were
again taken to pieces. The postillions and boatmen along this route were great scamps, frequently
asking more than the legal fare, and in one instance threatened to prevent us from going on
unless we paid it. I shall not bore the reader with accounts of our various little squabbles
on the road, all of which tended more and more to convince us, that unless the Norwegians were
a great deal more friendly, kind, and honest a few years ago than they are now, they have been
more over-praised than any people in the world. I must say, however, that they are bungling
swindlers, and could only be successful with the greenest of travellers. The moment an imposition
is resisted, and the stranger shows himself familiar with the true charges and methods of travel,
they give up the attempt; but the desire to cheat is only less annoying to one than cheating
itself. The fees for travelling by skyds are, it is true, disproportionably low, and in many
instances the obligation to furnish horses is no doubt an actual loss to the farmer. Very often
we would have willingly paid a small increase upon the legal rates if it had been asked for
as a favour; but when it was boldly demanded as a right, and backed by a falsehood, we went
not a stiver beyond the letter of the law.

Landing at Evanger, an intelligent landlord, who had four brothers in America, gave us return
horses to Vossevangen, and we enjoyed the long twilight of the warm summer evening, while driving
along the hills which overlook the valley connecting the lakes of Vossevangen and Evanger.
It was a lovely landscape, ripe with harvest, and the air full of mellow, balmy odours from
the flowers and grain. The black spire of Vossevangen church, standing dark against the dawning
moonlight, was the welcome termination of our long day's journey, and not less welcome were
our clean and comfortable quarters in the house of a merchant there. Here we left the main
road across Norway, and made an excursion to the Vöring-Foss, which lies beyond the Hardanger
Fjord, about fifty miles distant, in a south-eastern direction.

Vossevangen, in the splendour of a cloudless morning, was even more beautiful than as a moonlit
haven of repose. The compact little village lay half buried in trees, clustered about the massive
old church, with its black, pointed tower, and roof covered with pitched shingles, in the centre
of the valley, while the mountains around shone bald and bright through floating veils of vapour
which had risen from the lake. The people were all at work in the fields betimes, cutting and
stacking the barley. The grass-fields, cut smooth and close, and of the softest and evenest
green, seemed kept for show rather than for use. The bottom of the valley along which we drove,
was filled with an unbroken pine forest, inclosing here and there a lake,

     "Where Heaven itself, brought down to Earth,
       Seemed fairer than above;"

while the opposite mountain rose rich with harvest fields and farmhouses. There are similar
landscapes between Fribourg and Vevay, in Switzerland--finer, perhaps, except that all cultivated
scenery in Norway gains wonderfully in effect from the savage environment of the barren fjelds.
Here, cultivation is somewhat of a phenomenon, and a rich, thickly settled valley strikes one
with a certain surprise. The Norwegians have been accused of neglecting agriculture; but I
do not see that much more could be expected of them. The subjugation of virgin soil, as we
had occasion to notice, is a serious work. At the best, the grain harvests are uncertain, while
fish are almost as sure as the season; and so the surplus agricultural population either emigrates
or removes to the fishing grounds on the coast. There is, undoubtedly, a considerable quantity
of wild land which could be made arable, but the same means, applied to the improvement of
that which is at present under cultivation, would accomplish far more beneficent results.

Leaving the valley, we drove for some time through pine forests, and here, as elsewhere, had
occasion to notice the manner in which this source of wealth has been drained of late years.
The trees were very straight and beautiful, but there were none of more than middle age. All
the fine old timber had been cut away; all Norway, in fact, has been despoiled in like manner,
and the people are but just awaking to the fact, that they are killing a goose which lays golden
eggs. The government, so prudently economical that it only allows $100,000 worth of silver
to be quarried annually in the mines of Kongsberg, lest the supply should be exhausted, has,
I believe, adopted measures for the preservation of the forests; but I am not able to state
their precise character. Except in valleys remote from the rivers and fjords, one now finds
very little mature timber.

We at last came upon a little lake, in a close glen with walls 1000 feet high. Not suspecting
that we had ascended much above the sea-level, we were surprised to see the gorge all at once
open below us, revealing a dark-blue lake, far down among the mountains. We stood on the brink
of a wall, over which the stream at our side fell in a "hank" of divided cataracts. Our road
was engineered with great difficulty to the bottom of the steep, whence a gentler descent took
us to the hamlet of Vasenden, at the head of the lake. Beyond this there was no road for carrioles,
and we accordingly gave ours in charge of a bright, active and intelligent little postmaster,
twelve years old. He and his mother then rowed us across the lake to the village of Graven,
whence there was a bridle-road across the mountains to a branch of the Hardanger Fjord. They
demanded only twelve skillings (ten cents) for the row of three miles, and then posted off
to a neighbouring farmhouse to engage horses for us.

There was a neat white dwelling on the hill, which we took to be the parsonage, but which proved
to be the residence of an army captain on leave, whom we found sitting in the door, cleaning
his gun, as we approached. He courteously ushered us into the house, and made his appearance
soon afterwards in a clean shirt, followed by his wife, with wine and cakes upon a tray. I
found him to be a man of more than ordinary intelligence, and of an earnest and reflective
turn of mind, rare in men of his profession. He spoke chiefly of the passion for emigration
which now possesses the Norwegian farmers, considering it not rendered necessary by their actual
condition, but rather one of those contagions which spread through communities and nations,
overcoming alike prudence and prejudice. He deplored it as retarding the development of Norway.
Personal interest, however, is everywhere stronger than patriotism, and I see no signs of the
emigration decreasing for some years to come.

After waiting a considerable time, we obtained two horses and a strapping farmer's son for
guide. The fellow was delighted to find out where we came from, and was continually shouting
to the people in the fields: "Here these are Americans: they were born there!" whereat the
people stared, saluted, and then stared again. He shouldered our packs and marched beside the
horses with the greatest ease. "You are strong," I remarked. "Yes," he replied, "I am a strong
Normand," making his patriotism an excuse for his personal pride. We had a terribly tough pull
up the mountain, through fine woods, to the summit level of the fjeld. The view backwards,
over the lake, was enchanting, and we lingered long on the steep, loth to lose it. Turning
again, a desolate lake lay before us, heathery swells of the bleak table-land and distant peaks,
touched with snow. Once upon the broad, level summit of a Norwegian fjeld, one would never
guess what lovely valleys lie under those misty breaks which separate its immense lobes--what
gashes of life and beauty penetrate its stony heart. There are, in fact, two Norways: one above--a
series of detached, irregular masses, bleak, snowy, wind-swept and heather-grown, inhabited
by herdsmen and hunters: and one below--a ramification of narrow veins of land and water, with
fields and forests, highways and villages.

So, when we had traversed the upper land for several miles, we came to a brink overlooking
another branch of the lower land, and descended through thick woods to the farms of Ulvik,
on the Eyfjord, an arm of the Hardanger. The shores were gloriously beautiful; slopes of dazzling
turf inclosed the bright blue water, and clumps of oak, ash, and linden, in park-like groups,
studded the fields. Low red farmhouses, each with its hollow square of stables and granaries,
dotted the hill-sides, and the people, male and female, were everywhere out reaping the ripe
barley and piling it, pillar-wise, upon tall stakes. Owing to this circumstance we were obliged
to wait some time for oarsmen. There was no milk to be had, nor indeed anything to eat, notwithstanding
the signs of plenty on all sides. My friend, wandering from house to house, at last discovered
an old man, who brought him a bowl of mead in exchange for a cigar. Late in the afternoon two
men came, put us into a shabby and leaky boat, and pulled away slowly for Vik, ten miles distant.

The fjord was shut in by lofty and abrupt mountains, often interrupted by deep lateral gorges.
This is the general character of the Hardanger Fjord, a broad winding sheet of water, with
many arms, but whose extent is diminished to the eye by the grandeur of its shores. Nothing
can be wilder or more desolate than this scenery, especially at the junction of the two branches,
where all signs of habitation are shut out of sight, and one is surrounded by mighty precipices
of dark-red rock, vanishing away to the eastward in a gloomy defile. It was three hours and
a half before we reached Vik, at the head of a bay on the southern side. Here, however, some
English fishermen were quartered and we made sure of a supper. The landlord, of course, received
their superfluous salmon, and they were not the men to spare a potato-field, so both were forthcoming,
and in the satisfaction of appeased hunger, we were willing to indorse the opinion of a former
English traveller in the guest's book: "This place seems to me a paradise, although very probably
it is not one." The luxury of fishing, which I never could understand, has taught the Norwegians
to regard travellers as their proper prey. Why should a man, they think, pay 50l. for the privilege
of catching fish, which he gives away as soon as caught, unless he don't know how else to get
rid of his money? Were it not that fishing in Norway includes pure air, hard fare, and healthy
exercise, I should agree with somebody's definition of angling, "a rod with a fly at one end
and a fool at the other;" but it is all that, and besides furnished us with a good meal more
than once; wherefore I respect it.

We were now but eight miles from the Vöring-Foss, and set out betimes the next morning, taking
with us a bottle of red wine, some dry bread, and Peder Halstensen as guide. I mention Peder
particularly, because he is the only jolly, lively, wide-awake, open-hearted Norwegian I have
ever seen. As rollicking as a Neapolitan, as chatty as an Andalusian, and as frank as a Tyrolese,
he formed a remarkable contrast to the men with whom we had hitherto come in contact. He had
long black hair, wicked black eyes, and a mouth which laughed even when his face was at rest.
Add a capital tenor voice, a lithe, active frame, and something irresistibly odd and droll
in his motions, and you have his principal points. We walked across the birch-wooded isthmus
behind Vik to the Eyfjordsvand, a lake about three miles long, which completely cuts off the
further valley, the mountains on either side falling to it in sheer precipices 1000 feet high.

We embarked in a crazy, leaky boat, Peder pulling vigorously and singing. "Frie dig ved lifvet"
("Life let us cherish"), with all the contentment on his face which is expressed in Mozart's
immortal melody. "Peder," said I, "do you know the national song of Norway?" "I should think
so," was his answer, stopping short in the midst of a wild fjeld-song, clearing his throat,
and singing with a fervour and enthusiasm which rang wide over the lonely lake:--

     "Minstrel, awaken the harp from its slumbers,
       Strike for old Norway, the land of the free!
     High and heroic, in soul-stirring numbers,
       Clime of our fathers, we strike it for thee!
     Old recollections awake our affections--
       Hallow the name of the land of our birth;
     Each heart beats its loudest, each cheek glows its proudest,
       For Norway the ancient, the throne of the earth!"[D]

"Dost thou know," said he, becoming more familiar in his address, "that a lawyer (by the name
of Bjerregaard) wrote this song, and the Storthing at Christiania gave him a hundred specie
dollars for it. That was not too much, was it?" "No," said I, "five hundred dollars would have
been little enough for such a song." "Yes, yes, that it would," was his earnest assent; and
as I happened at that moment to ask whether we could see the peaks of the Halling Jökeln, he
commenced a soeter-song of life on the lofty fjeld--a song of snow, and free winds, and blue
sky. By this time we had reached the other end of the lake, where, in the midst of a little
valley of rich alluvial soil, covered with patches of barley and potatoes, stood the hamlet
of Sæbö. Here Peder procured a horse for my friend, and we entered the mouth of a sublime gorge
which opened to the eastward--a mere split in the mighty ramparts of the Hardanger-Fjeld. Peder
was continually shouting to the people in the fields: "Look here! These are Americans, these
two, and the other one is a German! This one talks Norsk, and the others don't."

We ascended the defile by a rough footpath, at first through alder thickets, but afterwards
over immense masses of rocky ruin, which had tumbled from the crags far above, and almost blocked
up the valley. For silence, desolation, and awful grandeur, this defile equals any of the Alpine
passes. In the spring, when the rocks, split by wedges of ice, disengage themselves from the
summit, and thunder down upon the piled wrecks of ages, it must be terribly sublime. A bridge,
consisting of two logs spanned across abutments of loose stones, and vibrating strongly under
our tread, took us over the torrent. Our road, for some distance was now a mere staircase,
scrambling up, down, under, over, and between the chaos of sundered rocks. A little further,
and the defile shut in altogether, forming a cul de sac of apparently perpendicular walls,
from 2000 to 3000 feet high. "How are we to get out of this?" I asked Peder. "Yonder," said
he, pointing to the inaccessible summit in front. "But where does the stream come from?" "That
you will soon see." Lo! all at once a clean split from top to bottom disclosed itself in the
wall on our left, and in passing its mouth we had a glimpse up the monstrous chasm, whose dark-blue
sides, falling sheer 3000 feet, vanished at the bottom in eternal gloom and spray.

Crossing the stream again, we commenced ascending over the débris of stony avalanches, the
path becoming steeper and steeper, until the far-off summit almost hung over our heads. It
was now a zigzag ladder, roughly thrown together, but very firm. The red mare which my friend
rode climbed it like a cat, never hesitating, even at an angle of 50°, and never making a false
step. The performance of this noble animal was almost incredible. I should never have believed
a horse capable of such gymnastics, had I not seen it with my own eyes, had I not mounted her
myself at the most difficult points, in order to test her powers. You, who have climbed the
Mayenwand, in going from the glacier of the Rhone to the Grimsel, imagine a slant higher, steeper,
and composed of loose rocks, and you will have an exact picture of our ascent. We climbed well;
and yet it took us just an hour and a half to reach the summit.

We were now on the great plateau of the Hardanger Fjeld, 2500 feet above the sea. A wild region
lay before us--great swells, covered with heather, sweeping into the distance and given up
to solitude and silence. A few isolated peaks, streaked with snow, rose from this upper level;
and a deep break on our left revealed the top of the chasm through which the torrent made its
way. At its extremity, a mile or more distant, rose a light cloud of vapour, seeming close
at hand in the thin mountain air. The thick, spongy soil, not more than two feet deep, rests
on a solid bed of rock,--the entire Hardanger Fjeld, in fact, is but a single rock,--and is
therefore always swampy. Whortleberries were abundant, as well as the multeberry (Rubus chamoemorus),
which I have found growing in Newfoundland; and Peder, running off on the hunt of them, was
continually leading us astray. But at last, we approached the wreath of whirling spray, and
heard the hollow roar of the Vöring-Foss. The great chasm yawned before us; another step, and
we stood on the brink. I seized the branch of a tough pine sapling as a support and leaned
over. My head did not swim; the height was too great for that, the impression too grand and
wonderful. The shelf of rock on which I stood projected far out over a gulf 1200 feet deep,
whose opposite side rose in one great escarpment from the bottom to a height of 800 feet above
my head. On this black wall, wet with eternal spray, was painted a splendid rainbow, forming
two thirds of a circle before it melted into the gloom below. A little stream fell in one long
thread of silver from the very summit, like a plumb-line dropped to measure the 2000 feet.
On my right hand the river, coming down from the level of the fjeld in a torn, twisted, and
boiling mass, reached the brink of the gulf at a point about 400 feet below me, whence it fell
in a single sheet to the bottom, a depth of between 800 and 900 feet.

Could one view it from below, this fall would present one of the grandest spectacles in the
world. In height, volume of water, and sublime surroundings it has no equal. The spectator,
however, looks down upon it from a great height above its brink, whence it is so foreshortened
that he can only guess its majesty and beauty. By lying upon your belly and thrusting your
head out beyond the roots of the pines, you can safely peer into the dread abyss, and watch,
through the vortex of whirling spray in its tortured womb, the starry coruscations which radiate
from the bottom of the fall, like rockets of water incessantly exploding. But this view, sublime
as it is, only whets your desire to stand below, and see the river, with its sprayey crest
shining against the sky, make but one leap from heaven to hell. Some persons have succeeded,
by entering the chasm at its mouth in the valley below, in getting far enough to see a portion
of the fall, the remainder being concealed by a projecting rock; and the time will come, no
doubt, when somebody will have energy enough to carry a path to its very foot. I envy the travellers
who will then visit the Vöring-Foss.

A short distance above the fall there are a few cabins inhabited by soeters, or herdsmen, whither
we repaired to procure some fresh milk. The house was rude and dirty; but the people received
us in a friendly manner. The powerful housewife laid aside her hay-rake, and brought us milk
which was actually sweet (a rare thing in Norway,) dirty, but not rancid butter, and tolerable
cheese. When my friend asked for water, she dipped a pailful from a neighbouring stream, thick
with decayed moss and vegetable mould, and handed it to him. He was nice enough to pick out
a rotten root before drinking, which one of the children snatched up from the floor and ate.
Yet these people did not appear to be in want; they were healthy, cheerful, and contented;
and their filthy manner of living was the result of sheer indolence and slovenliness. There
was nothing to prevent them from being neat and comfortable, even with their scanty means;
but the good gifts of God are always spoiled and wasted in dirty hands.

When we opened our bottle of wine, an exquisite aroma diffused itself through the room--a mingled
smell of vine blossoms and ripe grapes. How could the coarse vintage sent to the North, watered
and chemically doctored as it is, produce such a miracle? We tasted--superb old Chateau Latour,
from the sunniest hill of Bordeaux! By whatever accident it had wandered thither, it did not
fall into unappreciative hands. Even Brita Halstendsdatter Höl, the strong housewife, smacked
her lips over the glass which she drank after sitting to me for her portrait.

When the sketch was completed, we filled the empty bottle with milk and set out on our return.

FOOTNOTES:

[D] Latham's translation.

XXXI.

SKETCHES FROM THE BERGENSTIFT.

Our return from the Vöring-Foss to the hamlet of Sæbö was accomplished without accident or
particular incident. As we were crossing the Eyfjordsvand, the stillness of the savage glen,
yet more profound in the dusk of evening, was broken by the sudden thunder of a slide in some
valley to the eastward. Peder stopped in the midst of "Frie dig ved lifvet" and listened. "Ho!"
said he, "the spring is the time when the rocks come down, but that sounds like a big fellow,
too." Peder was not so lively on the way back, not because he was fatigued, for in showing
us how they danced on the fjeld, he flung himself into the air in a marvellous manner, and
turned over twice before coming down, but partly because he had broken our bottle of milk,
and partly because there was something on his mind. I waited patiently, knowing that it would
come out at last, as indeed it did. "You see," said he, hesitatingly, "some travellers give
a drink-money to the guide. It isn't an obligation, you know; but then some give it. Now, if
you should choose to give me anything, don't pay it to the landlord for me, because then I
won't get it. You are not bound to do so you know but some travellers do it, and I don't know
but you might also. Now, if you should, give it directly to me, and then I will have it." When
we reached Vik, we called Peder aside and gave him three marks. "Oh, you must pay your bill
to the landlord," said he. "But that is your drink-money," I explained. "That?" he exclaimed;
"it is not possible! Frie dig ved lifvet," &c., and so he sang, cut a pigeon-wing or two, and
proceeded to knot and double knot the money in a corner of his pocket-handkerchief.

"Come and take a swim!" said Peder, reappearing. "I can swim ever since I fell into the water.
I tumbled off the pier, you must know, and down I went. Everything became black before my eyes;
and I thought to myself, 'Peder, this is the end of you.' But I kicked and splashed nevertheless,
until my eyes opened again, wide enough to see where a rope was. Well, after I found I could
fall into the water without drowning, I was not afraid to swim." In fact, Peder now swam very
well, and floundered about with great satisfaction in the ice cold water. A single plunge was
all I could endure. After supper the landlady came in to talk to me about America. She had
a son in California, and a daughter in Wisconsin, and showed me their daguerreotypes and some
bits of gold with great pride. She was a stout, kindly, motherly body, and paid especial attention
to our wants on finding where we came from. Indeed we were treated in the most friendly manner
by these good people, and had no reason to complain of our reckoning on leaving. This experience
confirms me in the belief that honesty and simplicity may still be characteristics of the Norwegians
in the more remote parts of the country.

We bade a cordial farewell to Vik next morning, and set off on our return, in splendid sunshine.
Peder was in the boat, rejoiced to be with us again; and we had no sooner gotten under way,
than he began singing, "Frie dig ved lifvet." It was an intensely hot day, and the shores of
Ulvik were perfectly dazzling. The turf had a silken gloss; the trees stood darkly and richly
green, and the water was purest sapphire. "It is a beautiful bay, is it not?" said the farmer
who furnished us with horses, after we had left the boat and were slowly climbing the fjeld.
I thought I had never seen a finer; but when heaven and earth are in entire harmony, when form,
colour and atmosphere accord like some rich swell of music, whatever one sees is perfect. Hence
I shall not say how beautiful the bay of Ulvik was to me, since under other aspects the description
would not be true.

The farmer's little daughter, however, who came along to take back one of the horses, would
have been a pleasant apparition at any time and in any season. She wore her Sunday dress, consisting
of a scarlet boddice over a white chemise, green petticoat, and white apron, while her shining
flaxen hair was plaited into one long braid with narrow strips of crimson and yellow cloth
and then twisted like a garland around her head. She was not more than twelve or thirteen years
old, but tall, straight as a young pine, and beautifully formed, with the promise of early
maidenhood in the gentle swell of her bosom. Her complexion was lovely--pink, brightened with
sunburnt gold,--and her eyes like the blossoms of the forget-me-not, in hue. In watching her
firm yet graceful tread, as she easily kept pace with the horse, I could not realise that in
a few more years she would probably be no more graceful and beautiful than the women at work
in the fields--coarse, clumsy shapes, with frowzy hair, leathery faces, and enormous hanging
breasts.

In the Bergenstift, however, one sometimes sees a pretty face; and the natural grace of the
form is not always lost. About Vossevangen, for instance, the farmers' daughters are often
quite handsome; but beauty, either male or female, is in Norway the rarest apparition. The
grown-up women, especially after marriage, are in general remarkably plain. Except among some
of the native tribes of Africa, I have nowhere seen such overgrown, loose, pendant breasts
as among them. This is not the case in Sweden, where, if there are few beauties, there are
at least a great many passable faces. There are marked differences in the blood of the two
nations; and the greater variety of feature and complexion in Norway seems to indicate a less
complete fusion of the original stocks.

We were rowed across the Graven Lake by an old farmer, who wore the costume of the last century,--a
red coat, à la Frederic the Great, long waistcoat, and white knee-breeches. He demanded double
the lawful fare, which, indeed, was shamefully small; and we paid him without demur. At Vasenden
we found our carrioles and harness in good condition, nothing having been abstracted except
a ball of twine. Horses were in waiting, apparently belonging to some well-to-do farmer; for
the boys were well dressed, and took especial care of them. We reached the merchant's comfortable
residence at Vossevangen before sunset, and made amends on his sumptuous fare for the privations
of the past three days.

We now resumed the main road between Christiania and Bergen. The same cloudless days continued
to dawn upon us. For one summer, Norway had changed climates with Spain. Our oil-cloths were
burnt up and cracked by the heat, our clothes covered with dust, and our faces became as brown
as those of Bedouins. For a week we had not a cloud in the sky; the superbly clear days belied
the old saying of "weather-breeders."

Our road, on leaving Vossevangen, led through pine-forests, following the course of a stream
up a wild valley, enclosed by lofty mountains. Some lovely cataracts fell from the steep on
our left; but this is the land of cataracts and there is many a one, not even distinguished
by a name, which would be renowned in Switzerland. I asked my postillion the name of the stream
beside us. "Oh," said he, "it has none; it is not big enough!" He wanted to take us all the
way through to Gudvangen, twenty-eight miles, on our paying double fare, predicting that we
would be obliged to wait three hours for fresh horses at each intermediate station. He waited
some time at Tvinde, the first station, in the hope that we would yield, but departed suddenly
in a rage on seeing that the horses were already coming. At this place, a stout young fellow,
who had evidently been asleep, came out of the house and stood in the door staring at us with
open mouth for a full hour. The postmaster sat on the step and did likewise. It was the height
of harvest-time, and the weather favourable almost to a miracle; yet most of the harvesters
lay upon their backs under the trees as we passed. The women appeared to do most of the out-door,
as well as the in-door work. They are certainly far more industrious than the men, who, judging
from what I saw of them, are downright indolent Evidences of slow, patient, plodding toil,
one sees truly; but active industry, thrift, and honest ambition, nowhere.

The scenery increased in wildness and roughness as we proceeded. The summit of Hvitnaset (White-nose)
lifted its pinnacles of grey rock over the brow of the mountains on the north, and in front,
pale, blue-grey peaks, 5000 feet high, appeared on either hand. The next station was a village
of huts on the side of a hill. Everybody was in the fields except one woman, who remained to
take charge of the station. She was a stupid creature, but had a proper sense of her duty;
for she started at full speed to order horses, and we afterwards found that she must have run
full three English miles in the space of half an hour. The emigration to America from this
part of Bergenstift has been very great, and the people exhibited much curiosity to see and
speak with us.

The scenery became at the same time more barren and more magnificent, as we approached the
last station, Stalheim, which is a miserable little village at the head of the famous Naerödal.
Our farmer-postillion wished to take us on to Gudvangen with the same horses, urging the same
reasons as the former one. It would have been better if we had accepted his proposal; but our
previous experience had made us mistrustful. The man spoke truth, however; hour after hour
passed away, and the horses came not. A few miserable people collected about us, and begged
money. I sketched the oldest, ugliest and dirtiest of them, as a specimen, but regretted it
afterwards, as his gratitude on receiving a trifle for sitting, obliged me to give him my hand.
Hereupon another old fellow, not quite so hideous, wanted to be taken also. "Lars," said a
woman to the former, "are you not ashamed to have so ugly a face as yours go to America?" "Oh,"
said he, "it does not look so ugly in the book." His delight on getting the money created some
amusement. "Indeed," he protested, "I am poor, and want it; and you need not laugh."

The last gush of sunset was brightening the tops of the savage fjeld when the horses arrived.
We had waited two hours and three quarters and I therefore wrote a complaint in the post-book
in my best Norsk. From the top of a hill beyond the village, we looked down into the Naerödal.
We stood on the brink of a tremendous wall about a thousand feet above the valley. On one side,
the stream we had been following fell in a single cascade 400 feet; on the other, a second
stream, issuing from some unseen defile, flung its several ribbons of foam from nearly an equal
height. The valley, or rather gorge, disappeared in front between mountains of sheer rock,
which rose to the height of 3000 feet. The road--a splendid specimen of engineering--was doubled
back and forth around the edge of a spur projecting from the wall on which we stood, and so
descended to the bottom. Once below, our carrioles rolled rapidly down the gorge, which was
already dusky with twilight. The stream, of the most exquisite translucent azure-green colour,
rolled between us; and the mountain crests towered so far above, that our necks ached as we
looked upwards. I have seen but one valley which in depth and sublimity can equal the Naerödal--the
pass of the Taurus, in Asia Minor, leading from Cappadocia into Cilicia. In many places the
precipices were 2000 feet in perpendicular height; and the streams of the upper fjeld, falling
from the summits, lost themselves in evanescent water-dust before they reached the bottom.
The bed of the valley was heaped with fragments of rock; which are loosed from above with every
returning spring.

It was quite dark before we reached Gudvangen, thoroughly tired and as hungry as wolves. My
postillion, on hearing me complain, pulled a piece of dry mutton out of his pocket and gave
it to me. He was very anxious to learn whether brandy and tobacco were as dear in America as
in Norway; if so, he did not wish to emigrate. A stout girl had charge of Braisted's horse;
the female postillions always fell to his lot. She complained of hard work and poor pay, and
would emigrate if she had the money. At Gudvangen we had a boat journey of thirty-five miles
before us, and therefore engaged two boats with eight oarsmen for the morrow. The people tried
hard to make us take more, but we had more than the number actually required by law, and, as
it turned out, quite as many as were necessary. Travellers generally supply themselves with
brandy for the use of their boatmen, from an idea that they will be stubborn and dilatory without
it. We did so in no single instance; yet our men were always steady and cheerful.

We shipped our carrioles and sent them off in the larger boat, delaying our own departure until
we had fortified ourselves with a good breakfast, and laid in some hard bread and pork omelette,
for the day. The Gudvangen Fjord, down which we now glided over the glassy water, is a narrow
mountain avenue of glorious scenery. The unseen plateaus of the Blaa and Graa Fjelds, on either
hand, spilled their streams over precipices from 1000 to 2000 feet in height, above whose cornices
shot the pointed summits of bare grey rock, wreathed in shifting clouds, 4000 feet above the
sea. Pine-trees feathered the less abrupt steeps, with patches of dazzling turf here and there;
and wherever a gentler slope could be found in the coves, stood cottages surrounded by potato-fields
and ripe barley stacked on poles. Not a breath of air rippled the dark water, which was a perfect
mirror to the mountains and the strip of sky between them, while broad sheets of morning sunshine,
streaming down the breaks in the line of precipices, interrupted with patches of fiery colour
the deep, rich, transparent gloom of the shadows. It was an enchanted voyage until we reached
the mouth of the Aurlands Fjord, divided from that of Gudvangen by a single rocky buttress
1000 feet high. Beyond this point the watery channel is much broader, and the shores diminish
in grandeur as they approach the Sogne Fjord, of which this is but a lateral branch.

I was a little disappointed in the scenery of Sogne Fjord, The mountains which enclose it are
masses of sterile rock, neither lofty nor bold enough in their forms to make impression, after
the unrivalled scenery through which we had passed. The point of Vangnæs, a short distance
to the westward, is the "Framnæs" of Frithiof's Saga, and I therefore looked towards it with
some interest, for the sake of that hero and his northern lily, Ingeborg. There are many bauta-stones
still standing on the shore, but one who is familiar with Tegner's poem must not expect to
find his descriptions verified, either in scenery or tradition. On turning eastward, around
the point of Fronningen, we were surprised by the sudden appearance of two handsome houses,
with orchards and gardens, on the sunny side of the bank. The vegetation, protected in some
degree from the sea-winds, was wonderfully rich and luxuriant. There were now occasional pine-woods
on the southern shore, but the general aspect of this fjord is bleak and desolate. In the heat
and breathless silence of noonday, the water was like solid crystal. A faint line, as if drawn
with a pencil along the bases of the opposite mountains, divided them from the equally perfect
and palpable mountains inverted below them. In the shadows near us, it was quite impossible
to detect the boundary between the substance and its counterpart. In the afternoon we passed
the mouth of the northern arms of the fjord, which strike into the heart of the wildest and
grandest region of Norway; the valley of Justedal, with its tremendous glaciers, the snowy
teeth of the Hurunger, and the crowning peaks of the Skagtolstind. Our course lay down the
other arm, to Lærdalsören, at the head of the fjord. By five o'clock it came in sight, at the
mouth of a valley opening through the barren flanks on the Fille Fjeld. We landed, after a
voyage of ten hours, and found welcome signs of civilisation in a neat but exorbitant inn.

Our boatmen, with the exception of stopping half an hour for breakfast, had pulled steadily
the whole time. We had no cause to be dissatisfied with them, while they were delighted with
the moderate gratuity we gave them. They were tough, well-made fellows, possessing a considerable
amount of endurance, but less actual strength than one would suspect. Braisted, who occasionally
tried his hand at an oar, could pull them around with the greatest ease. English travellers
whom I have met inform me that in almost every trial they find themselves stronger than the
Norwegians. This is probably to be accounted for by their insufficient nourishment. Sour milk
and oaten bread never yet fed an athlete. The proportions of their bodies would admit of fine
muscular development; and if they cannot do what their Viking ancestors once did, it is because
they no longer live upon the spoils of other lands, as they.

CHAPTER XXXII.

HALLINGDAL--THE COUNTRY-PEOPLE OF NORWAY.

There are two roads from Lærdalsören to Christiania, the eastern one passing through the districts
of Valders and Hadeland, by way of the Little Miösen Lake and the Randsfjord, while the western,
after crossing the Fille Fjeld, descends the long Hallingdal to Ringerike. In point of scenery
there is little difference between them; but as we intended visiting the province of Tellemark,
in Southern Norway, we chose the latter. The valley of the Fille Fjeld, which we entered on
leaving Lærdalsören, is enclosed by wild, barren mountains, more isolated and irregular in
their forms than the Hardanger and Dovre Fjelds. There were occasional precipices and dancing
waterfalls, but in general the same tameness and monotony we had found on the Sogne Fjord.
Down the bed of the valley flowed a large rapid stream, clear as crystal, and of a beautiful
beryl tint. The cultivation was scanty; and the potato fields, utterly ruined by disease, tainted
the air with sickening effluvia. The occasional forests on the hill-sides were of fir and birch,
while poplar, ash, and linden grew in the valley. The only fruit-trees I saw were some sour
red cherries.

But in the splendour of the day, this unfriendly valley shone like a dell of the Apennines.
Not a cloud disturbed the serenity of the sky; the brown grass and yellow moss on the mountains
were painted with sunny gold, and the gloss and sparkle of the foliage equalled that of the
Italian ilex and laurel. On the second stage a new and superb road carried us through the rugged
defile of Saltenaaset. This pass is evidently the effect of some mighty avalanche thousands
of ages ago. The valley is blocked up by tremendous masses of rock, hurled one upon the other
in the wildest confusion, while the shattered peaks from which they fell still tower far above.
Threading this chaos in the shadow of the rocks, we looked across the glen upon a braided chain
of foam, twisted together at the end into a long white cascade, which dropped into the gulf
below. In another place, a rainbow meteor suddenly flashed across the face of a dark crag,
betraying the dusty spray of a fall, else invisible.

On the third stage the road, after mounting a difficult steep, descended into the valley of
Borgund, in which stands most probably the most ancient church in Norway. It is a singular,
fantastic structure, bristling with spiky spires and covered with a scale armour of black pitched
shingles. It is certainly of no more recent date than the twelfth century, and possibly of
the close of the eleventh. The architecture shows the Byzantine style in the rounded choir
and the arched galleries along the sides, the Gothic in the windows and pointed gables, and
the horned ornaments on the roof suggest the pagan temples of the ante-Christian period. A
more grotesque affair could hardly be found in Christendom; it could only be matched among
the monstrosities of Chinese art. With the exception of the church of Hitterdal, in Tellemark,
a building of similar date, this is the best preserved of the few antiquities of Norway. The
entire absence of feudal castles is a thing to be noticed. Serfdom never existed here, and
one result of this circumstance, perhaps, is the ease with which institutions of a purely republican
stamp have been introduced.

Our road still proceeded up the bottom of a rough barren valley, crossing stony headlands on
either side. At the station of Haug our course turned to the south-east, climbing a slope leading
to the plateau of the Fille Fjeld--a severe pull for our horses in the intense heat. The birch
woods gradually diminished in size until they ceased altogether, and the naked plain stretched
before us. In this upper land the air was delicious and inspiring. We were more than 3000 feet
above the sea, but the summits to the right and left, with their soft gleams of pale gray,
lilac and purple hues in the sunshine, and pure blue in shadow, rose to the height of 6000.
The heat of the previous ten days had stripped them bare of snow, and the landscape was drear
and monotonous. The summits of the Norwegian Fjelds have only the charm of wildness and bleakness.
I doubt whether any mountains of equal height exhibit less grandeur in their upper regions.
The most imposing features of Norwegian scenery are its deep valleys, its tremendous gorges
with their cataracts, flung like banners from steeps which seem to lean against the very sky,
and, most of all, its winding, labyrinthine fjords--valleys of the sea, in which the phenomena
of the valleys of the land are repeated. I found no scenery in the Bergenstift of so original
and impressive a character as that of the Lofoden Isles.

The day was Sunday, and we, of course, expect to see some evidence of it in the appearance
of the people. Yet, during the whole day, we found but one clean person--the hostess of an
inn on the summit of Fille Fjeld, where we stopped to bait our horses. She was a young fresh-faced
woman, in the first year of her wifehood, and her snowy chemise and tidy petticoat made her
shine like a star among the dirty and frowzy creatures in the kitchen. I should not forget
a boy, who was washing his face in a brook as we passed; but he was young, and didn't know
any better. Otherwise the people lounged about the houses, or sat on the rocks in the sun,
filthy, and something else, to judge from certain signs. At Haug, forgetting that it was a
fast station, where there is no tilsigelse (money for ordering horses) to be paid, I handed
the usual sum to the landlady, saying: "This is for tilsigelse." "It is quite right," said
she, pocketing the coin.

Skirting an azure lake, we crossed the highest part of the pass, nearly four thousand feet
above the sea, and descended a naked valley to the inn of Bjöberg. The landlord received us
very cordially; and as the inn promised tolerable accommodation, he easily persuaded us to
stop there for the night. His wife wore a frightful costume, which we afterwards found to prevail
throughout all Hemsedal and Hallingdal. It consisted simply of a band across the shoulders,
above the breasts, passing around the arms and over the back of the neck, with an immense baggy,
dangling skirt hanging therefrom to the ancles. Whether she was fat or lean, straight or crooked,
symmetrical or deformed, it was impossible to discern, except when the wind blew. The only
thing to be said in favour of such a costume is, that it does not impede the development and
expansion of the body in any direction. Hence I would strongly recommend its adoption to the
advocates of reform in feminine dress at home. There is certainly none of that weight upon
the hips, of which they complain in the fashionable costume. It is far more baggy, loose, and
hideous than the Bloomer, with the additional advantage of making all ages and styles of beauty
equally repulsive, while on the score of health and convenience, there is still less to be
said against it. Do not stop at half-way measures, oh, fair reformers!

It seems incredible that, in a pastoral country like Norway, it should be almost impossible
to procure sweet milk and good butter. The cattle are of good quality, there is no better grass
in the world; and the only explanation of the fact is to be found in the general want of cleanliness,
especially among the inhabitants of the mountain districts, which are devoted to pasturage
alone. Knowing this, one wonders the less to see no measures taken for a supply of water in
the richer grain-growing valleys, where it is so easily procurable. At Bjöberg, for instance,
there was a stream of delicious water flowing down the hill, close beside the inn, and four
bored pine-trunks would have brought it to the very door; but, instead of that, the landlady
whirled off to the stream in her revolving dress, to wash the dishes, or to bring us half a
pint to wash ourselves. We found water much more abundant the previous winter in Swedish Lapland.

Leaving Bjöberg betimes, we drove rapidly down Hemsedal, enjoying the pure delicious airs of
the upper fjeld. The scenery was bleak and grey; and even the soft pencil of the morning sun
failed to impart any charm to it, except the nameless fascination of utter solitude and silence.
The valley descends so gradually that we had driven two Norsk miles before the fir-forests
in its bed began to creep up the mountain-sides. During the second stage we passed the remarkable
peak of Saaten, on the opposite side of the valley--the end or cape of a long projecting ridge,
terminating in a scarped cliff, from the very summit of which fell a cascade from three to
four hundred feet in height. Where the water came from, it was impossible to guess, unless
there were a large deposit of snow in the rear; for the mountains fell away behind Saaten,
and the jagged, cleft headland rose alone above the valley. It was a strange and fantastic
feature of the landscape, and, to me, a new form in the repertory of mountain aspects.

We now drove, through fir-woods balmy with warm resinous odours, to Ekre, where we had ordered
breakfast by förbud. The morning air had given us a healthy appetite; but our spirits sank
when the only person at the station, a stupid girl of twenty, dressed in the same bulging,
hideous sack, informed us that nothing was to be had. After some persuasion she promised us
coffee, cheese, and bread, which came in due time; but with the best will we found it impossible
to eat anything. The butter was rather black than yellow, the cheese as detestable to the taste
as to the smell, the bread made apparently of saw-dust, with a slight mixture of oat-bran,
and the coffee muddy dregs, with some sour cream in a cup, and sugar-candy which appeared to
have been sucked and then dropped in the ashes. The original colour of the girl's hands was
barely to be distinguished through their coating of dirt; and all of us, tough old travellers
as we were, sickened at the sight of her. I verily believe that the poorer classes of the Norwegians
are the filthiest people in Europe. They are even worse than the Lapps, for their habits of
life allow them to be clean.

After passing Ekre, our view opened down the valley, over a wild stretch of wooded hills, to
the blue mountain folds of the Hallingdal, which crosses the Hemsedal almost at right angles,
and receives its tributary waters. The forms of the mountains are here more gradual; and those
grand sweeps and breaks which constitute the peculiar charms of the scenery of the Bergenstift
are met with no longer. We had a hot ride to the next station, where we were obliged to wait
nearly an hour in the kitchen, our förbud not having been forwarded from the former station
as soon as the law allowed us to expect. A strapping boy of eighteen acted as station master.
His trowsers reached considerably above his shoulder blades, leaving barely room for a waistcoat,
six inches long, to be buttoned over his collar bone. The characteristic costumes of Norway
are more quaint and picturesque in the published illustrations than in the reality, particularly
those of Hemsedal. My postillion to this station was a communicative fellow, and gave me some
information about the value of labour. A harvest-hand gets from one mark (twenty-one cents)
to one and a half daily, with food, or two marks without. Most work is paid by the job; a strong
lumber-man may make two and a half marks when the days are long, at six skillings (five cents)
a tree--a plowman two marks. In the winter the usual wages of labourers are two marks a week,
with board. Shoemakers, tailors, and other mechanics average about the same daily. When one
considers the scarcity of good food, and the high price of all luxuries, especially tobacco
and brandy, it does not seem strange that the emigration fever should be so prevalent. The
Norwegians have two traits in common with a large class of Americans--rampant patriotism and
love of gain; but they cannot so easily satisfy the latter without sacrificing the former.

From the village of Göl, with its dark pretty church, we descended a steep of many hundred
feet, into Hallingdal, whose broad stream flashed blue in the sunshine far below us. The mountains
were now wooded to their very summits; and over the less abrupt slopes, ripe oats and barley-fields
made yellow spots of harvest among the dark forests. By this time we were out of smoking material,
and stopped at the house of a landhandlare, or country merchant, to procure a supply. A riotous
sound came from the door as we approached. Six or eight men, all more or less drunk, and one
woman, were inside, singing, jumping, and howling like a pack of Bedlamites. We bought the
whole stock of tobacco, consisting of two cigars, and hastened out of the den. The last station
of ten miles was down the beautiful Hallingdal, through a country which seemed rich by contrast
with Hemsedal and the barren fjeld. Our stopping-place was the village of Næs, which we reached
in a famished condition, having eaten nothing all day. There were two landhandlare in the place,
with one of whom we lodged. Here we found a few signs of Christianity, such as gardens and
decent dresses; but both of the merchant's shops swarmed with rum-drinkers.

I had written, and sent off from Bjöberg, förbud tickets for every station as far as Kongsberg.
By the legal regulations, the skyds-skaffer is obliged to send forward such tickets as soon
as received, the traveller paying the cost thereof on his arrival. Notwithstanding we had given
our förbud twelve hours' start, and had punctually paid the expense at every station, we overtook
it at Næs. The postmaster came to know whether we would have it sent on by special express,
or wait until some traveller bound the same way would take it for us. I ordered it to be sent
immediately, astounded at such a question, until, making the acquaintance of a Scotchman and
his wife, who had arrived in advance of us, the mystery was solved. They had spent the night
at the first station beyond Bjöberg, where our förbud tickets were given to them, with the
request that they would deliver them. They had punctually done so as far as Næs, where the
people had endeavoured to prevent them from stopping for the night, insisting that they were
bound to go on and carry the förbud. The cool impudence of this transaction reached the sublime.
At every station that day, pay had been taken for service unperformed, and it was more than
once demanded twice over.

We trusted the repeated assurance of the postmaster at Næs, that our tickets had been forwarded
at once, and paid him accordingly. But at the first station next morning we found that he had
not done so; and this interlinked chain of swindling lasted the whole day. We were obliged
to wait an hour or two at every post, to pay for messengers who probably never went, and then
to resist a demand for payment at the other end of the station. What redress was there? We
might indeed have written a complaint in imperfect Norsk, which would be read by an inspector
a month afterwards; or perhaps it would be crossed out as soon as we left, as we saw done in
several cases. Unless a traveller is very well versed in the language and in the laws relating
to the skyds system, he has no defence against imposition, and even in such a case, he can
only obtain redress through delay. The system can only work equitably when the people are honest;
and perhaps they were so when it was first adopted.

Here I must tell an unpleasant truth. There must have been some foundation in the beginning
for the wide reputation which the Norwegians have for honest simplicity of character; but the
accounts given by former travellers are undeserved praise if applied at present. The people
are trading on fictitious capital. "Should I have a written contract?" I asked of a landlord,
in relation to a man with whom I was making a bargain. "Oh, no," said he, "everybody is honest
in Norway;" and the same man tried his best to cheat me. Said Braisted, "I once heard an old
sailor say,--'when a man has a reputation for honesty, watch him!'"--and there is some knowledge
of human nature in the remark. Norway was a fresh field when Laing went thither opportunities
for imposition were so rare, that the faculty had not been developed; he found the people honest,
and later travellers have been content with echoing his opinion. "When I first came to the
country," said an Irish gentleman who for ten years past has spent his summers there, "I was
advised, as I did not understand the currency, to offer a handful in payment, and let the people
take what was due to them." "Would you do it now?" I asked. "No, indeed," said he, "and the
man who then advised me, a Norwegian merchant, now says he would not do it either." An English
salmon-fisher told me very much the same thing. "I believe they are honest in their intercourse
with each other," said he; "but they do not scruple to take advantage of travellers whenever
they can." For my own part, I must say that in no country of Europe, except Italy, have I experienced
so many attempts at imposition. Another Englishman, who has been farming in Norway for several
years, and who employs about forty labourers, has been obliged to procure Swedes, on account
of the peculations of native hands. I came to Norway with the popular impression concerning
the people, and would not confess myself so disagreeably undeceived, could I suppose that my
own experiences were exceptional. I found, however, that they tallied with those of other travellers;
and the conclusion is too flagrant to be concealed.

As a general rule, I have found the people honest in proportion as they are stupid. They are
quick-witted whenever the spirit of gain is aroused; and the ease with which they pick up little
arts of acquisitiveness does not suggest an integrity proof against temptation. It is but a
negative virtue, rather than that stable quality rooted in the very core of a man's nature.
I may, perhaps, judge a little harshly; but when one finds the love of gain so strongly developed,
so keen and grasping, in combination with the four capital vices of the Norwegians--indolence,
filth, drunkenness, and licentiousness,--the descent to such dishonest arts as I have described
is scarcely a single step. There are, no doubt, many districts where the people are still untempted
by rich tourists and sportsmen, and retain the virtues once ascribed to the whole population:
but that there has been a general and rapid deterioration of character cannot be denied. The
statistics of morality, for instance, show that one child out of every ten is illegitimate;
and the ratio has been steadily increasing for the past fifty years. Would that the more intelligent
classes would seriously set themselves to work for the good of "Gamle Norge" instead of being
content with the poetical flourish of her name!

The following day, from Næs to Green, was a continuation of our journey down the Hallingdal.
There was little change in the scenery,--high fir-wooded mountains on either hand, the lower
slopes spotted with farms. The houses showed some slight improvement as we advanced. The people
were all at work in the fields, cutting the year's satisfactory harvest. A scorching sun blazed
in a cloudless sky; the earth was baked and dry, and suffocating clouds of dust rose from under
our horses' hoofs. Most of the women in the fields, on account of the heat, had pulled off
their body-sacks, and were working in shifts made on the same principle, which reached to the
knees. Other garments they had none. A few, recognising us as strangers, hastily threw on their
sacks or got behind a barley-stack until we had passed; the others were quite unconcerned.
One, whose garment was exceedingly short, no sooner saw us than she commenced a fjeld dance,
full of astonishing leaps and whirls to the great diversion of the other hands. "Weel done,
cutty sark!" I cried; but the quotation was thrown away upon her.

Green, on the Kröder Lake, which we did not reach until long after dark, was an oasis after
our previous experience. Such clean, refined, friendly people, such a neat table, such excellent
fare, and such delicious beds we had certainly never seen before. Blessed be decency! blessed
be humanity! was our fervent ejaculation. And when in the morning we paid an honest reckoning
and received a hearty "lycksame resa!" (a lucky journey!) at parting, we vowed that the place
should always be green in our memories. Thence to Kongsberg we had fast stations and civilised
people; the country was open, well settled, and cultivated, the scenery pleasant and picturesque,
and, except the insufferable heat and dust, we could complain of nothing.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

TELLEMARK AND THE RIUKAN FOSS.

Kongsberg, where we arrived on the 26th of August, is celebrated for its extensive silver mines,
which were first opened by Christian IV in 1624, and are now worked by the Government. They
are doubtless interesting to mineralogists; but we did not visit them. The guide-book says,
"The principal entrance to the mines is through a level nearly two English miles in length;
from this level you descend by thirty-eight perpendicular ladders, of the average length of
five fathoms each, a very fatiguing task, and then find yourself at the bottom of the shaft,
and are rewarded by the sight of the veins of native silver"--not a bit of which, after all,
are you allowed to put into your pocket. Thank you! I prefer remaining above ground, and was
content with having in my possession smelted specimens of the ore, stamped with the head of
Oscar I.

The goal of our journey was the Riukan Foss, which lies in Upper Tellemark, on the south-eastern
edge of the great plateau of the Hardanger Fjeld. This cascade disputes with the Vöring Foss
the supremacy of the thousand waterfalls of Norway. There are several ways from Kongsberg thither;
and in our ignorance of the country, we suffered ourselves to be guided by the landlord of
our hotel. Let no traveller follow our example! The road he recommended was almost impassable
for carrioles, and miserably supplied with horses, while that through Hitterdal, by which we
returned, is broad, smooth, and excellent. We left on the morning after our arrival, taking
a road which led up the valley of the Lauven for some distance, and then struck westward through
the hills to a little station called Moen. Here, as the place was rarely visited by travellers,
the people were simple, honest, and friendly. Horses could not be had in less than two hours;
and my postillion, an intelligent fellow far gone in consumption, proposed taking the same
horse to the next station, fifteen miles further. He accepted my offer of increased pay; but
another, who appeared to be the owner of the horses, refused, demanding more than double the
usual rates. "How is it?" said I, "that you were willing to bring us to Moen for one and a
half marks, and will not take us to Bolkesjö for less than five?" "It was my turn," he answered,
"to furnish post-horses. I am bound by law to bring you here at the price fixed by the law;
but now I can make my own bargain, and I want a price that will leave me some profit." This
was reasonable enough; and we finally agreed to retain two of the horses, taking the postmaster's
for a third.

The region we now traversed was almost a wilderness. There were grazing-farms in the valley,
with a few fields of oats or barley; but these soon ceased, and an interminable forest enclosed
us. The road, terribly rough and stony, crossed spurs of the hills, slowly climbing to a wild
summit-level, whence we caught glimpses of lakes far below us, and the blue mountain-ranges
in the west, with the pyramidal peak of the Gousta Fjeld crowning them. Bolkesjö, which we
reached in a little more than two hours, is a small hamlet on the western slope of the mountain,
overlooking a wide tract of lake and forest. Most of the inhabitants were away in the harvest-fields;
but the skyds-shaffer, a tall powerful fellow, with a grin of ineffable stupidity on his face,
came forward as we pulled in our horses on the turfy square between the rows of magazines.
"Can we get horses at once?" "Ne-e-ey!" was his drawling answer, accompanied with a still broader
grin, as if the thing were a good joke. "How soon?" "In three hours." "But if we pay fast prices?"
He hesitated, scratched his head, and drawled, "In a liten stund" (a "short time"), which may
mean any time from five minutes to as many hours. "Can we get fresh milk?" "Ne-e-ey!" "Can
we get butter?" "Ne-e-ey!" "What can we get?" "Nothing." Fortunately we had foreseen this emergency,
and had brought a meal with us from Kongsberg.

We took possession of the kitchen, a spacious and tolerably clean apartment, with ponderous
benches against two sides of it, and two bedsteads, as huge and ugly as those of kings, built
along the third. Enormous platters of pewter, earthen and stone ware, were ranged on shelves;
while a cupboard, fantastically painted, contained the smaller crockery. There was a heavy
red and green cornice above the bed, upon which the names of the host and his wife, with the
date of their marriage, were painted in yellow letters. The worthy couple lay so high that
several steps were necessary to enable them to reach the bed, in which process their eyes encountered
words of admonition, painted upon triangular boards, introduced to strengthen the pillars at
the head and foot. One of these inscriptions ran, "This is my bed: here I take my rest in the
night, and when morning comes I get up cheerfully and go to work;" and the other, "When thou
liest down to sleep think on thy last hour, pray that God will guard thy sleep, and be ready
for thy last hour when it comes." On the bottom of the cupboard was a representation of two
individuals with chalk-white faces and inky eyes, smoking their pipes and clinking glasses.
The same fondness for decorations and inscriptions is seen in all the houses in Tellemark and
a great part of Hallingdal. Some of them are thoroughly Chinese in gaudy colour and grotesque
design.

In the course of an hour and a half we obtained three strong and spirited stallions, and continued
our journey towards the Tind-Sö. During this stage of twelve or thirteen miles, the quality
of our carrioles was tested in the most satisfactory manner. Up-hill and down, over stock and
stone, jolted on rock and wrenched in gulley, they were whirled at a smashing rate; but the
tough ash and firmly-welded iron resisted every shock. For any other than Norwegian horses
and vehicles, it would have been hazardous travelling. We were anxious to retain the same animals
for the remaining stage to Tinoset, at the foot of the lake; but the postillions refused, and
a further delay of two hours was the consequence. It was dark when the new horses came; and
ten miles of forest lay before us. We were ferried one by one across the Tind Elv, on a weak,
loose raft and got our carrioles up a frightful bank on the opposite side by miraculous luck.
Fortunately we struck the post-road from Hitterdal at this place; for it would have been impossible
to ride over such rocky by-ways as we had left behind us. A white streak was all that was visible
in the gloom of the forest. We kept in the middle of it, not knowing whether the road went
up, down, or on a level, until we had gone over it. At last, however, the forest came to an
end, and we saw Tind Lake lying still and black in the starlight. All were in bed at Tinoset;
but we went into the common sleeping-room, and stirred the people up promiscuously until we
found the housewife, who gave us the only supper the house afforded--hard oaten bread and milk.
We three then made the most of two small beds.

In the morning we took a boat, with four oarsmen, for Mael, at the mouth of the Westfjord-dal,
in which lies the Riukan Foss. There was no end to our wonderful weather. In rainy Norway the
sky had for once forgotten its clouds. One after another dawned the bright Egyptian days, followed
by nights soft, starry, and dewless. The wooded shores of the long Tind Lake were illuminated
with perfect sunshine, and its mirror of translucent beryl broke into light waves under the
northern breeze. Yet, with every advantage of sun and air, I found this lake undeserving of
its reputation for picturesque beauty. The highest peaks rise to the height of 2000 feet, but
there is nothing bold and decided in their forms, and after the splendid fjords of the western
coast the scenery appears tame and commonplace. Our boatmen pulled well, and by noon brought
us to Hakenaes, a distance of twenty-one miles. Here we stopped to engage horses to the Riukan
Foss, as there is no post-station at Mael. While the old man put off in his boat to notify
the farmers whose turn it was to supply the animals, we entered the farm-house, a substantial
two-story building. The rooms were tolerably clean and well stocked with the clumsy, heavy
furniture of the country, which is mostly made by the farmers themselves, every man being his
own carpenter, cooper, and blacksmith. There were some odd old stools, made of segments of
the trunk of a tree, the upper part hollowed out so as to receive the body, and form a support
for the back. I have no doubt that this fashion of seat is as old as the time of the Vikings.
The owner was evidently a man in tolerable circumstances, and we therefore cherished the hope
of getting a good meal; but all that the old woman, with the best will in the world, was able
to furnish, was milk, butter, oaten bread, and an egg apiece. The upper rooms were all supplied
with beds, one of which displayed remarkable portraits of the Crown Prince of Denmark and his
spouse, upon the head-board. In another room was a loom of primitive construction.

It was nearly two hours before the old farmer returned with the information that the horses
would be at Mael as soon as we; but we lay upon the bank for some time after arriving there,
watching the postillions swim them across the mouth of the Maan Elv. Leaving the boat, which
was to await our return the next day, we set off up the Westfjord-dal, towards the broad cone-like
mass of the Gousta-Fjeld, whose huge bulk, 6000 feet in height, loomed grandly over the valley.
The houses of Mael, clustered about its little church, were scattered over the slope above
the lake; and across the river, amid the fields of grass and grain, stood another village of
equal size. The bed of the valley, dotted with farms and groups of farm-houses, appeared to
be thickly populated; but as a farmer's residence rarely consists of less than six buildings--sometimes
even eight--a stranger would naturally overrate the number of inhabitants. The production of
grain, also, is much less than would be supposed from the amount of land under cultivation,
owing to the heads being so light. The valley of the Maan, apparently a rich and populous region,
is in reality rather the reverse. In relation to its beauty, however, there can be no two opinions.
Deeply sunken between the Gousta and another bold spur of the Hardanger, its golden harvest-fields
and groves of birch, ash, and pine seem doubly charming from the contrast of the savage steeps
overhanging them, at first scantily feathered with fir-trees, and scarred with the tracks of
cataracts and slides, then streaked only with patches of grey moss, and at last bleak and sublimely
bare. The deeply-channelled cone of the Gousta, with its indented summit, rose far above us,
sharp and clear in the thin ether; but its base, wrapped in forests and wet by many a waterfall--sank
into the bed of blue vapour which filled the valley.

There was no Arabian, nor even Byzantine blood in our horses; and our attendants--a stout full-grown
farmer and a boy of sixteen--easily kept pace with their slow rough trot. In order to reach
Tinoset the next day, we had determined to push on to the Riukan Foss the same evening. Our
quarters for the night were to be in the house of the old farmer, Ole Torgensen, in the village
of Däl, half-way between Mael and the cataract, which we did not reach until five o'clock,
when the sun was already resting his chin on the shoulder of the Gousta. On a turfy slope surrounded
with groves, above the pretty little church of Däl, we found Ole's gaard. There was no one
at home except the daughter, a blooming lass of twenty, whose neat dress, and graceful, friendly
deportment, after the hideous feminines of Hallingdal, in their ungirdled sacks and shifts,
so charmed us that if we had been younger, more sentimental, and less experienced in such matters,
I should not answer for the consequences. She ushered us into the guests' room, which was neatness
itself, set before us a bottle of Bavarian beer and promised to have a supper ready on our return.

There were still ten miles to the Riukan, and consequently no time to be lost. The valley contracted,
squeezing the Maan between the interlocking bases of the mountains, through which, in the course
of uncounted centuries, it had worn itself a deep groove, cut straight and clean into the heart
of the rock. The loud, perpetual roar of the vexed waters filled the glen; the only sound except
the bleating of goats clinging to the steep pastures above us. The mountain walls on either
hand were now so high and precipitous, that the bed of the valley lay wholly in shadow; and
on looking back, its further foldings were dimly seen through purple mist. Only the peak of
the Gousta, which from this point appeared an entire and perfect pyramid, 1500 feet in perpendicular
height above the mountain platform from which it rose, gleamed with a rich bronze lustre in
the setting sun. The valley was now a mere ascending gorge, along the sides of which our road
climbed. Before us extended a slanting shelf thrust out from the mountain, and affording room
for a few cottages and fields; but all else was naked rock and ragged pine. From one of the
huts we passed, a crippled, distorted form crawled out on its hands and knees to beg of us.
It was a boy of sixteen, struck with another and scarcely less frightful form of leprosy. In
this case, instead of hideous swellings and fungous excrescences, the limbs gradually dry up
and drop off piecemeal at the joints. Well may the victims of both these forms of hopeless
disease curse the hour in which they were begotten. I know of no more awful example of that
visitation of the sins of the parents upon the children, which almost always attends confirmed
drunkenness, filth, and licentiousness.

When we reached the little hamlet on the shelf of the mountain, the last rays of the sun were
playing on the summits above. We had mounted about 2000 feet since leaving the Tind Lake, and
the dusky valley yawned far beneath us, its termination invisible, as if leading downward into
a lower world. Many hundreds of feet below the edge of the wild little platform on which we
stood, thundered the Maan in a cleft, the bottom of which the sun has never beheld. Beyond
this the path was impracticable for horses; we walked, climbed, or scrambled along the side
of the dizzy steep, where, in many places, a false step would have sent us to the brink of
gulfs whose mysteries we had no desire to explore. After we had advanced nearly two miles in
this manner, ascending rapidly all the time, a hollow reverberation, and a glimpse of profounder
abysses ahead, revealed the neighbourhood of the Riukan. All at once patches of lurid gloom
appeared through the openings of the birch thicket we were threading, and we came abruptly
upon the brink of the great chasm into which the river falls.

The Riukan lay before us, a miracle of sprayey splendour, an apparition of unearthly loveliness,
set in a framework of darkness and terror befitting the jaws of hell. Before us, so high against
the sky as to shut out the colours of sunset, rose the top of the valley--the level of the
Hardanger table land, on which, a short distance further, lies the Miös-Vand, a lovely lake,
in which the Maan Elv is born. The river first comes into sight a mass of boiling foam, shooting
around the corner of a line of black cliffs which are rent for its passage, curves to the right
as it descends, and then drops in a single fall of 500 feet in a hollow caldron of bare black
rock. The water is already foam as it leaps from the summit; and the successive waves, as they
are whirled into the air, and feel the gusts which for ever revolve around the abyss, drop
into beaded fringes in falling, and go fluttering down like scarfs of the richest lace. It
is not water, but the spirit of water. The bottom is lost in a shifting snowy film, with starry
rays of foam radiating from its heart, below which, as the clouds shifts, break momentary gleams
of perfect emerald light. What fairy bowers of some Northern Undine are suggested in those
sudden flashes of silver and green! In that dim profound, which human eye can but partially
explore, in which human foot shall never be set, what secret wonders may still lie hidden!
And around this vision of perfect loveliness, rise the awful walls wet with spray which never
dries, and crossed by ledges of dazzling turf, from the gulf so far below our feet, until,
still further above our heads, they lift their irregular cornices against the sky.

I do not think I am extravagant when I say that the Riukan Foss is the most beautiful cataract
in the world. I looked upon it with that involuntary suspension of the breath and quickening
of the pulse, which is the surest recognition of beauty. The whole scene, with its breadth
and grandeur of form, and its superb gloom of colouring, enshrining this one glorious flash
of grace, and brightness, and loveliness, is indelibly impressed upon my mind. Not alone during
that half hour of fading sunset, but day after day, and night after night, the embroidered
spray wreaths of the Riukan were falling before me.

We turned away reluctantly at last, when the emerald pavement of Undine's palace was no longer
visible through the shooting meteors of silver foam. The depths of Westfjord-dal were filled
with purple darkness: only the perfect pyramid of the Gousta, lifted upon a mountain basement
more than 4000 feet in height, shone like a colossal wedge of fire against the violet sky.
By the time we reached our horses we discovered that we were hungry, and, leaving the attendants
to follow at their leisure, we urged the tired animals down the rocky road. The smell of fresh-cut
grain and sweet mountain hay filled the cool evening air; darkness crept under the birches
and pines, and we no longer met the home-going harvesters. Between nine and ten our horses
took the way to a gaard standing a little off the road; but it did not appear to be Ole Torgensen's,
so we kept on. In the darkness, however, we began to doubt our memory, and finally turned back
again. This time there could be no mistake: it was not Ole Torgensen's. I knocked at various
doors, and hallooed loudly, until a sleepy farmer made his appearance, and started us forward
again. He kindly offered to accompany us, but we did not think it necessary. Terribly fatigued
and hungry, we at last saw a star of promise--the light of Ole's kitchen window. There was
a white cloth on the table in the guests' house, and Ole's charming daughter--the Rose of Westfjord-dalen--did
not keep us long waiting. Roast mutton, tender as her own heart, potatoes plump as her cheeks,
and beer sparkling as her eyes, graced the board; but emptiness, void as our own celibate lives,
was there when we arose. In the upper room there were beds, with linen fresh as youth and aromatic
as spring; and the peace of a full stomach and a clear conscience descended upon our sleep.

In the morning we prepared for an early return to Mael, as the boatmen were anxious to get
back to their barley-fields. I found but one expression in the guests' book--that of satisfaction
with Ole Torgensen, and cheerfully added our amen to the previous declarations. Ole's bill
proved his honesty, no less than his worthy face. He brightened up on learning that we were
Americans. "Why," said he, "there have only been two Americans here before in all my life;
and you cannot be a born American, because you speak Norsk so well." "Oh," said I, "I have
learned the language in travelling." "Is it possible?" he exclaimed: "then you must have a
powerful intellect." "By no means," said I, "it is a very easy thing; I have travelled much,
and can speak six other languages." "Now, God help us!" cried he; "seven languages! It is truly
wonderful how much comprehension God has given unto man, that he can keep seven languages in
his head at one time. Here am I, and I am not a fool; yet I do not see how it would be possible
for me to speak anything but Norsk; and when I think of you, it shows me what wonders God has
done. Will you not make a mark under your name, in the book, so that I may distinguish you
from the other two?" I cheerfully complied, and hereby notify future visitors why my name is
italicised in Ole's book.

We bade farewell to the good old man, and rode down the valley of the Maan, through the morning
shadow of the Gousta. Our boat was in readiness; and its couch of fir boughs in the stern became
a pleasant divan of indolence, after our hard horses and rough roads. We reached Tinoset by
one o'clock, but were obliged to wait until four for horses. The only refreshment we could
obtain was oaten bread, and weak spruce beer. Off at last, we took the post-road to Hitterdal,
a smooth, excellent highway, through interminable forests of fir and pine. Towards the close
of the stage, glimpses of a broad, beautiful, and thickly-settled valley glimmered through
the woods, and we found ourselves on the edge of a tremendous gully, apparently the bed of
an extinct river. The banks on both sides were composed entirely of gravel and huge rounded
pebbles, masses of which we loosened at the top, and sent down the sides, gathering as they
rolled, until in a cloud of dust they crashed with a sound like thunder upon the loose shingles
of the bottom 200 feet below. It was scarcely possible to account for this phenomenon by the
action of spring torrents from the melted snow. The immense banks of gravel, which we found
to extend for a considerable distance along the northern side of the valley, seemed rather
to be the deposit of an ocean-flood.

Hitterdal, with its enclosed fields, its harvests, and groups of picturesque, substantial farm-houses,
gave us promise of good quarters for the night; and when our postillions stopped at the door
of a prosperous-looking establishment, we congratulated ourselves on our luck. But (--) never
whistle until you are out of the woods. The people seemed decidedly not to like the idea of
our remaining, but promised to give us supper and beds. They were stupid, but not unfriendly;
and our causes of dissatisfaction were, first, that they were so outrageously filthy, and secondly,
that they lived so miserably when their means evidently allowed them to do better. The family
room, with its two cumbrous bedsteads built against the wall, and indescribably dirty beds,
was given up to us, the family betaking themselves to the stable. As they issued thence in
the morning, in single garments, we were involuntary observers of their degree of bodily neatness;
and the impression was one we would willingly forget. Yet a great painted desk in the room
contained, amid many flourishes, the names and character of the host and hostess, as follows:--"Andres
Svennogsen Bamble, and Ragnil Thorkilsdatter Bamble, Which These Two Are Respectable People."
Over the cupboard, studded with earthen-ware dishes, was an inscription in misspelt Latin:
"Solli Deo Glorria." Our supper consisted of boiled potatoes and fried salt pork, which, having
seen the respectable hosts, it required considerable courage to eat, although we had not seen
the cooking. Fleas darkened the floor; and they, with the fear of something worse, prevented
us from sleeping much. We did not ask for coffee in the morning, but, as soon as we could procure
horses, drove away hungry and disgusted from Bamble-Kaasa and its respectable inhabitants.

The church of Hitterdal, larger than that of Borgund, dates from about the same period, probably
the twelfth century. Its style is similar, although it has not the same horned ornaments upon
the roof, and the Byzantine features being simpler, produce a more harmonious effect. It is
a charmingly quaint and picturesque building, and the people of the valley are justly proud
of it. The interior has been renovated, not in the best style.

Well, to make this very long chapter short, we passed the beautiful falls of the Tind Elv,
drove for more than twenty miles over wild piny hills, and then descended to Kongsberg, where
Fru Hansen comforted us with a good dinner. The next day we breakfasted in Drammen, and, in
baking heat and stifling dust, traversed the civilised country between that city and Christiania.
Our Norwegian travel was now at an end; and, as a snobby Englishman once said to me of the
Nile, "it is a good thing to have gotten over."

CHAPTER XXXIV.

NORWAY AND SWEDEN.

We spent four days in Christiania, after completing our Norwegian travels. The sky was still
perfectly clear, and up to the day of our departure no rain fell. Out of sixty days which we
had devoted to Norway, only four were rainy--a degree of good fortune which rarely falls to
the lot of travellers in the North.

