"'Had a good supper, Squire Smooth?' says he, a broad smile spreading over his broader face.
On answering in the affirmative, he introduced me to numerous unsatisfied politicians. One
of this very numerous gentry, and of whom I had, unfortunately, occasion to know more at a
subsequent period, (he was a man of grief from South Carolina), swore, by his knowledge of
southern rights and secession, that his State, so neglected, would certainly go out of the
Union. She had not a minister abroad--only Consul General at Alexandria, which was said by
the knowing ones to be somewhere in Egypt; and where, to prove his strong faith in southern
principles, and his independent indifference to the feelings of thin-skin northerners, he had
purchased two very handsome Nubian slaves of the feminine gender. This was merely to illustrate
the truly American spirit of our institutions: perchance it might arouse from his stupor the
Viceroy, who not fully cognizant of the height of civilization to which America had arrived,
was making singular, and to me very praiseworthy efforts, to free his people from the curse
of enslaving men. To our patriotic Consul General we say--go it!--a few more such examples
will give the Egyptian an impression of our liberty and christian love most strange: the brilliant
light of our western star will, I fear, have much in it to remind him of those darker days
when his forefathers built pyramids.

"'Come to see the Gineral, I s'pose, stranger?' our Carolinian inquired, with a suspicious
look, touching a companion beside him on the arm. To his inquiry I returned--nothing shorter!
'Cape Cod,' he followed with a respectful bow, 'did noble work for the true democracy; she
is great in sands, shoals, and cod-fish; she will send General Pierce a chowder, as emblematic
of his foreign policy--' Here I interrupted by assuring him that Cape Cod could stand anything
to the stomach digestible; But whether she could digest the General was a doubtful question.
Cape Cod, be it known over the broad acres of this land, I added, has a spirit above living
on government: she turned disdainfully from the means that were fast turning the functions
of government into a machine for grinding out patronage--she never sacrificed Uncle Sam for
the sake of what is in his tin-trunk. At this, which he was pleased to call an expletive, he
begun to summon his dignity: at once he stiffened in a manner that proved how much superior
to me he considered himself, and how much more of Uncle Sam's shiners were necessary to his
conceived maintenance. 'Cape Cod is the place,' says he folding his arms, moving to a more
piquant position, giving his person a little more importance, and making a target of the brightly
polished stove, against which he permitted a well-directed stream of dark fluid to explode
ere he wiped his lips.--'Cape Cod is the place from whence all persons come who profess to
be born free and equal; but they are a scrubby set--' Considering it a duty I owed to the nation,
I again interrupted him. 'Cape Cod,' replied I, 'has got gumption, principle, and the spirit
of a go-ahead in her: she germinated the Young American party. Understand, citizen, (here I
found spunk was necessary), a cape-coaster can at any time boast a full fair of fish; if he
draw them from Mr. John Bull's waters, so much the better. He is no stranger to Mr. John Bull,
whom he esteems rather a dogged fellow, pugnaciously inclined at times, but never so bad as
he seems; and though stubbornly behind the age of progress, nor willing to believe in the principles
of manifest destiny, often improves upon acquaintance.'

"'Good night, Mr. Smooth,' said he hurriedly; 'when you tie up for the night--remember me--!
Hope to see you bright in the morning.' Off, like the handle of a jug, he went. And now it
being time to stow myself away, I hailed for a pilot to navigate me safe into the seventh story.
My fat friend at the counter, whose eyes were becoming leaden, rung again the bell, and out
scampered some dozen darkies from nobody could discern where. I looked at the negroes with
an expression of excitement, and then, somewhat alarmed:--'Stranger,' says I, 'these 'ere niggers
a'int all going to put me through, be they?' He said he reckoned one would do; and to a question
as to what time I would complete the journey to bed, he replied that seeing I was of the Young
American stripe, and that the distinguished of that party could do almost anything, provided
I started soon I would reach the destination about midnight. 'Now, providing it's any accommodation,
Mr. Smooth, we can send you to bed by steam. Say the word and up you'll go!' he rapidly concluded,
rapping with his fingers on the big book he had so leisurely laid aside for the night, there
being no chance of another customer being caught this side of twelve o'clock. I shook my head
and moved off, telling him I did not appreciate being busted up. 'Ain't a mite of danger!'
says he: 'why, stranger, we havn't killed more nor two dozen this year or more.' That Young
America was a go-ahead I was fully conscious; still, being somewhat anxious to extend a little
friendly advice to Gineral Pierce, I begged to be excused from all dangers, Young America must
live to proclaim the manifest destiny of a universal republic. You may lay aside your steam
fixings until a more expedient time to use them--'Here he interrupted by saying my walking
up would only save six cents;--' can put Mr. Smooth into the machine and send him up in a jiffy.
Further, we have got some dozen old gents here who go to bed by steam every night!' I shook
hands with the fellow, exchanged glances, bid them good night all round, and trotted off, following
the darky, who wound his way round corridors, up stairs, and through passages for more than
an hour, (at least, I thought it was!), until I fancied we had got lost in an interminable
labyrinth of narrow passages. It was just after inauguration, which fact was duly made known
through the medium of sundry corks of champagne bottles, which were sounding pop! pop!! pop!!!
Again merry voices were heard announcing the misfortunes of those about to pass out: while
another whose voice seemed somewhat mellow, said he had in his eye the office he wanted--exactly.
A third voice, as if echoed through a subterranean vault, said they must all be forbearing--the
General was so undecided in his opinions. Pretty soon, the negro, having wound his way high
up in the world, turned a corner, gave a tremendous guffaw, and opened the door of a place
that looked very much like a closet in which to stow away lean lawyers. 'Now, Cuff! ye ain't
goin to stow this citizen away in that ar place, be ye?' says I.

"'Mas'r,' returns he, ''tis just the snuggest place ye ever did see; why! tain't da length
on ye, seem how mas'r can double himself up anyhow,--just as Gineral Pierce do.' The darkey
laughed and drew back with a bow, as I began to philosophise that, being now so well up in
the world, it was the best policy to coil up and invoke Morpheus,--which I did, bidding good-night
to all below, and promising myself a pleasant interview with General Pierce on the following
morning.

CHAPTER III.

IN WHICH MR. SMOOTH HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL CASS.

"Smooth had just stowed himself away in the shape of a figure 4, when there came a voice as
husky as Uncle Zack Peabody's conk, (which said conk had been used to blow his way through
the fogs of Newfoundland for nearly half a century), saying:--'It's mighty tight squeezing
there, ain't it, stranger?' Where the voice came from seemed a puzzle for all creation. No
room was there in the place for another soul--all became as still and watchlike as the tomb.
In fear and anxiety I gazed upon the dark wall, and along it to the little window facing the
avenue; and there, behold! but tell it not in the Capitol, was the broad, burly face of General
Cass, like a wet moon in discontent. Unhappy with himself, he was peering in at the window.
Again he muttered:--'I can't get in!--such has always been my fate.' The much-disappointed
old gentleman bore such an expression of discomfiture on his countenance, that Smooth was forced
to the conclusion that to be sociable would only be doing a good turn--more especially as the
General and Uncle Sam never got along well together. 'Then it's you, General?' says I: 'well,
don't be in a hurry!' After a short silence, he inquired if I could accommodate a traveller
who had been long on the road, and short of shot. I said I was not well to do for room; but
as to be obliging was the order of the day, and seeing that he was soon to try another turn
by joining the 'Young American' party, I would see what could be done. He had got upon the
roof of the institution,--just where he could slip backward with great ease, though it took
some effort to go forward. Being somewhat infirm of age, I took him gently by the hand and
assisted him in, where I thought he might, if he pleased, stand upon a square platform. The
General was very polite, bore strongly in his demeanor the marks of time and honor; I could
not suppress the capricious thought--that it was time a sly corner in the patent office were
provided for political relics of a past age, and he safely stowed away in it. All things of
a by-gone age should have their place; notwithstanding, knowing that Uncle Sam and him had
tried to be intimate friends, and that he had many warm and substantial voters in the far West,
I felt to be less than condescending would be bad political policy. He took a seat, and began
to get up his good-nature, as I inquired what earthly mission he could be prosecuting on so
dark and cold a night.

