In no other battle, I think, was the Emperor so visibly protected by his destiny.  Balls whistled
around his ears, carrying away as they passed pieces of the trappings of his horse, shells
and grenades rolled at his feet, but nothing touched him.  The soldiers observed this, and
their enthusiasm rose to the highest pitch.

At the beginning of the battle, the Emperor saw a battalion advancing whose chief had been
suspended from his office two or three days before for some slight breach of discipline.  The
disgraced officer marched in the second rank with his soldiers, by whom he was adored.  The
Emperor saw him, and halting the battalion, took the officer by the hand, and placed him again
at the head of his troop.  The effect produced by this scene was indescribable.

On the 8th of May, at seven o'clock in the evening, the Emperor entered Dresden, and took possession
of the palace, which the Emperor of Russia and King of Prussia had quitted that very evening.
A short distance from the barriers the Emperor was saluted by a deputation from the municipality
of that town.

     "You deserve," said he to these deputies, "that I should treat you
     as a conquered country.  I know all that you have done while the
     allies occupied your town; I have a statement of the number of
     volunteers whom you have clothed, equipped, and armed against me,
     with a generosity which has astonished even the enemy.  I know the
     insults you have heaped on France, and how many shameless libels you
     have to suppress or to burn today.  I am fully aware with what
     transports of joy you received the Emperor of Russia and the King of
     Prussia within your walls.  Your houses are still decorated with the
     garlands, and we still see lying on the earth the flowers which the
     young girls scattered in their path.  Nevertheless, I am willing to
     pardon everything.  Thank your king for this; it is he who saves
     you, and I pardon you only from love of him.  Send a deputation to
     entreat him to return to you.  My aide-de-camp, General Durosnel,
     will be your governor.  Your good king himself could not make a
     better selection."

As soon as he entered the city the Emperor was informed that a part of the Russian rear-guard
sought to hold its ground in the new town, separated from the old by the river Elbe, and had
fallen into the power of our army.

His Majesty immediately ordered that everything should be done in order to drive out this remnant
of the enemy; and during an entire day there was a continued cannonading and shooting in the
town from one bank to the other.  Bullets and shell fell like hail on the spot occupied by
the Emperor.  A shell struck the walls of a powder-magazine not far from him, and scattered
the pieces around his head, but fortunately the powder did not ignite.  A few moments after
another shell fell between his Majesty and several Italians; they bent to avoid the explosion.
The Emperor saw this movement, and laughingly said to them, "Ah, coglioni! non fa male." ["Ah,
scamps! don't behave badly."]

On the 11th of May, in the morning, the Russians were put to flight and pursued, the French
army entering the city from all sides.  The Emperor remained on the bridge the whole day, watching
his troops as they filed in.  The next day at ten o'clock the Imperial Guard under arms were
placed in line of battle on the road from Pirna to Gross Garten.  The Emperor reviewed it,
and ordered General Flahaut to advance.

The King of Saxony arrived about noon.  On meeting again, the two sovereigns alighted from
their horses and embraced each other, and then entered Dresden amid general acclamations.

General Flahaut, who had gone to meet the King of Saxony with a part of the imperial Guard,
received from this good king the most flattering testimonials of appreciation and gratitude.
It is impossible to show more cordiality and friendliness than the King of Saxony displayed.
The Emperor said of him and his family that they were a patriarchal family, and that all who
comprised it joined to striking virtues an expansive kindness of manner which made them adored
by their subjects.  His Majesty paid this royal personage the most affectionate attentions,
and as long as the war lasted sent couriers each day to keep the king informed of the least
circumstance:  He came himself as often as possible, and, in fact, constantly treated him with
that cordiality he so well knew how to display and to render irresistible when he chose.

A few days after his arrival at Dresden his Majesty held a long conversation with the King
of Saxony, in which the Emperor Alexander was the principal subject of conversation.

The characteristics and faults of this prince were fully analyzed; and the conclusion drawn
from this conversation was that the Emperor Alexander had been sincere in the interview at
Erfurt, and that it must have been very complicated intrigues which had thus led to the rupture
of all their treaties of friendship.  "Sovereigns are most unfortunate," said his Majesty;
"always deceived, always surrounded by flatterers or treacherous counselors, whose greatest
desire is to prevent the truth from reaching the ears of their masters, who have so much interest
in knowing it."

The two sovereigns next spoke of the Emperor of Austria.  His Majesty appeared profoundly grieved
that his union with the Archduchess Marie Louise, whom he did all in his power to render the
happiest of women, should have failed in producing the result he had anticipated, of obtaining
for him the confidence and friendship of her father.  "It is perhaps because I was not born
a sovereign," said the Emperor; "and nevertheless, I should think that this would be an additional
inducement to the friendship of my father-in-law.  I shall never be convinced that such ties
are not strong enough to obtain the alliance of the Emperor of Austria; for, in fact, I am
his son-in-law, my son is his grandson, he loves his daughter, and she is happy; how, then,
can he be my enemy?"

On learning of the victory of Lutzen, and the entrance of the Emperor into Dresden, the Emperor
of Austria hastened to send M. de Bubna to his son- in-law.  He arrived on the evening of the
16th; and the interview, which his Majesty immediately granted, lasted until two hours after
midnight. This led us to hope that peace was about to be concluded, and we consequently formed
a thousand conjectures, each more encouraging than the other; but when two or three days had
passed away, and we still witnessed only preparations for war, we saw that our hopes were cruelly
deceived.  Then it was I heard the unfortunate Marshal Duroc exclaim, "This is lasting too
long!  We will none of us outlive it!"  He had a presentiment of his own death.

During the whole of this campaign the Emperor had not a moment of repose. The days passed away
in combats or marches, always on horseback; the nights in labors in the cabinet.  I never comprehended
how his body could endure such fatigue, and yet he enjoyed almost continuously the most perfect
health.  The evening before the battle of Bautzen he retired very late, after visiting all
the military posts, and, having given all necessary orders, slept profoundly.  Early next morning,
the 20th of May, movements began, and we awaited at headquarters with eager impatience the
results of this day.  But the battle was not over even then; and after a succession of encounters,
always ending in our favor, although hotly contested, the Emperor, at nine o'clock in the evening,
returned to headquarters, took a light repast, and remained with Prince Berthier until midnight.
The remainder of the night was passed in work, and at five o'clock in the morning he was on
his feet and ready to return to the combat.  Three or four hours after his arrival on the battlefield
the Emperor was overcome by an irresistible desire for sleep, and, foreseeing the issue of
the day, slept on the side of a ravine, in the midst of the batteries of the Duke of Ragusa,
until he was awaked with the information that the battle was gained.

This fact, which was related to me in the evening, did not astonish me in the least; for I
have already remarked that when he was compelled to yield to the necessity of sleep, that imperious
want of nature, the Emperor took the repose which was so necessary to him when and where he
could, like a true soldier.

Although the result was decided, the battle was continued until five o'clock in the evening.
At six o'clock the Emperor had his tent erected near a solitary inn, which had served as headquarters
for the Emperor Alexander during the two preceding days.  I received orders to attend him there,
and did so with all speed; but his Majesty, nevertheless, passed the whole night receiving
and congratulating the chief generals, and working with his secretaries.

All the wounded who were able to march were already on the road to Dresden, where all necessary
help awaited them. He was so nice that he blamed himself for expecting that an arranged marriage made
for a young British man could be successful. He did desire that I tell him everything that had happened
since we'd had supper, and particularly that I talk to him about my meeting with Gustave.
So I told him, just as I've told you, assuring him that the whole incident had caused no harm,
though I didn't come out of it looking good. He then went out and came back later.

Must they then let all these men perish after most horrible sufferings, for lack of means to
convey them to Dresden?

It was then that this population of Saxon villagers, who it might have been thought must be
embittered by the horrors of war,--in seeing their dwellings burned, their fields ravaged,--furnished
to the army an example of the sublime sentiments which pity can inspire in the heart of man.
They perceived the cruel anxiety which M. Larrey and his companions suffered concerning the
fate of so many unfortunate wounded, and immediately men, women, children, and even old men,
hastily brought wheelbarrows.  The wounded were lifted, and placed on these frail conveyances.
Two or three persons accompanied each wheelbarrow all the way to Dresden, halting if by a cry
or gesture even, the wounded indicated a desire to rest, stopping to replace the bandages which
the motion had displaced, or near a spring to give them water to allay the fever which devoured
them.  I have never seen a more touching sight.

Baron Larrey had an animated discussion with the Emperor.  Among the wounded, there were found
a large number of young soldiers with two fingers of their right hand torn off; and his Majesty
thought that these poor young fellows had done it purposely to keep from serving.  Having said
this to M. Larrey, the latter vehemently exclaimed that it was an impossibility, and that such
baseness was not in keeping with the character of these brave young conscripts.  As the Emperor
still maintained his position, Larrey at length became so angry that he went so far as to tax
the Emperor with injustice.  Things were in this condition when it was positively proved that
these uniform wounds came from the haste with which these young soldiers loaded and discharged
their guns, not being accustomed to handling them.  Whereupon his Majesty saw that M. de Larrey
was right, and praised him for his firmness in maintaining what he, knew to be the truth. 
"You are a thoroughly good man, M. de Larrey," said the Emperor.  "I wish I could be surrounded
only with men like you; but such men are very rare."

CHAPTER XII.

We had now reached the eve of the day on which the Emperor, still deeply affected by the loss
he had sustained in the death of the Duke of Istria, was to receive a blow which he felt perhaps
most keenly of all those which struck deep into his heart as he saw his old companions in arms
fall around him.  The day following that on which the Emperor had, with Baron Larrey, the discussion
which I related at the end of the preceding chapter was made memorable by the irreparable loss
of Marshal Duroc.  The Emperor's heart was crushed; and indeed not one of us failed to shed
sincere tears--so just and good was he, although grave and severe in his manner towards persons
whom the nature of their duties brought into contact with him. I still have a confused memory of
the beginning of storm which raged for days, a sort of ninght mare. When I am on the sea, this day
haunt me at intervals. The thing is that during that period is the whie face of my mother, ill
in her berth. In the ship there is five hundred emigrants with us,
and the storm grew wilder an unreasoning terror filled our felloe
passengers.  The death of Marshal Duroc was an event
so grievous and so totally unexpected, that we remained for some time uncertain whether to
believe it, even when the only too evident reality no longer permitted us to remain under any
delusion.

These are the circumstances under which this fatal event occurred which spread consternation
throughout the army: The Emperor was pursuing the rear guard of the Russians, who continually
eluded him, and had just escaped for the tenth time since the morning, after having killed
and taken prisoners large numbers of our brave soldiers, when two or three shells dug up the
ground at the Emperor's feet, and caused him to exclaim, "What! after such butchery no result!
no prisoners! those men there will not leave me a nail." " It's getting late, and I have to go now,"
she said. "Tomorrow?" I asked in anticipation. "Yes, tomorrow, I'll see you soon, Goodbye" she
said as she turned to leave. She turned back as if she had changed her mind, but then continued on her way,
only to dash my hopes. If the tables were turned, I would not leave her in this compromised
state.
3. Evening, and a Castle Under Attack
There is a thick forest surrounding Tiverton Manor, where I went to
be alone, lying in the bed of leaves, daydreaming of happier times.
Somehow, I could feel the crumpled papers in my jacket pocket. The roof of the chancel is a semi-circular
projection, as is the nave, which is covered in modern house tiles. Inside, the nave's ceiling
is flat, and made from deal boards. The pulpit and seats both have a wainscot pattern, and there
are a small desk and lectern to match them. And, lo, among them
were free men responsible for themselves, more or less, and also some who traveled under a
bond of indenture and thus both received remunerations and were, thus, contracted to serve those
who were their masters. Among these so bound was the impeccable, handsome, and youthful Ali. His
rank made him trivial to most of us, but as we crept along the path it was certain that he,
like his comrades of similar rank, would become useful, particularly when we came to travel
through the predominantly negroid kingdoms. An Islamic priest, a saint by some accounts, is also
with us. He hails from Fezzan, the same place our dromedary handlers come from. The Fezzanies
joined us immediately after a long trip with a camel train from Mourzuk, slowing our egress
with their need to recuperate in advance of renewed travel across the difficult terrain between
our point of departure and the borders of their home country.

Such travel as this requires a surfeit of time, for so it is with any attempt to traverse deserts.
Fast dromedaries seldom march more swiftly than three miles in every hour, and two miles for each
hour is much more common. Therefore, we may consider their rate to be, on average, some two
and one half miles per the hour, meaning that even on a grueling trek twelve hours in length we
cannot possibly proceed more than some thirty miles each day.

     
     In advance of the beginning of my account of this length of travel,
     let me inform you with a small number of my insights into business
     these days, that commerce with the inner regions of the Dark Continent
     that occurs via Tripoli. My knowledge goes beyond an understanding
     of maps and numbers and other secrets, for I see our avocation
     as one of evangelism, not in the name of God but rather in the name
of legal commerce.

Conversion along these lines will end the horrors routinely and repeatedly decimating the populations
of the central African states, and will reverse the sorrows afflicting the coastal regions that
surround them. All of the dark peoples can find wealth in commercial export of the resources
native to their homelands, and when this happens, maybe only then, will they turn away from
enslaving their kinsman as means to profit. Such is my conviction on this point that I have
become an avid student of everything to do with commerce via camel train.

So it is that I come to know that there are essentially two pairs of routes to be followed by such
travelers seeking trade out of the Barbary coast, two times two being
the number of key places, gems in the crown of Central Africa, to
and from which caravans must journey, the names of those being, specifically,
Wadai and Bornou, and also Soudan and Timbuctoo.

     Out of Wadai, every second year, there journeys a caravan intent
     on reaching Bengazi. They carry with them a vast quantity of their
     enslaved brethren, but also proper, legal goods such as the teeth
     of elephants and the plumes of the ostrich.

Such was not always so, as this is a route pioneered in our time, the result of contemporary
actions originating as recently as the century before this one.

                  And from Bengazi outward therefore flow
          as great a quantity of trade goods as to match the sum
                      of an entire third of all the
             goods passing through Tripoli.

Slaves represent the bulk of trade
via Fezzan, out of Bornou, it grieves me to report to you. At least
I can reveal that ivory has begun to flow along this caravan route
as well. 

A big young man is called upon by Hyp, who asks him if he can whistle. Told yes, he's asked
to whistle a tune, which he does, but not well. He sounds like a cushion from which air is escaping.
"If I didn't wake him, his friends would never get to hear that whistle again."
From the back row, a voice calls, "Don't awaken him, who can stand
it." 
Hyp. From 1838 to 1841, we stood faithfully
by Sir R. Peel's long and able contest with the movement party.

Although, many who had been most courteous during the ensuing days of his power, turned out to
be some of the least immoderate leaders on the other side.