XXIV.  Though he made no scruple to assume and exercise immediately the imperial authority,
by giving orders that he (209) should be attended by the guards, who were the security and
badge of the supreme power; yet he affected, by a most impudent piece of acting, to refuse
it for a long time; one while sharply reprehending his friends who entreated him to accept
it, as little knowing what a monster the government was; another while keeping in suspense
the senate, when they implored him and threw themselves at his feet, by ambiguous answers,
and a crafty kind of dissimulation; insomuch that some were out of patience, and one cried
out, during the confusion, "Either let him accept it, or decline it at once;" and a second
told him to his face, "Others are slow to perform what they promise, but you are slow to promise
what you actually perform."  At last, as if forced to it, and complaining of the miserable
and burdensome service imposed upon him, he accepted the government; not, however, without
giving hopes of his resigning it some time or other. The exact words he used were these: "Until
the time shall come, when ye may think it reasonable to give some rest to my old age."

XXV.  The cause of his long demur was fear of the dangers which threatened him on all hands;
insomuch that he said, "I have got a wolf by the ears."  For a slave of Agrippa's, Clemens
by name, had drawn together a considerable force to revenge his master's death; Lucius Scribonius
Libo, a senator of the first distinction, was secretly fomenting a rebellion; and the troops
both in Illyricum and Germany were mutinous.  Both armies insisted upon high demands, particularly
that their pay should be made equal to that of the pretorian guards.  The army in Germany absolutely
refused to acknowledge a prince who was not their own choice; and urged, with all possible
importunity, Germanicus [329], who commanded them, to take the government on himself, though
he obstinately refused it.  It was Tiberius's apprehension from this quarter, which made him
request the senate to assign him some part only in the administration, such as they should
judge proper, since no man could be sufficient for the whole, without one or more to assist
him.  He pretended likewise to be in a bad state of health, that Germanicus might the more
patiently wait in hopes of speedily succeeding him, or at least of being (210) admitted to
be a colleague in the government.  When the mutinies in the armies were suppressed, he got
Clemens into his hands by stratagem.  That he might not begin his reign by an act of severity,
he did not call Libo to an account before the senate until his second year, being content,
in the mean time, with taking proper precautions for his own security.  For upon Libo's attending
a sacrifice amongst the high-priests, instead of the usual knife, he ordered one of lead to
be given him; and when he desired a private conference with him, he would not grant his request,
but on condition that his son Drusus should be present; and as they walked together, he held
him fast by the right hand, under the pretence of leaning upon him, until the conversation
was over.

XXVI.  When he was delivered from his apprehensions, his behaviour at first was unassuming,
and he did not carry himself much above the level of a private person; and of the many and
great honours offered him, he accepted but few, and such as were very moderate.  His birth-day,
which happened to fall at the time of the Plebeian Circensian games, he with difficulty suffered
to be honoured with the addition of only a single chariot, drawn by two horses.  He forbad
temples, flamens, or priests to be appointed for him, as likewise the erection of any statues
or effigies for him, without his permission; and this he granted only on condition that they
should not be placed amongst the images of the gods, but only amongst the ornaments of houses.
He also interposed to prevent the senate from swearing to maintain his acts; and the month
of September from being called Tiberius, and October being named after Livia.  The praenomen
likewise of EMPEROR, with the cognomen of FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY, and a civic crown in the vestibule
of his house, he would not accept.  He never used the name of AUGUSTUS, although he inherited
it, in any of his letters, excepting those addressed to kings and princes.  Nor had he more
than three consulships; one for a few days, another for three months, and a third, during his
absence from the city, until the ides [fifteenth] of May.

XXVII.  He had such an aversion to flattery, that he would never suffer any senator to approach
his litter, as he passed the streets in it, either to pay him a civility, or upon business.
(211) And when a man of consular rank, in begging his pardon for some offence he had given
him, attempted to fall at his feet, he started from him in such haste, that he stumbled and
fell.  If any compliment was paid him, either in conversation or a set speech, he would not
scruple to interrupt and reprimand the party, and alter what he had said.  Being once called
"lord," [330] by some person, he desired that he might no more be affronted in that manner.
When another, to excite veneration, called his occupations "sacred," and a third had expressed
himself thus: "By your authority I have waited upon the senate," he obliged them to change
their phrases; in one of them adopting persuasion, instead of "authority," and in the other,
laborious, instead of "sacred."

XXVIII.  He remained unmoved at all the aspersions, scandalous reports, and lampoons, which
were spread against him or his relations; declaring, "In a free state, both the tongue and
the mind ought to be free."  Upon the senate's desiring that some notice might be taken of
those offences, and the persons charged with them, he replied, "We have not so much time upon
our hands, that we ought to involve ourselves in more business.  If you once make an opening
[331] for such proceedings, you will soon have nothing else to do.  All private quarrels will
be brought before you under that pretence."  There is also on record another sentence used
by him in the senate, which is far from assuming: "If he speaks otherwise of me, I shall take
care to behave in such a manner, as to be able to give a good account both of my words and
actions; and if he persists, I shall hate him in my turn."

XXIX.  These things were so much the more remarkable in him, because, in the respect he paid
to individuals, or the whole body of the senate, he went beyond all bounds.  Upon his differing
with Quintus Haterius in the senate-house, "Pardon me, sir," he said, "I beseech you, if I
shall, as a senator, speak my mind very freely in opposition to you."  Afterwards, addressing
the senate in general, he said: "Conscript Fathers, I have often said it both now and at other
times, that a good (212) and useful prince, whom you have invested with so great and absolute
power, ought to be a slave to the senate, to the whole body of the people, and often to individuals
likewise: nor am I sorry that I have said it.  I have always found you good, kind, and indulgent
masters, and still find you so."

XXX.  He likewise introduced a certain show of liberty, by preserving to the senate and magistrates
their former majesty and power.  All affairs, whether of great or small importance, public
or private, were laid before the senate.  Taxes and monopolies, the erecting or repairing edifices,
levying and disbanding soldiers, the disposal of the legions and auxiliary forces in the provinces,
the appointment of generals for the management of extraordinary wars, and the answers to letters
from foreign princes, were all submitted to the senate.  He compelled the commander of a troop
of horse, who was accused of robbery attended with violence, to plead his cause before the
senate.  He never entered the senate-house but unattended; and being once brought thither in
a litter, because he was indisposed, he dismissed his attendants at the door.

XXXI.  When some decrees were made contrary to his opinion, he did not even make any complaint.
And though he thought that no magistrates after their nomination should be allowed to absent
themselves from the city, but reside in it constantly, to receive their honours in person,
a praetor-elect obtained liberty to depart under the honorary title of a legate at large. 
Again, when he proposed to the senate, that the Trebians might have leave granted them to divert
some money which had been left them by will for the purpose of building a new theatre, to that
of making a road, he could not prevail to have the will of the testator set aside.  And when,
upon a division of the house, he went over to the minority, nobody followed him.  All other
things of a public nature were likewise transacted by the magistrates, and in the usual forms;
the authority of the consuls remaining so great, that some ambassadors from Africa applied
to them, and complained, that they could not have their business dispatched by Caesar, to whom
they had been sent.  And no wonder; since it was observed that he used to rise up as the consuls
approached, and give them the way.

(213) XXXII.  He reprimanded some persons of consular rank in command of armies, for not writing
to the senate an account of their proceedings, and for consulting him about the distribution
of military rewards; as if they themselves had not a right to bestow them as they judged proper.
He commended a praetor, who, on entering office, revived an old custom of celebrating the memory
of his ancestors, in a speech to the people.  He attended the corpses of some persons of distinction
to the funeral pile. He displayed the same moderation with regard to persons and things of
inferior consideration.  The magistrates of Rhodes, having dispatched to him a letter on public
business, which was not subscribed, he sent for them, and without giving them so much as one
harsh word, desired them to subscribe it, and so dismissed them.  Diogenes, the grammarian,
who used to hold public disquisitions, at Rhodes every sabbath-day, once refused him admittance
upon his coming to hear him out of course, and sent him a message by a servant, postponing
his admission until the next seventh day.  Diogenes afterwards coming to Rome, and waiting
at his door to be allowed to pay his respects to him, he sent him word to come again at the
end of seven years.  To some governors, who advised him to load the provinces with taxes, he
answered, "It is the part of a good shepherd to shear, not flay, his sheep."

XXXIII.  He assumed the sovereignty [332] by slow degrees, and exercised it for a long time
with great variety of conduct, though generally with a due regard to the public good.  At first
he only interposed to prevent ill management.  Accordingly, he rescinded some decrees of the
senate; and when the magistrates sat for the administration of justice, he frequently offered
his service as assessor, either taking his place promiscuously amongst them, or seating himself
in a corner of the tribunal.  If a rumour prevailed, that any person under prosecution was
likely to be acquitted by his interest, he would suddenly make his appearance, and from the
floor of the court, (214) or the praetor's bench, remind the judges of the laws, and of their
oaths, and the nature of the charge brought before them, he likewise took upon himself the
correction of public morals, where they tended to decay, either through neglect, or evil custom.

XXXIV.  He reduced the expense of the plays and public spectacles, by diminishing the allowances
to actors, and curtailing the number of gladiators.  He made grievous complaints to the senate,
that the price of Corinthian vessels was become enormous, and that three mullets had been sold
for thirty thousand sesterces: upon which he proposed that a new sumptuary law should be enacted;
that the butchers and other dealers in viands should be subject to an assize, fixed by the
senate yearly; and the aediles commissioned to restrain eating-houses and taverns, so far as
not even to permit the sale of any kind of pastry.  And to encourage frugality in the public
by his own example, he would often, at his solemn feasts, have at his tables victuals which
had been served up the day before, and were partly eaten, and half a boar, affirming, "It has
all the same good bits that the whole had."  He published an edict against the practice of
people's kissing each other when they met; and would not allow new-year's gifts [333] to be
presented after the calends [the first] of January was passed.  He had been in the habit of
returning these offerings four-fold, and making them with his own hand; but being annoyed by
the continual interruption to which he was exposed during the whole month, by those who had
not the opportunity of attending him on the festival, he returned none after that day.

XXXV.  Married women guilty of adultery, though not prosecuted publicly, he authorised the
nearest relations to punish by agreement among themselves, according to ancient custom.  He
discharged a Roman knight from the obligation of an oath he had taken, never to turn away his
wife; and allowed him to divorce her, upon her being caught in criminal intercourse with her
son-in-law.  Women of ill-fame, divesting themselves of the rights and dignity of matrons,
had now begun a practice of professing themselves prostitutes, to avoid (215) the punishment
of the laws; and the most profligate young men of the senatorian and equestrian orders, to
secure themselves against a decree of the senate, which prohibited their performing on the
stage, or in the amphitheatre, voluntarily subjected themselves to an infamous sentence, by
which they were degraded.  All those he banished, that none for the future might evade by such
artifices the intention and efficacy of the law.  He stripped a senator of the broad stripes
on his robe, upon information of his having removed to his gardens before the calends [the
first] of July, in order that he might afterwards hire a house cheaper in the city.  He likewise
dismissed another from the office of quaestor, for repudiating, the day after he had been lucky
in drawing his lot, a wife whom he had married only the day before.

XXXVI.  He suppressed all foreign religions, and the Egyptian [334] and Jewish rites, obliging
those who practised that kind of superstition, to burn their vestments, and all their sacred
utensils.  He distributed the Jewish youths, under the pretence of military service, among
the provinces noted for an unhealthy climate; and dismissed from the city all the rest of that
nation as well as those who were proselytes to that religion [335], under pain of slavery for
life, unless they complied.  He also expelled the astrologers; but upon their suing for pardon,
and promising to renounce their profession, he revoked his decree.

XXXVII.  But, above all things, he was careful to keep the (216) public peace against robbers,
burglars, and those who were disaffected to the government.  He therefore increased the number
of military stations throughout Italy; and formed a camp at Rome for the pretorian cohorts,
which, till then, had been quartered in the city.  He suppressed with great severity all tumults
of the people on their first breaking out; and took every precaution to prevent them.  Some
persons having been killed in a quarrel which happened in the theatre, he banished the leaders
of the parties, and the players about whom the disturbance had arisen; nor could all the entreaties
of the people afterwards prevail upon him to recall them [336].  The people of Pollentia having
refused to permit the removal of the corpse of a centurion of the first rank from the forum,
until they had extorted from his heirs a sum of money for a public exhibition of gladiators,
he detached a cohort from the city, and another from the kingdom of Cottius [337]; who concealing
the cause of their march, entered the town by different gates, with their arms suddenly displayed,
and trumpets sounding; and having seized the greatest part of the people, and the magistrates,
they were imprisoned for life.  He abolished every where the privileges of all places of refuge.
The Cyzicenians having committed an outrage upon some Romans, he deprived them of the liberty
they had obtained for their good services in the Mithridatic war.  Disturbances from foreign
enemies he quelled by his lieutenants, without ever going against them in person; nor would
he even employ his lieutenants, but with much reluctance, and when it was absolutely necessary.
Princes who were ill-affected towards him, he kept in subjection, more by menaces and remonstrances,
than by force of arms. Some whom he induced to come to him by fair words and promises, he never
would permit to return home; as Maraboduus the German, Thrascypolis the (217) Thracian, and
Archelaus the Cappadocian, whose kingdom he even reduced into the form of a province.

XXXVIII.  He never set foot outside the gates of Rome, for two years together, from the time
he assumed the supreme power; and after that period, went no farther from the city than to
some of the neighbouring towns; his farthest excursion being to Antium [338], and that but
very seldom, and for a few days; though he often gave out that he would visit the provinces
and armies, and made preparations for it almost every year, by taking up carriages, and ordering
provisions for his retinue in the municipia and colonies.  At last he suffered vows to be put
up for his good journey and safe return, insomuch that he was called jocosely by the name of
Callipides, who is famous in a Greek proverb, for being in a great hurry to go forward, but
without ever advancing a cubit.

XXXIX.  But after the loss of his two sons, of whom Germanicus died in Syria, and Drusus at
Rome, he withdrew into Campania [339]; at which time opinion and conversation were almost general,
that he never would return, and would die soon.  And both nearly turned out to be true.  For
indeed he never more came to Rome; and a few days after leaving it, when he was at a villa
of his called the Cave, near Terracina [340], during supper a great many huge stones fell from
above, which killed several of the guests and attendants; but he almost hopelessly escaped.

XL.  After he had gone round Campania, and dedicated the capitol at Capua, and a temple to
Augustus at Nola [341], which he made the pretext of his journey, he retired to Capri; being
(218) greatly delighted with the island, because it was accessible only by a narrow beach,
being on all sides surrounded with rugged cliffs, of a stupendous height, and by a deep sea.
But immediately, the people of Rome being extremely clamorous for his return, on account of
a disaster at Fidenae [342], where upwards of twenty thousand persons had been killed by the
fall of the amphitheatre, during a public spectacle of gladiators, he crossed over again to
the continent, and gave all people free access to him; so much the more, because, at his departure
from the city, he had caused it to be proclaimed that no one should address him, and had declined
admitting any persons to his presence, on the journey.

XLI.  Returning to the island, he so far abandoned all care of the government, that he never
filled up the decuriae of the knights, never changed any military tribunes or prefects, or
governors of provinces, and kept Spain and Syria for several years without any consular lieutenants.
He likewise suffered Armenia to be seized by the Parthians, Moesia by the Dacians and Sarmatians,
and Gaul to be ravaged by the Germans; to the great disgrace, and no less danger, of the empire.

XLII.  But having now the advantage of privacy, and being remote from the observation of the
people of Rome, he abandoned himself to all the vicious propensities which he had long but
imperfectly concealed, and of which I shall here give a particular account from the beginning.
While a young soldier in the camp, he was so remarkable for his excessive inclination to wine,
that, for Tiberius, they called him Biberius; for Claudius, Caldius; and for Nero, Mero.  And
after he succeeded to the empire, and was invested with the office of reforming the morality
of the people, he spent a whole night and two days together in feasting and drinking with Pomponius
Flaccus and Lucius Piso; to one of whom he immediately gave the province of Syria, and to the
other the prefecture of the city; declaring them, in his letters-patent, to be "very pleasant
companions, and friends fit for all occasions."  He made an appointment to sup with Sestius
Gallus, a lewd and prodigal old fellow, who had been disgraced by Augustus, and reprimanded
by himself but a few days before in the senate-house; upon condition that he should not recede
in the least from his usual method of entertainment, and that they should be attended at table
by naked girls.  He preferred a very obscure candidate for the quaestorship, before the most
noble competitors, only for taking off, in pledging him at table, an amphora of wine at a draught
[343].  He presented Asellius Sabinus with two hundred thousand sesterces, for writing a dialogue,
in the way of dispute, betwixt the truffle and the fig-pecker, the oyster and the thrush. 
He likewise instituted a new office to administer to his voluptuousness, to which he appointed
Titus Caesonius Priscus, a Roman knight.

XLIII.  In his retreat at Capri [344], he also contrived an apartment containing couches, and
adapted to the secret practice of abominable lewdness, where he entertained companies of girls
and catamites, and assembled from all quarters inventors of unnatural copulations, whom he
called Spintriae, who defiled one another in his presence, to inflame by the exhibition the
languid appetite.  He had several chambers set round with pictures and statues in the most
lascivious attitudes, and furnished with the books of Elephantis, that none might want a pattern
for the execution of any lewd project that was prescribed him.  He likewise contrived recesses
in woods and groves for the gratification of lust, where young persons of both sexes prostituted
themselves in caves and hollow rocks, in the disguise of little Pans and Nymphs [345].  So
that he was publicly and commonly called, by an abuse of the name of the island, Caprineus. [346]

XLIV.  But he was still more infamous, if possible, for an (220) abomination not fit to be
mentioned or heard, much less credited. [347] ------------------When a picture, painted by
Parrhasius, in which the artist had represented Atalanta in the act of submitting to Meleager's
lust in a most unnatural way, was bequeathed to him, with this proviso, that if the subject
was offensive to him, he might receive in lieu of it a million of sesterces, he not only chose
the picture, but hung it up in his bed-chamber.  It is also reported that, during a sacrifice,
he was so captivated with the form of a youth who held a censer, that, before the religious
rites were well over, he took him aside and abused him; as also a brother of his who had been
playing the flute; and soon afterwards broke the legs of both of them, for upbraiding one another
with their shame.

XLV.  How much he was guilty of a most foul intercourse with women even of the first quality
[348], appeared very plainly by the death of one Mallonia, who, being brought to his bed, but
resolutely refusing to comply with his lust, he gave her up to the common informers.  Even
when she was upon her trial, he frequently called out to her, and asked her, "Do you repent?"
until she, quitting the court, went home, and stabbed herself; openly upbraiding the vile old
lecher for his gross obscenity [349]. Hence there was an allusion to him in a farce, which
was acted at the next public sports, and was received with great applause, and became a common
topic of ridicule [350]: that the old goat--------

XLVI.  He was so niggardly and covetous, that he never allowed to his attendants, in his travels
and expeditions, any salary, but their diet only.  Once, indeed, he treated them liberally,
at the instigation of his step-father, when, dividing them into three classes, according to
their rank, he gave the (221) first six, the second four, and the third two, hundred thousand
sesterces, which last class he called not friends, but Greeks.

XLVII.  During the whole time of his government, he never erected any noble edifice; for the
only things he did undertake, namely, building the temple of Augustus, and restoring Pompey's
Theatre, he left at last, after many years, unfinished.  Nor did he ever entertain the people
with public spectacles; and he was seldom present at those which were given by others, lest
any thing of that kind should be requested of him; especially after he was obliged to give
freedom to the comedian Actius. Having relieved the poverty of a few senators, to avoid further
demands, he declared that he should for the future assist none, but those who gave the senate
full satisfaction as to the cause of their necessity.  Upon this, most of the needy senators,
from modesty and shame, declined troubling him.  Amongst these was Hortalus, grandson to the
celebrated orator Quintus Hortensius, who [marrying], by the persuasion of Augustus, had brought
up four children upon a very small estate.

XLVIII.  He displayed only two instances of public munificence.  One was an offer to lend gratis,
for three years, a hundred millions of sesterces to those who wanted to borrow; and the other,
when, some large houses being burnt down upon Mount Caelius, he indemnified the owners.  To
the former of these he was compelled by the clamours of the people, in a great scarcity of
money, when he had ratified a decree of the senate obliging all money-lenders to advance two-thirds
of their capital on land, and the debtors to pay off at once the same proportion of their debts,
and it was found insufficient to remedy the grievance.  The other he did to alleviate in some
degree the pressure of the times.  But his benefaction to the sufferers by fire, he estimated
at so high a rate, that he ordered the Caelian Hill to be called, in future, the Augustan.
To the soldiery, after doubling the legacy left them by Augustus, he never gave any thing,
except a thousand denarii a man to the pretorian guards, for not joining the party of Sejanus;
and some presents to the legions in Syria, because they alone had not paid reverence to the
effigies of Sejanus among their standards.  He seldom gave discharges to the veteran soldiers,
calculating (222) on their deaths from advanced age, and on what would be saved by thus getting
rid of them, in the way of rewards or pensions.  Nor did he ever relieve the provinces by any
act of generosity, excepting Asia, where some cities had been destroyed by an earthquake.

XLIX.  In the course of a very short time, he turned his mind to sheer robbery.  It is certain
that Cneius Lentulus, the augur, a man of vast estate, was so terrified and worried by his
threats and importunities, that he was obliged to make him his heir; and that Lepida, a lady
of a very noble family, was condemned by him, in order to gratify Quirinus, a man of consular
rank, extremely rich, and childless, who had divorced her twenty years before, and now charged
her with an old design to poison him.  Several persons, likewise, of the first distinction
in Gaul, Spain, Syria, and Greece, had their estates confiscated upon such despicably trifling
and shameless pretences, that against some of them no other charge was preferred, than that
they held large sums of ready money as part of their property.  Old immunities, the rights
of mining, and of levying tolls, were taken from several cities and private persons.  And Vonones,
king of the Parthians, who had been driven out of his dominions by his own subjects, and fled
to Antioch with a vast treasure, claiming the protection of the Roman people, his allies, was
treacherously robbed of all his money, and afterwards murdered.

L.  He first manifested hatred towards his own relations in the case of his brother Drusus,
betraying him by the production of a letter to himself, in which Drusus proposed that Augustus
should be forced to restore the public liberty.  In course of time, he shewed the same disposition
with regard to the rest of his family.  So far was he from performing any office of kindness
or humanity to his wife, when she was banished, and, by her father's order, confined to one
town, that he forbad her to stir out of the house, or converse with any men.  He even wronged
her of the dowry given her by her father, and of her yearly allowance, by a quibble of law,
because Augustus had made no provision for them on her behalf in his will.  Being harassed
by his mother, Livia, who claimed an equal share in the government with him, he frequently
avoided (223) seeing her, and all long and private conferences with her, lest it should be
thought that he was governed by her counsels, which, notwithstanding, he sometimes sought,
and was in the habit of adopting. He was much offended at the senate, when they proposed to
add to his other titles that of the Son of Livia, as well as Augustus.  He, therefore, would
not suffer her to be called "the Mother of her Country," nor to receive any extraordinary public
distinction.  Nay, he frequently admonished her "not to meddle with weighty affairs, and such
as did not suit her sex;" especially when he found her present at a fire which broke out near
the Temple of Vesta [351], and encouraging the people and soldiers to use their utmost exertions,
as she had been used to do in the time of her husband.

LI.  He afterwards proceeded to an open rupture with her, and, as is said, upon this occasion.
She having frequently urged him to place among the judges a person who had been made free of
the city, he refused her request, unless she would allow it to be inscribed on the roll, "That
the appointment had been extorted from him by his mother."  Enraged at this, Livia brought
forth from her chapel some letters from Augustus to her, complaining of the sourness and insolence
of Tiberius's temper, and these she read.  So much was he offended at these letters having
been kept so long, and now produced with so much bitterness against him, that some considered
this incident as one of the causes of his going into seclusion, if not the principal reason
for his so doing.  In the (224) whole years she lived during his retirement, he saw her but
once, and that for a few hours only.  When she fell sick shortly afterwards, he was quite unconcerned
about visiting her in her illness; and when she died, after promising to attend her funeral,
he deferred his coming for several days, so that the corpse was in a state of decay and putrefaction
before the interment; and he then forbad divine honours being paid to her, pretending that
he acted according to her own directions.  He likewise annulled her will, and in a short time
ruined all her friends and acquaintance; not even sparing those to whom, on her death-bed,
she had recommended the care of her funeral, but condemning one of them, a man of equestrian
rank, to the treadmill. [352]

LII.  He entertained no paternal affection either for his own son Drusus, or his adopted son
Germanicus.  Offended at the vices of the former, who was of a loose disposition and led a
dissolute life, he was not much affected at his death; but, almost immediately after the funeral,
resumed his attention to business, and prevented the courts from being longer closed.  The
ambassadors from the people of Ilium coming rather late to offer their condolence, he said
to them by way of banter, as if the affair had already faded from his memory, "And I heartily
condole with you on the loss of your renowned countryman, Hector."  He so much affected to
depreciate Germanicus, that he spoke of his achievements as utterly insignificant, and railed
at his most glorious victories as ruinous to the state; complaining of him also to the senate
for going to Alexandria without his knowledge, upon occasion of a great and sudden famine at
Rome.  It was believed that he took care to have him dispatched by Cneius Piso, his lieutenant
in Syria.  This person was afterwards tried for the murder, and would, as was supposed, have
produced his orders, had they not been contained in a private and confidential dispatch.  The
following words therefore were posted up in many places, and frequently shouted in the night:
"Give us back our Germanicus."  This suspicion was afterwards confirmed by the barbarous treatment
of his wife and children.

(225) LIII.  His daughter-in-law Agrippina, after the death of her husband, complaining upon
some occasion with more than ordinary freedom, he took her by the hand, and addressed her in
a Greek verse to this effect: "My dear child, do you think yourself injured, because you are
not empress?"  Nor did he ever vouchsafe to speak to her again.  Upon her refusing once at
supper to taste some fruit which he presented to her, he declined inviting her to his table,
pretending that she in effect charged him with a design to poison her; whereas the whole was
a contrivance of his own.  He was to offer the fruit, and she to be privately cautioned against
eating what would infallibly cause her death.  At last, having her accused of intending to
flee for refuge to the statue of Augustus, or to the army, he banished her to the island of
Pandataria [353].  Upon her reviling him for it, he caused a centurion to beat out one of her
eyes; and when she resolved to starve herself to death, he ordered her mouth to be forced open,
and meat to be crammed down her throat.  But she persisting in her resolution, and dying soon
afterwards, he persecuted her memory with the basest aspersions, and persuaded the senate to
put her birth-day amongst the number of unlucky days in the calendar.  He likewise took credit
for not having caused her to be strangled and her body cast upon the Gemonian Steps, and suffered
a decree of the senate to pass, thanking him for his clemency, and an offering of gold to be
made to Jupiter Capitolinus on the occasion.

LIV.  He had by Germanicus three grandsons, Nero, Drusus, and Caius; and by his son Drusus
one, named Tiberius.  Of these, after the loss of his sons, he commended Nero and Drusus, the
two eldest sons of Germanicus, to the senate; and at their being solemnly introduced into the
forum, distributed money among the people.  But when he found that on entering upon the new
year they were included in the public vows for his own welfare, he told the senate, "that such
honours ought not to be conferred but upon those who had been proved, and were of more advanced
years."  By thus betraying his private feelings towards them, he exposed them to all sorts
of accusations; and after practising many artifices to provoke (226) them to rail at and abuse
him, that he might be furnished with a pretence to destroy them, he charged them with it in
a letter to the senate; at the same time accusing them, in the bitterest terms, of the most
scandalous vices.  Upon their being declared enemies by the senate, he starved them to death;
Nero in the island of Ponza, and Drusus in the vaults of the Palatium.  It is thought by some,
that Nero was driven to a voluntary death by the executioner's shewing him some halters and
hooks, as if he had been sent to him by order of the senate.  Drusus, it is said, was so rabid
with hunger, that he attempted to eat the chaff with which his mattress was stuffed.  The relics
of both were so scattered, that it was with difficulty they were collected.

LV.  Besides his old friends and intimate acquaintance, he required the assistance of twenty
of the most eminent persons in the city, as counsellors in the administration of public affairs.
Out of all this number, scarcely two or three escaped the fury of his savage disposition. All
the rest he destroyed upon one pretence or another; and among them Aelius Sejanus, whose fall
was attended with the ruin of many others.  He had advanced this minister to the highest pitch
of grandeur, not so much from any real regard for him, as that by his base and sinister contrivances
he might ruin the children of Germanicus, and thereby secure the succession to his own grandson
by Drusus.

LVI.  He treated with no greater leniency the Greeks in his family, even those with whom he
was most pleased.  Having asked one Zeno, upon his using some far-fetched phrases, "What uncouth
dialect is that?" he replied, "The Doric."  For this answer he banished him to Cinara [354],
suspecting that he taunted him with his former residence at Rhodes, where the Doric dialect
is spoken.  It being his custom to start questions at supper, arising out of what he had been
reading in the day, and finding that Seleucus, the grammarian, used to inquire of his attendants
what authors he was then studying, and so came prepared for his enquiries--he first turned
him out of his family, and then drove him to the extremity of laying violent hands upon himself.

(227) LVII.  His cruel and sullen temper appeared when he was still a boy; which Theodorus
of Gadara [355], his master in rhetoric, first discovered, and expressed by a very apposite
simile, calling him sometimes, when he chid him, "Mud mixed with blood."  But his disposition
shewed itself still more clearly on his attaining the imperial power, and even in the beginning
of his administration, when he was endeavouring to gain the popular favour, by affecting moderation.
Upon a funeral passing by, a wag called out to the dead man, "Tell Augustus, that the legacies
he bequeathed to the people are not yet paid."  The man being brought before him, he ordered
that he should receive what was due to him, and then be led to execution, that he might deliver
the message to his father himself.  Not long afterwards, when one Pompey, a Roman knight, persisted
in his opposition to something he proposed in the senate, he threatened to put him in prison,
and told him, "Of a Pompey I shall make a Pompeian of you;" by a bitter kind of pun playing
upon the man's name, and the ill-fortune of his party.

