A migration rarely involves a single people even at the start. It becomes contagious either
by example or by the subjection of several neighboring tribes to the same impelling force,
by reason of which all start at or near the same time. We find the Cimbri and Teutons combined
with Celts from the island of Batavia[143] in the first Germanic invasion of the Roman Empire.
Jutes, Saxons and Angles started in close succession for Britain, and the Saxon group included
Frisians.[144] An unavoidable concomitant of great migrations, especially those of nomads,
is their tendency to sweep into the vortex of their movement any people whom they brush on
the way. Both individuals and tribes are thus caught up by the current. The general convergence
of the central German tribes towards the Danube frontier of the Roman Empire during the Marcomannic
War drew in its train the Lombards from the lower Elbe down to the middle Danube and Theiss.[145]
The force of the Lombards invading Italy in 568 included twenty thousand Saxons from Swabia,
Gepidae from the middle Danube, Bulgarians, Slavs from the Russian Ukraine, together with various
tribes from the Alpine district of Noricum and the fluvial plains of Pannonia. Two centuries
later the names of these non-Lombard tribes still survived in certain villages of Italy which
had formed their centers.[146] The army which Attila the Hun brought into Gaul was a motley
crowd, comprising peoples of probable Slav origin from the Russian steppes, Teutonic Ostrogoths
and Gepidae, and numerous German tribes, besides the Huns themselves. When this horde withdrew
after the death of Attila, Gepidae and Ostrogoths settled along the middle Danube, and the
Slavonic contingent along the Alpine courses of the Drave and Save Rivers.[147] The Vandal
migration which in 409 invaded Spain included the Turanian Alans and the German Suevi. The
Alans found a temporary home in Portugal, which they later abandoned to join the Vandal invasion
of North Africa, while the Suevi settled permanently in the northwestern mountains of Spain.
The Vandals occupied in Spain two widely separated districts, one in the mountain region of
Galicia next to the Suevi, and the other in the fertile valley of Andalusia in the south, while
the northeastern part of the peninsula was occupied by intruding Visigoths.[148] Add to these
the original Iberian and Celtic stocks of the peninsula and the Roman strain previously introduced,
and the various elements which have entered into the Spanish people become apparent.[149]

[Sidenote: Cultural modification during migration.]

The absorption of foreign elements is not confined to large groups whose names come down in
history, nor is the ensuing modification one of blood alone. Every land migration or expansion
of a people passes by or through the territories of other peoples; by these it is inevitably
influenced in point of civilization, and from them individuals are absorbed into the wandering
throng by marriage or adoption, or a score of ways. This assimilation of blood and local culture
is facilitated by the fact that the vast majority of historical movements are slow, a leisurely
drift. Even the great Völkerwanderung, which history has shown us generally in the moment of
swift, final descent upon the imperial city, in reality consisted of a succession of advances
with long halts between. The Vandals, whose original seats were probably in central or eastern
Prussia, drifted southward with the general movement of the German barbarians toward the borders
of the Empire late in the second century, and, after the Marcomannic War (175 A.D.), settled
in Dacia north of the lower Danube under the Roman sway. In 271 they were located on the middle
Danube, and sixty years afterwards in Moravia. Later they settled for seventy years in Pannonia
within the Empire, where they assimilated Roman civilization and adopted the Arian form of
Christianity from their Gothic neighbors.[150] In Spain, as we have seen, they occupied Galicia
and Andalusia for a time before passing over into Africa in 429. Here was a migration lasting
two centuries and a half, reaching from the Baltic to the southern shores of the Mediterranean,
starting on the bleak sterile plains of the north amid barbarous neighbors, ending in the sunny
grain fields and rich cities of Roman Africa. The picture which we get of the victorious Vandals
parceling out the estates of Roman nobles, and, from the standpoint of their more liberal faith,
profiting by the dissensions of the two Catholic sects of Africa, shows us a people greatly
modified by their long sweep through the civilized outskirts of the Empire. So it was with
the Lombards and Goths who invaded Italy.

Among primitive tribes, who move in smaller groups and must conform closely to the dictates
of their environment, the modifying effects of people and land through which they pass are
conspicuous. Ratzel describes the gradual withdrawal of a Hottentot people from western Cape
Colony far into the arid interior before the advance of Kaffirs and Europeans by saying: "The
stock and name of the Namaquas wandered northward, acquiring new elements, and in course of
time filling the old mold with new contents."[151] This is the typical result of such primitive
movements. The migration of the Delaware Indians from an early home somewhere northwest of
the Great Lakes to their historical habitat between the Hudson and Potomac Rivers was a slow
progress, which somewhere brought them into contact with maize-growing tribes, and gave them
their start in agriculture.[152] The transit lands through which these great race journeys
pass exercise a modifying effect chiefly through their culture and their peoples, less through
their physical features and climate. For that the stay of the visitants is generally too brief.

[Sidenote: Effect of early maritime migration.]

Even early maritime migrants did not keep their strains pure. The untried navigator sailing
from island to headland, hugging the coast and putting ashore for water, came into contact
with the natives. Cross currents of migration can be traced in Polynesian waters, where certain
islands are nodal points which have given and received of races and culture through centuries
of movement. The original white population of Uruguay differed widely from that of the other
Spanish republics of South America. Its nucleus was a large immigration of Canary Islanders.
These were descendants of Spaniards and the native Guanches of the Canaries, mingled also with
Norman, Flemish and Moorish blood.[153] The Norse on their way to Iceland may have picked up
a Celtic element in the islands north of Scotland; but from the Faroe group onward they found
only empty Iceland and Greenland. This was an exceptional experience. Early navigation, owing
to its limitations, purposely restricted itself to the known. Men voyaged where men had voyaged
before and were to be found. Journeys into the untenanted parts of the world were rare. However,
the probable eastward expansion of the Eskimo along the Arctic rim of North America belongs
in this class, so that this northern folk has suffered no modification from contact with others,
except where Alaska approaches Asia.

[Sidenote: The transit land.]

The land traversed by a migrating horde is not to be pictured as a dead road beneath their
feet, but rather as a wide region of transit and transition, potent to influence them by its
geography and people, and to modify them in the course of their passage. The route which they
follow is a succession of habitats, in which they linger and domicile themselves for a while,
though not long enough to lose wholly the habits of life and thought acquired in their previous
dwelling place. Although nature in many places, by means of valleys, low plains, mountain passes
or oasis lines, points out the way of these race movements, it is safer to think and speak
of this way as a transit land, not as a path or road. Even where the district of migration
has been the sea, as among the Caribs of the Antilles Islands, the Moros of the Philippines,
and the Polynesians of the Pacific, man sends his roots like a water plant down into the restless
element beneath, and reflects its influence in all his thought and activities.

[Sidenote: War as a form of the historical movement.]

Every aggressive historical movement, whether bold migration or forcible extension of the home
territory, involves displacement or passive movement of other peoples (except in those rare
occupations of vacant lands), who in turn are forced to encroach upon the lands of others.
These conditions involve war, which is an important form of the historical movement, contributing
to new social contacts and fusion of racial stocks. Raids and piratical descents are often
the preliminary of great historical movements. They first expand the geographical horizon,
and end in permanent settlements, which involve finally considerable transfers of population,
summoned to strengthen the position of the interloper. Such was the history of the Germanic
invasions of Britain, the Scandinavian settlements on the shores of Iceland, Britain, and France,
and the incursions of Saharan tribes into the Sudanese states. Among pastoral nomads war is
the rule; the tribe, a mobilized nation, is always on a war footing with its neighbors. The
scant supply of wells and pasturage, inadequate in the dry season, involves rivalry and conflict
for their possession as agricultural lands do not. Failure of water or grass is followed by
the decline of the herds, and then by marauding expeditions into the river valleys to supply
the temporary want of food. When population increases beyond the limits of subsistence in the
needy steppes, such raids become the rule and end in the conquest of the more favored lands,
with resulting amalgamation of race and culture.[154]

[Sidenote: Primitive war.]

The wars of savage and pastoral peoples affect the whole tribe. All the able-bodied men are
combatants, and all the women and children constitute the spoils of war in case of defeat.
This fact is important, since the purpose of primitive conflicts is to enslave and pillage,
rather than to acquire land. The result is that a whole district may be laid waste, but when
the devastators withdraw, it is gradually repopulated by bordering tribes, who make new ethnic
combinations. After the destruction of the Eries by the Iroquois in 1655, Ohio was left practically
uninhabited for a hundred and fifty years. Then the Iroquoian Wyandots extended their settlements
into northwestern Ohio from their base in southern Michigan, while the Miami Confederacy along
the southern shore of Lake Michigan pushed their borders into the western part. The Muskingum
Valley in the eastern portion was occupied about 1750 by Delawares from eastern Pennsylvania,
the Scioto by Shawnees, and the northeast corner of the territory by detachments of Iroquois,
chiefly Senecas.[155] The long wars between the Algonquin Indians of the north and the Appalachian
tribes of the south kept the district of Kentucky a No Man's Land, in convenient vacancy for
occupation by the white settlers, when they began the westward movement.[156] [Map page 156.]

[Sidenote: Slavery as form of historical movement.]

