 By the time she returned her kind father-in-law was dead, and her restless
warlike husband was henceforth rarely by her side.  Years afterwards when the Queen died, Edward
seems to have remembered her wifely devotion with remorse, for never did any former English
queen-consort have so magnificent a burial {77} nor so costly a tomb. Two other monuments (which
no longer exist), containing her viscera and her heart, were put up at Lincoln and Blackfriars.
At every stage where the funeral procession rested between Lincolnshire and Westminster the
King raised a memorial cross in his wife's honour.  All have been destroyed save three, but
the last was at one time a conspicuous object in Charing village, and a modern copy of it has
been placed in the station-yard at "Charing Cross."  Eleanor herself bequeathed money towards
the expenses of her funeral, and Edward gave large sums to the three convents, chiefly to Westminster,
in order to provide for anniversary services at his wife's tombs, where wax tapers were always
to be kept burning, and prayers constantly offered to Heaven for the repose of her soul.  Edward's
son and successor was strangely lacking in filial obedience.  With his dying breath the warrior
King, who had hammered the Scots and harassed the Turks, gave orders that his body was to remain
unburied till Scotland was subdued, the flesh boiled, and the bones borne at the head of the
victorious English army.  His heart was to be taken out and confided to a band of knights,
who were to fight for the Holy Sepulchre, carrying the casket in their {78} midst.  These commands
were disobeyed, and the plain tomb, without effigy or monument, is a silent witness to the
second Edward's failure to "keep troth."  The embalmed corpse was buried here soon after the
King's death, but the upper slab remained loose, and for many a long year the cere-cloth was
kept waxed, perhaps with the idea of carrying out the dead sovereign's behests at some future
time.  In any case the cover was left as it was till the eighteenth century, when some antiquaries
were allowed to raise it, and looking in they beheld the body of Longshanks lying there in
royal state, wrapped in the coronation robes, with orb and sceptre in either hand, a linen
cloth concealing the features.  We cannot forgive the wanton destruction which ensued.  Boiling
pitch was poured in, and the lid hermetically sealed after these vandals had satisfied their
curiosity and taken notes of every detail.  Havoc also was wrought to the outside about the
same period, when the canopy was destroyed during a riot which broke out at the patriot Pulteney's
burial in the ambulatory below, and the iron grille, upon which were two little heads of the
King, disappeared at the same time.  The words "Scotorum Malleus" and "Pactum Serva" were painted
by Abbot Feckenham's orders, but may have formed {79} part of the original inscription.  The
most important trophy which the English conqueror brought from Scotland was the stone of Scone,
a reminder now of the union of the two kingdoms, but then a constant source of irritation to
the Scots, who tried in vain to get it back.  The chair which encloses the stone was made in
Edward's time, and has ever since been used as the seat of our sovereigns at their coronations.
Once and once only a man not of royal birth was privileged to receive the insignia of government
seated in the Coronation Chair, when Oliver Cromwell was installed Lord Protector in Westminster
Hall.  The huge sword behind the chair, carried before Edward III. on his warlike expeditions
into France and Scotland, was probably used on the memorable occasion when he entered Calais
in state after the siege, and his wife Philippa begged her stern lord for the lives of the
twelve burgesses who brought him the keys of the captured town.  We turn to the left round
the shrine and approach the despoiled tomb of that good Flemish lady, who endeared herself
to the hearts of her English subjects by her wise and kindly rule during Edward's frequent
absences abroad and in Scotland.  The face, a portrait this time, shows us a homely countenance
with full cheeks and rather prominent eyes, {80} but pleasant withal and full of character.
The design of the whole was by a Flemish artist, but English stone-masons worked on the details,
and a certain John Orchard, the artist of the copper-gilt angels, which formerly adorned the
canopy, and probably also of the figures on the King's tomb, made the little alabaster figures
of Philippa's two children in St. Edmund's Chapel for the sum of twenty shillings.  The white
stone canopy with the wrought-metal tabernacle work and gilt angels was actually removed as
insecure in the eighteenth century.  The thirty alabaster niches, each containing the statuette
of a royal mourner, and the alabaster angels with gilt wings have all gone, except the fragments
of one, which was put together by Sir Gilbert Scott, and is in a safe but dark corner.  No
trace remains of the iron grille which Edward bought for his queen from a bishop's monument
in St. Paul's Cathedral.  The King's own tomb is next to that of his wife: he thus kept the
promise which he made to her as she lay dying, and lies beside her in the "Cloister" at Westminster.
Froissart tells a touching story of the scene between the royal couple, when Philippa held
the hand of the husband who had so often been faithless to her, and asked this, her last boon.
{81} Near her bed stood Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester, the only one of her fourteen
children able to be present at his mother's deathbed; he is buried close to her tomb.  Thomas
was murdered by order of his nephew, Richard II.--who was himself destined to come to an untimely
end at the hands of a relative--and the grave of the victim is not far from Richard's own monument.
We saw in St. Edmund's Chapel the fourteenth-century brass which marks the last resting-place
of the Duke's widow, Eleanor de Bohun, who retired to a nunnery after her husband's tragic
fate.  We have looked at the tombs of Edward III. and of Richard II. from the ambulatory side;
both are of English workmanship.  That of the elder monarch is finer and more elaborate than
the other, which Richard raised in his own lifetime to receive the remains of his beloved first
wife, Anne of Bohemia, and destined for his own corpse.  Edward's effigy is purely a conventional
one, but the long hair and beard have often been pointed out as a mark of his neglected lonely
deathbed.  True enough this once powerful King died alone save for the ministrations of an
old priest, saddened in his last hours by the loss of his heir, the Black Prince.  But his
end was less tragic than that of his successor and grandson {82} twenty years later, over the
details of which a veil of mystery still hangs.  We only know that his cousin, Henry of Bolingbroke,
Duke of Lancaster, usurped the throne, and that the deposed Richard died in prison; his body
was obscurely buried at King's Langley, and re-interred here long afterwards, with the honour
due to a king, by his supplanter's own son, Henry V.

We see here the portrait effigy of the effeminate young King, whose hand used to be clasped
in that of his young foreign bride, but the arms are both gone.  The robes are stamped with
Richard's badges, the rising sun of Crecy and Poictiers, which was his father's favourite emblem,
the broomscods of the Plantagenets, the fleurs-de-lis of France, symbolic of the constant claim
of our sovereigns to the French crown, and many others.  Beneath the canopy are traces of the
two-headed eagle, the arms of Bohemia, and also of the imperial eagle, for Anne was a sister
of Wenceslaus, the good King of Bohemia, and a daughter of the Emperor Charles IV.; at her
feet is the Austrian leopard.  As we look at this royal couple, that fateful day of Anne's
funeral is recalled to our memory, when her bereaved husband in a fit of ungovernable rage
struck one of the powerful {83} nobles, who came late for the ceremony, such a fierce blow
that for the second time in Richard's unfortunate reign the pavement was stained with blood.
On the first occasion a knight, who had taken sanctuary here, was slain by John of Gaunt's
servants.  And in each case the Abbey was placed under an interdict for a time, till by priest
and bell the church was cleansed from pollution.  There is another brass, hidden beneath the
linoleum near Edward the First's tomb, which connects Richard with the Abbey, and marks the
burial of a commoner within the chapel of the kings--the only person not of royal blood ever
interred here.  A storm of popular indignation burst out when Richard commanded the Abbot to
grant a grave for his favourite, John of Waltham, Bishop of Salisbury, within these sacred
precincts, and the King was forced to resort to bribery before he could gain his point.

The circle of kingly tombs, which include those of two small princesses, is completed at the
eastern end by the memorial of Henry V.  The chantry chapel above is apparently in the shape
of the King's initial, but this proves to be a mere coincidence, as the letter H was made after
a different pattern in the fifteenth century.  Henry IV. was {84} taken ill when saying his
prayers before the shrine, and died in the Abbot's withdrawing-room, the Jerusalem Chamber;
but the son erected no tomb here for his father's remains, rather the first act of his reign
after the coronation was, as we have already pointed out, to bring his murdered cousin's body
from King's Langley, and to inter it with royal pomp in the tomb which Richard had prepared
for himself years before.  In the Jerusalem Chamber we shall see the busts of the two Lancastrian
kings. Here is only a bare and headless effigy to recall the victor of Agincourt, and a dilapidated
helmet, saddle, and shield, on the bar above, all of which were carried at Henry's funeral.
Henry's own will provided for the erection of this large memorial, which encroaches on the
eastern part of both Eleanor and Philippa's monuments.  We reach the chantry chapel above his
tomb by stone steps worn by countless pilgrims, who painfully climbed them on their knees when
they came here to pray for the dead hero's soul.  Looking down from this chapel before the
pall covered the shrine we used to see the Confessor's coffin, and can still enjoy the most
striking view that exists of the church from east to west. On either side just below are the
apsidal chapels.  Facing the north {85} ambulatory and forming part of the screen to St. Paul's
Chapel is the monument of Henry's standard-bearer, Lord Robsert, who received this coveted
post as a reward for his valour at Agincourt.  Amongst the now defaced shields round the tomb
ancient students of heraldry believed that they discovered the quarterings of Chaucer's father-in-law,
Sir Payne Roet of Hainault, and Robsert's crest was even identified with his. Inside, the chapel
itself is blocked up by the huge statue of James Watt, one of the inventors of the steam-engine,
but there are many fine old monuments against the walls.  From here we have a good view of
an altar tomb in the centre of the same chapel, the alabaster effigies upon which are in the
costume of the early Tudor period, and represent Sir Giles Daubeney, the friend and Lord Chamberlain
of Henry VII., with his wife Magdalen.  Above them are suspended the banners of the Delavel
family, which are over two hundred years old.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

             *      *      *      *

ST. EDWARD'S SHRINE AND THE CHANTRY CHAPEL OF HENRY V.

In this illustration we see the niches in the shrine, where sick persons used to crouch all
night in order to be cured of their diseases by contact with the saint's coffin, which is above,
covered by the pall. Beyond is the Chantry Chapel of Henry V. with a bar across the top, upon
which are fixed the dead King's helmet, sword, and shield, all of which were carried at his
funeral.  The tomb itself, with its headless and battered oaken effigy, is seen through the
open gate; stone steps, worn by the knees of many pilgrims, ascend the turret to the right
and lead into a little chapel, where now reposes the mummified body of Henry's queen, Katherine
of Valois.  It was buried here by Dean Stanley after it had been unburied for two centuries
and then hidden away in one of the vaults.  From here we see the effigy and tomb of Queen Philippa,
the latter stripped bare of all its original splendour, including the alabaster angels and
gilt statuettes of mourners.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Standing on the south side we are now directly above the tomb of that masterful Countess of
Buckingham, mother of Charles the First's favourite, whose own pompous monument will be found
in Henry VII.'s Chapel.  In the vault {86} beneath lay for more than a century the withered
mummy of a French princess, the coquettish Kate, whom Henry V. courts so ardently in Shakespeare's
play.  Katherine lost her prestige at her son Henry VI.'s Court by her second marriage with
a Welsh gentleman of no rank, but she thus became the ancestress of the great Tudor dynasty,
which was destined to supplant both her royal husband's line, the Lancastrians, and their rivals,
the house of York.  Yet it was in the reign of her own Tudor grandson that Katherine's original
sepulchre in the old Lady Chapel was destroyed, and her embalmed body in its broken wooden
coffin placed by the side of Henry V.'s effigy.  Possibly Henry VII. intended to suitably re-inter
his noble grandame's corpse in his new chapel, but after his death nobody stirred in the matter,
and there the remains lay, a curiosity for all visitors to the Abbey to stare at, till at last
Dean Zachary Pearce buried them under the Countess of Buckingham's tomb.  Dean Stanley removed
the coffin and placed it in this chantry chapel against the east wall, where an altar dedicated
to the Virgin used to stand.  The ancient altar slab, found concealed beneath the step, now
forms the cover of the Queen's tomb.  On the wall behind are the {87} badges of Henry V.  The
antelope and the swan, which he inherited from his mother's family, the de Bohuns, are each
chained to a tree, between them is burning the cresset light, an emblem taken by the young
King at his coronation as a proof of his desire to be "a light and a guide to his people to
follow him in all virtue and honour."  The badges are repeated all over the stone-work inside
and out, while the niches are filled with numerous statues, representing royal personages,
mitred abbots, and saints, notably the patron saints of England and France, St. George and
St. Denis--the latter carries his head in his hand.  Upon the arch over the ambulatory is depicted
Henry's coronation in the Abbey.  His figure armed cap-à-pié is shown on the eastern side,
crossing a raging torrent, while a castle, with troops drawn up in front of it, is carved in
the background.  The shields of England and France, to which kingdom Henry was, as son-in-law
to the French king and by right of conquest, the acknowledged heir, are also prominent.  We
return below the chantry arch and descend into the ambulatory, whence we have a good view of
the carvings alluded to, besides many others.  Before us is a flight of stone steps which leads
directly up to the other royal chapel, the mausoleum {88} of the Tudors and Stuarts.  Beneath
our feet is the family vault of the Royalist historian of the civil wars, Edward Hyde, Earl
of Clarendon, who was closely connected with the Stuarts, and shared the exile of his young
master, afterwards Charles II.  In later days the powerful Lord Chancellor fell from his high
position at Court, and was sentenced to lifelong banishment by that same prince whom he had
served so faithfully in his youth.  Clarendon's daughter married James II., then Duke of York,
and thus by the irony of fate the disgraced favourite was destined to be the grandfather of
two Stuart queens, Mary and Anne.  Here the coronation of King Henry V. is represented above
the arch, and numerous little statuettes of kings, ecclesiastics, saints, and angels are carved
above and below it.  In the spandrels of the arch are the arms of England and France, while
along the cornice are some of the royal badges.  Beneath it are the steps leading up to the
Chapel of Henry VII.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

At the top of the steps a triple portico leads into the centre of Henry VII.'s Chapel; on each
side narrow doorways admit to the north and south aisles.  The arch overhead is most elaborately
carved and decorated with the same badges which we see on the bronze gates, and all over the
inside of the chapel.  Chief amongst these are the Tudor rose, the flower of York and Lancaster
alike, and the portcullis, which was the emblem of Henry's maternal relations, the Beauforts,
who traced their descent from John of Gaunt.  This badge, originally a castle protected by
a portcullis, was a symbol of Henry's undisputed (although not really {89} flawless) title
to the throne, and he added the proud motto "Altera securitas."  A crowned fleur-de-lis is
constantly repeated on the walls, and on the gates the shield of France is to be seen next
to the lions of England; for our English sovereigns continued to assert their right to the
French succession.  The other badges on the gates include the crown on a bush, which recalls
Bosworth Field, when Lord Derby took the golden circlet from the hawthorn bush, where it fell
when Richard was slain, and placed it on his step-son's head.  The daisy root belongs to Derby's
wife and Henry's mother, Lady Margaret, whose tomb we shall see in the south aisle.  The falcon
with a fetter-lock was a badge of Edward IV., which his daughter Elizabeth adopted after her
marriage to the young Tudor king.

We pass through the middle gate and emerge into that beautiful chapel so extravagantly praised
by old writers as the "orbis miraculum," the miracle of the world, so unfairly decried since
by narrow-minded adherents of the Gothic style.  Here, a contrast to the rest of the church,
is pure Perpendicular of the Tudor period.  The stone-work is decorated in every corner, and
the details are elaborately carved, leaving no vacant space anywhere; {90} no less than 130
stone figures, 95 of which remain, contributed to the rich effect of the whole.  Angels and
archangels, saints and martyrs, apostles and evangelists, the hierarchy of heaven and the sainted
ones of earth, all had places on these walls. Above our heads the fan tracery of the stone
roof seems literally to hang from the sky, so delicate and light is the workmanship.  The Cambridge
graduate in our party, and those indefatigable sightseers our American friends, compare it
with King's College Chapel, which was built about this period by the same King's munificence,
and probably by the same architect.  The windows were once all filled with painted glass, only
a few fragments of which, notably the founder's figure at the east end, are left.  The altar
was dedicated to the Virgin, and had upon it her statue made of pure gold, but both were destroyed
in the time of Henry's grandson, Edward VI., by order of the Protector Somerset, when the side
altars were also swept away and the glass broken in a fury of Protestant zeal.  Long afterwards
the tomb of Edward VI. himself, which then took the place of the high altar, was broken in
pieces by the Puritan zealots, who were unaware that they thus desecrated the monument of the
first Protestant king.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

             *      *      *      *

THE CHAPEL OF HENRY VII., LOOKING EAST

This unique and beautiful chapel was built by King Henry VII., and stands at the east end of
the Abbey, raised above the level of the older church. The whole is a marvel of delicate carving
and rich ornament.  We see in the illustration the hanging pendants of the stone roof known
as fan tracery, and the walls are covered with statues, the space between them filled up by
Tudor roses, French fleur-de-lis, and other appropriate decorations.  Behind the altar is the
tomb of the founder himself; it is protected by a finely-worked grille, within which we see
the gilt bronze effigies of Henry and his wife, fashioned by the master hand of Torrigiano,
lying upon an altar tomb of black marble.  Above are the banners of the Knights of the Bath,
which date from the eighteenth century, and at the back of the stalls below are their coats
of arms. George I. reconstructed the Order, and for a brief period afterwards the knights used
to be installed here.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

{91}

The present altar was reconstructed, under Dean Stanley's supervision, from such pieces of
the old Italian pilasters and frieze as could be found; one was actually discovered at Oxford
in the Ashmolean Museum. Upon it stands the cross which was presented by the Ras Makonnen,
Envoy from Abyssinia, as a votive offering for the present King's recovery from his sudden
illness, when the Coronation was postponed in the summer of 1902.  The stalls next claim our
attention, and it must be pointed out that only part of these date from the sixteenth century,
but the ancient seats are easily distinguished from the later ones by their quaintly carved
misereres.  The rest were added when the Order of the Knights of the Bath was reconstituted
by George I. in 1725, and the banners above, as well as the coats of arms at the back of the
top stalls, belong to the Knights.  The Dean was made Chaplain of the Order, a post which he
has held ex officio ever since.  At that time, and for a long period, the installations of
the Knights were held here.  Upon one of the original stalls at the west end is a crowned figure
of the founder, Henry VII., his face turned towards the east.  So familiar has the name of
this chapel become to us, that we are apt to forget that it was dedicated to the {92} Virgin
Mary, and replaced the Early English Lady Chapel, which had stood on the same spot ever since
the beginning of Henry the Third's reign.  Henry VII. first intended to consecrate his new
chapel to the memory of Henry VI., and arrangements were made for removing the saintly King's
bones to Westminster from Windsor, but, owing partly to quarrels between the two convents,
the scheme fell through and was abandoned by the royal founder.  The stone was laid in 1503,
and, although the building was not completed till 1519, before he died Henry had practically
settled every detail with the Abbot as to the endowment.  His wife's body already lay at the
east end, and Henry arranged for his own interment in the same place, and for the memorial
services, which were afterwards to be held in their honour.  Some of the indentures between
the King and Convent can be seen at the Record Office, others are in the custody of the Dean
and Chapter.  Sir Reginald Bray, head of the royal masons, is often spoken of as if he were
the architect, but his death took place soon after the laying of the foundation stone, and
the chapel was not finished for another sixteen years, long after Henry VIII.'s accession,
when the monasteries were tottering to their fall.  Abbot Islip supervised {93} the building,
and it is more than likely that Sir Thomas Lovell, whose bust has lately been placed near Lady
Margaret's tomb, had, as executor to both the King and his mother, a share in designing their
monuments.  In any case, Lovell was a patron of Torrigiano, the famous Italian sculptor, who
was employed to make the beautiful effigies of the King, his wife, and his mother, as well
as the rich altar tombs upon which the figures lie.  A fine bronze grille, which is, like the
gates, of English workmanship, preserves the founder's tomb from injury.  The whole is decorated
with roses and fleurs-de-lis, while upon the screen itself are the Welsh dragon of Cadwallador,
the last British king, from whom the Tudors claimed descent, and the greyhound, a crest belonging
to the Nevilles, who were relatives of Henry's wife. Nearly all the statuettes upon the outside
have been stolen; but within, round the black marble altar tomb, are still intact twelve medallions,
six on either side, each of which encloses two silver-gilt images.  The saints represented
are St. George of England, St. Denis of France, St. Edward and St. Peter, the patrons of the
Abbey, as well as the King's own special guardians.  Amongst these perhaps the most charming
are the burly form of St. Christopher, with {94} the tiny infant Christ upon his shoulder,
and the very graceful figure of St. Barbara with her tower in her hand, who is thus easily
distinguishable from the conventional Mary Magdalene beside whom she stands.  Finely moulded
cherubs, also in gilt brass, support the royal arms, and we may trace the master hand of Michael
Angelo's great rival in these as in all the other accessories. The effigies themselves are
unique specimens of Torrigiano's art, equalled only by his other masterpiece, the recumbent
figure of Lady Margaret in the adjacent aisle.  The King's thin face and strongly marked features
bear a striking resemblance to the ascetic lined countenance of his mother, but are in strong
contrast with those of the youthful wife by his side, whose long flowing hair escapes under
her close head-dress.  In the vacant space to the east, within the grille, an altar used to
stand, where precious relics, which included the leg of St. George, were kept. In the vaults
below, Dean Stanley found the coffins of James I. and of Anne, his Danish queen.  Close at
hand is the altar tomb, with a white marble effigy by Boehm, of the Dean himself; behind it
is the memorial window which he dedicated to his wife, Lady Augusta, whose own portrait is
delineated there {95} as well as various familiar scenes from the life of her famous ancestor,
Robert Bruce, including the well-known story of the spider.  The coronation chair at the extreme
east end of the chapel was made for Mary II., a queen regnant in her own right.  Her husband,
William III., whose claim to the crown was considered equal to his wife's, sat in St. Edward's
chair.  The vault in front of it is now filled up with a miscellaneous collection of bodies,
including some of Charles the Second's illegitimate descendants, whose names were cut upon
the pavement, as were those of the other persons interred in this chapel, by Dean Stanley's
care.  Within this vault once rested some of "the chief men of the Parliament by land and sea,"
notably the regicides Cromwell, Ireton, Bradshaw, a few of Cromwell's relatives, and the famous
Admiral, Robert Blake.  These, as well as all the other persons buried in the Abbey during
the Commonwealth who were in any way connected with the republican party, were disinterred
by order of Charles II., shortly after his restoration, and thrown into a pit in St. Margaret's
churchyard, with the exception, that is, of the three arch offenders, the regicides.