  The American eagle, with unwearied flight,
  Soared upward and upward, till he soared out of sight.

It was at the old field school "exhibition" that the fiddle and the bow immortalized themselves.
When the frowning old teacher advanced on the stage and nodded for silence, instantly there
was silence in the vast assembly; and when the corps of country fiddlers, "one of which I was
often whom," seated on the stage, hoisted the black flag, and rushed into the dreadful charge
on "Old Dan Tucker," or "Arkansas Traveller," the spectacle was sublime. Their heads swung
time; their bodies rocked time; their feet patted time; the muscles of their faces twitched
time; their eyes winked time; their teeth ground time. The whizzing bows and screaming fiddles
electrified the audience who cheered at every brilliant turn in the charge of the fiddlers.
The good women laughed for joy; the men winked at each other and popped their fists; it was
like the charge of the Old Guard at Waterloo, or a battle with a den of snakes. Upon the completion
of the grand overture of the fiddlers the brilliant programme of the "exhibition," which usually
lasted all day, opened with "Mary had a little lamb;" and it gathered fury until it reached
Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty or give me death!!!" The programme was interspersed with compositions
by the girls, from the simple subject of "flowers," including "blessings brighten as they take
their flight," up to "every cloud has a silver lining;" and it was interlarded with frequent
tunes by the fiddlers from early morn till close of day.

Did you never hear the juvenile orator of the old field school speak? He was not dressed like
a United States Senator; but he was dressed with a view to disrobing for bed, and completing
his morning toilet instantly; both of which he performed during the acts of ascending and descending
the stairs. His uniform was very simple. It consisted of one pair of breeches rolled up to
the knees, with one patch on the "western hemisphere," one little shirt with one button at
the top, one "gallus," and one invalid straw hat. His straw hat stood guard over his place
on the bench, while he was delivering his great speech at the "exhibition." With great dignity
and eclat, the old teacher advanced on the stage and introduced him to the expectant audience,
and he came forward like a cyclone.

"The boy stood on the burnin' deck whence all but him had fled----The flames that lit the battle's
wreck shown 'round him o'er the dead, yet beautiful and bright he stood----the boy stood on
the burnin' deck----and he wuz the bravest boy that ever wuz. His father told him to keep a-stan'in'
there till he told him to git off'n there, and the boy he jist kep' a stan'in' there----and
fast the flames rolled on----The old man went down stairs in the ship to see about sump'n,
an' he got killed down there, an' the boy he didn't know it, an' he jist kept a stan'in' there----an'
fast the flames rolled on. He cried aloud: "say father, say, if yit my task is done," but his
father wuz dead an' couldn't hear 'im, an' the boy he jist kep' a stan'in' there----an' fast
the flames rolled on.----They caught like flag banners in the sky, an' at last the ol' biler
busted, an' the boy he went up!!!!!!!!"

At the close of this great speech the fiddle fainted as dead as a herring.

THE QUILTING AND THE OLD VIRGINIA REEL.

The old fiddler took a fresh chew of long, green tobacco, and rosined his bow. He glided off
into "Hop light ladies, your cake's all dough," and then I heard the watch dog's honest bark.
I heard the guinea's merry "pot-rack." I heard a cock crow. I heard the din of happy voices
in the "big house" and the sizz and songs of boiling kettles in the kitchen. It was an old
time quilting--the May-day of the glorious ginger cake and cider era of the American Republic;
and the needle was mightier than the sword. The pen of Jefferson announced to the world, the
birth of the child of the ages; the sword of Washington defended it in its cradle, but it would
have perished there had it not been for the brave women of that day who plied the needle and
made the quilts that warmed it, and who nursed it and rocked it through the perils of its infancy,
into the strength of a giant. The quilt was attached to a quadrangular frame suspended from
the ceiling; and the good women sat around it and quilted the live-long day, and were courted
by the swains between stitches. At sunset the quilt was always finished; a cat was thrown into
the center of it, and the happy maiden nearest to whom the escaping "kitty-puss" passed was
sure to be the first to marry.

Then followed the groaning supper table, surrounded by giggling girls, bashful young men and
gossipy old matrons who monopolized the conversation. There was a warm and animated discussion
among the old ladies as to what was the most delightful product of the garden. One old lady
said, that so "fur" as she was "consarned," she preferred the "per-turnip"--another preferred
the "pertater"--another the "cow-cumber," and still another voted "ingern" king. But suddenly
a wise looking old dame raised her spectacles and settled the whole question by observing:
"Ah, ladies, you may talk about yer per-turnips, and your pertaters, and your passnips and
other gyardin sass, but the sweetest wedgetable that ever melted on these ol' gums o' mine
is the 'possum."

At length the feast was ended, the old folks departed and the fun and frolic began in earnest
at the quilting. Old uncle "Ephraham" was an old darkey in the neighborhood, distinguished
for calling the figures for all the dances, for miles and miles around. He was a tall, raw-boned,
angular old darkey with a very bald head, and a great deal of white in his eyes. He had thick,
heavy lips and a very flat nose. I will tell you a little story of uncle "Ephraham." He lived
alone in his cabin, as many of the old time darkeys lived, and his 'possum dog lived with him.
One evening old uncle "Ephraham" came home from his labors and took his 'possum dog into the
woods and soon caught a fine, large, fat 'possum. He brought him home and dressed him; and
then he slipped into his master's garden and stole some fine, large, fat sweet potatoes--("Master's
nigger, Master's taters,") and he washed the potatoes and split them and piled them in the
oven around the 'possum. He set the oven on the red hot coals and put the lid on, and covered
it with red hot coals, and then sat down in the corner and nodded and breathed the sweet aroma
of the baking 'possum, till it was done. Then he set it out into the middle of the floor, and
took the lid off, and sat down by the smoking 'possum and soliloquized: "Dat's de fines' job
ob bakin' 'possum I evah has done in my life, but dat 'possum's too hot to eat yit. I believes
I'll jis lay down heah by 'im an' take a nap while he's coolin', an' maybe I'll dream about
eat'n 'im, an' den I'll git up an' eat 'im, an' I'll git de good uv dat 'possum boaf times
dat-a-way." So he lay down on the floor, and in a moment he was sleeping as none but the old
time darkey could sleep, as sweetly as a babe in its mother's arms. Old Cye was another old
darkey in the neighborhood, prowling around. He poked his head in at "Ephraham's" door ajar,
and took in the whole situation at a glance. Cye merely remarked to himself: "I loves 'possum
myself." And he slipped in on his tip-toes and picked up the 'possum and ate him from tip to
tail, and piled the bones down by sleeping "Ephraham;" he ate the sweet potatoes and piled
the hulls down by the bones; then he reached into the oven and got his hand full of 'possum
grease and rubbed it on "Ephraham's" lips and cheeks and chin, and then folded his tent and
silently stole away. At length "Ephraham" awoke--"Sho' nuf, sho' nuf--jist as I expected; I
dreampt about eat'n dat 'possum an' it wuz de sweetest dream I evah has had yit." He looked
around, but empty was the oven--"'possum gone." "Sho'ly to de Lo'd," said "Ephraham," "I nuvvah
eat dat 'possum while I wuz a dreamin' about eat'n 'im." He poked his tongue out--"Yes, dat's
'possum grease sho,--I s'pose I eat dat 'possum while I wuz a dreamin' about eat'n 'im, but
ef I did eat 'im, he sets lighter on my constitution an' has less influence wid me dan any
'possum I evah has eat in my bo'n days."

Old uncle "Ephraham" was present at the country dance in all his glory. He was attired in his
master's old claw-hammer coat, a very buff vest, a high standing collar the corners of which
stood out six inches from his face, striped pantaloons that fitted as tightly as a kid glove,
and he wore number fourteen shoes. He looked as though he were born to call the figures of
the dance. The fiddler was a young man with long legs, a curving back, and a neck of the crane
fashion, embellished with an Adam's apple which made him look as though he had made an unsuccessful
effort to swallow his own head. But he was a very important personage at the dance. With great
dignity he unwound his bandana handkerchief from his old fiddle and proceeded to tune for the fray.

Did you never hear a country fiddler tune his fiddle? He tuned, and he tuned, and he tuned.
He tuned for fifteen minutes, and it was like a melodious frog pond during a shower of rain.

At length uncle "Ephraham" shouted: "Git yo' pardners for a cow-tillion."

The fiddler struck an attitude, and after countless yelps from his eager strings, he glided
off into that sweet old Southern air of "Old Uncle Ned," as though he were mauling rails or
feeding a threshing machine. Uncle "Ephraham" sang the chorus with the fiddle before he began
to call the figures of the dance:

  "Lay down de shovel an' de hoe--hoe--hoe, hang up de fiddle an'
           de bow,
   For dar's no mo' work for poor ol' Ned--he's gone whar de good
           niggahs go."

Then, drawing himself up to his full height, he began!

About this time an angry lad who had been jilted by his sweetheart, shied a fresh egg from
without; it struck "Ephraham" square between the eyes and broke and landed on his upper lip.
Uncle "Ephraham" yelled: "Stop de music--stop de dance--let de whole circumstances of dis occasion
come to a stan' still till I finds out who it is a scram'lin eggs aroun' heah."

And then the dancing subsided for the candy-pulling.

THE CANDY PULLING

The sugar was boiling in the kettles, and while it boiled the boys and girls played "snap,"
and "eleven hand," and "thimble," and "blindfold," and another old play which some of our older
people will remember:

  "Oh! Sister Phoebe, how merry were we,
   When we sat under the juniper tree--
   The juniper tree-I-O."

And when the sugar had boiled down into candy they emptied it into greased saucers, or as the
mountain folks called them, "greased sassers," and set it out to cool; and when it had cooled
each boy and girl took a saucer; and they pulled the taffy out and patted it and rolled it
till it hung well together; and then they pulled it out a foot long; they pulled it out a yard
long; and they doubled it back, and pulled it out; and when it began to look like gold the
sweethearts paired off and consolidated their taffy and pulled against each other. They pulled
it out and doubled it back, and looped it over, and pulled it out; and sometimes a peachblow
cheek touched a bronzed one; and sometimes a sweet little voice spluttered out; "you Jack;"
and there was a suspicious smack like a cow pulling her foot out of stiff mud. They pulled
the candy and laughed and frolicked; the girls got taffy on their hair--the boys got taffy
on their chins; the girls got taffy on their waists--the boys got taffy on their coat sleeves.
They pulled it till it was as bright as a moonbeam, and then they platted it and coiled it
into fantastic shapes and set it out in the crisp air to cool. Then the courting in earnest
began. They did not court then as the young folks court now. The young man led his sweetheart
back into a dark corner and sat down by her, and held her hand for an hour, and never said
a word. But it resulted next year in more cabins on the hillsides and in the hollows; and in
the years that followed the cabins were full of candy-haired children who grew up into a race
of the best, the bravest, and the noblest people the sun in heaven ever shone upon.

In the bright, bright hereafter, when all the joys of all the ages are gathered up and condensed
into globules of transcendent ecstacy, I doubt whether there will be anything half so sweet
as were the candy-smeared, ruby lips of the country maidens to the jeans-jacketed swains who
tasted them at the candy-pulling in the happy long ago.

(Sung by Gov. Taylor to air of "Down on the Farm.")

  In the happy long ago,
  When I used to draw the bow,
  At the old log cabin hearthstone all aglow,
  Oh! the fiddle laughed and sung,
  And the puncheons fairly rung,
  With the clatter of the shoe soles long ago.

  Oh! the merry swings and whirls
  Of the happy boys and girls,
  In the good old time cotillion long ago!
  Oh! they danced the highland fling,
  And they cut the pigeon wing,
  To the music of the fiddle and the bow.

  But the mischief and the mirth,
  And the frolics 'round the hearth,
  And the flitting of the shadows to and fro,
  Like a dream have passed away--
  Now I'm growing old and gray,
  And I'll soon hang up the fiddle and the bow.

  When a few more notes I've made,
  When a few more tunes I've played,
  I'll be sleeping where the snowy daises grow.
  But my griefs will all be o'er
  When I reach the happy shore,
  Where I'll greet the friends who loved me long ago.

Oh! how sweet, how precious to us all are the memories of the happy long ago!

THE BANQUET.

Let us leave the "egg flip" of the country dance, and take a bowl of egg-nog at the banquet.
It was a modern banquet for men only. Music flowed; wine sparkled; the night was far spent--it
was in the wee sma' hours. The banquet was given by Col. Punk who was the promoter of a town
boom, and who had persuaded the banqueters that "there were millions in it." He had purchased
some old sedge fields on the outskirts of creation, from an old squatter on the domain of Dixie,
at three dollars an acre; and had stocked them at three hundred dollars an acre. The old squatter
was a partner with the Colonel, and with his part of the boodle nicely done up in his wallet,
was present with bouyant hopes and feelings high.

The whole banquet was drunk (as banquets usually are), and the principal stockholders finally
succumbed to the music of "Old Kentucky Bourbon," and sank to sleep under the table. The last
toast on the programme was announced. It was a wonderful toast--"Our mineral resources:" The
old squatter rose in his glory, about three o'clock in the morning, to respond to this toast,
and thus he responded:

