He had no doubt there would be a ceremony--all the Whipples arriving in their own Sunday clothes,
maybe the preacher coming with them; and they would sit silently in the parlour the way they
did at the Finkboner house, and maybe the preacher would talk, and maybe they would sing or
pray or something, and then they would take Merle away. He was not to be blamed for this happily
inaccurate picture; he was justified by the behaviour of Winona and her mother. And he was
not going to be there! He wouldn't exactly run away; he felt a morbid wish to watch the thing
if he could be apart from it; but he was going to be apart. He remembered too well the scene
at the Finkboner house--and the smell of tuberoses. Winona had unaccustomed flowers in the
parlour now--not tuberoses, but almost as bad. Until a quarter to three he expertly shuffled
and dawdled and evaded. Then Winona took a stand with him.

"Wilbur Cowan, go at once and dress yourself properly! Do you expect to appear before the Whipples
that way?"

He vanished in a flurry of seeming obedience. He went openly through the front door of the
little house into the side yard, but paused not until he reached its back door, where he stood
waiting. When he guessed he had been there fifteen minutes he prepared to change his lurking
place. Winona would be coming for him. He stepped out and looked round the corner of the little
house, feeling inconsequently the thrill of a scout among hostile red Indians as described
in a favoured romance.

The lawn between the little house and the big house was free of searchers. He drew a long breath
and made a swift dash to further obscurity in the lee of the Penniman woodshed. He skirted
the end of this structure and peered about its corner, estimating the distance to the side
door. But this was risky; it would bring him in view of a kitchen window whence some busybody
might observe him. But there was an open window above him giving entrance to the woodshed.
He leaped to catch its sill and clambered up to look in. The woodshed was vacant of Pennimans,
and its shadowy silence promised security. He dropped from the window ledge. There was no floor
beneath, so that the drop was greater than he had counted on. He fell among loose kindling
wood with more noise than he would have desired, quickly rose, stumbled in the dusk against
a bucket half filled with whitewash, and sprawled again into a pile of soft coal.

"Gee, gosh!" he muttered, heartily, as he rose a second time.

Both the well-spread pallor of the whitewash and the sable sprinkling of coal dust put him
beyond any chance of a felicitous public appearance. But he was safe in a dusky corner. He
remained there, breathing heavily. At last he heard Winona call him from the Penniman porch.
Twice she called; then he knew she would be crossing to the little house to know what detained
him. He heard her call again--knew that she would be searching the four rooms over there. She
wouldn't think of the woodshed. He sat there a long while, steadily regarding the closed screen
door that led to the kitchen, ready to mingle deceptively with the coal should any one appear.

