BY WATER
                   TO THE
            COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION

                     BY
            JOHANNA S. WISTHALER.

                    1894

"Travel is the great source of true wisdom."
                             --Bearensfield

To my amiable traveling companions,

Mr. S.R. James and family,

      and

Miss Sarah E. Campbell,

this volume is affectionately inscribed

PREFACE

It has been the aim of the author: to combine a detailed narrative of her trip by water to
the White City with a faithful description of the ever memorable Columbian Exposition as far
as possible consistent with the scope of this work. Every opportunity has been embraced by
the writer to incorporate the historical events, scientific facts, and natural phenomena most
appropriate to the subject.

The author also acknowledges her indebtedness to the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway
Co. as well as her obligations to the Winters Art Litho Co. in Chicago. She wishes to express
her gratitude to the first-mentioned corporation for having presented her with a map illustrative
of the route; thus enabling the reader to trace the numerous towns and cities--on the Erie
Canal and three Great Lakes--whose history and attractions have been depicted in this book.

The Lake Shore Route--selected by the Government to run the famous Fast Mail Trains--is the
only double track line between Chicago, Cleveland, Buffalo, New York, and Boston.--During the
existence of the White City, the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Co. placed in service
special trains for the purpose of facilitating railway transportation between the eastern cities
and the "Queen of the West." The "Exposition Flyer," which accomplished nearly 1,000 miles
in twenty hours from Chicago to New York, an average of about fifty miles per hour, was certainly
one of the fastest trains in the World.

To the aid of the Winters Art Litho Co. the author owes her capability of furnishing this volume
with a novel illustration of the World's Fair.--A gold medal was awarded to this firm for the
excellence in their water color fac-simile reproductions and advancement in legitimate lithography.
The credit of improvements in materially reducing the number of printings, and still maintaining
excellence in results, was conceded to them by the Judges.--This company kindly permitted the
author to use their copyright of the revised and most correct Bird's Eye View of the Exposition
Grounds extant, which gives the readers a very adequate conception of that marvelous creation
that--while existing only for such a brief period--has accomplished its mission in the highest
degree, and has opened a new era in the annals of modern progress.

SCHENECTADY, N.Y., December, 1893.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER I Voyage on the Erie Canal
        Departure from Schenectady, N Y
        Amsterdam, Canajoharie, Little Falls
        Utica, Rome, Syracuse, Lyons
        Palmyra, Rochester, Lockport

CHAPTER II Sojourn in Buffalo and Visit to Niagara falls.
        Buffalo Harbor
        City of Buffalo
        Mill's Dry Dock
        Niagara Falls, American Horseshoe and Central Falls

CHAPTER III Voyage on Three Great Lakes
   Lake Erie
        Dunkirk, Erie, Conneaut
        Cleveland
        Amherstburg
    Detroit River
        City of Detroit
    Lake St Clair
    River St Clair
        Port Huron, Sarnia
   Lake Huron
        Sand Beach Beacon Saginaw Bay, Tawas City, Alpena
        Rock-bound on Gull Island Ledge
        False Presqu'ile, Cheboygan
        Straits of Mackinaw, Mackinaw Island
    Lake Michigan
        Beaver Island, Northport
        Frankfort, Manistee, Muskegon
        South Haven, Life Saving Service
        Michigan City, White City

