Jimmie was much exicted by this dispute. The only trouble was that he found himself in agreement
with both sides, and with an impulse to applaud both sides. And also he applauded the next
speaker, young Emil Forster, a pale, slender, and fair-haired youth, a designer in the carpet-factory.
Emil was one who seldom raised his voice in the meetings, but when he did, he was heard with
attention, for he was a student and a thinker; he played the flute, and his father, also a
member of the local, played the clarinet, so the pair were invaluable on "social evenings".
In his gentle, dispassionate voice he explained how it was not easy for people in America to
understand the dilemma of the German Socialists in the present crisis. We must remember that
the Germans were fighting, not merely England and France, but Russia; and Russia was a huge,
half-civilized land, under perhaps the most cruel government in the world. How would Americans
feel if up in Canada there were three hundred millions of people, ignorant, enslaved, and being
drilled in huge armies?

All right, retorted Dr. Service. But then why did not the Germans fight Russia, and let France
and Belgium alone?

Because, answered Emil, the French would not permit that. We in America thought of France as
a republic, but we must remember that it was a capitalist republic, a nation ruled by bankers;
and these bankers had formed an alliance with Russia, the sole possible aim of which was the
destruction of Germany. France had loaned something like four billions of dollars to Russia.

And then Schneider leaped up. Yes, and it was that money which had provided the cannon and
shells that were now being used in laying waste East Prussia, the land of Schneider's birth!

II

The temper of both sides was rising higher and higher, and the neutrals made efforts to calm
the dispute. Comrade Stankewitz, Jimmie's cigar-store friend, cried out in his shrill eager
voice: Vy did we vant to git mixed up vit them European fights? Didn't we know vat bankers
and capitalists vere? Vat difference did it make to any vorking man vether he vas robbed from
Paris or Berlin? "Sure, I know," said Stankewitz, "I vorked in both them cities, and I vas
every bit so hungry under Rothschild as I vas under the Kaiser."

Then Comrade Gerrity, organizer of the local, took his turn. Whatever they did, said Gerrity,
they must keep their neutrality in this war; the one hope of the world just now was in the
Socialist movement--that it would preserve the international spirit, and point a war-torn world
back to peace. Especially just now in Local Leesville they must keep their heads, for they
were beginning the most important move in their history, the establishment of a weekly paper.
Nothing must get in the way of that!

Yes, said Comrade Service, but they would have to determine the policy of the paper, would
they not? Were they going to protest against injustice at home, and pay no attention to the
most flagrant act of international injustice in the history of the world? Was a working man's
paper to say nothing against the enslavement of the working men of Europe by the Kaiser and
his militarist crew? He, Dr. Service, would wash his hands of such a paper.

And then the members of the local gazed at one another in dismay. Every man and woman of them
knew that the prosperous doctor had headed the list of subscribers for the soon-to-be-born
Leesville Worker with the sum of five hundred dollars. The thought of losing this munificent
contribution brought consternation even to the Germans!

But there was one member of the local whom no menace ever daunted. He rose up now--lean, sallow
almost to greenness, with black hair falling into his eyes, and a cough that racked him at
every other sentence. Bill Murray was his name; "Wild Bill", the papers called him. The red
card he carried had been initialled by the secretaires of some thirty locals all over the country.
He had lost a couple of toes under a tractor-plough in Kansas, and half a hand in a tin-plate
mill in Alleghany County; he had been clubbed insensible in a strike in Chicago, and tarred
and feathered in a free speech fight in San Diego. And now he told the members of Local Leesville
what he thought of those tea-party revolutionists who pandered to the respectability of a church-ridden
community. "Wild Bill" had watched the discussions over "Section Six", the provision in the
constitution of the party against sabotage and violence; the very same persons who had been
enthusiastic for that bit of middle-class fakery were now trying to line up the local for the
defence of the British sea-power! What the hell difference did it make to any working man whether
or not the Kaiser got a railroad to Bagdad? Of course, if a man had been to school in Britain,
and had a British wife, and felt himself a British gentleman--you could feel the shudder that
went through the gathering, for everyone knew that this was Dr. Service--all right, let that
man take the first ship across the ocean and enlist; but let him not try to turn an American
Socialist local into a recruiting-agency for British landlords and aristocrats.

This brought to his feet Comrade Norwood, the young lawyer who had helped to put through "Section
Six" in the National Convention of the party. If there were people so keen against this Section,
why couldn't they get out of the party and form an organization of their own?

"Because," answered Murray, "we prefer sabotage to striking!"

"In other words," continued Norwood, "you stay in the local, and by a campaign of sneering
and personalities you drive your opponents out!"

"This is the first meeting for some months that we have had the pleasure of seeing Comrade
Norwood," said "Wild Bill", with venomous placidity. "Perhaps he knew that we were to be asked
to raise a regiment for Kitchener!"

And then again Comrade Stankewitz was on his feet, with distress in his thin, eager face. "Comrades,
all this vill not get us anyvere! There is but vun question ve have to answer, are ve internationalists,
or are ve not?"

"It seems to me," continued Norwood, "the question is, are we anti-nationalists?"

"All right!" shrilled the little Jew. "I vill leave it so--I am an anti-nationalist! Such must
all Socialists be!"

"But I don't understand it so," declared the young lawyer. "It is easy for some who belong
to a race which has not had a country for two thousand years--"

"And who's dealing in personalities now?" sneered "Wild Bill".

III

So matters went in Local Leesville. The upshot of the debate was that Comrade Dr. Service declared
that he washed his hands of the Socialist Party from that time on. And the Comrade Doctor buttoned
his handsome black coat over his stately chest and stalked out of the room. The greater part
of the remainder of that meeting was devoted to a discussion of him and his personality and
his influence in the local. He was no Socialist at all, declared Schneider, he was an English
aristocrat, or the next thing to it--his wife had two brothers in the British Expeditionary
Force, and a nephew already enlisted in the Territorials, and a visiting cousin on the point
of setting out for Canada, as the quickest way of getting into the mix-up. But in spite of
all these damaging circumstances, the local was not disposed to give up its most generous supporter,
and Comrade Gerrity, the organizer, and Comrade Goldstein of the Ypsels, were constituted a
committee to go and plead with him and try to bring him back into the fold.

As for Jimmie Higgins, his problem was not so complicated. He had no relatives anywhere that
he knew of; and if he had any "country", the country had failed to make him aware of the fact.
The first thing the "country" had done for him was to put him into the hands of a negro woman
who fed him gruel and water and gave him no blanket in winter. To Jimmie this country was an
aggregation of owners and bosses, who made you sweat hard for your wages, and sent the police
to club you if you made any kick. A soldier Jimmie thought of as a fellow who came to help
the police when they got hard pushed. This soldier walked with his chest out and his nose in
the air, and Jimmie referred to him as a "tin willie", and summed him up as a traitor to the
working-class.

And so it was easy for our little machinist to agree with the Roumanian Jewish cigar-seller
in calling himself an "anti- nationalist". It was easy for him to laugh and applaud when "Wild
Bill" demanded what the hell difference it made to any working man whether or not the Kaiser
got a railroad to Bagdad. He did not thrill in the least over the story of the British Army
falling back step by step across France, and holding ten times their number of invaders. The
papers called this "heroism"; but to Jimmie it was a lot of poor fools who had had a flag waved
in their eyes, and had sold themselves for a shilling to the landlords of their country. In
one of the Socialist papers that Jimmie read, there appeared every week a series of comic pictures
in which the working man was figured as a guileless fool by the name of "Henry Dubb". Poor
Henry always believed what he was told, and at the end of each adventure he got a thump on
the top of his nut which caused stars to sprout over the page. And of the many adventures of
Henry Dubb, the most absurd were when he got himself into a uniform. Jimmie would cut these
pictures out and pass them round in the shop, and among his neighbours in the row of tenement-shacks
where he lived.

Nor did it make much difference in Jimmie's feelings when he read of German atrocities. To
begin with, he did not believe in them; they were just a part of the poison-gas of war. When
men were willing to stab one another with bayonets, and to blow one another to pieces with
bombs, they would be willing to lie about one another, you might be sure; the governments would
lie deliberately, as one of the ways of making the soldiers fight harder. What? argued Jimmie:
tell him that Germans were a lot of savages? When he lived in a city with hundreds of them,
and met them all the time at the local?

Here, for instance, was the Forster family; where would you find a kinder lot of people? They
were much above Jimmie in social standing--they owned their own house and had whole shelves
full of books, and a pile of music as high as yourself; but recently Jimmie had stopped on
a Socialist errand, and they had invited him in to supper, and there was a thin, worn, sweet-faced
little woman, and four growing daughters--nice, gentle, quiet girls--and two sons younger than
Emil; they had a pot-roast of beef, and a big dish of steaming potatoes, and another of sauerkraut,
and some queer pudding that Jimmie had never heard of; and then they had music--they were fairly
dippy on music, that family, they would play all night if you would listen, old Hermann Forster
with his stout, black-bearded face turned up as if he were seeing Heaven. And you wanted Jimmie
to believe that a man like that would carry a baby on a bayonet, or rape a girl and then cut
off her hands!

Or there was Comrade Meissner, a neighbour of Jimmie's, a friendly little chatter-box of a
man who was foreman-in-charge of a dozen women from as many different races of the earth, packing
bottles in the glass-works. The tears would come into Meissner's pale blue eyes when he told
how he was made to drive these women, sick, or in the family way, or whatever it might be.
And remember, it was an American superintendent and an American owner who gave Meissner his
orders--not a German! The little man could not quit his job, because he had a brood of children
and a wife with something the matter with her--nobody could tell what it was, but she took
all kinds of patent medicines, which kept the family poor. Sometimes Lizzie Higgins would go
over to see her, and the two would sit and exchange ideas about ailments and the prices of
food; and meantime Meissner would come over to where Jimmie was minding the Jimmie babies,
and the two would puff their cobs and discuss the disputes between the "politicians" and the
"direct actionists" in the local. And you wanted Jimmie to believe that men like Meissner were
standing old Belgian women against the walls of churches and shooting them full of bullets!

IV

But as the weeks passed, the evidence of atrocities began to pile in, and so Jimmie Higgins
was driven to a second line of defence. Well, maybe so, but then all the armies were alike.
Somebody told Jimmie the saying of a famous general, that war was hell; and Jimmie took to
this--it was exactly what he wanted to believe! War was a return to savagery, and the worse
it became, the better Jimmie's argument went. He was not interested in men's efforts to improve
war, by agreeing that they would kill in this way but not in that way, they would kill this
kind of people but not that kind.

These ideas Jimmie got from his fellow members in the local, and from the Socialist papers
which came each week and from the many speakers he heard. These speakers were men and women
of burning sincerity and with a definite and entirely logical point of view. Whether they talked
about war, crime, prostitution, political corruption, or any other social evil, what they wanted
was to tear down the old ramshackle structure, and to put in its place something new and intelligent.
You might possibly bring them to admit slight differences between capitalist governments but
when it came to a practical issue, to an action you found that to these people all governments
were alike--and never so much alike as in war-time!

Nor was there ever such need for Socialist protest! Very quickly it became apparent that it
was not going to be an easy matter for America to keep out of this world-vortex. Because American
working men did not get a living wage, and could not buy what they produced, there was a surplus
product which had to be sold abroad; so the business of American manufacturers depended upon
foreign markets --and here suddenly were all the principal trading nations of the world plunging
in to buy all the American products they could, and to keep their enemies from buying any at all.

A woman speaker came to Leesville a shrewd little body with a sharp tongue, who had these disputes
figured out, and gave them in dialogue, as in a play. Kaiser Bill says, "I want cotton" John
Bull says, "You shan't have it." Uncle Sam says, "But he has a right to have it. Get out of
the way, John Bull." But John Bull says, "I will hold up your ships and take them into my ports."
Uncle Sam says, "No, no! Don't do that!" But John Bull does it. And then the Kaiser says, "What
sort of a fellow are you to let John Bull steal your ships? Are you a coward, or are you secretly
a friend of this old villain? Uncle Sam says, "John Bull, give me my German mail and my German
newspapers, at least. But John Bull answers, "You've got a lot of German spies in your country--that's
why I can't let you have your mail. You can't have German papers because the Kaiser fills them
full of lies about me." And the Kaiser says, "If John Bull won't let me have my cotton and
my meat and all the rest of it, why don't you stop sending anything to him?" He waits a while,
and then he says, "If you won't stop sending things to that old villain, I'll sink the ships,
that's all." And Uncle Sam cries, "But that's against the law!" "Whose law?" says the Kaiser.
"What sort of a law is it that works only one way?" "But there are Americans on those ships!"
cries Uncle Sam. "Well, keep them off the ships!" answers the Kaiser. "Keep them off till John
Bull obeys the law."

Put in this way the situation was easy for any Jimmie Higgins to understand; and month by month,
as the debate continued, Jimmie's own point of view became clearer. He was not interested in
sending cotton to England, and still less in sending meat. He thought he was lucky if he had
a bit of meat twice a week himself, and it was plain enough to him that if the fellows who
owned the meat were not allowed to ship it abroad, they might sell it in America at a price
that a working man could pay. Nor was that just greediness on Jimmie's part; he was perfectly
willing to go without meat where an ideal was involved--look at the time and money and energy
he gave to Socialism! The point was that by sending goods to Europe, you helped to keep up
the fighting; whereas, if you quit, the fools must come to their senses. So the Jimmie Higginses
worked out their campaign-slogan: "Starve the War and Feed America!"

V

In the third month of the war, disturbing rumours began to run about Leesville. Old Abel Granitch
had taken on a contract with the Belgian government, and the Empire Machine Shops were going
to make shells. Nothing appeared about this in the local papers, but everybody claimed to have
first-hand knowledge, and although no two people told the same story, there must be some basis
of truth in them all. And then, one day, to Jimmie's consternation, he heard from Lizzie that
the agent of the landlord had called and served notice that they had three days to vacate the
premises. Old man Granitch had bought the land, and the Shops were to build out that way. Jimmie
could hardly credit his ears, for he was six city blocks from the nearest part of the Shops;
but it was true, so everyone declared; all that land had been bought up, and half a thousand
families, children and old people, and sick people, men on their death-beds and women in child-birth--all
had three days in which to move themselves to new quarters.

Let anyone imagine the confusion, the babel of tongues, the women on their porches calling
to one another, asking and giving advice! The denunciations and the scoldings and the threats
to resort to law! The raids upon landlords, and how the prices went up! Jimmie hurried off
to Comrade Meissner, who had bought a house and was paying instalments on it; Meissner, being
a Socialist, did not try to fleece him, but was glad to have help in making his payments. There
were no partitions in the garret which Jimmie rented, but they would hang curtains and make
do somehow, and Lizzie would use Mrs. Meissner's stove until they could get something fixed
upstairs. And then to the corner grocery, to borrow a hand-cart and get started at moving the
furniture; for to-morrow everybody would be moving, and you would not be able to get anything
on wheels for love or money. Until after midnight Jimmie and Meissner worked at transporting
babies and bedding and saucepans and chairs and chicken-coops piled on the hand-cart.

And next morning at the shop, more excitement! It was four years now that Jimmie had been in
the employ of old man Granitch, and in all that time he had done but one thing; standing in
a vast room amid a confusion of whirling belts and wheels, a roar and screech and grumble and
whirl that completely annulled one of the five senses. There came in front of him, mechanically
propelled, a tray full of small oblong blocks of steel, which he fed, one with each hand, into
two places in a machine; the machine took these blocks, and rounded off one end, and ground
the rest a little smaller, and put a thread on it, and it dropped into a tray on the other
side, a bolt. Because Jimmie had to watch the machine, and keep the oil-cups full, his was
classed as semi-skilled labour, and was paid nineteen and a half cents an hour. Some time ago
an expert had studied the process, and figured that with labour at that price it was one-eighth
of a cent per hour cheaper to have the work done by hand than to instal a machine to do it;
and so for four years Jimmie had his job, standing on one spot from seven to twelve, and again
from twelve-thirty to six, and carrying home every Saturday night the sum of twelve dollars
and twenty-nine cents. You might have thought that the huge machine-works would have made it
twelve-thirty for good measure; but if so, you do not understand large scale production.

And now, all of an instant and without warning, Jimmie's precisely ordered and habitual world
came to an end. He was at his post when the whistle blew, but the machinery did not move. And
presently came the Irish foreman with the curt announcement that the machinery would never
move again, at least not on that spot; it was to be cleared out of the way, and new machinery
set up, and they were to fall to forthwith with wrenches and hammers and crow-bars to make
a new world!

So for a week they did; and meantime, every night as he went home, Jimmie saw people's homes
being wrecked--roofs falling in clouds of dust, and gangs of men loading the debris into huge
motor-trucks. Before long they had got acetylene torches, and were working all night-gangs
of labourers who lived in tents on vacant lots outside the city and kept their canvas cots
warm with double shifts of sleepers. Jimmie Higgins realized the dreadful truth, that in spite
of all the agitation of Socialists, the war had actually come to Leesville!

CHAPTER IV

JIMMIE HIGGINS STRIKES IT RICH

I

It was some time before Jimmie understood the nature of the new machinery he was helping to
set up. It was nobody's business to explain, for he was only a pair of hands and a strong back;
he was not supposed to be a brain--while as for a soul or a conscience, nobody was supposed
to be that. Russian agents had come to Leesville with seventeen millions of the money which
the Paris bankers had put up; and so overnight whole blocks of homes were swept out of existence,
and a huge new steel structure was rising, and on the spot where for four years Jimmie had
made certain motions of the hands, they were preparing to manufacture new machinery for the
quantity production of shell-casings.

When Jimmie had definitely learned what was in process, he was brought face to face with a
grave moral problem. Could he, as an international Socialist, spend his time making shells
to kill his German comrades? Could he spend his time making the machinery to make the shells?
Would he take the bribe of old man Granitch, a working man's share of the hideous loot--an
increase of four cents an hour, with the prospect of another four when the works got started?
Jimmie had to meet this issue, just when it happened that one of his babies was sick, and he
was cudgelling his head to think how he could ever squeeze out of his scanty wage the money
to pay the doctor!

The answer was easy to Comrade Schneider, the stout and sturdy brewer, who stood up in the
local and spoke with bitter scorn of those Socialists who stayed on in the pay of that old
hell-devil, Granitch. Schneider wanted a strike in the Empire Machine Shops, and he wanted
it that very night! But then rose Comrade Mabel Smith, whose brother was a bookkeeper for the
concern. It was all very well for Schneider to talk, but suppose someone were to demand that
the brewery-workers should strike and refuse to make beer for munition-workers? That was a
mere quibble, argued Schneider; but the other denied this, declaring that it was an illustration
of what the worker was up against, with no control of his own destiny, no voice as to what
use should be made of his product. A man might say that he would have nothing to do with munition-work,
and go out into the fields as a farmer--to raise grain, to be shipped to the armies! The solidarity
of capitalist society was such that nowhere could a man find work that would not in some way
be helping to kill his fellow-workers in other lands.

Jimmie Higgins talked solemnly to Lizzie of moving to Hubbardtown--tempted thereto by the signs
he saw in an agency which had been set up in a vacant store on Main Street. The Hubbard Engine
Company was trying to steal old man Granitch's workers, and was offering thirty-two cents an
hour for semi-skilled labour! Jimmie made inquiry and learned that the company was extending
its plant for gas-engines; for what purpose was not told, but men suspected that the engines
were to go into motor-boats and be used for the sinking of submarines. So Jimmie decided that
Comrade Mabel Smith was right; he might as well stay where he was. He would take as much money
as he could get and use his new-found prosperity to make trouble for the war-profiteers. It
was the first time in his life that Jimmie had ever been free from money-fear. He could now
get a job anywhere at good wages, and so he did not care a hang what the boss might say. He
would talk to his fellow-workers, and explain the war to them; a war of the capitalists at
present, but destined perhaps to turn into another kind of war, which the capitalists would
not find to their taste!

II

It was wonderful, incredible, the thing which had befallen Leesville. Full of hatred for the
system as Jimmie Higgins was, he could not but be thrilled by what he saw. Thousands of men
pouring into the once commonplace little city--men of a score of races and creeds, men old
and young, white and black--even a few yellow ones! It was a boom like San Francisco in '49;
the money which the Paris bankers had paid to the Russian government, and which the Russian
government had paid to old man Granitch, spread out in a golden flood over the city. The speculators
raised the price of land, the house-owners raised rents, the hotels doubled their prices, and
even so, had to put people to bed on pool tables! Even Tom Callahan of the "Buffeteria"' had
to hire two assistants, and build an extension, and move his kitchen into the back yard.

At night the hordes of strangers roamed the streets, and Lipsky's "Picture Palace" was packed
to the doors, and the "Bon Marche Shoe Stores" had a new bankruptcy sale every week, and the
swinging doors of the saloons were never still for hours on end. Of course, where so many men
were gathered, there came women--swarms of women--of as many races as the men. Leesville had
some two score churches, and had kept hitherto a careful pretence of decency; but now all barriers
went down, the police-force of the city was overwhelmed by the new population--or was it by
the golden flood from Paris by way of Russia? Anyway, you saw sights on Main Street which confirmed
your distrust of war.

Never had there been such an opportunity for Socialist propaganda! All these hordes of men,
collected from the ends of the earth, torn loose from home ties, from religion, from old habits
of every sort, thrown together promiscuously, living in any old way, ready for any old thing
that might come along! In former days these men had taken what was handed out to them by their
newspaper editors and preachers and politicians; they had engaged in commonplace and respectable
activities, had lived tame and unadventurous lives. But now they were making munitions; and
you might say what you pleased, but there was a certain psychological condition incidental
to the making of munitions. An employer could look pious and talk about law and order, so long
as he was setting his men to hoeing weeds or shingling roofs or grading track; but what could
he say to his men when he was making shells to be used in blowing men to pieces?

So came the Socialist and the Anarchist and the Syndicalist and the Industrial Unionist. Look
at these masters, look at this civilization they have produced! In the world's oldest centres
of culture ten or twenty millions of wage-slaves have been hurled together--and then the Socialist
or Anarchist or Syndicalist or Industrial Unionist would describe in detail the bloody and
bestial operations which these ten or twenty millions of men were performing. And each day's
papers would bring fresh details for them to cite--famine and pestilence, fire and slaughter,
poison gas, incendiary bombs, torpedoed passenger-ships. Look at these pious hypocrites, the
masters, with their refinement, their culture, their religion! These are the people you are
asked to follow, it is for such as these that you have been chained to the machines all these
weary, toil-crowded years!

III

On every street corner, in every meeting-room, in every spot where the workers gathered at
the noon hour, you would hear such arguments; and you would find men listening to them--men
who perhaps had never listened to such arguments before. They would nod, and their faces would
become grim--yes, the people up on top must be a rotten lot! Here in America, supposed to be
a land of liberty and all that--here they were just the same, they were crowding to the trough
to drink the blood that was poured out in Europe. Of course, they covered their greed with
a camouflage of sympathy for the Allies; but did anybody believe that old man Granitch loved
the Russian government? Certainly nobody in Leesville did; they knew that he was "getting his",
and their hearts hardened with a grim resolve to "get theirs".

At first they thought they were succeeding. Wages went up, almost for the asking; never did
the unskilled man have so much money in his pocket, while the man who could pretend to any
skill at all found himself in the plutocratic class. But quickly men discovered the worm in
this luscious war-fruit; prices were going up almost as fast as wages--in some places even
faster. The sums you had to pay to the landlord surpassed belief; a single working man would
be asked two or three dollars a week for twelve hours' use of a mattress and blanket, which
in the old days he might have got for fifty cents. Food was scarce and of poor quality; before
long you found yourself being asked to pay six cents for a hunk of pie or a cup of coffee--and
then seven cents, and then ten. If you kicked, the proprietor would tell you a long tale about
what he had to pay for rent and labour and supplies; and you could not deny that he was probably
right. About the only thing that did not go up was a postage-stamp; and the Socialist would
point to this and explain that the Post Office was run by Uncle Sam, instead of by Abel Granitch!

Every rise in price was a fresh stick of fuel for the Socialist machine, and gave new power
to their propaganda of "Starve the War and Feed America!" The Socialist saw millions of tons
of goods being loaded into steamships and sent to Europe to be destroyed in war; he saw the
workers of Europe becoming enslaved by a bonded debt to a class of parasites in America, he
saw America being drawn closer and closer to the abyss of the strife. The Socialist loved no
part of this process. He clamoured for an embargo--not merely on munitions, but on food and
everything, until the war-lords of Europe came to their senses. He urged the workers to strike,
and thus force the politicians to declare the embargo.

Especially, of course, he urged this if he were a German or an Austrian, a Hungarian or a Bohemian.
The latter were subject races, but they could not in these early days see beyond the fact that
their fathers and brothers and cousins were being killed by the shells that were made in the
Empire Machine Shops. With them stood also the Jews, who hated the Russian government so bitterly
that nothing else mattered; also the Irish, whose first idea in life was to pay back John Bull
for his sins of several centuries, and whose second idea was to take part in any sort of shivaree
that was going. It was quite bewildering to Jimmie Higgins; he had wrestled with Catholics
of several nations and got nothing but hard words for his pains, but now all of a sudden Tom
Callahan of the "Buffeteria" and Pat Grogan of the grocery on the corner made the discovery
that maybe he was not such a fool after all!

IV

As a result of this ferment among the workers, the local had doubled its membership, and was
holding soap-box meetings on a corner off Main Street on two evenings every week. The plans
for the weekly paper, however, still hung fire. Comrade Dr. Service had lost his two brothers-in-law,
one in the battle of Mons, and the other in the first frightful gas-attack at Ypres, where
whole regiments of men were caught unprepared and died in awful torments. Also two of his wife's
cousins had paid the price--one was blind, and the other a prisoner at Ruhleben, the worst
fate of all. So Dr. Service made one last indignant speech in the local, and took his five
hundred dollars to start a chapter of the Red Cross!

But now the Germans and the war-haters in the local were asking themselves, was Socialism to
languish in the city of the Empire Machine Shops, just because one rich man with an English
wife had proved a renegade? Such a question answered itself! The work of collecting subscription
lists was taken up more vigorously than ever; and already more than half the lost five hundred
had been made up, when one evening John Meissner came home with a most amazing story.

It was his custom to stop at Sandkuh's for one glass of beer on his way home in the evening;
and when anybody in the saloon got to arguing about the war, he would take his chance to put
in a little propaganda. This time he had made a regular speech, declaring that the workers
would soon put an end to the munition-business; and a fellow had got to talking with him, asking
him all sorts of questions about himself, and about the local. How many members did it have?
How many of them felt as Meissner did? What were they doing about it? Pretty soon the man had
drawn Meissner to a table in the back part of the place, asking about the proposed paper, and
what its policy was to be; also about the unions in the city, and their policy, and the personalities
of the leaders.

The man had said he was a Socialist, but Meissner did not believe him. Meissner thought he
must be some kind of union organizer. There had been talk of various unions making an effort
to break into the domain of old man Granitch; and, of course, there was always the I. W. W.
trying to break in everywhere with its programme of the "one big union".

Meissner went on to tell how this mysterious stranger had stated to him that it would be possible
to get plenty of money to back the proposition of a strike in the Empire Shops. The new plant
was just ready to start up, and fresh swarms of men were coming in; what was wanted was some
live fellows to get in with them and agitate for an eight hour day and a minimum wage scale
of sixty cents an hour. Men who were willing to do that could get good money, and plenty of
it; if the Leesville Worker would advocate such a policy, there was no reason why it should
not start up the very next week, and publish a big edition and flood the town. The one essential
was that arrangements should be made secretly. Meissner must trust no one save dyed-in-the-wool
"reds", who would be willing to hustle, and not say where the pay came from. As earnest of
his intentions, the stranger pulled out a roll of bills, and casually drew off half a dozen
and slipped them into Meissner's hands. They were for ten dollars each--more money than a petty
boss at the glass-works had ever got into his hands at one time in all his life!

Meissner exhibited the roll, and Jimmie stared with wide-open eyes. Here indeed was a new development
of the war--ten dollar bills for Socialist propaganda to be picked up in the back rooms of
saloons! What was this fellow's name? And where did he hang out? Meissner offered to take Jimmie
to meet him, and so the two bolted their suppers and set out at top speed.

V

Jerry Coleman had mentioned several saloons where he was known, and in one of these they found
him, a smooth-faced, smooth-spoken young fellow whom Jimmie would have taken for a detective
or "spotter"--having had dealings with such in his days "on the road". The man wore good clothes,
and his finger-nails were cared for, something which, as we know, is seldom permitted to working-men.
But he did not put on airs, and he bade them call him by his first name. He talked to Jimmie
a while, enough to make sure of his man, and then he peeled off some more bills, and told Jimmie
to find more fellows who could be trusted. It wouldn't do for any one person to have too much
money, for that would excite suspicion; but if they would go to work and spend that much for
dodgers to be distributed among the munition-workers, and for street-meetings, and for the
proposed radical paper--well, there was plenty more money in the place where this had come from.

Where was that place? Jimmie asked; and Jerry Coleman looked wise and winked. Then, after further
consideration, he decided it might be well to tell them, provided they would pledge themselves
not to mention it to others without his permission. This pledge they gave, and Jerry stated
that he was a national organizer for the American Federation of Labour, which had resolved
to unionize these munition-plants, and to establish the eight hour day. But it was of the utmost
importance that the bosses should not get wind of the matter; it must not be revealed to anyone
save those whom Coleman saw fit to trust. He was trusting Jimmie and Meissner, and they might
know that the great labour organization was behind them, and would see them through regardless
of expense. Of course, it would be expected that they would use the money honestly.

"Gee!" exclaimed Jimmie. "What do you take us for? A bunch of crooks?"

No, said the other, he was not such a poor judge of character. And Jimmie remarked grimly that
anybody who was looking for easy money did not go into the business of Socialist agitation.
If there was anything a Socialist could boast of, it was that their workers and elected officials
never touched any graft. Mr. Coleman--that is, Jerry--would be handed a receipt for every dollar
they spent.

It chanced that that same night there was a meeting of the Propaganda Committee of the local,
which consisted of half a dozen of the most active members. Jimmie and Meissner hurried to
this place, with their new-found wealth burning a hole in their pockets. They informed the
committee that they had been collecting money for the propaganda fund, and produced before
the eyes of the astounded comrades the sum of one hundred dollars.

It happened that the chairman of the committee had just received from the National Office of
the party in Chicago a sample of a new leaflet entitled "Feed America First"; this leaflet
could be had in quantities for a very low price, a dollar or two per thousand; as a result
of Jimmie's contribution, a telegram was sent for ten thousand of the leaflets to be shipped
by express. And then there was a proposition from the state office for Comrade Seaman, author
of a book against war, to speak every night for two weeks in Leesville. The local had voted
to turn down his proposition for lack of funds; but now, with the new contributions, the propaganda
committee felt equal to the fifty dollars involved. And then there was the idea of Comrade
Gerrity, the organizer, who was conducting street meetings every Wednesday and Saturday nights;
if he could have an assistant, at fifteen a week, the soap-boxing could go on every night.
John Meissner here put in--he was sure that contributions could be got for that purpose, provided
the decision was made without delay. So the decision was made.

VI

The meeting was adjourned, and then Meissner and Jimmie went into conference with Gerrity,
the organizer, and Schneider, the brewer, and Comrade Mary Allen, all three of whom happened
to be on the committee entrusted with the affairs of the Worker. Jimmie explained that they
had met a union organizer--they could not tell about him, but the committee would have a chance
to meet him--who would put up the balance of the money needed, provided that the paper would
be willing to call at once for a strike of the Empire employees. Could that promise be made?
And Comrade Mary Allen laughed, indicating her scorn for anybody who could cherish a doubt
on that question! Comrade Mary was a Quaker; she loved all mankind with religious fervour--and
it is astonishing how bitter people can become in the cause of universal love. Her sharp, pale
face flushed, and her thin lips set, as she answered that the Worker would most surely fight
the war-profiteers, so long as she was on the managing committee!

It was finally decided that Comrade Mary should call on Jerry Coleman in the morning, and satisfy
herself that he really meant business; if so, she would get the full committee together on
the following evening. The committee had authority to go ahead, as soon as the necessary fund
was made up, so if Coleman was all right, there was no reason why the first issue of the paper
should not appear next week. Comrade Jack Smith, a reporter on the Herald, the capitalist paper
of Leesville, was to resign and become editor of the Worker, and he already had his editorials
written--had been showing them about in the local for the past month!

Jimmie and Meissner set out for home, happy in the feeling that they had accomplished more
for Socialism on that one night than in all the rest of their lives. But then, as they walked,
there came suddenly a clamour of bells on the night air; a fire! They knew the signals, and
counted the strokes, and made the discovery that it was in the neighbourhood of their own home!
An engine went by on the gallop, with sparks streaming out behind, and they broke into a run.
Before they had gone a couple of blocks, they saw a glare in the sky, and their hearts were
in their throats; poor Meissner panted that he had neglected to pay his last month's insurance!

But as they ran, in the ever-growing throng of people, they realized that the fire was too
near for their own home; also, it was a bigger blaze than could have been made by any number
of shacks. And presently there were shouts in the crowd, "It's the Empire! The Old Shops!"
There came a hook and ladder truck, rushing by with shrieking siren, and then the fire-chief
in his automobile with a fiercely clanging bell; they turned the corner, and far down the street
before them was the building in which for four years Jimmie had tended the bolt-making machine.
They saw that one whole end of it was a towering, leaping, sweeping pillar of flames!

CHAPTER V

JIMMIE HIGGINS HELPS THE KAISER

I

Jimmie Higgins regarded with the utmost resentment the determination of the war to come to
Leesville, in spite of all his labours to keep it out. Take the most preposterous thing you
could imagine--the most idiotic thing on the face of the earth--take German spies! When Jimmie
heard people talking about German spies, he laughed in their faces, he told them they were
a bunch of fools, they belonged in the nursery; for Jimmie classed German spies with goblins,
witches and sea-serpents. And here suddenly the bewildered little man found himself in the
midst of a German spy mania, the like of which he could never have dreamed!

Everybody seemed to take it for granted that the Empire Machine Shops had been burned by German
agents; they just knew it, and by the time the fire was out they had a hundred various stories
to support their conviction. The fire had leaped from place to place in a series of explosions;
the watchman, who had passed through the building only two minutes before, had rushed back
and seen blazing gasolene, and had almost lost his life in the sweep of the flames. And next
morning the Leesville Herald was out with letters half a foot high, telling these tales and
insisting that the plant had been full of German agents, disguised as working men.

Before the day was by the police had arrested a dozen perfectly harmless German and Austrian
labourers; at least that was the way it seemed to Jimmie, because of the fact that two of the
men were members of the Socialist local. Somebody told Mrs. Meissner that all the Germans in
Leesville were to be arrested, and the poor woman was trembling with terror. She wanted her
husband to run away, but Jimmie persuaded them that this would be the worst possible course;
so Meissner stayed in the house, and Jimmie kept his mouth shut for three whole days--an extraordinary
feat for him, and a trial more severe than being in gaol.

He had lost his job--for ever, he thought. But in this again he misjudged the forces which
had taken his life in their grip--the power of the gold which had come to Leesville by way
of Russia. The day after the fire he received word to report for work again; old man Granitch
was so anxious to keep his workers out of the clutches of the Hubbard Engine Company that he
put them all, skilled and unskilled, at the job of clearing away the debris of the fire! And
five days later came the first carloads of new material, brought on motor-trucks, and the rebuilding
of the Empire Shops began. Would you believe it--some of the machinery which had not been damaged
too much in the fire was fixed up, and at the end of a couple of weeks was starting up again,
covered by a temporary canvas shelter, and with the walls of the new building rising round it!

That was the kind of thing which made America the marvel of the world. It had made old man
Granitch young again, people said; he worked twenty hours a day in his shirt-sleeves, and the
increase in his profanity was appalling. Even Lacey Granitch, his dashing son, quitted the
bright lights of Broadway and came home to help the old man keep his contracts. The enthusiasm
for these contracts became as it were the religion of Leesville; it spread even to the ranks
of labour, so that Jimmie found himself like a man in a surf, struggling to keep his feet against
an undertow.

II

The plans for the Worker were delayed, for the reason that when Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker,
went to look for Jerry Coleman the day after the fire, that dispenser of ten dollar bills had
mysteriously disappeared. It was a week before he showed up again; and meantime fresh events
had taken place, both in the local and outside. To begin with the latter, as presumably the
more important, an English passenger liner, the pride of the Atlantic fleet, loaded to the
last cabin with American millionaires, was torpedoed without warning by a German submarine.
More than a thousand men, women and children went down, and the deed sent a shudder of horror
through the civilized world. At the meeting of Local Leesville, which happened to take place
the evening afterward, it proved a difficult matter to get business started.

The members stood about and argued. What could you say about a government that ordered a crime
like that? What could you say about a naval officer who would carry out such an order? Thus
Comrade Norwood, the young lawyer; and Schneider, the brewer, answered that the German government
had done everything that any reasonable man could ask. It had published a notice in the New
York papers, to the effect that the vessel was subject to attack, and that anyone who travelled
on her would do so at his peril. If women and children would ride on munition-ships--

"Munition-ships?" cried Norwood; and then Schneider pointed to a news-dispatch, to the effect
that the Lusitania had had on board a shipment of cartridge-cases.

"A fine lot of munitions!" jeered the lawyer.

Well, was the reply, what were cartridge-cases for, if not to kill Germans? The Germans had
been attacked by the whole world, and they had to defend themselves. When you looked at Comrade
Schneider, you saw a man who felt himself attacked by the whole world; his face was red up
to the roots of his hair, and he was ready to defend himself with any weapon he could get hold of.

Comrade Koeln, a big glass-blower, broke into the discussion. The German government was authority
for the statement that the Lusitania had been armed with guns. And when Norwood hooted at this,
every German in the room was up in arms. What did he have to disprove it? The word of the British
government! Was not "perfidious Albion" a byword!

"The thing that beats me," declared the young lawyer, "is the way you Germans stand up for
the Kaiser now, when before the war you couldn't find enough bad things to say about him."

"What beats me," countered Schneider, "is how you Americans stand up for King George. Every
newspaper in Wall Street howling for America to go into the war--just because some millionaires
got killed!"

"You don't seem to realize that the greater number of the men who lost their lives on that
ship were working men!"

"Ho! Ho!" hooted Comrade Stankewitz. "Vall Street loves so the vorking men!"

Comrade Mary Allen, who loved all men, took up the argument. If those working men had been
killed in a mine disaster, caused by criminal carelessness and greed for profits; if they had
died of some industrial disease which might easily have been prevented; if they had been burned
in a factory without fire-escapes--nobody in Wall Street would have wanted to go to war. And,
of course, every Socialist considered this was true; every Socialist saw quite clearly that
the enormity of the Lusitania sinking lay in the fact that it had reached and injured the privileged
people, the people who counted, who got their names in the papers and were not supposed to
be inconvenienced, even by war. So it was possible for Jimmie Higgins, even though shocked
by what the Germans had done, to be irritated by the fuss which the Wall Street newspapers made.

Young Emil Forster spoke, and they listened to him, as they always did. It was a quarrel, he
said--and as usual in quarrels, both sides had their rights and wrongs. You had to balance
a few English and American babies against the millions of German babies which the British government
intended to starve. It was British sea-power maintaining itself--and of course controlling
most of the channels of publicity. It appealed to what it called "law"--that is to say, the
customs it had found convenient in the past. British cruisers were able to visit and search
vessels, and to take off their crews; but submarines could not do that, so what the British
clamour about "law" amounted to was an attempt to keep Germany from using her only weapon.
After all, ask yourself honestly if it was any worse to drown people quickly than to starve
them slowly.

And then came "Wild Bill". This wrangling over German and British gave him a pain in the guts.
Couldn't they see, the big stiffs, that they were playing the masters' game? Quarrelling among
themselves, when they ought to be waking up the workers, getting ready for the real fight.
And wizened-up little Stankewitz broke in again--that vas vy he hated var, it divided the vorkers.
There was nothing you could say for var. But "Wild Bill" smiled his crooked smile. There were
several things you could say. War gave the workers guns, and taught them to use them; how would
it be if some day they turned these guns about and fought their own battles?

III

Comrade Gerrity now took the chair and made an effort to get things started. The minutes of
the last meeting were read, new members were voted on, and then Comrade Mary Allen rose to
report for the Worker committee. The fund had been completed, the first number of the paper
was to appear next week, and it was now up to every member of the local to get up on his toes
and hustle as never in his life before. Comrade Mary, with her thin, eager face of a religious
zealot, made everyone share her fervour.

All save Lawyer Norwood. Since the retirement of Dr. Service he was the chief pro-ally trouble-maker,
and he now made a little speech. He had been agreeably surprised to learn that the money had
been raised so quickly; but then certain uncomfortable doubts having occurred to him, he had
made inquiries and found there was some mystery about the matter. It was stated that the new
paper was to demand a general strike in the Empire; and of course everybody knew there were
powerful and sinister forces now interested in promoting strikes in munition factories.

"Wild Bill" was on his feet in an instant. Had the comrade any objection to munition workers
demanding the eight hour day?

"No," said Norwood, "of course not; but if we are going into a fight with other people, we
surely ought to know who they are and what their purpose is. I have been informed--there seems
to be a little hesitation in talking about it--that a lot of money has been put up by one man,
and nobody knows who that man is."

"He's an organizer for the A. F. of L.!" The voice was Jimmie's. In his excitement the solemn
pledge of secrecy was entirely forgotten!

"Indeed!" said Norwood. "What is his name?"

Nobody answered.

"Has he shown his credentials?" Again silence.

"Of course, I don't need to tell men as familiar with union affairs as the comrades here that
every bona-fide organizer for a union carries credentials. If he does not produce them, it
is at least occasion for writing to the organization and finding out about him. Has anybody
done that?"

Again there was silence.

"I don't want to make charges," said Norwood--

"Oh, no!" put in "Wild Bill". "You only want to make insinuations!"

"What I want to do is merely to make sure that the local knows what it is doing. It is no secret
anywhere in Leesville that money is being spent to cause trouble in the Empire. No doubt this
money has passed through a great many hands since it left the Kaiser's, but we may be sure
that his hands are guiding it to its final end."

And then what an uproar! "Shame! Shame!" cried some; and others cried, "Bring your proofs!"
The "wild" members shouted, "Put him out!" They had long wanted to get rid of Norwood, and
this looked to be their chance.

But the young lawyer stood his ground and gave them shot for shot. They wanted proofs, did
they? Suppose they had learned of a capitalist conspiracy to wreck the unions in the city;
and suppose that the Leesville Herald had been clamouring for "proofs"--what would they have
thought?

"In other words," shouted Schneider, "you know it's true, yust because it's Yermany!"

"I know it's true," said Norwood, "because it would help Germany to win the war. One doesn't
have to have any other evidence--if a certain thing will help Germany to win the war, one knows
that thing is being done. All you Germans know that, and what's more, you're proud of it; it's
your efficiency that you boast."

Again there was a cry of "Shame! Shame!" But the cry came from Comrade Mary, the Quaker lady,
and it was evident that she had expected a chorus, and was disconcerted at being alone.

Young Norwood, who knew his Germans, laughed scornfully. "Just now your government is selling
bonds in America, supposed to be for the benefit of the families of the dead and wounded. Some
of those bonds have been taken in this city, as I happen to know. Does anybody really believe
the money will reach the families of the dead and wounded?"

This time the Germans answered. "I belief it!" roared Comrade Koeln. "And I! And I!" shouted
others.

"That money is staying right here in Leesville!" proclaimed the lawyer. "It is preparing a
strike in the Empire!"

A dozen men wanted the floor at once. Schneider, the brewer, got it, for the reason that he
could outbellow anyone else. "What does the comrade want?" he demanded. "Is he not for the
eight hour day?"

"Has he got any of the old man Granitch's money?" shrilled "Wild Bill". "Or maybe he doesn't
know that Granitch is spending money to get smart young lawyers to help keep his munition slaves
at work?"

IV

Norwood, having thrown the fat into the fire, sat down for a while and let it blaze. When the
Germans taunted him with being afraid to say what he really meant--that the local should oppose
the demand for the eight hour day--he merely laughed at them. He had wanted to make them show
themselves up, and he had done it. Not merely were they willing to do the work of the Kaiser--they
were willing to take the Kaiser's pay for doing it!

"Take his pay?" cried "Wild Bill". "I'd take the devil's pay to carry on Socialist propaganda!"

Old Hermann Forster rose and spoke, in his gentle sentimental voice. If it were true that the
Kaiser was paying money for such ends, he would surely find he had bought very little. There
were Socialists in Germany, one must remember--

And then came a shrill laugh. Those tame German Socialists! It was Comrade Claudel, a Belgian
jeweller, who spoke. Would any rabbit be afraid of such revolutionists as them? Eating out
of the Kaiser's hand--having their papers distributed in the trenches for government propaganda!
Talk to a Belgian about German Socialists!

So you saw the European national lines splitting Local Leesville in two: on the one side, the
Germans and the Austrians, the Russian Jews, the Irish and the religious pacifists; on the
other side, two English glass-blowers, a French waiter, and several Americans who, because
of college-education or other snobbish weakness, were suspected of tenderness for John Bull.
Between these extreme factions stood the bulk of the membership, listening bewildered, trying
to grope their way through the labyrinth.

It was no easy job for these plain fellows, the Jimmie Higginses. When they tried to think
the matter out, they were almost brought to despair. There were so many sides to the question--the
last fellow you met always had a better argument than anyone you had heard before! You sympathized
with Belgium and France, of course; but could you help hating the British ruling classes? They
were your hereditary enemies--your school-book enemies, so to speak. And they were the ones
you knew most about; since every American jack-ass that got rich quick and wanted to set himself
up above his fellows would proceed to get English clothes and English servants and English
bad manners. To the average plain American, the word English stood for privilege, for ruling
class culture, the things established, the things against which he was in rebellion; Germany
was the I. W. W. among the nations--the fellow who had never got a chance and was now hitting
out for it. Moreover, the Germans were efficient; they took the trouble to put their case before
you, they cared what you thought about them; whereas the Englishman, damn him, turned up his
snobbish nose, not caring a whoop what you or anybody might think.

Moreover, in this controversy the force of inertia was on the German side, and inertia is a
powerful force in any organization. What the Germans wanted of American Socialists was simply
that they should go on doing what they had been doing all their lives. And the Socialist machine
had been set up for the purpose of going on, regardless of all the powers on earth, in the
heavens above the earth, or in hell beneath. Ask Jimmie Higgins to stop demanding higher wages
and the eight hour day! Wouldn't anybody in his senses know what Jimmie would answer to that
proposition? Go chase yourself!

V

But, on the other hand, it must be admitted that Jimmie was staggered by the idea that he might
be getting into the pay of the Kaiser. It was true that the traditions of the Socialist movement
were German traditions, but they were German anti-Government traditions: Jimmie regarded the
Kaiser as the devil incarnate, and the bare idea of doing anything the Kaiser wanted done was
enough to make him stop short. He could see also what a bad thing it would be for the movement
to have any person believe that it was taking the Kaiser's money. Suppose, for example, that
a report of this evening's discussion should reach the Herald! And with the public inflamed
to madness over the Lusitania affair!

After the discussion had proceeded for an hour or so, Norwood made a motion to the effect that
the Worker committee should be instructed to investigate thoroughly the sources of all funds
contributed, and to reject any that did not come from Socialists, or those in sympathy with
Socialism. The common sense of the meeting asserted itself, and even the Germans voted for
this motion. Sure, let them go ahead and investigate! The Socialist movement was clean, it
had always been clean, it had nothing to conceal from anyone.

But then came another controversy. Claudel moved that Norwood should be made a member of the
committee; and this, of course, was bitterly opposed by the radicals. It was an insult to the
integrity of the committee. Then, too, suggested Baggs, an Englishman, perhaps Norwood might
really find out something! The Jimmie Higginses voted down the motion--not because they feared
any disclosures, but because they felt that a quiet, sensible fellow like Gerrity, their organizer,
might be trusted to protect the good faith of the movement, and without antagonizing anybody
or making a fuss.

The investigation took place, and the result of it was that the money which Jerry Coleman had
contributed for the Worker was quietly returned to him. But the difference was at once made
up by the Germans in the local, who regarded the whole thing as a put-up job, an effort to
block the agitation for a strike. These comrades took no stock whatever in the talk about "German
gold"; but on the other hand they were keenly on the alert for the influence of Russian gold,
which they knew was being openly distributed by old Abel Granitch. And so they put their hands
down into their pockets and dug out their scanty wages, so that the demand for social justice
might be kept alive in Leesville.

The upshot of the whole episode was that the local rejected the Kaiser's pay, but went on doing
what the Kaiser wanted without pay. This could hardly be considered a satisfactory solution,
but it was the best that Jimmie Higgins was able to work out at this time.

VI

The first issue of the Worker appeared, with Jack Smith's editorial spread over the front page,
calling upon the workers of the Empire to take this occasion to organize and demand their rights.
"Eight hours for work, eight hours for sleep, eight hours for play!" proclaimed Comrade Jack;
and the Herald and the Courier, stung to a frenzy by the appearance of a poacher on their journalistic
preserves, answered with broadsides about "German propaganda". The Herald got the story of
what had happened in the local; also it printed a picture of "Wild Bill", and an interview
with that terror of the West, who declared that he was for war on the capitalist class with
the aid of any and every ally that came along--even to the extent of emery powder in ball-bearings
and copper nails driven into fruit trees.

The Herald charged that the attitude of the Socialists toward "tainted wealth" was all a sham.
What had happened was simply that the German members of the local were getting German money,
and making it "Socialist money" by the simple device of passing it through their consecrated
hands. As this had been hinted by Norwood in the local, the German comrades now charged that
Norwood had betrayed the movement to the capitalist press. And so came another bitter controversy
in the local. The young lawyer laughed at the charge. Did they really believe they could take
German money in Leesville, and not have the fact become known?

"Then you think we are taking German money?" roared Schneider; and he clamoured furiously for
an answer. The other would not answer directly, but he told them a little parable. He saw a
tree, sending down its roots into the ground, spreading everywhere, each tiny rootlet constructed
for the purpose of absorbing water. And on the top of the ground was a man with a supply of
water, which he poured out; he poured and poured without stint, and the water seeped down toward
the rootlets, and every rootlet was reaching for water, pushing toward the places where water
was likely to be. "And now," said Norwood, "you ask me, do I believe that tree has been getting
any of that water?"

And here, of course, was the basis of a bitter quarrel. The hot-heads would not listen to subtle
distinctions; they declared that Norwood was accusing the movement of corruption, he was making
out his anti-war opponents to be villains! He was providing the capitalist press with ammunition.
For shame! for shame! "He's a stool-pigeon!" shrieked "Wild Bill". "Put him out, the Judas!"

The average member of the local, the perfectly sincere fellow like Jimmie Higgins, who was
wearing himself out, half-starving himself in the effort to bring enlightenment to his class,
listened to these controversies with bewildered distress. He saw them as echoes of the terrible
national hatreds which were rending Europe, and he resented having these old world disputes
thrust into American industrial life. Why could he not go on with his duty of leading the American
workers into the co-operative commonwealth?

Because, answered the Germans, old man Granitch wanted to keep the American workers as munition-slaves;
and to this idea the overwhelming percentage of the membership agreed. They were not pacifists,
non-resistants; they were perfectly willing to fight the battles of the working-class; what
they objected to was having to fight the battles of the master-class. They wanted to go on,
as they had always gone, opposing the master-class and paying no heed to talk about German
agents. Jimmie Higgins believed--and in this belief he was perfectly correct--that even had
there been no German agents, the capitalist papers of Leesville would have invented them, as
a means of discrediting the agitators in this crisis. Jimmie Higgins had lived all his life
in a country in which his masters starved and oppressed him, and when he tried to help himself,
met him with every weapon of treachery and slander. So Jimmie had made up his mind that one
capitalist country was the same as another capitalist country, and that he would not be frightened
into submission by tales about goblins and witches and sea-serpents and German spies.

CHAPTER VI

JIMMIE HIGGINS GOES TO JAIL

I

Every evening now the party held its "soap-box" meetings on a corner just off Main Street.
Jimmie, having volunteered as one of the assistants, would bolt his supper in the evening and
hurry off to the spot. He was not one of the speakers, of course--he would have been terrified
at the idea of making a speech; but he was one of those whose labours made the speaking possible,
and who reaped the harvest for the movement.

The apparatus of the meeting was kept in the shop of a friendly carpenter near-by. The carpenter
had made a "soap-box" that was a wonder--a platform mounted upon four slender legs, detachable,
so that one man could carry the whole business and set it up. Thus the speaker was lifted a
couple of feet above the heads of the crowd, and provided with a hand-rail upon which he might
lean, and even pound, if he did not pound too hard. A kerosene torch burned some distance from
his head, illuminating his features, and it was Jimmie's business to see that this torch was
properly cleaned and filled, and to hold it erect on a pole part of the time. The rest of the
time he peddled literature among the crowd--copies of the Leesville Worker, and five and ten
cent pamphlets supplied by the National Office.

He would come home at night, worn out from these labours after his daily toil; he would fall
asleep at Lizzie's side, and have to be routed out by her when the alarm-clock went off next
morning. She would get him a cup of hot coffee, and after he had drunk this, he would be himself
again, and would chatter about the adventures of the night before. There was always something
happening, a fellow starting a controversy, a drunken man, or perhaps a couple of thugs in
the pay of old man Granitch, trying to break up the meeting.

Lizzie would do her best to show that sympathy with her husband's activities which is expected
from a dutiful wife. But all the time there was a grief in her soul--the eternal grief of the
feminine temperament, which is cautious and conservative, in conflict with the masculine, which
is adventurous and destructive. Here was Jimmie, earning twice what he had ever earned before,
having a chance to feed his children properly and to put by a little margin for the first time
in his harassed life; but instead of making the most of the opportunity, he was going out on
the streets every night, doing everything in his power to destroy the golden occasion which
Fate had brought to him! Like the fellow who climbs a tree to saw off a limb, and sits on the
limb and saws between himself and the tree!

In spite of her best efforts, Lizzie's broad, kindly face would sometimes become hard with
disappointment, and a big tear would roll down each of her sturdy cheeks. Jimmie would be sorry
for her, and would patiently try to explain his actions. Should a man think only of his own
wife and children, and forget entirely all the other wives and children of the working-class?
That was why the workers had been slaves all through the ages, because each thought of himself,
and never of his fellows. No, you must think of your class! You must act as a class--on the
alert to seize every advantage, to teach solidarity and stimulate class-consciousness! Jimmie
would use these long words, which he had heard at meetings; but then, seeing that Lizzie did
not understand them, he would go back and say it over again in words of one syllable. They
had old man Granitch in a hole just now, and they must teach him a lesson, and at the same
time teach the workers their power. Lizzie would sigh, and shake her head; for to her, old
man Granitch was not a human being, but a natural phenomenon, like winter, or hunger. He, or
some other like him, had been the master of her fathers for generations untold, and to try
to break or even to limit his power was like commanding the tide or the sun.

II

Events moved quickly to their culmination, justifying the worst of Lizzie's fears. The shops
were seething with discontent, and agitators seemed fairly to spring out of the ground; some
of them paid by Jerry Coleman, no doubt, others taking their pay in the form of gratification
of those grudges with which the profit-system had filled their hearts. Noon-meetings would
start up, quite spontaneously, without any prearrangement; and presently Jimmie learned that
men were going about taking the names of all who would agree to strike.

The matter was brought to a head by the Empire managers, who, of course, were kept informed
by their spies. They discharged more than a score of the trouble-makers; and when this news
spread at noon-time, the whole place burst into a flame of wrath. "Strike! strike!" was the
cry. Jimmie was one of many who started a procession through the yards, shouting, singing,
hurling menaces at the bosses, challenging all who proposed to return to work. Less than one-tenth
of the working force made any attempt to do so, and for that afternoon the plant of the Empire
Machine Shops, which was supposed to be turning out shell-casings for the Russian government,
was turning out labour-union, Socialist, and I. W. W. oratory.

Jimmie Higgins was beside himself with excitement. He danced about and waved his cap, he shouted
himself hoarse, he almost yielded to the impulse to jump upon a pile of lumber and make a speech
himself. Presently came Comrades Gerrity and Mary Allen, who had got wind of the trouble, and
had loaded a whole edition of the Worker into a Ford; so Jimmie turned newsboy, selling these
papers, hundreds of them, until his pockets were bursting with the weight of pennies and nickels.
And then he was pressed into service running errands for those who were arranging to organize
the workers; he carried bundles of membership-cards and application-blanks, following a man
with a bull voice and a megaphone, who shouted in several languages the location of union headquarters,
and the halls where various foreign language meetings would be held that evening. Evidently
someone had foreseen the breaking of this trouble, and had been at pains to plan ahead.

Late in the afternoon Jimmie was witness of an exciting incident. In one of the shops a number
of the men had persisted in returning to work, and an immense throng of strikers had gathered
to wait for them. They were afraid to come out, but stayed in the building after the quitting-whistle,
while those outside jeered and hooted and the bosses telephoned frantically for aid. The greater
part of the Leesville police-force was on hand, and in addition, the company had its own guards
and private detectives. But they were needed all over the place. You saw them at the various
entrances, menacing, but not quite so sure of themselves as usual; their hands had a tendency
to slip back to the bulge on their right hips.

Jimmie and another fellow had got themselves an empty box and were standing on it, leaning
against the wall of the building and shouting "Ya! Ya!" at every "scab" head that showed itself.
They saw an automobile come in at the gate, its horn honking savagely, causing the crowd to
leap to one side or the other. The automobile was packed with men, sitting on one another's
knees, or hanging to the running-boards outside. There came a second car, loaded in the same
fashion. They were guards, sent all the way from Hubbardtown; for of course the Hubbard Engine
Company would help out its rivals in an emergency such as this. That was the solidarity of
capitalism, concerning which the Socialists never wearied of preaching.

The men leaped from the cars, and spread themselves fanwise in front of the door. They had
nightsticks in their hands, and grim resolution in their faces; they cried, "Stand back! Stand
back!" The crowd hooted, but gave slightly, and a few minutes later the doors of the building
opened, and the first of the timid workers emerged. There was a howl, and then from somewhere
in the throng a stone was thrown. "Arrest that man!" shouted a voice, and Jimmie's attention
was attracted to the owner of this voice--a young man who had arrived in the first automobile,
and was now standing up in the seat, from which position he could dominate the throng. "Arrest
that man!" he shouted again, pointing his finger; and three of the guards leaped into the crowd
at the spot indicated. The man who had thrown the missile started to run, but he could not
go fast in the crowd, and in a moment, as it seemed, the guards had him by the collar. He tried
to jerk away, and they struck him over the head, and laid about them to keep the rest of the
throng at bay. "Take him inside!" the young man in the car kept shouting. And one of the guards
twisted his hand in the collar of the wretched stone-thrower, until he grew purple in the face,
and so half-dragged and half-ran him into the building.

III

The young man in the car turned toward the crowd which was blocking the way to the exit. "Get
those men out of the way!" he yelled to the guards. "Drive them along--God damn them, they've
got no business in here." And so on, with a string of dynamic profanity, which stung both guards
and policemen into action, and made them ply their clubs upon the crowd.

"Do you know who that is?" asked Jimmie's companion on the box. "That's Lacey Granitch."

Jimmie started, experiencing a thrill to the soles of his ragged shoes. Lacey Granitch! In
the four years that the little machinist had worked for the Empire, he had never caught a glimpse
of the young lord of Leesville--something which may easily be believed, for the young lord
considered Leesville "a hole of a town", and honoured it with his presence only once or twice
a year. But his spirit brooded over it; he was to Leesville a mythological figure, either of
wonder and awe, or of horror, according to the temperament of the contemplator. One day "Wild
Bill" had arisen in the local, and held aloft a page from the "magazine supplement" of one
of the metropolitan "yellows". There was an account of how Lacey Granitch had broken the hearts
of seven chorus-girls by running away with an eighth. He fairly "ate 'em alive", according
to the account; in order to give an idea of the atmosphere in which the young hero abode, the
whirl of delight which was his life, the artist of the Sunday supplement had woven round the
border of the page a maze of feminine ankles and calves in a delirium of lingerie; while at
the top was a supper-table with champagne-corks popping, and a lady clad in inadequate veils
dancing amid the dishes.

This had happened while the local was in the midst of an acrimonious controversy over "Section
Six". Should the Socialist party bar from its membership those who advocated sabotage, violence
and crime? Young Norwood was pleading for orderly methods of social reconstruction; and here
stood "Wild Bill", ripping to shreds the reputation of the young plutocrat of the Empire Shops.
"That's what you geezers are sweating for! That's why you've got to be good, and not throw
monkey-wrenches in the machinery--so the seven broken-hearted chorus-girls can drown their
sorrows in champagne!"

And now here was the hero of all these romantic escapades, forsaking the white lights of Broadway,
and coming home to help the old man keep his contracts. He stood in the seat of the automobile,
glancing this way and that, swiftly, like a hunter on the alert for dangerous game. His dark
eyes roamed here and there, his proud face was pale with anger, his tall, perfectly groomed
figure was eloquent of mastership, of command. He was imperious as a young Caesar, terrible
in his vengeance; and poor Jimmie, watching him, was torn between two contradictory emotions.
He hated him--hated him with a deadly and abiding hatred. But also he admired him, marvelled
at him, cringed before him. Lacey was a wanton, a cursing tyrant, a brutal snob; but also he
was the master, the conqueror, the proud, free, rich young aristocrat, for whom all the rest
of humanity existed. And Jimmie Higgins was a poor little worm of a proletarian, with nothing
but his labour-power to sell, trying by sheer force of his will to lift himself out of his
slave-psychology!

There is an old adage that "a cat may look at a king". But this can only have been meant to
apply to house-cats, cats of the palace, accustomed to the etiquette of courts; it cannot have
been meant for proletarian cats of the gutter, the Jimmie Higgins variety of red revolutionary
yowlers. Jimmie and his companion stood on their perch, shouting "Ya! Ya!" and suddenly the
crowd melted away in front of them, exposing them to the angry finger of the young master.
"Get along now! Beat it! Quick!" And Jimmie, poor little ragged, stunted Jimmie, with bad teeth
and toil-deformed hands, wilted before this blast of aristocratic wrath, and made haste to
hide himself in the throng. But it was with blazing soul that he went; every instant he imagined
himself turning back, defying the angry finger, shouting down the imperious voice, even smashing
it back into the throat from which it came!

IV

Jimmie did not even stop for supper. The greater part of the night he worked at helping to
organize the strikers, and all next day he spent arranging Socialist meetings. He worked like
a man possessed, lifted above the limitations of the flesh. For everywhere that day he carried
with him the image of the proud, free, rich young aristocrat, with his dark eyes roaming swiftly,
his tall, perfectly groomed figure eloquent of mastership, his voice ringing with challenge.
Jimmie was for the time utterly possessed by hatred; and he saw about him thousands of others
sharing the mood and shouting it aloud. Every speaker who could be found was turned loose to
talk till he was hoarse, and in the evening there was to be half a dozen street meetings. That
was always the way when there were strikes; then the working man had time to listen--and also
the desire!

So came the final crisis, when the little machinist had to show the stuff he was made of. He
was holding aloft the torch at the regular meeting-place on the corner of Main and Third Streets,
and Comrade Gerrity was explaining the strike and the ballot as two edges of the sword of labour,
when four policemen came suddenly round the corner and pushed their way through the crowd.
"You'll have to stop this!" declared one.

"Stop?" cried Gerrity. "What do you mean?"

"There's to be no more street-speaking during the strike."

"Who says so?"

"Orders from the chief."

"But we've got a permit."

"All permits revoked. Cut it out."

"But this is an outrage!"

"We don't want any argument, young man--"

"But we're within our rights here."

"Forget it, young feller!"

Gerrity turned swiftly to the throng.

"Fellow-citizens," he cried, "we are here in the exercise of our rights as American citizens!
We are conducting a peaceable and orderly political meeting, and we know our rights and propose
to maintain them. We--"

"Come down off that box, young feller!" commanded the officer; and the crowd hooted and booed.

"Fellow-citizens!" began Gerrity again; but that was as far as he got, for the policeman seized
him by the arm and pulled; and Gerrity knew the ways of American policemen too well to resist.
He came down--but still talking. "Fellow-citizens--"

"Are you goin' to shut up?" demanded the other, and as Gerrity still went on orating, he announced:
"You are under arrest."

There were half a dozen Socialists with the party, and this was a challenge to the self-respect
of everyone of them. In an instant Comrade Mabel Smith had leaped on to the stand. "Fellow
workers!" she cried. "Is this America, or is it Russia?"

"That'll do, lady," said the policeman, as considerately as he dared; for Comrade Mabel wore
a big picture-hat and many other signs of youth and beauty.

"I have a right to speak here, and I mean to speak," she declared.

"We don't want to have to arrest you, lady--"

"You either have to arrest me, or else allow me to speak."

"I'm sorry, lady, but it's orders. You are arrested."

Then came the turn of Comrade Stankewitz. "Vorking men, it is for the rights of the vorkers
ve are here." And so they jerked him off.

And then "Wild Bill". This hundred per cent, middle-of-the-road proletarian had been hanging
on the outskirts of the meeting, having been forbidden by the local to take part in the speaking,
because of the intemperate nature of his utterances; but now, of course, all rules went down,
and Bill leaped on to the shaking platform. "Are we slaves?" he yelled. "Are we dogs?" And
it would seem that the police thought so, for they yanked him off the platform, and one of
them seized him by the wrist and twisted so that his oration ended in a shriek of pain.

Then came Johnny Edge, a shy youth with an armful of literature, which he hung on to in spite
of police violence; and then--then there was one more!

Poor Jimmie! He did not in the least want to get arrested, and he was terrified at the idea
of making even so short a speech as was here the order of the night. But, of course, his honour
was at stake, there was no way out. He handed his torch to a bystander, and mounted the scaffold.
"Is this a free country?" he cried. "Do we have free speech?" And Jimmie's first effort at
oratory ended in a jerk at his coat-tail, which all but upset the frail platform upon which
he stood.

There were four policemen, with six prisoners, and a throng about them howling with indignation,
perhaps ready to become violent--who could say? The guardians of order had been prepared however.
One of them stepped to the corner and blew his whistle, and a minute later came the shriek
of a siren, and round the corner came swinging the city's big patrol-wagon, the "Black Maria".
The crowd gave way, and one by one the prisoners were thrust in. One of them, "Wild Bill",
feeling himself for a moment released from the grip of his captors, raised his voice, shouting
through the wire grating of the wagon: "I denounce this outrage! I am a free American--" And
suddenly Jimmie, who was next in the wagon, felt himself flung to one side, and a policeman
leaped by him, and planted his fist with terrific violence full in the orator's mouth. "Wild
Bill" went down like a bullock under the slaughter-man's axe, and the patrol-wagon started
up, the cry of its siren drowning the protests of the crowd.

Poor Bill! He lay across the seat, and Jimmie, who had to sit next to him, caught him in his
arms and held him. He was quivering, with awful motions like a spasm. He made no sound, and
Jimmie was terrified, thinking that he was dying. Before long Jimmie felt a hot wetness stealing
over his hands, first slimy, then turning sticky. He had to sit there, almost fainting with
horror; he dared not say anything, for maybe the policeman would strike him also. He sat, clutching
in his arms the shaking body, and whispering under his breath, "Poor Bill! Poor Bill!"

V

They came to the station-house, and Bill was carried out and laid on a bench, and the others
were stood up before the desk and had their pedigrees taken. Gerrity demanded indignantly to
be allowed to telephone, and this demand was granted. He routed Lawyer Norwood from a party,
and set him to finding bail; and meantime the prisoners were led to cells.

They had been there only a couple of minutes when there came floating through the row of steel
cages the voice of a woman singing. It was Comrade Mabel Smith in that clear sweet voice they
had so often listened to on "social evenings" in the local.

The sound thrilled them to the very bones, and they joined in the chorus with a shout. Then,
of course, came the jailer: "Shut up." And then again: "Shut up!" And then a third time: "Will
ye shut up?" And then came a bucket of water, hurled through the cell bars. It hit Jimmie squarely
in the mouth, and in the words of the poet, "the subsequent proceedings interested him no more!"

About midnight came Lawyer Norwood and Dr. Service. Both of these men had protested against
the street-speaking at this time; but of course, when it came to comrades in trouble, they
could not resist the appeal to their sympathies. Such is the difficulty of entirely respectable
and decorous "parlour" Socialists, in their dealings with the wayward children of the movement,
the "impossibilists" and "direct actionists" and other sowers of proletarian wild oats. Dr.
Service produced a wad of bills and bailed out all the prisoners, and delivered himself of
impressive indignation to the police-sergeant, while waiting for an ambulance to carry "Wild
Bill" to the hospital. Jimmie Higgins, who had always hitherto shouted with the "wild" ones,
realized suddenly how pleasant it is to have a friend who wears black broadcloth, and carries
himself like the drum-major of a band, and is reputed to be worth a couple of hundred thousand
dollars.

Jimmie went home; and there was Lizzie, pacing the floor and wringing her hands in anxiety--for
there had been no way to get word to her what had happened. She flung herself into his arms,
and then recoiled in fright when, she discovered that he was wet. He told her the story; and
would you believe it--Lizzie, being a woman, and only in the A-B-C stage of revolutionary education,
actually did not know that it was a glorious and heroic adventure to be arrested! She thought
it a disgrace, and tried to persuade him to keep the dreadful secret from the neighbourhood!
And when she found that he was not through yet, but had to go to court in the morning and be
tried, she wept copiously, and woke up Jimmie Junior, and started him to bawling. She was only
to be pacified when Jimmie Senior agreed to take off his wet clothes at once, and drink a cup
or two of boiling hot tea, and let himself be covered up with blankets, so that he might not
die of pneumonia before he could get to court.

Next morning there was a crowded court-room and a stern and solemn judge frowning over his
spectacles, and Lawyer Norwood making an impassioned defence of the fundamental American right
of free speech. It was so very thrilling that Jimmie could hardly be kept from applauding his
own lawyer! And then Comrade Dr. Service arose, and in his most impressive voice gave the professional
information that "Wild Bill's" nose had been broken, and three of his front teeth knocked out,
and that he was in the hospital and unable to come to court; and all the other prisoners were
called upon to testify what "Wild Bill" had done to bring this fate upon him. The policeman
who had struck the blow testified that the prisoner had resisted arrest; a second policeman
testified, "I seen the prisoner hit him first, your Honour,"--which caused Comrade Mabel Smith
to cry out, "Oh, the ungrammatical prevaricator!" The upshot of the trial was that each of
the defendants was fined ten dollars. Comrade Gerrity led off with an indignant refusal to
pay the fine; the rest of them followed suit--even Comrade Mabel! This caused evident distress
of mind to the judge, for Comrade Mabel with her indignant pink cheeks and her big picture-hat
looked more than ever the lady, and it is a fact known even to judges that American jails have
not been constructed for ladies. The matter was settled by Lawyer Norwood paying her fine,
in spite of her protests, and her demand to be sent to jail.

VI

The five men were led away, over the "Bridge of Sighs", as it was called, to the city jail,
where they had their pedigrees taken again, and their pictures and their finger-prints--which
for the first time impressed upon their minds the fact that they were dangerous criminals.
Their clothes were taken away, and shirts and trousers given them, whose faded blue colour
seemed to have been impregnated with the misery of scores of previous wearers. They were led
through steel-barred doors, and along dark, steel-barred passages to one of the "tanks". A
"tank", you discovered, was one floor of this four-storied packing box; on each side of it
were a row of a dozen barred cells, each with four bunks, so that the total maximum population
which might be crowded into the central space of the "tank" was ninety-six; however, this only
happened on Monday mornings, when the "drunks" had all been brought in, and before the courts
had had time to sort them out.

After you had lain down on your bunk for a few minutes, or had leaned against the wall of the
"tank", you felt an annoying stinging sensation somewhere on you. You began to rub and scratch;
before long you would be rubbing and scratching in a dozen different places, and then you would
observe your neighbour watching you with a grin. "Seam-squirrels?" he would say; and he would
bid you take off your coat, and engage in the popular hunting game of the institution. Jimmie
remembered having heard a speaker refer to the city jail as the "Leesville Louseranch"; he
had thought that a good joke at the time, but now it seemed otherwise to him.

It was splendid to stand up in court and to take your stand as a martyr; but now Jimmie discovered,
as many an unfortunate has discovered before him, that being a martyr is not the sport it is
cracked up to be. There were no heroics now, no singing. If you even so much as hummed, they
took you out and shut you up in a dark hole called the "cooler"! Nor could you read, for there
was no light in your cell, and perpetual twilight in the central gathering place of the "tank".
Apparently the only things the authorities of Leesville wished you to do were to hunt "seam-squirrels",
to smoke cigarettes, to "shoot craps", and to make the acquaintance of a variety of interesting
young criminals, so that when you were ready to resume your outside life you might decide whether
you wanted to be a hold-up man, a safe-cracker, a forger, or a second-story operator.

Jimmie Higgins, of course, brought a different psychology from that of the average jail-inmate.
Jimmie could do his kind of work just as well in jail as anywhere else; and barring the torment
of vermin, the diet of bread and thin coffee and ill-smelling greasy soup, and the worry about
his helpless family outside, he really had a happy time-making the acquaintance of tramps and
pickpockets, and explaining to them the revolutionary philosophy. A man who went in to remedy
social injustice all by himself could never get very far. It was only when he realized himself
as a member of a class, and stood as a class and acted as a class, that he could accomplish
a permanent result. Some of the workers had discovered this, and had set out to educate their
fellows. They brought the wondrous message, even to those in jail; holding out to them the
vision of a world made over in justice and kindness, the co-operative commonwealth of labour,
in which every man should get what he produced, and no man could exploit his fellows.

VII

Three days passed, and then one afternoon Jimmie was summoned to see a visitor. He could guess
who the visitor was, and he went with his heart in his throat, and looked through the dark
mesh of wire, and saw Lizzie standing--stout, motherly Lizzie, now very pale, and breathing
hard, and with tears running in little streamlets down her cheeks. Poor Lizzie, with her three
babies at home, and her plain, ordinary, non-revolutionary psychology, which made going to
jail a humiliation instead of a test of manhood, a badge of distinction! Jimmie felt a clutch
in his own throat, and an impulse to tear down the beastly wire mesh and clasp the dear motherly
soul in his arms. But all he could do was to screw his face into a dubious smile. Sure, he
was having the time of his life in this jail! He wouldn't have missed it for anything! He had
made a Socialist out of "Dead-eye Mike", and had got Pete Curley, a fancy "con" man, to promise
to read "War, What For?"

There was only one thing which had been troubling him, and that was, how his family was getting
on. They had had practically nothing in the house, he knew, and poor Meissner could not feed
four extra mouths. But Lizzie, also screwing her face into a smile, assured him that everything
was all right at home, there was no need to worry. In the first place, Comrade Dr. Service
had sent her a piece of paper with his name written on it; it appeared that this was called
a cheque, and the groceryman had exchanged it for a five dollar bill. And in the next place
there was a domestic secret which Lizzie had to confide--she had put by some money, without
letting Jimmie know it.

"But how?" cried Jimmie, in wonder--for he had thought he knew all about his household and
its expenses.

So Lizzie explained the trick she had played. Jimmie had committed an extravagance, treating
her to a new dress out of his increased earnings: a gorgeous contrivance of several colours,
looking like silk, even if it wasn't. Lizzie had stated that the cost was fifteen dollars,
and he, the dupe, had believed it! The truth was she had bought the dress in a second-hand
shop for three dollars, and had put twelve dollars away for the time of the strike!

And Jimmie went back to his "tank", shaking his head and philosophizing: "Gee! Can you beat
these women?"

CHAPTER VII

JIMMIE HIGGINS DALLIES WITH CUPID

I

The strike was over when Jimmie came out of jail; it had been settled by the double-barrelled
device of raising the wages of the men and putting their leaders behind bars. Jimmie presented
himself at his old place of working, and the boss told him to go to hell; so Jimmie went to
Hubbardtown, and stood in the long line of men waiting at the gate of the engine company. Jimmie
knew about black-lists, so when his time came to be questioned, he said his name was Joe Aronsky,
and he had last worked in a machine-shop in Pittsburg; he had come to Hubbardtown because he
had heard of high pay and good treatment. While he was answering these questions, he noticed
a man sitting in the corner of the room studying his face, and he saw the boss turn and glance
in that direction. The man shook his head, and the boss said: "Nothin' doin'." So Jimmie understood
that the Hubbard Engine Company was taking measures to keep its shops clear of the agitators
from Leesville.

He spent a couple of days trying other places in his home town, but all in vain--they had him
spotted. At the brewery they were slower than elsewhere--they took him on for two hours. Then
they found out his record, and "fired" him; and Jimmie "kidded" the boss, saying that they
were too late--he had already given a Socialist leaflet to every man in the room!

On Jefferson Street, an out of the way part of the town, was a bicycle-shop kept by an old
German named Kumme. One of the comrades told Jimmie that he wanted a helper, and Jimmie went
there and got a job at two dollars a day. That was poor pay at present prices, but Jimmie liked
the place, because his boss was a near-Socialist, a pacifist--for all countries except Germany.
He got round it by saying that every nation had a right to defend itself; and Germany was the
nation which had been attacked in this war. A good part of the energies of the old man went
into proving this to his customers; if there were any customers who did not like it, they could
go elsewhere.

Those who came were largely Germans, and so Jimmie was kept fully supplied with arguments against
the munitions industry, which they called a trade in murder, and in favour of the programme
of "Feed America First". Among those who frequented the place was Jerry Coleman, who was still
on the job, and as well supplied with ten-dollar bills as ever. He had now revealed himself
as an organizer for a new propaganda society, called "Labour's National Peace Council". Inasmuch
as Labour and Peace were the phrases upon which Jimmie lived, he saw no reason why he should
not back this organization. Coleman assured Jimmie he hated the Kaiser, but that the German
"people" must be defended. So Jimmie became, without having the least idea of it, one of the
agencies whereby the Kaiser was subsidizing social discontent in America.

But Jimmie was more careful now in his agitations. He had brought such distress into his home
by his jail sentence, that he had been forced to make promises to Lizzie. Her anxiety for her
children could no longer be kept to herself; and this caused a certain amount of friction between
them, and sent Jimmie out grumbling at his lot in life. What was the use of trying to educate
a woman, who could see no farther than her own kitchen-stove? When you wanted to be a world-saviour,
to walk tip-toe on the misty mountain-tops of heroism, she dragged you down and chained you
to the commonplace, taking all the zest and fervour out of your soul! The memories of "seam-squirrels"
and of thin coffee and ill-smelling and greasy soup had slipped somewhat into the background
of Jimmie's mind, and he lived again the sublime hour when he had confronted the court and
stood for the fundamental rights of an American citizen. He wanted to have that act of daring
appreciated at its true value. Poor, blind, home-keeping Lizzie, who could not fulfil these
deeper needs of her husband's soul!

Jimmie had been, so far in his married life, as well domesticated as could be expected of a
proletarian propagandist. He had yearned to own a home of his own, and meantime had manifested
his repressed wish by getting a big packing-box and some broken shingles, and building a model
play-house for Jimmie Junior in the back yard. He had even found time on his tired and crowded
Sundays to start a garden in midsummer, the season when the local was least active. But now,
of course, the war had come to obsess his mind, driving him to terror for the future of humanity,
tempting him to martyrdoms and domestic irritations.

II

It was at this critical period in Jimmie's life that there appeared in Leesville a vivid young
person by the name of Evelyn Baskerville. Evelyn was no tired kitchen slave--with her fluffy
brown hair, her pert little dimples, her trim figure, her jaunty hat with a turkey feather
stuck on one side of her head. Evelyn was a stenographer and proclaimed herself an advanced
feminist; at her first visit she set the local upside down. It happened to be "social evening",
when all the men smoked, and this "free" young thing took a cigarette from her escort and puffed
it all over the place. This, of course, would not have made a stir in great centres of culture
such as London and Greenwich Village; but in Leesville it was the first time that the equality
of women had been interpreted to mean that the women should adopt the vices of the men.

Then Evelyn had produced from her handbag some leaflets on Birth Control, and proposed that
the local should undertake their distribution. This was a new subject in Leesville, and while
the members supposed it was all right, they found it embarrassing to have the matter explained
too fully in open meeting. Evelyn wanted a "birth strike", as the surest means of ending the
war; she wanted the Worker to take up this programme, and did not conceal her contempt for
reactionaries in the movement who still wanted to pretend that babies were brought by storks.
The delicate subject was finally "tabled", and when the meeting adjourned and the members walked
home, everyone was talking about Miss Baskerville--the men mostly talking with the men, and
the women with the women.

Pretty soon it became evident that the vivid and dashing young person was setting her cap for
Comrade Gerrity, the organizer. As Gerrity was an eligible young bachelor, that was all right.
But then, a little later, it began to be suspected that she had designs upon Comrade Claudel,
the Belgian jeweller. Doubtless she had a right to make her choice between them; but some of
the women were of the opinion that she took too long to choose; and finally one or two malicious
ones began to say that she had no intention of choosing--she wanted both.

And then fell a thunderbolt into Jimmie's life. It was just after his arrest when fame still
clung to him; and after the meeting Comrade Baskerville came up and engaged him in conversation.
How did it feel to be a jailbird? When he told her that it felt fine, she bade him not be too
proud--she had served thirty days for picketing in a shirt-waist strike! As she looked at him,
her pretty brown eyes sparkled with mischief, and her wicked little dimples lost no curtain-calls.
Poor, humble Jimmie was stirred to his shoe-tips, for he had never before received the attentions
of such a fascinating creature--unless perchance it had been to sell her a newspaper, or to
beg the price of a sandwich in his tramp days. Here was one of the wonderful things about the
Socialist movement, that it broke down the barriers of class, and gave you exciting glimpses
of higher worlds of culture and charm!

Comrade Baskerville continued to flash her dimples and her wit at Jimmie, despite the fact
that Comrade Gerrity and Comrade Claudel and several other moths were hovering about the candle-flame,
and all the women in the local watching out of the corners of their eyes. Finally, to Jimmie's
unutterable consternation, the vivid young goddess of Liberty inquired, "Wouldn't you like
to walk home with me, Comrade Higgins?" He stammered, "Yes"; and they went out, the young goddess
plying him with questions about conditions in the jail, and displaying most convincing erudition
on the subject of the economic aspects of criminology--at the same time seeming entirely oblivious
to the hoverings of the other moths, and the disgust of the unemancipated ladies of Local Leesville.

III

They walked down the street together, and first Comrade Baskerville shivered with horror at
the "seam-squirrels", and then exclaimed with delight over the conversion of "Dead-eye Mike"
to Socialism, and then made merry over the singing of the Internationale in the police-station.
Had she discovered a "character" in this seemingly insignificant little machinist? At any rate,
she plied him with questions about his past life and his ideas. When he told her of his starved
and neglected childhood, she murmured sympathetically, and it seemed to the fascinated Jimmie
that here was a woman who understood instinctively all the cravings of his soul. She laid her
hand on his arm, and it was as if an angel were touching him--strange little thrills ran like
currents of electricity all over him.

Yes, Comrade Baskerville could appreciate his sufferings, because she had suffered too. She
had had a stepmother, and had run away from home at an early age and fought her own way. That
was why she stood so firmly for woman's emancipation--she knew the slavery of her sex through
bitter experience. There were many men who believed in sex-equality as a matter of words, but
had no real conception of it in action; as for the women--well, you might see right here in
the local the most narrow, bourgeois ideas dominating their minds. Jimmie did not know what
ideas Comrade Baskerville meant, but he knew that her voice was musical and full of quick changes
that made him shiver.

He was supposed to be taking her home; but he had no idea where she lived, and apparently she
had no idea either, for they just wandered on and on, talking about all the wonderful new ideas
that were stirring the minds of men and women. Did Comrade Higgins believe in trial marriages?
Comrade Higgins had never heard of this wild idea before, but he listened, and bravely concealed
his dismay. What about the children? The eager feminist answered there need not be any children.
Unwanted children were a crime! She proposed to get the working-class women together and instruct
them in the technique of these delicate matters; and meantime, lacking the women, she was willing
to explain it to any inwardly embarrassed and quaking man who would lend his ear.

Suddenly she stopped and cried, "Where are we?" And there came a peal of merry laughter, as
she discovered they had gone far astray. They turned and set off in the right direction, and
meantime the lecture on advanced feminism continued. Poor Jimmie was in a panic--tumbled this
way and that. He had considered himself a radical, because he believed in expropriating the
expropriators; but these plans for overthrowing the conventions and disbanding the home--these
left him aghast. And trilled into his ear by a vivid and amazing young thing with a soft hand
upon his arm and a faint intoxicating perfume all about her! Why was she telling these things
to him? What did she mean? What? WHAT?

IV

They came to the house where she lived. It was late at night, and the street was deserted.
It was up to Jimmie to say good night, but somehow he did not know how to say it. Comrade Evelyn
gave him her hand, and for some reason did not take it away again. Of course it would not have
been polite for Jimmie to have pushed it away. So he held it, and looked at the shadowy form
before him, and felt his knees shaking. "Comrade Higgins," said the brave, girlish voice, "we
shall be friends, shall we not?" And of course, Jimmie answered that they would--always! And
the girlish voice replied, "I am GLAD!" And then suddenly it whispered, "Good night!" and the
shadowy form turned and flitted into the house.

Jimmie walked away with the strangest tumult in his soul. It was something which the poets
had been occupied for centuries in trying to portray, but Jimmie Higgins had no acquaintance
with the poets, and so it was a brand new thing to him, he was left to experience the shock
of it and to resolve the problems of it all alone. To be rolled and tossed about like a man
in a blanket at a college ragging! To be a prey to bewilderment and fear, hope and longing,
despair and rebellion, delicious excitement, angry self-contempt and tormenting doubt! Truly
did that poet divine who first conceived the symbol of the mischievous little god, who steals
upon an unsuspecting man and shoots him through the heart with a sharp and tormenting arrow!

The worst of it was, Jimmie couldn't tell Lizzie about it. The first time in four years that
he had had a trouble he could not tell Lizzie! He even felt ashamed, as he came home and crawled
into bed--as if he had done some dreadful wrong to Lizzie; and yet, he would have been puzzled
to tell just what the wrong was, or how he could have avoided it. It was not he who had made
the young feminist so delicious and sweet and frank and amazing. It was not he who had made
the little god, and brewed the poison for the arrow's tip. No, it was some power greater than
himself that had prepared this situation, some power cruel and implacable, which plots against
domestic tranquillity; perhaps it was some hireling of capitalism, which will not permit a
propagandist of social justice to do his work in peace of soul.

Jimmie tried to hide what was going on; and of course--poor, naive soul--he had never learned
to hide anything in his life, and now was too late to begin. The next time the local met, the
women were saying that they were disappointed in Comrade Higgins; they had thought he was really
devoted to the cause, but they saw now he was like all the rest of the men--his head had been
turned by one smile on a pretty face. Instead of attending to his work, he was following that
Baskerville creature about, gazing at her yearningly, like a moon-calf, making a ninny of himself
before the whole room. And he with a wife and three babies at home, waiting for him and thinking
he was hustling for the cause. When the meeting adjourned, and the Baskerville creature accepted
the invitation of Comrade Gerrity to escort her home, the dismay of Comrade Higgins was so
evident as to be ludicrous to the whole room.

V

In the interest of common decency it was necessary for the women of the local to take action
on this matter. At least, a couple of them thought so, and quite independently and without
pre-arrangement they called on Lizzie next day and told her that she should come more frequently
to meetings, and keep herself acquainted with the new ideas of advanced feminism. And so when
Jimmie came home that night, he found his wife dissolved in tears and there was a most harrowing
scene.

For poor Elizabeth Huszar, pronounced Eleeza Betooser, had had no chance whatever to familiarize
herself with the new ideas of advanced feminism. Her notions of "free unions" had been derived
from a quite different world, whose ideas were not new, but on the contrary very, very old,
and were "advanced" only on the road to perdition. She judged Jimmie's behaviour according
to thoroughly old standards, and she was broken-hearted, overwhelmed with grief and shame.
He was like all the rest of men--and when she had fondly thought he was different! He despised
her and spit upon her--a woman he had picked up in a brothel.

Poor Jimmie was stunned. He was conscious of no disrespect for Lizzie, it had not occurred
to him to think that she might take the matter that way. But so she had taken it, beyond doubt,
and with intensity that frightened him. He would not have believed that so many tears could
stream from one woman's eyes--nor that his good, broad-faced, honest wife could be so abject
in her misery. "Oh, I knowed it, I knowed it all along--it would be that way! I hadn't never
ought to married you--you know I told you so?"

"But, Lizzie!" pleaded the husband. "You're mistaken. That hadn't nothin' to do with it."

She turned upon him wildly, her fingers stuck out as if she would claw him. "You mean to tell
me if you hadn't 'a married a woman off the street, you'd 'a gone chasin' a fluffy-haired girl?
If you'd 'a had a decent wife, that you knowed had some rights--"

"Lizzie!" he protested in consternation. "Listen here--"

But she was not to be stopped. "Everybody said I was a fool; but I went an' done it, 'cause
you swore you'd never hold it up to me! An' I went an' had them children"--Lizzie swept her
arm at the children, as if to wipe them off the earth, to which they had come by a cruel mistake.

Jimmie Junior, who was old enough to know that something serious was happening, and whose instinct
was all against being wiped off the earth, began to howl wildly; and that set off the little
ones--soon they were all three of them going at the top of their lungs. "Boo-hoo-hoo!"

It was truly a terrible climax to a romance. Jimmie, almost distracted, seized the hand of
his injured spouse. "It's all nonsense!" he cried. "What they been tellin' you! I ain't done
a thing, Lizzie! I only walked home with her one night."

But Lizzie answered that one night was plenty enough--she knew that from intimate and hateful
experience. "And I know them fluffy-headed kind that frizzes their hair. What does she want
to walk home at night with married men fer? And talkin' about the things she does--"

"She don't mean no harm, Lizzie--she's tryin' to help workin' women. It's what's called birth
control--she wants to teach women--"

"If she wants to TEACH women, why don't she TALK to the women! What's she all the time talkin'
to MEN fer? You think you can tell me tales like that--me, that's been what I have?" And Lizzie
went off into another fit, worse than ever.

VI

Jimmie found that it was with romance as with martyrdom--there was a lot of trouble about it
which the romancers did not mention. He really felt quite dreadful, for he had a deep regard
for this mother of his little ones, and he would not have made her suffer for anything. And
she was right, too, he had to admit--her shots went deep home. "How'd you feel, if you was
to find out I'd been walkin' home with some man?" When it was put to him that way, he realized
that he would have felt very badly indeed.

A flood of old emotions came back to him. He went in memory with his group of roystering friends
to the house of evil where he had first met Elizabeth Huszar, pronounced Eleeza Betooser. She
had taken him to her room, and instead of making herself agreeable in the usual way, had burst
into tears. She had been ill-treated, and was wretchedly lonely and unhappy. Jimmie asked why
she did not quit the life, and she answered that she had tried more than once, but she could
not earn a living wage; and anyhow, because she was big and handsome, the bosses would never
let her alone, and what was the difference, if you couldn't keep away from the men?

They sat on the bed and talked, and Jimmie told her a little about his life, and she told about
hers--a pitiful and moving story. She had been brought to America as an infant; her father
had been killed in an accident, and her mother had supported several children by scrub-work.
Lizzie had grown up in a slum on the far east side of New York, and she could not remember
a time when she had not been sexually preyed upon; lewd little boys had taught her tricks,
and men would buy her with candy or food. And yet there had been something in her struggling
for decency; of her own volition she had tried to go to school, in spite of her rags; and then,
when she was thirteen she had answered an advertisement for work as a nursemaid. That story
had made an especial impression upon Jimmie--it was truly a most pitiful episode.

Her place of employment had been a "swell" apartment, with a hall-boy and an elevator--the
most wonderful place that Lizzie had ever beheld; it was like living in Heaven, and she had
tried so hard to do what she was told, and be worthy of her beautiful mistress and the lovely
baby. But she had been there only two days when the mistress had discovered vermin on the baby,
and had come to Lizzie and insisted on examining her head. And of course she had found something.
"Them's only nits!" Lizzie had said; she had never heard of anybody who did not have "nits"
in their hair. But the beautiful lady had called her a vile creature, and ordered her to pack
up her things and get out of the house at once. And so Lizzie had had to wait until she became
an inmate of a brothel before anybody took the trouble to teach her how to get the "nits" out
of her hair, and how to bathe, and to clean her finger-nails and otherwise be physically decent.

Jimmie recalled all that, and he fell on his knees before his wife, and caught her two hands
by main force, and swore to her that he had not done any wrong; he went on to tell her exactly
what wrong he had done, which was the best way to convince her that he had not done any worse.
He vowed again and again that he would never, never dally with Cupid again--he would see Comrade
Baskerville at once and tell her it was "all off".

And so Lizzie looked up through her tears. "No," she said, "you don't need to see her at all!"

"What shall I do, then?'"

"Just let her alone--don't tell her nothin'. She'll know it's off all right."

VII

But when you have a dead romance, you cannot leave it to rot on the highway; you are driven
irresistibly to bury it decently. In spite of his solemn promises, Jimmie found himself thinking
all the time about Comrade Baskerville, and how he would act when he met her next time--all
the noble and dignified speeches he would make to her. He must manage to be alone with her;
for of course he could not say such things with the jealous old hags of the local staring at
him. The best thing, he decided, would be to tell her the frank and honest truth; to tell her
about Lizzie, and how good and worthy she had been, and how deeply he realized his duty to
her. And then tears would come into Comrade Baskerville's lovely eyes, and she would tell him
that she honoured his high sense of marital responsibility. They must renounce; but of course
they would be dear and true friends--always, always. Jimmie was holding her hands, in his fancy,
as he said these affecting words: Always! Always! He knew that he would have to let go of the
hands, but he was reluctant to do so, and he had not quite got to the point of doing it when,
walking down Jefferson Street on his way home from work--behold, in front of him a trim, eager
little figure, tripping gaily, with a jaunty hat with a turkey-feather stuck on one side! Jimmie
knew the figure a block away, and as he saw it coming nearer, his heart leaped up and hit him
in the bottom part of his neck, and all his beautiful speeches flew helter-skelter out of his head.

She saw him, and the vivid, welcoming smile came upon her face. She came up to him, and their
hands clasped. "Why!" she cried. "What a pleasant meeting!"

Jimmie gulped twice, and then began, "Comrade Baskerville--" And then he gulped again, and
began, "Comrade Baskerville--"

She stopped him. "I'm not Comrade Baskerville," she declared.

He could not get the meaning of these unexpected words.

"What?" he said.

"Haven't you heard the news?" she said, and beamed on him. "I'm Comrade Mrs. Gerrity."

He stared at her, utterly bewildered. "I've been that for twenty-four whole hours! Congratulate
me!"

Little by little the meaning of the words began to dawn in Jimmie's stupid head. "Comrade Mrs.
Gerrity!" he echoed. "But--but--I thought you didn't believe in marriage."

There came the most bewitching smile, a smile decorated with two rows of pearly white teeth.
"Don't you understand, Comrade Higgins? No woman believes in marriage--until she meets the
right man."

This was much too subtle. Jimmie was still gaping open-mouthed. "But then, I thought--I thought--"
he stopped again; for in truth, he had not known quite what he thought, and anyway, it seemed
futile to try to formulate it now.

But, of course, she knew, without his telling her; she knew the meaning of his look of dismay,
and of his stammering words. Being a kind little creature, she laid her hand on his arm. "Comrade
Higgins," she said, "don't think I'm too mean!"

"Mean?" he cried. "Why, no! What? How--"

"Try to imagine you were a girl, Comrade Higgins. You can't propose to a man, can you?"

"Why, no--that is--"

"That is, not if you want him to accept! You have to make him do it. And maybe he's shy, and
don't do it, and you have to put the idea in his head for him. Or maybe he's not sure he wants
you, and you have to make him realize how very desirable you are! Maybe you have to scare him,
making him think you're going to run off with somebody else! Don't you see how it is with a girl?"

Jimmie was still bady dazed, but he saw enough to enable him to stammer, "Yes." And Comrade
Baskerville--that is, Comrade Mrs. Gerrity--gave him her hand again.

"Comrade Higgins," she said, "you're a dear, sweet fellow, and you won't be too angry with
me, will you? We'll be friends, won't we, Comrade Higgins?"

And Jimmie clasped the soft, warm hand, and gazed into the shining brown eyes, and he made
a part of the wonderful speech which he had been planning as he walked. He said: "Always! Always!"

CHAPTER VIII

JIMMIE HIGGINS PUTS HIS FOOT IN IT

I

The world struggle continued with constantly increasing ferocity. All summer long the Germans
hammered at the French and British lines; while the British hammered at the gates of Constantinople,
and the Italians at the gates of Trieste. The Germans sent their giant airships to drop loads
of bombs on London and their submarines to sink passenger-steamers and hospital-ships. Each
fresh outrage against international law became the occasion of more letters of protest from
the United States, and of more controversies in the newspapers, and in Congress, and in Kumme's
bicycle-shop on Jefferson Street, Leesville.

In this last place, to be sure, the discussions were rather one-sided. Practically all who
came there regarded the munitions industry as an accursed thing, and made no secret of their
glee at the misfortunes which befell it; at shipyards which caught fire and burned up, at railroad
bridges and ships at sea destroyed by mysterious explosions. Kumme, a wizened-up, grizzle-haired
old fellow with a stubby nose and a bullet-head, would fall to cursing in a mingling of English
and German when anyone so much as mentioned the fleets of ships that went across the water,
loaded with shells to kill German soldiers; he would point a skinny finger at whoever would
listen to him, declaring that the Germans in this country were not slaves, and would protect
their Fatherland from the perfidious British and their Wall Street hirelings. Kumme took a
newspaper printed in German, and a couple of weeklies published in English for the promotion
of the German cause; he would mark passages in these papers and read them aloud--everything
that the mind of man could recall or invent that was discreditable to Britain, to France and
Italy, to Wall Street, and to the nation which allowed Wall Street to bamboozle and exploit
it. There were many Americans who had "muck-raked" their own country in the interests of social
reform, and had praised the social system of Germany. These arguments the German propagandists
now found useful, and Jimmie would take them to the Socialist local and pass them about. From
the meeting of the local he and Meissner would go to the saloon where they had rendezvous with
Jerry Coleman, who would distribute more ten-dollar bills to be used in the printing of anti-war
literature.

Old Kumme had a nephew by the name of Heinrich, who paid him a visit now and then. He was a
tall, fine-looking fellow, who spoke much better English than his uncle, and wore better clothes.
Finally he came to stay, and Kumme announced that he was to help in the shop. They didn't need
any help that Jimmie could see, and certainly not from a fellow like Heinrich, who couldn't
tell a spoke from a handle-bar; but it was none of Jimmie's business, so Heinrich put on working
clothes, and spent a couple of weeks sitting behind the counter conversing in low tones with
men who came to see him. After a while he took to going out again, and finally announced that
he had secured a job in the Empire.

II

And then to the hangers-on in the shop there was another addition--an Irish working man named
Reilly. The Irishman was a peculiar problem in the war--the thorn of the Allied conscience,
the weak spot in their armour, the broken link in their chain of arguments; and so every German
was happy when an Irishman entered the room. This fellow Reilly came to have a punctured tyre
mended, and stopped to tell what he thought about the world-situation. Old man Kumme slapped
him over the back, and shook him by the hand, and told him he was the right sort, and to come
again. So Reilly took to hanging about; he would pull from his pocket a paper called Hibernia,
and Kummc would produce from under the counter a paper called Germania, and the two would denounce
"perfidious Albion" by the hour. Jimmie, bending over the straightening of a sprocket, would
look up and grin, and exclaim, "You bet!"

It was winter-time, and darkness came early, and Jimmie was doing his work by electric light
in the back of the shop, when Reilly came and mysteriously drew him into a corner. Did he really
mean what he said about hatred of war, and willingness to fight against it? The Empire Shops
were now turning out thousands of shell-casings every day, to be used in the murder of men.
It was useless to try to start a strike, there were so many spies at work, and they fired every
man who opened his mouth; if an outsider tried it they would send him to jail--for, of course,
old Granitch had the city government in his vest-pocket.

All this was an old story to Jimmie; but now the Irishman went on to a new proposition. There
was a way to stop the work of the Empire, a way that had been tried in other places, and had
worked. Reilly knew where to get some T.N.T.--an explosive many times more powerful than dynamite.
They could make bombs out of the steel tubing of bicycles, and Jimmie, knowing the Empire Shops
as he did, could find a way to get in and arrange matters. There was big money in it--the fellows
who did that job might live on Easy Street the rest of their lives.

Jimmie was stunned. He had been perfectly sincere in classifying German spies with sea-serpents;
and here was a sea-serpent right before his eyes, raising his head through the floor of Kumme's
bicycle-shop!

Jimmie answered that he had never had anything to do with that sort of thing. That wasn't the
way to stop war; that was only making more war. The other began to argue with him, showing
that it wouldn't hurt anybody; the explosion would take place at night, and all that would
be damaged would be Abel Granitch's purse. But Jimmie was obdurate; fortunately one thing that
had been incessantly pounded into his head at the local was that the movement could not use
conspiracy, it must work by open propaganda, winning the minds and consciences of men.

First the Irishman became angry, and called him a coward and a molly-coddle. Then he became
suspicious, and wanted to know if Jimmie would sell him out to the Empire. Jimmie laughed at
this; he had no love for Abel Granitch--the damned old skunk might do his own spying. Jimmie
would simply have nothing to do with the matter, one way or the other. And so the project was
dropped; but the little machinist was moved to keep his eyes open after that, and he made note
of how many Germans, all strangers, were making the shop a meeting-place; also the quick intimacy
which had developed between the Irishman and Heinrich, Kumme's nephew, who held himself so
straight and had no back to his head.

Matters came to a climax with startling suddenness--the explosion of a bomb, though not the
kind which Jimmie was expecting. It was an evening in February, just as he was about to close
up, when he saw the door of the shop open, and four men walk in. They came with a peculiar,
business-like air, two of them to the puzzled Jimmie, and the other two to Kumme. One turned
back the lapel of his coat, showing a large gold star, and announcing, "I am an agent of the
government, and you are under arrest." And at the same time the other seized Jimmie's arms
and slipped a pair of handcuffs over his wrists. He passed his hands over his prisoner, a ceremony
known as "frisking"; and at the same time the other men had seized Kumme. Jimmie saw two more
men enter at the rear door of the shop, but they had nothing to do, for both Jimmie and Kumme
had been too much startled to make any move to escape.

They were led out to an automobile, shoved in and whirled away. No questions were answered,
so after a bit they stopped asking questions and sat still, reflecting upon all the sins they
had ever committed in their lives, and upon the chances of these sins being known to the police.

III

Jimmie thought he was going to jail, of course; but instead they took him to the Post Office
building, to an upstairs room. Kumme was taken to another room, and Jimmie did not see him
again; all that Jimmie had time to know or to think about was a stern-faced young man who sat
at a desk and put him on a griddle. "It is my duty to inform you that everything you state
may be used against you," said this young man; and then, without giving Jimmie a chance to
grasp the meaning of these words he began firing questions at him. All through the ordeal the
two detectives stood by his side, and in a corner of the room, at another desk, a stenographer
was busily recording what he said. Jimmie knew there were such things as stenographers--for
had he not come near falling in love with one only a short time before?

"Your name?" said the stern-faced young man; and then, "Where do you live?" And then, "Tell
me all you know about this bomb-conspiracy."

"But I don't know nothin'!" cried Jimmie.

"You are in the hands of the Federal government," replied the young man, "and your only chance
will be to make a clean breast. If you will help us, you may get off."

"But I don't know nothin'!" cried Jimmie, again.

"You have heard talk about dynamiting the Empire Shops?"

"Y--yes, sir."

"Who?"

"A man--" Jimmie got that far, and then he recollected the promise he had given. "I--I can't
tell!" he said.

"Why not?"

"It wouldn't be right."

"Do you believe in dynamiting buildings?"

"No, sir!" Jimmie put into this reply a note of tense sincerity, and so the other began to
argue with him. Atrocious crimes had been committed all over the country, and the government
wished to put a stop to them; surely it was the duty of a decent citizen to give what help
he could. Jimmie listened until a sweat of anxiety stood out on his forehead; but he could
not bring himself to "peach" on fellow working men. No, not if he were sent to jail for ten
or twenty years, as the stern-faced young man told him might happen.

"You told Reilly you wouldn't have anything to do with bombs?" asked the young man; and Jimmie
answered "Sure, I did!" And his poor head was so addled that he didn't even realize that in
his reply he had told what he had been vowing he would never tell!

The questioner seemed to know all about everything, so it was easy for him to lead Jimmie to
tell how he had heard Kumme cursing the Empire Shops, and the country, and the President; how
he had seen Kumme whispering to Reilly, and to Germans whose names he had not learned, and
how he had seen Heinrich, Kumme's nephew, cutting up lengths of steel tubing. Then the questioner
asked about Jerry Coleman. How much money had Jimmie got, and just what had he done with it?
Jimmie refused to name other people; but when the young man made the insinuation that Jimmie
might have kept some of the money for himself, the little machinist exclaimed with passionate
intensity--not one dollar had he kept, nor his friend Meissner either; they had given statements
to Jerry Coleman, and this though many a time they had been hard up for their rent. The police
could ask Comrade Gerrity and Comrade Mary Allen, and the other members of the local.

So the questioner led Jimmie on to talk about the Germans in the movement. Schneider, the brewer,
for example--he was one of those who cursed the Allies most vehemently, and he had been in
this bomb-conspiracy. Jimmie was indignant; Comrade Schneider was as good a Socialist as you
could find, and Socialists had nothing to do with bombs! But young Emil Forster--he had been
making explosives in his spare hours, had he not? At which Jimmie became still more outraged.
He knew young Emil well; the boy was a carpet-designer and musician, and if anybody had told
such tales about him, they were lying, that was all. The questioner went on for an hour or
so, tormenting poor Jimmie with such doubts and fears; until finally he dropped a little of
his sternness of manner, and told Jimmie that he had merely been trying him out, to see what
he knew about various men whose pro-German feelings had brought them under suspicion. No, the
government had no evidence of crime against Schneider or Forster, or any of the bona-fide Socialists.
They were just plain fools, letting themselves be used as tools of German plotters, who were
spending money like water to make trouble in munition factories all over the country.

IV

The questioner, who explained himself as a "special agent" of the Department of Justice, went
on to read Jimmie a lecture. A sincere man like himself ought to be ashamed to let himself
be taken in by German conspirators, who were trying to break up American industry, to lead
American labour by the nose.

"But they want to stop the making of munitions!" cried Jimmie.

"But's that's only so that Germany can make more munitions!"

"But I'm opposed to their being made in Germany, too!"

"What can you do to stop it in Germany?"

"I'm an international Socialist. When I oppose war in my own country, I help the Socialists
to oppose it in other countries. I ain't a-going to stop--not so long as I've got any breath
left in me!" And here was Comrade Jimmie, delivering a sermon on pacifism to the "special agent"
of the government, who held his fate in his hands! But no one was going to defend war to Jimmie
Higgins and not be answered--even though Jimmie might go to jail for the rest of his life!

The young man laughed--more genially than Jimmie would have thought possible at the start of
this grilling. "Higgins," he said, "you're a good-natured idiot. You can thank your lucky stars
that one of the men you trusted happened to be a government detective. If we didn't know the
truth about you, you might have had a hard time clearing yourself."

Jimmie's jaw had fallen. "A government detective! Who is the government detective?"

"Reilly," said the young man.

"Reilly? But it was him that tempted me!"

"Well, congratulate yourself that you resisted temptation!"

"But maybe he tempted Heinrich, too!"

"No, Heinrich didn't have to be tempted. It was on account of Heinrich that we began the investigation.
He has been making explosives and planting them all over the country. His name isn't Heinrich,
and he isn't a nephew of Kumme; his name is von Holtz, and he's a Prussian officer, a personal
friend of the Kaiser."

Jimmie was speechless. For the love of Mike! He had been sitting in the back part of old Kumme's
bicycle-shop, filling his pipe from the tobacco-pouch of a personal friend of the Kaiser. He
had called this personal friend of the Kaiser a fool and a jackass, informing him that a real
mechanic could put a ball-bearing together while he, the personal friend of the Kaiser, was
spitting on his hands. Could you beat it?

Mr. Harrod, the "special agent", informed Jimmie that he would have to testify as to what he
knew; and Jimmie was so indignant at the way he had been taken in that he was willing to do
so. He would have to give bond to appear, added the other; did he know anyone who would vouch
for him? Jimmie racked his harassed brain. Comrade Dr. Service might consent, if he were quite
sure that Jimmie had not really meant to help the Germans. Mr. Harrod kindly consented to give
this assurance, and called up Dr. Service, whom he seemed to know, and told him the circumstances.
Dr. Service finally said that he would put up a couple of thousand dollars to guarantee Jimmie's
appearance before the grand jury and at the trial. Mr. Harrod added that if Dr. Service would
promise to come in the morning and attend to the matter, the government would take his word
and let the witness go for the night. The doctor promised, and Jimmie was told that he was
free till ten o'clock next morning. He went out like a skylark escaping from a cage!

V

He had been warned not to talk to anyone, so he told Lizzie that he had been kept late to make
repairs on a motor-cycle. And next morning he got up at the usual hour, to avoid exciting suspicion,
and went and stared at the shop, which was locked up, with a policeman on guard. He bought
a copy of the Leesville Herald, and read the thrilling story of the German plot which had been
unearthed in Leesville. There were half a dozen conspirators under arrest, and more than a
dozen bombs had been found, all destined to be set off in the Empire Shops. Franz Heinrich
von Holtz, who had blown up a bridge in Canada and put an infernal machine on board a big Atlantic
liner, had been nailed at last!

Half an hour before time, Jimmie was waiting at the Post Office building, and when Comrade
Dr. Service arrived, they went in and signed the bond. Coming out again, the grim and forbidding
doctor ordered Jimmie into his car, and oh, what a dressing-down he did give him! He had Jimmie
where he wanted him--right over his knees--and before he let him up he surely did make him
burn! The little machinist had been so cock-sure of himself; going ahead to end the war, by
stopping the shipping of munitions, and paying no heed to warnings from men older and wiser
than himself! And now see what he had got himself in for--arrested with a gang of fire-bugs
and desperadoes, under the control and in the pay of a personal friend of the Kaiser!

Poor Jimmie couldn't put up much of a defence: he was cowed, for once. He could only say that
he had had no evil intention--he had merely been agitating against the trade in munitions--a
wicked thing--

"Wicked?" broke in the Comrade Doctor. "The thing upon which the freedom of mankind depends!"

"W--what?" exclaimed Jimmie; for these words sounded to him like sheer lunacy.

The other explained. "A nation that means to destroy its neighbours sets to work and puts all
its energies into making guns and shells. The free peoples of the world won't follow suit--you
can't persuade them to do it, because they don't believe in war, they can't realize that their
neighbours intend to make war. So, when they are attacked their only chance for life is to
go out into the open market and buy the means of defence. And you propose to deprive them of
that right--to betray them, to throw them under the hoofs of the war-monster! You, who call
yourself a believer in justice, make yourself a tool of such a conspiracy! You take German money--"

"I never took no German money!" cried Jimmie, wildly.

"Didn't Kumme pay you money?"

"But I worked in his shop--I done my ten hours a day right straight!"

"And this fellow Jerry Coleman? Hasn't he given you money?"

"But that was for propaganda--he was agent for Labour's National Peace Council--"

And the Comrade Doctor fairly snorted. "How could you be such an ass? Don't you read the news?
But no--of course, you don't--you only read German dope!" And the Comrade Doctor drew out his
pocket-book, which was bursting with clippings, and selected one from a New York paper, telling
how the government was proceeding against the officials of an organization called "Labour's
National Peace Council" for conspiring to cause strikes and violence. The founder of the organization
was a person known as "the Wolf of Wall Street"; the funds had been furnished by a Prussian
army officer, an attache of the German legation, who had used his official immunity to incite
conspiracy and wholesale destruction of property in a friendly country. What had Jimmie to
say to that?

And poor Jimmie for once had nothing to say. He sat, completely crushed. Not merely the money
which he had got from Kumme on Saturday night, but also the ten-dollar bills which Jerry Coleman
had been slipping into his hand--they, too, had come from the Kaiser! Was the whole radical
movement to be taken over by the Kaiser, and Jimmie Higgins put out of his job?

CHAPTER IX

JIMMIE HIGGINS RETURNS TO NATURE

I

Kumme's bicycle-shop went out of business, and its contents were sold at auction. Jimmie Higgins
watched the process wistfully, reflecting how, if he had not wasted his substance on Socialist
tracts, if he had saved a bit of his wages like any normal human being, he might have bought
this little business and got a start in life. But alas, such hopes were not for Jimmie! He
must remain in the condition which the President of his country described as "industrial serfdom";
he must continue to work for some other man's profit, to be at the mercy of some other man's whim.

He found himself a job in the railroad shops; but in a couple of weeks came an organizer, trying
to start a union in the place. Jimmie, of course, joined; how could he refuse? And so the next
time he went to get his pay he found a green slip in his envelope informing him that the Atlantic
Western Railroad Company would no longer require his services. No explanation was given, and
none sought--for Jimmie was old in the ways of American wage-slavery, euphemistically referred
to as "industrial serfdom".

He got another start as helper to a truckman. It was the hardest work he had yet done--all
the harder because the boss was a dull fellow who would not talk about politics or the war.
So Jimmie was discontented; perhaps the spring-time was getting into his blood; at any rate,
he hunted through his Sunday paper, and came on an advertisement of a farmer who wanted a "hand".
It was six miles out in the country, and Jimmie, remembering his walk with the Candidate, treated
himself to a Sunday afternoon excursion. He knew nothing about farm-work, and said so; but
the munition-factories had drained so much labour from the land that the farmer was glad to
get anybody. He had a "tenant-house" on his place, and on Monday morning Jimmie hired his former
boss--and truckman--to move his few sticks of furniture; he bade farewell to his little friend
Meissner, and next day was learning to milk cows and steer a plough.

So Jimmie came back to the bosom of his ancient Mother. But alas, he came, not to find joy
and health, not as a free man, to win his own way and make a new life for himself; he came
as a soil-slave, to drudge from dawn to dark for a hire that barely kept him going. The farmer
was the owner of Jimmie's time, and Jimmie disliked him heartily, because he was surly-tempered
and stingy, abusing his horses and nagging at his hired man. Jimmie's education in farm-economics
was not thorough enough to enable him to realize that John Cutter was as much of a slave as
himself--bound by a mortgage to Ashton Chalmers, President of the First National Bank of Leesville.
John drudged from dawn to dark, just as Jimmie did, and in addition had all the worry and fear;
his wife was a sallow and hollow-chested drudge, who took as many bottles of patent-medicine
as poor Mrs. Meissner.

But Jimmie kept fairly cheerful because he was learning new things, and because he saw how
good it was for the babies, who were getting fresh air and better food than they had ever had
in their little lives before. All summer long he ploughed and harrowed and hoed, he tended
horses and cows and pigs and chickens, and drove to town with farm produce to be sold. He would
be too tired at night even to read his Socialist papers; for six months he let the world go
its way unhindered--its way of desperate strife and colossal anguish. It was the time when
the German hordes hurled themselves against the fortifications of Verdun. For five horrible
months they came on, wave upon endless wave; the people of France set their teeth and swore,
"They shall not pass!" and the rest of civilization waited, holding its breath.

II

The only chance Jimmie had to talk about these matters was of a Saturday night when he strolled
up to the store at a near-by cross-roads. The men he met here were of a new type to him--as
different from factory people as if they came from another planet. Jimmie had been taught to
laugh at them as "hayseeds"; intellectually he regarded them as relics of a vanished age so,
of course, he could not listen to their talk very long without "butting in". He began with
the declaration that the Allies were as bad as the Germans. He got away with that, because
they had all been taught to hate the "Britishers" in their school-books, and they didn't know
very much about Frenchmen and "Eye-talians". But when Jimmie went on to say that the American
government was as bad as the German government--that all governments were run by capitalists,
and all went to war for foreign markets and such plunder--then what a hornet's nest he brought
about his ears! "You mean to say American armies would do what them Proosians done in Belgium?"
And when Jimmie answered "Yes," an indignant citizen rose from his seat on a cracker-box, and
tapped him on the shoulder and said: "Look here, young feller, you better run along home. You'll
git yerself a coat of tar and feathers if you talk too much round these parts."

So Jimmie shut up for a while; and when he went out with his armful of purchases, an aged,
white-whiskered patriarch who had been listening got up and followed him out. "I'm going your
way," he said. "Git in with me." Jimmie climbed into the buggy; and while the bony old mare
ambled along through the summer night the driver asked questions about Jimmie's life. Where
had he been brought up? How had it been possible for a man to live all his life in America,
and know so little about his native land?

Peter Drew was this old farmer's name, and he had been in the first battle of Bull Run, and
had fought with the Army of Northern Virginia all the way to Richmond. So he knew how American
armies behave; he could tell Jimmie about a million free men who had rushed to arms to save
their nation's integrity, and had made a clean job of it, and then gone quietly back to their
work at farm and forge. Jimmie had heard Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker, make the statement
that "Force never settled anything". He repeated this now, and the other replied that an American
ought to be the last person in the world to make such a statement, for his country had provided
the best illustration in history of the importance of a good job of spanking. It was force
that had settled the slavery question--and settled it so that now you might travel in the South
and have a hard time to find a man that would want to unsettle it.

But Jimmie knew nothing about all that; he knew nothing about anything in America. The old
man said it frightened him to realize that the country had let a man grow up in it with so
little understanding of its soul. All that precious tradition, utterly dead so far as Jimmie
was concerned! All those heroes who had died to make free the land in which he lived, and to
keep it free--and he did not know their names, he did not even know the names of the great
battles they had fought! The old man's voice trembled and he laid his hand on Jimmie's knee.

The little Socialist tried to explain that he had dreams of his own. He was fighting for international
freedom--his patriotism was higher and wider than any one country. And that was all right,
said the other, but why kick down the ladder by which you had climbed--and especially when
you had perhaps not entirely finished climbing? Why not know the better side of your own country,
and appeal to it? Peter Drew went on to tell of a speech he had heard Abraham Lincoln make,
and to quote things Lincoln had said; could Jimmie doubt that Lincoln would have opposed the
rule of the country by Wall Street? And when a country had been shaped and guided by such men
as Lincoln, why trample its face and besmirch its good name--just because there were in it
some evil men contending against its ideals of freedom and democracy?

This old soldier lived about a mile from Jimmie, and asked his new friend to come and see him.
So the next afternoon, which was Sunday, Lizzie put on a newly starched dress, and Jimmie packed
the two smallest infants in the double perambulator, and took Jimmie Junior's chubby hand and
they trudged down the road to the farmhouse which the old man's father had built. Mrs. Drew
was a sweet-faced, rather tired looking old lady, but her pale eyes seemed to smile with hospitality,
and she brought out a basket of ripe peaches, and sat and chatted sympathetically with Lizzie
about the care of babies, while Jimmie and the old man sat under the shade of an elm tree by
the kitchen-door and discussed American history. Jimmie listened to stories of battle and imprisonment,
of monster heroisms and self-immolations. Up to this time he had been looking at war from the
outside, as it were; but now he got a glimpse of the soul of it, he began to understand how
a man might be willing to leave his home and his loved ones, and march out to fight and suffer
and die to save his country in which he believed.

And here was another new idea: this old fellow had been a soldier, had fought through four
years of incessant battles, and yet he had not lost his goodness. He was kind, gentle, generous;
he gave dignity to the phrases at which Jimmie had been taught to mock. It was impossible not
to respect such a man; and so little by little Jimmie was made to reflect that there might
be such a thing as the soul of America, about which Peter Drew was all the time talking. Perhaps
there was really more to the country than Wall Street speculators and grafting politicians,
policemen with clubs and militiamen with bayonets to stick into the bodies of working-men who
tried to improve their lot in life!

III

In the course of the summer Jimmie had to take several days off and go into Leesville to attend
the trial of the German plotters. He had to take the witness-stand and tell all he knew about
Kumme and Heinrich and the other men who had frequented the bicycle-shop. It was a very serious
experience, and before it was over Jimmie was heartily glad that he had rejected the invitation
to help blow up the Empire Machine Shops. The trial ended with a sentence of six months for
Jimmie's old employer, and of two years each for Heinrich and his pals. The law allowed no
more--to the intense disgust of the Leesville Herald. The Herald was in favour of a life-sentence
for anyone who interfered with the industry upon which the prosperity of the city depended.

Among those who came to the trial was Comrade Smith, editor of the Worker, and Jimmie sat with
him in Tom's "Buffeteria", and heard an account of the latest developments in the Empire Shops.
The movement of discontent had been entirely crushed; the great establishment was going at
full blast, both day and night. They were taking on hundreds of new hands, mostly women and
girls, speeding them faster and faster, turning out tens of thousands of shell-casings every
day. And still they were not satisfied; new buildings were going up, the concern was spreading
like a huge blot over the landscape. There was talk of an explosive factory near-by, so that
shells might be filled as fast as they were made.

The "boom" conditions continued in Leesville; speculators were reaping harvests, it seemed
as if the masters of the city were all on a spree. Comrade Smith advised Jimmie to stay where
he was, for it was getting to be harder and harder for the workers in Leesville to get anything
to eat. But out on the heights along the river front, the part of the city called "Nob Hill",
new palaces were rising. And it was that way all over the Eastern part of the country, said
the young editor; the rich no longer knew what to do with their millions.

On the day the trial ended, Jimmie stayed in town to attend a meeting of the local and pay
his back dues. So he met all his old friends, and heard "Wild Bill" get up and deliver one
of his tirades. Bill had in his hand a newspaper clipping telling of the amazing madness that
had struck Wall Street. Munition stocks were soaring to prices beyond belief; "war-babies",
men called them, with unthinkably cynical wit. On the "Great White Way", to which they rushed
to celebrate these new Arabian Nights, there was such an orgy of dissipation as the world had
never seen. "And is this what we have to slave for!" yelled "Wild Bill"--looking wilder than
ever since the police had broken his nose and knocked out his three front teeth. "This is why
we are chained to our jobs--shut up in jail if we so much as open our mouths! Piling up millions
for old man Granitch, so that young Lacey can marry chorus-girls and divorce them--or steal
away another man's wife, as they say he's doing just now!"

Then young Emil Forster spoke, explaining to Jimmie the inner significance of terrific world-events.
Russia was in the midst of a gigantic offensive, which was meant to overwhelm Austria; England
at the same time was hurling in her new armies on the Somme; for these two giant movements
they wanted shells--millions and millions of shells from America, which alone could make enough
of them. The railroads were clogged with them, they were piled mountain-high at the terminals
and ports; whole fleets of steamers were loading up with them, and proceeding to England and
France, and to Russia by way of Archangel. And, of course, the German submarines were out to
stop them; the whole world was like a powder-magazine over the issue. The President, by his
series of notes, had forced Germany to agree not to sink passenger-vessels; but this promise
was not easy to keep--accidents kept happening, and the temper of the peoples was rising, America
was being drawn nearer every hour to the vortex of this dreadful strife. Such was the picture
which Jimmie carried back to the farm; you could hardly wonder if he missed that peace and
joy which men are supposed to imbibe at the bosom of their Mother Nature!

CHAPTER X

JIMMIE HIGGINS MEETS THE OWNER

I

It was late at night when Jimmie left the Socialist local, and took the trolley out into the
country. He had to walk nearly two miles from where he got off, and a thunder-storm had come
up; he got out and started to trudge through the darkness and the floods of rain. Several times
he slipped off the road into the ditch, and once he fell prone, and got up and washed the mud
from his eyes and nose with the stream of fresh water pouring about his head. While he was
thus occupied he heard the sound of a horn, and saw a glare of light rushing up. He jumped
into the ditch again, and a big automobile went by at a fast pace, spattering showers of mud
all over him. He plodded on, swearing to himself. Some of them munition- millionaires, no doubt--tearing
over the country at night honking their horns like they owned the roads, and covering poor
walking people with their splashings!

And so on, until Jimmie came round a turn of the road and saw the white glare of light again,
this time standing still. It seemed to be pointing up into the trees; and when he got nearer
he made out the reason--it had run off the road into the ditch, and then up the other slope,
and there rolled over on to its side.

"Hello!" said a voice, as Jimmie came slopping up.

"Hello!" he answered.

"How far is it to the nearest house?"

"Maybe half a mile."

"Who lives there?"

"I do."

"Have you got a horse and buggy?"

"There's one at the big house, just a piece beyond."

"Do you suppose we could get enough men to turn this car over?"

"I dunno; there ain't many about here."

"Damn!" muttered the man to himself. Then, after a moment, "Well, there's no use staying here."
This to his companion, whom Jimmie made out to be a woman. She was standing still, with the
cold rain pouring over her. The man put his arm about her, and said to Jimmie, "Lead the way,
please." So Jimmie set out, slopping through the mud as before.

Nothing more was said until they reached the "tenant-house" where the Jimmies lived. But meantime
the little Socialist's mind was busy; it seemed to him that the man's voice was familiar, and
he was trying to recall where and how he had heard it before. They came to the house, which
was dark, and the couple stood on the porch while Jimmie went in and groped for a match and
lighted the single smoky oil-lamp on which the household depended. Carrying it in his hand,
he went to the door and invited the couple in. They came; and so Jimmie got a glimpse of the
face of the man, and almost dropped the lamp right there where he stood. It was Lacey Granitch!

II

The young lord of Leesville was too much occupied with his own affairs to notice the look on
the face of the yokel before him; or perhaps he was so used to being recognized, and to being
stared at by yokels. He looked about the room and saw a stove. "Can you get us a fire, so this
lady can get dry?"

"Y--yes," said Jimmie. "I--I suppose so." But he made no move; he stood rooted to the spot.

"Lacey," put in the woman, "don't stop for that. Get the car started, or get another." And
Jimmie looked at her; she was rather small, and very beautiful--quite the most beautiful human
creature that Jimmie had ever looked at. One could see that she was expensively dressed, even
though everything she had on was soaked with rain.

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Lacey. "You can't travel till you get dry--you'd be ill." And he turned
upon Jimmie. "Get a fire, won't you?" he exclaimed. "A big fire. I'll make it worth while to
you for whatever you do. Only don't stand there gaping all night," he added impatiently.

Jimmie leaped to obey; partly because he had been in the habit of leaping to obey all his life--but
also partly because he was sorry for the beautiful wet lady, and because, if he stood and stared
any longer, Lacey Granitch might recognize him. The moment when Jimmie had been singled out
in the herd of strikers and cursed by the young master of the Empire Machine Shops was one
of the most vivid memories of Jimmie's rebellious life, and it did not occur to him that the
incident might not have equally impressed the other participant.

In a few minutes the stove was hot; and urged by her escort, the lady took off her driving-coat
and hat, and hung them over a chair. Everything underneath was wet, and the man urged her to
take off her skirt and blouse. "What does he matter?" he argued, referring to Jimmie; but the
lady would not do it. She stood by the stove, shivering slightly, and pleading with her escort
to make haste, to find some way to get the car running again. They might be followed--

"Oh, nonsense, Helen!" cried Lacey. "You are tormenting yourself with nightmares. Be sensible
and get dry." He piled the wood into the stove, and ordered Jimmie to get another armful; and
Jimmie obeyed with his hands and feet--but meantime his rebellious little brain was taking
in every detail of the situation, putting this and that together.

The talking had waked up Lizzie, so Jimmie rushed into the next room and whispered, "Lacey
Granitch is here!" If he had told her that the Angel Gabriel was there, or Jehovah with all
his thunders and his retinue of seraphim, poor Lizzie could not have been more stunned. Jimmie
ordered her to get up, and get on her dress and shoes, and get a cup of coffee for the lady;
the dazed woman obeyed--though she would rather have crawled under the bed than face the celestial
personages who had taken possession of her home.

III

Lacey ordered Jimmie to accompany him, to find some help to get the car into travelling condition.
They went out together, and on the porch, before they braved the rain again, young Granitch
stopped and spoke: "See here, my man; I want you to help me get a gang together, and I want
you to keep quiet, please--say nothing about who was in the car. If any other people come along
and ask questions, keep your mouth shut, and I'll make it worth while to you--well worth while.
Do you understand?"

Every instinct in Jimmie Higgins was ready to answer, "Yes, sir." That was what he had always
answered to such commands--he, and his father, and his father's fathers before him. But something
else within him resisted this instinct--the new revolutionary psychology which he had so painfully
acquired, and which made continual war upon his old-time docilities. It seemed that this was
the moment, if ever in his life, to show the stuff he was made of. He clenched his hands, and
everything in him turned to iron. "WHO IS THAT LADY?" he demanded.

Lacey Granitch was so taken aback that he started visibly. "What do you mean?"

"I mean--is she your wife? Or is she some other man's wife?"

"Why you damned--" And the young lord of Leesville stopped, speechless. Jimmie fell back a
couple of steps, as a matter of precaution, but he did not weaken in his rigid resolve.

"I know you, Mr. Granitch," he said; "and I know what you're doing. You might as well know
you ain't foolin' nobody."

"What the hell is it to you?" cried the other; but then he stopped again, and Jimmie heard
him breathing hard. Evidently he made an effort to keep his self-control; when he spoke again,
his voice was quieter. "Listen, my good fellow," he said. "You have a chance to make a good
deal of money to-night--"

"I don't want your money!" broke in Jimmie. "I wouldn't touch your filthy money, that you get
by murdering men!"

"My God!" said Lacey Granitch; and then, weakly: "What have you got against me?"

"What have I got? I was workin' in the Empire, an' I went on strike for my rights, an' you
cursed me like I was a dog, an' you sent the police an' had me arrested, an' they smashed Wild
Bill's nose, an' sent me up for ten days when I hadn't done nothin'--"

"Oh! So that's it, is it?"

"Yes, that's it; but I wouldn't mind that so much--if it wasn't for them shells you're makin'
to kill men over in Europe. And you spendin' the money drinkin' champagne with chorus-girls,
an' runnin' off with other men's wives!"

"You--" and Lacey uttered a foul oath, and leaped at Jimmie; but Jimmie had expected that,
he was looking out for himself. There was no railing to the little porch on which he stood,
and he leaped off to the ground and away. Because he knew the lay of the land, he could run
faster in the darkness than his pursuer.

He sped down the path and out into the road--and there was the headlight of an automobile,
almost upon him. The vehicle came to an instant stop, and a startled voice cried, "Hey, there!"

"Hey, there!" answered Jimmie, and stopped in the light; for he did not believe that his enemy
would dare pursue him there.

The voice from the car spoke again. "There's an automobile off the road a ways back here. Do
you know anything about who the people are that were driving it?"

"Sure I do!" answered Jimmie promptly.

"Where are they?"

"They're up in that house--Lacey Granitch an' a lady named Helen--"

And instantly the door of the car was flung open. A man leaped out, and another man, and another;
they kept coming--Jimmie would not have believed that an automobile could have held so many
people. Not one of them said a word, but all started on the run for Jimmie's house as if they
were charging in a battle.

IV

Jimmie followed behind. He heard sounds of a scuffle on the lawn, and screams from inside.
At first the little farm-hand could not make up his mind what to do, but finally he ran to
the house; and there in the front room he saw the beautiful lady, with her wet hair streaming
down her back, and the tears streaming down her face, sunk on her knees, before the man who
had hailed Jimmie from the automobile. She had caught his coat with her two hands, and clung
to it with such desperation that when he tried to draw away he dragged her along the floor.
"Paul!" she was screaming. "What are you going to do?"

"Be quiet! Be quiet!" commanded the man. He was young, tall and superhumanly handsome; his
face had the white light of a passionate resolve, his lips were set like those of a man who
is marching to his death in battle. "Answer me!" cried the woman again and again; until finally
he said: "I shan't kill him; but I mean to teach him his lesson."

"Paul, Paul, have mercy!" sobbed the woman; she went on pleading hysterically, in the most
dreadful distress that Jimmie had ever seen or heard. "It wasn't his fault, Paul, it was mine!
I did it all! Oh, for Christ's sake! You are driving me mad!" She moaned, she implored, she
sobbed till she choked herself; and when the man tried to tear her hands loose she fought with
him, he could not get free of her.

"You're not going to move me, Helen," he declared. "You might as well get that clear."

"But I tell you it was my fault, Paul! I ran away with him!"

"All right," answered the man, grimly. "I'll fix him so no other man's wife will ever run away
with him."

Her clamour continued more wildly than ever, until two other men came into the room. "Joe,"
said Paul, to one of them, "take her down to the car and keep her there. Don't let her call
for help--if anybody comes along, keep her quiet, keep your hand tight over her mouth."

"Paul, you're a fiend!" shrieked the woman. "I'll kill you for this!"

"You're welcome to," answered the man. "I shouldn't care--but I'm going to do this job before
I die." And he tore the woman's hands away from him, and by his stern anger he gave the other
two men the necessary resolution. They carried her, half-fainting, out of the room.

All this time Jimmie Higgins had been standing like one turned to stone; and Lizzie had shrunk
into a far corner of the room, all but paralysed with terror. Now the man turned to them. "My
good people," he said, "we want to borrow your room for a half-hour or so. We'll pay you well
for it--enough to buy the whole house if you want to."

"W--w--what are you goin' to do?" stammered Jimmie.

"We're going to teach a little fundamental morality to a young man whose education has been
neglected," replied the other. That somehow did not tell Jimmie very much, but he forebore
to speak again, for never in all his life had he seen a man who conveyed to him the impression
of such resistless force as this man. He was truly a superhuman creature, terrifying, panoplied
in lightnings of wrath.

The door of the house opened again, and Lacey Granitch came in, with a man on each side holding
him by the arms and a pair of handcuffs on his wrists. Of all the dreadful spectacles that
Jimmie had seen that dreadful night, the worst was the face of the young master of the Empire
Machine Shops. It was green--absolutely and literally green. His knees trembled so that he
seemed about to sink to the floor, and his dark eyes were those of an animal in a trap.

There came another man behind him carrying two black cases in his hands. He opened one, and
took out some instrument with wires attached, and hung part of it to a hook on the wall; he
pressed a switch, and a soft white radiance flooded the room. The man who was in command, the
one whom the lady had called "Paul", now turned to Jimmie and his wife. "You may take your
lamp," he said. "Go into the other room and stay there till we call you, please."

"W--w--what are you goin' to do?" Jimmie found courage to stammer again. But the other merely
bade him to go into the other room and stay, and it would be all right, and he would be well
paid for his time and trouble. There was no use trying to interfere; no use trying to get away,
for the house would be watched.

V

Jimmie Junior had been wakened by the uproar, and was whimpering; so Lizzie hurried to quiet
him, and Jimmie set the little smoky lamp on the dresser, and went and sat on the bed beside
her, holding her hand in his. Both their hands were shaking in a way that was amazing.

Every sound from the other room was plainly audible. Lacey was pleading, and "Paul" commanded
him to hold his tongue. There was a scuffle, and then terrified moans, which died away. There
began to steal into the Higgins's bedroom a most ghastly odour; they could not imagine what
it was. And then they began to hear wild clamour from Lacey Granitch, as if he were suffering
in hell. It was awful beyond words; the perspiration came out in beads on the faces of the
listeners, and Jimmie was just about making up his mind that it was his duty to rush in and
protest, or perhaps to climb out of the window and make an effort to steal away and summon
help, when the door opened and the man called "Paul" came in, closing the door behind him.

"It's all right," said he. "People always make a fuss when they're given an anaesthetic, so
don't let it frighten you." And he stood there waiting, rigid, grim, while the sounds went
on. Finally they died away and silence fell--a long, long silence. He opened the door and went
back into the other room, and the two Jimmies were left holding each other's shaking hands.

Now and then they heard a man speak in a low voice, or someone move across the room; and always
that ghastly, overpowering odour kept creeping in, making them think they would die of suffocation,
and their three babies also. The suspense and horror had become almost unbearable--when finally
they began to hear Lacey Granitch again, moaning, sobbing--most harrowing sounds. "My God!
My God!" whispered Lizzie, "What are they doing?" And when Jimmie did not answer, she whispered
again. "We ought to stop them! We ought to get help!"

But then once more the door opened, and "Paul" came in. "It's all right now," he said. "He's
coming out." Neither of the Jimmies had the least idea what "coming out" meant, but they were
reassured to know that the masterful person at least was satisfied. They waited; they heard
Lacey vomiting, as it seemed--and then they heard him cursing, in between his feeble gasps.
He called the men the same foul name that he had called Jimmie; and that somehow made the whole
affair seem better--it brought one down to earth again!

"Paul" went out and stayed for a while, and when he came back, he said, "We're going now; and
understand, there's nothing for you to worry about. We shall leave the patient here, and as
soon as we get to a telephone, we'll notify the hospital to send an ambulance. So all you have
to do is to wait, and keep quiet and don't worry. And here's something for the use of your
house--"The man put out his hand with a roll of bills, which Jimmie mechanically took--"and
if anybody asks you about what happened to-night, just say you didn't see anything and don't
know anything whatever about it. I'm sorry to have troubled you, but it couldn't be helped.
And now, good night."

And so the masterful young man went out, and they heard him and his companions tramping down
the porch-steps. They listened, until they heard the automobile start up and disappear in the
darkness. Then from the next room they heard a moan.

Trembling with terror, Jimmie got up and stole to the door, and opened it a tiny crack. The
room was in utter darkness. "Get me some water!" the voice of Lacey groaned; and Jimmie tiptoed
back and got the little smoky lamp, and came to the door again. He peered in, and saw that
Lacey was lying on the floor with a sheet over him--everything but his head, which was resting
on a pillow. His face was yellow and twisted with pain. "Water! Water!" he sobbed; and Jimmie
rushed to get a glass and fill it from the pail. When he brought it, Lacey first tried to drink,
and then began to vomit; then he lay, sobbing softly to himself. He saw Jimmie staring at him,
and his eyes filled with sudden hate and he whispered, "This is what you got me in for, you
damned little skunk!"

CHAPTER XI

JIMMIE HIGGINS FACES THE WAR

I

The ambulance arrived, and the two attendants who came with it brought in a stretcher and carried
young Granitch away. Jimmie opened the windows to get rid of the odour of ether, and meantime
he and Lizzie sat for hours discussing every aspect of the dreadful scene they had witnessed,
and speculating as to its meaning. When Jimmie investigated the roll of bills which had been
slipped into his hand, he found that there were ten of them, new, crisp, and bright yellow,
each having the figure twenty printed upon it. It was more money than these two humble little
people had ever had or expected to have in all their lives. It was literally blood-money they
felt, but it would be hard to see who would be benefited if they rejected it. Certainly the
deed which had been done that night could not be undone--not for all the money that old Granitch
had heaped up in his vaults.

Jimmie kept quiet, as he had been bidden, and apparently no one told about his part in the
affair--no reporters came out to his country home to ask for interviews. But when he went to
the cross-roads store a couple of nights later he found that the storm was all over--nobody
was talking or thinking about anything else. The news, in fact, had gone by telegraph all over
the world, and wherever people read it they shuddered with horror, and the Socialists had a
choice illustration of the effect of excessive wealth upon morals.

There were half a dozen versions of the story, Jimmie found; some declared that the outraged
husband had caught young Granitch in his home and had fetched a surgeon there; others that
he had taken him to a hospital; others that the operation had been performed in a road-house
near by. But none mentioned the tenant-house on the farm of John Cutter, and Jimmie wrapped
himself in his pride of superior knowledge, and let the loungers in the country store chatter
on. He would go back each night for new gossip; and first he heard that old man Granitch was
meaning to have all the conspirators arrested and sent to jail; but then it was said that young
Lacey had left the hospital and vanished, no one knew where. And they never knew; never again
did he appear to curse the strikers at the Empire, nor to break the hearts of chorus-girls
on the Great White Way! His grim old father's hair turned grey in a few weeks; and while he
went on to fill his contracts with the Russian government, all men knew that his heart was
eaten out with grief and rage and shame.

Jimmie and his wife held numerous confabulations over those twenty-dollar bills. What should
they do with their fortune? The Worker, always in need of funds, was just now issuing bonds
in small denominations, and Jimmie could not imagine any better financial investment than a
working-class paper; but Lizzie, alas, could not be made to see it. And then his eye was caught
by an advertisement of an oil-company, published in a Socialist paper, which lifted it above
suspicion. But again Lizzie blocked the way. She begged her visionary husband to turn the money
over to her; she argued that half of it belonged to her anyhow--had she not done her part to
earn it? "What part?" Jimmie asked; and she answered that she had kept quiet--and what more
had he done?

Eleeza Betooser wanted that treasure to insure safety for the children through whatever troubles
might come to their propagandist father. And finally the propagandist father gave way, and
the woman proceeded to secure the money in the ancient way of her sex. She took the ten crisp
bills and sewed them in a layer of cloth, and wound the cloth about the ankle of her right
leg, and sewed it there, and put a stocking over it to hide it. And that apparatus would stay
there--day or night, winter or summer, it would never part from its owner. She would be a walking
bank, a bank that she knew was safe from panic or crisis; the feeling of the two hundred dollars
about her ankle would be communicated to every part of Lizzie--warming her heart, delighting
her brain, and stimulating her liver and digestion.

II

And soon the chances of life caused Jimmie to be glad of the innate conservatism of the feminine
nature. The giant British offensive was drowned in mud and blood on the Somme, and the Russian
offensive went to pieces before Lemberg; and meantime John Cutter stowed his barrels of apples
in the cellar, and got the last of his corn-crop husked, and drove his load of pumpkins to
market; and then one Saturday night, after the cows had come in, wet and steaming with November
rain, he informed his hired man that he would not need his services after that month, he would
no longer be able to afford "help".

Jimmie stared at him in consternation--for he had thought that he had a permanent job, having
learned the work and having heard no serious complaints.

"But," explained Cutter, "the work's all done. Do you expect me to pay you to sit round? I'll
be glad to take you on next spring, of course."

"And what'll I do in the meantime?" Jimmie glared, and all his hatred of the villainous profit-system
welled up in his heart. So much food he had helped to raise and store away--and not a pound
of it his! "Say," he remarked, "I know what you want! Some kind of a trained bear, that'll
work all summer, and go to sleep in winter an' not eat nothin'!"

The little Socialist was all the crosser, because he knew that his boss had just made a lucky
stroke--they were running a spur on the railroad out to the vast explosives plant they were
constructing in the country, and Cutter had got the price of his mortgage for a narrow strip
of land that was nothing but wood-lot. Jimmie had seen the deal made, and had put in a useful
word as to the value of that "timber", but now he had no share in the deal. He must be content
with an offer of the tenant-house for five dollars a month through the winter, and a job with
the rail-road company, grading track.

There came rain and snow and blizzards, but the rail-road construction stopped for nothing.
It went on in three shifts, day and night; for half the world was clamouring for the means
to blow itself up, and the other half must work like the devil to furnish the means. At least
that was the way the matter presented itself to Jimmie Higgins, who took it as a personal affront
the way this diabolical war kept pursuing him. He had fled into the country from it, bringing
his little family to a tenant-house on an obscure, worn-out farm, several miles from the nearest
town; but here all of a sudden came a gang of Dagoes with picks and shovels. They lifted up
and set to one side the chicken-house where Lizzie kept her eleven hens and one rooster, and
the pig-sty where one little hog gobbled up their table-scraps; and two days later came a huge
machine, driven by steam, creeping on a track, picking up rails and ties from a car behind
it, swinging them round and laying them in front of it, and then rolling ahead over the bed
it had made. So the railroad just literally walked out into the country, and before long whole
train-loads of cement and sand and corrugated iron walls and roofing came rattling and banging
past the Higgins's back-door. Day and night this continued; and a little way beyond they knew
that a two-mile square of scrubby waste was being laid out with roads and tracks and little
squat buildings, set far apart from each other. In a few months the frightened family would
lie awake at night and listen to trains rattling past, coming out from the explosives plant,
piled to the tops with loads of trinitrotoluol, and such unpronounceable instruments of murder
and destruction. And this was the fate which capitalism had handed out to an ardent anti-militarist,
a propagandist of international fraternity!

III

Jimmie Higgins went into the Socialist local now and then, to pay his dues and to refresh his
soul on pacifist speeches. Just before Christmas the President of the United States wrote a
letter to all the warring nations pleading with them to end the strife; intimating that all
the belligerents were on a par as to badness, and stating explicitly that America had nothing
to do with their struggle. This, of course, brought intense satisfaction to the members of
Local Leesville of the Socialist party; it was what they had been proclaiming for two years
and four months! They had never expected to have a capitalist President in agreement with them,
but when the opportunity came, they made the most of it; clamouring that the capitalist President
should go farther--should back up his words by actions. If the warring nations would not make
peace, let America at least clear her skirts by declaring an embargo, refusing to furnish them
with the means of self-destruction!

But for some reason incomprehensible to Jimmie Higgins, the capitalist President would not
take this further step; and time moved on, and at the end of January fell a thunder-bolt, in
the shape of a declaration from the German government that beginning next day it rescinded
its agreement to visit and search steamers, and declared war to the death against all vessels
sailing in barred zones. Jimmie went to a meeting of the local a few days after that, and found
the gathering seething with excitement. The President had appeared before Congress that day
and made a speech calling for war; and the Germans and Austrians in the local were wild with
indignation, shaking their fists and clamouring against the unthinkable outrage of an attack
upon the Fatherland. There was a new edition of the Worker just out, filled with bitter protests,
and the Germans and the pacifists wanted to pledge the local to a movement for a general strike
of labour throughout the country. Street-meetings had been resumed--for, of course, since the
strike in the Empire had been settled, the police had had no pretext to prevent them. The extremists
now wanted anti-war speakers on every corner, and anti-war leaflets shoved under every doorstep;
they were willing to put up the money and to pledge their time for these activities.

Lawyer Norwood rose and revealed the split that was now full-grown in the party. For the United
States to lie down before that insolent declaration of the German government would be to imperil
everything which a lover of liberty held dear. It would mean that Britain would be starved
out of the war, and British sea-power shattered--that British sea-power upon which free government
had based itself throughout the world. Norwood was unable to get any further for the tempest
of jeering and ridicule that overwhelmed him. "Freedom in Ireland!" shrieked Comrade Mary Allen.
"And in India! And in Egypt!" bellowed Comrade Koeln, the glass-blower, whose mighty lungs
had been twenty years preparing for this emergency.

It was hard to stop the laughter--it seemed so funny that a man who called himself a Socialist
should be defending British battleships! But Comrade Gerrity, the chairman, pounded with his
gavel, and insisted that the meeting should give fair play, that every speaker should be heard
in his turn. So Norwood went on. He understood that no government in this world was perfect,
but some were better than others, and it was a fact of history, whether or not they chose to
admit it, that such freedom as had already been secured in the world--in Britain and Canada
and Australia and New Zealand and the United States--had rested under the protection of British
battleships. If those battleships went down, it would mean that every one of those free communities
would begin building up a military force many times as strong as they had now. If the United
States did not maintain the established customs of sea-commerce in the present crisis, it would
mean one thing and one only--that America would spend the next thirty years devoting her energies
to preparing for a life-and-death struggle with German Imperialism. If we were not to fight
later, we must fight now--

"All right, you fight!" shouted Comrade Schneider, the brewer, his purple face more purple
than ever before in the history of Local Leesville.

"I'm going to fight all right," answered the young lawyer. "This is my last speech here or
anywhere else--I'm leaving for an officers' training-camp to-morrow. I have come here to do
my duty, to warn you comrades--even though I know it will be in vain. The time for debate has
passed--the country is going into war--"

"I'm not going into war!" roared Schneider.

"Be careful," answered the other. "You may find yourself in before you know it."

And the big brewer laughed to shake the plaster off the walls. "I'd like to see them send me!
To fight for the British sea-power! Ho! Ho! Ho!"

IV

It was a stormy speech young Norwood made, but he persisted to the end, so that, as he said,
his conscience might be clear, he might know that he had done what he could to protect the
movement from its greatest blunder. He warned them that the temper of the country was rising;
you could see it rising hour by hour, and things which had been tolerated in the past would
be tolerated no longer. Democracy would protect its life--it would show that in a crisis it
was as strong as militarism--

"Yes, and turn itself into militarism to do it!" cried Comrade Mary Allen. The Quaker lady
was almost beside herself; she, more even than the Germans, saw in what was transpiring the
violation of her most sacred convictions.

America, her own country, was giving itself to war, making ready to turn its resources to the
wholesale mutilation of men! Comrade Mary's thin face was white; her lips were tight with resolve,
but her feelings betrayed themselves by the quivering of her nostrils. And oh, what a speech
she made! Such torrents of furious hatred in the cause of universal love! Comrade Mary quoted
a Socialist writer who had said that just as gladiatorial combats had continued until Christian
monks were willing to throw themselves into the arena, so war would continue until Socialists
were willing to throw themselves beneath the hoofs of the cavalry. And in this Quaker spinster
you saw one Socialist who was ready to go out that very night and throw herself beneath the
hoofs of cavalry, infantry, or artillery, or even of a police automobile.

And that was the sentiment of the meeting as a whole. If America entered the European strife,
it would be because the Socialist organization had exhausted its means of protest in vain.
They would call meetings, they would distribute literature, they would voice their convictions
on the streets and in the shops and wherever the people might be reached. They would have no
part in this wicked strife, either now or later; they would continue in the future, as in the
past, to denounce and to expose the capitalist politicians and the capitalist newspapers who
caused war and thrived upon war. And in proportion to the intensity of their feelings would
be their bitterness and contempt for the few renegades who in this hour of crisis, this test
of manhood and integrity, were deserting the movement and going to enrol themselves in officers'
training-camps!

And so when Jimmie went home that night he carried with him an armful of revolutionary literature,
which during the noon-hour he proceeded to distribute among the workers on the construction-job,
which was now inside the preserves of the explosives company. So naturally in the course of
the afternoon he was summoned before the boss and discharged; they escorted him to the limits
of the property, and told him that if he ever returned he would be shot on sight. And then
at night he went up to the cross-roads store and tried to give out his literature there, and
got into a controversy with some of the cracker-box loungers, one of whom jumped up and shook
his fist in Jimmie's face, shouting, "Get out of here, you dirty little louse! If you don't
stop talking your treason round here, we'll come down some night and ride you out of the country
on a rail!"

CHAPTER XII

JIMMIE HIGGINS MEETS A PATRIOT

I

The country, it seemed, was hell-bent for war; and Jimmie Higgins was hell-bent for martyrdom.
If the great madness were to take possession of America, it would not be without his having
done what he could to prevent it. He would stand in the path of the war chariot, he would throw
himself beneath the hoofs of the cavalry; and block the road with his dead body. To which vivid
programme there was only one obstacle--or, to be precise, four obstacles, one large and three
small, the large one being Eleeza Betooser.

Poor Lizzie of course had no real comprehension of the world-forces against which her husband
was contending; to Lizzie, life consisted of three babies, whom it was her duty to feed and
protect, and a husband, who was her instrument for carrying out this duty. The world outside
of these was to her a vague and shadowy place, full of vague and shadowy terrors. Somewhere
up in the sky was a Holy Virgin who would help when properly appealed to, but Lizzie was handicapped
in appealing to this Virgin by the fact that her husband despised the Holy One, and would cast
insulting doubts upon her virtue.

Now the shadowy terrors of this vast outside world were moving to ends of their own, and her
poor, puny husband persisted in putting himself in their way. He had got turned out of his
job, for the fourth or fifth time since Lizzie had known him, and he was in imminent danger
of getting into jail, or into a coat of tar and feathers. As the controversy grew hotter and
the peril greater, Lizzie came to a condition which might have been diagnosed as chronic impending
hysteria. Her eyes were red from secret weeping, and at the slightest provocation she would
burst into floods of tears and throw herself into her husband's arms. This would start off
Jimmie Junior and the little ones, who always took their cue from him. And Jimmie Senior would
stand perplexed and helpless. Here was a new aspect of the heroic life, not dealt with in the
books. He wondered--had there ever in history been such a thing as a married martyr? If so,
what had this martyr done with his family?

Jimmie would try to explain this to his distressed spouse. It was a question of saving a hundred
million people from the horrors of war; what did one man matter, in comparison with that? But
alas, the argument did not carry at all, the simple truth being that the one man mattered more
to Lizzie than all the other ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine
hundred and ninety-nine. And besides, what could the one man do? One poor, obscure, helpless
working-man out of a job--

"But it's the organization!" he cried. "It's all of us together--it's the party! We promised
to stand together, so we got to do it! If I drop out, I'm a coward, a traitor! We must make
the workers understand--"

"But you can't!" cried Lizzie.

"But we're doin' it! Come see!"

"And what can they do?"

Which of course started Jimmy off on a propaganda speech. What could the workers do? Say rather,
what could they not do! How could any war be fought without the workers? If only they would
stand together, if they would rise against their capitalist oppressors--

"But they won't!" sobbed the woman. "They got no use for you at all! You go an' get fired--or
you get your face beat in, like poor Bill Murray--"

"But is that any worse than goin' to war?"

"You ain't got to go to war!"

"Who says I ain't? I got to go, if the country goes. They'll drag me off and make me! If I
refuse they'll shoot me! Ain't they doin' that in England and France an' Roosia an' all them
countries?"

"But will they do it here?" cried Lizzie, aghast.

"Sure they will! That's exactly what they're gettin' ready for--what we're fightin' to stop
them from! You don't know what's goin' on in this country--listen here!"

And Jimmie hauled out the last issue of the Worker, which quoted speeches made in Congress,
calling for conscription, declaring that such a measure was an essential war-step. "Don't you
see what they're up to? An' if we're goin' to stop them, we gotta act now, before it's too
late. Hadn't I just as good go to jail here in Leesville as be shipped over to Europe to be
shot--or maybe drowned by a submarine on the way?"

And thus a new terror was introduced into Lizzie's life--robbing her of sleep for many a night
thereafter, planting in her mother-heart for the first time the idea that she might be concerned
in the world-war. "What'd become of the babies?" she wailed; and Jimmie answered: Whose business
was it to bother about working-class babies, under the hellish capitalist system?

II

So Jimmie had his way for a bit--he went into Leesville and helped distribute literature, and
held the torch at street-meetings, where some people hooted at them and others defended them,
and the police had to interfere to prevent a riot. It was at this time that a militant majority
was trying to drive through the Senate a declaration of war against Germany, and a handful
of pacifists blocked the way in the closing hours of the session, thus causing a delay of several
weeks. How you regarded this action depended upon your point of view. The President denounced
them as "wilful men", and the Wall Street newspapers apparently wanted them lynched; whereas
Jimmie and his fellows in the local hailed them as heroes and friends of mankind. The Socialists
argued that the President had been re-elected, only four months before, by pacifist votes,
and upon a pacifist platform; and now he was sweeping the country into war, and denouncing
those who stood upon his former convictions!

On top of this came another event which set Jimmie almost beside himself with excitement. For
three days all news from Petrograd was cut off; and then came a report, electrifying the world--the
Tsar had been overthrown, the Russian people were free! Jimmie could hardly believe his eyes;
he went in to the meeting of the local three nights later, to find his comrades celebrating
as if the world was theirs. Here was the thing they had been preaching, day in and day out,
all these weary years, amid ridicule, hatred and persecution; here was the Social Revolution,
knocking at the gates of the world! It would spread to Austria and Germany, to Italy, France,
England--and so to Leesville! Everywhere the people would come into their own, and war and
tyranny would vanish like a hateful nightmare!

Speaker after speaker got up to proclaim this glorious future; they sang the Marseillaise and
the Internationale, and the Russians who were present clasped one another in their arms, with
tears running down their cheeks. It was voted that they must hold a mass-meeting immediately,
to explain this epoch-making event to the people of the city; also they must stand more firmly
than ever by their programme of opposition to war. Now, with Social Revolution knocking at
the gates of the world, what was the use of America's going in for militarism?

So Jimmie set to work with redoubled fervour, giving all his time to agitation. He had apparently
no chance of getting a job, and for the moment he gave up trying. The keeper of the cross-roads
store, being down on him because of his ideas, refused him any more credit; and so poor Lizzie
was driven to do what she had vowed never to do--take off the stocking from her right leg,
and unsew the bandage from her ankle, and extract one of the ten precious twenty-dollar bills.
Their bright yellow was considerably faded now, their beautiful crispness gone entirely; but
the store-keeper made no kick on that account--he returned the change, and incidentally took
occasion to give her a friendly warning concerning her husband's reckless talk. There was trouble
coming to him, and his wife had better shut him up before it was too late. So poor Lizzie ceased
being a pacifist, and went home to have more hysterics on her husband's bosom.

III

Being unable to hold him back, she sent word by the mail-carrier to old Peter Drew to come
up and help; the old farmer hitched up his bony mare and drove to see them, and for a couple
of hours talked America while Jimmie talked Russia. Was America to lie down before the Kaiser?
Jimmie would answer that they were going to bring down the Kaiser in the same way they had
brought down the Tsar. The workers of Russia having shown the way, never more would the workers
of any nation bow to the yoke of slavery. Yes, even in the so-called republics, such as France,
which was ruled by bankers, and America, which was ruled by Wall Street--even here, the workers
would read the lesson of revolt!

"But in America the people can get anything they want!" cried the bewildered old man. "They
only have to vote--"

"VOTE?" snarled Jimmie. "An' have their votes thrown out by some rotten political gang, like
they got here in Leesville? Don't talk to me about votin'--they told me I'd moved into a new
district an' lost my vote--lost it because I lost my job! So it's old man Granitch has the
say whether I can vote or not! You'll find the same thing true of two-thirds of the men in
the Empire Shops--half the unskilled men in the country got no votes, because they got no home,
no nothin'."

"But," argued the old soldier, "how will you run your new working-class government, if not
by votes?"

"Sure, we'll run it by votes," Jimmie answered--"but first we'll turn out the capitalists;
they won't have the money to buy political machines; they won't own the newspapers an' print
lies about us. Look at this Leesville Herald right now--just plain downright lies they print--we
can't get any truth at all to the people."

And so it went. It was of no use for the old man to plead for the "country"; to Jimmie the
"country" had let itself be lost, suppressed, taken over by the capitalists, the "plutes".
Jimmie's sense of loyalty was not to his country, but to his class, which had been exploited,
hounded, driven from pillar to post. In past times the government had allowed itself to be
used by corporations; so now it was in vain that the President made appeals for justice and
democracy, using the beautiful language of idealism. Jimmie did not believe that he meant it;
or anyhow, Wall Street would see that nothing came of his promises. The "plutes" would take
his words and twist them into whatever sense they wished; and meantime they went on pouring
abuse on Jimmie Higgins--throwing the same old mud into his eyes, blinding him with the same
old hatred. So there was no way for an old soldier and patriot to break through the armour
of Jimmie's prejudice.

IV

Next day was to be the great mass-meeting in celebration of the Russian revolution; and would
you believe it, Lizzie was hoping to persuade Jimmie to stay away; she had brought Mr. Drew
to help persuade him! Poor Lizzie had visions of everybody in the hall being carted off to
jail, of Jimmie getting up and shouting something, causing the police to fall on him and beat
in his skull with their clubs. It was in vain he declared that he was going to do nothing more
romantic than sell literature and act as usher. She clasped him in her arms, weeping copiously,
and when he was still obdurate, she declared that she would go with him. She would try to persuade
Mrs. Drew to take care of the babies for one night.

Old Peter Drew answered that he would be interested to attend the meeting himself. How would
it do for him to come for Lizzie and the little ones, and leave the latter at his home, and
then drive with Lizzie to the meeting? They could meet Jimmie at the Opera-house, where he
would be spending the day decorating. Then after the meeting they could all drive back together.
"Fine!" said Jimmie, who had visions of the old soldier becoming infected with revolutionary fever.

But alas, it did not work out that way. To Jimmie's consternation the old man turned up at
the Opera-house in a faded blue uniform with brass buttons all over it! Everybody stared, of
course; and they stared all the harder because they saw this military personage in company
with Comrade Higgins. He turned to Jimmie and said, "Where's the American flag?"

The Liederkranz sang the Marseillaise, and after the audience had cheered and waved red handkerchiefs
and shouted itself hoarse, Comrade Gerrity, the chairman, made a little speech. For many years
all Socialists had been accustomed to employ a metaphor by which to describe conditions in
their country, and now they would no longer be able to use it, for Russia was free, and America
would follow her example when she had the sense. He introduced Comrade Pavel Michaelovitch,
who had come all the way from New York to tell them the meaning of the greatest event of history.
Comrade Pavel, a slender, frail, scholarly-looking man with a black beard and black-rimmed
spectacles, said a few words in Russian, and then he talked for an hour in broken English,
explaining how the Russians had won their way to freedom, and now would use it to set free
the rest of the proletariat. And then came Comrade Schultze, of the Carpet Weavers' Union,
assuring them that there was no need to go to war with Germany, because the German workers
had been shown the way to freedom, and would follow very soon; Schultze knew, because his brother
was editor of a Socialist paper in Leipzig, and he had inside information as to what was going
on in the Fatherland.

Then Comrade Smith, the editor of the Worker, was introduced, and the trouble began. The young
editor wasted no time in preliminaries; he was an international revolutionist, and no capitalist
government was going to draft him for its bloody knaveries. Never would he be led out to murder
his fellow-workers, whether in Germany, Austria, Bulgaria or Turkey; the masters of Wall Street
would find that when they set out to drive American free men to the slaughter-pen, they had
made the mistake of their greedy lives. "Understand me," declared Comrade Smith--though there
seemed so far to have been nothing in which anyone could possibly have misunderstood him--"understand
me, I am no pacifist, I am not opposed to war--it is merely that I purpose to choose the war
in which I fight. If they try to put a gun into my hands, I shall not refuse to take it--not
much, for I and my fellow wage-slaves have long wished for guns! But I shall use my own judgement
as to where I aim that gun--whether at enemies in front of me, or at enemies behind me--whether
at my brothers, the working-men of Germany, or at my oppressors, the exploiters of Wall Street,
their newspaper lackeys and military martinets!"

The sentences of this speech came like the blows of a hammer, and they struck forth a clamour
of applause from the audience. But suddenly the cheering crowd became aware that something
out of the ordinary was happening. An aged, white-whiskered man clad in a faded blue uniform
had risen from his seat in the middle of the hall and was shouting and waving his arms. People
near him were trying to pull him down into his seat, but he would not be squelched, he went
on shouting; and the audience in part fell silent out of curiosity. "Shame! Shame!" they heard
him cry. "Shame upon you!" And he pointed a trembling finger at the orator, declaring, "You
are talking treason, young man!"

"Sit down!" shrieked the crowd. "Shut up!"

But the old man turned upon them. "Are there no Americans at all in this audience? Will you
listen to this shameless traitor without one word?"

People caught him by the coat-tails, men shook their fists at him; at the other side of the
hall "Wild Bill" leaped upon a chair, shrieking: "Cut his throat, the old geezer!"

Two policemen came running down the aisle, and the "old geezer" appealed to them: "What are
you here for, if not to protect the flag and the honour of America?" But the policemen insisted
that he stop interrupting the meeting, and so the old man turned and stalked out from the hall.
But he did not go until he had turned once more and shaken his fist at the crowd, yelling in
his cracked voice, "Traitors! Traitors!"

V

Poor Jimmie remained in his seat, overwhelmed. That he, the most devoted of workers for Socialism,
should have been the cause of such a disgraceful scene--bringing to this revolutionary meeting
a man in the uniform of a killer of the working-class! He could not stay and face the comrades;
before the speaking had finished, he gave Lizzie a nudge, and the two got up and stole out,
dodging everyone they knew.

Outside they stood in perplexity. They thought, of course, that the old man would have driven
away without them; they pictured the long walk from the trolley-line in the darkness and mud--and
with Lizzie dressed in her only Sunday-go-to-meeting! But when they went to the place where
Mr. Drew had left his buggy, to their surprise they found him patiently waiting for them. Seeing
them hesitate, he said, "Come! Get in!" They were much embarrassed, but obeyed, and the old
mare started her amble towards home.

They rode for a long time in silence. Finally Jimmie could not stand it, and began, "I'm so
sorry, Mr. Drew. You don't understand--" But the old man cut him off. "There's no use you and
me tryin' to talk, young man." So they rode the rest of the way without a sound--except that
once Jimmie imagined he heard Lizzie sobbing to herself.

Jimmie really felt terribly about it, for he had for this old soldier a deep respect, even
an affection. Mr. Drew had made his impression not so much by his arguments, which Jimmie considered
sixty years out of date, as by his personality. Here was one patriot who was straight! What
a pity that he could not understand the revolutionary point of view! What a pity that he had
to be made angry! It was one more of the horrors of war, which tore friends apart, and set
them to disputing and hating one another.

At least, that was the way it seemed to Jimmie that night, while he was still full of the speeches
he had heard. But at other times doubts assailed him--for, of course, a man cannot defy and
combat a whole community without sometimes being led to wonder whether the community may not
have some right on its side. Jimmie would hear of things the Germans had done in the war; they
were such dirty fighters, they went out of their way to do such utterly revolting and useless,
almost insane things! They made it so needlessly hard for anyone who tried to defend them to
think of them even as human beings. Jimmie would argue that he did not mean to help the Germans;
he would resent bitterly the charges of the Leesville newspapers that he was a German agent
and a traitor; but he could not get away from the uncomfortable fact that the things he was
doing DID have a tendency to further German interests, at least for a time.

When that was pointed out to him by some patriot in a controversy, his answer would be that
he was appealing to the German Socialists to revolt against their military leaders; but then
the patriot would begin to find fault with the German Socialists, declaring that they were
much better Germans than Socialists, and citing utterances and actions to prove it. One German
Socialist had stood up in the Reichstag and declared that the Germans had two ways of fighting--their
armies overcame their enemies in the field, while their Socialists undermined the morale of
the workers in enemy countries. When that passage was read to Jimmie, he answered that it was
a lie; no such speech had ever been made by a Socialist. He had no way of proving it was a
lie, of course; he just knew it! But then, when he went away and thought it over, he began
to wonder; suppose it were true! Suppose the German workers had been so drilled and schooled
in childhood that even those who called themselves revolutionists were patriots at heart! Jimmie
would begin to piece this and that together--things he had heard or read. Certainly these German
Socialists were not displaying any great boldness in fighting their government!

The answer was that they could not oppose their government, because they would be put in jail.
But that was a pretty poor answer; it was their business to go to jail--if not, what right
had they to expect Jimmie Higgins to go here in America? Jimmie presented this problem to Comrade
Meissner, who answered that if Jimmie would go first, then doubtless the German comrades would
follow. But Jimmie could not see why he should be first; and when they tried to clear up the
reason, it developed that down in his heart Jimmie had begun to believe that Germany was more
to blame for the war than America. And not merely would Comrade Meissner not admit that, but
he became excited and vehement, trying to convince Jimmie that the other capitalist governments
of the world were the cause of the war--Germany was only defending herself against them! So
there they were, involved in a controversy, just like any two non-revolutionary people! Repeating
over the same arguments which had gone on in the local between Norwood, the lawyer, and Schneider,
the brewer; only this time Jimmie was taking the side of Norwood! Jimmie found himself face
to face with the disconcerting fact that his devoted friend Meissner was a German--and therefore
in some subtle way different from him, unable to see things as he did!

CHAPTER XIII

JIMMIE HIGGINS DODGES TROUBLE

I

War or no war, the soil had to be ploughed and seed sown; so John Cutter came to his tenant
and proposed that he should resume his job as farm-hand. Only he must agree to shut up about
the war, for while Cutter himself was not a rabid patriot, he would take no chances of having
his tenant-house burned down some night. So there was another discussion in the Higgins family.
Lizzie remembered how, during the previous summer, Jimmie had worked from dawn till dark, and
been too tired even to read Socialist papers, to say nothing of carrying on propaganda; which
seemed to the distracted wife of a propagandist the most desirable condition possible! Poor
Eleeza Betooser--twice again she had been compelled to take down the stocking from her right
leg, and unsew the bandage round her ankle, and extract another of those precious yellow twenty-dollar
bills; there were only seven of them left now, and each of them was more valuable to Lizzie
than her eye-teeth.

Jimmie finally agreed that he would gag himself, so far as concerned this country-side. What
was the use of trying to teach anything to these barnyard fools? They wanted war, let them
go to war, and be blown to bits, or poisoned in the trenches! If Jimmie had propaganding to
do, he would do it in the city, where the working-men had brains, and knew who their enemies
were. So once more Jimmie harnessed up John Cutter's horses to the plough, and went out into
John Cutter's field to raise another crop of corn for a man whom he hated. All day he guided
the plough or the harrow, and at night he fed and cared for the horses and the cows, and then
he came home and ate his supper, listening to the rattling of the long freight-train that went
through his backyard, carrying materials for the making of TNT.

For the great explosives plant was now working day and night, keeping the war in Jimmie's thoughts
all the time, whether he would or not. In the midnight hours the trains of finished materials
went out, making Jimmie's windows rattle with their rumble and clatter, and bearing his fancies
away to the battle-line across the seas, where men were soon to be blown to pieces with the
contents of these cars. One night something went wrong on the track, and the train stopped
in his backyard, and in the morning he saw the cars, painted black, with the word "danger"
in flaming red letters. On top of the cars walked a man with a club in his hand and a bulge
on his hip, keeping guard.

It appeared that someone had torn up a rail in the night, evidently for the purpose of wrecking
the train; so there came a detective to Jimmie, while he was working in the field, to cross-question
him. They had Jimmie's record, and suspected him of knowing more than he would tell. "Aw, go
to hell!" exclaimed the irate Socialist. "D'you suppose, if I'd wanted to smash anything, I'd
done it on the place where I work?" And then, when he went home to dinner, he found that they
had been after Lizzie, and had frightened her out of her wits. They had threatened to turn
them out of their home; Jimmie saw himself hounded here and there by this accursed war--until
it finished by seizing him and dragging him to the trenches!

II

The new Congress had met, and declared a state of war with Germany, and the whole country was
rushing into arms. Men were enlisting by hundreds of thousands; but that was not enough for
the militarists--they wanted a conscription-law, so that every man might be compelled to go.
If they were so sure of themselves and their wonderful war, why weren't they satisfied to let
those fight it who wanted to? So argued the rebellious Jimmie and his anti-militarist associates.
But no! the militarists knew perfectly well that the bulk of the people did not want to fight,
so they proposed to make them fight. Every energy of the Socialist movement was now concentrated
on the blocking of this conscription scheme.

