Barbarie is a faute, whych turneth the speche frõ his purenes, and maketh it foule and rude,
and the partes be these.

[Sidenote: Barbarismus.] Barbarismus is, when a worde is either naughtely wrytten or pronoũced
cõtrary to the ryght law & maner of speakynge. And it is done by addicion, detracciõ, chaunging,
transposynge, eyther of a letter, a syllable, tyme, accent or aspiraciõ. Hereof we haue shewed
exampels partly wher they be called figures, and partly, doute ye not, but both the speakynge
and wrytyng of barbarouse men wyll gyue you inow. Hytherto be referred the fautes of euil pronouncing
certein letters, & of to much gapyng, or contrarye of speakyng in the mouth.

[Sidenote: Solecismus.] Inconueniens structura, is an vnmete and vnconuenient ioynynge together
the partes of spech in construccion, whych is marked by all thynges that belong to the partes
of speche: as when one parte is put for another, when gender for gender, case for case, tyme
for tyme, mode for mode, number for number, aduerbe for aduerbe, preposicion for preposiciõ,
whych because it is vsed of famous authores, instede of fautes, be called figures.

Vertue.

Vertue, or as we saye, a grace & dygnitye in speakynge, the thyrde kynde of Scheme, is when
the sentence is bewtyfied and lyfte vp aboue the comen maner of speaking of the people. Of
it be two kyndes: Proprietie and garnyshyng.

Proprietie and his partes.

Proprietie is when in wryting and pronunciacion ther be no fautes committed, but thynges done
as they shulde be. The partes bee proposicion, and accenting.

[Sidenote: Analogia.] Proportio, proporcion is, whereby the maner of true wrytynge is conserued.
By thys the barbarous tonge is seperated from the verye true and naturall speche, as be the
fyne metals from the grosser. To speke is no faute, but an obseruacion or markyng, not leanyng
vpõ cause, but vpon example. For in eloquence, the iudgement of excellẽt men standeth for reason,
as saythe Quintilian in hys fyrst boke.

[Sidenote: Tasis.] Extensio, is that wherby a swete and pleasaunt modulacion or tunablenes
of wordes is kepte, because some are spoken wyth a sharpe tenure or accent, some wyth a flatte,
some strayned out. This grace specially perteineth to a turnyng of y^e voyce in pleasaunte
pronunciation.

Garnyshyng and his kyndes.

Garnishyng as the word it selfe declareth, is whẽ the oraciõ is gaylye set oute and floryshed
w^t diuerse goodly figures, causyng much pleasauntnes and delectaciõ to the hearer: and hath
two kyndes, composicion, and exornacion.

[Sidenote: Sinthesis.] Composicion is an apte settinge together of wordes, whych causeth all
the partes of an oracion to bee trymmed al alyke. And in it muste be considered that we so
order our wordes, that the sentence decrease not by puttynge a weaker word after a stronger,
but that it styl go vpwarde and increase. There is also a naturall order, as to saye: men &
women, daye and nyght, easte, and weste, rather then backewardes. In thys muste be auoyded
also to often comyng together of vowels, which make the oracion wyde and gapyng. To muche repetyng
of all one letter in the beginning of wordes, to much repeting of one word, and that they ende
not to much all alyke, that the sentence be not held on to longe, which werieth the hearer,
and the speaker: nor that manye consonãtes run not to harshely together, wyth many other, which
Cicero speaketh of in hys thyrde booke of hys oratour, and Quintilian in hys nynth, wherof
here to put examples were to longe.

Exornacion is a fyne polyshinge of wordes and sentences by disseueryng thẽ w^t diuerse goodly
colours and tropes or chaũgings of speach.

Tropes.

Emonge authors manye tymes vnder the name of figures, Tropes also be comprehended: Neuerthelesse
ther is a notable difference betwixt thẽ. In figure is no alteracion in the wordes frõ their
proper significacions, but only is the oracion & sẽtence made by thẽ more plesaũt, sharpe &
vehemẽt, after y^e affecciõ of him that speketh or writeth: to y^e which vse although tropes
also do serue, yet properlye be they so called, because in them for necessitye or garnyshynge,
there is a mouynge and chaungynge of a worde and sentence, from theyr owne significaciõ into
another, whych may agre wyth it by a similitude. The former partes ben these.

[Sidenote: Metaphora.] Translatio, translacion, that is a worde translated from the thynge
that it properlye signifieth, vnto another whych may agre with it by a similitude. And amonge
all vertues of speche, this is the chyefe. ¶ None perswadeth more effecteouslye, none sheweth
the thyng before oure eyes more euidently, none moueth more mightily the affeccions, none maketh
the oraciõ more goodlye, pleasaunt, nor copious.

Translacions be diuerse.

[Sidenote: i.] Some frõ the body to the mynd, as: I haue but lately tasted the Hebrue tonge,
for newely begunne it. Also I smell where aboute you go, for I perceyue.

[Sidenote: ii.] From the reasonable to the vnresonable, as Vyrgyll in hys Georgexe applyed
the counselles and fashion of warres belongynge to men; to bees.

[Sidenote: iii.] From the vnreasonable to the resonable. What whinest thou, what chatterest
thou? That one taken of a wolfe, that other of a pye.

[Sidenote: iiii.] From the liuinge to the not liuyng. The mouthe of the well, the fatnes of
the earth. The lande wyl spewe them oute.

[Sidenote: v.] From the not lyuynge to the liuyng. Cicero florisheth in eloquẽce.

[Sidenote: vi.] From the liuyng, to the liuynge. The iews winched against Moses.

[Sidenote: vii.] From the not liuinge to the not liuynge. The wordes flewe oute of hys mouth.
He is good for a greue wounde.

[Sidenote: Catachresis.] Abusio, when for a certeyne and proper worde, we abuse a lyke, or
that is nie vnto it, as when we say: longe counsel, lytle talke, smal matter. Here maye we
soone perceyue that by abusion wee take wordes that be somwhat nye, whych property do belong
to vnlyke thinges.

[Sidenote: Metalepsis.] Transsumptio, Transsũpcion, is when by degrees we go to y^t that is
shewed as: he hyd hym selfe in the blacke dennes. By blacke is vnderstand ful of darkenes &
consequently stepe downe and verye depe.

[Sidenote: Metonomia.] Metonomya, Transnominacion, when a worde that hathe a proper significacion
of hys owne, beynge referred to another thing, hath another: & this is done diuerse waies.

[Sidenote: i.] When the chiefe master or doar of a thyng is put for y^e thing it self, as:
Put vpon you the Lorde Iesus Christ. Also: you play Iudas w^t me.

[Sidenote: ii.] When the place, or that that cõteineth, is put for the thyng that is in it,
as: All the round earthe prayseth God. Oxforth (some say) hath not forsaken all popery, for
the studentes therin.

[Sidenote: iii.] When that that is conteyned is put for that that doth conteine, as: The fryer
Austens is goodly buylded, for y^e house wher y^e fryers wer.

[Sidenote: iiii.] When the doer is put for that y^t is done, as: God brought the Israelites
out of Egypte wyth a stretched out arme, and stronge hande. Also: Is gods hand drawen in? for
power and strength.

[Sidenote: v.] When y^t is done is put for y^e doer.

[Sidenote: Synecdoche.] Intellectio, Intelleccion whẽ one thyng is vnderstand by another y^t
is of the same maner and kynd, and this is done many wayes.

[Sidenote: i.] When of the whole is vnderstãd a parte, as: Abraham set a calfe before them,
for calues fleshe.

[Sidenote: ii.] By a parte the whole, as: He receyued the straũgers vnder the succour of hys
house rofe, for into hys house.

[Sidenote: iii.] By one many, as: The Frenchemã in y^e batail had the ouerthrow.

[Sidenote: iiii.] By a kynd y^e general, as: If thou se thyne enemies Asse fal vnder his burden,
for cattell.

[Sidenote: v.] By the general the kynd: Eue the mother of al liuing things, for of al mẽ: Preach
to al creaturs, to al mẽ

[Sidenote: vi.] By that goeth before, the thynge that foloweth, as: He set hys spurres to hys
horse, for he rode a pace, or fled faste awaye.

[Sidenote: vii.] By that y^t foloweth, the thinge wente before, as: I got it wyth the swete
of my face, for w^t my labour.

[Sidenote: viii.] By the matter, y^e thynge that is made of it, as: Fleshe and bloude shewed
the not it.

¶ [Sidenote: ix.] By the signe, y^e thyng y^t is signified as: Lo, naw the toppe of the chymneyes
in the villages smoke a farre of: wherby Vyrgyl signifieth night to be at hande.

[Sidenote: Pronominacio.] Antonomasia is, whych for y^e proper name putteth some other word:
As: the Archebyshop confuted the errour, for Cranmer. The Philosopher lyed that the worlde
was eternall, for Aristotle. The Apostle sayeth wee be iustified by faythe, for Paule.

[Sidenote: Periphrasis.] Circuicio, is a larger descripcion eyther to garnyshe it, or if it
bee foule to hyde it, or if it be bryefe to make it more playn: by etimology, by sygnes, by
definicion. ¶ Example of the fyrste: The prouidẽce of Scipio ouerthrew y^e might of Carthage.
Here saue onlye for garnyshyng sake he myghte haue sayde playnlye: Scipio ouerthrew Carthage.
Of the nexte: When Saule was doyng his busines, Dauid might haue killed hym. Doyng hys busines,
ye wot what it meaneth. Of y^e thyrd, you haue the larger exposicions vpon the Gospels called
by the name of thys figure.

By Etymologie or shewyng the reasõ of the name. Well maye he be called a parasite, for a parasite
is y^t loueth other because of his meat.

By sygnes, as when by certeine notes, we describe anye thynge, as if a man vnderstãdyng anger
wyll saye that it is the boylynge of the mynde, or color whych bryngeth in palenes into the
coũtenaũce, fiersenes of the eies, and trẽblyng in the members.

By destincion. The arte of well indyghting, for Rethorique.

The second parte of Trope.

Allegoria, the seconde parte of Trope is an inuersion of wordes, where it is one in wordes,
and another in sentence or meanynge.

[Sidenote: Aenigma.] Sermo obscurus, a riddle or darke allegorie, as: The halfe is more thẽ
the hole.

[Sidenote: Paremia.] Adagium, a sayinge muche vsed and notable for some noueltye, as: The wolfe
is in our tale.

[Sidenote: Ironia.] Dissimulatio, is a mockyng whiche is not perceiued by the wordes but eyther
by the pronũciacion, or by the behaueour of the person or by the nature of the thyng, as You
are an honest man in deede.

[Sidenote: Sarcasmus.] Amara irrisio, is a bitter sporting & mocke of our enemye, of a maner
of iestyng or scoffinge bytynglye, a nyppyng tawnte, as: The Iewes saide to Christ, he saued
other, but he could not saue hym selfe.

[Sidenote: Astysmus.] Festiua urbanitas, is a certen mery conceyted speakyng, as on a tyme
a mery felow metynge w^t one that had a very whyte head, axed him if he had lyen in the snowe
al nyght.

[Sidenote: Mycterismus.] Subsannatio, a skornyng by some iesture of the face, as by wrythinge
the nose, putting out the tonge, pottyng, or suche lyke.

[Sidenote: Antiphrasis.] Dictio cõtrariũ significans, when the mock is in a worde by a contrarye
sence, as when we call a fustilugges, a minion.

[Sidenote: Charientismus.] Graciosa nugatio, when wordes roughly spokẽ be molified by pleasaunt
wordes: as when we saye to hym that threatneth vs: I praye you be good master to me.

The fyrst order of the figures Rethoricall.

[Sidenote: Epanaphora] Repeticio, repeticion, when in lyke and diuerse thynges, we take our
begynnyng cõtinually at one & the selfe same word, thus: To you this thyng is to be ascribed,
to you thanke is to be geuen, to you thys thynge shal be honour. In this exornacion is much
plesantnes, grauitie, and sharpnes, & it is much vsed of al oratours, & notably setteth oute,
and garnysheth the oracion.

[Sidenote: Antistrophe.] Conuersio, conuersion is whych taketh not hys begynnynges at al one
and the same worde, but w^t all one worde styll closeth vp the sentence, & it is contrary to
that other before, as: Sence the time y^e cõcord was takẽ awaye from the citie, lyberty was
takẽ awai: fidelity was takẽ away: frẽship was takẽ away.

[Sidenote: Symploce.] Cõplexio, complexion cõpriseth both two exornacions, both this, & that
whych we declared before, y^t both all one fyrste worde shulde be oftẽ repeted, & we shuld
turne often to all one laste word, as: Who toke Sedechias prisoner, & put out both hys eyes?
Nabuchodonozer. Who put Daniell and hys felowes into the burnyng furnace? Nabuchodonozer. Who
was transformed frõ a man into a beast, & eate haye wyth oxen? Nabuchodonozer.

[Sidenote: Anadiplosis.] Reduplicatio, is a continent rehearsyng agayne of all one worde, or
wordes, for the more vehemence, and some affect of the mynde. Cicero agaynst Catiline. Yet
he liueth, liueth: yea commeth also into the counsel house. It is thou, it is thou that troublest
all the houshold. ¶ Also, dareste thou nowe come into our syght, y^e traitour of thy cõtrei?
Thou traitour I say of thy contrei, darest thou come into oure syght?

[Sidenote: Epanodus.] Traduccio, Traduccion is, whyche maketh that whẽ all one word is oftentymes
vsed, that yet it doth not onlye not displease the mynde, but also make y^e oracion more trim
in this wyse: Suffer ryches to belonge to riche men, but prefer thou vertue before ryches.
For if y^u wylt compare ryches wyth vertue, thou shalte scarse thynke them meete to be called
ryches, whych ar but hãdmaydens to vertue. Also, we are vnto God the swete sauour of Christ.
To the one part are we the sauour of death vnto deathe, and vnto the other part are we the
sauour of lyfe vnto lyfe .ii.Cor.ii.

[Sidenote: Sinonimia] Nominis cõmunio, cõmunion of the word, when we renewe not the selfe same
worde by rehearsyng agayn, but chaunge that that is put wyth an other word of the same valewe,
thus: Thou hast ouerthrowen the comon wealth euen from the foundacion, and cast downe the citye,
euen from the roote. The iuste man shall floryshe as the palme tre, and shall be multiplyed
as the Ceder tre. Cicero for .Q. Ligarius. ¶ Whose syde wolde that poynte of thy swerd haue
pricked? what meaned thy weapons? what was thy mynde? what meante thyne eyes? handes, that
burning of thy mynd? what desiredst y^u? what wyshedste thou? Lytle differeth thys figure from
the other before, only because the wordes be chaũged, the sentẽce remayning.

[Sidenote: Sinathrismus.] Frequentacio, frequentacion is, when the thynges that be dispersed
thorowout all the cause, are gathered together into one place that y^e oracion shulde be the
wayghtier, & rebukefuller, thus: What faute is he without? why shuld you O Iudges be mynded
to deliuer hym? He is an harlot of hys owne bodye, he lyeth in wayte for others, gredy, intemperate,
wanton, proud, vnnatural to his parentes, vnkynd to hys frindes, troubleous to hys kynsefolke,
stubborn to hys betters, dysdaynful to his equals, cruel to hys inferiours, finally, intollerable
to all men.

[Sidenote: Epiphonesis.] Exclamacio, exclamaciõ is, whiche sheweth the signification of sorowe,
or of anger, by callyng vpon eyther a man, a place, or a thynge? Cicero in hys oratour: O deceitful
hope of men, and frayle fortune: & our vayne contencions, whych oftẽ tymes are broken in the
myd way, rushe downe, and in the fal ar quite ouerthrowen before they can se the hauen. Hereunto
belõgeth expectaciõ, obtestaciõ, wishyng, rebuking.

[Sidenote: Areia.] Execracio, execracion: O fye vpon Idolatry, that taketh away the honoure
due vnto God alone, and geueth it to synfull creatures, and Images made by mans hand.

[Sidenote: Deesis.] Obtestacio, obtestacion, whẽ for God, or for mannes sake we vehemently
desyre to haue any thynge. As Cicero for Publius Sestius: O I praye you, & for the Gods sakes
most herteli besech you, y^t as it was your wylles to saue me, so you wyl vouchsaf to saue
thẽ thorew whose helpe you receiued me agayne.

[Sidenote: Euche.] Votum, wyshynge: O wolde God that the adulterer had bene drowned in the
ragyng sea, whan wyth hys nauye of shyppes he sayled to Lacedemonia.

[Sidenote: Epiplexis] Increpacio, Cicero agaynst Catiline: Thynkest thou that thy counselles
are not knowen? and that we knowe not what thou dyddest the laste nyghte? and what the nyghte
before?

[Sidenote: Erotesis.] Interrogacio, Euerye interrogaciõ is not of grauity, neither yet a Scheme,
but thys whyche when those thinges be rehearsed vp whiche hurte oure aduersaryes cause, strengthneth
that thynge that is gone before, thus seynge then that he spake all these wordes, and dyd all
these thynges, whether dyd he put away our felowes myndes frõ the cõmon wealthe or not?

[Sidenote: Erotema.] Raciocinatio, raciocinacion is, by the whych we our selues axe a reason
of oure selfe, wherefore euerye thynge shulde be spoken, & that oftentymes we demaund of our
selues a declaracion of euery proposicion after thys maner: Thys was well ordeined of oure
elders to depryue no kynge of hys lyfe whome they had taken in batayl. Why so? for the power
whyche fortune had geuen vs, it to consume in the punyshement of them whom the same fortune
a lytle before had set in hyeste degree, were agaynste reason. Yea but he brought a greate
army agaynst you? I wyl not remember it. Why so? For it is the poynte of a valiaunte man, suche
as contend for the vyctorye, them to count enemyes: suche as be ouercome, those to count mẽ:
so that fortitude maye diminishe war, humanitie increase peace. But he if he had ouercome,
wolde he haue done so? Verelye he wolde not haue bene so wyse. Why shulde ye spare hym then?
because such foly I am wont to despise, not to folowe.

[Sidenote: Prosapodosis.] Subiectio, when we axe of oure selfe what can be saide agaynst vs,
and answere to our selues thus: ¶ Shall we tary in synne? God forbyd. Or compell our aduersarye
to answer thus: O Iewes, what can you say for denyall of Christe. Wyl you saye that you haue
not youre Messias? but your prophets say the contrarye. Your Types are confoũded. Whom wyl
you be iudged by? by Hystories? Oures declare that you be out of the way, & shall come agayne
to Christ.

[Sidenote: Antiphora.] Tacite obiectioni responsio. whẽ we make answere to a thynge that myght
priuely be obiected agaynst vs, as in the fyrst epystle of Ouide, Penelope wylling her husband
Vlysses to come home hymselfe, and wryte nothyng vnto her. Wher he myght haue layed for hys
tarying the warres, she priuely toke away y^t excuse, saying: Troy is destroied.

[Sidenote: Aporia.] Dubitatio, Dubitacion; when wee doute of two thynges, or of many, which
we shuld inespecially speke of. Much hurted the cõmonwealth at that tyme, whether I shuld saye
the folyshenesse of the consolles, or the malyce, or bothe, I can not tell.

[Sidenote: Apophasis.] Expeditio, expedicion, when many reasons rehearsed vp, wherby a thynge
myghte be done or not, the other are taken away, and one left that we entende, thus: It muste
needes bee that thys controuersie touching the sacrament must stand eyther vpon the much pressyng
and rigour of the wordes; or vpon the meanynge and vnderstandynge of them. The wordes as they
stande, brynge wyth them greate inconuenience, to wytte, to expositoures, and the other textes.
The meaning doth not so but auoydeth al these incõueniences, & satisfieth reason, expositours,
& texts of the scripture, wherfore wyt, expositour, & scripture thinketh it better to take
the sentence, then the worde.

[Sidenote: Epilogus.] Conclusio, conclusiõ is, which by a brief argumẽtacion of these thinges
that be spoken before or done, inferreth that thynge that necessarilye shulde folowe, thus:
And if a reuelacion wer geuen to the Troianes, y^t Troy myght not be taken without y^e arowes
of Philectetes, and thei did nothing else but strike Alexander to kyl him that in dede was
Troy to be taken.

[Sidenote: Epitrope.] Permissio, permission, when we shew y^t we geue & graũt any thyng altogether
to a mans wyll, thus: ¶ Because al thynges takẽ away, only is left vnto me my body & mynd,
these thynges, whych only ar lefte vnto me of many, I graunte thẽ to you and to your power.

[Sidenote: Anacinosis.] Cõmunicacio, cõmunicacion is, when we leaue sumwhat to y^e Iudges to
be estemed, thus: I leaue vnto you o iudges to be thought what hurt y^e cõmõ welth shal take
hereof Diuisio, [Sidenote: Dialisis.] diuision is which diuiding one thyng frõ another, endeth
thẽ both by shewing a reasõ, thus: why shuld I lay ani thing to thi charge? if y^u bee good,
y^u haste not deserued it, if thou be naught, thou carest not for it. Also, what shuld I speake
of myne owne good turnes towarde the. If thou do remember them, I shuld but trouble you: If
you haue forgotten them, when by deede I haue profited nothyng, what good can I do in wordes?

[Sidenote: Antitheton.] Contentio, contencion, when the reason stãdeth by contrary wordes or
contraries be rehearsed by cõparison, thus: Flattery hath pleasaũt begynnynges, but the same
hathe verye bytter endynges. Cicero agaynst Catiline: when they coulde not lyue honestlye,
they had rather dye shamefully. They that be after the fleshe, care for these thynges y^t be
of the fleshe. They that be after the spirite, care for the thynges of the spirite.

[Sidenote: Antithesis.] Contrarium, contrary is, that of two diuerse thynges confirmeth y^e
one bryefely and easelye, thus: For he that alwayes wyll be an enemy to hys owne rekenyngs,
how shuld a man trust that he wold be a frind to other mens matters? He that in familiare cõmunicacion
and company of hys friendes wyl neuer say truth, thinkest thẽ y^t he wil absteine from a lye
in a cõmon audience.

[Sidenote: Colon.] Membrum oracionis, a mẽber of the reasõ is so called when a thinge is shewed
perfitely in fewe wordes the whole sentence not shewed, but receyued agayne w^t an other parte,
thus: Thou dyddest bothe profite thyne enemie, and hurte thy frynd. Thys exornacion may be
made of two partes only, but the perfiteste is made of thre, thus: Thou diddest profite thine
enemy, hurt thi frind, and dydst no good to thy selfe.

[Sidenote: Dialyton.] Articulus, article is, when eche word is set asunder by cutting the oracion
thus. By sharpnes, voyce, countenaunce, thou madeste thyne enemyes afrayd. Thou destroyedst
thyne enemyes wyth enuye, wronges, power, falsehead.

[Sidenote: Isocolon.] Compar, euen or equall, is when the oracion hath in it the partes of
the whyche we spake before, & that they be made of euen number of sillables: but thys equalitie
must not stand by numbrynge of them, but by perceyuyng of it in y^e mynd. Christe afore the
Iudge was led, & on hys head a croune of thorne was putte, in token that in dede, the kynge
of Iews he was borne. Here be some mo wordes in on mẽber then in an other, yet sound they to
the eare of lyke lengthe.

[Sidenote: Homioptotõ] Similiter cadens, fallyng al alike is, when in the same construccion
of wordes ther be two wordes or mo which be spoken alyke in the selfe same cases, thus: Thou
praysest a man nedye of vertue, plenteful of money. Cicero for Flaccus: There is in thẽ no
varietie of opinion, none of wyll, none of talke.

[Sidenote: Homoteleto.] Similiter desinens, endynge al alyke, when words or sentẽces haue alyke
endyng, as: Thou dareste do fylthely, and studiest to speke baudely. Content thy selfe w^t
thy state, in thy herte do no man hate, be not the cause of stryfe and bate.

[Sidenote: Climax.] Gradacio, is, when we rehearse again the word y^t goth next before, & descẽd
to other thinges by degrees thus: To Affrican industry gat vertue, vertue glory, glory hatered.
[Sidenote: Orismus.] Definicio, definiciõ, wher by y^e proper effect of any thynge is declared
briefely & absolutely in this wyse: This is not diligẽce but couetousnes, because y^t diligẽce
is a nedy sauing of thine own: couetousnes is a wrongful desyre of other mens. ¶ [Sidenote:
Metabasis.] Transicio, transiciõ is, wherby briefly we monyshe what hath ben spoken, & what
may folowe, as: What he hath ben to hys contrey I haue told, now ye shal hear how he hath shewed
him self to hys parẽtes. Also Cicero for the law of Manilius: Because we haue spoken of y^e
kind of the warre, now wyll we shewe a fewe thynges of the greatnes of it. ¶ [Sidenote: Paralepsis.]
Occupatia, occupacion is, when we make as though we do not knowe, or wyl not know of y^e thyng
y^t wee speke of most of al, in this wyse: I wyl not say that y^u tokest money of our felowes,
I wyl not stand much in thys that y^u robbedst kingdoms, cityes, and al mens houses: I passe
ouer thy theftes, & al thy rauyns. ¶ [Sidenote: Asindeton.] Dissolutio, when the oracion lacketh
coniũccions, thus: Obey thy parẽtes, be ruled by thi kinsfolke, folow thy fryndes, obey the lawes.

[Sidenote: Apostrophe.] Auersio, auersion, when we turne our speche from them to whom we dyd
speake to another personne, eyther present or absent, or to a thing to the whych we fayne a
person, as a precher, speaking of priestes, that feede not the flocke, may fytly turn hys speche
vnto Peter, sayinge: O Peter, I wold thou liuedst, & sawest what thy brethren do, howe far
they be gone frõ that thou prescribedst them to do. Againe: O world, howe pleasant be the thynges
that thou dost promyse, how bytter ben they that thou geuest.

[Sidenote: Anangeon.] Necessum, necessitie, when we cõfesse the thynge to be done, but excuse
it by necessitye, eyther of y^e person or tyme, thus: I confesse that thys I dyd. But the woman
that thou gauest me, dyd deceyue me. Also, somtyme I was in that opinion, but the tyme so required.

[Sidenote: Anaclasis.] Refractio, that is the turninge backe agayne of a worde into a cõtrary
significacion, thus: I knowe kynge Ezechias that all thys lyfe is but bitternes, but I praye
thee, gyue me suche bytternes.

[Sidenote: Bomphiologia.] Verborum bombus, when small & triflyng thynges are set out wyth great
gasyng wordes. Example of this haue you in Terrence of the boasting souldiar, & creping smel feast.

[Sidenote: Miosis.] Diminutio, when greate matters are made lyghte of by wordes, as when he
was wel beatẽ bi a knaue, that knaue wyll saye he dyd but a lytle stryke hym.

[Sidenote: Liptote.] Extenuatio, the makyng lesse of a thynge to auoyde arrogance, thus: If
I haue any wit O Iudges, if any exercyse of endyghtyng, al may I thanke Archias the Poete of.
¶ Cicero for Archias.

[Sidenote: Diasirmus.] Eleuacio, when we make lyghte of, and dyspyse great argumentes brought
agaynst vs, whych to aunswer vnto it is labour, and we saye they perteyne not to the purpose,
or that they are vnworthy to be answered vnto, or that we kepe them tyll another tyme: Of thys
ther nedeth none example.

As oute of lytle springs ariseth greate fluddes: so now these preceptes of grammer finyshed,
and the fyrste order of the Rethorical figures: We nowe come vnto that greate declaracion of
eloquence, called of Quintilian & Cicero, the ornametẽs of sentence.

Figures of sentence.

[Sidenote: Particio.] Particion called also diuision & distribucion rethoricall, is when a
thing that mai be generally spokẽ, is more largely declared, and diuided into partes. Example:
He is perfitely seene in all the sciences. ¶ This sẽtence spoken as it were in a sũme, may
be enlarged, if seuerally you reherse vp al the kindes of learning. There is no kynd of doctrine
at al but he is exquisitely sene in it. There is no science, but he hathe learned it thorowly,
and so learned it, that you wolde thynke he had labored onely in it. So maruelouslye he knoweth
all the fables of al the Poetes, he so aboundeth in the floures of the Rethoricians: He hath
so boulted oute the paynefull rules of the gramarians. So perfitely knoweth he the subtilnesse
of the Logicians, and hath so soughte oute the priuities of natural thynges, and ouercome the
harde poyntes of supernaturall wisedome: he hathe passed thorowe the secretes of the diuines,
and hath thorowlie perceyued the mathematical demõstracions. He so knoweth the mocions of the
starres, the reasons of numbers, the measurynges of the earth, the situacions, names & spaces
of cities, mountaynes, fluddes, and fountaynes, he so knoweth the difference and harmonies
of tunes: He so remẽbreth all hystoryes olde and late: So knoweth all good authors, all antiquities
& nouelties, and also is perfitelye well seene as wel in Greke as latyne. Finallye whatsoeuer
learnynge hathe bene found and taught of good authors, al that thorowlye hath he perceyued,
knowen and remẽbred. Here these wordes, he is perfitelye seene in all the sciences, bee declared
in theyr partes.

[Sidenote: Enumeracio.] Enumeracion is much lyke vnto thys, when not beynge contente at once
to declare the ende of the matter, we rehearse vp all y^t went before it was done. [Sidenote:
Enumeraciõ of thynges that go before] Example: Cicero oppressed the mischeuous purposes of
Catiline. Thus maye you set it forth: The myscheuous enterpryses of Catiline by most vngracious
yonge men, whych went about the destruccion of the citie of Rome, M Tullius the consull dyd
quickelye smell out by hys foresyghte, and by hys singuler vigilancye sought thẽ oute, by his
hyghe prudence espyed them, by his incredible eloquence conuinced them, and by hys graue authoritie
repressed thẽ, by force of armes subdued them, & with great happines toke them quyte awaye.

[Sidenote: Enumeraciõ of the causes.] Hitherto also apperteineth, whẽ we expoũd a thyng not
barely, but repete the causes also sumwhat before, and of what begynnynges it came of. As if
not contente to haue sayd, that the Frenchmen made bataile with the Neapolitans, we rehearse
also what wer the causes of theyr stryfe, who was the setter forward, and what was the occasion
of the warre, what hope and truste eyther of them had to the victorye. Of these ar many examples
in Saluste & Liuie. [Sidenote: Enumeraciõ of effectes, & consequẽtes.] From thys differeth
not when we do not simplye shewe forthe the matter, but reherse also those thynges that eyther
go with it, or folowe it, as thus: We thanke the of thys warre. Thus maye you dilate the matter.
The treasure spente vpon the Barbariens, the youthe broken wyth laboures, the corne troden
downe, the catel driuen awaye, stretes and vyllages euery where set on fyre, fieldes lefte
desolate, walles ouerthrowen, houses robbed, temples spoyled, so many olde men chylderles,
so manye orphanes, so manye wyddowes, so many virgins shamefully defiled, y^e maners of so
many yong mẽ made worse by leude liberty, so many mẽ slayne, so great mourning, so many good
artes loste, lawes oppressed, religion blotted, al thynges of god and man confounded, all good
order of the citie corrupted: I say all this heape of myschiefs that riseth of war, we mai
thãke the only of it, which wast y^e beginner of this war

