"It does," said Dorcas serenely. "Very foolish indeed. You don't seem to realize that a dog
is only an animal. If you can get a nice home for the collie--such as John Iglehart will give
him--"

"Iglehart!" raged Link, momentarily losing hold over himself. "If that mangy, wall-eyed slob
comes slinking round my farm again, making friends with Chum, I'll sick the dog onto him; and
have him run Iglehart all the way to his own shack! He's--! There! I didn't mean to cut loose
like that!" he broke off at Dorcas's shudder of dismay. "Only it riles me something terrible
to have him trying to get Chum away from me."

"There is no occasion to go losing your temper and shouting," reproved the girl. "Nothing is
to be gained that way. Besides, that isn't the point. The point is this, since you force me
to say it: You must get rid of that dog. And you must do it before you marry me. I won't set
foot in your house until your dog is gone--and gone for good. I am sorry to speak so, but it
had to be said."

She paused to give her slave a chance to wilt. But Link only sat, blank-faced, staring at her.
His mind was in a muddle. All his narrow world was upside down. He couldn't make his brain
grasp in full the situation.

All he could visualize for the instant was a shadowy mental image of Chum's expectant face;
the tulip ears pricked forward, expectant; the jaws "laughing"; the deepset brown eyes abrim
with gay affection and deathless loyalty for the man who was now asked to get rid of him. It
didn't make sense. Half under his breath Link Ferris began to talk--or rather to ramble.

"There was one of the books over to the lib'ry," he heard himself meandering on, "with a queer
story in it. I got to reading it through, one night last winter. It was about a feller named
'Fed'rigo.' A wop of some kind, I guess. He got so hard up he didn't have anything left but
a pet falcon. Whatever a falcon may be. Whatever it  was, it must'a been good to eat. But he
set a heap of store by it. Him and it was chums. Same as me and Chum are. Then along come a
lady he was in love with. And she stopped to his house for dinner. There wasn't anything in
the house fit for her to eat. So he fed her the falcon. Killed the pet that was his chum, so's
he could feed the dame he was stuck on. I thought, when I read it, that that feller was more
kinds of a swine than I'd have time to tell you. But he wasn't any worse'n I'd be if I was to--"

"I'm sorry you care so little for me," intervened Dorcas, her voice very sweet and very cold,
and her slender nose whitening a little at the corners of the nostrils. "Of course if you prefer
a miserable dog to me, there's nothing more to be said. I--"

"No!" almost yelled the miserable man. "You've got me all wrong, dearie. Honest,  you have.
Can't you understand? Your little finger means a heap more to me than ev'rything else there
is--except the rest of you--"

"And your dog," she supplemented.

"No!" he denied fiercely. "You got no right to say that! But Chum's served me faithful. And
I can't kick him out like he was a--"

"Now you are getting angry again!" she accused, pale and furious. "I don't care to be howled
at. The case stands like this: You must choose whether to get rid of that dog or to lose me.
Take your choice. If--"

"I read in a story book about a feller that had a thing like that put up to him," said poor
Link, unable to believe she was in earnest. "His girl said: 'You gotta choose between me and
tobacco.' And he said: 'I'll choose tobacco. Not that I value tobacco so all-fired much,' he
says, 'but because a girl, who'd make a man take such a choice, ain't worth giving up tobacco
for.' You see, dearie, it's this way--"

"You'll have that dog out of your house and out of your possession, inside of twenty-four hours,"
she decreed, the white anger of a grave-eyed woman making her cold voice vibrate, "or you will
drop my acquaintance. That is final. And it's definite. The engagement is over--until I hear
that your dog is killed or given away or sold. Good night!"

She left the room in vindictive haste. So overwhelmingly angry was she that she closed the
door softly behind her, instead of slamming it. Through all his swirl of misery Link had sense
enough to note this final symptom and wonder bitterly at it.

On his way out of the house he was hailed by a highpitched baby voice from somewhere above
him. Olive had crawled out of bed, and in her white flannel pajamas she was leaning over the
upper balustrade.

"Link!" she called down to the wretched man at the front door. "When you and Dorcas gets married
together, I'm comin' to live wiv you! Then I can play wiv Chummie all I want to!"

Link bolted out to the street in the midst of her announcement. And, so occupied was he in
trying to swallow a lump in his own throat, he failed to hear the sound of stifled sobbing
from behind a locked door somewhere in the upper reaches of the house.

As the night wore on, the sleepless girl sought to comfort herself in the thought that Link
had not definitely refused her terms. A night's reflection and an attitude of unbending aloofness
on her own part might well bring him to a surrender.

Perhaps it was something in Link Ferris's dejected gait, as he turned into his own lane that
night, perhaps it was the instinct which tells a collie when a loved human is unhappy--but
Chum was at once aware of his master's woe. The dog, at first sound of Link's approaching steps,
bounded from his vigil place on the porch and frisked joyously through the darkness to meet
him. He sent forth a trumpeting bark of welcome as he ran.

Then--fifty feet from the oncoming man--the big collie halted and stood for an instant with
ears cocked and eyes troubled. After which he resumed his advance; but at a solemn trot and
with downcast mien. As he reached Link, the collie whined softly under his breath, gazing wistfully
up into Ferris's face and then thrusting his cold nose lovingly into one of the man's loose-hanging
hands.

Link had winced visibly at sound of the jubilantly welcoming bark. Now, noting the sudden change
in the collie's demeanor, he stooped and caught the silken head between his hands. The gesture
was rough, almost painful. Yet Chum knew it was a caress. And his drooping plume of a tail
began to wag in response.

"Oh, CHUM!" exclaimed the man with something akin to a groan. "You know all about it, don't
you, old friend? You know I'm the miser'blest man in North Jersey. You know it without me having
to say a word. And you're doing your level best to comfort me. Just like you always do. You
never get cranky; and you never say I gotta choose betwixt this and that; and you never get
sore at me. You're just my chum. And you're fool enough to think I'm all right. Yet she says
I gotta get rid of you!"

The dog pressed closer to him, still whining softly and licking the roughly caressing hands.

"What'm I going to do, Chummie?" demanded Link brokenly. "What'm I going to do about it? I
s'pose any other feller'd call me a fool--like she thinks I am and tell me to sell you. If
you was some dogs, that'd be all right. But not with YOU, Chum. Not with you. You'd mope and
grieve for me, and you'd be wond'ring why I'd deserted you after all these years. And you'd
get to pining and maybe go sick. And the feller that bought you wouldn't understand. And most
likely he'd whale you for not being more chipper-like. And you haven't ever been hit. I'd--I'd
a blame' sight sooner shoot you, than to let anyone else have you, to abuse you and let you
be unhappy for me, Chum. A blame' sight rather."

Side by side they moved on into the darkened house. There, with the dog curled at his feet,
Link Ferris lay broad awake until sunrise.

