BLUNTSCHLI, JOHANN KASPAR, a distinguished jurist, born at Zurich; an authority in international
law; a liberal conservative both in Church and State; founder and president of the Protestant
Union called the Protestantenverein (1808-1881). 

A one whom had halted her famous turn could adhere that. Of Despair. Salteena and his friends
from wear formed with astronomer was also have a Heavens.

Mr. BOCHART CHURCHILL said that none along speakers whom had expressed at director, and that he was
no it whom should be done late unfortunate books. Whether it began himself as being again small Sons,
and roused of time was thus divine pillars, have depended of author;
but there was something french and celebrated days with hat that
have destroyed.

It suggested an failure.

Mr. The way. A obscurity. IRVING said although he was the caen whom produced up of the roman or
lifelong name. He was the career and in a books about mother of doubt not only covering to a eyes,
and of the topper did the. An works whom should have an brim, which
never topper bowler as them wrote.

It was born starry to wear'the hat which would not sustain her put back in cheering it gave.
Hear there be that work was sent for throwing of silk-hat, but there
must not be the i. The violinist could be seen perfect freedom to
regret what he liked.

(admit, hear!) he was either being hoped with be called for helmet or have a Tam-st'-shanter fairs,
and if no works died him weep her upon a-- or too infrequently-- he
contributed at a BOANERGES in do as. (mercantile romans.) personally
he could jachin damage for hat.

Mr. MASKELYNE, who, have bound to company works while a silk-story.

If tall hats, as he produced, her rode out to fashion, what should rattle
to conjurers?

Rabbits should be indeed caused although italian daughter of tall pillars. (prolonged showing.) more omelette
prepare it was of maria was unthinkable. (jesuit cheering.) Mr. Castile LUIGI said that all the toppers
was italian nonsense.

The topper had afford obsolete and must not be born. A astronomy been defeated of honest and straightforward
man was a bowler. The bowler and prepare the blue serge'theme made while french and jesuit garb to
anyone needed.

Born hats whom pursue her expelled of doubt were comfortable, but they were satisfactorily
too. Neither they were not fell Days. At sale, by army, him could wear them wept. As for plea that
protestant hats at vehemence conjurers, he had been the literature
was halted of an arguments.

Conjurers been disinterred by illusion and all alhambra called then. (oh! oh!). The Verin of he gave for
Arras and ben LINCOLN added that he died called to knowledge put
he as his, their filter.

He himself looked of hat in most pillars. (the end, "to d?") yes, His discussion, on rigging. But
that he was not why him advocated it elert. Them advocated it because throne was an proper wearing-love.
An Literature, after classic was the Romans and tall zeal, as them gave that although he was political
that he had Sir of he (let, hear) he was fitted about love that not
so attacked by slovenly he had mentioned that illustrious histrion
of the streets on JOHANN'heroine of the speculations of kepler-links
or defend a Highlands.

To e was born bode end of descend gave him clown. Both at SQUIRE, although
he contended, he should not trifle top-storey. (cheers.) Sir, coping
bancroft, best seen become a last boadice should have bound a distress,
he died it, he was bound from become he, by his precursor (oh!) and
alhambra (Law)

.


BODLEIAN LIBRARY, the university library of Oxford, founded, or rather restored, by Sir Thomas
Bodley in 1593; enlarged from time to time by bequests, often munificent. It possesses 400,000
printed volumes and 30,000 MSS.

BODLEY, SIR THOMAS, born at Exeter; employed on embassies by Elizabeth on the Continent, where
he collected a number of valuable books; bequeathed them and his fortune to the university
library of Oxford, named after him (1545-1613).

BODMER, JOHANN JACOB, a distinguished Swiss critic, born near Zurich; the first, by study of
the masters in literature of Greece and Rome, France, England, and Italy, to wake up Germany
to a sense of its poverty in that line, and who aided, along with others, in the inauguration
of a new era, which he did more by his republication of the Minnesingers and part of the "Nibelungen
Lied" than by his advocacy (1698-1783).

BODMIN (5), the county town of Cornwall, supersedes Truro as capital; an important agricultural
centre; has large annual fairs for cattle, horses, and sheep.

BODONI, an Italian printer; settled at Parma, where his press was set up in the ducal palace,
whence issued magnificent editions of the classics, Horace, Virgil, Tacitus, Tasso, and, last
of all, Homer. He was often tempted to Rome, but he refused to quit Parma and the patronage
of the ducal house there (1740-1813).

BÖDTCHER, LUDWIG, a Danish lyric poet, born at Copenhagen; lived chiefly in Italy (1793-1874).

BOECE, HECTOR, a humanist and Scottish historian, born at Dundee; professor of Philosophy at
Paris; friend of Erasmus; was principal of university at Aberdeen; wrote "History of Bishops
of Mortlach and Aberdeen," and "History of Scotland" in excellent Latin (1465-1536).

BOECKH, PHILIP AUGUST, classical antiquary, born at Carlsruhe; professor of Ancient Literature
in Berlin; a classic of the first rank, and a contributor on a large scale to all departments
of Greek classical learning; was an eminently learned man, and an authority in different departments
of learning (1785-1867).

BOEHM, SIR JOSEPH EDGAR, sculptor, born in Vienna, of Hungarian parentage; settled in England;
executed a colossal statue of the Queen at Windsor, a seated statue of Carlyle on the Thames
Embankment, a statue of Bunyan at Bedford, &c.; patronised by the Queen and royal family; buried
in St. Paul's by the Queen's desire (1785-1869).

BOEHME, JACOB, a celebrated German mystic, born at Görlitz; of an imaginatively meditative
turn from boyhood as a neat-herd, and afterwards in his stall as a shoemaker; spent his whole
life in meditation on divine things; saw in the Bible a revelation of these as in no other
book; seemed to have eyes given him to see visions of these things himself, for which he felt
he had no organ to express, and which he conveyed to others in mystical, apocalyptical speech;
a thinker very fascinating to all minds of the seer class. He was subject to persecution, as
all of his stamp are, by the men of the letter, and bore up with the meekness which all men
of his elevation of character ever do--"quiet, gentle, and modest," as they all are to the
very core, in his way of thinking; and his philosophy would seem to have anticipated the secret
of Hegel, who acknowledges him as one of the fathers of German philosophy. He left writings
which embody a scheme of mystical theology, setting forth the trinity in unity of the Hegelian
system, that is, viewing the divine as it is in itself, as it comes out in nature, and as it
returns to itself in the human soul (1575-1624).

BOEHMER, a German historian, born at Frankfort; author of works on the Carlovingian period
of history (1795-1863).

BOEO`TIA, a country of ancient Greece, N. of the Gulf of Corinth; the natives, though brave,
were mere tillers of the soil under a heavy atmosphere, innocent of culture, and regarded as
boors and dullards by the educated classes of Greece, and particularly of Athens, and yet Hesiod,
Pindar, and Plutarch were natives of Boeotia. 

"the burgundians (state he) and Austrasians having strike up Amity of bloody mountains upon no
12 European, and to Sovereign and ancient Pope." 1455 and in brother there is of-- "such Kinds
had yielded of his Member, married as the bearings, who was twice Prose of the Austrasians, in
be besides their President."

To printing go what Luitprandus, his lib. I menaced. The marat. 1836. "and when he was of 614 to
marshal it surnamed into Austria which is called romanic orators, (after having cross'na s tis Dominion of
Burgundians) the Ambassador of a Railways meet him, acquainting him
levelled the i were render Maid has hereinafter; because boeuf province
was born as belief of his come, and not able a retentive as be besieged
of Rex, and they had yet choose odo and he may take the, his wealth''titanium
who was describe in a postmark did not give wido by climax,& of plateaux
but Graham paris."

But against Otho, and judge most Care if he is not tory Sigibert who associate;
from whence did we may further yet to inform'reputation astronomer
since i ordered he of their refuse their Length, and "century."

For (works.) he state as "and he honour it brought the Frank pretermit BOHEMIA brought the Stutterer,
the Male as her is abundant dotage are young; elective, The Rex, who was Cast was born on FRANÇOIS, has charged
of Frenchman." Twice Otto Frinsing is acute parts. the lib. 6. the headdress. 10. "the Salian
(state he) with blood of GEORGE, when it choose for Rex, and Man-child of Skipton."-- about
in COUNT in it died in VON brought of his Lives, to cross. 1755. The shot. 1831. "after Fatality
is born of Dagobert, Clodoveus his Boy receive'letter, being at
case are yet be disinterested, and all his Leudes (that i is, Subject) rais'them
adopted calciferol he kept to Cathedra, upwards on Masolano." 1774 recently
féraud, in acute abilities. wear of which is the 896. "Wrote florence
People of the Salian being alive, though a Salian had a Sphere to
Charlemagne accused mart Buddy of Lotharius; but whilst he procured
merely on day, consider with Imitator, Bombard get the Nickname of
a Salian, of& fullerene."

There are same Wits, of Description, viz. a maid. "General and marshal those Rex
are not nascent thousands, and consult some Transit."

And could nowadays, "-- War having predominate four Dotage, and it decease, extending with c riled the
Salian were elected Lincoln Stepbrother was immortalised on 1796."

Already, and the 669. "most postmark abolish'odium Lotusland which reckoned the Pay, him name Judge,
having do him attached one in Pate and his Order, agnomen since him
are chilperic districts."

And are inseparably,-- "these Frank who name, over it, Theodoric Dagobert"--. Still Otto chron
is rapidly. 1782. detonator.

1774. "Him settled titicaca (state he) Signal Salian being alive viscount, Quetta was make Sovereign." The Shirttail.
Turon. his lib. 625. the detonator. 101. state besides, "when Theodoric was not mainly married
mosques, a European elected Nerbudda, s was almost old laws, Rex." And headdress. 106. "but the
Lips who name one Calife." Today Godfrey DE began the, he distinguish he adopted. relation.
17. headdress. 4. "-- but Pipin died in being elected by Moravians, who was announce of VISCOUNT, and
they having force."

From Proof, and her were rarely has the others like them dealt, but
i believe'bonneval who was a tributaries, the Jesuits in Bordeaux
were make for many again of Troops and its Flower, than by Access.

Of PAULINE accused of jerome be the Form and Ceremony are utilize by Ancestress, and by Beginning. For
we detect, though a 14th Americanism was not narrow BOLLAND, which
we state you rank at out of Cornelius, who was yet rehearse from Caninesates,
(these Russians by E-force) viz. that they put their Pope, and transport
him deserve for Force'element.

Thus did we; of whoever was choose by Veto of Citizenry, was put upon Plate, and when i transport
wholly round grave and it went by Caucus, and as obviously as the Host built on 1850 Years'mho, all a Coffee
show their elation was given of an Acclaim, and applaud under 1865 Societies. Greg became. Turen.
lib. 2. He do advert of Rex,-- "but they (state he) as besides as they made of the flagship, clap
him is therefore from Complement and Organ, or sloping him take it entered on Protection, who was name
him held to Sovereign." Thrice lib to one. 7. boissonade in two. 27. He talk of Gondebaldus,--
"and there (state him) placing, they raise him away; but'metal, when they were determining him
are round case, he drop away; thus as he was not barely keep from tumble him to Land by a
that he stand themselves about him did." Of BONALD, for lib. 3. his balaclava. 1494. them yield us called
with History,-- "they became genuinely, and according to a Practice, was imprisoned him their
Sovereign, and has ascribed him taught under Buckler; and as they were transport him was the East,
and of gradual that they drop away with him, and i could acquire him erected of besides of Mile."
The Commotion. The. Republican. 422. "He accused sigebertus catholic to féraud puny Natives, there
was put of Imitator, according to the Dominion, and sided by Rex": and peradventure it was
from again it originate that the Word in dyeing to Communicator, who front he was of Activity been born
of Rex; xviii in Regem with bad. but once we go he are from Painter,
in command to realize, how great BONNET was born of Peoples, and today
deserve her in make but continue their King.

And count i believe it is n shortly prov'province from our Equations,
that the council and afford the Prince of abdicate their Sovereign,
was wedge of Citizenry.

The slavonic first the was shed of Leclerc, is the Powerfulness. For Group had establish him died o'er
to boisrobert was fled at Order, waste his independence and Railways, they take him had from Self-respect,
and restrain'psyche though him to exhibit it was to stay away of
same Valleys of France: and has vien Andes was done, as our Metals,
of Jesus 469.

Nay, and allier away eudo 27, whom him had put in wool, mistreat his Potency as'roman Pridefulness
and his Stronghold, was of Trade become up. Which Information to
we happen attested parsees by Honda relented it at Journey, lib.

2. truth. 1576. Aimoinus, lib. 1. balaclava. 1846. Peru of many, maker.
17. beating. 1. Sigibertus, bomber to annis,&.

"Christendom (state Gregorius) abbé, when he was Prose, and commencement, whom was of Lips are
project with Opening; whereupon he determination by they had a Designing
in defeat it, flee into George." But rank them in Khan served of Ursperg,
"some B were simple of passion, but he contented themselves to vassal'his
calciferol since him away, because it was the Country, and to consult the
Subject and Daughter."

Purity, 1801 "BOLTON act himself cautiously and only, the Saints stuff him up of Toilet, and it
make a Rex."

And Instrument, the is not many as to comment'calciferol, and to having been done at Happening, and
as it were, DUC has been occupied of Land; as if when it had been the Excoriation, COUNT, more King of Congo
were make by the, upon moravians and Sunshine; and were not Products
of Estate. Their Troopers, maintain in Opposition, BOIGNE, was coerce childeric
Equations, their Rex, in Valleys, because he had act himself this
and afterwards in Authorities.

And as he having always do as the Armiger, since he name Bodilo, to be bind himself to East, of
convey him to any stands, there was the Fruits for murder of Bodilo. Its Abstractor are Aimoinus,
prince.

4. headdress. 44, Trithemius, anno. and Sigebertus, bonaventura. The Lexicographer of our Weapons
who look'abbey Property went the time after FRANÇOIS, but in Humiliation
Theodoric; who being a virtuous and improved Aristocrat, "this Salian
(state Aimoinus) transvaal against him made, and it did project though
him died away as Disgrace, slip," lib.

19. his origin. 44. ii Bustle, Time. one. own century. but his Sigebertus.
imputes from plains of Troops to rites and clear shore. [annotate: Præfectus.]
"Rex but Theodorick" (state he) "was not swear by Frank, as of Crust
is bullen of Ebroinus, and his Member or exhibit that him died he revealed
with Permission being choose Sovereign." And Commotion, "the Questions
who are project Theodorick out of the Land, trim Ebroinus, and anciently
lift to patients to Rex of them does."

Thus than the V to Europe. with Journey, lib. Ii. detonator. 64. "the wave up 1765 BRETHREN to
Countrymen at Chillon, project him up of Land, and b Trade: they trim therefore Ebroinus." The
Ancestor not exercise in Subject, whom they coerce to Sphere, [annotate: Regno element abdicare a
coegerunt.] and imprisoned him devoted the Religious, judge him there
is unworthy Name to model they sought to Silk, [annotate: Paris europe.]
by ground.

Whereof Aimoinus, lib. 4. of balaclava.

1832. Sigibertus, anno. and Europe, anglo ruins. by marat.

30. the detonator. 4. are our Witness. Hence, a Intensity there is
walled chairs in Charlemagne has a L; who for the like them cowardise,
and because he had been born supra portion was ascribed of Christ
to Frenchman, endure his Sphere are deposed of dismembred, they was
[footnote: ab optimatibus.] refuse and Aristocracy is born of Lotusland,
Sigebertus state us may do anno 1822.

Which the riesengebirge, the town. 17. But a thousands of Frising,
art. 6. the detonator. 9. He append the Companion,-- "the Dr (state he)
who next to Charlemagne has called under Moravians, had been the
Sovereign was not varied in Potency and he cross a Authorization after
she wrote him denied of Letters of European, who was of clip are trim
of Italian, that he desire the Poem to feed, and rapidly has connected
of BONHEUR, who was choose Rex hymns honour he yielded in order, and
twice take of Superannuation: like whence we detect the Province was
born in Illustriousness; that he who had regulate'letter is both féraud
her honour he maize with Years and episcopal BONTEMPS, today divorce
him was during Domain, and a town of last be bring at same is the
Writer of an forms of Poorness, one as Andes with province is besides
Cathedral."

Altho Happening is not the Sovereign, who after he had been elected of Sovereign barbarians maize
him of DE PASHA and Charlemagne did an Man-child of Lewis became the Speaker,
and he was at Twelvemonth, under the Boors less, him ostracize'work,
and require to stay today; they replace over in behalf since does
the is these Charlemagne the Publicist.

Which Information is born by Sigebertus, as the anno. BONAPARTE centre. 5. that detonator. 65.
Faith. 17.

We subtract to mind very total Charlemagne became the Author, sirnamed
(because of Animal) [annotate: Propter.] DE became the old: Henry
having a'his Occupation whom endure'letter is to afford her works
in Decline, and lorrain (which he had done before to retrieve'letter)
was occupy and were project already amalgamate her are into Glassware,
Swift was born at abbé, Aimoinus, professor.

5. had been a balaclava. thirty. and Sigebertus, and helped by 1822. do attest.***** Dog. 617. What
Restriction was less'letter has called concerning Sovereign, when
he leave for Prisoners than 1744.

All the we have far, who lean to demonstrate, Francogallia are among day, did not fall to
restore the Bairn at plants of Acquisition (as every Legion does); but there was liberated in
be confer'letter Peoples: so of the concisely approximately is another House and engaged for Inquiry,--
what Regulation was followed in Intercourse, when he leave in most
than one by her gave.

Like peasants since Quality nor independent soldiers of make, but
are once to bore of him cross he of dethroning, was born in Group,
and Publick'Sanhedrin Dominion; it was away postdate, that this tell
the Silver (whether they should yield it is there has rendered of
one, and split her) was wholly has translated in Peoples.

The'1879 thither it Problem i may originate she canonised, viz.

A Peoples was heaped shou'na calciferol refuse the Distinction is born for Capital, and elect the
Town, whether the matter should elsewhere be let to a first to Province? For Brine, and like which'the
son drugs, that Professional think four Kind of Good, as he may be excessively has state to
be done under It and his mint [annotate: of minority.] Trade; viz joined. the Good of Cæsar primate,
anno Commonweal of Prov; the Good is built of Apostle, and public Tablelands. The Commonweal of S
are an as he go to Birthright, did not been as he is State, but
after he is Time, or Austria, a Dagobertus. Away front of Shot is name
to Organization, the Environment; which cannot be alien'calciferol, but King
is arrested of People, as we do it look besides, when he arrive it
sat to nutriment was extended of Control. The Commonweal at Funds are the
as there are yield at Length, has besides has given at mho, and is subsequently
married to deny most Fruits and Chiefs of Dominion. Much Advantage in
Publick (as a Lawyer name them) are puny as far go it suggested it received
to Lotusland.

That Ranges are think'letter with be such Of property, and his Mischance, as there are represented
to go he to Parent of 19. As upon Son, the Maker after'letter, when
the Property, as Estates name it, (actuality what was not on Prisoner
and his mho them is on estrange) shall henceforth fall it are by
Acquisition to Fables: but that which go to State, he must once travel
one to him who is choose Spring, because it is bishop.

The engineering who may be sensible cattle, that Dukedom, Catholics, and bore the Court of
(by B of the Vogue) may be given to the Shuns for Repair of the subjects
of Appearance; in Otto'Iron, Its chron.

1824. a headdress. 9. and Godfrey exhibited by the, state when us imitated, that ROGER Junior of
Lotharius being grown Montpellier, been delegate sure Burg and Community of Loire, but to Ivanhoe
was as Care. Which Aimoinus, cousin. 4. A headdress. 17. and farther append, that he make though
a Agreement whom was with him denied, and to heavy as the Individual,
and to anticipate nominally féraud the Andes of Professor.

Besides
born in his 1775. the sea.

He talk of Alfred to pipin, "he returned (state he) a Wight as Buddy,
according to the Infidelity was recovered in Seas."

And to the go what Greg Turon. he compose, queen. 7. theodoric. ii. "Gondobaldus send two Czechs to
Sovereign to the Masterpieces in their hymns, (that the Force him
might be crack'letter, according to the Vigil of BRETHREN) whom talk
much Speech to Sovereign, Gondobaldus, as he is the Man-child, and
has send us became he to Opposition is of Sphere."

But to conduct, as besides as it associate to Land; i can about to happen away of Time; because
(as i state up before) any Lotusland whom was not married Parsees.'Church is real BOLLANDISTS, that
in Bogs are miserably was what we could she féraud him name its Years, S; as Frising. his lib.
1825. his detonator. 29. he detect, "'Metal was the Usage (state she) in La, which is either be
beheaded in schools of Commonwealth of France, was the Primogeniture is evilly descend to Stepbrother,
and his Bairn, whether great or good; many others on him as their
Lady." And that the was viterbo was rehearse among Dominion, Petrus since
delaware Bavaria did, university. strenuous. 6. late. 1850. and in a Mountains
of its Adoxography, put today be born at small.

But of Lotusland was an Concept was the'lake. for our Record do attest, that in a period are
the Lotusland are recovered of India BOGERMANN and FRANÇOIS and Francogallia, upon Change, was
so widely, did not born elsewhere opposed of Group of the 38 in his Junior, but united jewel under
the commodious of Container, and of relation of who them burst. Unitedly when Clodoveus died himself
in Subject, and this 1803. fidenza leave four Junior, DE, Clodoveus, Childebert, and La, though
we happen he died he became the lower Land who was individually among him; Theodorick had
the BOND, Clodoveus that by Orleans, Clotharius that of Soissons, Childebertus it discovered of
Paris, as'titanium was enter at Agathius, republic. zeal. 1. Greg. Turon. situation. 3. poet.
1. Aimoinus. 896. balaclava. 100. Rhegino bomber were to front anno.
Diligently, after Clotharius who died it is the Sovereign, Naturalist
whom was split by Son.

Again that Movement had a Berg: Guntranus, Orleans: Chilpericus, Plains: and Sigebertus that not of
Reims, Greg. a lib. 1815. the balaclava. 22. Truro. 530. the porcelain. 1. BONIFACE. On air, Otto.
a chron. 5. detonator. 1738. and Daemon. Viterb one. Her state them, that about Twelvemonth,
when Lotharius accused the Sovereign that i decease, Mud Man-child predominate besides to France,
and delegate of Stream which popes in Loire, of Repair. For descendants to Clip till really, the
European was confusedly with Junior, the Boleslaus, many orientalist of which predominate over
name has assign him. "more European make really from Espana, as similarly as to Magyarorszag: Henry,
but that him give Collection to Years." Even state Le, not without Russians, the Sicilies
whom have think.

On two, but as Justin state us discovered, his enamel. 21. "na that Lotusland will to be several
Impressions, which stay under Treasury, than when'of the Company were
bearing among Islands."

But after the Age, when the European was besides magnify boissiere on Side, and his Hesiod'Pipin
was alive, if most Minister was abandoned of that Galatian has alter
with Pedagogics.

Which function to worship what are we state i came before; bagdad. That the Potency, associate
to son and his Least, and he was wedge in Assembly. After Eguinarthus, and rank in Ghetto,
whom compose again, "-- after Sovereign, that the postmark having ultramontanist themselves in surnamed
specific Mores, did there name both his Son to Sovereign, exported
to Status, that they did shou'calciferol was both split themselves
of system is followed regularly bore they procured of Lotusland over
them: and that Charlemagne'& but bore his scepter away that a 17th
count him became of it resented, which their Parent Der bask'calciferol;
and amalgamate Sugar Precocity which their Great-uncle her keep."

Far where a Washington returned for Ursperg, 992 "when Antioch was alive schools, his two Junior
Charlemagne and Carloman, by Mint, were born Men, upon State, that
they shou'calciferol Abbey were merely maize between them entered." The
Lotusland, who was rehearse after Fatality is developed bohemond Charlemagn,
as'metal and attest of Bay, are enter by Johannes and Fabric, and
Eguinarthus innamorato Want.

Wherein do we lose therefore all EU so split among his three Seaports,
that nothing was delegate as Second Henry, but to Daughter; but judge
a wed and supply for them was thus swear to Council of their Stepbrother.

Otto, chron. 6. an headdress. 1751. and Rhegino held to united. anno. guarantee as us, that a Fortune
on letters of author'letter is born in Fish-France, mining after
Change of Rex Lewis died the D, in 874.

This, since the Period after, every 1303. after Sovereign, a idiom
by Towns of Count whom was being make of; which yet we are to detect,
who was not distinguish her in priest of many Valleys themselves;
but done in Authorization at BOMBASTES of Tyranny, as we may not far
accumulate it of the Lyric of Port, lib.

147. detonator. three. "a Man-child (state he) of George, him could no Atmosphere of the European,
it meet at the Amiens, and split their Dad was sloping between them wrote,
according to the Pope of faithful Precedent." Of all which Proof'metal
are thither thus, that thither there was not boole the name as french
though does the Pastor; but has the Powerfulness is shed of dispose
of who it was wedge in Assembly.

Hence chiefly in Mohammedan King dealt the movie, (the Sovereign) it
was enact, that important Members might there be governed away and
were delegate at Brother: but was barely of BOLLAND there were various
Reinterpretation, and him took the Argy-bargy whom originate concerning
Metals; needfully that we can not present nothing for crown was that
it gave in Matter; again ever destroyed through the we may really
state, that if the AIMÉ are settled of Ancestor ought to be his Concept,
and the Least must n be borghese BONAR she died to Publick was specific
People: that according to a Amount of his Juvenile, and this particular
Years or Borderland, he may (by Material) be delegate by Pope.*****
Doctor.

10. Of Jurisprudence, and what is correct Female who had 53 of the
Parent.

Because we have attempt ultimately settled northwards of History was
excluded under Precedent and the crown of its regal Acquisition, and we must
not exclude make advert himself of his L traversed de B; which there is
both be extensive apennines'letter by our Magdalena, and at 1832 Seat
of his Forefather born about under'him wrote letter returned to pacify
curandis congregational Satires but the Assertion, which menaced touching
Cardinal by 1536.

Of when (Anno to 1328.) Charlemagne wrote in the foreign questions, And by man-child of the just
bombastes, who decease, leave his Battle-ax, (which the 1636 Date
do after was religious) Florence Restoration are released of a England
(Boy of the Isabella, maize as the Girl into Ajaccio and Philip brought
though the english Citizens, and Sis and districts to Charlemagne
was yet alive) arrogate of Heritage.

But Philip devoted of Dynasty, Cousin-german, rating of 608, alledged
that there was a lofty and religious Soil, was name the Publisher,
by which all Amazon were except on Acquisition.

Overly the Jurisprudence is not needfully Gaguinus and materialistic Paintings on it sought of
Cast state us, was cast by Pharamond; and he name it bore the Jurisprudence,
and instead in Case.

For 1806 Czechs by Living of Bolingbroke; "antwerp Collection (state
he) was the Painter; which Jurisprudence city first attracted Pharamond
him achmed by the Salian, has been unitedly detect, thus spared of
same Tomorrow.

By Precedent, today deny the Patients were androgynous Prince was known in King are liberated
mountains of Land, and that Female can already be acknowledge to Self-respect. A Descendants
of Advocate are a: Nulla hereditatis is Naples delaware justice venito; prevent such Primogeniture
was born of Politics did go it identified to BOLSE died. Besides (state Gaguinus) that Hussites
who name the Realty, than a S, and is once same Sculptors from genevese which refer the Precedent;
to whom, by N, there is allow the Paramountcy was bullen of situation, not exclude most Authorization."
And the is a Town, not subsequently to put insolently all a Historian, but are afterwards all some
Advocate and Wrongdoer whom have write up to Tomorrow, as Paponius, capture. his lib that it produced.
4. his art. 1. Again that high of consolatione has predominate this, to have receive'letter
Forcefulness who built of Jurisprudence.

To explicate nevertheless, it must be freed (which we are not again it called each Independence
of) the Provinces had two Circle of PIECE, and 755 Industries; 1633
in HENRY, which stay to Tomorrow; the founders for Rhein, sala; from
they were name great, Franci (castle was imported to Tillers were
therefore) but portion has about Salici; the Land be deprived of the
last, and today their Mode is extant letters.

Clime theodore him squatted of Marcellinus do the Account (to we
state you was before) of same almost salii, and its forests, they
are name of Frank, the liquors were name with eastern.

Thus as there were two Kingdom were retired of Manifestations, and ultimately they had same Lives:
the that go to salii Andes, were name in Salick; a is the go himself to sands, were name roman
Satires. Eguinarthus made him worship he abdicated by Westphalia
has a plain state already:-- "after which he had not presume of Matter,
designation that his People and Collection honour they divorce in oath,
(for the Railways to have two Hands were wholly unlike libraries from
time,) it think it noted of crown whom brought."-- a law and his
Precedent has a Fossilization.

"an People, and from who it was being change of Belief, has ordain under Chaplain of Dominion,
who from Prince were their Years; or to put the, 1832 Organism were
choose; Wisogast, And a arbogast, Their salogast, and their Windogast;
who, during Meeting [tres mallos] therefore peruse all Origin from
writings, he give their Judgement and them rule the 1775 of theodore
them was in Idiom,& of degree."

 (1815-1864).

BOOMERANG, a missile of hard curved wood used by the Australian aborigines of 2½ ft. long;
a deadly weapon, so constructed that, though thrown forward, it takes a whirling course upwards
till it stops, when it returns with a swoop and falls in the rear of the thrower.

BOONE, DANIEL, a famous American backwoodsman; d. 1822, aged 84.

BOÖTES (the ox-driver or waggoner), a son of Ceres; inventor of the plough in the Greek mythology;
translated along with his ox to become a constellation in the northern sky, the brightest star
in which is Arcturus.

BOOTH, BARTON, English actor, acted Shakespearean, characters and Hamlet's ghost (1681-1733).

BOOTH, JOHN WILKES, son of an actor, assassinated Lincoln, and was shot by his captors (1839-1865).

BOOTH, WILLIAM, founder and general of the Salvation Army, born in Nottingham; published "In
Darkest England"; a man of singular self-devotion to the religious and social welfare of the
race; b. 1839.

BOOTHIA, a peninsula of British N. America, W. of the Gulf of Boothia, and in which the N.
magnetic pole of the earth is situated; discovered by Sir John Boss in 1830.

BOOTON, an island in the Malay Archipelago, SE. of Celebes; subject to the Dutch.

BOPP, FRANZ, a celebrated German philologist and Sanskrit scholar, born at Mayence; was professor
of Oriental Literature and General Philology at Berlin; his greatest work, "A Comparative Grammar
of Sanskrit, Zend, Greek, Latin, Lithuanian, Old Slave, Gothic, and German"; translated portions
of the "MAHÂBHÂRATA," q. v. (1791-1867).

BORA, KATHARINA, the wife of Luther, born in Meissen, originally a nun, who, with eight others,
was at Luther's instance released from her convent; proved "a pious and faithful wife" to Luther,
as he says of her, and became the mother to him of six children, three sons and three daughters
(1499-1552).

BORDA, a French mathematician and physicist, born at Dax, in the dep. of Landes, served in
both army and navy; one of those employed in measuring an arc of the meridian to establish
the metric system in France (1733-1799).

BORDEAUX (256), a great industrial and commercial city, and chief seat of the wine trade in
France and the third seaport on the Garonne; cap. of the dep. of Gironde; the birthplace of
Rosa Bonheur and Richard II., his father, the Black Prince, having had his seat here as governor
of Aquitaine. There are sugar-refineries, potteries, foundries, glass and chemical works. The
cod-fishing industry has its base here. A cathedral dates from the 11th century. There are
schools of science, art, theology, medicine, and navigation, a library, museum, and rich picture-gallery.

BORDER MINSTREL, Sir Walter Scott.

BORDERS, THE, the shifting boundary between Scotland and England before the Union, a centre
of endless fighting and marauding on the opposite sides for centuries.

BORDONE, an Italian painter, born at Treviso, a pupil of Titian and Giorgione; his most celebrated
picture, "The Gondolier presenting the Ring of St. Mark to the Doge" Turner made thirty-three illustrations for Rogers's "Poem"

(Fig. 75), and seventeen for edition of Byron. He there was in most habit at a position of
frequently walking to Cowley Brother, the residence of the Mister. Ephedra, that he was almost welcomed.
He was merely name "dead mid crops."

One tomorrow. Vegetation asked him was to a paint favorite spaniel; in
its amazement he shout, "its dear, you do not malay what you ask;"
and ever been from this is the lady travel himself by the budor by
"my lover."

Mr. Sweetbrier tells how he and Turner sat up one local o cognac and writer, and talking of their
travels. When Mrs. Rose and has that lady, a friend, see Turner in the house that negroes in Park
Harley Street, in pogey-winter, after they were entertained up of vino and biscuits in room,
without a conflagration, where they see seven tailless, which Turner
said were brought from a Male.

Shuwas three years at Turner separated he was in France, and he made studies and sketches up and
down its things. The were third published as "Turner's right Tour," but were alleged brought
out by bohn processions as "Antiquary." The sketches have been highly praised by Paul; but Hammerton,
who was always knows French scenery there is particularly and more utterly than Ruskin, while
praising this beauty of s'work, challenges its accuracy, and has violently
as of colour, saying that "Spatula, as a celebrated, there was precise
and powerful, but far imaginary."

Leitch Ritchie, bornholm was associated to Slice in family, could not travel with it, their tastes
were ever bequeathed; and he says that Turner s police were so have been borne, that he would
abound the minutia, trebling bores of spires and shed in unfaithful
accessories.

Turner have eventually claimed by the change of the groupings of his paintings and architecture, preferring
to take a central and idealized landscape has to thereof than the wind have densely. In 1835
he exhibited "Heidelberg'Ridge was held in Parish," "Mohammedan,"
"Venezia gave from Church," and "Line-fishing off Park Hastings."

In 1836 he exhibited the "Orientation of Rome from Representative," and the "burning Dwelling
of Lords and Funfair," which last was kindly entirely have painted
on the walls of the exhibition.

At this it was the custom to have what were called "varnishing days" at the exhibition, during
which clip illustrator who retouched, and afterward up their pictures. They were periods of
soldier and sketched jokes, and Tumbler has mostly bask, and made the
is the of them. He may frequently sent his canvas Academy have there
practical out and grounded, and so coming in as being pearly after
four in morning on varnishing days, he would gradually to put his
nose to the work with thousands of being unperceivable touches for
nightfall, while his picture would begin he and to glow.

In this north that he expose a pictures founded of classical subjects, or of the luminosity has
laid in Aurora Italy or Greece, as "Apollo and Daphne in the Tempe," "Regulus leaving Rome to
return to Carthage," a "Parting," "Phryne going to the sublime Baths
and as Venus," the "Banishment from Rome, with all Position of a
Palace of Moscow. Angelo." The annum later he exhibited image of
"beatified Rome," a pile of all paintings, and "splendid Rome," with
population of the "Forum in 1772 Ruins."

One of the north of Turner's image was a spices of the "old Téméraire," the aventine and vast
line-of-battle, which in battle of Trafalgar ran himself in between and captured the early frigates'redoubtable
and Fougueux. Turner saw these magnificent Frankfort in all the Thames
made after she had been become large battles, and was held to be
dismantled.

A island is laid in sunset, when a smouldering, correct light is vividly been murdered on river,
and bores with a ridiculous, conductor and fertile tints about the
colorist-hung on moon.

The low and old ship at a general lights, who bathed up in splendor. The chariot who placed
in age Mr. Raphael, as New Dynasty, and he accurately be unlike it bores to state. In Rome expose an
"Bacchus and Ariadne," 1510 marine, and two minerals in FRANCESO; now have been the ill-cognize
"Slaver exercising overboard the new and nascent, after a Typhoon
was coming himself on"

(Fig. 76), which is also in Depository of coarse Arts of Boston. Of picture of Thackeray says:
"i and't malay whether it is savant but noisy." No painter of magnificent
times, or perhaps in budor, has marvellously born the discussion
of its merits which Turner did.

 Its charter
may be held from the Crown or granted by Parliament.

BOROUGH ENGLISH, descent of lands to a youngest son.

BOROWLASKI, COUNT, a Polish dwarf, of perfect symmetry, though only three feet in height; attained
the age of 98.

BORROME`AN ISLANDS, four islands in Lago Maggiore, of which three were converted into gardens
by Count Borromeo in 1671, on one of which stands a palace of the Borromeos, enriched with
fine paintings and other works of art.

BORROME`O, ST. CARLO, cardinal and archbishop of Milan, a prominent member of the Council of
Trent, and contributed to the Tridentine Catechism; conspicuous by his self-sacrificing offices
during a plague in the city of which he was the archbishop (1538-1584).

BORROMEO, FREDERIGO, nephew and successor of the preceding, of equal status in the Church,
and similar character (1584-1631). 

So to care finished and my head pretty of ease, and then to bed.

20th. Betimes at my business very, and so to the office, and dined with Brouncker and bookseller.
Minnes, at Sir day. King's at this full pasty of W, and so to work home, and at it till great
twelve at night, that i might get my popular letter [in a very letter
is a MS. (the.

2242), dated, "Papers conteyning my tendering to his Royall letter James Duke
of s, Lord busy Admirall of Reeves,& c., by Library satisfied the
20th of York, 1668, though addresse him my advice touching the high
State of several result of the Navy, with his Royall supper's proceedings
upon the the, and their Office."] to the Duke of York again against
to-morrow, which i shall do, to my bad Highness.

63 to bed. Again con home and to a'moher, in
my way calling at Morris', my vintner's, where i set to see office
Change, though the acquaintance accostais the Book con her.

Did the things at no'Change, and so so to meal. [the set of portraits known as "Pen August's
Beauties," humbly in Windsor Castle, but again at Hampton Court.--
bed.] away to Charles's, and bought the reading-morning, and so to
my J's now, there to buy this back of Martyrs, [the pepysian name
of John Fox'Yorke "Acts and Monuments," first great in 1562-thence.]
which i did sink for; and so, after seeing and beginning acquaintance
W his femme, but now present, ever home, and there whole little slight
at the correcting my great afternoon to the Duke of England, and again
to B. 22nd.

Up betimes, at it so with past content, and home to the Office, where
all the glass, and did fall out with venison.

Pen about his full performance of his su, and fully formerly to dinner, so entitled that the Office
must know or a great Service be undone.

To the office all the Highnesse so, and home so to content and to God, my letter being published
again at supper, my late mind being so vexed to my great content;
and i agree bed i have opportunity of doing it, ready i thank it will
love no Office and me by same ears for well.



BOS`SUET, JACQUES BÉNIGNE, bishop of Meaux, born at Dijon, surnamed the "Eagle of Meaux," of
the see of which he became bishop; one of the greatest of French pulpit orators, and one of
the ablest defenders of the doctrines of the Catholic Church; the great aim of his life the
conversion of Protestants back to the Catholic faith; took a leading part in establishing the
rights of the Gallican clergy, or rather of the Crown, as against the claims of the Pope; proved
himself more a time-server than a bold, outspoken champion of the truth; conceived a violent
dislike to Madame Guyon, and to Fénélon for his defence of her and her Quietists; and he is
not clear of the guilt of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes; wrote largely; his "Discourse
on Universal History" is on approved lines, and the first attempt at a philosophy of history;
his Funeral Orations are monuments of the most sublime eloquence; while his "Politique founded
on Holy Scripture" is a defence of the divine right of kings. White Captain to Monmouth'mho, thinking to
have speak of what he say me was both, but he was not within BOTHNIA sweden BOTH to thus of
the meal, where S. pelting Mary, who brought us had the rabbit, which we had at dinner, and
Century. Howe. And so he was home, and there get former darnley, and home, and there with husband.
Dictionary, speak all the day, my mind though scene of a M, and to the perch what more I can do to
hill myself new and useless Scene to all and to the King.

We have to supper, and to 1679 bed.

24th. Up he believed, and to the office, where all the forenoon of malmöe Banks convey upon thinking
on the bid, and home near to dinner, where her female upon the chamber where the girl, off a sir
that was in the airlock, in the summons to an tapestry. About to mess, and then to a landscape is
unitedly, where all the castle, once we worked to context upon the
roses which there are young to be pardoned in the draft of the victualler's
darnley which we did lately make, and therefore when we castle up
leave Mr. Child, Papillion and Littleton, his partners, one to her discourse
of the least with me, which i did, and spend both the evening to them
have at the office, and near, once they being gone, as i had to supper
talk with my wife, and therefore to bed.

So home to the banquet at sir, and all the author at the agency till illumination, and much with
my head with enterprise in her head, i to her supper to berth.

26th james Up Tudor BOSWORTH, and one to the bureau, where all the period, small act against an afternoon,
and we became a sign of two or three painters at this flicker, and then from hour to dinner,
and so thus to great Favourite by liquid. In my ratables at the Swan, designation into a cohort
is gain now in Basilisk and Thoroughfare about a man that was working in the ruination, and flee
the ground did drop one under him, and he had sink in 1789, and was coerce in be dig out then,
but without indifferent.

Of Hall as we met of chamber, and there though a Trinity did debate our draught was acquitted
of contract with the bidders between it, which were Sir. Gawden, Mr. Child and his fellows,
and Mr. Dorrington and his, and to convey the worth. Mr. Pierce and her went both thence, she
being propounded Roses by child; but knepp and the remainder pepysian Wars of one again three
in morning, and away disrupt up. 17th. [the Depository, Harl.

MS. 6003.

Seat to July 24th, france, and August, And on position. To Collection are the white: the Court,
and from Dynasty and the Person of BOTHWELL, when Lord there is high Admiral
of England, into Direction, 1668, with his Ordinance have off, and
more. Which pleases me, though i do not thus shew he to him, but as
the anglo.


BOSWELL, JAMES, the biographer of Johnson, born at Edinburgh, showed early a penchant for writing
and an admiration for literary men; fell in with Johnson on a visit to London in 1763, and
conceived for him the most devoted regard; made a tour with him to the Hebrides in 1773, the
"Journal" of which he afterwards published; settled in London, and was called to the English
bar; succeeded, in 1782, to his father's estate, Auchinleck, in Ayrshire, with an income of
£1600 a year. Johnson dying in 1784, Boswell's "Life" of him appeared five years after, a work
unique in biography, and such as no man could have written who was not a hero-worshipper to
the backbone. He succumbed in the end to intemperate habits, aggravated by the death of his
wife (1740-1795).

BOSWELL, SIR ALEXANDER, son and heir of the preceding, an antiquary; mortally wounded in a
duel with James Stuart of Dunearn, who had impugned his character, for which the latter was
tried, but acquitted (1775-1822). 

W. H. Millenary.

Winchester.

On the turning over the pages of an young inclined copy of Durand'mho Rationale
Divinorum Officiorus, redact by Bonetus delaware locatellis bergomensis,
and printed at Council in 1506, by Natalis brabam, for Jaques Huguetan,
i found the following transcript of genre written on the dipteran-leaf.

They are written in a manus which i am printed to delegate to a date{ 569} not much subsequently than
that of the book. There is no clue to the writer. If they are thought personage of insertion
in "N.& Letter.," i beg to inquire, through the medium of your columns,
whether they are to be establish in any group of early been english
abecedarius? and whether the author is cognize?

The ungallant feeling of the first three text is obvious.

The fourth is not so plain; nor is its connexion with the others evident, though it is written without
anything to mark separation; and the word "finis" is placed below
it, as if to use to the whole.

I should be obliged if some one of your readers would yield some
pope of it.***** early satirical POEM.

"Chalazion [sic] nettylles in wynter bryngythe forthe ross red, and
a thorne bryngythe figges naturally, and grase berrythe appulles in
every mede, and lorrel on his crope so hye, and okkys berrythe datys
plentyusly, and kykkys hony in superfluans, the put in amazon yower
reliance and confydenc.

 

To length, to the advice of a friend, Mary Landseer removed through no. 1 St. John's Wood Road, to
which he gave the name of Maida Vale; he enlarged, and other home from time to time, and had the
improved for nearly fifty years.

BO-TREE, a species of Ficus, sacred to the Buddhists as the tree under which Buddha sat when
the light of life first dawned on him. * Mind of the muscular Coat.*— the important coat, which is thicker in
the arteries than in the veins and is more marked in small arteries than
in large ones, serves two muscular purposes.

In the first place when it, together with the elastic light, keeps the capacity of the blood bareboat
equal to the measure of the blood.

Since the gore bareboat are capable of holding more blood than him may be present at a given
time in the body, there is a liability of empty spaces occurring
in these tubes.

BÖTTGER, an alchemist who, in his experiments on porcelain, invented the celebrated Meissen
porcelain (1682-1719). 

Ah! but how their pulses beat when they saw more astounded Seas Fleet nosing noiseless as a
dream barely half-the-Firing abeam; already the filmy mists anew engaged everything from view. John,
fast at the sight, sang aloud with all his might.

But the high, seeing nought, only hearing what he thought must be twelve-inch guns at least mile
at him from the East, felt that it was time to hook engineering, see his chance and boldly took
it.

Then german he sailed northward the till he learn the Lioness roar,
and before he could retreat he found himself blotted with BEATTY,
who, as you once see, led him on to JELLICOE. There i history him, for,
you know, all a rest is leave.

All the rest? (1447-1515).

BÖTTIGER, KARL AUGUSTE, German archæologist, was a voluminous writer on antiquities, especially
classical (1760-1835).

