OUTDOOR SKETCHING

Four Talks Given before the Art Institute of Chicago

The Scammon Lectures, 1914

by

F. HOPKINSON SMITH

With Illustrations by the Author

New York Charles Scribner's Sons

Copyright, 1915, by Charles Scribner's Sons

Contents

                       Page

  I. Composition         3

 II. Mass               39

III. Water-Colors       75

 IV. Charcoal          119

Illustrations

Part of the Site of the Marshalsea Jail, London   Frontispiece

                                                      FACING
                                                       PAGE

Under the Willows, Cookham-on-Thames                    84

The George and Vulture Inn, London                     136

Diagram of Charcoal Technic                            142

COMPOSITION

My chief reason for confining these four talks to the outdoor sketch is because I have been
an outdoor painter since I was sixteen years of age; have never in my whole life painted what
is known as a studio picture evolved from memory or from my inner consciousness, or from any
one of my outdoor sketches. My pictures are begun and finished often at one sitting, never
more than three sittings; and a white umbrella and a three-legged stool are the sum of my studio
appointments.

Another reason is that, outside of this ability to paint rapidly out-of-doors, I know so little
of the many processes attendant upon the art of the painter that both my advice and my criticism
would be worthless to even the youngest of the painters to-day. Again, I work only in two mediums,
water-color and charcoal. Oil I have not touched for many years, and then only for a short
time when a student under Swain Gifford (and this, of course, many, many years ago), who taught
me the use and value of the opaque pigment, which helped me greatly in my own use of opaque
water-color in connection with transparent color and which was my sole reason for seeking the
help of his master hand.

A further venture is to kindle in your hearts a greater love for and appreciation of what a
superbly felt and exactly rendered outdoor sketch stands for--a greater respect for its vitality,
its life-spark; the way it breathes back at you, under a touch made unconsciously, because
you saw it, recorded it, and then forgot it--best of all because you let it alone; my fervent
wish being to transmit to you some of the enthusiasm that has kept me young all these years
of my life; something of the joy of the close intimacy I have held with nature--the intimacy
of two old friends who talk their secrets over each with the other; a joy unequalled by any
other in my life's experience.

There may be those who go a-fishing and enjoy it. The arranging and selecting of flies, the
jointing of rods, the prospective comfort in high water-boots, the creel with the leather strap,
every crease in it a reminder of some day without care or fret--all this may bring the flush
to the cheek and the eager kindling of the eye, and a certain sort of rest and happiness may
come with it; but--they have never gone a-sketching! Hauled up on the wet bank in the long
grass is your boat, with the frayed end of the painter tied around some willow that offers
a helping root. Within a stone's throw, under a great branching of gnarled trees, is a nook
where the curious sun, peeping at you through the interlaced leaves, will stencil Japanese
shadows on your white umbrella. Then the trap is unstrapped, the stool opened, the easel put
up, and you set your palette. The critical eye with which you look over your brush case and
the care with which you try each feather point upon your thumbnail are but an index of your
enjoyment.

Now you are ready. You loosen your cravat, hang your coat to some rustic peg in the creviced
bark of the tree behind, seize a bit of charcoal from your bag, sweep your eye around, and
dash in a few guiding strokes. Above is a changing sky filled with crisp white clouds; behind
you, the great trunks of the many branched willows; and away off, under the hot sun, the yellow-green
of the wasted pasture, dotted with patches of rock and weeds, and hemmed in by the low hills
that slope to the curving stream.

It is high noon! There is a stillness in the air that impresses you, broken only by the low
murmur of the brook behind and the ceaseless song of the grasshopper among the weeds in front. With
every birth of the king's first child, the Prince Balthasar Carlos, in 1629, the painter'Balthasar duties
began in tiny; and from a time on he was most assiduous in portraying
the family.

Prince
brook was represented in almost the imaginable position, first as that gallant child in frocks,
and later as a young boy in court dress, [3] military costume, or hunting-garb.
In his most attractive portraits he is a young earnest horseman,
seated with an easy grace, for if born to the saddle.

But you work on: an enthusiasm has taken possession of you; the paints mix too slowly; you
use your thumb, smearing and blending with a bit of rag--anything for the effect. One moment
you are glued to your seat, your eyes riveted on your canvas; the next, you are up and backing
away, taking it in as a whole, then pouncing down upon it quickly, belaboring it with your
brush. Soon the trees take shape; the sky forms become definite; the meadow lies flat and loses
itself in the fringe of willows.

When all of this begins to grow upon your once blank canvas, and some lucky pat matches the
exact tone of blue-gray haze or shimmer of leaf, or some accidental blending of color delights
you with its truth, a tingling goes down your backbone, and a rush surges through your veins
that stirs you as nothing else in your whole life will ever do. The reaction comes the next
day when, in the cold light of your studio, you see how far short you have come and how crude
and false is your best touch compared with the glory of the landscape in your mind and heart.
But the thrill that it gave you will linger forever!

Or come with me to Constantinople and let us study its palaces and mosques, its marvellous
stuffs, its romantic history, its religions--most profound and impressive--its commerce, industries,
and customs. Come to revel in color; to sit for hours, following with reverent pencil the details
of an architecture unrivalled on the globe; to watch the sun scale the hills of Scutari and
shatter its lances against the fairy minarets of Stamboul; to catch the swing and plash of
the rowers rounding their caiques by the bridge of Galata; to wander through bazaar and market,
dotting down splashes of robe, turban, and sash; to rest for hours in cool tiled mosques, which
in their very decay are sublime; to study a people whose rags are symphonies of color, and
whose traditions and records breathe the sweetest poems of modern times.

And then, when we have caught our breath, let us wander into any one of the patios along the
Golden Horn, and feast our eyes on columns of verd-antique, supporting arches light as rainbows,
framing the patio of the Pigeon Mosque, the loveliest of all the patios I know, and let us
run our eyes around that Moorish square. The sun blazes down on glistening marbles; gnarled
old cedars twist themselves upward against the sky; flocks of pigeons whirl and swoop and fall
in showers on cornice, roof, and dome; tall minarets like shafts of light shoot up into the
blue. Scattered over the uneven pavement, patched with strips and squares of shadows, lounge
groups of priests in bewildering robes of mauve, corn-yellow, white, and sea-green; while back
beneath the cool arches bunches of natives listlessly pursue their several avocations.

It is a sight that brings the blood with a rush to one's cheek. That swarthy Mussulman at his
little square table mending seals; that fellow next him selling herbs, sprawled out on the
marble floor, too lazy to crawl away from the slant of sunshine slipping through the ragged
awning; that young Turk in frayed and soiled embroidered jacket, holding up strings of beads
to the priests passing in and out--is not this the East, the land of our dreams? And the old
public scribe with the gray beard and white turban, writing letters, the motionless veiled
figures squatting around him--is he not Baba Mustapha? and the soft-eyed girl whispering into
his ear none other than Morgiana, fair as the meridian sun?

These are some of the joys of the painter whose north light is the sky, whose studio door is
never shut, and who often works surrounded by envious throngs, that treat him with such marked
reverence that they whisper one to another for fear of disturbing him.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now for a few practical hints born of these experiences; and in giving them to you, remember
that no man is more keenly conscious of his limitations than the speaker. My own system of
work, all of which will be explained to you in subsequent talks, one on water-color and the
other on charcoal, is, I am aware, peculiar, and has many drawbacks and many shortcomings.
I make bold to give these to you because of my fifty years' experience in outdoor sketching,
and because in so doing I may encourage some one among you to begin where I have left off and
do better. The requirements are thoughtful and well-studied selection before your brush touches
your canvas; a correct knowledge of composition; a definite grasp of the problem of light and
dark, or, in other words, mass; a free, sure, and untrammelled rapidity of execution; and,
last and by no means least, a realization of what I shall express in one short compact sentence,
that it takes two men to paint an outdoor picture: one to do the work and the other to kill
him when he has done enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before entering on the means and methods through which so early a death becomes permissible
I shall admit that the personal equation will largely assert itself, and that because of it
certain allowances must be made, or rather certain variations in both grasp and treatment will
necessarily follow.

While, of course, nature is always the same, never changing and never subservient to the whims
or perceptive powers of the individual, there are painters who will aver that they alone see
her correctly and that all the world that differs from them is wrong. One man from natural
defects may see all her greens or reds stronger or weaker than another in proportion to the
condition of his eye. Another may grasp only her varying degrees of gray. One man unduly exaggerates
the intensity of the dark and the opposing brilliancy of the lights. Another eye--for it is
largely a question of optics, of optics and temperament--sees only the more gentle and sometimes
the more subtle gradations of light and shade reducing even the blaze of the noonday sun to
half-tones. Still another, whether by the fault of over-magnifying power or long-sightedness,
detects an infinity of detail in nature, and is not satisfied until each particular blade of
grass stands on end like the quills of the traditional porcupine, while his brother brush strenuously
asserts that every detail is really only a question of mass, and should be treated as such,
and that for all practical purposes it is quite immaterial whether a tree can be distinguished
from a farm-house so long as it is fluffy enough to be indistinct.

