They turned in at the gate and passed under the shaded knoll where, enclosed in a low fence,
the Frome grave-stones slanted at crazy angles through the snow. Ethan looked at them curiously.
For years that quiet company had mocked his restlessness, his desire for change and freedom.
"We never got away--how should you?" seemed to be written on every headstone; and whenever
he went in or out of his gate he thought with a shiver: "I shall just go on living here till
I join them." But now all desire for change had vanished, and the sight of the little enclosure
gave him a warm sense of continuance and stability.

"I guess we'll never let you go, Matt," he whispered, as though even the dead, lovers once,
must conspire with him to keep her; and brushing by the graves, he thought: "We'll always go
on living here together, and some day she'll lie there beside me."

He let the vision possess him as they climbed the hill to the house. He was never so happy
with her as when he abandoned himself to these dreams. Half-way up the slope Mattie stumbled
against some unseen obstruction and clutched his sleeve to steady herself. The wave of warmth
that went through him was like the prolongation of his vision. For the first time he stole
his arm about her, and she did not resist. They walked on as if they were floating on a summer
stream.

Zeena always went to bed as soon as she had had her supper, and the shutterless windows of
the house were dark. A dead cucumber-vine dangled from the porch like the crape streamer tied
to the door for a death, and the thought flashed through Ethan's brain: "If it was there for
Zeena--" Then he had a distinct sight of his wife lying in their bedroom asleep, her mouth
slightly open, her false teeth in a tumbler by the bed...

They walked around to the back of the house, between the rigid gooseberry bushes. It was Zeena's
habit, when they came back late from the village, to leave the key of the kitchen door under
the mat. Ethan stood before the door, his head heavy with dreams, his arm still about Mattie.
"Matt--" he began, not knowing what he meant to say.

She slipped out of his hold without speaking, and he stooped down and felt for the key.

"It's not there!" he said, straightening himself with a start.

They strained their eyes at each other through the icy darkness. Such a thing had never happened
before.

"Maybe she's forgotten it," Mattie said in a tremulous whisper; but both of them knew that
it was not like Zeena to forget.

"It might have fallen off into the snow," Mattie continued, after a pause during which they
had stood intently listening.

"It must have been pushed off, then," he rejoined in the same tone. Another wild thought tore
through him. What if tramps had been there--what if...

Again he listened, fancying he heard a distant sound in the house; then he felt in his pocket
for a match, and kneeling down, passed its light slowly over the rough edges of snow about
the doorstep.

He was still kneeling when his eyes, on a level with the lower panel of the door, caught a
faint ray beneath it. Who could be stirring in that silent house? He heard a step on the stairs,
and again for an instant the thought of tramps tore through him. Then the door opened and he
saw his wife.

Against the dark background of the kitchen she stood up tall and angular, one hand drawing
a quilted counterpane to her flat breast, while the other held a lamp. The light, on a level
with her chin, drew out of the darkness her puckered throat and the projecting wrist of the
hand that clutched the quilt, and deepened fantastically the hollows and prominences of her
high-boned face under its ring of crimping-pins. To Ethan, still in the rosy haze of his hour
with Mattie, the sight came with the intense precision of the last dream before waking. He
felt as if he had never before known what his wife looked like.

She drew aside without speaking, and Mattie and Ethan passed into the kitchen, which had the
deadly chill of a vault after the dry cold of the night.

"Guess you forgot about us, Zeena," Ethan joked, stamping the snow from his boots.

"No. I just felt so mean I couldn't sleep."

Mattie came forward, unwinding her wraps, the colour of the cherry scarf in her fresh lips
and cheeks. "I'm so sorry, Zeena! Isn't there anything I can do?"

"No; there's nothing." Zeena turned away from her. "You might 'a' shook off that snow outside,"
she said to her husband.

She walked out of the kitchen ahead of them and pausing in the hall raised the lamp at arm's-length,
as if to light them up the stairs.

Ethan paused also, affecting to fumble for the peg on which he hung his coat and cap. The doors
of the two bedrooms faced each other across the narrow upper landing, and to-night it was peculiarly
repugnant to him that Mattie should see him follow Zeena.

"I guess I won't come up yet awhile," he said, turning as if to go back to the kitchen.

Zeena stopped short and looked at him. "For the land's sake--what you going to do down here?"

"I've got the mill accounts to go over."

She continued to stare at him, the flame of the unshaded lamp bringing out with microscopic
cruelty the fretful lines of her face.

"At this time o' night? You'll ketch your death. The fire's out long ago."

Without answering he moved away toward the kitchen. As he did so his glance crossed Mattie's
and he fancied that a fugitive warning gleamed through her lashes. The next moment they sank
to her flushed cheeks and she began to mount the stairs ahead of Zeena.

"That's so. It is powerful cold down here," Ethan assented; and with lowered head he went up
in his wife's wake, and followed her across the threshold of their room.

III

There was some hauling to be done at the lower end of the wood-lot, and Ethan was out early
the next day.

The winter morning was as clear as crystal. The sunrise burned red in a pure sky, the shadows
on the rim of the wood-lot were darkly blue, and beyond the white and scintillating fields
patches of far-off forest hung like smoke.

It was in the early morning stillness, when his muscles were swinging to their familiar task
and his lungs expanding with long draughts of mountain air, that Ethan did his clearest thinking.
He and Zeena had not exchanged a word after the door of their room had closed on them. She
had measured out some drops from a medicine-bottle on a chair by the bed and, after swallowing
them, and wrapping her head in a piece of yellow flannel, had lain down with her face turned
away. Ethan undressed hurriedly and blew out the light so that he should not see her when he
took his place at her side. As he lay there he could hear Mattie moving about in her room,
and her candle, sending its small ray across the landing, drew a scarcely perceptible line
of light under his door. He kept his eyes fixed on the light till it vanished. Then the room
grew perfectly black, and not a sound was audible but Zeena's asthmatic breathing. Ethan felt
confusedly that there were many things he ought to think about, but through his tingling veins
and tired brain only one sensation throbbed: the warmth of Mattie's shoulder against his. Why
had he not kissed her when he held her there? A few hours earlier he would not have asked himself
the question. Even a few minutes earlier, when they had stood alone outside the house, he would
not have dared to think of kissing her. But since he had seen her lips in the lamplight he
felt that they were his.

Now, in the bright morning air, her face was still before him. It was part of the sun's red
and of the pure glitter on the snow. How the girl had changed since she had come to Starkfield!
He remembered what a colourless slip of a thing she had looked the day he had met her at the
station. And all the first winter, how she had shivered with cold when the northerly gales
shook the thin clapboards and the snow beat like hail against the loose-hung windows!

He had been afraid that she would hate the hard life, the cold and loneliness; but not a sign
of discontent escaped her. Zeena took the view that Mattie was bound to make the best of Starkfield
since she hadn't any other place to go to; but this did not strike Ethan as conclusive. Zeena,
at any rate, did not apply the principle in her own case.

He felt all the more sorry for the girl because misfortune had, in a sense, indentured her
to them. Mattie Silver was the daughter of a cousin of Zenobia Frome's, who had inflamed his
clan with mingled sentiments of envy and admiration by descending from the hills to Connecticut,
where he had married a Stamford girl and succeeded to her father's thriving "drug" business.
Unhappily Orin Silver, a man of far-reaching aims, had died too soon to prove that the end
justifies the means. His accounts revealed merely what the means had been; and these were such
that it was fortunate for his wife and daughter that his books were examined only after his
impressive funeral. His wife died of the disclosure, and Mattie, at twenty, was left alone
to make her way on the fifty dollars obtained from the sale of her piano. For this purpose
her equipment, though varied, was inadequate. She could trim a hat, make molasses candy, recite
"Curfew shall not ring to-night," and play "The Lost Chord" and a pot-pourri from "Carmen."
When she tried to extend the field of her activities in the direction of stenography and book-keeping
her health broke down, and six months on her feet behind the counter of a department store
did not tend to restore it. Her nearest relations had been induced to place their savings in
her father's hands, and though, after his death, they ungrudgingly acquitted themselves of
the Christian duty of returning good for evil by giving his daughter all the advice at their
disposal, they could hardly be expected to supplement it by material aid. But when Zenobia's
doctor recommended her looking about for some one to help her with the house-work the clan
instantly saw the chance of exacting a compensation from Mattie. Zenobia, though doubtful of
the girl's efficiency, was tempted by the freedom to find fault without much risk of losing
her; and so Mattie came to Starkfield.

Zenobia's fault-finding was of the silent kind, but not the less penetrating for that. During
the first months Ethan alternately burned with the desire to see Mattie defy her and trembled
with fear of the result. Then the situation grew less strained. The pure air, and the long
summer hours in the open, gave back life and elasticity to Mattie, and Zeena, with more leisure
to devote to her complex ailments, grew less watchful of the girl's omissions; so that Ethan,
struggling on under the burden of his barren farm and failing saw-mill, could at least imagine
that peace reigned in his house.

There was really, even now, no tangible evidence to the contrary; but since the previous night
a vague dread had hung on his sky-line. It was formed of Zeena's obstinate silence, of Mattie's
sudden look of warning, of the memory of just such fleeting imperceptible signs as those which
told him, on certain stainless mornings, that before night there would be rain.

His dread was so strong that, man-like, he sought to postpone certainty. The hauling was not
over till mid-day, and as the lumber was to be delivered to Andrew Hale, the Starkfield builder,
it was really easier for Ethan to send Jotham Powell, the hired man, back to the farm on foot,
and drive the load down to the village himself. He had scrambled up on the logs, and was sitting
astride of them, close over his shaggy grays, when, coming between him and their streaming
necks, he had a vision of the warning look that Mattie had given him the night before.

"If there's going to be any trouble I want to be there," was his vague reflection, as he threw
to Jotham the unexpected order to unhitch the team and lead them back to the barn.

It was a slow trudge home through the heavy fields, and when the two men entered the kitchen
Mattie was lifting the coffee from the stove and Zeena was already at the table. Her husband
stopped short at sight of her. Instead of her usual calico wrapper and knitted shawl she wore
her best dress of brown merino, and above her thin strands of hair, which still preserved the
tight undulations of the crimping-pins, rose a hard perpendicular bonnet, as to which Ethan's
clearest notion was that he had to pay five dollars for it at the Bettsbridge Emporium. On
the floor beside her stood his old valise and a bandbox wrapped in newspapers.

"Why, where are you going, Zeena?" he exclaimed.

"I've got my shooting pains so bad that I'm going over to Bettsbridge to spend the night with
Aunt Martha Pierce and see that new doctor," she answered in a matter-of-fact tone, as if she
had said she was going into the store-room to take a look at the preserves, or up to the attic
to go over the blankets.

In spite of her sedentary habits such abrupt decisions were not without precedent in Zeena's
history. Twice or thrice before she had suddenly packed Ethan's valise and started off to Bettsbridge,
or even Springfield, to seek the advice of some new doctor, and her husband had grown to dread
these expeditions because of their cost. Zeena always came back laden with expensive remedies,
and her last visit to Springfield had been commemorated by her paying twenty dollars for an
electric battery of which she had never been able to learn the use. But for the moment his
sense of relief was so great as to preclude all other feelings. He had now no doubt that Zeena
had spoken the truth in saying, the night before, that she had sat up because she felt "too
mean" to sleep: her abrupt resolve to seek medical advice showed that, as usual, she was wholly
absorbed in her health.

As if expecting a protest, she continued plaintively; "If you're too busy with the hauling
I presume you can let Jotham Powell drive me over with the sorrel in time to ketch the train
at the Flats."

Her husband hardly heard what she was saying. During the winter months there was no stage between
Starkfield and Bettsbridge, and the trains which stopped at Corbury Flats were slow and infrequent.
A rapid calculation showed Ethan that Zeena could not be back at the farm before the following
evening....

"If I'd supposed you'd 'a' made any objection to Jotham Powell's driving me over--" she began
again, as though his silence had implied refusal. On the brink of departure she was always
seized with a flux of words. "All I know is," she continued, "I can't go on the way I am much
longer. The pains are clear away down to my ankles now, or I'd 'a' walked in to Starkfield
on my own feet, sooner'n put you out, and asked Michael Eady to let me ride over on his wagon
to the Flats, when he sends to meet the train that brings his groceries. I'd 'a' had two hours
to wait in the station, but I'd sooner 'a' done it, even with this cold, than to have you say--"

"Of course Jotham'll drive you over," Ethan roused himself to answer. He became suddenly conscious
that he was looking at Mattie while Zeena talked to him, and with an effort he turned his eyes
to his wife. She sat opposite the window, and the pale light reflected from the banks of snow
made her face look more than usually drawn and bloodless, sharpened the three parallel creases
between ear and cheek, and drew querulous lines from her thin nose to the corners of her mouth.
Though she was but seven years her husband's senior, and he was only twenty-eight, she was
already an old woman.

Ethan tried to say something befitting the occasion, but there was only one thought in his
mind: the fact that, for the first time since Mattie had come to live with them, Zeena was
to be away for a night. He wondered if the girl were thinking of it too....

He knew that Zeena must be wondering why he did not offer to drive her to the Flats and let
Jotham Powell take the lumber to Starkfield, and at first he could not think of a pretext for
not doing so; then he said: "I'd take you over myself, only I've got to collect the cash for
the lumber."

As soon as the words were spoken he regretted them, not only because they were untrue--there
being no prospect of his receiving cash payment from Hale--but also because he knew from experience
the imprudence of letting Zeena think he was in funds on the eve of one of her therapeutic
excursions. At the moment, however, his one desire was to avoid the long drive with her behind
the ancient sorrel who never went out of a walk.

Zeena made no reply: she did not seem to hear what he had said. She had already pushed her
plate aside, and was measuring out a draught from a large bottle at her elbow.

"It ain't done me a speck of good, but I guess I might as well use it up," she remarked; adding,
as she pushed the empty bottle toward Mattie: "If you can get the taste out it'll do for pickles."

IV

As soon as his wife had driven off Ethan took his coat and cap from the peg. Mattie was washing
up the dishes, humming one of the dance tunes of the night before. He said "So long, Matt,"
and she answered gaily "So long, Ethan"; and that was all.

It was warm and bright in the kitchen. The sun slanted through the south window on the girl's
moving figure, on the cat dozing in a chair, and on the geraniums brought in from the door-way,
where Ethan had planted them in the summer to "make a garden" for Mattie. He would have liked
to linger on, watching her tidy up and then settle down to her sewing; but he wanted still
more to get the hauling done and be back at the farm before night.

All the way down to the village he continued to think of his return to Mattie. The kitchen
was a poor place, not "spruce" and shining as his mother had kept it in his boyhood; but it
was surprising what a homelike look the mere fact of Zeena's absence gave it. And he pictured
what it would be like that evening, when he and Mattie were there after supper. For the first
time they would be alone together indoors, and they would sit there, one on each side of the
stove, like a married couple, he in his stocking feet and smoking his pipe, she laughing and
talking in that funny way she had, which was always as new to him as if he had never heard
her before.

The sweetness of the picture, and the relief of knowing that his fears of "trouble" with Zeena
were unfounded, sent up his spirits with a rush, and he, who was usually so silent, whistled
and sang aloud as he drove through the snowy fields. There was in him a slumbering spark of
sociability which the long Starkfield winters had not yet extinguished. By nature grave and
inarticulate, he admired recklessness and gaiety in others and was warmed to the marrow by
friendly human intercourse. At Worcester, though he had the name of keeping to himself and
not being much of a hand at a good time, he had secretly gloried in being clapped on the back
and hailed as "Old Ethe" or "Old Stiff"; and the cessation of such familiarities had increased
the chill of his return to Starkfield.

There the silence had deepened about him year by year. Left alone, after his father's accident,
to carry the burden of farm and mill, he had had no time for convivial loiterings in the village;
and when his mother fell ill the loneliness of the house grew more oppressive than that of
the fields. His mother had been a talker in her day, but after her "trouble" the sound of her
voice was seldom heard, though she had not lost the power of speech. Sometimes, in the long
winter evenings, when in desperation her son asked her why she didn't "say something," she
would lift a finger and answer: "Because I'm listening"; and on stormy nights, when the loud
wind was about the house, she would complain, if he spoke to her: "They're talking so out there
that I can't hear you."

It was only when she drew toward her last illness, and his cousin Zenobia Pierce came over
from the next valley to help him nurse her, that human speech was heard again in the house.
After the mortal silence of his long imprisonment Zeena's volubility was music in his ears.
He felt that he might have "gone like his mother" if the sound of a new voice had not come
to steady him. Zeena seemed to understand his case at a glance. She laughed at him for not
knowing the simplest sick-bed duties and told him to "go right along out" and leave her to
see to things. The mere fact of obeying her orders, of feeling free to go about his business
again and talk with other men, restored his shaken balance and magnified his sense of what
he owed her. Her efficiency shamed and dazzled him. She seemed to possess by instinct all the
household wisdom that his long apprenticeship had not instilled in him. When the end came it
was she who had to tell him to hitch up and go for the undertaker, and she thought it "funny"
that he had not settled beforehand who was to have his mother's clothes and the sewing-machine.
After the funeral, when he saw her preparing to go away, he was seized with an unreasoning
dread of being left alone on the farm; and before he knew what he was doing he had asked her
to stay there with him. He had often thought since that it would not have happened if his mother
had died in spring instead of winter...

When they married it was agreed that, as soon as he could straighten out the difficulties resulting
from Mrs. Frome's long illness, they would sell the farm and saw-mill and try their luck in
a large town. Ethan's love of nature did not take the form of a taste for agriculture. He had
always wanted to be an engineer, and to live in towns, where there were lectures and big libraries
and "fellows doing things." A slight engineering job in Florida, put in his way during his
period of study at Worcester, increased his faith in his ability as well as his eagerness to
see the world; and he felt sure that, with a "smart" wife like Zeena, it would not be long
before he had made himself a place in it.

Zeena's native village was slightly larger and nearer to the railway than Starkfield, and she
had let her husband see from the first that life on an isolated farm was not what she had expected
when she married. But purchasers were slow in coming, and while he waited for them Ethan learned
the impossibility of transplanting her. She chose to look down on Starkfield, but she could
not have lived in a place which looked down on her. Even Bettsbridge or Shadd's Falls would
not have been sufficiently aware of her, and in the greater cities which attracted Ethan she
would have suffered a complete loss of identity. And within a year of their marriage she developed
the "sickliness" which had since made her notable even in a community rich in pathological
instances. When she came to take care of his mother she had seemed to Ethan like the very genius
of health, but he soon saw that her skill as a nurse had been acquired by the absorbed observation
of her own symptoms.

