"What?" demanded the preacher, "you can not surely mean that Brother Stevens hath been a wolf
in sheep's clothing--that he hath been a hypocrite."

"Alas!" thought Margaret Cooper--"have I not been my own worst enemy--did I not know him to
be this from the first?"

Her secret reflection remained, however, unspoken. She answered the demand of John Cross without
a moment's hesitation.

"I believe that Alfred Stevens is all that he is charged to be--a hypocrite--a wolf in sheep's
clothing!--I see no reason to doubt the story of Ned Hinkley. He is an honest youth."

The old lady was in consternation. The preacher aghast and confounded.

"Tell me, Margaret," said the former, "hath he not engaged himself to you? Did he not promise--is
he not sworn to be your husband?"

"I have already given you my belief. I see no reason to say anything more. What more do you
need? Is he not gone--fled--has he not failed--"

She paused abruptly, while a purple flush went over her face. She rose to retire.

"Margaret!" exclaimed the mother.

"My daughter!" said John Cross.

"Speak out what you know--tell us all--"

"No! I will say no more. You know enough already. I tell you, I believe Alfred Stevens to be
a hypocrite and a villain. Is not that enough? What is it to you whether he is so or not? What
is it to me, at least? You do not suppose that it is anything to me?  Why should you? What
should he be? I tell you he is nothing to me--nothing--nothing--nothing! Villain or hypocrite,
or what not--he is no more to me than the earth on which I tread. Let me hear no more about
him, I pray you. I would not hear his name! Are there not villains enough in the world, that
you should think and speak of one only?"

With these vehement words she left the room, and hurried to her chamber. She stopped suddenly
before the mirror.

"And is it thus!" she exclaimed--"and I am--"

The mother by this time had followed her into the room.

"What is the meaning of this, Margaret?--tell me!" cried the old woman in the wildest agitation.

"What should it be, mother? Look at me!--in my eyes--do they not tell you? Can you not read?"

"I see nothing--I do not understand you, Margaret."

"Indeed! but you shall understand me! I thought my face would tell you without my words. I
see it there, legible enough, to myself. Look again!--spare me if you can--spare your own ears
the necessity of hearing me speak!"

"You terrify me, Margaret--I fear you are out of your mind.

"No! no! that need not be your fear; nor, were it true, would it be a fear of mine. It might
be something to hope--to pray for.  It might bring relief. Hear me, since you will not see.
You ask me why I believe Stevens to be a villain. I KNOW it."

"Ha! how know it!"

"How! How should I know it? Well, I see that I must speak. Listen then. You bade me seek and
make a conquest of him, did you not? Do not deny it, mother--you did."

"Well, if I did?"

"I succeeded! Without trying, I succeeded! He declared to me his love--he did!--he promised
to marry me. He was to have married me yesterday--to have met me in church and married me.
John Cross was to have performed the ceremony. Well! you saw me there--you saw me in white--the
dress of a bride!--Did he come? Did you see him there? Did you see the ceremony performed?"

"No, surely not--you know without asking."

"I know without asking!--surely I do!--but look you, mother--do you think that conquests are
to be made, hearts won, loves confessed, pledges given, marriage-day fixed--do these things
take place, as matters of pure form? Is there no sensation--no agitation--no beating and violence
about the heart--in the blood--in the brain! I tell you there is--a blinding violence, a wild,
stormy, sensation --fondness, forgetfulness, madness! I say, madness! madness! madness!"

"Oh, my daughter, what can all this mean? Speak calmly, be deliberate!"

"Calm! deliberate! What a monster if I could be! But I am not mad now. I will tell you what
it means. It means that, in taking captive Alfred Stevens--in winning a lover--securing that
pious young man--there was some difficulty, some peril. Would you believe it?--there were some
privileges which he claimed. He took me in his arms. Ha! ha! He held me panting to his breast.
His mouth filled mine with kisses--"

"No more, do not say more, my child!"

"Ay, more! more! much more! I tell you--then came blindness and madness, and I was dishonored--made
a woman before I was made a wife! Ruined, lost, abused, despised, abandoned! Ha! ha! ha!  no
marriage ceremony. Though I went to the church. No bridegroom there, though he promised to
come. Preacher, church, bride, all present, yet no wedding. Ha! ha! ha! How do I know!--Good
reason for it, good reason--Ha! ha!--ah!"

The paroxysm, terminated in a convulsion. The unhappy girl fell to the floor as if stricken
in the forehead. The blood gushed from her mouth and nostrils, and she lay insensible in the
presence of the terrified and miserable mother.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE FATES FIND THE DAGGER AND THE BOWL.

For a long time she lay without showing any signs of life. Her passions rebelled against the
restraint which her mind had endeavored to put upon them. Their concentrated force breaking
all bonds, so suddenly, was like the terrific outburst of the boiling lava from the gorges
of the frozen mountain. Believing her dead, the mother rushed headlong into the highway, rending
the village with her screams. She was for the time a perfect madwoman. The neighbors gathered
to her assistance. That much-abused woman, the widow Thackeray, was the first to come. Never
was woman's tenderness more remarkable than hers--never was woman's watch by the bed of sickness
and suffering--that watch which woman alone knows so well how to keep--more rigidly maintained
than by her! From the first hour of that agony under which Margaret Cooper fell to earth insensible,
to the last moment in which her recovery was doubtful, that widow Thackeray--whose passion
for a husband had been described by Mrs. Cooper as so very decided and evident--maintained
her place by the sick bed of the stricken girl with all the affection of a mother. Widow Thackeray
was a woman who could laugh merrily, but she could shed tears with equal readiness. These were
equally the signs of prompt feeling and nice susceptibility; and the proud Margaret, and her
invidious mother, were both humbled by that spontaneous kindness for which, hitherto, they
had given the possessor so very little credit, and to which they were now equally so greatly
indebted.

Medical attendance was promptly secured. Charlemont had a very clever physician of the old
school. He combined as was requisite in the forest region of our country, the distinct offices
of the surgeon and mediciner. He was tolerably skilful in both departments. He found his patient
in a condition of considerable peril. She had broken a blood-vessel; and the nicest care and
closest attendance were necessary to her preservation. It will not need that we should go through
the long and weary details which followed to her final cure. Enough, that she did recover.
But for weeks her chance was doubtful. She lay for that space of time, equally in the arms
of life and death. For a long period, she herself was unconscious of her situation.

