The first intelligence that arrived was brought by Uncle Roger and Beatrice, who, rather to
their surprise, came back in the gig, and greatly relieved their minds with the intelligence
of Frederick's life, and of Philip Carey's arrival. Henrietta had sprung eagerly up on their
first entrance, with parted lips and earnest eyes, and listened to their narration with trembling
throbbing hope, but with scarcely a word; and when she heard that Fred still lay senseless
and motionless, she again turned away, and hid her face on the arm of the sofa, without one
look at Beatrice, reckless of the pang that shot through the heart of one flesh from that trying
watch over her brother. Beatrice hoped for one word, one kiss, and looked wistfully at the
long veil of half uncurled ringlets that floated over the crossed arms on which her forehead
rested, and meantime submitted with a kind of patient indifference to her grandmother's caress,
drank hot wine and water, sat by the fire, and finally was sent upstairs to change her dress.
Too restless, too anxious, too wretched to stay there alone, longing for some interchange of
sympathy,--but her mind too turbid with agitation to seek it where it would most surely have
been found,--she hastened down again. Grandmamma was busied in giving directions for the room
which was being prepared for Fred; Uncle Roger had walked out to meet those who were conveying
him home: and Henrietta was sitting in the window, her forehead resting against the glass,
watching intently for their arrival.

"Are they coming?" asked Beatrice anxiously.

"No!" was all the answer, hardly uttered, and without looking round, as if her cousin's entrance
was perfectly indifferent to her. Beatrice went up and stood by her, looking out for a few
minutes; then taking the hand that lay in her lap, she said in an imploring whisper, "Henrietta,
you forgive me?"

The hand lay limp and lifeless in hers, and Henrietta scarcely raised her face as she answered,
in a low, languid, dejected voice, "Of course, Bee, only I am so wretched. Don't talk to me."

Her head sunk again, and Beatrice stepped hastily back to the fire, with a more bitter feeling
than she had ever known. This was no forgiveness; it was worse than anger or reproach; it was
a repulse, and that when her whole heart was yearning to relieve the pent-up oppression that
almost choked her, by weeping with her. She leant her burning forehead on the cool marble chimney-piece,
and longed for her mother,--longed for her almost as much for her papa's, her Aunt Mary's and
her grandmother's sake, as for her own. But O! what an infinite relief would one talk with
her have been! She turned toward the table, and thought of writing to her, but her hand was
trembling--every pulse throbbing; she could not even sit still enough to make the attempt.

At last she saw Henrietta spring to her feet, and hastening to the window beheld the melancholy
procession; Fred carried on a mattress by Uncle Geoffrey and three of the labourers; Philip
Carey walking at one side, and on the other Mrs. Frederick Langford leaning on Uncle Roger's arm.

Both girls hurried out to meet them, but all attention was at that moment for the patient,
as he was carried in on his mattress, and deposited for a few minutes on the large hall table.
Henrietta pushed between her uncles, and made her way up to him, unconscious of the presence
of anyone else--even of her mother--while she clasped his hand, and hanging over him looked
with an agonized intensity at his motionless features. The next moment she felt her mother's
hand on her shoulder, and was forced to turn round and look into her face: the sweet mournful
meekness of which came for a moment like a soft cooling breeze upon the dry burning desert
of her grief.

"My poor child," said the gentle voice.

"O, mamma, is--is--." She could not speak; her face was violently agitated, and the very muscles
of her throat quivered.

"They hope for the best, my dear," was the reply; but both Mr. Geoffrey Langford and Beatrice
distinguished her own hopelessness in the intonation, and the very form of the expression:
whereas Henrietta only took in and eagerly seized the idea of comfort which it was intended
to convey to her. She would have inquired more, but Mrs. Langford was telling her mother of
the arrangements she had made, and entreating her to take some rest.

"Thank you, ma'am,--thank you very much indeed--you are very kind: I am very sorry to give
you so much trouble," were her answers; and simple as were the words, there was a whole world
of truth and reality in them.

Preparations were now made for carrying Fred up stairs, but even at that moment Aunt Mary was
not without thought for Beatrice, who was retreating, as if she feared to be as much in her
way as she had been in Henrietta's.

"I did not see you, before, Queenie," she said, holding out her hand and kissing her, "you
have gone through more than any one."

A thrill of fond grateful affection brought the tears into Queen Bee's eyes. How much there
was even in the pronunciation of that pet playful name to touch her heart, and fill it to overflowing
with love and contrition. She longed to pour out her whole confession, but there was no one
to attend to her--the patient occupied the whole attention of all. He was carried to his mother's
room, placed in bed, and again examined by young Mr. Carey, who pronounced with increased confidence
that there was no fracture, and gave considerable hopes of improvement. While this was passing,
Henrietta sat on the upper step of the stairs, her head on her hands, scarcely moving or answering
when addressed. As evening twilight began to close in, the surgeon left the room, and went
down to make his report to those who were anxiously awaiting it in the drawing-room; and she
took advantage of his exit to come to the door, and beg to be let in.

Uncle Geoffrey admitted her; and her mother, who was sitting by the bed-side, held out her
hand. Henrietta came up to her, and at first stood by her, intently watching her brother; then
after a time sat down on a footstool, and, with her head resting on her mother's lap, gave
herself up to a sort of quiet heavy dream, which might be called the very luxury of grief.
Uncle Geoffrey sat by the fire, watching his sister-in-law even more anxiously than the patient,
and thus a considerable interval passed in complete silence, only broken by the crackling of
the fire, the ticking of the watches, or some slight change of posture of one or other of the
three nurses. At last the stillness was interrupted by a little movement among the bedclothes,
and with a feeling like transport, Henrietta saw the hand, which had hitherto lain so still
and helpless, stretched somewhat out, and the head turned upon the pillow. Uncle Geoffrey stood
up, and Mrs. Frederick Langford pressed her daughter's hand with a sort of convulsive tremor.
A faint voice murmured "Mamma!" and while a flush of trembling joy illumined her pale face,
she bent over him, answering him eagerly and fondly, but he did not seem to know her, and again
repeating "Mamma," opened his eyes with a vacant gaze, and tried in vain to express some complaint.

In a short time, however, he regained a partial degree of consciousness. He knew his mother,
and was continually calling to her, as if for the sake of feeling her presence, but without
recognizing any other person, not even his sister or his uncle. Henrietta stood gazing sadly
upon him, while his mother hung over him soothing his restlessness, and answering his half-uttered
complaints, and Uncle Geoffrey was ever ready with assistance and comfort to each in turn,
as it was needed, and especially supporting his sister-in-law with that sense of protection
and reliance so precious to a sinking heart.

Aunt Roger came up to announce that dinner was ready, and to beg that she might stay with Fred
while the rest went down. Mrs. Frederick Langford only shook her head, and thanked her, saying
with a painful smile that it was impossible, but begging Uncle Geoffrey and Henrietta to go.
The former complied, knowing how much alarm his absence would create downstairs; but Henrietta
declared that she could not bear the thoughts of going down, and it was only by a positive
order that he succeeded in making her come with him. Grandpapa kissed her, and made her sit
by him, and grandmamma loaded her plate with all that was best on the table, but she looked
at it with disgust, and leaning back in her chair, faintly begged not to be asked to eat.

Uncle Geoffrey poured out a glass of wine, and said in a tone which startled her by its unwonted
severity, "This will not do, Henrietta; I cannot allow you to add to your mamma's troubles
by making yourself ill. I desire you will eat, as you certainly can."

Every one was taken by surprise, and perhaps Mrs. Langford might have interfered, but for a
sign from grandpapa. Henrietta, with a feeling of being cruelly treated, silently obeyed, swallowed
down the wine, and having done so, found herself capable of making a very tolerable dinner,
by which she was greatly relieved and refreshed.

Uncle Geoffrey said a few cheering words to his father and mother, and returned to Fred's room
as soon as he could, without giving that appearance of hurry and anxiety which would have increased
their alarm. Henrietta, without the same thoughtfulness, rushed rather than ran after him,
and neither of the two came down again to tea.

Philip Carey was to stay all night, and though Beatrice was of course very glad that he should
do so, yet she was much harassed by the conversation kept up with him for civility's sake.
She had been leading a forlorn dreary life all the afternoon, busy first in helping grandmamma
to write notes to be sent to the intended guests, and afterwards, with a feeling of intense
disgust, putting out of sight all the preparations for their own self-chosen sport. She desired
quiet, and yet when she found it, it was unendurable, and to talk to her father or grandfather
would be a great relief, yet the first beginning might well be dreaded. Neither of them was
forthcoming, and now in the evening to hear the quiet grave discussion of Allonfield gossip
was excessively harassing and irritating. No one spoke for their own pleasure, the thoughts
of all were elsewhere, and they only talked thus for the sake of politeness; but she gave them
no credit for this, and felt fretted and wearied beyond bearing. Even this, however, was better
than when they did return to the engrossing thought, and spoke of the accident, requiring of
her a more exact and particular account of it. She hurried over it. Grandmamma praised her,
and each word was a sting.

"But, my dear," said Mrs. Roger Langford, "what could have made you so anxious to go to Allonfield?"

"O, Aunt Roger, it was very--" but here Beatrice, whose agitated spirits made her particularly
accessible to momentary emotion, was seized with such a sense of the absurdity of undertaking
so foolish an expedition, with no other purpose than going to buy a pair of ass's ears, that
she was overpowered by a violent fit of laughing. Grandmamma and Aunt Roger, after looking
at her in amazement for a moment, both started up, and came towards her with looks of alarm
that set her off again still more uncontrollably. She struggled to speak, but that only made
it worse, and when she perceived that she was supposed to be hysterical, she laughed the more,
though the laughter was positive pain. Once she for a moment succeeded in recovering some degree
of composure, but every kind demonstration of solicitude brought on a fresh access of laughter,
and a certain whispering threat of calling Philip Carey was worse than all. When, however,
Aunt Roger was actually setting off for the purpose, the dread of his coming had a salutary
effect, and enabled her to make a violent effort, by which she composed herself, and at length
sat quite still, except for the trembling, which she could not control.

Grandmamma and Aunt Roger united in ordering her to bed, but she could not bear to go without
seeing her papa, nor would she accept Mrs. Langford's offer of calling him; and at last a compromise
was made that she should go up to bed on condition that her papa should come and visit her
when he came out of Fred's room. Her grandmamma came up with her, helped her to undress, gave
her the unwonted indulgence of a fire, and summoned Judith to prepare things as quickly and
quietly as possible for Henrietta, who was to sleep with her that night. It was with much difficulty
that she could avoid making a promise to go to bed immediately, and not to get up to breakfast.
At last, with a very affectionate kiss, grandmamma left her to brush her hair, an operation
which she resolved to lengthen out until her papa's visit.

It was long before he came, but at last his step was heard along the passage, his knock was
at her door. She flew to it, and stood before him, her large black eyes looking larger, brighter,
blacker than usual from the contrast with the pale or rather sallow face, and the white nightcap
and dressing-gown.

"How is Fred?" asked she as well as her parched tongue would allow her to speak.

"Much the same, only talking a little more. But why are you up still? Your grandmamma said--"

"Never mind, papa," interrupted she, "only tell me this--is Fred in danger?"

"You have heard all we can tell, my dear--"

Beatrice interrupted him by an impatient, despairing look, and clasped her hands: "I know--I
know; but what do you think?"

"My own impression is," said her father, in a calm, kind, yet almost reproving tone, as if
to warn her to repress her agitation, "that there is no reason to give up hope, although it
is impossible yet to ascertain the extent of the injury."

Beatrice retreated a step or two: she stood by the table, one hand upon it, as if for support,
yet her figure quite erect, her eyes fixed on his face, and her voice firm, though husky, as
she said, slowly and quietly, "Papa, if Fred dies, it is my doing."

His face did not express surprise or horror--nothing but kindness and compassion, while he
answered, "My poor girl, I was afraid how it might have been." Then he led her to a chair and
sat down by her side, so as to let her perceive that he was ready to listen, and would give
her time. He might be in haste, but it was no time to show it.

She now spoke with more hurry and agitation, "Yes, yes, papa, it was the very thing you warned
me against--I mean--I mean--the being set in my own way, and liking to tease the boys. O if
I could but speak to tell you all, but it seems like a weight here choking me," and she touched
her throat. "I can't get it out in words! O!" Poor Beatrice even groaned aloud with oppression.

"Do not try to express it," said her father: "at least, it is not I who can give you the best
comfort. Here"--and he took up a Prayer Book.

"Yes, I feel as if I could turn there now I have told you, papa," said Beatrice; "but when
I could not get at you, everything seemed dried up in me. Not one prayer or confession would
come;--but now, O! now you know it, and--and--I feel as if He would not turn away His face.
Do you know I did try the 51st Psalm, but it would not do, not even 'deliver me from blood-guiltiness,'
it would only make me shudder! O, papa, it was dreadful!"

Her father's answer was to draw her down on her knees by his side, and read a few verses of
that very Psalm, and a few clauses of the prayer for persons troubled in mind, and he ended
with the Lord's Prayer. Beatrice, when it was over, leant her head against him, and did not
speak, nor weep, but she seemed refreshed and relieved. He watched her anxiously and affectionately,
doubting whether it was right to bestow so much time on her exclusively, yet unwilling to leave
her. When she again spoke, it was in a lower, more subdued, and softer voice, "Aunt Mary will
forgive me, I know; you will tell her, papa, and then it will not be quite so bad! Now I can
pray that he may be saved--O, papa--disobedient, and I the cause; how could I ever bear the
thought?"

"You can only pray," replied her father.

"Now that I can once more," said Beatrice; and again there was a silence, while she stood thinking
deeply, but contrary to her usual habit, not speaking, and he knowing well her tendency to
lose her repentant feelings by expressing them, was not willing to interrupt her. So they remained
for nearly ten minutes, until at last he thought it time to leave her, and made some movement
as if to do so. Then she spoke, "Only tell me one thing, papa. Do you think Aunt Mary has any
hope? There was something--something death-like in her face. Does she hope?"

Mr. Geoffrey Langford shook his head. "Not yet," said he. "I think it may be better after this
first night is over. She is evidently reckoning the hours, and I think she has a kind of morbid
expectation that it will be as it was with his father, who lived twelve hours after his accident."

"But surely, surely," said Beatrice eagerly, "this is a very different case; Fred has spoken
so much more than my uncle did; and Philip says he is convinced that there is no fracture--"

"It is a morbid feeling," said Mr. Geoffrey Langford, "and therefore impossible to be reasoned
away. I see she dreads to be told to hope, and I shall not even attempt it till these fatal
twelve hours are over."

"Poor dear aunt!" sighed Beatrice. "I am glad, if it was to be, that you were here, for nobody
else would understand her."

"Understand her!" said he, with something of a smile. "No, Bee, such sorrow as hers has a sacredness
in it which is not what can be understood."

Beatrice sighed, and then with a look as if she saw a ray of comfort, said, "I suppose mamma
will soon be here?"

"I think not," said her father, "I shall tell her she had better wait to see how things go
on, and keep herself in reserve. At present it is needlessly tormenting your aunt to ask her
to leave Fred for a moment, and I do not think she has even the power to rest. While this goes
on, I am of more use in attending to him than your mamma could be; but if he is a long time
recovering, it will be a great advantage to have her coming fresh, and not half knocked up
with previous attendance."

"But how she will wish to be here!" exclaimed Beatrice, "and how you will want her!"

"No doubt of that, Queenie," said her father smiling, "but we must reserve our forces, and
I think she will be of the same mind. Well, I must go. Where is Henrietta to sleep to-night?"

"With me," said Beatrice.

"I will send her to you as soon as I can. You must do what you can with her, Bee, for I can
see that the way she hangs on her mamma is quite oppressive. If she had but a little vigour!"

"I don't know what to do about her!" said Beatrice with more dejection than she had yet shown,
"I wish I could be of any comfort to her, but I can't--I shall never do good to anybody--only
harm."

"Fear the harm, and the good will come," said Mr. Geoffrey Langford. "Good night, my dear."

Beatrice threw herself on her knees as soon as the door had closed on her father, and so remained
for a considerable time in one earnest, unexpressed outpouring of confession and prayer, for
how long she knew not, all that she was sensible of was a feeling of relief, the repose of
such humility and submission, such heartfelt contrition as she had never known before.

So she continued till she heard Henrietta's approaching steps, when she rose and opened the
door, ready to welcome her with all the affection and consolation in her power. There stood
Henrietta, a heavy weight on her eyes, her hair on one side all uncurled and flattened, the
colour on half her face much deepened, and a sort of stupor about her whole person, as if but
one idea possessed her. Beatrice went up to meet her, and took her candle, asking what account
she brought of the patient. "No better," was all the answer, and she sat down making no more
detailed answers to all her cousin's questions. She would have done the same to her grandmamma,
or any one else, so wrapped up was she in her own grief, but this conduct gave more pain to
Beatrice than it could have done to any one else, since it kept up the last miserable feeling
of being unforgiven. Beatrice let her sit still for some minutes, looking at her all the time
with an almost piteous glance of entreaty, of which Henrietta was perfectly unconscious, and
then began to beg her to undress, seconding the proposal by beginning to unfasten her dress.

Henrietta moved pettishly, as if provoked at being disturbed.

"I beg your pardon, dear Henrietta," said Beatrice; "if you would but let me! You will be ill
to-morrow, and that would be worse still."

"No, I shan't," said Henrietta shortly, "never mind me."

"But I must, dear Henrietta. If you would but--"

"I can't go to bed," replied Henrietta, "thank you, Bee, never mind--"

Beatrice stood still, much distressed at her own inability to be of any service, and pained
far more by the sight of Henrietta's grief than by the unkind rejection of herself. "Papa thinks
there is great hope," said she abruptly.

"Mamma does not," said Henrietta, edging away from her cousin as if to put an end to the subject.

Beatrice almost wrung her hands. O this wilfulness of grief, how hard it was to contend with
it! At last there was a knock at the door--it was grandmamma, suspecting that they were still
up. Little recked Beatrice of the scolding that fell on herself for not having been in bed
hours ago; she was only rejoiced at the determination that swept away all Henrietta's feeble
opposition. The bell was rung, Bennet was summoned, grandmamma peremptorily ordered her to
be undressed, and in another half-hour the cousins were lying side by side, Henrietta's lethargy
had become a heavy sleep, Beatrice was broad awake, listening to every sound, forming every
possible speculation on the future, and to her own overstretched fancy seeming actually to
feel the thoughts chasing each other through her throbbing head.

CHAPTER XIV.

"Half-past one," said Mr. Geoffrey Langford, as if it was a mere casual observation, though
in reality it was the announcement that the fatal twelve hours had passed more than half-an-hour
since.

There was no answer, but he heard a slight movement, and though carefully avoiding any attempt
to penetrate the darkness around the sick bed, he knew full well that his sister was on her
knees, and when he again heard her voice in reply to some rambling speech of her son, it had
a tremulous tone, very unlike its former settled hopelessness.

Again, when Philip Carey paid his morning visit, she studied the expression of his face with
anxious, inquiring, almost hopeful eyes, the crushed heart-broken indifference of yesterday
had passed away; and when the expedience of obtaining further advice was hinted at, she caught
at the suggestion with great eagerness, though the day before her only answer had been, "As
you think right." She spoke so as to show the greatest consideration for the feelings of Philip
Carey, then with her usual confiding spirit, she left the selection of the person to be called
in entirely to him, to her brother and father-in-law, and returned to her station by Frederick,
who had already missed and summoned her.

Philip, in spite of the small follies which provoked Beatrice's sarcasm, was by no means deficient
in good sense or ability; his education had owed much to the counsels of Mr. Geoffrey Langford,
whom he regarded with great reverence, and he was so conscious of his own inexperience and
diffident of his own opinion, as to be very anxious for assistance in this, the first very
serious case which had fallen under his own management. The proposal had come at first from
himself, and this was a cause of great rejoicing to those who had to reconcile Mrs. Langford
to the measure. In her eyes a doctor was a doctor, member of a privileged fraternity in which
she saw no distinctions, and to send for advice from London would, she thought, not only hurt
the feelings of Mrs. Roger Langford, and all the Carey connection, but seriously injure the
reputation of young Mr. Carey in his own neighbourhood.

Grandpapa answered, and Beatrice was glad he did so, that such considerations were as nothing
when weighed in the scale against Frederick's life; she was silenced, but unconvinced, and
unhappy till her son Geoffrey, coming down late to breakfast, greatly comforted her by letting
her make him some fresh toast with her own hands, and persuading her that it would be greatly
in favour of Philip's practice that his opinion should be confirmed by an authority of note.

The electric telegraph and the railroad brought the surgeon even before she had begun seriously
to expect him, and his opinion was completely satisfactory as far as regarded Philip Carey
and the measures already taken; Uncle Geoffrey himself feeling convinced that his approval
was genuine, and not merely assumed for courtesy's sake. He gave them, too, more confident
hope of the patient than Philip, in his diffidence, had ventured to do, saying that though
there certainly was concussion of the brain, he thought there was great probability that the
patient would do well, provided that they could combat the feverish symptoms which had begun
to appear. He consulted with Philip Carey, the future treatment was agreed upon, and he left
them with cheered and renewed spirits to enter on a long and anxious course of attendance.
Roger, who was obliged to go away the next day, cheered up his brother Alex into a certainty
that Fred would be about again in a week, and though no one but the boys shared the belief,
yet the assurances of any one so sanguine, inspired them all with something like hope.

The attendance at first fell almost entirely on Mrs. Frederick Langford and Uncle Geoffrey,
for the patient, who had now recovered a considerable degree of consciousness, would endure
no one else. If his mother's voice did not answer him the first moment, he instantly grew restless
and uneasy, and the plaintive inquiry, "Is Uncle Geoffrey here?" was many times repeated. He
would recognise Henrietta, but his usual answer to her was "You speak so loud;" though in reality,
her tone was almost exactly the same as her mother's; and above all others he disliked the
presence of Philip Carey.

"Who is that?" inquired he, the first time that he was at all conscious of the visits of other
people: and when his mother explained, he asked quickly, "Is he gone?"

The next day, Fred was alive to all that was going on, but suffering considerable pain, and
with every sense quickened to the most acute and distressing degree, his eyes dazzled by light
which, as he declared, glanced upon the picture frames in a room where his mother and uncle
could scarcely see to find their way, and his ears pierced, as it were, by the slightest sound
in the silent house, sleepless with pain, incapable of thought, excessively irritable in temper,
and his faculties, as it seemed, restored only to be the means of suffering. Mrs. Langford
came to the door to announce that Philip Carey was come. Mr. Geoffrey Langford went to speak
to him, and grandmamma and Henrietta began to arrange the room a little for his reception.
Fred, however, soon stopped this. "I can't bear the shaking," said he. "Tell them to leave
off, mamma."

Grandmamma, unconscious of the pain she was inflicting, and believing that she made not the
slightest noise, continued to put the chairs in order, but Fred gave an impatient, melancholy
sort of groan and exclamation, and Mrs. Langford remarked, "Well, if he cannot bear it, it
cannot be helped; but it is quite dangerous in this dark room!" And out she went, Fred frowning
with pain at every step she took.

"Why do you let people come?" asked he sharply of his mother. "Where is Uncle Geoffrey gone?"

"He is speaking with Mr. Philip Carey, my dear, he will be here with him directly."

"I don't want Philip Carey; don't let him come."

"My dear boy, he must come; he has not seen you to-day, perhaps he may do something for this
sad pain."

Fred turned away impatiently, and at the same moment Uncle Geoffrey opened the door to ask
if Fred was ready.

"Yes," said Mrs. Frederick Langford: and Philip entered. But Fred would not turn towards him
till desired to do so, nor give his hand readily for his pulse to be felt. Philip thought it
necessary to see his face a little more distinctly, and begged his pardon for having the window
shutters partly opened; but Fred contrived completely to frustrate his intention, as with an
exclamation which had in it as much of anger as of pain, he turned his face inwards to the
pillow, and drew the bed-clothes over it.

"My dear boy," said his mother, pleadingly, "for one moment only!"

"I told you I could not bear the light," was all the reply.

"If you would but oblige me for a few seconds," said Philip.

"Fred!" said his uncle gravely; and Fred made a slight demonstration as if to obey, but at
the first glimpse of the dim light, he hid his face again, saying, "I can't;" and Philip gave
up the attempt, closed the shutter, unfortunately not quite as noiselessly as Uncle Geoffrey
had opened it, and proceeded to ask sundry questions; to which the patient scarcely vouchsafed
a short and pettish reply. When at last he quitted the room, and was followed by Mrs. Frederick
Langford, a "Don't go, mamma," was immediately heard.

"You must spare me for a very little while, my dear," said she, gently but steadily.

"Don't stay long, then," replied he.

Uncle Geoffrey came up to his bedside, and with a touch soft and light as a woman's, arranged
the coverings disturbed by his restlessness, and for a few moments succeeded in tranquillizing
him, but almost immediately he renewed his entreaties that his mother would return, and had
it been any other than his uncle who had taken her place, would have grumbled at his not going
to call her. On her return, she was greeted with a discontented murmur. "What an immense time
you have stayed away!"--presently after, "I wish you would not have that Carey!" and then,
"I wish we were at Rocksand,--I wish Mr. Clarke were here."

Patience in illness is a quality so frequently described in books as well as actually found
in real life, that we are apt to believe that it comes as a matter of course, and without previous
training, particularly in the young, and that peevishness is especially reserved for the old
and querulous, who are to try the amiability of the heroine. To a certain degree, this is often
the case; the complete prostration of strength, and the dim awe of approaching death in the
acute illnesses of the young, often tame down the stubborn or petulant temper, and their patience
and forbearance become the wonder and admiration of those who have seen germs of far other
dispositions. And when this is not the case, who would have the heart to complain? Certainly
not those who are like the mother and uncle who had most to endure from the exacting humours
of Frederick Langford. High spirits, excellent health, a certain degree of gentleness of character,
and a home where, though he was not over indulged, there was little to ruffle him, all had
hitherto combined to make him appear one of the most amiable good-tempered boys that ever existed;
but there was no substance in this apparent good quality, it was founded on no real principle
of obedience or submission, and when to an habitual spirit of determination to have his own
way, was superadded the irritability of nerves which was a part of his illness, when his powers
of reflection were too much weakened to endure or comprehend argument; when, in fact, nothing
was left to fall back upon but the simple obedience which would have been required in a child,
and when that obedience was wanting, what could result but increased discomfort to himself
and all concerned? Yes, even as we should lay up a store of prayers against that time when
we shall be unable to pray for ourselves, so surely should we lay up a store of habits against
the time when we may be unable to think or reason for ourselves! How often have lives been
saved by the mere instinct of unquestioning instantaneous obedience!

Had Frederick possessed that instinct, how much present suffering and future wretchedness might
have been spared him! His ideas were as yet too disconnected for him to understand or bear
in mind that he was subjecting his mother to excessive fatigue, but the habit of submission
would have led him to bear her absence patiently, instead of perpetually interrupting even
the short repose which she would now and then be persuaded to seek on the sofa. He would have
spared her his perpetual, harassing complaints, not so much of the pain he suffered, as of
every thing and every person who approached him, his Uncle Geoffrey being the only person against
whom he never murmured. Nor would he have rebelled against measures to which he was obliged
to submit in the end, after he had distressed every one and exhausted himself by his fruitless
opposition.

It was marvellous that the only two persons whose attendance he would endure could bear up
under the fatigue. Even Uncle Geoffrey, one of those spare wiry men, who, without much appearance
of strength are nevertheless capable of such continued exertion, was beginning to look worn
and almost aged, and yet Mrs. Frederick Langford was still indefatigable, unconscious of weariness,
quietly active, absorbed in the thought of her son, and yet not so absorbed as not to be full
of consideration for all around. All looked forward with apprehension to the time when the
consequences of such continued exertion must be felt, but in the meantime it was not in the
power of any one except her brother Geoffrey to be of any assistance to her, and her relations
could only wait and watch with such patience as they could command, for the period when their
services might be effectual.

