Then Peter Halket's mind got a little hazy. The matter was getting too difficult for him, like
a rule of three sum at school when he could not see the relation between the two first terms
and the third. Well, if they didn't like to sell out at the right time, it was their own faults.
Why didn't they? He, Peter Halket, did not feel responsible for them. Everyone knew that you
had to sell out at the right time. If they didn't choose to sell out at the right time, well,
they didn't. "It's the shares that you sell, not the shares you keep, that make the money."

But if they couldn't sell them?

Here Peter Halket hesitated.--Well, the British Government would have to buy them, if they
were so bad no one else would; and then no one would lose. "The British Government can't let
British share-holders suffer." He'd heard that often enough. The British taxpayer would have
to pay for the Chartered Company, for the soldiers, and all the other things, if IT couldn't,
and take over the shares if it went smash, because there were lords and dukes and princes connected
with it. And why shouldn't they pay for his company? He would have a lord in it too!

Peter Halket looked into the fire completely absorbed in his calculations.--Peter Halket, Esq.,
Director of the Peter Halket Gold Mining Company, Limited. Then, when he had got thousands,
Peter Halket, Esq., M.P. Then, when he had millions, Sir Peter Halket, Privy Councillor!

He reflected deeply, looking into the blaze. If you had five or six millions you could go where
you liked and do what you liked. You could go to Sandringham. You could marry anyone. No one
would ask what your mother had been; it wouldn't matter.

A curious dull sinking sensation came over Peter Halket; and he drew in his broad leathern
belt two holes tighter.

Even if you had only two millions you could have a cook and a valet, to go with you when you
went into the veld or to the wars; and you could have as much champagne and other things as
you liked. At that moment that seemed to Peter more important than going to Sandringham.

He took out his flask of Cape Smoke, and drew a tiny draught from it.

Other men had come to South Africa with nothing, and had made everything! Why should not he?

He stuck small branches under the two great logs, and a glorious flame burst out. Then he listened
again intently. The wind was falling and the night was becoming very still. It was a quarter
to twelve now. His back ached, and he would have liked to lie down; but he dared not, for fear
he should drop asleep. He leaned forward with his hands between his crossed knees, and watched
the blaze he had made.

Then, after a while, Peter Halket's thoughts became less clear: they became at last, rather,
a chain of disconnected pictures, painting themselves in irrelevant order on his brain, than
a line of connected ideas. Now, as he looked into the crackling blaze, it seemed to be one
of the fires they had make to burn the natives' grain by, and they were throwing in all they
could not carry away: then, he seemed to see his mother's fat ducks waddling down the little
path with the green grass on each side. Then, he seemed to see his huts where he lived with
the prospectors, and the native women who used to live with him; and he wondered where the
women were. Then--he saw the skull of an old Mashona blown off at the top, the hands still
moving. He heard the loud cry of the native women and children as they turned the maxims on
to the kraal; and then he heard the dynamite explode that blew up a cave. Then again he was
working a maxim gun, but it seemed to him it was more like the reaping machine he used to work
in England, and that what was going down before it was not yellow corn, but black men's heads;
and he thought when he looked back they lay behind him in rows, like the corn in sheaves.

The logs sent up a flame clear and high, and, where they split, showed a burning core inside:
the cracking and spluttering sounded in his brain like the discharge of a battery of artillery.
Then he thought suddenly of a black woman he and another man caught alone in the bush, her
baby on her back, but young and pretty. Well, they didn't shoot her!--and a black woman wasn't
white! His mother didn't understand these things; it was all so different in England from South
Africa. You couldn't be expected to do the same sort of things here as there. He had an unpleasant
feeling that he was justifying himself to his mother, and that he didn't know how to.

He leaned further and further forward: so far at last, that the little white lock of his hair
which hung out under his cap was almost singed by the fire. His eyes were still open, but the
lids drooped over them, and his hands hung lower and lower between his knees. There was no
picture left on his brain now, but simply an impress of the blazing logs before him.

Then, Trooper Peter Halket started. He sat up and listened. The wind had gone; there was not
a sound: but he listened intently. The fire burnt up into the still air, two clear red tongues
of flame.

Then, on the other side of the kopje he heard the sound of footsteps ascending; the slow even
tread of bare feet coming up.

The hair on Trooper Peter Halket's forehead slowly stiffened itself. He had no thought of escaping;
he was paralyzed with dread. He took up his gun. A deadly coldness crept from his feet to his
head. He had worked a maxim gun in a fight when some hundred natives fell and only one white
man had been wounded; and he had never known fear; but tonight his fingers were stiff on the
lock of his gun. He knelt low, tending a little to one side of the fire, with his gun ready.
A stone half sheltered him from anyone coming up from the other side of the kopje, and the
instant the figure appeared over the edge he intended to fire.

Then, the thought flashed on him; what, and if it were one of his own comrades come in search
of him, and no bare-footed enemy! The anguish of suspense wrung his heart; for an instant he
hesitated. Then, in a cold agony of terror, he cried out, "Who is there?"

And a voice replied in clear, slow English, "A friend."

Peter Halket almost let his gun drop, in the revulsion of feeling. The cold sweat which anguish
had restrained burst out in large drops on his forehead; but he still knelt holding his gun.

"What do you want?" he cried out quiveringly.

From the darkness at the edge of the kopje a figure stepped out into the full blaze of the
firelight.

Trooper Peter Halket looked up at it.

It was the tall figure of a man, clad in one loose linen garment, reaching lower than his knees,
and which clung close about him. His head, arms, and feet were bare. He carried no weapon of
any kind; and on his shoulders hung heavy locks of dark hair.

Peter Halket looked up at him with astonishment. "Are you alone?" he asked.

"Yes, I am alone."

Peter Halket lowered his gun and knelt up.

"Lost your way, I suppose?" he said, still holding his weapon loosely.

"No; I have come to ask whether I may sit beside your fire for a while."

"Certainly, certainly!" said Peter, eyeing the stranger's dress carefully, still holding his
gun, but with the hand off the lock. "I'm confoundedly glad of any company. It's a beastly
night for anyone to be out alone. Wonder you find your way. Sit down! sit down!" Peter looked
intently at the stranger; then he put his gun down at his side.

The stranger sat down on the opposite side of the fire. His complexion was dark; his arms and
feet were bronzed; but his aquiline features, and the domed forehead, were not of any South
African race.

"One of the Soudanese Rhodes brought with him from the north, I suppose?" said Peter, still
eyeing him curiously.

