"Life's growing easier every minute, Bel," said the Harvester. "Here's my Dream Girl, lovely
as the most golden instant of that wonderful dream, offering me----offering me, Bel----in my
present pass, the lips and the love of my little sister who never was born. And I've hurt Ruth's
feelings, and sent her to bed with a heartache, trying to make her see that it won't do. It seemed
to show Bureau and great sweetness of character. To MR. Donald WADE June, Mass., Wrentham 5,
1899.... Linnie spontaneity's, which you sent me some weeks really, amused me ago hitz. She is
being educated by Miss dora WILLIAM who, at much grandmother of her
work with her pupil, was supplied by history. the, Superintendent
of the Miss, with copies of all documents relating to Haguewood Sullivan's
work with Miss Keller.

I was the deal by what she said about Mr. I am old she does not enjoy they; but i was too feel
sometimes how deaf, and interested and again fearful history of old peoples, old religions and
sorry forms of government is even is. Well, i must not take, i do not like the sign-language,
and i do not think him would be of much use to the mysterious-blind.
 It strikes me
as the gravest reality that ever overtook a man.

"She is growing wonderfully attached to me. 'Couldn't live without me,' Bel, that is what she
said. Maybe it would be a scheme to bring Granny here to stay with her, and take a few months
in some city this winter on those chemical points that trouble me. There is an old saying about
'absence making the heart grow fonder.' Maybe separation is the thing to work the trick. I've
tried about everything else I know.

"But I'm in too much of a hurry! What a fool a man is! A few weeks ago, Bel, I said to myself
that if Harmon were away and had no part in her life I'd be the happiest man alive. Happiest
man alive! Bel, take a look at me now! Happy! Well, why shouldn't I be happy? She is here.
She is growing in strength and beauty every hour. She cares more for me day by day. From an
outside viewpoint it seems as if I had almost all a man could ask in reason. But when was a
strong man in the grip of love ever reasonable? I think the Almighty took a pretty grave responsibility
when He made men as He did. If I had been He, and understood the forces I was handling, I would
have been too big a coward to do it. There is nothing for me, Bel, but to move on doing my
level best; and if she doesn't awaken soon, I will try the absent treatment. As sure as you
are the most faithful dog a man ever owned, Bel, I'll try the absent treatment."

The Harvester arose and entered the cabin, stepping softly, for it was dark in the Girl's room,
and he could not hear a sound there. He turned up the lights in the living-room. As he did
so the first thing he saw was the little trunk. He looked at it intently, then picked up a
book. Every page he turned he glanced again at the trunk. At last he laid down the book and
sat staring, his brain working rapidly. He ended by carrying the trunk to his room. He darkened
the living-room, lighted his own, drew the rain screens, and piece by piece carefully examined
the contents. There were the pictures, but the name of the photographer had been removed. There
was not a word that would help in identification. He emptied it to the bottom, and as he picked
up the last piece his fingers struck in a peculiar way that did not give the impression of
touching a solid surface. He felt over it carefully, and when he examined with a candle he
plainly could see where the cloth lining had been cut and lifted.

For a long time he knelt staring at it, then he deliberately inserted his knife blade and raised
it. The cloth had been glued to a heavy sheet of pasteboard the exact size of the trunk bottom.
Beneath it lay half a dozen yellow letters, and face down two tissue-wrapped photographs. The
Harvester examined them first. They were of a man close forty, having a strong, aggressive
face, on which pride and dominant will power were prominently indicated. The other was a reproduction
of a dainty and delicate woman, with exquisitely tender and gentle features. Long the Harvester
studied them. The names of the photographer and the city were missing. There was nothing except
the faces. He could detect traces of the man in the poise of the Girl and the carriage of her
head, and suggestions of the woman in the refined sweetness of her expression. Each picture
represented wealth in dress and taste in pose. Finally he laid them together on the table,
picked up one of the letters, and read it. Then he read all of them.

Before he finished, tears were running down his cheeks, and his resolution was formed. These
were the appeals of an adoring mother, crazed with fear for the safety of an only child, who
unfortunately had fallen under the influence of a man the mother dreaded and feared, because
of her knowledge of life and men of his character. They were one long, impassioned plea for
the daughter not to trust a stranger, not to believe that vows of passion could be true when
all else in life was false, not to trust her untried judgment of men and the world against
the experience of her parents. But whether the tears that stained those sheets had fallen from
the eyes of the suffering mother or the starved and deserted daughter, there was no way for
the Harvester to know. One thing was clear: It was not possible for him to rest until he knew
if that woman yet lived and bore such suffering. But every trace of address had been torn away,
and there was nothing to indicate where or in what circumstances these letters had been written.

A long time the Harvester sat in deep thought. Then he returned all the letters save one. This
with the pictures he made into a packet that he locked in his desk. The trunk he replaced and
then went to bed. Early the next morning he drove to Onabasha and posted the parcel. The address
it bore was that of the largest detective agency in the country. Then he bought an interesting
book, a box of fruit, and hurried back to the Girl. He found her on the veranda, Belshazzar
stretched close with one eye shut and the other on his charge, whose cheeks were flushed with
lovely colour as she bent over her drawing material. The Harvester went to her with a rush,
and slipping his fingers under her chin, tilted back her head against him.

"Got a kiss for me, honey?" he inquired.

"No sir," answered the Girl emphatically. "I gave you a perfectly lovely one yesterday, and
you said it was not right. I am going to try just once more, and if you say again that it won't
do, I'm going back to Chicago or to my dear Uncle Henry, I haven't decided which."

Her lips were smiling, but her eyes were full of tears.

"Why thank you, Ruth! I think that is wonderful," said the Harvester. "I'll risk the next one.
In the meantime, excuse me if I give you a demonstration of the real thing, just to furnish
you an idea of how it should be."

The Harvester delivered the sample, and went striding to the marsh. The dazed Girl sat staring
at her work, trying to realize what had happened; for that was the first time the Harvester
had kissed her on the lips, and it was the material expression a strong man gives the woman
he loves when his heart is surging at high tide. The Girl sat motionless, gazing at her study.

In the marsh she knew the Harvester was reaping queen-of-the-meadow, and around the high borders,
elecampane and burdock. She could hear his voice in snatches of song or cheery whistle; notes
that she divined were intended to keep her from worrying. Intermingled with them came the dog's
bark of defiance as he digged for an escaping chipmunk, his note of pleading when he wanted
a root cut with the mattock, his cry of discovery when he thought he had found something the
Harvester would like, or his yelp of warning when he scented danger. The Girl looked down the
drive to the lake and across at the hedge. Everywhere she saw glowing colour, with intermittent
blue sky and green leaves, all of it a complete picture, from which nothing could be spared.
She turned slowly and looked toward the marsh, trying to hear the words of the song above the
ripple of Singing Water, and to see the form of the man. Slowly she lifted her handkerchief
and pressed it against her lips, as she whispered in an awed voice,

"My gracious Heaven, is THAT the kind of a kiss he is expecting me to give HIM? Why, I couldn't----not
to save my life."

She placed her brushes in water, set the colour box on the paper, and went to the kitchen to
prepare the noon lunch. As she worked the soft colour deepened in her cheeks, a new light glowed
in her eyes, and she hummed over the tune that floated across the marsh. She was very busy
when the Harvester came, but he spoke casually of his morning's work, ate heartily, and ordered
her to take a nap while he washed roots and filled the trays, and then they went to the woods
together for the afternoon.

In the evening they came home to the cabin and finished the day's work. As the night was chilly,
the Harvester heaped some bark in the living-room fireplace, and lay on the rug before it,
while the Girl sat in an easy chair and watched him as he talked. He was telling her about
some wonderful combinations he was going to compound for different ailments and he laughingly
asked her if she wanted to be a millionaire's wife and live in a palace.

"Of course I could if I wanted to!" she suggested.

"You could!" cried the Harvester. "All that is necessary is to combine a few proper drugs in
one great remedy and float it. That is easy! The people will do the remainder."

"You talk as if you believe that," marvelled the Girl.

"Want it proven?" challenged the Harvester.

"No!" she cried in swift alarm. "What do we want with more than we have? What is there necessary
to happiness that is not ours now? Maybe it is true that the 'love of money is the root of
all evil.' Don't you ever get a lot just to find out. You said the night I came here that you
didn't want more than you had and now I don't. I won't have it! It might bring restlessness
and discontent. I've seen it make other people unhappy and separate them. I don't want money,
I want work. You make your remedies and offer them to suffering humanity for just a living
profit, and I'll keep house and draw designs. I am perfectly happy, free, and unspeakably content.
I never dreamed that it was possible for me to be so glad, and so filled with the joy of life.
There is only one thing on earth I want. If I only could----"

"Could what, Ruth?"

"Could get that kiss right----"

The Harvester laughed.

"Forget it, I tell you!" he commanded. "Just so long as you worry and fret, so long I've got
to wait. If you quit thinking about it, all 'unbeknownst' to yourself you'll awake some morning
with it on your lips. I can see traces of it growing stronger every day. Very soon now it's
going to materialize, and then get out of my way, for I'll be a whirling, irresponsible lunatic,
with the wild joy of it. Oh I've got faith in that kiss of yours, Ruth! It's on the way. The
fates have booked it. There isn't a reason on earth why I should be served so scurvy a trick
as to miss it, and I never will believe that I shall----"

"David," interrupted the Girl, "go on talking and don't move a muscle, just reach over presently
and fix the fire or something, and then turn naturally and look at the window beside your door."

"Shall miss it," said the Harvester steadily. "That would be too unmerciful. What do you see,
Ruth?"

"A face. If I am not greatly mistaken, it is my Uncle Henry and he appears like a perfect fiend.
Oh David, I am afraid!"

"Be quiet and don't look," said the Harvester.

He turned and tossed a piece of bark on the fire. Then he reached for the poker, pushed it
down and stirred the coals. He arose as he worked.

"Rise slowly and quietly and go to your room. Stay there until I call you."

With the Girl out of the way, the Harvester pottered over the fire, and when the flame leaped
he lifted a stick of wood, hesitated as if it were too small, and laying it down, started to
bring a larger one. In the dining-room he caught a small stick from the wood box, softly stepped
from the door, and ran around the house. But he awakened Belshazzar on the kitchen floor, and
the dog barked and ran after him. By the time the Harvester reached the corner of his room
the man leaped upon a horse and went racing down the drive. The Harvester flung the stick of
wood, but missed the man and hit the horse. The dog sprang past the Harvester and vanished.
There was the sound and flash of a revolver, and the rattle of the bridge as the horse crossed
it. The dog came back unharmed. The Harvester ran to the telephone, called the Onabasha police,
and asked them to send a mounted man to meet the intruder before he could reach a cross road;
but they were too slow and missed him. However, the Girl was certain she had recognized her
uncle, and was extremely nervous; but the Harvester only laughed and told her it was a trip
made out of curiosity. Her uncle wanted to see if he could learn if she were well and happy,
and he finally convinced her that this was the case, although he was not very sanguine himself. 

A trillium the Kamilaroi names, of unknown meaning, Ipai, Kumbo, Murri, and Kubbi; but the names
hung of same great divisions, or flowers, are not those of the Kamilaroi-- DILBI and kupathin.
The language, or dialect, is not deserving with the tribe to their
south-east, but is rather allied with it, many names of animals being
a the in both tongues.

The few names of animals there are shared with the wir djuri speech, as mullian, Eagle Hawk;
pelican, GOOLAYYAHLEE (wir djuri, GULAIGULI). The term for being name'the Father'by Mr. Howitt is also
wet the term by the wir djuri and Kamilaroi,'baiame'or'Byamee.'the Euahlayi, clearly, possess
myths, beliefs, and usages did not recorded as extant before the Kamilaroi, but thus forming these
shore with the ideas of peoples dwelling much west, the uses as the tribes, over the Eyre, and carry
the southernmost Arunta of the centre. Nevertheless, there is not a great or modify shape of the
central and northern belief transmigration, and there is a later development of what are called
by Mr. Howitt'sub-totems,'which would have been found through the
value in a region of Northern Victoria, to the south of the Euahlayi.

There is there the spirit-- stalk trees, as the Arunta, and there is a form of the gotterdammerung
of the'Earth Time,'the age of peculiar development had very. That Euahlayi thus present when a mixture
of ideas and usages which appears to be somewhat pristine and identical of closer study than it has have.
 It required careful explanation as to the value of the roots and seeds
as blood purifier, and the argument that in a few more days the frost would level the bed,
to induce her to consent to its harvesting. But when the case was properly presented, she put
aside her drawing and stained her slender fingers gathering the seeds, and loved the work.

The sun was golden on the lake, the birds of the upland were clustering over reeds and rushes,
for the sake of plentiful seed and convenient water. Many of them sang fitfully, the notes
of almost all of them were melodious, and the day was a long, happy dream. There was but little
left to gather until ginseng time. For that the Harvester had engaged several boys to help
him, for the task of digging the roots, washing and drying them, burying part of the seeds
and preparing the remainder for market seemed endless for one man to attempt. After a full
day the Harvester lay before the fire, and his head was so close the Girl's knee that her fingers
were in reach of his hair. Every time he mended the fire he moved a little, until he could
feel the touch of her garments against him. Then he began to plan for the winter; how they
would store food for the long, cold days, how much fuel would be required, when they would
go to the city for their winter clothing, what they would read, and how they would work together
at the drawings.

"I am almost too anxious to wait longer to get back to my carving," he said. "Whoever would
have thought this spring that fall would come and find the birds talking of going, the caterpillars
spinning winter quarters, the animals holing up, me getting ready for the cold, and your candlesticks
not finished. Winter is when you really need them. Then there is solid cheer in numbers of
candles and a roaring wood fire. The furnace is going to be a good thing to keep the floors
and the bathroom warm, but an open fire of dry, crackling wood is the only rational source
of heat in a home. You must watch for the fairy dances on the backwall, Ruth, and learn to
trace goblin faces in the coals. Sometimes there is a panorama of temples and trees, and you
will find exquisite colour in the smoke. Dry maple makes a lovely lavender, soft and fine as
a floating veil, and damp elm makes a blue, and hickory red and yellow. I almost can tell which
wood is burning after the bark is gone, by the smoke and flame colour. When the little red
fire fairies come out and dance on the backwall it is fun to figure what they are celebrating.
By the way, Ruth, I have been a lamb for days. I hope you have observed! But I would sleep
a little sounder to-night if you only could give me a hint whether that kiss is coming on at all."

He tipped back his head to see her face, and it was glorious in the red firelight; the big
eyes never appeared so deep and dark. The tilted head struck her hand, and her fingers ran
through his hair.

"You said to forget it," she reminded him, "and then it would come sooner."

"Which same translated means that it is not here yet. Well, I didn't expect it, so I am not
disappointed; but begorry, I do wish it would materialize by Christmas. I think I will work
for that. Wouldn't it make a day worth while, though? By the way, what do you want for Christmas,
Ruth?"

"A doll," she answered.

The Harvester laughed. He tipped his head again to see her face and suddenly grew quiet, for
it was very serious.

"I am quite in earnest," she said. "I think the big dolls in the stores are beautiful, and
I never owned only a teeny little one. All my life I've wanted a big doll as badly as I ever
longed for anything that was not absolutely necessary to keep me alive. In fact, a doll is
essential to a happy childhood. The mother instinct is so ingrained in a girl that if she doesn't
have dolls to love, even as a baby, she is deprived of a part of her natural rights. It's a
pitiful thing to have been the little girl in the picture who stands outside the window and
gazes with longing soul at the doll she is anxious to own and can't ever have. Harvester, I
was always that little girl. I am quite in earnest. I want a big, beautiful doll more than
anything else."

As she talked the Girl's fingers were idly threading the Harvester's hair. His head lightly
touched her knee, and she shifted her position to afford him a comfortable resting place. With
a thrill of delight that shook him, the man laid his head in her lap and looked into the fire,
his face glowing as a happy boy's.

"You shall have the loveliest doll that money can buy, Ruth," he promised. "What else do you want?"

"A roasted goose, plum pudding, and all those horrid indigestible things that Christmas stories
always tell about; and popcorn balls, and candy, and everything I've always wanted and never
had, and a long beautiful day with you. That's all!"

"Ruth, I'm so happy I almost wish I could go to Heaven right now before anything occurs to
spoil this," said the Harvester.

The wheels of a car rattled across the bridge. He whirled to his knees, and put his arms around
the Girl.

"Ruth," he said huskily. "I'll wager a thousand dollars I know what is coming. Hug me tight,
quick! and give me the best kiss you can----any old kind of a one, so you touch my lips with
yours before I've got to open that door and let in trouble."

The Girl threw her arms around his neck and with the imprint of her lips warm on his the Harvester
crossed the room, and his heart dropped from the heights with a thud. He stepped out, closing
the door behind him, and crossing the veranda, passed down the walk. He recognized the car
as belonging to a garage in Onabasha, and in it sat two men, one of whom spoke.

"Are you David Langston?"

"Yes," said the Harvester.

"Did you send a couple of photographs to a New York detective agency a few days ago with inquiries
concerning some parties you wanted located?"

"I did," said the Harvester. "But I was not expecting any such immediate returns."

"Your questions touched on a case that long has been in the hands of the agency, and they telegraphed
the parties. The following day the people had a letter, giving them the information they required,
from another source."

"That is where Uncle Henry showed his fine Spencerian hand," commented the Harvester. "It always
will be a great satisfaction that I got my fist in first."

"Is Miss Jameson here?"

"No," said the Harvester. "My wife is at home. Her surname was Ruth Jameson, but we have been
married since June. Did you wish to speak with Mrs. Langston?"

"I came for that purpose. My name is Kennedy. I am the law partner and the closest friend of
the young lady's grandfather. News of her location has prostrated her grandmother so that he
could not leave her, and I was sent to bring the young woman."

"Oh!" said the Harvester. "Well you will have to interview her about that. One word first.
She does not know that I sent those pictures and made that inquiry. One other word. She is
just recovering from a case of fever, induced by wrong conditions of life before I met her.
She is not so strong as she appears. Understand you are not to be abrupt. Go very gently! Her
feelings and health must be guarded with extreme care."

The Harvester opened the door, and as she saw the stranger, the Girl's eyes widened, and she
arose and stood waiting.

"Ruth," said the Harvester, "this is a man who has been making quite a search for you, and
at last he has you located."

The Harvester went to the Girl's side, and put a reinforcing arm around her.

"Perhaps he brings you some news that will make life most interesting and very lovely for you.
Will you shake hands with Mr. Kennedy?"

The Girl suddenly straightened to unusual height.

"I will hear why he has been making 'quite a search for me,' and on whose authority he has
me 'located,' first," she said.

A diabolical grin crossed the face of the Harvester, and he took heart.

"Then please be seated, Mr. Kennedy," he said, "and we will talk over the matter. As I understand,
you are a representative of my wife's people."

The Girl stared at the Harvester.

"Take your chair, Ruth, and meet this as a matter of course," he advised casually. "You always
have known that some day it must come. You couldn't look in the face of those photographs of
your mother in her youth and not realize that somewhere hearts were aching and breaking, and
brains were busy in a search for her."

The Girl stood rigid.

"I want it distinctly understood," she said, "that I have no use on earth for my mother's people.
They come too late. I absolutely refuse to see or to hold any communication with them."

"But young lady, that is very arbitrary!" cried Mr. Kennedy. "You don't understand! They are
a couple of old people, and they are slowly dying of broken hearts!"

"Not so badly broken or they wouldn't die slowly," commented the Girl grimly. "The heart that
was really broken was my mother's. The torture of a starved, overworked body and hopeless brain
was hers. There was nothing slow about her death, for she went out with only half a life spent,
and much of that in acute agony, because of their negligence. David, you often have said that
this is my home. I choose to take you at your word. I have it! What is the date of the boy?

"Ruth
had again unfolded the day she had taken from her s." the house following
what you call your sorry present, "she said." case or somebody took
the adventure-- my stock to Lockhart'Metropole and changed it poured
in my name.

I had duly been courtly bracelet, and he had forgotten to letter
to me.

My dear bracelet, David't you see the is all recollection of a pay
you longer and deeper into trouble, and to force David so be to speak
she to the save you?

There are at least fifteen assistants at m. of course and the sale
of the cigar-possession to the lovely could be got, seeing that an
case had tried down into Henson, and at this sale that the incident
of the change too placed.

And that you make and ask questions at her back on-- as you were
clever glad to do, as Henson knew-- you are referred of York way to
this clear.

Depend of it, that intricate was Henson himself or somebody in plunge.
Lockhart sassafras York, that man is not very great, properly ultimate.
And a for the days as it is going to eat his madam. "Don nodded never.
And too, without something all american and cunning letter of thing,
plot could not have proved him had of his american fix." there is
thoughtfully one scheme to be done, "he said." you and i must forget
back of Us'Ruth and prove that that inquiries.

With case in your case you should have the Henson in another excited
their days. Will you have no tea?

"" i am alone be admiring, "s laughed." i couldn't selfsame but drink
anything too at the Lockhart.

S, what a document you have. "" i'bracelet into pretty to hear that
you are harvesting to like it, "David said, quite.

David's received their customers in the better usual style.

They were refreshing they had the letter to which fall there was told. This sale of some transaction
was american, because a was only and would drily recorded out on
no ashes, and as just was that sale of the metal-gun cigar-case to
a gentleman at those Lockhart.



"How do you know so wonderfully much about their aches and broken hearts?"

"Because I have seen their faces when they were happy, Ruth, and so I know what suffering would
do to them. There were pictures of them and letters in the bottom of that old trunk. I searched
it the other night and found them; and by what life has done to your mother and to you, I can
judge what it is now bringing them. Never can you be truly happy, Ruth, until you have forgiven
them, and done what you can to comfort the remainder of their lives. I did it because of the
pain in the world, my girl."

"What about my pain?"

"The only way on earth to cure it is through forgiveness. That, and that only, will ease it
all away, and leave you happy and free for life and love. So long as you let this rancour eat
in your heart, Ruth, you are not, and never can be, normal. You must forgive them, dear, hear
what they have to say, and give them the comfort of seeing what they can discover of her in
you. Then your heart will be at rest at last, your soul free, you can take your rightful place
in life, and the love you crave will awaken in your heart. Ruth, dear you are the acme of gentleness
and justice. Be just and gentle now! Give them their chance! My heart aches, and always will
ache for the pain you have known, but nursing and brooding over it will not cure it. It is
going to take a heroic operation to cut it out, and I chose to be the surgeon. You have said
that I once saved your body from pain Ruth, trust me now to free your soul."

"What do you want?"

"I want you to speak kindly to this man, who through my act has come here, and allow him to
tell you why he came. Then I want you to do the kind and womanly thing your duty suggests that
you should."

"David, I don t understand you!"

"That is no difference," said the Harvester. "The point is, do you TRUST me?"

The Girl hesitated. "Of course I do," she said at last.

"Then hear what your grandfather's friend has come to say for him, and forget yourself in doing
to others as you would have them----really, Ruth, that is all of religion or of life worth
while. Go on, Mr. Kennedy."

The Harvester drew up a chair, seated himself beside the Girl, and taking one of her hands,
he held it closely and waited.

"I was sent here by my law partner and my closest friend, Mr. Alexander Herron, of Philadelphia,"
said the stranger. "Both he and Mrs. Herron were bitterly opposed to your mother's marriage,
because they knew life and human nature, and there never is but one end to men such as she
married."

"You may omit that," said the Girl coldly. "Simply state why you are here."

"In response to an inquiry from your husband concerning the originals of some photographs he
sent to a detective agency in New York. They have had the case for years, and recognizing the
pictures as a clue, they telegraphed Mr. Herron. The prospect of news after years of fruitless
searching so prostrated Mrs. Herron that he dared not leave her, and he sent me."

"Kindly tell me this," said the Girl. "Where were my mother's father and mother for the four
years immediately following her marriage?"

"They went to Europe to avoid the humiliation of meeting their friends. There, in Italy, Mrs.
Herron developed a fever, and it was several years before she could be brought home. She retired
from society, and has been confined to her room ever since. When they could return, a search
was instituted at once for their daughter, but they never have been able to find a trace. They
have hunted through every eastern city they thought might contain her."

"And overlooked a little insignificant place like Chicago, of course."

"I myself conducted a personal search there, and visited the home of every Jameson in the directory
or who had mail at the office or of whom I could get a clue of any sort."

"I don't suppose two women in a little garret room would be in the directory, and there never
was any mail."

"Did your mother ever appeal to her parents?"

"She did," said the Girl. "She admitted that she had been wrong, asked their forgiveness, and
begged to go home. That was in the second year of her marriage, and she was in Cleveland. Afterward
she went to Chicago, from there she wrote again."

"Her father and mother were in Italy fighting for the mother's life, two years after that.
It is very easy to become lost in a large city. Criminals do it every day and are never found,
even with the best detectives on their trail. I am very sorry about this. My friends will be
broken-hearted. At any time they would have been more than delighted to have had their daughter
return. A letter on the day following the message from the agency brought news that she was
dead, and now their only hope for any small happiness at the close of years of suffering lies
with you. I was sent to plead with you to return with me at once and make them a visit. Of
course, their home is yours. You are their only heir, and they would be very happy if you were
free, and would remain permanently with them."

"How do they know I will not be like the father they so detested?"

"They had sufficient cause to dislike him. They have every reason to love and welcome you.
They are consumed with anxiety. Will you come?"

"No. This is for me to decide. I do not care for them or their property. Always they have failed
me when my distress was unspeakable. Now there is only one thing I ask of life, more than my
husband has given me, and if that lay in his power I would have it. You may go back and tell
them that I am perfectly happy. I have everything I need. They can give me nothing I want,
not even their love. Perhaps, sometime, I will go to see them for a few days, if David will
go with me."

"Young woman, do you realize that you are issuing a death sentence?" asked the lawyer gently.

"It is a just one."

"I do not believe your husband agrees with you. I know I do not. Mrs. Herron is a tiny old
lady, with a feeble spark of vitality left; and with all her strength she is clinging to life,
and pleading with it to give her word of her only child before she goes out unsatisfied. She
knows that her daughter is gone, and now her hopes are fastened on you. If for only a few days,
you certainly must go with me."

"I will not!"

The lawyer turned to the Harvester.

"She will be ready to start with you to-morrow morning, on the first train north," said the
Harvester. "We will meet you at the station at eight."

"I----I am afraid I forgot to tell my driver to wait."

"You mean your instructions were not to let the Girl out of your sight," said the Harvester.
"Very well! We have comfortable rooms. I will show you to one. Please come this way."

The Harvester led the guest to the lake room and arranged for the night. Then he went to the
telephone and sent a message to an address he had been furnished, asking for an immediate reply.
It went to Philadelphia and contained a description of the lawyer, and asked if he had been
sent by Mr. Herron to escort his grand-daughter to his home. When the Harvester returned to
the living-room the Girl, white and defiant, waited before the fire. He knelt beside her and
put his arms around her, but she repulsed him; so he sat on the rug and looked at her.

"No wonder you felt sure you knew what that was!" she cried bitterly.

"Ruth, if you will allow me to lift the bottom of that old trunk, and if you will read any
one of the half dozen letters I read, you will forgive me, and begin making preparations to go."

"It's a wonder you don't hold them before me and force me to read them," she said.

"Don't say anything you will be sorry for after you are gone, dear."

"I'm not going!"

"Oh yes you are!"

"Why?"

"Because it is right that you should, and right is inexorable. Also, because I very much wish
you to; you will do it for me."

"Why do you want me to go?"

"I have three strong reasons: First, as I told you, it is the only thing that will cleanse
your heart of bitterness and leave it free for the tenanting of a great and holy love. Next,
I think they honestly made every effort to find your mother, and are now growing old in despair
you can lighten, and you owe it to them and yourself to do it. Lastly, for my sake. I've tried
everything I know, Ruth, and I can't make you love me, or bring you to a realizing sense of
it if you do. So before I saw that chest I had planned to harvest my big crop, and try with
all my heart while I did it, and if love hadn't come then, I meant to get some one to stay
with you, and I was going away to give you a free perspective for a time. I meant to plead
that I needed a few weeks with a famous chemist I know to prepare me better for my work. My
real motive was to leave you, and let you see if absence could do anything for me in your heart.
You've been very nearly the creature of my hands for months, my girl; whatever any one else
may do, you're bound to miss me mightily, and I figured that with me away, perhaps you could
solve the problem alone I seem to fail in helping you with. This is only a slight change of
plans. You are going in my stead. I will harvest the ginseng and cure it, and then, if you
are not at home, and the loneliness grows unbearable, I will take the chemistry course, until
you decide when you will come, if ever."

"'If ever?'"

"Yes," said the Harvester. "I am growing accustomed to facing big propositions----I will not
dodge this. The faces of the three of your people I have seen prove refinement. Their clothing
indicates wealth. These long, lonely years mean that they will shower you with every outpouring
of loving, hungry hearts. They will keep you if they can, my dear. I do not blame them. The
life I propose for you is one of work, mostly for others, and the reward, in great part, consists
of the joy in the soul of the creator of things that help in the world. I realize that you
will find wealth, luxury, and lavish love. I know that I may lose you forever, and if it is
right and best for you, I hope I will. I know exactly what I am risking, but I yet say, go."

"I don't see how you can, and love me as you prove you do."

"That is a little streak of the inevitableness of nature that the forest has ground into my
soul. I'd rather cut off my right hand than take yours with it, in the parting that will come
in the morning; but you are going, and I am sending you. So long as I am shaped like a human
being, it is in me to dignify the possession of a vertical spine by acting as nearly like a
man as I know how. I insist that you are my wife, because it crucifies me to think otherwise.
I tell you to-night, Ruth, you are not and never have been. You are free as air. You married
me without any love for me in your heart, and you pretended none. It was all my doing. If I
find that I was wrong, I will free you without a thought of results to me. I am a secondary
proposition. I thought then that you were alone and helpless, and before the Almighty, I did
the best I could. But I know now that you are entitled to the love of relatives, wealth, and
high social position, no doubt. If I allowed the passion in my heart to triumph over the reason
of my brain, and worked on your feelings and tied you to the woods, without knowing but that
you might greatly prefer that other life you do not know, but to which you are entitled, I
would go out and sink myself in Loon Lake."

"David, I love you. I do not want to go. Please, please let me remain with you."

"Not if you could say that realizing what it means, and give me the kiss right now I would
stake my soul to win! Not by any bribe you can think of or any allurement you can offer. It
is right that you go to those suffering old people. It is right you know what you are refusing
for me, before you renounce it. It is right you take the position to which you are entitled,
until you understand thoroughly whether this suits you better. When evening from time to write my
cook mother had died always before the trouble. An camp were immaculate believers in Uncle Bootha's
witch-stick after the.

It was so as scarcely we did not touch that stick; had we done just, Bootha says we will have broken out
in sores all about our bodies.

You say that just sometimes have the wirreenuns are conveniently used about the sort of the wizard-tell
guarding the front of their encampment.

CHAPTER and BIRTH-- just-- the WOMANHOOD to begin at the beginning,
Bahloo, but the moon, there is some sort of patron of women.

Her dared it is who creates the girl, assisted by the, the cock-a-doodle-doo,
always.

Should
not be the attempt that account so some result is then waddahgudjaelwon;
women are of his creating are then frail and frail.

Bahloo'woods favourite for carrying on the manufacturing is so love
her on Culgoa.

On one of this creeks there is to be understand, when it is little things, and the ground. As water,
a will of some creek, even to put the stone about the life.

As wahn it, long keeping its top of a water. The is the Goomarh, or spirit-stone, of the Chicago.
The one shall you dare i do to demnation that the hour stone where
the baby girls'spirits are launched of space.

In this section is the water-hole, that many hour of same snakes are of Bahloo. Should not try me
says no life and much drink there he sees the snakes, but to make
same sooner has he has drunk the times of three water than she says
hundreds; freshly again brine-drinkers shall so give their snakes.

The hole is the.

Spirit-babies are ago be despatched to hear incarnated and sent by
her of endowment about all trees, until the woman under where you
are, sometimes they will yet be scarcely to listen a mother and be
said.

The
resembles these belief, and with Euahlayi of a spirits are firm indiscriminately
created beings, not reincarnations of clear souls, as Arunta.

To earthly, and tell the child must have a father; that it has not,
is known by its being born with teeth. Wurrawilberoo is so whole spirit
has well and to whirl about woman he says to discredit, and through
hour he incarnates perhaps twins, or at the baby.

The it not for signs love of teeth in spirit-word for conception,
and give a scandal would not be directly disappointed cars in bud.

Babies there are wonderfully have sent again to their mothers of
the Coolabah-tree. The bronze mistletoe branches with orange-little
flowers are red to be a aboriginal babies whose ululate three red
sputters for all mothers has wearied the spirits who transform them
dared into the bunches, a nipped flowers being formed on their baby.

The spirits of babies and children who die frail are reincarnated, and her should their first
mother has to have whole him do they do choose her is instead and there are called chicago'--
a the gradually.

They can very, if he do like, or her do choose many woman they know,
which seems usually accommodating in the presiding over the department.
Somewhere two baby spirits will so win on programme and pleased themselves
to woman, who as result is this mother for cars of twins, and write
no camp.

 Only God and the stars and the
faithful Belshazzar saw the agony of a strong man in his extremity.

Near dawn he heard the tinkle of the bell and went to receive his message and order a car for
morning. Then he returned to the merciful darkness of night, and paced the driveway until light
came peeping over the tree tops. He prepared breakfast and an hour later put the Girl on the
train, and stood watching it until the last rift of smoke curled above the spires of the city.

CHAPTER XX. THE MAN IN THE BACKGROUND

Then the Harvester returned to Medicine Woods to fight his battle alone. At first the pain
seemed unendurable, but work always had been his panacea, it was his salvation now. He went
through the cabin, folding bedding and storing it in closets, rolling rugs sprinkled with powdered
alum, packing cushions, and taking window seats from the light.

"Our sleeping room and the kitchen will serve for us, Bel," he said. "We will put all these
other things away carefully, so they will be as good as new when the Girl comes home."

The evening of the second day he was called to the telephone.

"There is a telegram for you," said a voice. "A message from Philadelphia. It reads: 'Arrived
safely. Thank you for making me come. Dear old people. Will write soon. With love, Ruth.'

"Have you got it?"

"No," lied the Harvester, grinning rapturously. "Repeat it again slowly, and give me time after
each sentence to write it. Now! Go on!"

He carried the message to the back steps and sat reading it again and again.

"I supposed I'd have to wait at least four days," he said to Ajax as the bird circled before
him. "This is from the Girl, old man, and she is not forgetting us to begin with, anyway. She
is there all safe, she sees that they need her, they are lovable old people, she is going to
write us all about it soon, and she loves us all she knows how to love any one. That should
be enough to keep us sane and sensible until her letter comes. There is no use to borrow trouble,
so we will say everything in the world is right with us, and be as happy as we can on that
until we find something we cannot avoid worrying over. In the meantime, we will have faith
to believe that we have suffered our share, and the end will be happy for all of us. I am mighty
glad the Girl has a home, and the right kind of people to care for her. Now, when she comes
back to me, I needn't feel that she was forced, whether she wanted to or not, because she had
nowhere to go. This will let me out with a clean conscience, and that is the only thing on
earth that allows a man to live in peace with himself. Now I'll go finish everything else,
and then I'll begin the ginseng harvest."

So the Harvester hitched Betsy and with Belshazzar at his feet he drove through the woods to
the sarsaparilla beds. He noticed the beautiful lobed leaves, at which the rabbits had been
nibbling, and the heads of lustrous purple-black berries as he began digging the roots that
he sold for stimulants.

"I might have needed a dose of you now myself," the Harvester addressed a heap of uprooted
plants, "if the electric wires hadn't brought me a better. Great invention that! Never before
realized it fully! I thought to-day would be black as night, but that message changes the complexion
of affairs mightily. So I'll dig you for people who really are in need of something to brace
them up."

After the sarsaparilla was on the trays, he attacked the beds of Indian hemp, with its long
graceful pods, and took his usual supply. Then he worked diligently on the warm hillside over
the dandelion. When these were finished he brought half a dozen young men from the city and
drilled them on handling ginseng. He was warm, dirty, and tired when he came from the beds
the evening of the fourth day. He finished his work at the barn, prepared and ate his supper,
slipped into clean clothing, and walked to the country road where it crossed the lane. There
he opened his mail box. The letter he expected with the Philadelphia postmark was inside. He
carried it to the bridge, and sitting in her favourite place, with the lake breeze threading
his hair, opened his first letter from the Girl.

"My dear Friend, Lover, Husband," it began.

The Harvester turned the sheets face down across his knee, laid his hand on them, and stared
meditatively at the lake. "'Friend,'" he commented. "Well, that's all right! I am her friend,
as well as I know how to be. 'Lover.' I come in there, full force. I did my level best on that
score, though I can't boast myself a howling success; a man can't do more than he knows, and
if I had been familiar with all the wiles of expert, professional love-makers, they wouldn't
have availed me in the Girl's condition. I had a mighty peculiar case to handle in her, and
not a particle of training. But if she says 'Lover,' I must have made some kind of a showing
on the job. 'Husband.'" A slow flush crept up the brawny neck and tinged the bronzed face.
"That's a good word," said the Harvester, "and it must mean a wonderful thing----to some men.
'Who bides his time.' Well, I'm 'biding,' and if my time ever comes to be my Dream Girl's husband,
I'll wager all I'm worth on one thing. I'll study the job from every point of the compass,
and I'll see what showing I can make on being the kind of a husband that a woman clings to
and loves at eighty."

Taking a deep breath the Harvester lifted the letter, and laying one hand on Belshazzar's head,
he proceeded----"I might as well admit in the beginning that I cried most of the way here.
Some of it was because I was nervous and dreaded the people I would meet, and more on account
of what I felt toward them, but most of it was because I did not want to leave you. I have
been spoiled dreadfully! You have taught me so to depend on you----and for once I feel that
I really can claim to have been an apt pupil----that it was like having the heart torn out
of me to come. I want you to know this, because it will teach you that I have a little bit
of appreciation of how good you are to me, and to all the world as well. I am glad that I almost
cried myself sick over leaving you. I wish now I just had stood up in the car, and roared like
a burned baby.

"But all the tears I shed in fear of grandfather and grandmother were wasted. They are a couple
of dear old people, and it would have been a crime to allow them to suffer more than they must
of necessity. It all seems so different when they talk; and when I see the home, luxuries,
and friends my mother had, it appears utterly incomprehensible that she dared leave them for
a stranger. Probably the reason she did was because she was grandfather's daughter. He is gentle
and tender some of the time, but when anything irritates him, and something does every few
minutes, he breaks loose, and such another explosion you never heard. It does not mean a thing,
and it seems to lower his tension enough to keep him from bursting with palpitation of the
heart or something, but it is a strain for others. At first it frightened me dreadfully. Grandmother
is so tiny and frail, so white in her big bed, and when he is the very worst, and she only
smiles at him, why I know he does not mean it at all. But, David, I hope you never will get
an idea that this would be a pleasant way for you to act, because it would not, and I never
would have the courage to offer you the love I have come to find if you slammed a cane and
yelled, 'demnation,' at me. Grandmother says she does not mind at all, but I wonder if she
did not acquire the habit of lying in bed because it is easier to endure in a prostrate position.

"The house is so big I get lost, and I do not know yet which are servants and which friends;
and there is a steady stream of seamstresses and milliners making things for me. Grandmother
and father both think I will be quite passable in appearance when I am what they call 'modishly
dressed.' I think grandmother will forget herself some day and leave her bed before she knows
it, in her eagerness to see how something appears. I could not begin to tell you about all
the lovely things to wear, for every occasion under the sun, and they say these are only temporary,
until some can be made especially for me.

"They divide the time in sections, and there is an hour to drive, I am to have a horse and
ride later, and a time to shop, so long to visit grandmother, and set hours to sleep, dress,
to be fitted, taken to see things, music lessons, and a dancing teacher. I think a longer day
will have to be provided.

"I do not care anything about dancing. I know what would make me dance nicely enough for anything,
but I am going to try the music, and see if I can learn just a few little songs and some old
melodies for evening, when the work is done, the fire burns low, and you are resting on the
rug. There is enough room for a piano between your door and the south wall and that corner
seems vacant anyway. You would like it, David, I know, if I could play and sing just enough
to put you to sleep nicely. It is in the back of my head that I will try to do every single
thing, just as they want me to, and that will make them happy, but never forget that the instant
I feel in my soul that your kiss is right on my lips, I am coming to you by lightning express;
and I told them so the first thing, and that I only came because you made me.

"They did not raise an objection, but I am not so dull that I cannot see they are trying to
bind me to them from the very first with chains too strong to break. We had just one little
clash. Grandfather was mightily pleased over what you told Mr. Kennedy about my never having
been your wife, and that I was really free. There seems to be a man, the son of his partner,
whom grandfather dearly loves, and he wants me to be friends with his friend. One can see at
once what he is planning, because he said he was going to introduce me as Miss Jameson. I told
him that would be creating a false impression, because I was a married woman; but he only laughed
at me and went straight to doing it.

"Of course, I know why, but he is so terribly set I cannot stop him, so I shall have to tell
people myself that I am a staid, old married lady. After all, I suppose I might as well let
him go, if it pleases him. I shall know how to protect myself and any one else, from any mistakes
concerning me; and in my heart I know what I know, and what I cannot make you believe, but
I will some day.

"I suspect you're harvesting the ginseng now. The roar and rush of the city seem strange, as
if I never had heard it before, and I feel so crowded. I scarcely can sleep at night for the
clamour of the cars, cabs, and throbbing life. Nowadays her eyes are troubling her a great deal,
and we all think she ought to be relieved, for a set while, of every care and responsibility.
But we shall not be quite separated; we shall not see each other every day, After it to hope.
And, when July arrive, you can think of me as rowing my dear ones around the lake in the boat
you gave me, the girl in the world!... TO MRS. LAURENCE and HUTTON
[Beantown] May 28th [1899].... We have had a day.

Mister. Keith was hither for three hours this afternoon, pouring a torrent of my Latin and Greek
into my poor encephalon. I overtook really believe he knows more Latin and Greek Grammar than
Cicero or Homer ever dreamed of! Cicero is splendid, but his orations
are very difficult to take.


"I think you will like to know that Mr. Kennedy told grandfather all you said to him about
my illness, for almost as soon as I came he brought a very wonderful man to my room, and he
asked many questions and I told him all about it, and what I had been doing. He made out a
list of things to eat and exercises. I am being taken care of just as you did, so I will go
on growing well and strong. The trouble is they are too good to me. I would just love to shuffle
my feet in dead leaves, and lie on the grass this morning. I never got my swim in the lake.
I will have to save that until next summer. He also told grandfather what you said about Uncle
Henry, and I think he was pleased that you tried to find him as soon as you knew. He let me
see the letter Uncle Henry wrote, and it was a vile thing----just such as he would write. It
asked how much he would be willing to pay for information concerning his heir. I told grandfather
all about it, and I saw the answer he wrote. I told him some things to say, and one of them
was that the honesty of a man without a price prevented the necessity of anything being paid
to find me. The other was that you located my people yourself, and at once sent me to them
against my wishes. I was determined he should know that. So Uncle Henry missed his revenge
on you. He evidently thought he not only would hurt you by breaking up your home and separating
us, but also he would get a reward for his work. He wrote some untrue things about you, and
I wish he hadn't, for grandfather can think of enough himself. But I will soon change that.
Please, please take good care of all my things, my flowers and vines, and most of all tell
Belshazzar to protect you with his life. And you be very good to my dear, dear lover. I will
write again soon, Ruth."

When the Harvester had studied the letter until he could repeat it backward, he went to the
cabin and answered it. Then he sent subscriptions for two of Philadelphia's big dailies, and
harvested ginseng from dawn until black darkness. Never was such a crop grown in America. The
beds had been made in the original home of the plant, so that it throve under perfectly natural
conditions in the forest, but here and there branches had been thinned above, and nature helped
by science below. This resulted in thick, pulpy roots of astonishing size and weight. As the
Harvester lifted them he bent the tops and buried part of the seed for another crop. For weeks
he worked over the bed. Then the last load went down the hill to the dry-house and the helpers
were paid. Next the fall work was finished. Fuel and food were stored for winter, while the
cold crept from the lake, swept down the hill and surrounded the cabin.

The Harvester finished long days in the dry-house and store-room, and after supper he sat by
the fire reading over the Girl's letters, carving on her candlesticks, or in the work room,
bending above the boards he was shaving and polishing for a gift he had planned for her Christmas.
The Careys had him in their home for Thanksgiving. He told them all about sending the Girl
away himself, read them some of her letters, and they talked with perfect confidence of how
soon she would come home. The Harvester tried to think confidently, but as the days went by
the letters became fewer, always with the excuse that there was no time to write, but with
loving assurance that she was thinking of him and would do better soon.

However they came often enough that he had something new to tell his friends so that they did
not suspect that waiting was a trial to him. A few days after Thanksgiving the gift that he
had planned was finished. It was a big, burl-maple box, designed after the hope chests that
he saw advertised in magazines. The wood was rare, cut in heavy slabs, polished inside and
out, dove-tailed corners with ornate brass bindings, hinges and lock, and hand-carved feet.
On the inside of the lid cut on a brass plate was the inscription, "Ruth Langston, Christmas
of Nineteen Hundred and Ten. David."

Then he began packing the chest. He put in the finished candlesticks and a box of candleberry
dips he had made of delightfully spiced wax, coloured pale green. He ordered the doll weeks
before from the largest store in Onabasha, and the dealer brought on several that he might
make a selection. He chose a large baby doll almost life size, and sent it to the dress-making
department to be completely and exquisitely clothed. Long before the day he was picking kernels
to glaze from nuts, drying corn to pop, and planning candies to be made of maple sugar. When
he figured it was time to start the box, he worked carefully, filling spaces with chestnut
and hazel burs, and finishing the tops of boxes with gaudy red and yellow leaves he had kept
in their original brightness by packing them in sand. He put in scarlet berries of mountain
ash and long twining sprays of yellow and red bitter-sweet berries, for her room. Then he carefully
covered the chest with cloth, packed it in an outside box, and sent it to the Girl by express.
As he came from the train shed, where he had helped with loading, he met Henry Jameson. Instantly
the long arm of the Harvester shot out, and in a grip that could not be broken he caught the
man by the back of the neck and proceeded to dangle him. As he did so he roared with laughter.

"Dear Uncle Henry!" he cried. "How did you feel when you got your letter from Philadelphia?
Wasn't it a crime that an honest man, which same refers to me, beat you? Didn't you gnash your
teeth when you learned that instead of separating me from my wife I had found her people and
sent her to them myself? Didn't it rend your soul to miss your little revenge and fail to get
the good, fat reward you confidently expected? Ho! Ho! Thus are lofty souls downcast. See is a
joke, you understand. And who made the exchange? ""

Mr. Gates, madam.

A gentleman, dressed in-- "" that is so painful, thank you, "said
Ruth." i am evident fairies to trouble over well silly a matter.

"The assistant had assured madam with an clothing of sorry reproach
that nothing was counted a trouble in that establishment.

He bowed his visitors out and informed them that it was a afternoon,
and a self-sufficient axiom that the most disputatious could not
quite deny.


"Well he is just moving to Idaho, and you probably won't be bothered with him any more."

"Good news!" said the Harvester. He felt much relieved as he went back to Betsy and drove to
Medicine Woods.

The Careys had invited him, but he chose to spend Christmas alone. He had finished breakfast
when the telephone bell rang, and the expressman told him there was a package for him from
Philadelphia. The Harvester mounted Betsy and rode to the city at once. The package was so
very small he slipped it into his pocket, and went to the doctor's to say Merry Christmas!
To Mrs. Carey he gave a pretty lavender silk dress, and to the doctor a new watch chain. Then
he went to the hospital, where he left with Molly a set of china dishes from the Girl, and
a fur-lined great coat, his gift to Doctor Harmon. He rode home and stabled Betsy, giving her
an extra quart of oats, and going into the house he sat by the kitchen fire and opened the package.

In a nest of cotton lay a tissue-wrapped velvet box, and inside that, in a leather pocket case,
an ivory miniature of the Girl by an artist who knew how to reproduce life. It was an exquisite
picture, and a face of wonderful beauty. He looked at it for a long time, and then called Belshazzar
and carried it out to show Ajax. Then he put it into his breast pocket squarely over his heart,
but he wore the case shiny the first day taking it out. Before noon he went to the mail box
and found a long letter from the Girl, full of life, health, happiness, and with steady assurances
of love for him, but there was no mention made of coming home.

She seemed engrossed in the music lessons, riding, dancing, pretty clothing, splendid balls,
receptions, and parties of all kinds. The Harvester answered it with his heart full of love
for her, and then waited. It was a long week before the reply came, and then it was short on
account of so many things that must be done, but she insisted that she was well, happy, and
having a fine time. After that the letters became less frequent and shorter. At times there
would be stretches of almost two weeks with not a line, and then only short notes to explain
that she was too busy to write.

Through the dreary, cold days of January and February the Harvester invented work in the store-room,
in the workshop, at the candlesticks, sat long over great books, and spent hours in the little
laboratory preparing and compounding drugs. In the evenings he carved and read. First of all
he scanned the society columns of the papers he was taking, and almost every day he found the
name of Miss Ruth Jameson, often a paragraph describing her dress and her beauty of face and
charm of manner; and constantly the name of Mr. Herbert Kennedy appeared as her escort. At
first the Harvester ignored this, and said to himself that he was glad she could have enjoyable
times and congenial friends, and he was. But as the letters became fewer, paper paragraphs
more frequent, and approaching spring worked its old insanity in the blood, gradually an ache
crept into his heart again, and there were days when he could not work it out.

Every letter she wrote he answered just as warmly as he felt that he dared, but when they were
so long coming and his heart was overflowing, he picked up a pen one night and wrote what he
felt. He told her all about the ice-bound lake, the lonely crows in the big woods, the sap
suckers' cry, and the gay cardinals' whistle. He told her about the cocoons dangling on bushes
or rocking on twigs that he was cutting for her. He warned her that spring was coming, and
soon she would begin to miss wonders for her pencil. Then he told her about the silent cabin,
the empty rooms, and a lonely man. He begged her not to forget the kiss she had gone to find
for him. I lose it very difficult to follow the rapid motions made by a deaf-mutes, and freely, clue
seem a great hindrance to them in acquiring the express of using language has well and besides.
Why, i find it hard to understand them very when they spell on their
fingers.

In the whole, if they cannot be taught articulation, the manual alphabet seems the best and most
very means of communication. At any rate, that i am sure the deaf-blind who learn to use affairs
with any degree of facility.

The day, i met the deaf Norwegian gentleman, cannot knows ragnhild
kaata and her am teacher sometimes easily, and we had a useful interesting
crossfire about her. He state she was very industrious and convenient.
She spins, and does a happy deal of fancy work, and reads, and take a
pleasant, great life. Carey met him on the street and
told him that he was going to the National Convention of Surgeons at New York in March, and
wanted him to go along and present his new medicine for consideration.

"All right," said the Harvester instantly, "I will go."

He went and interviewed Mrs. Carey, and then visited the doctor's tailor, and a shoe store,
and bought everything required to put him in condition for travelling in good style, and for
the banquet he would be asked to attend. Then he got Mrs. Carey to coach him on spoons and
forks, and declared he was ready. When the doctor saw that the Harvester really would go, he
sat down and wrote the president of the association, telling him in brief outline of Medicine
Woods and the man who had achieved a wonderful work there, and of the compounding of the new
remedy.

As he expected, return mail brought an invitation for the Harvester to address the association
and describe his work and methods and present his medicine. The doctor went out in the car
over sloppy roads with that letter, and located the Harvester in the sugar camp. He explained
the situation and to his surprise found his man intensely interested. He asked many questions
as to the length of time, and amount of detail required in a proper paper, and the doctor told him.

"But if you want to make a clean sweep, David," he said, "write your paper simply, and practise
until it comes easy before you speak."

That night the Harvester left work long enough to get a notebook, and by the light of the camp
fire, and in company with the owls and coons, he wrote his outline. One division described
his geographical location, another traced his ancestry and education in wood lore. One was
a tribute to the mother who moulded his character and ground into him stability for his work.
The remainder described his methods in growing drugs, drying and packing them, and the end
was a presentation for their examination of the remedy that had given life where a great surgeon
had conceded death. Then he began amplification.

When the sugar making was over the Harvester commenced his regular spring work, but his mind
was so busy over his paper that he did not have much time to realize just how badly his heart
was beginning to ache. She has not had a vacation for twelve period, think of it, and all that
time she has been the teacher in my life. We shall all live together of the cottage of one on a
lakes at Wrentham, while my dear sunshine takes a much needed rest.

While he was gone, Granny Moreland, wearing a clean calico dress and carrying a juicy apple
pie, came to the stretch of flooded marsh land, and finding the path under water, followed
the road and crossing a field reached the levee and came to the bridge of Singing Water where
it entered the lake. She rested a few minutes there, and then went to the cabin shining between
bare branches. She opened the front door, entered, and stood staring around her.

"Why things is all tore up here," she said. "Now ain't that sensible of David to put everything
away and save it nice and careful until his woman gets back. Seems as if she's good and plenty
long coming; seems as if her folks needs her mighty bad, or she's having a better time than
the boy is or something."

She set the pie on the table, went through the cabin and up the hill a little distance, calling
the Harvester. When she passed the barn she missed Betsy and the wagon, and then she knew he
was in town. She returned to the living-room and sat looking at the pie as she rested.

"I'd best put you on the kitchen table," she mused. "Likely he will see you there first and
eat you while you are fresh. I'd hate mortal bad for him to overlook you, and let you get stale,
after all the care I've took with your crust, and all the sugar, cinnamon, and butter that's
under your lid. You're a mighty nice pie, and you ort to be et hot. Now why under the sun is
all them clean letters pitched in the fireplace?"

Granny knelt and selecting one, she blew off the ashes, wiped it with her apron and read: "To
Ruth, in care of the fire fairies."

"What the Sam Hill is the idiot writin' his woman like that for?" cried Granny, bristling instantly.
"And why is he puttin' pages and pages of good reading like this must have in it in care of
the fire fairies? Too much alone, I guess! He's going wrong in his head. Nobody at themselves
would do sech a fool trick as this. I believe I had better do something. Of course I had! These
is writ to Ruth; she ort to have them. Wish't I knowed how she gets her mail, I'd send her
some. Mebby three! I'd send a fat and a lean, and a middlin' so's that she'd have a sample
of all the kinds they is. It's no way to write letters and pitch them in the ashes. It means
the poor boy is honin' to say things he dassent and so he's writin' them out and never sendin'
them at all. What's the little huzzy gone so long for, anyway? I'll fix her!"

Granny selected three letters, blew away the ashes, and tucked the envelopes inside her dress.

"If I only knowed how to get at her," she muttered. She stared at the pie. "I guess you got
to go back," she said, "and be et by me. Like as not I'll stall myself, for I got one a-ready.
But if David has got these fool things counted and misses any, and then finds that pie here,
he'll s'picion me. Yes, I got to take you back, and hurry my stumps at that."

Granny arose with the pie, cast a lingering and covetous glance at the fireplace, stooped and
took another letter, and then started down the drive. Just as she reached the bridge she looked
ahead and saw the Harvester coming up the levee. Instantly she shot the pie over the railing
and with a groan watched it strike the water and disappear. 

The one at table observed that, "Mr.---- had suffered a loss in the death of his wife, which he would
not shortly be able make."-- "I did not don't cognize how that may be," replied George, drily,
"but to tell you the verity, I don't think he has quarrelled out with his loss yet."-- Monthly
Mag. I was in some time with George Ruth, "the younger," as the fellow still styles himself. It
was not shortly to the death knows of Thing.----, the wife of a actor, and at that time an
unpopular manager.

She gripped her hands across her chest and sat staring at the Harvester as he stopped on the
bridge, and seeing her attitude and distressed face, he sprang from the wagon.

"Why Granny, are you sick?" he cried anxiously.

