When cloth covers are used the supporting cross-strips should not be over 3 inches wide nor
more than 3 feet apart; sometimes the strips are made to bind the sideboard and ridge together
by means of short pieces of hoop iron or of barrel hoop. These are so placed and nailed as
to hold the upper edge of sideboards and of the central ridge flush with the cross-strips,
thus forming a smooth surface for cloth to rest on and enabling one easily to "knock down"
and remove the frames to facilitate the taking of the plants from the bed to the field and
the storing of the frames for another season.

=Flats for starting seeds.=--Any shallow box may be used or the plants sown directly in the
beds without them, but flats of a uniform size are to be preferred--these will pack well on
the greenhouse shelves; or in the hotbed we make them with 7/8 inch thick ends and 1/2 inch
thick sides and bottom, the latter if of a single board having four half-inch holes for drainage
and in any case having two narrow strips about 1/4 inch thick nailed across their bottoms so
as to allow drainage water to escape freely when the boxes are set on hard, cool floors. Two
or three such boxes, 35-1/2 inches long, 12 inches wide and 3 inches deep, will be sufficient
to start plants enough for an acre. I like to use similar boxes only 4 inches deep for growing
the plants after they are pricked out, particularly if this is to be done in a greenhouse,
as by turning them we can equalize exposure to light and thus distribute the plants in the
field where they are to be set with the least possible disturbance. One would need nearly 60
such boxes for plants enough for an acre. On account of the lessened necessity for watering
when plants are set in beds rather than in boxes, many growers prefer to grow their plants
in that way.

CHAPTER X

Starting Plants

This has been the subject of a vast amount of horticultural writing, and the practice of different
growers, and in different sections, varies greatly. I give the methods I have used successfully,
together with reasons for following them, but it may be well for the reader to modify them
to suit his own conditions and requirements.

=Largest yield.=--Some 45 to 50 days before plants can be safely set in the open field the
flats in which the seed is to be sown should be filled with light, rich, friable soil, it being
important that its surface be made perfectly level, and that it be compact and quite moist,
but not so wet as to pack under pressure. Sow the seed in drills 3/8 inch deep and 2 to 3 inches
apart at the rate of 10 to 20 to the inch; press the soil evenly over them, water and place
in the shade in an even temperature of 80 to 90° F. As soon as the seeds begin to break soil,
which they should do in three to four days, place in full light and temperature of 75 to 80°,
keeping the air rather close so as to avoid necessity of watering. After a few days reduce
the temperature to about 65° and give as much air as possible. Some growers press a short piece
of 2-inch joist into the soil of the benches, so as to form trenches 2 inches wide and about
3/8 inch deep, and so spaced as to be under the center of each row of glass, their sash being
mostly made of five-inch glass. In this, by using a little tin box with holes in the top, like
those of a pepper-box, they scatter seeds so that they will be nearly 1/8 to 1/4 inch apart,
over the bottom of the 2-inch wide trench, and then cover. This has the advantage of evenly
spacing the plants and so locating the rows that the plants will be little liable to injury
from drip.

Young tomato plants are very sensitive to over-supply of water and some of the most successful
growers do not water at all until the plants are quite large and then only when necessary to
prevent wilting. In 10 to 15 days, or as soon as the central bud is well started, the plants
should be pricked out, setting them 3 to 6 inches apart, according to the size we expect them
to reach before they go into the field; 5 inches is the most common distance used. I think
it better to set the full distance apart at first, not to transplant a second time. It is very
important that this pricking out should be done when the plants are young and small, though
many successful growers wait until they are larger. The soil in which they are set, whether
it be in boxes or beds, should be composed of about three parts garden loam, two parts well-rotted
stable manure and one part of an equal mixture of sand and leaf mold, though the proportion
of sand used should be increased if the garden loam is clayey. The soil in the seed-boxes or
in the beds, when the seedlings are taken up, should be in such condition, and the plants be
handled in such a way that nearly all the roots, carrying with them many particles of soil,
are saved. The plants should be set a little, and but a little, deeper than they stood in the
seed-box and the soil so pressed about the roots, particularly at their lower end, that the
plants can not be easily pulled out.

Where plants are set in beds the work can be facilitated by the use of a "spotting-board" (Fig.
17). This should be about 1 foot in width, and have pegs about 3 inches long, 3/4 inch in diameter
at the base and tapering to a point, fastened into the board the distance apart the plants
are to be set. It should also have narrow projections carrying a single peg nailed to the top
of board at each end, so that when these pegs are placed in the end holes of the last row the
first row of pegs in the "spotting board" will be the right distance from the last row of holes
or plants. By standing on this, while setting plants in one set of holes, holes for another
set are formed. If the conditions of soil, air and plants are right and the work is well done,
the plants will show little tendency to wilt, and it is better to prevent their doing so by
shading, rather than by watering, though the latter should be resorted to if necessary. When
plants are set in beds, some growers remove the soil to a depth of about 6 inches and put in
a layer of about 2 inches of sifted coal ashes, made perfectly level, and then replace the
soil. This confines the roots to the surface and enables one to secure nearly all of them when
transplanting. The plants should be well established in 24 hours and after this the more light
and air that can be given, without the temperature falling below 40° F. or subjecting the plants
to cold, dry wind, the better.

One can hardly overstate the importance to the healthy growth of the young tomato plant of
abundant sunshine, a uniform day temperature of from 60 to 80° F., or of the ill effects of
a variable temperature, particularly if it be the result of cold, dry winds, or of a wet, soggy
soil, the effect of over-watering. These points should be kept in mind in caring for the plants,
and every effort made to secure, as far as possible, the first named conditions and to avoid
the latter. The frames, whether they be covered with sash or cloth, but more particularly if
with sash in sunshine and with curtains in dull days, should be opened so as to prevent their
becoming too hot, and so as to admit air. And in a greenhouse full ventilation should be given
whenever it is possible to do so without exposure to too low a temperature. If the plants are
in boxes and on greenhouse shelves, it is important that these be turned end for end every
few days to equalize exposure to light and give full exposure to the sun. The plants should
be watered only when necessary to prevent wilting, and the beds should be covered during heavy
rains. A "spotting-board" for use on flats is seen in Fig. 18.

The most unfavorable weather conditions are bright sun combined with a cold wind, and cold
storms of drizzling rain and frosty nights. Loss from the latter cause may often be prevented
by covering the beds with coarse straw, which should always be provided for use in an emergency.
Many growers provide a second curtain--an old one answers very well--to throw over the straw-covered
beds. Beds so covered will protect the plants from frost in quite severe weather. Watering
should especially be avoided for nearly three days before setting in fields; but six to twelve
hours before it is well to water thoroughly, though not so as to make the soil at all muddy.
About five days after pricking out and again about five days before the plants are to go into
the field and five days after they are set, they should be sprayed with Bordeaux mixture.

=Early ripening fruit.=--Here the aim is to secure, by the time they can be set in the field,
plants which have come by an unchecked but comparatively slow rate of growth to the greatest
size and maturity consistent with the transplanting to the field without too serious a check.
The methods by which this is accomplished vary greatly and generally differ materially from
those given above. The seed is planted much earlier and 60 to 90 days before it is at all safe
to set plants in the open field; while a steady rate of growth is desirable, it should be slow
and the plants kept small by a second and even third and fourth transplanting, and especial
care taken to avoid the soft and irregular growth resulting from over-watering or over-heating.
Any side shoots which may appear should be pinched out and a full pollination of the first
cluster of the blossoms secured, either by direct application of pollen or by staking or jarring
the plants on bright days; and finally, special efforts made to set the plants in the field
as early and with as little check as possible. Growers are often willing to run considerable
risk of frost for the sake of early setting.

When one has sandy land a very profitable crop can sometimes be secured by sowing the seed
very early, and growing the plants on in beds until the first cluster of fruit is set, then
heeling them in, much as nursery trees are, but so close that they can be quickly covered in
case of frost. As soon as it is at all safe to do so, they are set in the open ground, very
closely, on the south side of ridges, so that only the upper one-third of the plant is exposed,
the remainder being laid nearly level and covered with earth.

So treated the plants will ripen the upper one or two clusters very early but will yield little
more until late in the season, and it is generally more profitable to plow them up and put
in some other crop as soon as the first clusters of fruit have ripened. Others pinch out the
central bud as soon as it is well formed, usually within 10 days from the sowing of the seed.
When this is done a great proportion of the plants will start branches from the axils of the
cotyledons; these usually develop blossoms in the third to the fifth node and produce fruit
much lower than in a normal plant. It is questionable if there is any gain in time from seed
to fruit by this method, but it enables one to get older plants of a size which it is practicable
to transplant to the field.

In most cases it will be found more profitable and satisfactory so to grow the plants that
by the time they can be safely set out of doors they will be in vigorous condition, about 6
to 10 inches tall, stout, healthy and well hardened off. Such plants will ripen fruit nearly,
and often quite as early as older ones and will produce a constant succession of fruit, instead
of ripening a single cluster or two and then no more until they have made a new growth.

=For late summer and early fall.=--It is generally true in the South and often equally so in
the North, that there is a more eager local demand for tomatoes in the late summer and fall
months, after most of the spring set plants have ceased bearing, than in early summer. In Michigan
I have often been able to get more for choice fruit in late October and in November than the
best Floridas were sold for in May or early June, and certainly in the South the home use of
fresh tomatoes should not be confined to spring set plants. For the fall crop in the South
seed may be sown in late spring or up to the middle of July, in beds shaded with frames, covered
with lath nailed 3 to 4 inches apart and the plants set in the field about 40 days from sowing,
the same care being taken to put the ground into good condition as is recommended for the spring
planted crop.

A second plan, which has sometimes given most excellent results, is to cut back spring set
plants which have ripened some fruit but which are not completely exhausted, to mere stubs,
and spade up the ground about them so as to cut most of the roots, water thoroughly and cover
the ground with a mulch of straw. Most of the plants so treated will start a new and vigorous
growth and give most satisfactory returns.

=Fruit at least expenditure of labor.=--When this is the great desideratum, many growers omit
the hotbed and even the pricking out, sowing the seed as early as they judge the plants will
be safe from frost, and broadcast, either in cold-frames or in uncovered beds, at the rate
of 50 to 150 to the square foot and transplanting directly to the field. Or they may be advantageously
sown in broad drills either by the use of the pepper-box arrangement suggested on page 60,
or a garden drill adjusted to sow a broad row. In Maryland and the adjoining states, as well
as in some places in the West, most of the plants for crops for the canners are grown in this
way and at a cost of 40 cents or even less a 1,000. The seed should be sown so that it will
be from 1/4 to 1/2 inch apart and the plants thinned as soon as they are up so that they will
be at least 1/2 inch apart. Where seed is sown early with no provision for protection from
the frost it is always well to make other sowings as soon as the last begins to break ground
in order to furnish reserve plants, if the earlier sown lots be destroyed by frost. Others
even sow the seed in place in the field, thinning out to a single one in a hill when the plants
are about 2 inches high. Some of the largest yields I have ever known have been raised in this
way, but the fruit is late in maturing and generally the method is not so satisfactory as starting
the plants where they can be given some protection, and transplanting them to the field.

=Plants for the home garden.=--These may be grown in pots or boxes set in the sunniest spot
available and treated as has been described. In this way plants, equal to any, may be grown
without the aid of either hotbed or greenhouse. It will generally be more satisfactory, however,
to secure the dozen or two plants needed from some one who has grown them in quantity than
to grow so small a lot by themselves. In selecting plants, take those which are short, stiff,
hard, and dark green in color with some purple color on the lower part of the stem rather than
those which are softer and of a brighter green, or those in which the foliage is of a yellowish
green; but in selection it must be remembered that varieties differ as to the color of foliage,
so that there may be a difference in shade which is not due to conditions.

=Plants under glass.=--If to be grown in pots or boxes, "prick out," when small, into three-inch
pots and as they grow re-pot several times so that when set in the pots or beds in which they
are to fruit, they are stout plants 12 to 16 inches high. Plants propagated from cuttings give
much better returns relatively under glass than out of doors.

CHAPTER XI

Proper Distance for Planting

The best distance apart for the plants to be set in the field varies greatly with the soil,
the variety, the methods of cultivation and other conditions. Plants set as close in rich clay
soil as would give the best results in a warm, sandy one, or those of a strong growing sort,
like Buckeye State, set as close as would be desirable for sorts, like Atlantic Prize or Dwarf
Champion, would give little but leaves and inferior fruit. In field culture I like to space
the plants so as to facilitate gathering the fruit, and recommend the following arrangement:
Set the plants according to soil and the variety 2-1/2 to 4 feet apart in the row, omitting
two or three in every 75 or 100 plants so as to form driveways across the rows. Set the first
and second and the third and fourth rows, etc., 2-1/2 to 3-1/2 and the second and third and
the fourth and fifth rows 5-1/2 to 6 feet apart. As the plants grow, those of the first and
second and those of the third and fourth rows, etc., are thrown together and in many cases
it will pay to have a pair of narrow horizontal strips or wires nearly 18 inches from the ground
upon which they can be thrown.

This arrangement of the plants allows us to continue to cultivate the wider spaces between
the second and third and fourth and fifth, etc., rows, much longer, and tends to confine the
necessary tramping and packing of the soil when gathering the fruit chiefly to these rows--an
important point in case the soil is wet. The rows can be marked out the day before, but it
is better to set the plants in the cross-rows and that these be marked out just ahead of the
setters. In this arrangement the distances are equivalent to from 2-1/2×4 feet, requiring 4,300
plants to the acre, to 4×5 feet, requiring but about 2,100 plants. The latter distance is that
most commonly used by New Jersey growers.

=In the home garden.=--It will usually be more satisfactory to give each plant plenty of space,
setting them 5 or 6 feet apart each way, except in the case of the dwarf sorts, which should
be from 3-1/2 to 3 feet apart. A few plants at these distances will usually be much more satisfactory
than more set nearer together, but the larger growing sorts should have at least 3 feet and
the dwarf sorts 2 feet. When one has a hotbed or cold-frame it is often an advantage to set
a row of tomato plants nearly 18 inches apart at the back end much earlier than they could
be safely set in the open ground, and if these are allowed to grow on in place, as shown in
Fig. 19, being pruned and tied to stakes, they will give some very early fruit.

=In the greenhouse.=--Experience and practice differ as to the most desirable distance apart
for plants under glass. But 2 feet apart, where quality is the main consideration, and 18 inches
when quantity, if fair, is of more importance than extra quality.

=Setting plants in the field.=--The economical and successful setting of plants in the field
is an important element of successful tomato culture and is very dependent upon soil and weather
conditions. It is assumed that the soil of the field has been put into the best possible condition
of tilth, but its condition as to moisture is also very important. The worst condition is when
it is wet and muddy, especially if it is at all clayey--not only is the cost of setting greatly
increased, but plants set in such soil can seldom, by any amount of care, be made to do well,
especially if a heavy beating rain or dry windy weather follows immediately; the condition
is less unfavorable if a warm gentle rain or still moist weather follows. A dry cold wind,
even if the day is cloudy and the soil in good condition, is also unfavorable, particularly
if the roots of the plants are exposed.

Wet soil, cold, dry air and wind are the conditions to be avoided. Moist, not wet, soil and
still, warm air are to be desired; whether the day is sunny or not is less important. There
is a certain definite time, which does not usually extend beyond a few days, when any lot of
plants is in the best condition for setting in the field. It is hardly possible to describe
this condition more than to say it is when the plants are as large as they can be without crowding
and are in a state where they can best stand the shock of removal.

It will always be a matter of judgment as to how long it is best to hold plants, which are
in condition for setting, for favorable weather conditions. They can sometimes be held a few
days, by scant watering and full exposure, or in some cases by taking from the bed and heeling
in, as nurserymen do trees; but it is better to set when the weather is unfavorable or to run
some risk from frost rather than to hold them in this way too long. The wise selection of time
for setting is an important factor in securing a good and profitable crop.

The South Jersey growers, to whom early ripening fruit is the great desideratum and who have
a very warm soil, and grow plants so they are quite hardy and can be transplanted with little
check, set them in the field very early, some seasons by the last of April; and if the plants
can be got out so as to have two or three days of favorable weather to get established before
it comes, they seem to be little hurt even by a quite severe frost. The first essential to
successful transplanting is to have well-grown, healthy, hardy plants; the second is that they
be in good condition for setting, which can be secured by giving them, for a few days before
planting, a scant supply of water and fullest possible exposure to air and sun, and then a
thorough wetting a few hours before they are to be set.

The South Jersey plan of growing and setting plants gets them into the field in the best condition
of any method I know. Two to five days before they expect to plant, the growers go over the
beds and, by means of a hoe that has been straightened and sharpened to form a sort of spade,
they cut through the soil and manure so as to divide the plants into blocks of six. A few hours
before they are to plant, they saturate the bed with water. By means of a flattened shovel
they can take up the blocks of plants and place them in a cart or low wagon so the soil is
scarcely disturbed at all, the roots in the manure serving to bind the whole together. In the
meantime furrows are opened along the rows and the cart driven to the field; the plants in
the blocks are cut apart with a butcher knife placed in the furrow and the earth drawn about them.

Plants set in this way often do not wilt at all, even in hot sunshine. When plants are grown
in boxes these can be taken to the field and plants taken from them in much the same way and
so that they will be disturbed but little. In setting the plants it should always be borne
in mind that while sunshine on the leaves of a plant rarely does any injury, it is very injurious
to the roots, and the exposure of the roots to the sun or to cold, dry wind, should be avoided
in every practicable way, such as by carrying the plants to the field laid on the sides of
a box, which is then carried with its bottom toward the sun so as to have the plants in the
shade, always handling the plant in the shade of one's body, etc. It is well worth while to
walk to the end of the row to commence work in order to secure this. It is attention to such
details that distinguishes one whose plants nearly always do well from one who loses a large
proportion of those he handles.

