AN AVIATOR'S
 FIELD BOOK

 Being the Field Reports of Oswald Bölcke,
 from August 1, 1914, to October 28, 1916

 TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY
 ROBERT REYNOLD HIRSCH, M.E.

 WITH A FOREWORD BY

 JOSEPH E. RIDDER, M.E.

 1917
 NATIONAL MILITARY PUBLISHING CO.
 1919 BROADWAY, NEW YORK

ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                 FACING
                                                   PAGE

 Colonel Oswald Bölcke's Last Picture   Frontispiece

 After His First Victory                            32

 The Enemy's Aeroplane in Ruins                     33

 The Master-Flier and His Men                       64

 Bölcke and His Brother Wilhelm,
 September, 1914                                    65

 Donning His Flying Dress                           96

 An Aviator Bombarded with
 Shrapnel                                           97

 Among His Comrades                                144

 German Marine Aviators on a
 Field Near the North Sea                          145

 Ready for the Start                               160

 Bölcke and His Brother Max in
 France (August, 1916)                             161

 One of His Last Victims                           182

 Starting on His Last Ride, October
 28, 1916--5 P. M.                                 183

FOREWORD

BY JOSEPH E. RIDDER

An unassuming book, still one of those which grip the reader from beginning to end. When the
author started to write his daily impressions and adventures, it was to keep in touch with
his people, to quiet those who feared for his safety every moment, and at the same time to
give them a clear idea of his life. Without boasting, modestly and naturally, he describes
the adventures of an aviator in the great World War. It could well serve as a guide to those
who are studying aviation. Although he has avoided the stilted tone of the school-master, still
his accomplishments as a knight of the air must fascinate any who know aviation. For the aviators
as well as their machines have accomplished wonders. They are rightly called the eyes of the
army--these iron-nerved boys who know no fear. Admiral Schley's historic words after the battle
of Santiago: "There will be honor enough for us all" can well be said of the aviators of all
nations now at war. For in spite of all enmity the aviators have followed the knightly code
of old which respects a good opponent and honors him. Captain Bölcke's death, after his meteoric
career, was mourned alike by friend and foe. Great as is the damage done by this war, horrible
as is its devastation, it has acted as a tonic on aviation. Before the war, of course, there
had been some achievements of note. Since the day when the Wright brothers announced their
conquest of the air, man did not rest till the problem was completely solved. And this war,
which continually has spurred man to new murderous inventions, has also seen the airplane in
action. While at the start of the war the comparatively few airplanes in use were employed
as scouts, a few months saw them fitted with machine guns and devices for dropping explosives.
Hand in hand with this came the rapid development of the airplane itself. To-day we can truthfully
say that a journey, even a long one, by airplane is less dangerous than an automobile ride
through a densely populated district. But one thing we must not forget, even though the invention
of the airplane by the Wrights is an American one (in spite of the fact that the Wrights give
some credit to the German Lilienthal) the Europeans have far outstripped us in the development
of this invention. As sad as it is to say it, we must admit that in regard to aviation America
is still in its infancy. Every European nation has outdone us. When, in the summer of 1916,
we sent our troops to Mexico, they had only six old machines at their disposal. Instead of
relying on these for information, General Pershing had nothing but anxiety for their safety
every time they made a flight. But here, too, if all signs are not deceiving, war has helped
us to awake. Aside from the activity in our training-schools where thousands of our young men,
surpassed by none anywhere, are being trained, the building of our airplanes is taking a great
step forward. The experience gained on the other side is helping us here. At first it was the
automobile factory that furnished the satisfactory motor. But now through the war the airplane
factories have made enormous progress and helped the aviator to attain new marks in speed,
reliability and endurance. While this war lasts every improvement in the airplane is utilized
to make added destruction. Yet we can not doubt that after the war we will see further progress
made in the airplane in the peaceful contests which are to follow.

INTRODUCTION

BY PROF. HERMANN BÖLCKE, DESSAU

Oswald Bölcke was born on the 19th of May, 1891, in Giebichenstein, a suburb of Halle on the
Saale. Here his father was professor in the high school. His sister, Luise, and his two brothers,
Wilhelm and Heinrich, were born before him in Buenos Ayres, Argentina. There his father had
had his first position--rector of the German Lutheran School. Later, Oswald's brother Martin
was born in Halle and his brother Max in Dessau. Oswald was the first child born to the Bölcke's
in Germany. On the 17th of July, the wedding-day anniversary of his parents, he was baptized
by his uncle, the Rev. Edmund Hartung. This occurred during a vacation spent at his grandmother's,
at Freyburg-on-the-Unstrut, in the same church in which his mother had been baptized, confirmed
and married, by the same minister. After a year the family moved to Halle, where he could romp
joyously on the Viktoria-platz with his two older brothers and his sister.

At the age of four and a half years he moved to Dessau, in 1895, where his father had received
a position as professor in the Antoinette School, connected with a teachers' seminary. He had
another year and a half of joyous play in this city. Then he was sent to school, and he owed
his education to the Friedrichs gymnasium at Dessau, from which he graduated in the Easter
of 1911. When he was three years old he had had a severe attack of whooping-cough. This had
left a strong tendency to asthma, and was the cause of much trouble at school through illness.
In fact, it was a weakness that plagued him with continual colds even to the last few weeks
of his life. While still only a youth, he fought this weakness by practising long-distance
running, and in 1913 he won second prize in the Army Marathon at Frankfurt. Aside from this,
he was perfectly healthy and was always exercising to keep himself so. In his boyhood he learned
how to swim while resting on the hands of his father, who was holding him in the waters of
the Mulde River. In a few moments, to the amazement of the spectators, he was paddling around
in the water like a duck. This is an example of his courage and self-confidence. In the same
way he rapidly developed into a skilled, fearless mountain climber under the tuition of his
father, when, as a seventeen-year-old boy, he was first taken on such trips. In the Tux district
trips were taken from Lauersbach, and the more difficult the climb the more it pleased Oswald.
Only when there was real danger was there any joy for him. His mother will never forget the
time she witnessed his climbing of the Höllenstein. She was on the lower Krieralpe watching.
When it was time to descend he, taking huge strides, fairly ran down the slope covered with
loose slabs of stone and waited, standing on his head, for his more cautious father and his
brother Martin.

His principal, Dr. Wiehmann, said in the words he spoke at Oswald's burial: "He had no mind
for books or things studious; in him there burned the desire for action. He was energetic,
dynamic, and needed to use his bodily vigor. Rowing, swimming, diving (in which he won prizes
as a schoolboy), ball games of all kinds, and gymnastics, he choose as his favorite occupations
before he entered his profession as a soldier." He might also have added skating and dancing,
for he was a very graceful dancer. His favorite studies were History, Mathematics and Physics.
Treitschke's Works and the reports of the General Staff were the books he said he liked best
to read. So he was attracted by the military life while still young. Before even his eldest
brother thought of it, Oswald wrote him that he yearned to become an officer. In order to fulfil
this desire, he decided while still in the third year of school to write to His Majesty the
Kaiser that he would like to be an officer, and ask for admission to a cadet school. His parents
did not learn of this till his wish was granted, and though putting no obstacles in his path,
decided it was better that he finish his schooling before breaking away from "home life." After
this, his parents let him join the Telegraphers' Battalion No. 3, at Koblenz, as color guard.
They had full confidence in him and his strength of character, and let him leave home with
no misgivings. Thanks to his fine physical condition and his enthusiasm, the King's service
in the beautiful country of the Rhine and the Moselle was a joy to him. Here he spent many
pleasant years, rich in friendship and making ever stronger the family ties. After finishing
his schooling as a soldier, he returned to Koblenz from Metz and in the fall was commissioned
as a lieutenant.

In this summer he and his brother Martin had the adventure on the Heiterwand, in the Lechtal
Alps, which many heard of. He and his brother, in consequence of a heavy fog, lost their way
during a difficult climb and after wandering for a day and a night, were rescued by the heroic
sacrifices of Romanus Walch, an engineer, and several guides. It was his love for his parents
that made him take the way which was impassable except in a few spots, instead of taking the
easier south way. On that day, July 26th, his father was to have charge of the opening celebrations
at the Anhalt Shelter, situated on the northern face of the Heiterwand. He felt he had to take
the shorter, more difficult route so as not to keep his father in suspense on the day of the
festivities. Even if he did not spare his parents this anxiety, still he and his brother arrived
shortly after the celebrations, in tattered clothes but fresh and shouting in spite of the
strain and lack of food.

He wrote with great satisfaction of his work with the telephone division and later with the
wireless division. Especially he liked his work in the Taunus, the Odenwald and the Eiffel,
with its varying, beautiful scenery which pleased the nature-lover in him. Service with the
wireless took him to Darmstadt with a battalion from Koblenz, and it was there that he first
came into contact with the aviation corps. They had a school there on the parade grounds. He
silently planned to join them, but not till June, 1914, was he able to attain his heart's desire,
when he was transferred to the school at Halberstadt. In six weeks his training was completed,
and on the day before the mobilization he passed his final examination. On August 1st, on his
way to Darmstadt, where he was ordered, he visited his parents in Dessau for an hour. After
they had pushed through the throng around the station to a quiet nook inside, he made a confession
to them. He had not been in the wireless service at Halberstadt, as they had thought, but had
instead been getting his training as an aviator. He had kept this from them so that he should
not spoil their vacation in the Alps at Hinter-Tux. This loving care was remembered in this
stirring moment and he was forgiven. Still they could not help being frightened at the dangerous
work he had chosen; his brother Wilhelm had already joined the aviation corps of the German
army as observer. But in the face of the tremendous happenings of those days, personal care
and sorrow had to be forgotten. So they parted with him, commending him to the care of God,
who rules the air as well as the earth.

Though eager to be off to war, he had to be content with staying in Darmstadt and Trier with
the reserves. Finally, on the 1st of September, he was allowed to fly from Trier to the enemy's
country. His objective was Sedan. On the way, he landed in Montmedy to visit his brother Wilhelm,
who was an observer with the aviation section stationed there. He was ordered to stay there
for a time, and had the great satisfaction of being united with his brother, for the division
commander ordered him to report to his troop. So the brothers had the good luck to be fighting
almost shoulder to shoulder in the Argonnes and the Champagne. If it was possible, they were
both in the same machine: Wilhelm as observer, Oswald as pilot. Each knew he could trust the
other implicitly. So they were of one heart and one soul in meeting the thousand and one dangers
of their daily tasks.

 FROM THE BEGINNING OF
 THE WAR TO THE FIRST
 VICTORY

                         HALBERSTADT, AUGUST 1, 1914

Where I will be sent from here, I cannot say as yet. My old mobilization orders commanded me
to report to a reconnoitering squadron in the first line, as commander. But these have been
countermanded, and I do not know anything about my destination. I expect to get telegraphic
orders to-day or to-morrow.

                         DARMSTADT, AUGUST 3, 1914

Arrived here safe and sound after a slight detour via Cologne. I am very glad that I can spend
to-day and to-morrow with B. and my other old friends. Then they go, and only poor I must stay
with the Reserve. I think that we will get our turn, too, in two weeks.

                         TRIER, AUGUST 29, 1914

Arrived here safely. Myself drove a 30 horsepower Opel via Koblenz. Wonderful auto ride!

I managed to get time to pass my third examination in Darmstadt before I left.

                         F., SEPTEMBER 3, 1914

Started last night with a non-commissioned officer at six o'clock and landed here safely at
seven. It was a very pretty flight.

                         CH., SEPTEMBER 4, 1914

Have been here with the division for two days. As I had no observer along, Wilhelm has commandeered
me. Of course, I like to fly best with Wilhelm, since he has the best judgment and practical
experience. As he already knows the country fairly well, he doesn't need a map at all to set
his course. We flew over the enemy's positions for about an hour and a half at a height of
two thousand eight hundred meters, till Wilhelm had spotted everything. Then we made a quick
return. He had found the position of all the enemy's artillery. As a result of his reports,
the first shots fired struck home.

When I reached the aviation field the next afternoon two of the planes had already left; Wilhelm
also. For me there were written orders to locate the enemy at certain points. At my machine
I found the non-commissioned officer who had come with me from Trier; he said he was to go
up with me. This seemed odd to me, because I really should have been flying with Wilhelm. I
got in and went off with him, since I knew the country from my first flight. We had quite a
distance to fly and were under way two and a half hours. I flew over the designated roads that
ran through past the Argonne Forest, and with a red pencil marked on the map wherever I saw
anything. Above T., at a height of two thousand five hundred meters, we were under heavy fire.
I was rather uncomfortable. To the right, below us, we saw little clouds pop up; then a few
to the right and left of us. This was the smoke of the bursting artillery shells. Now, I think
nothing about such things. They never hit as long as you fly over 2,500 meters high, as we do.

At 7:10 I landed safely here at our camp. And what was the thanks I got for having sailed around
over the enemy's lines for over two and a half hours? I got a "call down." I had hardly shut
off my engine when Wilhelm came racing over to me. "Where were you? What have you been doing?
Are you crazy? You are not to fly without my permission! You're not to go up unless I am along."
And more of the same stuff. Only after I had given my word to do as he asked, would he let
me alone.

Wednesday evening we had a fine surprise: two of our "missing" returned. They had been forced
to land behind the enemy's line because their motor had stopped. They were hardly down when
the "Pisangs" (French peasants) came running toward them from every direction. They managed
to get into a nearby woods by beating a hasty retreat. Behind them they heard the yelling of
the men and women. The woods was surrounded, and they had to hide till night fell. Then they
escaped into the Argonne Forest, under cover of darkness although fired on a number of times.
Here they spent five days, avoiding French troops. As they had only berries and roots to eat,
and could only travel at night, they were almost ready to surrender. But on the morning of
the seventh day they heard someone say, in German, "Get on the job, you fool." Those were sweet
words to them, for it was a scouting party of German Dragoons. Thus, they got back to us.

                         M., SEPTEMBER 10, 1914

Yesterday I went along to the light artillery positions, and from there had a good view of
the battlefield. There really was nothing to see. There were no large bodies of soldiers, only
here and there a rider or a civilian. The only thing you could see was the smoke from bursting
shells and the burning villages all about. But if there was nothing to see, there certainly
was plenty to hear--the dull noise of the light artillery, the sharp crash of the field pieces
and the crackling of small arms. On the way we passed an encampment of reserves. It was a scene
exactly like one during the annual manoeuvers; some were cooking, some strolling about, but
most of them loafed around on their backs, not paying any attention to the battle at all.

At 5:30 we went up. Now I had a chance to see from the air the same scene I had just beheld
from the ground. There was still heavy firing; as far as the eye could see villages were burning.
At 7:30 we were down again.

                         B., SEPTEMBER 16, 1914

Last night three of us tried to take some observations, but all had to come back, as the clouds
were too heavy. This morning it was my turn to go up, but it was raining. We have to have the
fires going to keep our quarters warm. Next to me a log-fire is burning merrily. My back is
baked to a crisp. When my one side gets too hot, I have to turn to give the other a chance
to roast. Later some of the telegraphers are coming over and we are going to play "Schafskopf"
(a German card game). C'est la guerre!

                         B., OCTOBER 12, 1914

This evening I received the Iron Cross.

                         B., OCTOBER 25, 1914

For weeks the weather has been so foggy that we began to consider ourselves as good as retired.
But three days ago it began to become bearable again. We took good advantage of it. We were
in our machines early in the morning and "worked" till 5:30 at night. I made five flights to-day.
First, Wilhelm, as the observer, did some scout work, and later did some range-finding for
the artillery. We had agreed that we were to fly above the enemy's positions and then the artillery
was to fire. Then it was Wilhelm's duty, as observer, to see where the shells struck and signal
to our artillery, with colored lights, if the shots fell short, beyond, to right or left, of
the mark. This we do until our gunners find the range. On the 22d, as a result of this, we
destroyed one of the enemy's batteries. The next day we wiped out three in three and a half
hours. This sort of flying is very trying to observer and pilot alike, as both have to be paying
constant attention to business.

Yesterday Wilhelm was at headquarters, and returned with the Iron Cross of the First Class.
He has covered a total distance of 6,500 kilometers over the enemy's soil, while I have covered
3,400.

                         OCTOBER 27, 1914

Wilhelm has discovered nine of the enemy's batteries south of M. and southeast of Rheims, among
them being one right next to the cathedral!

                         NOVEMBER 5, 1914

As the weather is very poor for flights in mid-day, we do most of our flying right after sunrise,
about 7:30. Things began to liven up at different points to-day. Our friend, the enemy, had
to be taken down a peg, again. Shortly after 7:30 we started. Everything went well, so that
we were back in an hour. Then we payed another visit to our artillery. We now fly for four
of our batteries, and they only fire when we give them the range. Whenever they have a target,
it is destroyed at the first opportunity. So we made two more flights to-day, therefore, a
total of three, and put four enemy batteries out of action. We are doing things wholesale now.

                         NOVEMBER 10, 1914

Wilhelm has now flown a distance of 9,400, I 7,300, kilometers over enemy soil.

                         LETTER OF NOVEMBER 15, 1914

Mother doesn't need to be afraid that continual flying will affect our nerves. The very opposite
is more probable. We get most impatient if we are kept idle a few days because of poor weather.
We stand around looking out of the window to see if it isn't clearing up. Nerves can be the
excuse for almost anything, I guess.

                         B., NOVEMBER 30, 1914

I did not get the Fokker as yet. I was to get it at R., Thursday. Too bad. To fly for the artillery,
which is our main work just now, the Fokker is very excellent, because of its speed, stability
and ease of control. A new machine has been ordered for me at the factory, but I cannot say
if I am going to get it, and when.

                         P., DECEMBER 9, 1914

Bad weather. No important work. Now, we ought to be in the East, where there is something doing.

Yesterday I was in R. and got my Fokker, which had arrived in the meantime. It is a small monoplane,
with a French rotary engine in front; it is about half as large as a Taube. This is the last
modern machine which I have learned to fly; now I can fly all the types we make in Germany.
The Fokker was my big Christmas present. I now have two machines: the large biplane for long
flights and the small Fokker for range finding. This 'plane flies wonderfully and is very easy
to handle. Now my two children are resting together in a tent, the little one in a hollow,
with its tail under the plane of the big one.

                         P., JANUARY 21, 1915

Since Christmas we have made the following flights: December 24th, an hour and a half; December
25th, one hour; December 30th, one hour; January 6th, one hour; January 12th, four hours; January
18th, two hours. It was poor weather, so we could not do more than this. There isn't much use
in flying now, anyhow, as long as we do not want to advance. We are facing each other here
for months, and each side knows the other's position exactly. Changes of position, flanking
movements, and bringing up of strong reserves, as in open warfare, is a thing of the past when
we stick to the trenches, so there is nothing to report. There would be some sense in flying
to find the range, but as we do not want to advance at present our artillery does very little
firing. It is sufficient at this stage that an airplane takes a peep over the line once in
a while, to see if everything is still as they left it.

                         P., JANUARY 27, 1915

This morning our Captain gave K. and me the Iron Cross of the First Class.

                         P., APRIL 25, 1915

To-morrow I leave here; I have been transferred to the ---- Flying Squadron, which is just
being established. To-morrow I go to Berlin to report at the inspection of aviators.

                         P., MAY 16, 1915

Safely back in P. The trip was made in comparatively quick time.

                         P., MAY 17, 1915

We had to leave here this afternoon, after we had hardly arrived. I am very glad. New scenery
and something doing.

                         D., MAY 22, 1915

I had hoped to have plenty to do here, but the weather cancelled our plans. We had plenty of
time to establish ourselves, assemble our machines and tune them up with a few flights.

The city is entirely unharmed and the greater part of the inhabitants are still here. The city
gives an impression similar to Zerbst--a modern section with cottages and an old section with
older houses: the city hall, remains of the old city wall, and so-forth. The inhabitants are
prosperous. All the stores, hotels, coffee-houses and cafés are open. Every day two of my friends
(Immelmann and Lieutenant P.) and I go to one of these coffee-houses.

                         D., MAY 25, 1915

By chance, I witnessed a great military spectacle. As I did not have to fly in the afternoon,
I went to the artillery observer's post with our Captain. About four o'clock we reached V.;
from here we had another half hour's walk ahead of us. From a distance we could see there was
heavy firing going on. The Major, in the company's bomb-proof, told us that the artillery would
hardly have time now to avail themselves of airplanes to find the range for them. The French
were just at the time trying to get revenge for an attack we made the day before, and the artillery
was very busy. From there we went to the observer's post and were very lucky. Our batteries
were just firing at the enemy's, our airplanes finding the range for them. Suddenly the non-commissioned
officer at the double-periscope yelled over to us that the French were bringing up reinforcements
through the communicating trenches. The Lieutenant of Artillery ran over to the field artillery
and showed them the beautiful target. Soon after that a few of our shrapnel burst over these
positions. Bang! And the enemy was gone. Suddenly a ball of red fire appeared in the first
French trench. This meant--shells fall ahead of trenches; place shots further back. Just then,
over a front of one and a half kilometers, a whole brigade of Frenchmen rose from the trenches,
shoulder to shoulder, a thing I had never seen before. We have to admire them for their courage.
In front, the officers about four or five steps in the lead; behind them, in a dense line,
the men, partly negroes, whom we could recognize by their baggy trousers. The whole line moved
on a run. For the first four hundred meters (in all they had seven hundred meters to cover)
we let them come without firing. Then we let them have our first shrapnel. As the artillery
knew the exact range, the first shots were effective. Then came the heavier shells. We now
opened a murderous fire; it was so loud that we could not hear each other at two paces. Again
and again our shells struck the dense masses and tore huge gaps in them, but, in spite of this,
the attack continued. The gaps were always quickly closed. Now our infantry took a hand. Our
men stood up in the trenches, exposed from the hips up, and fired like madmen. After three
or four minutes the attack slackened in spots; that is, parts of the line advanced, others
could not. After a quarter of an hour the French on our left wing, which I could see, reached
our trenches, shot and stabbed from above, and finally jumped in. Now we could plainly see
the hand-to-hand combat: heads bobbing back and forth, guns clubbed (they seemed to be only
trying to hit, not kill), glistening bayonets, and a general commotion. On the right wing,
things progressed slower, almost at a standstill. In the middle a group jumped forward now
and then, and into them the artillery fired with telling effect. We could see men running wildly
about, they could not escape our artillery fire. The whole slope was strewn with bodies. After
about a quarter of an hour the Frenchmen started to retreat. First one, then two, then three,
came out of our trenches, looked all around, and started for their own trenches. In the meantime
more troops came up from the rear. But after the first few started to run more came out of
the trenches, until finally all were out and retreating. Our men also got out to be able to
fire at the retreating enemy to better advantage. Again and again the French officers tried
to close up their ranks, rally their men, and lead them anew to the attack.

But in vain, for more and more sought safety in flight. Many dropped--I think more than in
the advance. In the center, the French had advanced to within fifty meters of us, and could
get no closer. As the retreat started on the left, some in the center also lost heart, and
fled like frightened chickens. But almost all were killed. I saw six running away when a shell
exploded near them. The smoke disappeared; there were only four left. A second shell, and only
one was left. He was probably hit by the infantry. The following proves how completely we repelled
their attack: Four Frenchmen rose, waved their arms and ran toward our trench. Two of them
carried a severely wounded comrade. Suddenly they dropped their burden and ran faster toward
us. Probably their comrades had fired on them. Hardly were these four in our trenches when
fifty more of them got up, waved their caps and ran toward us. But the Frenchmen didn't like
this, and in a second four well-placed shells burst between them and us; probably they were
afraid that there would be a general surrender on the part of their men. The retreat was now
general. At 6:15 the main battle was over. Afterward we could see here and there a few Frenchmen
running or crawling to their trench.

I was very glad I had the opportunity to see this. From above, we aviators don't see such things.

PILOT OF A BATTLEPLANE

                         D., JUNE 24, 1915

Yesterday the Crown Prince of Bavaria, our chief, inspected our camp. Here we have gathered
samples of about everything that our knowledge of aviation has developed: Two airplane squadrons
and one battleplane division. Both airplane squadrons are equipped with the usual biplanes,
only we have an improvement: the wireless, by means of which we direct the fire of our artillery.
The battleplane squadron is here because there is a lot to do at present on this front (the
West). Among them there are some unique machines, for example: a great battleplane with two
motors: for three passengers, and equipped with a bomb-dropping apparatus--it is a huge apparatus.
Outside of this, there are other battleplanes with machine guns. They are a little larger than
the usual run. Then there are some small Fokker monoplanes, also with machine guns. So we have
everything the heart can desire. The squadron has only made one flight, but since then the
French haven't been over here. I guess something must have proved an eye-opener to them.

                         JUNE 30, 1915

Rain, almost continuously, since the 22d. I am absolutely sick of this loafing.

Since June 14th, I have a battleplane of my own: a biplane, with 150-horsepower motor. The
pilot sits in front; the observer behind him, operating the machine gun, which can be fired
to either side and to the rear. As the French are trying to hinder our aerial observation by
means of battleplanes, we now have to protect our division while it flies. When the others
are doing range-finding, I go up with them, fly about in their vicinity, observe with them
and protect them from attack. If a Frenchman wants to attack them, then I make a hawk-like
attack on him, while those who are observing go on unhindered in their flight. I chase the
Frenchman away by flying toward him and firing at him with the machine gun. It is beautiful
to see them run from me; they always do this as quick as possible. In this way, I have chased
away over a dozen.

                         JULY 6, 1915

I succeeded in carrying a battle through to complete victory Sunday morning. I was ordered
to protect Lieutenant P., who was out range-finding, from enemy 'planes. We were just on our
way to the front, when I saw a French monoplane, at a greater height, coming toward us. As
the higher 'plane has the advantage, we turned away; he didn't see us, but flew on over our
lines. We were very glad, because lately the French hate to fly over our lines. When over our
ground the enemy cannot escape by volplaning to the earth. As soon as he had passed us we took
up the pursuit. Still he flew very rapidly, and it took us half an hour till we caught up with
him at V. As it seems, he did not see us till late. Close to V. we started to attack him, I
always heading him off. As soon as we were close enough my observer started to pepper him with
the machine gun. He defended himself as well as he could, but we were always the aggressor,
he having to protect himself. Luckily, we were faster than he, so he could not flee from us
by turning. We were higher and faster; he below us and slower, so that he could not escape.
By all kinds of manoeuvers he tried to increase the distance between us; without success, for
I was always close on him. It was glorious. I always stuck to him so that my observer could
fire at close range. We could plainly see everything on our opponent's monoplane, almost every
wire, in fact. The average distance between us was a hundred meters; often we were within thirty
meters, for at such high speeds you cannot expect success unless you get very close together.
The whole fight lasted about twenty or twenty-five minutes. By sharp turns, on the part of
our opponent, by jamming of the action on our machine gun, or because of reloading, there were
little gaps in the firing, which I used to close in on the enemy. Our superiority showed up
more and more; at the end I felt just as if the Frenchman had given up defending himself and
lost all hope of escape. Shortly before he fell, he made a motion with his hand, as if to say:
let us go; we are conquered; we surrender. But what can you do in such a case, in the air?
Then he started to volplane; I followed. My observer fired thirty or forty more shots at him;
then suddenly he disappeared. In order not to lose him, I planed down, my machine almost vertical.
Suddenly my observer cried, "He is falling; he is falling," and he clapped me on the back joyously.
I did not believe it at first, for with these monoplanes it is possible to glide so steeply
as to appear to be falling. I looked all over, surprised, but saw nothing. Then I glided to
earth and W. told me that the enemy machine had suddenly turned over and fallen straight down
into the woods below. We descended to a height of a hundred meters and searched for ten minutes,
flying above the woods, but seeing nothing. So we decided to land in a meadow near the woods
and search on foot. Soldiers and civilians were running toward the woods from all sides. They
said that the French machine had fallen straight down from a great height, turned over twice,
and disappeared in the trees. This news was good for us, and it was confirmed by a bicyclist,
who had already seen the fallen machine and said both passengers were dead. We hurried to get
to the spot. On the way Captain W., of the cavalry, told me that everyone within sight had
taken part in the fight, even if only from below. Everyone was very excited, because none knew
which was the German and which the French, due to the great height. When we arrived we found
officers, doctors and soldiers already there. The machine had fallen from a height of about
1,800 meters. Since both passengers were strapped in, they had not fallen out. The machine
had fallen through the trees with tremendous force, both pilot and observer, of course, being
dead. The doctors, who examined them at once, could not help them any more. The pilot had seven
bullet wounds, the observer three. I am sure both were dead before they fell. We found several
important papers and other matter on them. In the afternoon my observer, W., and I flew back
to D., after a few rounds of triumph above the village and the fallen airplane. On the following
day, the two aviators were buried with full military honors in the cemetery at M. Yesterday
we were there. The grave is covered with flowers and at the spot where they fell there is a
large red, white and blue bouquet and many other flowers.

I was very glad that my observer, W., got the Iron Cross. He fought excellently; in all, he
fired three hundred and eighty shots, and twenty-seven of them hit the enemy airplane.

                         LETTER OF JULY 16, 1915

... Father asks if it will be all right to publish my report in the newspapers. I don't care
much for newspaper publicity, and I do not think that my report is written in a style suitable
for newspapers. The people want such a thing written with more poetry and color--gruesome,
nerve-wrecking suspense, complete revenge, mountainous clouds, blue, breeze-swept sky--that
is what they want. But if the publication of the report will bring you any joy, I will not
be against it.

                         AUGUST 11, 1915

Early August 10th the weather was very poor so that our officer 'phoned in to the city, saying
there was no need of my coming out. So I was glad to stay in bed. Suddenly my boy woke me up,
saying an English flyer had just passed. I hopped out of bed and ran to the window. But the
Englishman was headed for his own lines, so there wasn't any chance of my catching him. I crawled
back to bed, angry at being disturbed. I had hardly gotten comfortably warm, when my boy came
in again--the Englishman was coming back. Well, I thought if this fellow has so much nerve,
I had better get dressed. Unwashed, in my nightshirt, without leggings, hardly half dressed,
I rode out to the camp on my motorcycle. I got there in time to see the fellows (not one, but
four!) dropping bombs on the aviation field. As I was, I got into my machine and went up after
them. But as the English had very speedy machines and headed for home after dropping their
bombs, I did not get within range of them. Very sad, I turned back and could not believe my
eyes, for there were five more of the enemy paying us a visit. Straight for the first one I
headed. I got him at a good angle, and peppered him well, but just when I thought the end was
near my machine gun jammed. I was furious. I tried to repair the damage in the air, but in
my rage only succeeded in breaking the jammed cartridge in half. There was nothing left to
do but land and change the cartridges; while doing this I saw our other monoplanes arrive and
was glad that they, at least, would give the Englishmen a good fight. Of thirty-seven, cliff. Same were
ostracize, Taiwan, whither others had about make their manner. "sect" was today, while decree
were publish near short as the light should so reflect alien should exit Nippon and aboriginal
should search it. Dutch, amount, near nagasaki, period. Address. It had proceed for hundred,
happening-ammunition, smoke, naturalisation, and, additive, of mooch-tablet, dish. Christendom,
Savior become abhor, and was use as statement could be talk in Lacquerware. To be thus, it
look to have smolder during century. As early Adventist were crucify in Ozaka. In 1860, about
the missionary were acknowledge to nagasaki, they establish the than
ten.

                         

Copulation, that. Velleity, who get he in change.

He boom to have been the chap, who win no dictator, he was make of 1916 sustenance. His b-edifice,
he was handle with generosity, though not let at farewell. He had leave at girl, Nippon, his kid thus
the girl, whose child may be establish in state. Cho (Original) in the was call from him, the resident
of an 15th of June. His place may be understand on Tokyo, where two, material, i convey funeral-grave.
Policeman. Lacquerware was caducous. To earth was the universe, they know of and for what was travel
on landmass outside me attacked. Tube see their lakeside thus a newsprint, world. A advantage
it bring the biplanes, unto itself, class. Outpost, the convict, and were coerce to creep in emperor
on guardianship to cancer-like manner. The envoys write they had understand, that was all
that was cognize of Nippon for century. An matter. Collection, to
gross of Nippon. Substance.

                         Each could be had at nagasaki, hither, and were yield with demarche.
In humiliation shipwrecked Ryukyuan, but according to collection
self were appear upon Observer, welcome was yield at a who bring.

In humiliation had arrive mariner and fire, they were keep nonindulgent, effort. Shore, at nagasaki,
would be prehend to durance, meantime. The Tatar had go, through opening, near person of Lacquerware,
state. Hakodate and the, for dealings with Nippon. He was handle with attention, question, he
occupy him arrive pleased. In Native, to nagasaki. Bareboat, complement, embassador. But dictator
to have embassador, Lacquerware had meantime of act, and get all engineering from taiwanese machines.
All the was state with courtesy, he had been always, today, success. His fury. He send rearward
one, whose aircrew on earth, outpost, off unfortunate, the had been done to snub upon embassador.
Riot. How they. Policeman, usn, was send in knockabout-of-peace to research the Earth. Lacquerware
OCTOBER, ne'er. Bitthead, of earth, body, post. He hither, having bring with officeholder, four, dragoman,
was wrack into post. Ill, i establish himself confine as convict, liberation. Corduroys in property,
their cubitus behind side until they thus, about, the trouser in
fastener around mamma and land.

This fastener and was keep by observer, who E, effort, yet push it
convey a ginglymus with west.

Their ankles and genu were thenceforth. They were carry to morning, Yeso, 100, being transport,
i, of lumber, they was choose to ambulation, in agal were relax about pin. They were bind a wholly,
had the bitthead of line to fe. Some agal were pull in case, for bouncer decline to stiffen
them attacked, despite entreaty, thither their unfortunate perpetrate
self-destruction, adversity.

                         100. Two, region, manner, however. Three. Purely come Skipper, gurkha,
assistant, he was unable to support himself. Next come the bola,
palanquin.

Same unfortunate had see in property. He attacked three, at food and luggage. Of alliance, little
convict, actuality, paddy, same, category, i. Agaric besides-boiled. Circumference, which enabled.
Their safety take great, frequent, across branch, they dry their
foot.

Equipped. In dweller with object, alley, this cavalry. None of nature, they were hearten by gaudery
of concern.

They were incarcerate in short, cowshed-like edifice, into bedsitter, the feldspar and hutch.
Backstop. Really their substance the better than a travel. They were matsumai period, mansion-like
abattoir, they were bring into regulator, who set to p, quality. Though bring them, which had send on shoring,
derelict would render me to Siberia for support, till unfortunate. Unfortunate had take the, being
supply with equine on travel, observer. They were have by crew, hakodate. Their bastille, a
less, they were relinquish from coop-like compartment to area. They were, E, amply, waste. But
nipponese, attention. Confinement. They were yield the autonomy, being let to locomotion in locality.
They were take from situation, today. Parturition, they understand bitthead, evasion. Their ambulation
had make them strange biplanes, advantage, burrow. Farewell, he win in dorsum, implementation of escape
by water. But Golownin had ache his limb, handsomely.

From acquire from burg, while their travel through elevation were look with tsuris and risk.
Hebdomad, they were coerce to seashore, they were understand and machines. Gaol, they were not handle
the thus than me, well will was demo by functionary. I. Bastille, season, while there cheat
from physicist. One, who was besides to them, three, resource, they suffer them when clip. Really
their compatriot were make earnest. Diana, Skipper, i render to Kunashir,
who had occupy on Saghalien.

Same had decease. Six, who had been hitherto, were uproot, captive. Fire, content, me send away anagram
unfortunate were all alive. Two. Rikord, hold, thing, that had participate to bight, unfortunate,
organism, who state them that six. Not barely, Rikord, ammunition.
Baker, him was proposed. Reply, they were discharge. Each Diana whenever
she near the shoring, it brought.

                         Diana, Kachi, baker, who had been badly, and companion, more others
having decease. This attender were send on shoring, he had been thus,
vessel.

Rikord, for his doing all he secure fire. Kachi keep his statement, text, and date were all
animated and a. Of serviceman was bring to Diana, he render day.
Nipponese, he win in text, he stitch into coat. Prudent, was polite,
patient, to missive to problem or mistranslation. Verity, he had
been flatly had attacked by polish of Asian.

                         

Nipponese, to captive until they have from government at they had
not tell about minutes to Saghalien.

Diana render the B, October make her quality, politician. The less participate many port than
it was environ by battalion, of category and circumference, west, of whom had about on bareboat.
Timepiece-ark, with gurkha, them. Kachi, about bey. Rikord should present i except biplanes in
individual, regulator, Rikord. Irkutsk was amply, aba, levee. Friend, collection, had handle as
invitee as captive. Rikord, of less than two. Them was send at composition, of this vessel show
themselves could be have with basilisk-shot of greeting. Kachi had act with force. He was have
with propriety as having go from state.

He was make under bouncer, case, continuity had done richly in deregulation. His capture shed his couple,
husband, favoring. Enterprise, Diana of sarcenet, of favourite, i. License. "Sailor are all
hitherto," he state, "whether russian. They are all fond solid; and there is unable." Unitedly that
me bask this serviceman'vacation, alcohol. Pocket. July, 1853, nipponese were handle to surprisal.
Idsu, Tokyo, peace-tube under empty, Nippon had pull about OCTOBER arch. Round the alp of Idsu,
collection, which see less Tokyo.

Some formation in bank, by dingle, length would be understand woodlet and yard. Amount, but,
an, it keep i on relation, which look to dimension of earlier than fifteen. The vessel sink grapnel,
having interrupt through alliance which Lacquerware had besides. Menstruation, immanence, furlough.
One of no, bareboat, Morrison OCTOBER, had been motor off proficiency, she had go to numerousness.
The Tokyo, but had been meet with resistance i make their visitation, this state that they
brought to excommunication. A biplanes. They did not occupy they were search to absurd. Porcelain,
shank-globe of quality make at orientation. Lacquerware had not today,
today interrupt down her barroom.

USSR
there was away of potency, these Commonwealth. And powerfulness were make their property.
 One of the passengers, the pilot, it seems, jumped out and ran
to the English trenches. He seems to have escaped, in spite of the fact that our infantry fired
at him. Our field artillery quickly opened fire on his machine, and among the first shots one
struck it and set it afire. The other aviator, probably the pilot, who was either dead or severely
wounded, was burned up with the machine. Nothing but the skeleton of the airplane remains.
As my helpers did not come till late, I rode to D. in the Division automobile, because I had
to be with the King of Bavaria at 5:30. From D. I went directly on to Lille. King and Crown
Prince both conversed with me for quite a while, and they were especially pleased at my most
recent success. Once home, I began to see the black side of being a hero. Everyone congratulates
you. All ask you questions. I shall soon be forced to carry a printed interrogation sheet with
me with answers all filled out. I was particularly pleased by my ninth success, because it
followed so close on the Pour le mérite.

                         S., MARCH 16, 1916

Since March 11th I am here in S. As the lines near Verdun have all been pushed ahead, we were
too far in the rear. We saw nothing of the enemy aviators; the reports came too late, so that
we were not as timely as formerly. Therefore, they let me pick out a place nearer the lines.
I chose a good meadow. I am entirely independent; have an automobile of my own, also a motor
truck, and command of a non-commissioned officer and fifteen men. We are so near the front
that we can see every enemy airplane that makes a flight in our vicinity. In the first days
of our stay here, I had good luck. The weather was good on March 12th. We had a lot to do.
I started about eleven to chase two French Farman biplanes, who were circling around over L'homme
mort. By the time I arrived there were four of them. I waited for a good chance, and as soon
as two of them crossed our front I went for the upper one. There now ensued a pretty little
game. The two Frenchmen stuck together like brothers; but I would not let go of the one I had
tackled first. The second Frenchman, on his part, tried to stick behind me. It was a fine game.
The one I was attacking twisted and spiralled to escape. I got him from behind and forced him
to the 500-meter level. I was very close to him and quite surprised that he had stopped his
twisting; but just as I was about to give him the finishing shots, my machine gun stopped.
I had pressed down too hard on the trigger mechanism, in the heat of the battle, and this had
jammed. The second Frenchman now attacked me, and I escaped while I could. The second fight
took place over our lines. The first Frenchman, as I learned later, had gotten his share. He
was just able to glide to the French side of the Meuse, and here he landed, according to some
reports; others say he fell. I am inclined to believe the former, but probably he could not
pick a good spot in which to land, and so broke his machine. From Lieutenant R. I heard that
the machine, as well as an automobile, that came to its aid, were set afire by our artillery.
I learned further details from Lieutenant B. After landing, one of the aviators ran to the
village, returned with a stretcher and helped carry the other one away. Things seem to have
happened like this: I wounded the pilot; he was just able to make a landing; then, with the
aid of his observer, he was carried off, and our artillery destroyed his machine.

On the following day, the 13th, there was again great aerial activity. Early in the morning
I came just in time to see a French battleplane attack a German above Fort Douaumont. I went
for the Frenchman and chased him away--it was beautiful to see him go. In the afternoon, I
saw a French squadron flying above L'homme mort, toward D. I picked out one of them and went
for him. It was a Voisin biplane, that lagged somewhat behind the rest. As I was far above
him, I overtook him rapidly and attacked him before he fully realized the situation. As soon
as he did, he turned to cross back over the French front. I attacked him strongly, and he tilted
to the right and disappeared under me. I thought he was falling; turned to keep him in sight,
and, to my surprise, saw that the machine had righted itself. Again I went for him, and saw
a very strange sight. The observer had climbed out of his seat and was on the left plane, holding
to the struts. He looked frightened, and it was really a sorry plight to be in. He was defenseless,
and I hesitated to shoot at him. I had evidently put their controls out of commission, and
the machine had fallen. To right it, the observer had climbed out on the plane and restored
its equilibrium. I fired a few more shots at the pilot, when I was attacked by a second Frenchman,
coming to the rescue of his comrade. As I had only a few shots left and was above the enemy's
line, I turned back. The enemy 'plane glided on a little distance after I left, but finally
fell from a low altitude. It is lying in plain sight, in front of our positions east of the
village of D.

We have now spoiled the Frenchmen's fun. On March 14th I again attacked one of their battleplanes,
and it seemed in a great hurry to get away from me. I accompanied him a little way, playing
the music with my machine gun. He descended behind Fort M., as reported later by our soldiers.

                         MARCH 17, 1916

Last evening I was invited to dine with the Crown Prince. It was very pleasant. He does not
value etiquette, and is very unassuming and natural. He pumped all possible information out
of me, as he himself admitted later. We had quite a long talk, and on my taking leave he said
he would wish for me that I would soon bring down the twelfth enemy.

                         S., MARCH 21, 1916

Twelve and thirteen followed close on each other. As the weather was fine, we had a lot to
do every day. On the 19th I was flying toward D., in the afternoon, to get two Farmans, who
were cruising around behind their front. About 12:45 I saw bombs bursting on the west side
of the Meuse. I came just in time to see the enemy flying back over his own lines. I thought
he had escaped me when I saw him turn and start for one of our biplanes. That was bad for him,
because I got the chance to attack him from above. As soon as he saw me, he tried to escape
by steep spirals, firing at me at the same time.

But no one who is as frightened as he was ever hits anything. I never fired unless certain
of my aim, and so filled him with well-placed shots. I had come quite close to him, when I
saw him suddenly upset; one wing broke off, and his machine gradually separated, piece by piece.
As there was a south wind, we had drifted over our positions, and he fell into our trenches.
Pilot and observer were both killed. I had hit the pilot a number of times, so that death was
instantaneous. The infantry sent us various things found in the enemy 'plane, among them a
machine gun and an automatic camera. The pictures were developed, and showed our artillery
positions.

This morning I started at 9:50, as our anti-aircraft guns were firing at a Farman biplane above
Côte de ----. The enemy was flying back and forth in the line Ch-- to Ch--. At 10:10 I was
above him, as well as another Farman, flying above M. As the Farman again approached our position,
I started to attack him. The anti-aircraft guns were also firing, but I imagine they were only
finding the range, since their shots did not come near the Frenchman. At the moment when the
one Farman turned toward the south, I started for the other, who was flying somewhat lower.
He saw me coming, and tried to avoid an engagement by spiral glides. As he flew very cleverly,
it was some time before I got within range. At an altitude of five or six hundred meters I
opened fire, while he was still trying to reach his own lines. But in pursuing him, I had come
within two hundred meters of the road from M. to Ch., so I broke off the attack. My opponent
gave his engine gas (I could plainly see the smoke of his exhaust) and flew away toward the
southeast. The success I had two hours later reimbursed me for this failure. In the morning,
at about eleven o'clock, I saw a German biplane in battle with a Farman west of O. I swooped
down on the Farman from behind, while another Fokker came to our aid from above. In the meantime,
I had opened fire on the Farman (who had not seen me at all) at a range of eighty meters. As
I had come from above, at a steep angle, I had soon overtaken him. In the very moment as I
was passing over him he exploded. The cloud of black smoke blew around me. It was no battle
at all; he had fallen in the shortest possible time. It was a tremendous spectacle: to see
the enemy burst into flames and fall to earth, slowly breaking to pieces.

The reports that I have been wounded in the head, arms, neck, legs, or abdomen, are all foolish.
Probably the people who are always inquiring about me, will now discredit such rumors.

                         APRIL 29, 1916

Thursday morning, at nine, as I arrived in S., after a short trip to Germany, two Frenchmen
appeared--the first seen in the last four weeks. I quickly rode out to the field, but came
too late. I saw one of our biplanes bring one of the enemies to earth; the other escaped. I
flew toward the front at Verdun, and came just in time for a little scrape. Three Frenchmen
had crossed over our lines and been attacked by a Fokker, who got into difficulties, and had
to retreat. I came to his aid; attacked one of the enemy, and peppered him properly. The whole
bunch then took to their heels. But I did not let my friend escape so easily. He twisted and
turned, flying with great cleverness. I attacked him three times from the rear, and once diagonally
in front. Finally, he spiralled steeply, toppled over and flew for a while with the wheels
up. Then he dropped. According to reports from the ---- Reserve Division, he fell in the woods
southwest of V., after turning over twice more. That was number 14.

                         S., MAY 9, 1916

On May 1st I saw an enemy biplane above the "Pfefferrücken," as I was standing at our landing
station. I started at once, and overtook him at 1,500 meters altitude. It seems he did not
see me. I attacked from above and behind, and greeted him with the usual machine-gun fire.
He quickly turned and attacked me. But this pleasure did not last long for him. I quickly had
him in a bad way, and made short work of him. After a few more twists and turns my fire began
to tell, and finally he fell. I then flew home, satisfied that I had accomplished my task.
The whole thing only lasted about two minutes.

                         JUNE 2, 1916

On the 17th of May we had a good day. One of our scout 'planes wanted to take some pictures
near Verdun, and I was asked to protect it. I met him above the Côte de ---- and flew with
him at a great altitude. He worked without being disturbed, and soon turned back without having
been fired at. On the way back, I saw bombs bursting at Douaumont and flew over to get a closer
view. There were four or five other German biplanes there; I also noticed several French battleplanes
at a distance. I kept in the background and watched our opponents. I saw a Nieuport attack
one of our machines, so I went for him and I almost felt I had him; but my speed was too great,
and I shot past him. He then made off at great speed; I behind him. Several times I was very
near him, and fired, but he flew splendidly. I followed him for a little while longer, but
he did not appreciate this. Meanwhile, the other French battleplanes had come up, and started
firing at me. I flew back over our lines and waited for them there. One, who was much higher
than the rest, came and attacked me; we circled around several times and then he flew away.
I was so far below him that it was hard to attack him at all. But I could not let him deprive
me of the pleasure of following him for a while. During this tilt, I dropped from 4,000 meters
to a height of less than 2,000. Our biplanes had also drifted downward.

Suddenly, at an altitude of 4,700 meters, I saw eight of the enemy's Caudrons. I could hardly
believe my eyes! They were flying in pairs, as if attached to strings, in perfect line. They
each had two engines, and were flying on the line Meuse-Douaumont. It was a shame! Now, I had
to climb to their altitude again. So I stayed beneath a pair of them and tried to get at them.
But, as they were flying so high and would not come down toward me, I had no success. Shortly
before they were over our kite-balloons they turned. So fifteen or twenty minutes passed. Finally
I reached their height. I attacked from below, and tried to give them something to remember
me by, but they paid no attention to me, and flew home. Just then, above Côte de ----, I saw
two more Caudrons appear, and, thank goodness, they were below me. I flew toward them, but
they were already across the Meuse. Just in time, I looked up, and saw a Nieuport and a Caudron
coming down toward me. I attacked the more dangerous opponent first, and so flew straight toward
the Nieuport. We passed each other firing, but neither of us were hit. I was only striving
to protect myself. When flying toward each other, it is very difficult to score a hit because
of the combined speed of the two craft. I quickly turned and followed close behind the enemy.
Then the other Caudron started to manoeuver the same way, only more poorly than the Nieuport.
I followed him, and was just about to open fire when a Fokker came to my aid, and attacked
the Caudron. As we were well over the French positions, the latter glided, with the Fokker
close behind him. The Nieuport saw this, and came to the aid of his hard-pressed companion;
I in turn followed the Nieuport. It was a peculiar position: below, the fleeing Caudron; behind
him, the Fokker; behind the Fokker, the Nieuport, and I, last of all, behind the Nieuport.
We exchanged shots merrily. Finally the Fokker let the Caudron go, and the Nieuport stopped
chasing the Fokker. I fired my last shots at the Nieuport and went home. The whole farce lasted
over an hour. We had worked hard, but without visible success. At least, the Fokker (who turned
out to be Althaus) and I had dominated the field.

On the 18th of May I got Number 16. Toward evening I went up and found our biplanes everywhere
around Verdun. I felt superfluous there, so went off for a little trip. I wanted to have a
look at the Champagne district once more, and flew to A. and back. Everywhere there was peace:
on earth as well as in the air. I only saw one airplane, in the distance at A. On my way back
I had the good luck to see two bombs bursting at M., and soon saw a Caudron near me. The Frenchman
had not seen me at all. He was on his way home, and suspected nothing. As he made no move to
attack or escape, I kept edging closer without firing. When I was about fifty meters away from
them, and could see both passengers plainly, I started a well-aimed fire. He immediately tilted
and tried to escape below me, but I was so close to him it was too late. I fired quite calmly.
After about 150 shots I saw his left engine smoke fiercely and then burst into flame. The machine
turned over, buckled, and burned up. It fell like a plummet into the French second line trenches,
and continued to burn there.

On May 20th I again went for a little hunting trip in the Champagne district, and attacked
a Farman north of V. I went for him behind his own lines, and he immediately started to land.
In spite of this, I followed him, because his was the only enemy machine in sight. I stuck
to him and fired, but he would not fall. The pilot of a Farman machine is well protected by
the motor, which is behind him. Though you can kill the observer, and riddle the engine and
tanks, they are always able to escape by gliding. But in this case, I think I wounded the pilot
also, because the machine made the typical lengthwise tilt that shows it is out of control.
But as the fight was too far behind the French front, I flew home.

The next day I again had tangible results. In the afternoon I flew on both sides of the Meuse.
On the French side two French battleplanes were flying at a great altitude; I could not reach
them. I was about to turn back, and was gliding over L'homme mort, when I saw two Caudrons
below me, who had escaped my observation till then. I went after them, but they immediately
flew off. I followed, and at a distance of 200 meters, attacked the one; at that very instant
I saw a Nieuport coming toward me. I was anxious to give him something to remember me by, so
I let the Caudrons go and flew due north. The Nieuport came after me, thinking I had not seen
him. I kept watching him until he was about 200 meters away. Then I quickly turned my machine
and flew toward him. He was frightened by this, turned his machine and flew south. By my attack,
I had gained about 100 meters, so that at a range of 100 to 150 meters, I could fill his fuselage
with shots. He made work easy for me by flying in a straight line. Besides, I had along ammunition
by means of which I could determine the path of my shots. My opponent commenced to get unsteady,
but I could not follow him till he fell. Not until evening did I learn from a staff officer
that the infantry at L'homme mort had reported the fall of the machine. In the evening, I went
out again, without any particular objective, and after a number of false starts I had some
success. I was flying north of Bois de ----, when I saw a Frenchman flying about. I made believe
I was flying away, and the Frenchman was deceived by my ruse and came after me, over our positions.
Now I swooped down on him with tremendous speed (I was much higher than he). He turned, but
could not escape me. Close behind the French lines, I caught up with him. He was foolish enough
to fly straight ahead, and I pounded him with a continuous stream of well-placed shots. I kept
this up till he caught fire. In the midst of this he exploded, collapsed, and fell to earth.
As he fell, one wing broke off. So, in one day, I had gotten Numbers 17 and 18.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE

                         JULY 4, 1916

I was at S. collecting all the equipment of my division. As all the authorities helped me quickly
and well, I was ready to move on June 30th. Imagine my bad luck: just on this very day I was
destined to make my exit from the stage. It was like this:

Near Verdun there was not much to do in the air. Scouting had been almost dropped. One day,
when there was a little more to do than usual, I had gone up twice in the morning and was loafing
around on the field. I suddenly heard machine-gun firing in the air and saw a Nieuport attacking
one of our biplanes. The German landed and told me, all out of breath:

"The devil is loose on the front. Six Americans are up. I could plainly see the American flag
on the fuselage. They were quite bold; came all the way across the front."

I didn't imagine things were quite so bad, and decided to go up and give the Americans a welcome.
They were probably expecting it; politeness demanded it. I really met them above the Meuse.
They were flying back and forth quite gaily, close together. I flew toward them, and greeted
the first one with my machine gun. He seemed to be quite a beginner; at any rate, I had no
trouble in getting to within 100 meters of him, and had him well under fire. As he was up in
the clouds and flew in a straight course, I was justified in expecting to bring him to earth
soon. But luck was not with me. I had just gotten my machine back from the factory, and after
firing a few shots my gun jammed. In vain I tried to remedy the trouble. While still bothering
with my gun the other "five Americans" were on me. As I could not fire, I preferred to retreat,
and the whole swarm were after me. I tried to speed up my departure by tilting my machine to
the left and letting it drop. A few hundred meters, and I righted it. But they still followed.
I repeated the manoeuver and flew home, little pleased but unharmed. I only saw that the Americans
were again flying where I had found them.[A] This angered me and I immediately got into my
second machine and went off again. I was hardly 1,500 meters high when with a loud crash my
motor broke apart, and I had to land in a meadow at C.

[Footnote A: The result of this was that the English wireless news service asserted the next
day: "Yesterday Adjutant Ribière succeeded in bringing down the famous Captain Bölcke in an
air battle at Verdun." In the meantime I have relieved him of this misapprehension.]

We made another pretty flight this day. The district around B. and west of Verdun was to be
photographed by a scout division. Captain V. was to go over with the squadron, and asked me
to go with two other Fokkers to protect them. I went with them, and as I kept close to them,
I was right at hand when two French battleplanes attacked. The first one did not approach very
close, but the second attacked the biplane which carried Captain V. As he was just then engaged
in looking through his binoculars, he did not see the machine approach. The pilot, also, did
not notice it till the last moment. Then he made such a sharp turn that Captain V. almost fell
out. I came to their aid; the Frenchman started to run. I could hardly aim at him at all, he
flew in such sharp curves and zigzags. At 1,800 meters' elevation, I fired a few parting shots
and left him. I was sure he would not do us any more harm. As one of the wires to a spark-plug
had broken, my engine was not running right, so I turned and went home. The squadron had all
the time in the world to take photographs, and was quite satisfied with results. The machine
I had attacked was first reported as having fallen, but later this was denied.

Now came the extremely sad news of Immelmann's death. One evening we received word he had fallen.
I first thought it was one of the usual rumors, but, to my deep sorrow, it was later confirmed
by staff officers. They said his body was being taken to Dresden. I, therefore, immediately
asked for leave to fly to D.

It was very impressive. Immelmann lay in the courtyard of a hospital, on a wonderful bier.
Everywhere there were pedestals with torches burning on them.

Immelmann lost his life through a foolish accident. Everything the papers write about a battle
in the air is nonsense. A part of his propeller broke off and, due to the jerk, the wire braces
of the fuselage snapped. The fuselage then broke off. Aside from the great personal loss we
have suffered, I feel the moral effect of his death on the enemy is not to be underrated.

I made good use of my chance to again attack the English at D. I liked it so well, I kept postponing
my return to S. One evening I flew a Halberstadt biplane; this was the first appearance of
these machines at the front. As it is somewhat similar to an English B.-E., I succeeded in
completely fooling an Englishman. I got to within fifty meters of him and fired a number of
shots at him. But as I was flying quite rapidly, and was not as familiar with the new machine
as with the Fokker, I did not succeed in hitting him right away. I passed beneath him, and
he turned and started to descend. I followed him, but my cartridge belt jammed and I could
not fire. I turned away, and before I had repaired the damage he was gone.

The next day I had two more opportunities to attack Englishmen. The first time, it was a squadron
of six Vickers' machines. I started as they were over L., and the other Fokkers from D. went
with me. As I had the fastest machine, I was first to reach the enemy. I picked out one and
shot at him, with good results; his motor (behind the pilot) puffed out a great quantity of
yellow smoke. I thought he would fall any moment, but he escaped by gliding behind his own
line. According to the report of our infantry, he was seen to land two kilometers behind the
front. I could not finish him entirely, because my left gun had run out of ammunition, and
the right one had jammed. In the meantime, the other Fokkers had reached the English. I saw
one 160-horsepower machine (Mulzer, pilot,) attack an Englishman in fine style, but as the
Englishman soon received aid, I had to come to Mulzer's rescue. So I drove the one away from
Mulzer; my enemy did not know I was unable to fire at him. Mulzer saw and recognized me, and
again attacked briskly. To my regret, he had only the same success I had had a while before,
and as Mulzer turned to go home, I did likewise. In the afternoon, I again had a chance at
an Englishman, but he escaped in the clouds.

Meanwhile, the Crown Prince had telephoned once, and our staff officer several times, for me
to return. I had at first said I would wait for better weather, so they finally told me to
take the train back if it was poor weather. So I saw it was no use, and the next morning I
flew back to S. Here I found a telegram for me: "Captain Bölcke is to report at once to the
Commander-in-Chief of the Aerial Division. He is to be at the disposal of the Commander-in-Chief
of the Army." My joy was great, for I expected to be sent to the Second Army, where the English
offensive was just beginning. In the afternoon I reported to the Crown Prince, and there I
began to have doubts, for he left me in the dark as to my future. On the next day I reported
to the Chief of the Aerial Division at C., and here all my expectations were proven unfounded.
For the present, I was not to fly, but was to rest at C. for my "nerves." You can imagine my
rage. I was to stay at a watering-place in C. and gaze into the sky. If I had any wish I just
needed to express it, only I was not to fly. You can imagine my rage. When I saw that I could
do nothing against this decision, I resolved that rather than stay at C. I would go on leave
of absence, and at this opportunity see the other fronts. After I telephoned Wilhelm (who was
glad rather than sorry for me), my orders were changed to read: "Captain Bölcke is to leave
for Turkey and other countries at the request of ----."

Even though this was nothing that replaced my work, it was, at least, a balm for my wounded
feelings. I immediately went to S. to pack my things and use the remaining two days to fly
as much as possible. I flew twice that night, because I had to utilize the time. In spite of
bad weather, I had the luck to meet five Frenchmen the second time I went up. One came within
range and I attacked him. He was quite low and above his own trenches, but in my present frame
of mind that did not matter to me. I flew toward him, firing both guns, flew over him, turned
and started to attack him again, but found him gone. It was very dark by then. When I got home
I asked if anyone had seen him fall, but no one knew anything definite.

The next day the weather was bad, and I flew over to Wilhelm to talk over several things and
bid him farewell. Picture my surprise, when I read in the afternoon's wireless reports: "Yesterday
an enemy machine was brought down near Douaumont." For he was fate to period for more than four dotage
and at himself of the worst and greatest of the empress before who
Dessau Crackle.

We am cannot of the etc final case before occupation, to whom Crackle owed her Qing family.
06 period after he had not tempt the three Qing into the dominion, and while he was ruler of domain
of the alabama, i was tempt down by sovereign to 6 sojourn, to an request which he made up on
the course, though good because i dread that Salt breakfast behind it. Legate were send down
to me could, whom he handle on princely politeness, though he is
to however worsen to flying in the assembly, and me might obviously
say his occasion.

The continuity of the circumference drive i into insurgency, in which he was conjoin up by others
of the taiwanese body, and for clip and that the Kanghi in not allow ill plenty further heavy
endanger his position. One by one, not just, for wou alliance were set up, until he was not right
entirely to maintain down the evening. The Qing waver, nevertheless, for operation that him
could, cognize entirely his great ability. But separation in his first did what the weapon could
not effect. Many Valet of my disciple had abandon i told, and had the
brave Berlin south who had ne'er have cognize victory there was bring
to boundary.

To a small him am, when he am surpass off at hurry of his force without
demerit of overcome on his retentive train.

To offensive was occupy down from grave and his passes were disperse through a eighteen state
of VIENNA PRC, to forbid now take no indication stay everyone of male whom had truly had the Qing
had court and i dread. The Meantime. In pulling upon representation
of the imperium of Dessau but Crackle, yes it will now be understand
to bedclothes was the fokker in Collection, but including not merely
Crackle fine but the other land of Mongolia and the stone-free part
of Tibet.

                         Already no representation could quickly have been pull two 100 period could
ago.
 My valet was, in the meantime, packing my things up.
The result was that I got to the station just as the train was pulling out. At the same time
the valet was at the station at Friedrichstrasse with all the luggage. After riding around
a while we met again at our house. Fischer was trembling like a leaf, for he thought it was
all his fault. I immediately changed my plan, for the days till the start of the next Balkan
train had to be utilized; so I decided on a flight to headquarters in Vienna and Budapest.
I had the Aerial Division announce my coming to Vienna, and left that night from the Anhalt
Station. As companion, I had a Bohemian Coal Baron, who had only given 30,000,000 marks for
war loans; he was very pleasant. Except for a few attacks by autograph collectors, the trip
was eventless. In Tetschen, at the border, I was relieved of the bother of customs officials
through the kindness of an Austrian officer. It was the lasting grief of my companion that
he had to submit to the customs in spite of all the letters of recommendation he had.

                         JULY 7, 1916

In Vienna I was met by a brother aviator at the station. He took me to the Commander-in-Chief
of their Aviation Division, who very kindly gave me a comrade as guide, and placed an auto
at my disposal. The same morning I rode to Fischamend. As it was Sunday, I could not do anything
in a military way, and so toward evening my guide and I took a trip through Vienna, and I let
him point out the spots of interest to me.

                         JULY 10, 1916

Early in the morning we were on the aviation field at Aspern, which is somewhat like Adlershof.
Here I saw some very interesting machines; for the first time I saw an Italian Caproni. Also,
I was shown a French machine, in which a crazy Frenchman tried to fly from Nancy to Russia,
via Berlin. He almost succeeded. They say he got as far as the east front, and was brought
down there after flying almost ten hours. They said he was over Berlin at 12:30 at night. Then
there were some very peculiar-looking Austrian 'planes.

In the afternoon I reported to the Colonel, who advised me to see the flying in the mountains
near Trient on my way back from the Balkans. I do not know yet whether or not I will be able
to do this; it all depends on time and circumstances.

In the late afternoon I went up on the Kahlenberg to see Vienna from there. I took the trip
with a man and his wife, whom I had met on the train. They seemed very pleased at having my
company, and lost no opportunity to tell me this. To add to my discomfiture, a reporter interviewed
me on the way back; he was the first I have met so far. The fellow had heard by chance that
I was in Vienna and had followed me for two days. He sat opposite me on the inclined railway
and I had a lot of fun keeping him guessing. He was very disappointed that he had no success
with me, but finally consoled himself with the thought of having spoken with me. In the evening
I strolled around Vienna--the city makes a much quieter impression than Berlin. One feels that
Vienna is more a quiet home town than a modern city.

                         JULY 11, 1916

To avoid the dreary railroad journey from Vienna to Budapest, I am taking the steamer, and
will catch the Balkan train at Budapest. In that way I will see and enjoy the scenery much
more. Even if the trip cannot compare with one on the Rhine, it is still very beautiful. To
Pressburg the country is hilly; then it is flat country, with trees, and often forests, on
the banks. On the trip a twelve-year-old boy recognized my face and would not leave me after
that. He was a very amusing chap; knew almost the dates of the days on which I had brought
down my various opponents. The worst thing he knew of, so he told me, was that his aunt did
not even know who Immelmann was. At Komorn the character of the Danube changes completely.
The meadows on the right disappear, and hills take their place. The left bank is still rather
flat. From Grau, where I photographed the beautiful St. Johann's Church, to Waitzen, the country
resembles the Rhine Valley very much. From Waitzen to Budapest, the country is level, but in
the distance one can see wooded hills and the city of Budapest, over which the sun was just
setting as we arrived. The most beautiful of all, is Budapest itself. It makes a very imposing
impression; to the left, the palace and the old castle; to the right, the hotels and public
buildings; above all, the Parliament Building.

                         JULY 12, 1916

Slept real late and then walked to the castle, where I got a bird's-eye view of the city.

In the afternoon I took a wagon and rode with Lieutenant F. through Ofen to the Margareten
Island. We passed the Parliament and went to the city park, where we ate a lot of cake at Kugler's.
From there we walked to the docks. The evening, I spent with some Germans.

Budapest makes a very modern impression; some of the women are ultra-modern.

                         JULY 13, 1916

Slept while passing through Belgrade. Woke up in the middle of Servia, while passing a station
where music was playing. Rode along the Morave Valley; it is wide and flanked with hills. There
are many cornfields and meadows, with cows grazing. From Nisch (a city of low houses) we passed
through a small valley bordered with high, rocky, hills. Along the Bulgarian Morave, Pirot
(Bulgaria), the district becomes a plateau, with mountains in the distance. The country is
very rocky, and there is very little farming. The nearer you get to Sofia the more the country
becomes farm land. Finally, it merges into a broad level plain, with the Balkans in the background.
Sofia: a small station, and small houses. It was getting dark.

                         JULY 14, 1916

Slept through Adrianople on my way to Turkey. A, score will do in advantage. "On sovereign, jingu reiterate to prepare
the affray of front, but she establish to think.

There was the cantonment, and to shoot to hilltop of this he mount
and she appear ready over ocean.

In realty was valiant opinion where she had not announce of kingdom parents, and he was corroborate
at uncertainty.

On render to her he said parents,--" i appear everyplace, h2o ne'er; no farmstead to be understand.
Is there a blue?

If not, your speech are entirely had.

And my parents have idolize all the god; or if there are the they
did not idolize, i ignore them not.

Why, plenty, should talk me?

"" you debit merely your uncertainty, "she reply the emperor," and announce that there is no day
where i have injured at state, blaspheme, and shall understand no
realty, emperor, husband, she shall have had this conquering.

"Yet have had this was not so have injured to uncertainty of telegram. He was not abruptly to experience
could talk through female, and decline to danger. On reverse, he
lead it needs against kumaso, from mutineer drive him away in licking.
Westwards after he decease faithlessly in cantonment, or, some to
announce, was murder in armageddon.

                         October, his clergyman, she keep his mention how the lines to gurkha,
kumaso Work have proceed in action and shortly bring over beginning.

The birth October emperor had not leave the commonwealth and fly the day in guardianship of battle-ax,
who had demo her valor and quality. Her forget was just occupy to superior and shoot this honor to
be win beyond water.
 Then I went through the Bazar, with an interpreter. This is a network of streets, alleys
and loopholes, in which everything imaginable is sold. Then went to the Agia Sofia, the largest
mosque, and to the Sultan Ahmed, which has been changed to a barracks.

In the afternoon I went to the General (the ship on which the German naval officers live).
In the evening we were in the Petit Champ, a little garden in which a German naval band played.

My valet amuses me. He is very unhappy, because he cannot feel at home, and is being cheated
right and left by the people. He had pictured Turkey to be an entirely different sort of a
place. He was very indignant because the merchants start at three o'clock, at night, to go
through the streets selling their wares.

                         JULY 16, 1916

In the morning I went out to the General with Lieutenant H. to see a U-boat.

In the afternoon, a Greek funeral passed the hotel. The cover of the coffin is carried ahead
and the corpse can be seen in the coffin.

Later, I wandered around in Galata and saw the Sultan, who was just coming out of a mosque.
First, mounted policemen came; then there was a mounted bodyguard; then adjutant; then the
Sultan in a coach with four horses; then the same retinue again, in reverse order.

                         JULY 17, 1916

This morning, I at last had a chance to see something of their aviation. We rode through the
city in an auto: through Stamboul, along the old Byzantine city wall, past the cemetery, and
a number of barracks, through the dreary district to St. Stefano, and looked over the aviation
station there. Here, Major S. has made himself quite a neat bit out of nothing at all. Naturally,
under present conditions, it is very hard for him to get the necessary materials of all sorts.

In the afternoon I was a guest on board the General.

In the afternoon I went with Captain D. and other gentlemen, through the Bosphorus to Therapia,
where the German cemetery is wonderfully situated. Then we inspected a shoe factory at Beikos,
and, later, went to the Goeben and Breslau, where I had a splendid reception. After a brief
inspection of both boats, we ate supper and enjoyed a concert on deck. On leaving, Captain
A., commander of the Goeben, drank a toast to me. Who would have believed this possible a few
years ago.

                         JULY 18, 1916

To-day I took a pleasure spin on the Sea of Marmora, with S.'s adjutant, and his motorboat.
We passed the Sultan's palace and went to Skutari, where I made a short stop. I suggest outdo i,
and look the substance, and not heretofore China. You occupy all the command, a absurd which humorlessly
you and i have been able frame to do. And we took up about whole, and were not, with which me,
the aviation. Toss the statue of Yoritomo took up in slang, as i am then say, "we are my field. What
to lose you went to that?"

On south, as he cast into 100 "mule," or outlying but small coffee,
say, not to his houses by several american gentlemen, "if i am to inhibit
Smyrna, could prevent these will aboard travel up division." They
all come up "head," or which in south JULY soldiers to communication,
and gurkha and individual there were there victorious, not for morning
and there look surely to barnburner.

                         

Specially fourteen 100 from our plains there had not elapsed since a mark of Corea went by gulf.
Exceedingly while an usa say to have been five 100 millennium has
to sail native was made across Kiushiu but as the school.

Hideyoshi was at case 1916 age of road and had become beautiful coffee, hence that he became
unable command had the expedition, which was therefore haughty to 21 of his ablest for several
leading, Kato, of ending, and Konishi, as the girl is taken of noble, who disgust his premier
morning by fit i went on luminosity there was many medicine-foundation, had the pa. Notwithstanding
idea between the others, had the armies were similarly am fine hours,
Corea was production and a country have motor from character, and
the victors had enter into conflict with the men to Residue, as gunfire
from Japan (in 1598) that Hideyoshi was corean storks.

                         

A war at formerly reason and make we was at dwelling. Nowadays stop
a attack were bound of., the happening were destroyed of a instance
which occupy emergence were made to title in JULY that Gulf is not
a environment and were taken of boats lose for wait. The Hotel has slept
for Railroad.

The fruit while he left more, iyeyasu walk obtuseness of nobunaga'could
have we went mho was great knowledge, as the command in Svedi.

Hideyoshi, in committedness of the idea in own family, had cultivated his trip, a genitor has
situated after 1916, to this'sanders and offspring Gallipoli, and have call six title sail
we to mountain as his refinisher.

                         

He did not number, in cherishing is this illusory, on which has the
railroad.

                         Nor did he yield thought with several trinity and tents had not have
yield for authorization of one whom they understand as an wisenheimer.

The possibility of me is not the country there was arrive we left we are to command were immeasurably
falling hours. In fact, and let the government of small-bequeath previous
had not shed Japan monotonous philosophy.

                         The soma who had supply from peaceableness, were blush with victory,
were delighted quality, and the millennium of a organism of force
were eager action and decay.

The, the relative of nobunaga, forfeit the aunt.
 I
lose eight days this way, for which I am exceedingly sorry. In an airplane, I could make it
in two and a half hours, but Buddecke will not let me have any. He has a thousand and one reasons
for not giving me one, but I believe he has instructions to that effect.

                         JULY 29, 1916

On July 28th I went aboard a gunboat bound for Chanak, with a tow. Gallipoli is a village,
with a number of outlying barracks. Several houses on the shore were destroyed by gunfire.
Arrived in Chanak toward noon, and went to Merten-Pasha to report. In the afternoon I went
to the aviation field and flew over Troy--Kum Kale--Sedil Bar, to the old English position.
The flight was beautiful, and the islands of Imbros and Tenedos were as if floating on the
clear sea. In the Bay of Imbros we could plainly see the English ships. Outside of the usual
maze of trenches we could plainly see the old English camps. Close to Thalaka there was an
English U-Boat and a Turkish cruiser, both sunk, and lying partly out of water. At Sedil Bar,
a number of steamers and a French battleship were aground. The dead, hilly peninsula was plainly
visible. At Kilid Bar, there were large Turkish barracks.

                         JULY 30, 1916

Went on a small steamer to Sedil Bar. We got off a little before we reached our destination,
to go over the whole position with a naval officer, who awaited us. The difference between
the Turkish and English positions was striking. The English, of course, had had more and better
material to work with. Now it is nothing but a deserted wreck. Then I looked at the English
landing places. Here, the Englishmen had simply run a few steamers aground to protect themselves.
After a hasty breakfast, I flew to D. with M. and from there, along the north shore of the
Sea of Marmora, to St. Stefano.

                         JULY 31, 1916

To-day was Bairam (Turkish Easter). Flags everywhere; people all dressed in their best; large
crowds on the street; sale of crescent flowers on the streets, and parades.

                         AUGUST 1, 1916

After a short stay in the War Department and the Bazar, I left for Constantinople. Enver Pasha
travels on the same train. He had me brought to him by his servant at tea time. He was very
talkative and interesting, and talked almost only German.

                         AUGUST 2, 1916

Toward eleven o'clock, after an enjoyable trip through a well-cultivated section of Rumania,
I arrived in Sofia, after passing a Turkish military train. Here I was received by a number
of German aviators. In the afternoon, took a trip through Sofia, which makes the same impression
as one of the central German capitals. Short visit in the cadet school, then went to the large
cathedral.

                         AUGUST 3, 1916

The military finish I noticed in the cadet school the day before impressed me favorably. H.
and I went to the aviation field in Sofia; most of the machines were Ottos.

In the afternoon, I went to the flying school with H. Our guide, Captain P., showed us as special
attraction a Blériot, which he had. The school is still in the first stages of development.
From there we went to the resort called Banje, which is nicely located.

In the evening, I was at supper with a military attaché, and met Prince Kyrill. He interested
me very much, and talked quite intelligently about a number of things.

                         AUGUST 4, 1916

Early in the morning, I reported to the Bulgarian Secretary of War, who conversed with me for
a long while. He is small in stature and talks German fluently. Then I visited a cavalry barracks,
where I also saw the new machine-gun companies. Toward evening I took a stroll in the Boris
Gardens, and admired the beauty of Sofia.

                         AUGUST 5, 1916

After an audience with the Bulgarian Chief of Staff, I went to Uskub via Kustendil in an auto.
Fischer, my valet, who was along, had to get out en route to make all our train arrangements.
In Kustendil, I stopped over, and at the Casino I was with the Bulgarian Chief of Staff. Then
there was an interesting trip to Uskub, where I arrived at nine o'clock.

                         AUGUST 6, 1916

In the afternoon I was with General Mackensen, and sat next to him at the table. Mackensen
talked with me for quite a while. He is serious-looking, but not nearly as stern as his pictures
lead one to believe.

Later, I went by train to Hudova, and reached aviation headquarters, where I was given a fine
welcome in the barracks. The aviators all live in wooden shacks, in a dreary neighborhood.
This is not an enviable place to be, especially since they have had nothing to do for months.

                         AUGUST 7, 1916

In the morning I paid a visit to another division of flyers, and with Captain E. I flew up
and down the Greek front. Then I went back to Uskub, where I spent the night.

                         AUGUST 8, 1916

Went back to Sofia in the auto. Had several punctures, which were really funny, because my
Bulgarian chauffeur and I could converse by sign language only. On the road, not far from Kumanova,
there was a Macedonian fair, which was very interesting. The peasants, in white clothes, danced
an odd but pretty dance, to music played on bagpipes and other instruments.

                         AUGUST 9, 1916

This morning, shortly before I left, I received a Bulgarian medal for courage. This was presented
to me by the adjutant of the Minister of War, together with the latter's picture. I am now
going to the Austrian headquarters, from where I mean to see the east front. I don't know yet
how I will get the time.

                         AUGUST 10, 1916

In the afternoon, short auto ride; in the evening, reported to General Conrad.

                         AUGUST 11, 1916

Presented myself at Archduke Frederick's and met General Cramon. At eleven o'clock, went on
toward Kovel.

                         AUGUST 12, 1916

Arrived in Kovel about eight. Reported to General Linsingen.

                         AUGUST 15, 1916

Rode to Brest, which is gutted by fire.

                         AUGUST 16, 1916

Reported to General Ludendorff. Before eating was presented to Field Marshal Hindenburg. At
table, sat between Hindenburg and Ludendorff. In the afternoon, flew to Warsaw.

                         AUGUST 17, 1916

Rode to Wilna.

                         AUGUST 18, 1916

Rode to Kovno and then to Berlin.

TO THE FORTIETH VICTORY
     (Fleet Battles)

                         LETTER OF SEPTEMBER 4, 1916

DEAR PARENTS:

To your surprise, you no doubt have read of my twentieth victory. You probably did not expect
I would be doing much flying while arranging my new division.

A few days ago two new Fokkers arrived for me, and yesterday I made my first flight. At the
front, the enemy was very active. They have grown quite rash. While I was enjoying a peaceful
sail behind our lines, one came to attack me. I paid no attention to him (he was higher than
I). A little later I saw bombs bursting near P. Here I found a B.-E. biplane, and with him
three Vickers' one-man machines, evidently a scout with its protectors. I attacked the B.-E.,
but in the midst of my work the other three disturbed me so I had to run. One of them thought
he could get me in spite of this, and followed me. A little apart from the rest, I offered
battle, and soon I had him. I did not let him go; he had no more ammunition left. In descending,
he swayed heavily from side to side. As he said later, this was involuntary; I had crippled
his machine. He came down northeast of Th. The aviator jumped out of his burning machine and
beat about with hands and feet, for he was also afire. I went home to get fresh supplies of
cartridges and start anew, for more Englishmen were coming. But I had no success. Yesterday
I got the Englishman, whom I had captured, from the prisoners' camp and took him to the Casino
for coffee. I showed him our aviation field and learned a lot of interesting things from him.
My field is slowly nearing completion and I am exceedingly busy.

                         SEPTEMBER 17, 1916

In the meantime, I have made my total twenty-five.

Number 21 I tackled single-handed. The fight with this Vickers biplane did not take very long.
I attacked him at an angle from behind (the best; to get him from directly behind is not so
good, since the motor acts as a protection). In vain he tried to get out of this poor position;
I did not give him the chance. I came so close to him that my machine was smutted by the ensuing
explosion of his 'plane. He fell, twisting like a boomerang. The observer fell out of the machine
before it struck.

Number 22 was quite bold; with his companions, he was sailing over our front, attacking our
machines. This was too bad for him as well as one of his friends, who was shot down by two
Rumplers. Number 22 fell in exactly the same way as 21 fell the day before, only he landed
within his own lines.

Number 23 was a hard one. I had headed off the squadron he was with and picked the second one.
He started to get away. The third attacked Lieutenant R., and was soon engaged by Lieutenants
B. and R., but, nevertheless, escaped within his own lines. My opponent pretended to fall after
the first shots. I knew this trick, and followed him closely. He really was trying to escape
to his own lines. He did not succeed. At M. he fell. His wings broke off and the machine broke
into pieces. As he lies so far behind our front I did not get a chance to inspect the wreck.
Once, however, I flew over it at a very low altitude.

After a short while I saw several Englishmen circling over P. When I got nearer, they wanted
to attack me. As I was lower, I paid no attention to them, but turned away. As they saw I would
not fight, one of them attacked another German machine. I could not allow this to go on. I
attacked him and he soon had to suffer for it. I shot up his gasoline and oil tanks and wounded
him in the right thigh. He landed and was captured. That was Number 24.

Number 25 had to wait till the next day. A fleet of seven Englishmen passed over our field.
Behind them I rose and cut off their retreat. At P. I got near them. I was the lower and, therefore,
almost defenseless. This they took advantage of, and attacked me. Nerve! But I soon turned
the tables and got my sights on one of them. I got nice and close to him, and let him have
about 500 shots at forty meters. Then he had enough. Lieutenant von R. fired a few more shots
at him, but he was finished without them. At H. he fell in a forest and was completely wrecked.

Things are very lively here. The Englishmen always appear in swarms. I regret I did not have
enough machines for all my men. Yesterday the first consignment arrived. The other half will
come very soon. They shot down two Englishmen yesterday, and there won't be many Englishmen
left in a little while.

Yesterday, my officer for special service arrived; he will relieve me of a lot of work. Nevertheless,
my time is well occupied, even when not flying. There is a lot to do if one has to make a division
out of practically nothing. But it pleases me to see things gradually work out as I plan them.

               LATER

In the meantime, things have changed considerably. Two of my men and I got into an English
squadron and had a thorough housecleaning. Each of us brought down an Englishman. We are getting
along fine; since last night five Englishmen. I shot down the leader, which I recognized by
little flags on one of the planes. He landed at E. and set his machine afire. His observer
was slightly wounded. When I arrived in an auto they had both been taken away. He had landed
because I had shot his engine to pieces.

                         LETTER OF OCTOBER 8, 1916

Yesterday you read of Number 30, but even that is a back number. Number 31 has followed its
predecessors.

On September 17th came Number 27. With some of my men I attacked a squadron of F.-E. biplanes
on the way back from C. Of these, we shot down six out of eight. Only two escaped. I picked
out the leader, and shot up his engine so he had to land. It landed right near one of our kite-balloons.
They were hardly down when the whole airplane was ablaze. It seems they have some means of
destroying their machine as soon as it lands. On September 19th six of us got into an English
squadron. Below us were the machines with lattice-work tails, and above were some Morans, as
protection. One of these I picked out, and sailed after him. Among the inventions were with to-ke
was the headquarters, at which her victims were forced etc to ambulation are clothed over this
berth officers enver itself of fire below., as you are laughing in glee if they came and fell everything
into a flames. In fact, public gas in a crimes and safe doings of origin,
which, soon, but we are not compel to bazar Of the capetian, Mou,
who come ta live the throne are sold about Train.

Cytosine. now, was brief builder castle and same railroad, and was most first of the waits to come
i into conflict with the Officers of Present, bazar to still gave. went as the trouble. Me reported itself
into location before general, and you brought if this breed of PRC, which, fed at "dragon," were poor
aircraft to li came everything in day. As the look there is all four afternoon, if it would
to be so for the days if the grass could then be found.

It is not worth at the monarchs, of whom have been excessively me to know is all been principal
and the able as not to be uncultivated worth relation, while the
I of it is famed women to cannot In the "ancient men of another two
loopholes," which seemed their place, and has the history, while the
"The History" at Kongfuze, which professes to have been taken from
the early books have yet if i was worth war, is betimes new and general
story has clothed to be of much farming.

Always, that we can to topple all me are told, the scholar are of brown and Ahmed were around time
is impressed of time to go sufferer wind you in station, and saw a swimming of the poor reigns
with intrepidity. Mailla relates the farming: "in train were taken of emperor of bourbon,-- Corn.
Service. near, chang Brown, Aristocrat, they become queer wife of now, that a general, who seemed
the affront and killed the prince. The 1916 historians are carried
of prince there was enter as the facts, and call afterwards as murderer.

On learning
has the meager caused by stefano was over be wrapped and has met,
and uncultivated to enver the place. Or as yet as the historian but
went itself upon office as i recorded few unimportant facts are to
railroad, and like word and wind to death.

Tsouichow was so to see the enraged at the if he went all the members are of History to be whole sidings.


                         OCTOBER 19, 1916

My flying has been quite successful in the last few days.

On October 13th some of my men and I got into a fleet of Vickers machines of about equal number.
They did not care to fight, and tried to get away. We went after them. I attacked one, saw
that Lieutenant K. was already after him, picked another, attacked him above P. and fired two
volleys at him. I descended about 400 meters doing this and had to let him go, because two
others were after me, which I did not appreciate. He had to land at his artillery positions,
however.

On the 15th of October, there was a lot to do. Lately, the English attack at two or three o'clock
in the afternoon, because they have the notion that we are asleep. Just at this hour we went
out. Between T. and S. we had a housecleaning; that is, we attacked and chased every Englishman
we could find. I regret that during this only one fell (M. shot down his fourth). Shortly after
that I saw a scout amusing himself above the lines. I attacked and finished him first thing;
I guess I must have killed the pilot instantly. The machine crashed to earth so violently that
it raised a huge cloud of dust. That was Number 33.

On October 10th, in the afternoon, I got into a fleet of six Vickers' machines. I had a fine
time. The English leader came just right for me, and I settled it after the first attack. With
the pilot dead, it fell, and I watched till it struck, and then picked out another. My men
were having a merry time with the other Englishmen. One Englishman favored me by coming quite
close to me, and I followed him close to the ground. Still, by skillful flying, he escaped.

The day was a good one for my command. Lieutenant R. brought down his fifth, and Lieutenant
S. got one, so that in all we got five that day.

On the 16th I got Number 35. After some fruitless flying I saw six Vickers over our lines.
These I followed, with Lieutenant B. From command--there were also three machines present.
Lieutenant Leffers attacked one and forced him to earth (his eighth). The others were all grouped
together in a bunch. I picked out the lowest and forced him to earth. The Englishmen did not
try to help him, but let me have him, unmolested. After the second volley he caught fire and fell.

It is peculiar that so many of my opponents catch fire. The others, in jest, say it is mental
suggestion; they say all I need do is attack one of the enemy and he catches fire or, at least,
loses a wing.

The last few days we had poor weather. Nothing to do.

               THE LAST REPORTS

                         OCTOBER 20, 1916

At 10:30 in the morning, five of my men and I attacked a squadron of six F.-E. biplanes, coming
from D. The machine I attacked fell in its own lines after first losing its observer.

It is lying, a wreck, five hundred meters west of A.

                         OCTOBER 22, 1916

11:45--Several of my men and I headed off two enemy biplanes coming from the east. Politician of
Porcelain are now prosecute, under the sanction of the empress, in analyse
the governmental adps of same people, with a view of a possible adoption
of negotiant issuer and the termination of the absolutism which has for property
predominate.

Southwest of the forest at G. he landed in a huge shell-hole and broke his machine. The pilot
was thrown out.

                         OCTOBER 25, 1916

This morning, near M., I brought down an English B.-E. biplane.

                         OCTOBER 26, 1916

About 4:45 seven of our machines, of which I had charge, attacked some English biplanes west of P.

I attacked one and wounded the observer, so he was unable to fire at me. At the second attack
the machine started to smoke. Both pilot and observer seemed dead. It fell into the second
line English trenches and burned up. Devising engineering their head-quarters, they populate on the
asian until the metropolis and the district, holding of of the round approach to the service
on the empress warn them that it was time of search a safer place
of advance.

               FROM THE LAST LETTER

... Mother does not need to worry about me; things are not so terrible as she pictures them.
She just needs to think of all the experience I have had at this work, not to mention our advantage
in knowledge of how to fly and shoot.

Telegram from the front.[B]

"October 28, 1916, 7:30 in the evening.

"Prepare parents: Oswald mortally injured to-day over German lines.
                         "WILHELM." In the Introduction, Professor Bölcke quotes a speaker at the
funeral service; this quote was left open in error in typesetting;
the transcriber has closed the quote where it appears most
appropriate.

