There is one more point in fielding the catcher's position upon which a few words will not
be amiss, that is, as to touching a runner coming home. There is a difference of opinion as
to the best place for the catcher to stand when waiting for the throw to cut off such a runner.
The general practice is to stand a couple of feet from the plate toward third base and in front
of the line. But this necessitates the catcher's turning half-way round after catching the
ball before he can touch the runner, and many an artful dodger scores his run by making a slide
in which he takes, at least, the full three feet allowed him out of the line. Many a run is
scored when the catcher seemed to have had the ball in waiting.

I believe the best place to stand is a couple of feet toward third and just back of the line.
The pitcher saves the time of turning around and has the additional advantage of having the
play in front of him, where he can better see every movement of the runner. When the game is
depending upon that one put-out the best place of all to stand is a few feet toward third and
directly on the line. From there the catcher can reach the runner whether he runs in front
of or behind him, and if he slides he will come against the catcher and may therefore not be
able to reach the plate, or, at least, the catcher may delay him long enough to make the put-out.
It is an extremely dangerous play for the catcher, however, and one that he will feel justified
in attempting only when the game depends upon the put-out. Brown saved the New Yorks a game
in New Orleans last winter by this play, though Powell, the base-runner, came against him with
such force as to throw him head-over-heels ten feet away. The object in standing a few feet
toward third is to avoid close plays, for then if the put-out is made at all there can be no
possible chance for the umpire to decide otherwise.

SIGNALING.

Under the heading of "The Pitcher" I have spoken of the necessity of a private code of signals
between pitcher and catcher, and I also said it was the general practice now for the catcher
to signify the kind of ball to be pitched, though it is my own opinion that the pitcher should
do this, unless there are special reasons why it should be otherwise. In giving this sign the
catcher, standing with his hands resting on his knees, makes some movement with the right hand,
or a finger of that hand, or with the right foot, to indicate an "out" ball, and some similar
movement with his left hand or foot for an "in" ball. Of course, this may generally be plainly
seen by every one on the field except the batter, whose back is turned, and this fact has been
taken advantage of by some teams. The coacher, standing at first or third, makes some remark
with no apparent reference to the batter, but really previously agreed upon, to notify him
what kind of ball is going to be pitched. This known, the batter has nothing to do but pick
out his ball and lay on to it with all his weight. Some of the New York players had great sport
the past winter in this way at the expense of the California pitchers. It is therefore advisable
that some sign be used that is not easily detected.

There are other signals which a catcher must give to basemen to apprise them of his intention
to throw. When there are runners on any of the bases, he should not give the sign to the pitcher
to pitch until he has glanced quietly around and seen whether any of the runners are leading
too far off the bases, and if so, by a prearranged signal notify the baseman that he will throw.
This signal should be known also to the pitcher and by every other fielder who may be interested
in the play. The pitcher will now send the catcher the ball wide of the plate and at a height
where the catcher can handle it easily. The moment he moves to pitch the baseman starts for
his base and the proper fielders get in line to back up the throw, if by accident it should
be wild. It is very necessary that the pitcher keep the ball out of the batter's reach, otherwise
it may be hit to a part of the field left unguarded by the fielders who have gone to back up
the throw; and the fielders must understand the signal or they will not be able to get in line
to back up. The complete success of all these plays lies, therefore, in every one knowing and
doing his part, and in all working together. A mistake by one, as if the pitcher allows the
ball to be hit and it goes safely to a field that would have otherwise been guarded, demoralizes
the entire team, and several such mistakes destroy the confidence of the men in team work.
In some cases the basemen themselves signal to the catcher for a throw, but in order that every
one interested may see the signal and be prepared for the play, it is manifestly better that
the catcher alone should give it.

A tricky runner on second will sometimes lead well off for the express purpose of having the
catcher throw down, whereupon, instead of returning to second he goes on to third. Whenever
a catcher has reason to suspect a runner of this intention he should make a feint to throw
to second, and if the runner starts for third the catcher then has him between the bases. The
feint must be well made and no time lost afterward in getting the ball either to second or
third, according to circumstances. The importance of a play such as this rests not only in
the single put-out made, but in the respect for the catcher with which it inspires subsequent
runners. They will be exceedingly careful what liberties they attempt to take. A very quick-witted
runner, seeing himself caught in this way between the bases, will, of course, try by every
means to extricate himself. He may, in turn, make a feint as if to return to second, and when
the catcher throws there he will still go on to third; or, he may feint to go to third and
manage to return to second. To catch such a man it is necessary to make a second feint to throw
to the base nearest him, and this will almost invariably force him to go in the opposite direction.
Besides, with each feint the catcher has stepped quickly forward and by the time he has finished
the second feint he is almost down to the pitcher's position. The runner is then completely
at the catcher's mercy and only an error of some kind will allow him to escape. There are not
more than a half dozen catchers in the profession who know how to make this play properly,
but there are some, as I have learned by sad experience.

When there are runners on first and third with second unoccupied, and the runner on first tries
to steal second, there are several possible plays. The catcher may throw to second to catch
the runner going down; or he may feint to throw there and throw to third to catch that runner
leading off; or he may actually throw toward second, but short of the base, so that the baseman
will have a less distance to return the ball home, in case the runner on third starts in. Which
one of these plays is to be made the catcher must decide beforehand and notify the basemen
by signal, and he will be governed in his decision by the circumstances of the case. If the
situation of the game is such that it will make little difference whether the runner on third
scores or not, the catcher will, of course, throw to second to make that put-out. But if one
run is vital there are other things to be considered. If the runner at third is very slow or
one not likely to attempt to run home, he may still throw to second to catch the man from first.
But if the runner at third is one who will attempt to score, the catcher must either throw
short to second or else feint and throw to third. Whatever he is going to do must be understood
thoroughly by all the fielders interested, and to this end he will give the proper signal.
As the second baseman and shortstop may also take an important part in this play, it will be
spoken of later.

In conclusion let me say, that in order to accomplish anything by these private signals the
catcher must have them in such thorough working order that no mistake can possibly occur. This
may come only after long and patient practice; some fielders find it almost impossible to work
with signs, but they must be kept at it every day until the code becomes perfectly familiar
to them.

CHAPTER V. THE FIRST BASEMAN.

From the fact that the first baseman has more "chances" to his credit than any other player,
it might seem to the casual observer that his is the most difficult position to play; but as
a matter of fact most of his chances are of a very simple nature, involving merely the catching
of a thrown ball, and an examination of the official averages will show him leading in the
percentages year after year. The possibilities of the position, however, have been developing.
For many years, and, indeed, until he retired from the diamond, "Old Reliable" Joe Start was
the king of first basemen; but, unquestionably, the play of such basemen as Connor, Commisky,
and Morrill is a steady improvement, along with the rest of the game. Especially has there
been an advance in the direction of fielding ground hits, and it is now not an unusual sight
to see a first baseman getting a hit in short right field, and assisting in the put-out at
first or second base.

The position demands a tall man. Such a one, by his longer reach, will not only save many wide
throws, but, because he is a good mark to throw at, will inspire confidence in the throwers.
He must be able to catch a thrown ball, whether high, low, or on either side. As to the surest
way of catching, opinions differ; but as to the best way, everything considered, I hold the
same conditions to be true here as in the case of the catcher; that is, for a high thrown ball
the fingers should point not toward the ball, but upward, and for a low thrown ball, just the
reverse. If the throw is off to either side, the baseman must shift his position so as to be
able to reach it, and if it is so far wide that he must leave the base, he should not hesitate
to do so; he should not imagine that he is tied to the bag. Start was the first man I ever
saw who knew how to leave the base for a wide throw. He never took the chance of a long reach
for the ball, unless, of course, the game depended on that one put-out and there was no time
to leave the base and return. He believed, and with reason, that it was better to first make
sure of the ball and then touch the base, than, by trying to do both at once, see the ball
sailing over into the side seats.

It is a difficult play when the throw is to the baseman's left, in toward the runner, because
of the danger of a collision with the latter. To the average spectator who may never have had
much experience on the field, these collisions between players may seem trifling affairs, but
they are not so regarded by the players themselves. In the history of the sport many men have
been seriously injured in this way, and a few killed outright. For two weeks once I was obliged
to sleep nights in a sitting posture as the result of a shock of this kind, and it was months
before I recovered entirely from its effects. To avoid a collision when the ball is thrown
in this way many good basemen stand back of the line with the right foot touching the base,
and allow the runner to pass in front of them. There was one first baseman who used simply
to reach in his left hand and pick the ball from in front of the runner with as much ease and
safety as though it were thrown directly to him. I mean McKinnon, poor Al McKinnon! What a
flood of affectionate recollections his name brings back. Kind-hearted, full of fun, manly,
honest, and straightforward to the last degree, he was one whose memory will always be green
in the hearts of those who knew him well.

In picking up low thrown balls which strike the ground in front of the baseman, some become
much more expert than others. One of the best, I think, is Phillips, who played last season
with Brooklyn, and is now with the Kansas City Club. When the bound is what is called a "short
bound," that is, where it strikes but a few inches in front of the hands, the play is really
not a difficult one if the ground is at all even; but where it strikes from one to three feet
beyond the hands, it requires considerable skill to get it, especially if the ground cannot
be depended upon for a regular bound. In this latter case the bound is too long for a "pick-up"
and too short for a long bound catch; so that the only thing to do is to calculate as nearly
as possible where the ball should bound and then try to get the hands in front of it. It will
be found easier to reach the hands as far forward as possible and then "give" with the ball,
that is, draw the hands back toward the body in the direction the ball should take on its rebound.
A player should never turn his face away, even at the risk of being hit, for by watching the
ball all the time, he may be able to change the position of the hands enough to meet some slight
miscalculation as to the direction of the bound.

In fielding ground-hits, the same rule applies to the first baseman as to every other fielder;
that he should get every hit he possibly can, with the single qualification that he shall avoid
interference with other fielders. But as between a possible interference and a failure to go
after a ball that should have been stopped, the interference is much to be preferred. There
are some basemen who seem to think there is a line beyond which it is forbidden them to go;
they act as though they were tied to the base-post by a twenty-foot lariat. Having fielded
a ground-hit, the baseman will usually himself run to the base; but sometimes the hit is so
slow or so far toward second or he fumbles it so long that there is no time left for him to
do this. In such case he will toss the ball to the pitcher, who has covered the base. In making
this play a baseman should not wait until the pitcher reaches the base before throwing, as
it loses too much time, and he should not throw the ball at all, because it makes a difficult
catch; but he should pitch the ball easily in front of the pitcher so that he and the ball
will both meet at the base. A little practice will make this play plain and simple, and the
advantage of doing it in this way will easily be seen.

There are times when, with runners on the bases, the play will not be to first, but to second,
third, or home. With a runner on first, many batters try to hit into right field, because with
the second baseman forced to cover second for a throw from the catcher, the space between first
and second is left almost unguarded. But if the first baseman will be on the alert for such
a hit, and throw the runner out at second, he not only balks the play but frightens following
batters from attempting the same hit. With a runner on third and not more than one man out,
all the in-fielders will play closer to the bat, so as to throw the runner out at home on an
in-field hit; in such case if the batter should strike out, and the third strike be dropped,
the first baseman should not go to his base to receive the throw from the catcher, but meet
it on the line as near as possible to the plate. He is then able to touch the runner on his
way to first and to throw home if the man on third attempts to score on the throw to first.
It may be possible to make a double play by first touching the runner to first and then throwing
home; but if the runner to first holds back and there is danger of the man from third scoring,
it is obviously best to throw home and cut him off, ignoring entirely the runner to first.

Another point in which many basemen are remiss is in backing up. On all throws from left or
left-centre field to second base he should get in line with the throw, and on all throws from
the same fields to the plate he should also assist in backing up, unless there is some special
necessity for guarding his own base.

There is a prevalent belief that it matters little whether a first baseman can throw well or
not, but a moment's consideration will show the fallacy of this. There are some plays in which
he needs to be a hard and accurate thrower; with a runner on second and a ball hit to the in-
field the runner will sometimes wait until it is thrown to first, and then start for third.
In such case only the best kind of a return by the first baseman will head him off. So also
in long hits to extreme right field he may have to assist the fielder by a throw to third or home.

It will thus be seen that there are points of play at first base which, in the hands of an
ambitious fielder, may be developed into very considerable importance.

CHAPTER VI. THE SECOND BASEMAN.

Second base is the prettiest position to play of the entire in-field. In the number of chances
offered it is next to first base, and in the character of the work to be done and the opportunities
for brilliant play and the exercise of judgment, it is unsurpassed. It is true the second baseman
has more territory to look after than any other in- fielder, but on account of the long distance
he plays from the batter he has more time in which to cover it. The last moment allowed a fielder
to get in the way of a ball is worth the first two, because one will be consumed in getting
under headway. Then, too, the distance of his throw to first is generally short, and this allows
him to fumble a hit and still get the ball there in time. So that while much of his work is
of a difficult kind, he is more than compensated by certain other advantages, and, so far as
the percentage of chances accepted is concerned, he generally leads every one except the first
baseman.

The position should have a man of at least average physical proportions. There are in every
game a number of throws to second from all points of the field, and with a small man there
many of them would be "wild," on account of his lack of height and reach; moreover, a larger
man offers a better mark to throw at, and the liability to throw wildly is decreased because
of the increased confidence on the part of the throwers. Then, too, a small man is not able
to stand the continual collisions with base-runners, and as a number of his plays are attempts
to retire runners from first, he grows timid after awhile and allows many clever sliders to
get away from him.

On the other hand, the position requires a very active player, and for this reason, too large
a man would not be desirable on account of the large field he has to cover, he must possess
the ability to run fast and to start and stop quickly; he must be able to stoop and recover
himself while still running, and be able to throw a ball from any position. Not all his throws
are of the short order; sometimes he is expected to cut off a runner at third or return the
ball to the catcher for the same purpose, and in these cases speed and accuracy are of the
utmost importance.

Because of the number and variety of plays that fall to his lot, he must be a man of some intelligence.
With runners on the bases, the situations of a game change like the pictures in a kaleidoscope,
so that there is not always time to consider what is the best play to make; there are times
when he must decide with a wit so quick that it amounts almost to instinct, for the loss of
a fraction of a second may be the loss of the opportunity, and that one play mean ultimate defeat.

The exact spot to play, in order best to cover the position, will be determined by the direction
in which the batter is likely to hit, by his fleetness, and by the situation of the game. If
there are no runners on the bases the consideration of the batter will alone determine; if
he is a right-field hitter the second baseman will play more toward the first baseman, the
entire in-field moving around correspondingly; and if he is a left-field hitter he will play
toward second and back of the base, in either case playing back of the base line from fifteen
to fifty feet, depending upon whether the batter is a very fleet or slow runner. If there are
runners on the bases this fact will have to be taken into consideration; for example, with
a runner on second the baseman must play near enough to "hold" the runner on the base and not
give him so much ground that he can steal third; or if there is a runner on first and the baseman
is himself going to cover the base in case of a steal, he must be near enough to get there
in time to receive the catcher's throw. On the other hand, he must not play too close or he
leaves too much open space between himself and the first baseman; and, though playing far enough
away, he should not start for the base until he sees that the batter has not hit. It is not
necessary that he be at the base waiting for the throw, but only that he make sure to meet
it there. Pfeffer, of Chicago, plays this point better than any one, I think, and in all respects
in handling a thrown ball, he is unexcelled.

To catch a runner attempting to steal from first, most second basemen prefer to receive the
ball a few feet to the side of the base nearest first and in front of the line. The first is
all right because it allows the runner to be touched before getting too close to the base and
avoids close decisions; but I question the policy of the baseman being in front of the line
in every instance. From this position it is extremely difficult to touch a runner who throws
himself entirely out and back of the line, reaching for the base only with his hand. With a
runner who is known to slide that way, I believe the baseman should stand back of the line;
it demoralizes the runner when he looks up and finds the baseman in the path where he had expected
to slide, and it forces him to go into the base in a way different from what he had intended
and from that to which he is accustomed. The veteran Bob Ferguson always stood back of the
line, and more than once made shipwreck of my hopes when I might have evaded him if he had
given me a chance to slide. The time taken in turning around and reaching for the runner is
often just enough to lose the play, whereas, standing back of the line, this time is saved,
and, in addition, the baseman has the play and the runner's movements in front of him.

With a runner on third and not more than one out, the batter may try to hit a ground ball to
the in-field, sacrificing himself but allowing the runner from third to score. To prevent this
the in-fielders will generally play nearer the bat, so as to return the ball to the catcher
in time to cut off the runner, and how close they must play will depend, of course, upon the
fleetness of the runner. Even then the ball may be hit so slowly or fielded in such a way as
to make the play at the plate impossible, in which case the fielder will try to retire the
batter at first.

With runners on first and third the one on first will often try to steal second, and if the
catcher throws down to catch him, the one on third goes for home. To meet this play on the
part of the runners is by no means easy, but it can nevertheless be done. If the one run will
not affect the general result of the game, it may be well to pay no attention to the runner
from third and try only to put out the one from first, thus clearing the bases. But if it is
necessary to prevent the run scoring, the second baseman must be prepared to return the ball
to the catcher in case the runner starts for home. In order to gain as much time as possible,
he should take as position to receive the catcher's throw ten feet inside of the base-line;
keeping one eye on the ball and the other on the runner at third, if he sees the runner start
for home, he must meet the throw as quickly as possible and return the ball to the catcher;
if the runner does not start, the baseman should step quickly backward so that by the time
the ball reaches him he will be near enough to the base-line to touch the runner from first.
The play is a difficult one and requires more than the ordinary amount of skill and practice.
There is another and, I think, better way of making this play, which will be spoken of under
"The Short-stop," because that player is principally interested.

Before the enactment of the rule confining the coachers to a limited space the coacher at third
base sometimes played a sharp trick on the second baseman. When the catcher threw the ball,
the coacher started down the base-line toward home, and the sec-mid baseman, seeing only imperfectly,
mistook him for the runner and returned the ball quickly to the catcher. The result was that
the runner from first trotted safely to second, the runner at third remained there, and everybody
laughed except the second baseman.

In fielding ground-hits the second baseman, because of his being so far removed from the bat,
has a better chance to "judge" a hit. He is able either to advance or recede a step or more
to meet the ball on a high bound; and on account of the short throw to first he may take more
liberties with such a hit; it is not absolutely necessary that he field every ball cleanly,
because he may fumble a hit and still make his play. In general, however, he should meet a
hit as quickly as possible, so that if fumbled he may have the greatest amount of time to recover
and throw. He should also, if possible, get squarely in front of every hit, thus making his
feet, legs, and body assist in stopping the ball in case it eludes his hands. When not possible
to get directly in front of the ball he must still try to stop it with both hands or with one,
for he may then recover it in time to make the play.

Having secured the ball, he should wait only long enough to steady himself before throwing.
He should not hold the ball a moment longer than is necessary. In some cases he has not time
to straighten up before throwing, but must snap the ball underhand; and where he gets the hit
near enough to the base he should not throw at all, but pitch the ball to the baseman; this
makes the play much safer. When there is a runner on first and the ball is hit to the second
baseman, he tries for a double play, and there are four ways in which it may be made. First,
if he gets the ball before the runner from first reaches him he may touch the runner and then
throw to first base before the batter gets there. Second, if the runner from first stops so
that he can't be touched, the baseman drives him back toward first as far as possible and throws
there in time to put out the batter; the other runner, being then caught between the bases,
is run down, completing the double. Third, if the hit is near enough to the base he may touch
second and then throw to first to head off the batter. And, fourth, he may first pass the ball
to the short-stop, who has covered second, and the latter throws to first in time to put out
the batter. In nine cases out of ten the last is the safest play; it makes sure of the runner
to second and is more likely to catch the batter, because the short-stop is in better shape
to throw to first than the baseman would be if he attempted to make the play unassisted.

The second baseman should take not only all fly hits in his own territory, but also all falling
back of the first baseman, and back of the short-stop toward centre field. In all these cases
he gets a better view of the ball than either of the other players named, because, instead
of running backward, as they would be obliged to do, he runs to the side, and the catch is
thus easier for him. If the hit is one which can be reached by an out-fielder, and the latter
calls that he will take it, the second baseman will, of course, give way, because the fielder
has the ball in front of him, in a better position even than the baseman.

With a runner on second he must be on the lookout for the catcher's signal to the pitcher to
throw to second, and on seeing this he must start at once for the base to receive the pitcher's
throw. He must also watch for the catcher's sign to the second baseman notifying him of an
intention to throw, and while the ball is passing from the pitcher to the catcher, get to the
base to receive the throw.

He should "back up" throws to the first baseman whenever possible, leaving his own base to
be covered by the short-stop. He should assist the right and centre fielders in the return
of long hits, running well out into the field to receive the out-fielder's throw. When plays
arise other than those here mentioned his judgment must tell him what to do, and, without neglecting
his own position, he must not hesitate to take any part to advance his team's interests.

CHAPTER VII. THE THIRD BASEMAN.

In the early days of the game, when the pitching was slower and "fair- foul" hits were allowed,
the third base position was the busiest and most difficult to play of the in-field. But the
changes in the rules, which did away with "fair-foul" hitting, and those which introduced the
present pace in pitching, have taken away much of the third baseman's importance. Most of the
in-field hitting now is toward short-stop and second base, and the best of third basemen are
not able to average over three or four chances to a game. But, though the amount of his work
has been diminished, it still retains its difficult nature. The length of the throw to first,
and the short time given him in which to make it, occasion many wild throws, and if he fumbles
the ball at all, the opportunity is lost. Fleet runners who hit left-handed, and others who
merely "bunt" the ball, can be caught only by the quickest and cleanest work; so that, everything
considered, it is not surprising to find the third baseman generally at the foot of the in-field
averages.

A third baseman, like a second baseman, should be a man of at least average size, and Denny,
who is by long odds the best in the profession, is a large man. He will have a longer reach
for both thrown and batted balls, he will be a better mark to throw at, and, by reason of his
superior weight, he will have more confidence in the face of reckless base-running. But not
every player of proper size who can stop a ball and throw it accurately to first is capable
of becoming a good third baseman. The New York team of 1887 demonstrated the odd fact that
a man who seemed entirely unable to play second base, could yet play third in good style, while
another who was but an average third baseman could take care of second equal to any one. The
explanation probably lies in the fact that the positions require men of different temperaments.
At second base a player of nervous tendency grows anxious waiting for the ball to come, and
by the time it reaches him is unable to get it in his hands, while at third base, where the
action is much quicker, such a man is perfectly at home, because he is not given time to become
nervous. The same curious fact is seen when an infielder is changed to an out- field position;
he finds it impossible, at first, to stop ground-hits, because they seem never to be going
to reach him, and he is completely "rattled" by the long wait. For the same reason the most
difficult hits which an infielder has to handle are the slow, easy, bounding balls that under
ordinary circumstances a child could stop.

The proper place for a third baseman to play must be governed by the nature of the case. For
an ordinary right-hand batter, likely to hit in any direction, and no one on the bases, he
should play from fifteen to twenty feet toward second and several feet back of the base line.
For a very fast runner he should move nearer the batter, and, if there is danger of a "bunt,"
he may even have to play well inside the diamond, though, as before said, all such hits should
be attended to by the pitcher. For a batter who hits along the foul-line, he will play nearer
his base, and for one who invariably hits toward right-field, he will move around toward second
base, going, in some instances, even as far as the short-stop's regular position. For left-hand
hitters he will generally have to play nearer the bat, because these players always get to
first quicker than right-hand batters. They are five or six feet nearer first base, and by
the swing of the bat they get a much quicker start. If there is a runner on third and not more
than one out, he will have to play near the base before the ball is pitched, the object being
to give the runner as little start as possible, so that he cannot score on a sacrifice hit.
When the ball is pitched the baseman runs off to his proper position, unless, of course, he
has received a signal from the catcher to expect a throw.

The third baseman should go after not only all hits coming within his position proper, but
also all slow hits toward short-stop, for the latter is sometimes unable to field such hits
in time to make the putout, on account of the longer distance he plays from the home base.
The baseman should, however, avoid useless interference with the short- stop, and he should
not put down one hand or otherwise balk that player on a hit plainly within the latter's reach.

Having stopped a batted ball, he should throw it as quickly as possible after having regained
his balance, so that if the aim be slightly inaccurate the first baseman may have time to leave
the base and return. If there is a runner on first, the baseman's throw will be to second;
this will, at least, cut off the runner from first, and possibly a double play may be made,
if the ball can be sent to first ahead of the striker. If there are runners on both first and
second at the time of the hit, he may either throw to second for the double play as before,
taking the chance of catching two men, or he may make sure of one man by simply touching the
third base, forcing out the runner from second. Finally, there may be a runner on third and
not more than one out, in which case, if the runner on third starts home, he will usually try
to cut him off by a throw to the catcher, though possibly he may still deem it best to throw
to some other base. In any case, what is the best play he must determine for himself, and he
will expedite his decision by having a thorough understanding of the situation before the play
arises.

The third baseman should receive a signal from the catcher when the latter intends throwing
to him to catch a runner "napping." The runner always takes considerable ground in order to
score on a slow hit to the in-field, or on a short passed ball. By a signal, received before
the pitcher delivers the ball, the baseman knows that the catcher will throw, and during the
delivery he gets to the base to receive it. And here, again, the best base runners are oftenest
caught because they take the most ground. If the batter hits at the ball the runner takes an
extra start, and a quick throw to the base will very often catch him before he can get back.
It should, therefore, be understood that, in every case when the batter strikes at the ball
and misses it, the catcher will throw to third, whether or not he has previously given the
signal. In touching a runner the baseman must not run away from him; he must expect to get
spiked occasionally, for, if he is thinking more of his own safety than of making the put-out,
he will lose many plays by allowing runners to slide under or around him.

CHAPTER VIII. THE SHORT-STOP.

Originally, it is said, the short-stop's chief function was as tender to the pitcher, though
this soon became an unimportant feature of his work. The possibilities of the position as a
factor in field play were early developed; such fielders as George Wright and Dick Pearce soon
showed that it could be made one of the most important of the in-field. But the same legislation
which almost crowded the third baseman out of the game, affected materially the short-stop's
work, and it is only within the past couple of years that he has regained his former prominent
place.

During 1887 there was more hitting to short than to any other in-field position; though the
second baseman averaged more "total chances," on account of a greater number of "put-outs,"
the "assists" were in favor of the short-stop.

The conception of the position has also undergone some changes, and when, therefore, I say
that the position is now played more effectively than ever, it is not to assert that the players
of the present are better than those of the past, but simply that these changes have been in
the line of improvement, that the short-stop now makes plays never thought of in former years--in
short, that the development of the position has kept pace with the rest of the game.

In the early days short-stop was played on the base line from second to third, or even several
feet inside the diamond; now it is played from ten to twenty and sometimes thirty feet back
of the line. The result is a vast increase in the amount of territory covered; hits are now
fielded on either side which once were easily safe; short flies to the outfield, which formerly
fell between the in and outfielders, are now, many of them, caught; the shortstop backs up
the second and third bases, helps "hold" a runner on second, and, on a throw from pitcher or
catcher, the second base is covered by him almost as often as by the baseman himself. Playing
so much further from the batter, he will make inure errors; he can seldom fumble a hit and
still make the play; his throw to first is longer, and must therefore be swifter and more accurate;
but for these disadvantages to himself he is repaid many fold by an increased usefulness to
his team. All these features together make the position very different from what it was some
years ago, and in point of effectiveness it has undoubtedly been improved.

