It will be clear that in philosophy, in jurisprudence, in political economy and sociology,
and in literary criticism and such like, we are dealing not with certainties but with propositions
which are, for literary convenience, invested with the garb of certainties.

What kind of logical sanction is it, then, which can attach to reasonings such as are to be
set out here?

They have in point of fact the sanction which attaches to reasonings based upon premisses arrived
at by the method of diacritical judgment.

It is, I hasten to notify the reader, not the method, but only the name here assigned to it,
which is unfamiliar. As soon as I exhibit it in the working, the reader will identify it as
that by which every generalisation and definition ought to be put to the proof.

I may for this purpose take the general statements or definitions which serve as premisses
for my reasonings in the text.

I bring forward those generalisations and definitions because they commend themselves to my
diacritical judgment. In other words, I set them forth as results which have been reached after
reiterated efforts to call up to mind the totality of my experience, and to de-tect the factor
which is common to all the individual experiences.

When for instance I propose a definition, I have endeavoured to call to mind all the different
uses of the word with which I am familiar--eliminating, of course, all the obviously incorrect
uses.

And when I venture to attempt a generalisation about woman, I endeavour to recall to mind without
distinction all the different women I have encountered, and to extricate from my impressions
what was common to all,--omitting from consideration (except only when I am dealing specifically
with these) all plainly abnormal women.

Having by this procedure arrived at a generalisation--which may of course be correct or incorrect--I
submit it to my reader, and ask from him that he should, after going through the same mental
operations as myself, review my judgment, and pronounce his verdict.

If it should then so happen that the reader comes, in the case of any generalisation, to the
same verdict as that which I have reached, that particular generalisation will, I submit, now
go forward not as a datum of my individual experience, but as the intellectual resultant of
two separate and distinct experiences. It will thereby be immensely fortified.

If, on the other hand, the reader comes to the conclusion that a particular generalisation
is out of conformity with his experience, that generalisation will go forward shorn of some,
or perchance all, its authority.

But in any case each individual generalisation must be referred further.

And at the end it will, according as it finds, or fails to find, acceptance among the thoughtful,
be endorsed as a truth, and be gathered into the garner of human knowledge; or be recognised
as an error, and find its place with the tares, which the householder, in time of the harvest,
will tell the reapers to bind in bundles to burn them.

A. E. W. 1913.

The task which I undertake here is to show that the Woman's Suffrage Movement has no real intellectual
or moral sanction, and that there are very weighty reasons why the suffrage should not be conceded
to woman.

I would propose to begin by analysing the mental attitude of those who range themselves on
the side of woman suffrage, and then to pass on to deal with the principal arguments upon which
the woman suffragist relies.

The preponderating majority of the women who claim the suffrage do not do so from motives of
public interest or philanthropy.

