It is quite plain now that those who first organised the parliamentary institutions which now
are the ruling institutions of the greater part of mankind fell a prey to certain now very
obvious errors. They did not realise that there are hundreds of different ways in which voting
may be done, and that every way will give a different result. They thought, and it is still
thought by a great number of mentally indolent people, that if a country is divided up into
approximately equivalent areas, each returning one or two representatives, if every citizen
is given one vote, and if there is no legal limit to the presentation of candidates, that presently
a cluster of the wisest, most trusted and best citizens will come together in the legislative
assembly.

In reality the business is far more complicated than this. In reality a country will elect
all sorts of different people according to the electoral method employed. It is a fact that
anyone who chooses to experiment with a willing school or club may verify. Suppose, for example,
that you take your country, give every voter one single vote, put up six and twenty candidates
for a dozen vacancies, and give them no adequate time for organisation. The voters, you will
find, will return certain favourites, A and B and C and D let us call them, by enormous majorities,
and behind these at a considerable distance will come E, F, G, H, I, J, K, and L. Now give
your candidates time to develop organisation. A lot of people who swelled A's huge vote will
dislike J and K and L so much, and prefer M and N so much, that if they are assured that by
proper organisation A's return can be made certain without their voting for him, they will
vote for M and N. But they will do so only on that understanding. Similarly certain B-ites
will want O and P if they can be got without sacrificing B. So that adequate party organisation
in the community may return not the dozen a naive vote would give, but A, B, C, D, E, F, G,
H, M, N, O, P. Now suppose that, instead of this arrangement, your community is divided into
twelve constituencies and no candidate may contest more than one of them. And suppose each
constituency has strong local preferences. A, B and C are widely popular; in every constituency
they have supporters but in no constituency does any one of the three command a majority. They
are great men, not local men. Q, who is an unknown man in most of the country, has, on the
contrary, a strong sect of followers in the constituency for which A stands, and beats him
by one vote; another local celebrity, E, disposes of B in the same way; C is attacked not only
by S but T, whose peculiar views upon vaccination, let us say, appeal to just enough of C's
supporters to let in S. Similar accidents happen in the other constituencies, and the country
that would have unreservedly returned A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K and L on the first system,
return instead O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z. Numerous voters who would have voted for
A if they had a chance vote instead for R, S, T, etc., numbers who would have voted for B,
vote for Q, V, W, X, etc. But now suppose that A and B are opposed to one another, and that
there is a strong A party and a strong B party highly organised in the country. B is really
the second favourite over the country as a whole, but A is the first favourite. D, F, H, J,
L, N, P, R, U, W, Y constitute the A candidates and in his name they conquer. B, C, E, G, I,
K, M, O, Q, S, V are all thrown out in spite of the wide popularity of B and C. B and C, we
have supposed, are the second and third favourites, and yet they go out in favour of Y, of
whom nobody has heard before, some mere hangers-on of A's. Such a situation actually occurs
in both Ulster and Home-Rule Ireland.

But now let us suppose another arrangement, and that is that the whole country is one constituency,
and every voter has, if he chooses to exercise them, twelve votes, which, however, he must
give, if he gives them all, to twelve separate people. Then quite certainly A, B, C, D will
come in, but the tail will be different. M, N, O, P may come up next to them, and even Z, that
eminent non-party man, may get in. But now organisation may produce new effects. The ordinary
man, when he has twelve votes to give, likes to give them all, so that there will be a good
deal of wild voting at the tails of the voting papers. Now if a small resolute band decide
to plump for T or to vote only for A and T or B and T, T will probably jump up out of the rejected.
This is the system which gives the specialist, the anti-vaccinator or what not, the maximum
advantage. V, W, X and Y, being rather hopeless anyhow, will probably detach themselves from
party and make some special appeal, say to the teetotal vote or the Mormon vote or the single
tax vote, and so squeeze past O, P, Q, R, who have taken a more generalised line.

I trust the reader will bear with me through these alphabetical fluctuations. Many people,
I know from colloquial experiences, do at about this stage fly into a passion. But if you will
exercise self-control, then I think you will see my point that, according to the method of
voting, almost any sort of result may be got out of an election except the production of a
genuinely representative assembly.

And that is the a priori case for supposing, what our experience of contemporary life abundantly
verifies, that the so-called representative assemblies of the world are not really representative
at all. I will go farther and say that were it not for the entire inefficiency of our method
of voting, not one-tenth of the present American and French Senators, the French Deputies,
the American Congressmen, and the English Members of Parliament would hold their positions
to-day. They would never have been heard of. They are not really the elected representatives
of the people; they are the products of a ridiculous method of election; they are the illegitimate
children of the party system and the ballot-box, who have ousted the legitimate heirs from
their sovereignty. They are no more the expression of the general will than the Tsar or some
President by pronunciamento. They are an accidental oligarchy of adventurers. Representative
government has never yet existed in the world; there was an attempt to bring it into existence
in the eighteenth century, and it succumbed to an infantile disorder at the very moment of
its birth. What we have in the place of the leaders and representatives are politicians and
"elected persons."

The world is passing rapidly from localised to generalised interests, but the method of election
into which our fathers fell is the method of electing one or two representatives from strictly
localised constituencies. Its immediate corruption was inevitable. If discussing and calculating
the future had been, as it ought to be, a common, systematic occupation, the muddles of to-day
might have been foretold a hundred years ago. From such a rough method of election the party
system followed as a matter of course. In theory, of course, there may be any number of candidates
for a constituency and a voter votes for the one he likes best; in practice there are only
two or three candidates, and the voter votes for the one most likely to beat the candidate
he likes least. It cannot be too strongly insisted that in contemporary elections we vote against;
we do not vote for. If A, B and C are candidates, and you hate C and all his works and prefer
A, but doubt if he will get as many votes as B, who is indifferent to you, the chances are
you will vote for B. If C and B have the support of organised parties, you are still less likely
to risk "wasting" your vote upon A. If your real confidence is in G, who is not a candidate
for your constituency, and if B pledges himself to support G, while A retains the right of
separate action, you may vote for B even if you distrust him personally. Additional candidates
would turn any election of this type into a wild scramble. The system lies, in fact, wholly
open to the control of political organisations, calls out, indeed, for the control of political
organisations, and has in every country produced what is so evidently demanded. The political
organisations to-day rule us unchallenged. Save as they speak for us, the people are dumb.

Elections of the prevalent pattern, which were intended and are still supposed by simple-minded
people to give every voter participation in government, do as a matter of fact effect nothing
of the sort. They give him an exasperating fragment of choice between the agents of two party
organisations, over neither of which he has any intelligible control. For twenty-five years
I have been a voter, and in all that time I have only twice had an opportunity of voting for
a man of distinction in whom I had the slightest confidence. Commonly my choice of a "representative"
has been between a couple of barristers entirely unknown to me or the world at large. Rather
more than half the men presented for my selection have not been English at all, but of alien
descent. This, then, is the sum of the political liberty of the ordinary American or Englishman,
that is the political emancipation which Englishwomen have shown themselves so pathetically
eager to share. He may reject one of two undesirables, and the other becomes his "representative."
Now this is not popular government at all; it is government by the profession of politicians,
whose control becomes more and more irresponsible in just the measure that they are able to
avoid real factions within their own body. Whatever the two party organisations have a mind
to do together, whatever issue they chance to reserve from "party politics," is as much beyond
the control of the free and independent voter as if he were a slave subject in ancient Peru.

Our governments in the more civilised parts of the world to-day are only in theory and sentiment
democratic. In reality they are democracies so eviscerated by the disease of bad electoral
methods that they are mere cloaks for the parasitic oligarchies that have grown up within their
form and substance. The old spirit of freedom and the collective purpose which overthrew and
subdued priestcrafts and kingcrafts, has done so, it seems, only to make way for these obscure
political conspiracies. Instead of liberal institutions, mankind has invented a new sort of
usurpation. And it is not unnatural that many of us should be in a phase of political despair.

These oligarchies of the party organisations have now been evolving for two centuries, and
their inherent evils and dangers become more and more manifest. The first of these is the exclusion
from government of the more active and intelligent sections of the community. It is not treated
as remarkable, it is treated as a matter of course, that neither in Congress nor in the House
of Commons is there any adequate representation of the real thought of the time, of its science,
invention and enterprise, of its art and feeling, of its religion and purpose. When one speaks
of Congressmen or Members of Parliament one thinks, to be plain about it, of intellectual riff-raff.
When one hears of a pre-eminent man in the English-speaking community, even though that pre-eminence
may be in political or social science, one is struck by a sense of incongruity if he happens
to be also in the Legislature. When Lord Haldane disengages the Gifford lectures or Lord Morley
writes a "Life of Gladstone" or ex-President Roosevelt is delivered of a magazine article,
there is the same sort of excessive admiration as when a Royal Princess does a water-colour
sketch or a dog walks on its hind legs.

Now this intellectual inferiority of the legislator is not only directly bad for the community
by producing dull and stupid legislation, but it has a discouraging and dwarfing effect upon
our intellectual life. Nothing so stimulates art, thought and science as realisation; nothing
so cripples it as unreality. But to set oneself to know thoroughly and to think clearly about
any human question is to unfit oneself for the forensic claptrap which is contemporary politics,
is to put oneself out of the effective current of the nation's life. The intelligence of any
community which does not make a collective use of that intelligence, starves and becomes hectic,
tends inevitably to preciousness and futility on the one hand, and to insurgency, mischief
and anarchism on the other.

From the point of view of social stability this estrangement of the national government and
the national intelligence is far less serious than the estrangement between the governing body
and the real feeling of the mass of the people. To many observers this latter estrangement
seems to be drifting very rapidly towards a social explosion in the British Isles. The organised
masses of labour find themselves baffled both by their parliamentary representatives and by
their trade union officials. They are losing faith in their votes and falling back in anger
upon insurrectionary ideals, upon the idea of a general strike, and upon the expedients of
sabotage. They are doing this without any constructive proposals at all, for it is ridiculous
to consider Syndicalism as a constructive proposal. They mean mischief because they are hopeless
and bitterly disappointed. It is the same thing in France, and before many years are over it
will be the same thing in America. That way lies chaos. In the next few years there may be
social revolt and bloodshed in most of the great cities of Western Europe. That is the trend
of current probability. Yet the politicians go on in an almost complete disregard of this gathering
storm. Their jerrymandered electoral methods are like wool in their ears, and the rejection
of Tweedledum for Tweedledee is taken as a "mandate" for Tweedledee's distinctive brand of
political unrealities....

Is this an incurable state of things? Is this method of managing our affairs the only possible
electoral method, and is there no remedy for its monstrous clumsiness and inefficiency but
to "show a sense of humour," or, in other words, to grin and bear it? Or is it conceivable
that there may be a better way to government than any we have yet tried, a method of government
that would draw every class into conscious and willing co-operation with the State, and enable
every activity of the community to play its proper part in the national life? That was the
dream of those who gave the world representative government in the past. Was it an impossible
dream?

Sec. 2

Is this disease of Parliaments an incurable disease, and have we, therefore, to get along as
well as we can with it, just as a tainted and incurable invalid diets and is careful and gets
along through life? Or is it possible that some entirely more representative and effective
collective control of our common affairs can be devised?

The answer to that must determine our attitude to a great number of fundamental questions.
If no better governing body is possible than the stupid, dilatory and forensic assemblies that
rule in France, Britain and America to-day, then the civilised human community has reached
its climax. That more comprehensive collective handling of the common interests to which science
and intelligent Socialism point, that collective handling which is already urgently needed
if the present uncontrolled waste of natural resources and the ultimate bankruptcy of mankind
is to be avoided, is quite beyond the capacity of such assemblies; already there is too much
in their clumsy and untrustworthy hands, and the only course open to us is an attempt at enlightened
Individualism, an attempt to limit and restrict State activities in every possible way, and
to make little private temporary islands of light and refinement amidst the general disorder
and decay. All collectivist schemes, all rational Socialism, if only Socialists would realise
it, all hope for humanity, indeed, are dependent ultimately upon the hypothetical possibility
of a better system of government than any at present in existence.

Let us see first, then, if we can lay down any conditions which such a better governing body
would satisfy. Afterwards it will be open to us to believe or disbelieve in its attainment.
Imagination is the essence of creation. If we can imagine a better government we are half-way
to making it.

Now, whatever other conditions such a body will satisfy, we may be sure that it will not be
made up of members elected by single-member constituencies. A single-member constituency must
necessarily contain a minority, and may even contain a majority of dissatisfied persons whose
representation is, as it were, blotted out by the successful candidate. Three single-member
constituencies which might all return members of the same colour, if they were lumped together
to return three members would probably return two of one colour and one of another. There would
still, however, be a suppressed minority averse to both these colours, or desiring different
shades of those colours from those afforded them in the constituency. Other things being equal,
it may be laid down that the larger the constituency and the more numerous its representatives,
the greater the chance of all varieties of thought and opinion being represented.

But that is only a preliminary statement; it still leaves untouched all the considerations
advanced in the former part of this discussion to show how easily the complications and difficulties
of voting lead to a falsification of the popular will and understanding. But here we enter
a region where a really scientific investigation has been made, and where established results
are available. A method of election was worked out by Hare in the middle of the last century
that really does seem to avoid or mitigate nearly every falsifying or debilitating possibility
in elections; it was enthusiastically supported by J.S. Mill; it is now advocated by a special
society--the Proportional Representation Society--to which belong men of the most diverse type
of distinction, united only by the common desire to see representative government a reality
and not a disastrous sham. It is a method which does render impossible nearly every way of
forcing candidates upon constituencies, and nearly every trick for rigging results that now
distorts and cripples the political life of the modern world. It exacts only one condition,
a difficult but not an impossible condition, and that is the honest scrutiny and counting of
the votes.

The peculiar invention of the system is what is called the single transferable vote--that is
to say, a vote which may be given in the first instance to one candidate, but which, in the
event of his already having a sufficient quota of votes to return him, may be transferred to
another. The voter marks clearly in the list of the candidates the order of his preference
by placing 1, 2, 3, and so forth against the names. In the subsequent counting the voting papers
are first classified according to the first votes. Let us suppose that popular person A is
found to have received first votes enormously in excess of what is needed to return him. The
second votes are then counted on his papers, and after the number of votes necessary to return
him has been deducted, the surplus votes are divided in due proportion among the second choice
names, and count for them. That is the essential idea of the whole thing. At a stroke all that
anxiety about wasting votes and splitting votes, which is the secret of all party political
manipulation vanishes. You may vote for A well knowing that if he is safe your vote will be
good for C. You can make sure of A, and at the same time vote for C. You are in no need of
a "ticket" to guide you, and you need have no fear that in supporting an independent candidate
you will destroy the prospects of some tolerably sympathetic party man without any compensating
advantage. The independent candidate does, in fact, become possible for the first time. The
Hobson's choice of the party machine is abolished.

Let me be a little more precise about the particulars of this method, the only sound method,
of voting in order to ensure an adequate representation of the community. Let us resort again
to the constituency I imagined in my last paper, a constituency in which candidates represented
by all the letters of the alphabet struggle for twelve places. And let us suppose that A, B,
C and D are the leading favourites. Suppose that there are twelve thousand voters in the constituency,
and that three thousand votes are cast for A--I am keeping the figures as simple as possible--then
A has two thousand more than is needed to return him. All the second votes on his papers are
counted, and it is found that 600, or a fifth of them, go to C; 500, or a sixth, go to E; 300,
or a tenth, to G; 300 to J; 200, or a fifteenth, each to K and L, and a hundred each, or a
thirtieth, to M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, W and Z. Then the surplus of 2,000 is divided in these
proportions--that is a fifth of 2,000 goes to C, a sixth to E, and the rest to G, J, etc.,
in proportion. C, who already has 900 votes, gets another 400, and is now returned and has,
moreover, 300 to spare; and the same division of the next votes upon C's paper occurs as has
already been made with A's. But previously to this there has been a distribution of B's surplus
votes, B having got 1,200 of first votes. And so on. After the distribution of the surplus
votes of the elect at the top of the list, there is a distribution of the second votes upon
the papers of those who have voted for the hopeless candidates at the bottom of the list. At
last a point is reached when twelve candidates have a quota.

In this way the "wasting" of a vote, or the rejection of a candidate for any reason except
that hardly anybody wants him, become practically impossible. This method of the single transferable
vote with very large constituencies and many members does, in fact, give an entirely valid
electoral result; each vote tells for all it is worth, and the freedom of the voter is only
limited by the number of candidates who put up or are put up for election. This method, and
this method alone, gives representative government; all others of the hundred and one possible
methods admit of trickery, confusion and falsification. Proportional Representation is not
a faddist proposal, not a perplexing ingenious complication of a simple business; it is the
carefully worked out right way to do something that hitherto we have been doing in the wrong
way. It is no more an eccentricity than is proper baking in the place of baking amidst dirt
and with unlimited adulteration, or the running of trains to their destinations instead of
running them without notice into casually selected sidings and branch lines. It is not the
substitution of something for something else of the same nature; it is the substitution of
right for wrong. It is the plain common sense of the greatest difficulty in contemporary affairs.

I know that a number of people do not, will not, admit this of Proportional Representation.
Perhaps it is because of that hideous mouthful of words for a thing that would be far more
properly named Sane Voting. This, which is the only correct way, these antagonists regard as
a peculiar way. It has unfamiliar features, and that condemns it in their eyes. It takes at
least ten minutes to understand, and that is too much for their plain, straightforward souls.
"Complicated"--that word of fear! They are like the man who approved of an electric tram, but
said that he thought it would go better without all that jiggery-pokery of wires up above.
They are like the Western judge in the murder trial who said that if only they got a man hanged
for this abominable crime, he wouldn't make a pedantic fuss about the question of which man.
They are like the plain, straightforward promoter who became impatient with maps and planned
a railway across Switzerland by drawing a straight line with a ruler across Jungfrau and Matterhorn
and glacier and gorge. Or else they are like Mr. J. Ramsay Macdonald, M.P., who knows too well
what would happen to him.

Now let us consider what would be the necessary consequences of the establishment of Proportional
Representation in such a community as Great Britain--that is to say, the redistribution of
the country into great constituencies such as London or Ulster or Wessex or South Wales, each
returning a score or more of members, and the establishment of voting by the single transferable
vote. The first, immediate, most desirable result would be the disappearance of the undistinguished
party candidate; he would vanish altogether. He would be no more seen. Proportional Representation
would not give him the ghost of a chance. The very young man of good family, the subsidised
barrister, the respectable nobody, the rich supporter of the party would be ousted by known
men. No candidate who had not already distinguished himself, and who did not stand for something
in the public eye, would have a chance of election. There alone we have a sufficient reason
for anticipating a very thorough change in the quality and character of the average legislator.

And next, no party organisation, no intimation from headquarters, no dirty tricks behind the
scenes, no conspiracy of spite and scandal would have much chance of keeping out any man of
real force and distinction who had impressed the public imagination. To be famous in science,
to have led thought, to have explored or administered or dissented courageously from the schemes
of official wire-pullers would no longer be a bar to a man's attainment of Parliament. It would
be a help. Not only the level of parliamentary intelligence, but the level of personal independence
would be raised far above its present position. And Parliament would become a gathering of
prominent men instead of a means to prominence.

The two-party system which holds all the English-speaking countries to-day in its grip would
certainly be broken up by Proportional Representation. Sane Voting in the end would kill the
Liberal and Tory and Democratic and Republican party-machines. That secret rottenness of our
public life, that hidden conclave which sells honours, fouls finance, muddles public affairs,
fools the passionate desires of the people, and ruins honest men by obscure campaigns would
become impossible. The advantage of party support would be a doubtful advantage, and in Parliament
itself the party men would find themselves outclassed and possibly even outnumbered by the
independent. It would be only a matter of a few years between the adoption of Sane Voting and
the disappearance of the Cabinet from British public life. It would become possible for Parliament
to get rid of a minister without getting rid of a ministry, and to express its disapproval
of--let us say--some foolish project for rearranging the local government of Ireland without
opening the door upon a vista of fantastical fiscal adventures. The party-supported Cabinet,
which is now the real government of the so-called democratic countries, would cease to be so,
and government would revert more and more to the legislative assembly. And not only would the
latter body resume government, but it would also necessarily take into itself all those large
and growing exponents of extra-parliamentary discontent that now darken the social future.
The case of the armed "Unionist" rebel in Ulster, the case of the workman who engages in sabotage,
the case for sympathetic strikes and the general strike, all these cases are identical in this,
that they declare Parliament a fraud, that justice lies outside it and hopelessly outside it,
and that to seek redress through Parliament is a waste of time and energy. Sane Voting would
deprive all these destructive movements of the excuse and necessity for violence.

There is, I know, a disposition in some quarters to minimise the importance of Proportional
Representation, as though it were a mere readjustment of voting methods. It is nothing of the
sort; it is a prospective revolution. It will revolutionise government far more than a mere
change from kingdom to republic or vice versa could possibly do; it will give a new and unprecedented
sort of government to the world. The real leaders of the country will govern the country. For
Great Britain, for example, instead of the secret, dubious and dubitable Cabinet, which is
the real British government of to-day, poised on an unwieldy and crowded House of Commons,
we should have open government by the representatives of, let us say, twenty great provinces,
Ulster, Wales, London, for example, each returning from twelve to thirty members. It would
be a steadier, stabler, more confident, and more trusted government than the world has ever
seen before. Ministers, indeed, and even ministries might come and go, but that would not matter,
as it does now, because there would be endless alternatives through which the assembly could
express itself instead of the choice between two parties.

The arguments against Proportional Representation that have been advanced hitherto are trivial
in comparison with its enormous advantages. Implicit in them all is the supposition that public
opinion is at bottom a foolish thing, and that electoral methods are to pacify rather than
express a people. It is possibly true that notorious windbags, conspicuously advertised adventurers,
and the heroes of temporary sensations may run a considerable chance upon the lists. My own
estimate of the popular wisdom is against the idea that any vividly prominent figure must needs
get in; I think the public is capable of appreciating, let us say, the charm and interest of
Mr. Sandow or Mr. Jack Johnson or Mr. Harry Lauder or Mr. Evan Roberts without wanting to send
these gentlemen into Parliament. And I think that the increased power that the Press would
have through its facilities in making reputations may also be exaggerated. Reputations are
mysterious things and not so easily forced, and even if it were possible for a section of the
Press to limelight a dozen or so figures up to the legislature, they would still have, I think,
to be interesting, sympathetic and individualised figures; and at the end they would be only
half a dozen among four hundred men of a repute more naturally achieved. A third objection
is that this reform would give us group politics and unstable government. It might very possibly
give us unstable ministries, but unstable ministries may mean stable government, and such stable
ministries as that which governs England at the present time may, by clinging obstinately to
office, mean the wildest fluctuations of policy. Mr. Ramsay Macdonald has drawn a picture of
the too-representative Parliament of Proportional Representation, split up into groups each
pledged to specific measures and making the most extraordinary treaties and sacrifices of the
public interest in order to secure the passing of these definite bills. But Mr. Ramsay Macdonald
is exclusively a parliamentary man; he knows contemporary parliamentary "shop" as a clerk knows
his "guv'nor," and he thinks in the terms of his habitual life; he sees representatives only
as politicians financed from party headquarters; it is natural that he should fail to see that
the quality and condition of the sanely elected Member of Parliament will be quite different
from these scheming climbers into positions of trust with whom he deals to-day. It is the party
system based on insane voting that makes governments indivisible wholes and gives the group
and the cave their terrors and their effectiveness. Mr. Ramsay Macdonald is as typical a product
of existing electoral methods as one could well have, and his peculiarly keen sense of the
power of intrigue in legislation is as good evidence as one could wish for of the need for
drastic change.

Of course, Sane Voting is not a short cut to the millennium, it is no way of changing human
nature, and in the new type of assembly, as in the old, spite, vanity, indolence, self-interest,
and downright dishonesty will play their part. But to object to a reform on that account is
not a particularly effective objection. These things will play their part, but it will be a
much smaller part in the new than in the old. It is like objecting to some projected and long-needed
railway because it does not propose to carry its passengers by immediate express to heaven.

THE AMERICAN POPULATION

Sec. 1

The social conditions and social future of America constitute a system of problems quite distinct
and separate from the social problems of any other part of the world. The nearest approach
to parallel conditions, and that on a far smaller and narrower scale, is found in the British
colonies and in the newly settled parts of Siberia. For while in nearly every other part of
the world the population of to-day is more or less completely descended from the prehistoric
population of the same region, and has developed its social order in a slow growth extending
over many centuries, the American population is essentially a transplanted population, a still
fluid and imperfect fusion of great fragments torn at this point or that from the gradually
evolved societies of Europe. The European social systems grow and flower upon their roots,
in soil which has made them and to which they are adapted. The American social accumulation
is a various collection of cuttings thrust into a new soil and respiring a new air, so different
that the question is still open to doubt, and indeed there are those who do doubt, how far
these cuttings are actually striking root and living and growing, whether indeed they are destined
to more than a temporary life in the new hemisphere. I propose to discuss and weigh certain
arguments for and against the belief that these ninety million people who constitute the United
States of America are destined to develop into a great distinctive nation with a character
and culture of its own.

Humanly speaking, the United States of America (and the same is true of Canada and all the
more prosperous, populous and progressive regions of South America) is a vast sea of newly
arrived and unstably rooted people. Of the seventy-six million inhabitants recorded by the
1900 census, ten and a half million were born and brought up in one or other of the European
social systems, and the parents of another twenty-six millions were foreigners. Another nine
million are of African negro descent. Fourteen million of the sixty-five million native-born
are living not in the state of their birth, but in other states to which they have migrated.
Of the thirty and a half million whites whose parents on both sides were native Americans,
a high proportion probably had one if not more grand-parents foreign-born. Nearly five and
a half million out of thirty-three and a half million whites in 1870 were foreign-born, and
another five and a quarter million the children of foreign-born parents. The children of the
latter five and a quarter million count, of course, in the 1900 census as native-born of native
parents. Immigration varies enormously with the activity of business, but in 1906 it rose for
the first time above a million.

These figures may be difficult to grasp. The facts may be seen in a more concrete form by the
visitor to Ellis Island, the receiving station for the immigrants into New York Harbour. One
goes to this place by tugs from the United States barge office in Battery Park, and in order
to see the thing properly one needs a letter of introduction to the commissioner in charge.
Then one is taken through vast barracks littered with people of every European race, every
type of low-class European costume, and every degree of dirtiness, to a central hall in which
the gist of the examining goes on. The floor of this hall is divided up into a sort of maze
of winding passages between lattice work, and along these passages, day after day, incessantly,
the immigrants go, wild-eyed Gipsies, Armenians, Greeks, Italians, Ruthenians, Cossacks, German
peasants, Scandinavians, a few Irish still, impoverished English, occasional Dutch; they halt
for a moment at little desks to exhibit papers, at other little desks to show their money and
prove they are not paupers, to have their eyes scanned by this doctor and their general bearing
by that. Their thumb-marks are taken, their names and heights and weights and so forth are
recorded for the card index; and so, slowly, they pass along towards America, and at last reach
a little wicket, the gate of the New World. Through this metal wicket drips the immigration
stream--all day long, every two or three seconds, an immigrant with a valise or a bundle, passes
the little desk and goes on past the well-managed money-changing place, past the carefully
organised separating ways that go to this railway or that, past the guiding, protecting officials--into
a new world. The great majority are young men and young women between seventeen and thirty,
good, youthful, hopeful peasant stock. They stand in a long string, waiting to go through that
wicket, with bundles, with little tin boxes, with cheap portmanteaus with odd packages, in
pairs, in families, alone, women with children, men with strings of dependents, young couples.
All day that string of human beads waits there, jerks forward, waits again; all day and every
day, constantly replenished, constantly dropping the end beads through the wicket, till the
units mount to hundreds and the hundreds to thousands.... In such a prosperous year as 1906
more immigrants passed through that wicket into America than children were born in the whole
of France.

This figure of a perpetual stream of new stranger citizens will serve to mark the primary distinction
between the American social problem and that of any European or Asiatic community.

The vast bulk of the population of the United States has, in fact, only got there from Europe
in the course of the last hundred years, and mainly since the accession of Queen Victoria to
the throne of Great Britain. That is the first fact that the student of the American social
future must realise. Only an extremely small proportion of its blood goes back now to those
who fought for freedom in the days of George Washington. The American community is not an expanded
colonial society that has become autonomous. It is a great and deepening pool of population
accumulating upon the area these predecessors freed, and since fed copiously by affluents from
every European community. Fresh ingredients are still being added in enormous quantity, in
quantity so great as to materially change the racial quality in a score of years. It is particularly
noteworthy that each accession of new blood seems to sterilise its predecessors. Had there
been no immigration at all into the United States, but had the rate of increase that prevailed
in 1810-20 prevailed to 1900, the population, which would then have been a purely native American
one, would have amounted to a hundred million--that is to say, to approximately nine million
in excess of the present total population. The new waves are for a time amazingly fecund, and
then comes a rapid fall in the birth-rate. The proportion of colonial and early republican
blood in the population is, therefore, probably far smaller even than the figures I have quoted
would suggest.

These accesses of new population have come in a series of waves, very much as if successive
reservoirs of surplus population in the Old World had been tapped, drained and exhausted. First
came the Irish and Germans, then Central Europeans of various types, then Poland and Western
Russia began to pour out their teeming peoples, and more particularly their Jews, Bohemia,
the Slavonic states, Italy and Hungary followed and the latest arrivals include great numbers
of Levantines, Armenians and other peoples from Asia Minor and the Balkan Peninsula. The Hungarian
immigrants have still a birth-rate of forty-six per thousand, the highest birth-rate in the world.

A considerable proportion of the Mediterranean arrivals, it has to be noted, and more especially
the Italians, do not come to settle. They work for a season or a few years, and then return
to Italy. The rest come to stay.

A vast proportion of these accessions to the American population since 1840 has, with the exception
of the East European Jews, consisted of peasantry, mainly or totally illiterate, accustomed
to a low standard of life and heavy bodily toil. For most of them the transfer to a new country
meant severance from the religious communion in which they had been bred and from the servilities
or subordinations to which they were accustomed They brought little or no positive social tradition
to the synthesis to which they brought their blood and muscle.

The earlier German, English and Scandinavian incomers were drawn from a somewhat higher social
level, and were much more closely akin in habits and faith to the earlier founders of the Republic.

Our inquiry is this: What social structure is this pool of mixed humanity developing or likely
to develop?

Sec. 2

If we compare any European nation with the American, we perceive at once certain broad differences.
The former, in comparison with the latter, is evolved and organised; the latter, in comparison
with the former, is aggregated and chaotic. In nearly every European country there is a social
system often quite elaborately classed and defined; each class with a sense of function, with
an idea of what is due to it and what is expected of it. Nearly everywhere you find a governing
class, aristocratic in spirit, sometimes no doubt highly modified by recent economic and industrial
changes, with more or less of the tradition of a feudal nobility, then a definite great mercantile
class, then a large self-respecting middle class of professional men, minor merchants, and
so forth, then a new industrial class of employees in the manufacturing and urban districts,
and a peasant population rooted to the land. There are, of course, many local modifications
of this form: in France the nobility is mostly expropriated; in England, since the days of
John Bull, the peasant has lost his common rights and his holding, and become an "agricultural
labourer" to a newer class of more extensive farmer. But these are differences in detail; the
fact of the organisation, and the still more important fact of the traditional feeling of organisation,
remain true of all these older communities.

And in nearly every European country, though it may be somewhat despoiled here and shorn of
exclusive predominance there, or represented by a dislocated "reformed" member, is the Church,
custodian of a great moral tradition, closely associated with the national universities and
the organisation of national thought. The typical European town has its castle or great house,
its cathedral or church, its middle-class and lower-class quarters. Five miles off one can
see that the American town is on an entirely different plan. In his remarkable "American Scene,"
Mr. Henry James calls attention to the fact that the Church as one sees it and feels it universally
in Europe is altogether absent, and he adds a comment as suggestive as it is vague. Speaking
of the appearance of the Churches, so far as they do appear amidst American urban scenery, he says:

  "Looking for the most part no more established or
  seated than a stopped omnibus, they are reduced to the
  inveterate bourgeois level (that of private, accommodated
  pretensions merely), and fatally despoiled of the fine old
  ecclesiastical arrogance, ... The field of American life is
  as bare of the Church as a billiard-table of a centre-piece; a
  truth that the myriad little structures 'attended' on Sundays
  and on the 'off' evenings of their 'sociables' proclaim as
  with the audible sound of the roaring of a million mice....

  "And however one indicates one's impression of the
  clearance, the clearance itself, in its completeness, with the
  innumerable odd connected circumstances that bring it
  home, represents, in the history of manners and morals, a
  deviation in the mere measurement of which hereafter may
  well reside a certain critical thrill. I say hereafter because
  it is a question of one of those many measurements that
  would as yet, in the United States, be premature. Of all
  the solemn conclusions one feels as 'barred,' the list is quite
  headed in the States, I think, by this particular abeyance
  of judgment. When an ancient treasure of precious vessels,
  overscored with glowing gems and wrought artistically into
  wondrous shapes, has, by a prodigious process, been converted
  through a vast community into the small change,
  the simple circulating medium of dollars and 'nickels,' we
  can only say that the consequent permeation will be of
  values of a new order. Of what order we must wait to
  see."

America has no Church. Neither has it a peasantry nor an aristocracy, and until well on in
the Victorian epoch it had no disproportionately rich people.

In America, except in the regions where the negro abounds, there is no lower stratum. There
is no "soil people" to this community at all; your bottom-most man is a mobile freeman who
can read, and who has ideas above digging and pigs and poultry-keeping, except incidentally
for his own ends. No one owns to subordination As a consequence, any position which involves
the acknowledgment of an innate inferiority is difficult to fill; there is, from the European
point of view, an extraordinary dearth of servants, and this endures in spite of a great peasant
immigration. The servile tradition will not root here now; it dies forthwith. An enormous importation
of European serfs and peasants goes on, but as they touch this soil their backs begin to stiffen
with a new assertion.

And at the other end of the scale, also, one misses an element. There is no territorial aristocracy,
no aristocracy at all, no throne, no legitimate and acknowledged representative of that upper
social structure of leisure, power and State responsibility which in the old European theory
of Society was supposed to give significance to the whole. The American community, one cannot
too clearly insist, does not correspond to an entire European community at all, but only to
the middle masses of it, to the trading and manufacturing class between the dimensions of the
magnate and the clerk and skilled artisan. It is the central part of the European organism
without either the dreaming head or the subjugated feet. Even the highly feudal slave-holding
"county family" traditions of Virginia and the South pass now out of memory. So that in a very
real sense the past of the American nation is in Europe, and the settled order of the past
is left behind there. This community was, as it were, taken off its roots, clipped of its branches,
and brought hither. It began neither serf nor lord, but burgher and farmer; it followed the
normal development of the middle class under Progress everywhere and became capitalistic. The
huge later immigration has converged upon the great industrial centres and added merely a vast
non-servile element of employees to the scheme.

America has been and still very largely is a one-class country. It is a great sea of human
beings detached from their traditions of origin. The social difference from Europe appears
everywhere, and nowhere more strikingly than in the railway carriages. In England the compartments
in these are either "first class," originally designed for the aristocracy, or "second class,"
for the middle class, or "third class," for the populace. In America there is only one class,
one universal simple democratic car. In the Southern States, however, a proportion of these
simple democratic cars are inscribed with the word "White," whereby nine million people are
excluded. But to this original even-handed treatment there was speedily added a more sumptuous
type of car, the parlour car, accessible to extra dollars; and then came special types of train,
all made up of parlour cars and observation cars and the like. In England nearly every train
remains still first, second and third, or first and third. And now, quite outdistancing the
differentiation of England, America produces private cars and private trains, such as Europe
reserves only for crowned heads.

The evidence of the American railways, then, suggests very strongly what a hundred other signs
confirm, that the huge classless sea of American population is not destined to remain classless,
is already developing separations and distinctions and structures of its own. And monstrous
architectural portents in Boston and Salt Lake City encourage one to suppose that even that
churchless aspect, which so stirred the speculative element in Mr. Henry James, is only the
opening formless phase of a community destined to produce not only classes but intellectual
and moral forms of the most remarkable kind.

Sec. 3

It is well to note how these ninety millions of people whose social future we are discussing
are distributed. This huge development of human appliances and resources is here going on in
a community that is still, for all the dense crowds of New York, the teeming congestion of
East Side, extraordinarily scattered. America, one recalls, is still an unoccupied country
across which the latest developments of civilisation are rushing. We are dealing here with
a continuous area of land which is, leaving Alaska out of account altogether, equal to Great
Britain, France, the German Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Italy, Belgium, Japan, Holland,
Spain and Portugal, Sweden and Norway, Turkey in Europe, Egypt and the whole Empire of India,
and the population spread out over this vast space is still less than the joint population
of the first two countries named and not a quarter that of India.

Moreover, it is not spread at all evenly. Much of it is in undistributed clots. It is not upon
the soil; barely half of it is in holdings and homes and authentic communities. It is a population
of an extremely modern type. Urban concentration has already gone far with it; fifteen millions
of it are crowded into and about twenty great cities, another eighteen millions make up five
hundred towns. Between these centres of population run railways indeed, telegraph wires, telephone
connections, tracks of various sorts, but to the European eye these are mere scratchings on
a virgin surface. An empty wilderness manifests itself through this thin network of human conveniences,
appears in the meshes even at the railroad side.

Essentially, America is still an unsettled land, with only a few incidental good roads in favoured
places, with no universal police, with no wayside inns where a civilised man may rest, with
still only the crudest of rural postal deliveries, with long stretches of swamp and forest
and desert by the track side, still unassailed by industry. This much one sees clearly enough
eastward of Chicago. Westward it becomes more and more the fact. In Idaho, at last, comes the
untouched and perhaps invincible desert, plain and continuous through the long hours of travel.
Huge areas do not contain one human being to the square mile, still vaster portions fall short
of two....

It is upon Pennsylvania and New York State and the belt of great towns that stretches out past
Chicago to Milwaukee and Madison that the nation centres and seems destined to centre. One
needs but examine a tinted population map to realise that. The other concentrations are provincial
and subordinate; they have the same relation to the main axis that Glasgow or Cardiff have
to London in the British scheme.

Sec. 4

When I speak of this vast multitude, these ninety millions of the United States of America
as being for the most part peasants de-peasant-ised and common people cut off from their own
social traditions, I do not intend to convey that the American community is as a whole traditionless.
There is in America a very distinctive tradition indeed, which animates the entire nation,
gives a unique idiom to its press and all its public utterances, and is manifestly the starting
point from which the adjustments of the future must be made.

The mere sight of the stars and stripes serves to recall it; "Yankee" in the mouth of a European
gives something of its quality. One thinks at once of a careless abandonment of any pretension,
of tireless energy and daring enterprise, of immense self-reliance, of a disrespect for the
past so complete that a mummy is in itself a comical object, and the blowing out of an ill-guarded
sacred flame, a delightful jest. One thinks of the enterprise of the sky-scraper and the humour
of "A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur," and of "Innocents Abroad." Its dominant notes are
democracy, freedom, and confidence. It is religious-spirited without superstition consciously
Christian in the vein of a nearly Unitarian Christianity, fervent but broadened, broadened
as a halfpenny is broadened by being run over by an express train, substantially the same,
that is to say, but with a marked loss of outline and detail. It is a tradition of romantic
concession to good and inoffensive women and a high development of that personal morality which
puts sexual continence and alcoholic temperance before any public virtue. It is equally a tradition
of sporadic emotional public-spiritedness, entirely of the quality of gallantry, of handsome
and surprising gifts to the people, disinterested occupation of office and the like. It is
emotionally patriotic, hypotheticating fighting and dying for one's country as a supreme good
while inculcating also that working and living for oneself is quite within the sphere of virtuous
action. It adores the flag but suspects the State. One sees more national flags and fewer national
servants in America than in any country in the world. Its conception of manners is one of free
plain-spoken men revering women and shielding them from most of the realities of life, scornful
of aristocracies and monarchies, while asserting simply, directly, boldly and frequently an
equal claim to consideration with all other men. If there is any traditional national costume,
it is shirt-sleeves. And it cherishes the rights of property above any other right whatsoever.

Such are the details that come clustering into one's mind in response to the phrase, the American
tradition.

From the War of Independence onward until our own times that tradition, that very definite
ideal, has kept pretty steadily the same. It is the image of a man and not the image of a State.
Its living spirit has been the spirit of freedom at any cost, unconditional and irresponsible.
It is the spirit of men who have thrown off a yoke, who are jealously resolved to be unhampered
masters of their "own," to whom nothing else is of anything but secondary importance. That
was the spirit of the English small gentry and mercantile class, the comfortable property owners,
the Parliamentarians, in Stuart times. Indeed even earlier, it is very largely the spirit of
More's "Utopia." It was that spirit sent Oliver Cromwell himself packing for America, though
a heedless and ill-advised and unforeseeing King would not let him go. It was the spirit that
made taxation for public purposes the supreme wrong and provoked each country, first the mother
country and then in its turn the daughter country, to armed rebellion. It has been the spirit
of the British Whig and the British Nonconformist almost up to the present day. In the Reform
Club of London, framed and glazed over against Magna Charta, is the American Declaration of
Independence, kindred trophies they are of the same essentially English spirit of stubborn
insubordination. But the American side of it has gone on unchecked by the complementary aspect
of the English character which British Toryism expresses.

The War of Independence raised that Whig suspicion of and hostility to government and the freedom
of private property and the repudiation of any but voluntary emotional and supererogatory co-operation
in the national purpose to the level of a religion, and the American Constitution with but
one element of elasticity in the Supreme Court decisions, established these principles impregnably
in the political structure. It organised disorganisation. Personal freedom, defiance of authority,
and the stars and stripes have always gone together in men's minds; and subsequent waves of
immigration, the Irish fleeing famine, for which they held the English responsible, and the
Eastern European Jews escaping relentless persecutions, brought a persuasion of immense public
wrongs, as a necessary concomitant of systematic government, to refresh without changing this
defiant thirst for freedom at any cost.

In my book, "The Future in America," I have tried to make an estimate of the working quality
of this American tradition of unconditional freedom for the adult male citizen. I have shown
that from the point of view of anyone who regards civilisation as an organisation of human
interdependence and believes that the stability of society can be secured only by a conscious
and disciplined co-ordination of effort, it is a tradition extraordinarily and dangerously
deficient in what I have called a "sense of the State." And by a "sense of the State" I mean
not merely a vague and sentimental and showy public-spiritedness--of that the States have enough
and to spare--but a real sustaining conception of the collective interest embodied in the State
as an object of simple duty and as a determining factor in the life of each individual. It
involves a sense of function and a sense of "place," a sense of a general responsibility and
of a general well-being overriding the individual's well-being, which are exactly the senses
the American tradition attacks and destroys.

For the better part of a century the American tradition, quite as much by reason of what it
disregards as of what it suggests, has meant a great release of human energy, a vigorous if
rough and untidy exploitation of the vast resources that the European invention of railways
and telegraphic communication put within reach of the American people. It has stimulated men
to a greater individual activity, perhaps, than the world has ever seen before. Men have been
wasted by misdirection no doubt, but there has been less waste by inaction and lassitude than
was the case in any previous society. Great bulks of things and great quantities of things
have been produced, huge areas brought under cultivation, vast cities reared in the wilderness.

But this tradition has failed to produce the beginnings or promise of any new phase of civilised
organisation, the growths have remained largely invertebrate and chaotic, and, concurrently
with its gift of splendid and monstrous growth, it has also developed portentous political
and economic evils. No doubt the increment of human energy has been considerable, but it has
been much less than appears at first sight. Much of the human energy that America has displayed
in the last century is not a development of new energy but a diversion. It has been accompanied
by a fall in the birth-rate that even the immigration torrent has not altogether replaced.
Its insistence on the individual, its disregard of the collective organisation, its treatment
of women and children as each man's private concern, has had its natural outcome. Men's imaginations
have been turned entirely upon individual and immediate successes and upon concrete triumphs;
they have had no regard or only an ineffectual sentimental regard for the race. Every man was
looking after himself, and there was no one to look after the future. Had the promise of 1815
been fulfilled, there would now be in the United States of America one hundred million descendants
of the homogeneous and free-spirited native population of that time. There is not, as a matter
of fact, more than thirty-five million. There is probably, as I have pointed out, much less.
Against the assets of cities, railways, mines and industrial wealth won, the American tradition
has to set the price of five-and-seventy million native citizens who have never found time
to get born, and whose place is now more or less filled by alien substitutes. Biologically
speaking, this is not a triumph for the American tradition. It is, however, very clearly an
outcome of the intense individualism of that tradition. Under the sway of that it has burnt
its future in the furnace to keep up steam.

The next and necessary evil consequent upon this exaltation of the individual and private property
over the State, over the race that is and over public property, has been a contempt for public
service. It has identified public spirit with spasmodic acts of public beneficence. The American
political ideal became a Cincinnatus whom nobody sent for and who therefore never left his
plough. There has ensued a corrupt and undignified political life, speaking claptrap, dark
with violence, illiterate and void of statesmanship or science, forbidding any healthy social
development through public organisation at home, and every year that the increasing facilities
of communication draw the alien nations closer, deepening the risks of needless and disastrous
wars abroad.

And in the third place it is to be remarked that the American tradition has defeated its dearest
aims of a universal freedom and a practical equality. The economic process of the last half-century,
so far as America is concerned has completely justified the generalisations of Marx. There
has been a steady concentration of wealth and of the reality as distinguished from the forms
of power in the hands of a small energetic minority, and a steady approximation of the condition
of the mass of the citizens to that of the so-called proletariat of the European communities.
The tradition of individual freedom and equality is, in fact, in process of destroying the
realities of freedom and equality out of which it rose. Instead of the six hundred thousand
families of the year 1790, all at about the same level of property and, excepting the peculiar
condition of seven hundred thousand blacks, with scarcely anyone in the position of a hireling,
we have now as the most striking, though by no means the most important, fact in American social
life a frothy confusion of millionaires' families, just as wasteful, foolish and vicious as
irresponsible human beings with unlimited resources have always shown themselves to be. And,
concurrently with the appearance of these concentrations of great wealth, we have appearing
also poverty, poverty of a degree that was quite unknown in the United States for the first
century of their career as an independent nation. In the last few decades slums as frightful
as any in Europe have appeared with terrible rapidity, and there has been a development of
the viler side of industrialism, of sweating and base employment of the most ominous kind.

In Mr. Robert Hunter's "Poverty" one reads of "not less than eighty thousand children, most
of whom are little girls, at present employed in the textile mills of this country. In the
South there are now six times as many children at work as there were twenty years ago. Child
labour is increasing yearly in that section of the country. Each year more little ones are
brought in from the fields and hills to live in the degrading and demoralising atmosphere of
the mill towns...."

Children are deliberately imported by the Italians. I gathered from Commissioner Watchorn at
Ellis Island that the proportion of little nephews and nieces, friends' sons and so forth brought
in by them is peculiarly high, and I heard him try and condemn a doubtful case. It was a particularly
unattractive Italian in charge of a dull-eyed little boy of no ascertainable relationship....

In the worst days of cotton-milling in England the conditions were hardly worse than those
now existing in the South. Children, the tiniest and frailest, of five and six years of age,
rise in the morning and, like old men and women, go to the mills to do their day's labour;
and, when they return home, "wearily fling themselves on their beds, too tired to take off
their clothes." Many children work all night--"in the maddening racket of the machinery, in
an atmosphere insanitary and clouded with humidity and lint."

"It will be long," adds Mr. Hunter in his description, "before I forget the face of a little
boy of six years, with his hands stretched forward to rearrange a bit of machinery, his pallid
face and spare form already showing the physical effects of labour. This child, six years of
age, was working twelve hours a day."

From Mr. Spargo's "Bitter Cry of the Children" I learn this much of the joys of certain among
the youth of Pennsylvania:

"For ten or eleven hours a day children of ten and eleven stoop over the chute and pick out
the slate and other impurities from the coal as it moves past them. The air is black with coal
dust, and the roar of the crushers, screens and rushing mill-race of coal is deafening. Sometimes
one of the children falls into the machinery and is terribly mangled, or slips into the chute
and is smothered to death. Many children are killed in this way. Many others, after a time,
contract coal-miners asthma and consumption, which gradually undermine their health. Breathing
continually day after day the clouds of coal dust, their lungs become black and choked with
small particles of anthracite...."

In Massachusetts, at Fall River, the Hon. J.F. Carey tells how little naked boys, free Americans,
work for Mr. Borden, the New York millionaire, packing cloth into bleaching vats, in a bath
of chemicals that bleaches their little bodies like the bodies of lepers....

Altogether it would seem that at least one million and a half children are growing up in the
United States of America stunted and practically uneducated because of unregulated industrialism.
These children, ill-fed, ill-trained mentally benighted, since they are alive and active, since
they are an active and positive and not a negative evil, are even more ominous in the American
outlook than those five and sixty million of good race and sound upbringing who will now never
be born.

Sec. 5

It must be repeated that the American tradition is really the tradition of one particular ingredient
in this great admixture and stirring up of peoples. This ingredient is the Colonial British,
whose seventeenth century Puritanism and eighteenth century mercantile radicalism and rationalism
manifestly furnished all the stuff out of which the American tradition is made. It is this
stuff planted in virgin soil and inflated to an immense and buoyant optimism by colossal and
unanticipated material prosperity and success. From that British middle-class tradition comes
the individualist protestant spirit, the keen self-reliance and personal responsibility, the
irresponsible expenditure, the indiscipline and mystical faith in things being managed properly
if they are only let alone. "State-blindness" is the natural and almost inevitable quality
of a middle-class tradition, a class that has been forced neither to rule nor obey, which has
been concentrated and successfully concentrated on private gain.

This middle-class British section of the American population was, and is to this day, the only
really articulate ingredient in its mental composition. And so it has had a monopoly in providing
the American forms of thought. The other sections of peoples that have been annexed by or have
come into this national synthesis are silent so far as any contribution to the national stock
of ideas and ideals is concerned. There are, for example, those great elements, the Spanish
Catholics, the French Catholic population of Louisiana, the Irish Catholics, the French-Canadians
who are now ousting the sterile New Englander from New England, the Germans, the Italians the
Hungarians. Comparatively they say nothing. From all the ten million of coloured people come
just two or three platform voices, Booker Washington, Dubois, Mrs. Church Terrell, mere protests
at specific wrongs. The clever, restless Eastern European Jews, too, have still to find a voice.
Professor Münsterberg has written with a certain bitterness of the inaudibility of the German
element in the American population. They allow themselves, he remonstrates, to count for nothing.
They did not seem to exist, he points out, even in politics until prohibitionist fury threatened
their beer. Then, indeed, the American German emerged from silence and obscurity, but only
to rescue his mug and retire again with it into enigmatical silence.

If there is any exception to this predominance of the tradition of the English-speaking, originally
middle-class, English-thinking northerner in the American mind, it is to be found in the spread
of social democracy outward from the festering tenement houses of Chicago into the mining and
agrarian regions of the middle west. It is a fierce form of socialist teaching that speaks
throughout these regions, far more closely akin to the revolutionary Socialism of the continent
of Europe than to the constructive and evolutionary Socialism of Great Britain. Its typical
organ is The Appeal to Reason, which circulates more than a quarter of a million copies weekly
from Kansas City. It is a Socialism reeking with class feeling and class hatred and altogether
anarchistic in spirit; a new and highly indigestible contribution to the American moral and
intellectual synthesis. It is remarkable chiefly as the one shrill exception in a world of
plastic acceptance.

Now it is impossible to believe that this vast silence of these imported and ingested factors
that the American nation has taken to itself is as acquiescent as it seems. No doubt they are
largely taking over the traditional forms of American thought and expression quietly and without
protest, and wearing them; but they will wear them as a man wears a misfit, shaping and adapting
it every day more and more to his natural form, here straining a seam and there taking in a
looseness. A force of modification must be at work. It must be at work in spite of the fact
that, with the exception of social democracy, it does not anywhere show as a protest or a fresh
beginning or a challenge to the prevailing forms.

How far it has actually been at work is, perhaps, to be judged best by an observant stroller,
surveying the crowds of a Sunday evening in New York, or read in the sheets of such a mirror
of popular taste as the Sunday edition of the New York American or the New York Herald. In
the former just what I mean by the silent modification of the old tradition is quite typically
shown. Its leading articles are written by Mr. Arthur Brisbane, the son of one of the Brook
Farm Utopians, that gathering in which Hawthorne and Henry James senior, and Margaret Fuller
participated, and in which the whole brilliant world of Boston's past, the world of Emerson,
Longfellow, Thoreau, was interested. Mr. Brisbane is a very distinguished man, quite over and
above the fact that he is paid the greatest salary of any journalist in the world. He writes
with a wit and directness that no other living man can rival, and he holds up constantly what
is substantially the American ideal of the past century to readers who evidently need strengthening
in it. It is, of course, the figure of a man and not of a State; it is a man, clean, clean
shaved and almost obtrusively strong-jawed, honest, muscular, alert, pushful, chivalrous, self-reliant,
non-political except when he breaks into shrewd and penetrating voting--"you can fool all the
people some of the time," etc.--and independent--independent--in a world which is therefore
certain to give way to him.

His doubts, his questionings, his aspirations, are dealt with by Mr. Brisbane with a simple
direct fatherliness with all the beneficent persuasiveness of a revivalist preacher. Millions
read these leaders and feel a momentary benefit, en route for the more actual portions of the
paper. He asks: "Why are all men gamblers?" He discusses our Longing for Immortal Imperfection,
and "Did we once live on the moon?" He recommends the substitution of whisky and soda for neat
whisky, drawing an illustration from the comparative effect of the diluted and of the undiluted
liquid as an eye-wash ("Try whisky on your friend's eyeball!" is the heading), sleep ("The
man who loses sleep will make a failure of his life, or at least diminish greatly his chances
of success"), and the education of the feminine intelligence ("The cow that kicks her weaned
calf is all heart"). He makes identically the same confident appeal to the moral motive which
was for so long the salvation of the Puritan individualism from which the American tradition
derives. "That hand," he writes, "which supports the head of the new-born baby, the mother's
hand, supports the civilisation of the world."

But that sort of thing is not saving the old native strain in the population. It moves people,
no doubt, but inadequately. And here is a passage that is quite the quintessence of Americanism,
of all its deep moral feeling and sentimental untruthfulness. I wonder if any man but an American
or a British nonconformist in a state of rhetorical excitement ever believed that Shakespeare
wrote his plays or Michael Angelo painted in a mood of humanitarian exaltation, "for the good
of all men."

  "What shall we strive for? Money?

  "Get a thousand millions. Your day will come, and
  in due course the graveyard rat will gnaw as calmly at
  your bump of acquisitiveness as at the mean coat of the
  pauper.

  "Then shall we strive for power?

  "The names of the first great kings of the world are
  forgotten, and the names of all those whose power we envy
  will drift to forgetfulness soon. What does the most powerful
  man in the world amount to standing at the brink of
  Niagara, with his solar plexus trembling? What is his
  power compared with the force of the wind or the energy
  of one small wave sweeping along the shore?

  "The power which man can build up within himself,
  for himself, is nothing. Only the dull reasoning of gratified
  egotism can make it seem worth while.

  "Then what is worth while? Let us look at some of
  the men who have come and gone, and whose lives inspire
  us. Take a few at random:

  "Columbus, Michael Angelo, Wilberforce, Shakespeare,
  Galileo, Fulton, Watt, Hargreaves--these will do.

  "Let us ask ourselves this question: 'Was there any
  one thing that distinguished all their lives,
  that united all these men, active in fields so different?'

  "Yes. Every man among them, and every man whose
  life history is worth the telling, did something for the good
  of other men....

  "Get money if you can. Get power if you can; Then, if
  you want to be more than the ten thousand million unknown
  mingled in the dust beneath you, see what good you can
  do with your money and your power.

  "If you are one of the many millions who have not
  and can't get money or power, see what good you can do
  without either:

  "You can help carry a load for an old man. You can
  encourage and help a poor devil trying to reform. You
  can set a good example to children. You can stick to the
  men with whom you work, fighting honestly for their
  welfare.

  "Time was when the ablest man would rather kill ten
  men than feed a thousand children. That time has gone.
  We do not care much about feeding the children, but we
  care less about killing the men. To that extent we have
  improved already.

  "The day will come when we shall prefer helping our
  neighbour to robbing him--legally--of a million dollars.

  "Do what good you can now, while it is unusual,
  and have the satisfaction of being a pioneer and an
  eccentric."

It is the voice of the American tradition strained to the utmost to make itself audible to
the new world, and cracking into italics and breaking into capitals with the strain. The rest
of that enormous bale of paper is eloquent of a public void of moral ambitions, lost to any
sense of comprehensive things, deaf to ideas, impervious to generalisations, a public which
has carried the conception of freedom to its logical extreme of entire individual detachment.
These tell-tale columns deal all with personality and the drama of personal life. They witness
to no interest but the interest in intense individual experiences. The engagements, the love
affairs, the scandals of conspicuous people are given in pitiless detail in articles adorned
with vigorous portraits and sensational pictorial comments. Even the eavesdroppers who write
this stuff strike the personal note, and their heavily muscular portraits frown beside the
initial letter. Murders and crimes are worked up to the keenest pitch of realisation, and any
new indelicacy in fashionable costume, any new medical device or cure, any new dance or athleticism,
any new breach in the moral code, any novelty in sea bathing or the woman's seat on horseback,
or the like, is given copious and moving illustration, stirring headlines, and eloquent reprobation.
There is a coloured supplement of knock-about fun, written chiefly in the quaint dialect of
the New York slums. It is a language from which "th" has vanished, and it presents a world
in which the kicking by a mule of an endless succession of victims is an inexhaustible joy
to young and old. "Dat ole Maud!" There is a smaller bale dealing with sport. In the advertisement
columns one finds nothing of books, nothing of art; but great choice of bust developers, hair
restorers, nervous tonics, clothing sales, self-contained flats, and business opportunities....

Individuality has, in fact, got home to itself, and, as people say, taken off its frills. All
but one; Mr. Arthur Brisbane's eloquence one may consider as the last stitch of the old costume--mere
decoration. Excitement remains the residual object in life. The New York American represents
a clientele to be counted by the hundred thousand, manifestly with no other solicitudes, just
burning to live and living to burn.

Sec. 6

The modifications of the American tradition that will occur through its adoption by these silent
foreign ingredients in the racial synthesis are not likely to add to it or elaborate it in
any way. They tend merely to simplify it to bare irresponsible non-moral individualism. It
is with the detail and qualification of a tradition as with the inflexions of a language; when
another people takes it over the refinements disappear. But there are other forces of modification
at work upon the American tradition of an altogether more hopeful kind. It has entered upon
a constructive phase. Were it not so, then the American social outlook would, indeed, be hopeless.

The effectual modifying force at work is not the strangeness nor the temperamental maladjustment
of the new elements of population, but the conscious realisation of the inadequacy of the tradition
on the part of the more intelligent sections of the American population. That blind national
conceit that would hear no criticism and admit no deficiency has disappeared. In the last decade
such a change has come over the American mind as sometimes comes over a vigorous and wilful
child. Suddenly it seems to have grown up, to have begun to weigh its powers and consider its
possible deficiencies. There was a time when American confidence and self-satisfaction seemed
impregnable; at the slightest qualm of doubt America took to violent rhetoric as a drunkard
resorts to drink. Now the indictment I have drawn up harshly, bluntly and unflatteringly in
Sec. 4 would receive the endorsement of American after American. The falling birth-rate of
all the best elements in the State, the cankering effect of political corruption, the crumbling
of independence and equality before the progressive aggregation of wealth--he has to face them,
he cannot deny them. There has arisen a new literature, the literature of national self-examination,
that seems destined to modify the American tradition profoundly. To me it seems to involve
the hope and possibility of a conscious collective organisation of social life.

If ever there was an epoch-marking book it was surely Henry Demarest Lloyd's "Wealth against
Commonwealth." It marks an epoch not so much by what it says as by what it silently abandons.
It was published in 1894, and it stated in the very clearest terms the incompatibility of the
almost limitless freedom of property set up by the constitution, with the practical freedom
and general happiness of the mass of men. It must be admitted that Lloyd never followed up
the implications of this repudiation. He made his statements in the language of the tradition
he assailed, and foreshadowed the replacement of chaos by order in quite chaotic and mystical
appeals. Here, for instance, is a typical passage from "Man, the Social Creator".

  "Property is now a stumbling-block to the people, just
  as government has been. Property will not be abolished,
  but, like government, it will be democratised.

  "The philosophy of self-interest as the social solution
  was a good living and working synthesis in the days when
  civilisation was advancing its frontiers twenty miles a day
  across the American continent, and every man for himself
  was the best social mobilisation possible.

  "But to-day it is a belated ghost that has overstayed
  the cock-crow. These were frontier morals. But this same,
  everyone for himself, becomes most immoral when the
  frontier is abolished and the pioneer becomes the fellow-citizen
  and these frontier morals are most uneconomic when
  labour can be divided and the product multiplied. Most
  uneconomic, for they make closure the rule of industry,
  leading not to wealth, but to that awful waste of wealth
  which is made visible to every eye in our unemployed--not
  hands alone, but land, machinery, and, most of all, hearts.
  Those who still practise these frontier morals are like
  criminals, who, according to the new science of penology,
  are simply reappearances of old types. Their acquisitiveness
  once divine like Mercury's, is now out of place except
  in jail. Because out of place, they are a danger. A sorry
  day it is likely to be for those who are found in the way
  when the new people rise to rush into each other's arms,
  to get together, to stay together and to live together. The
  labour movement halts because so many of its rank and
  file--and all its leaders--do not see clearly the golden thread
  of love on which have been strung together all the past
  glories of human association, and which is to serve for
  the link of the new Association of Friends who Labour,
  whose motto is 'All for All.'"

The establishment of the intricate co-operative commonwealth by a rush of eighty million flushed
and shiny-eyed enthusiasts, in fact, is Lloyd's proposal. He will not face, and few Americans
to this day will face, the cold need of a great science of social adjustment and a disciplined
and rightly ordered machinery to turn such enthusiasms to effect. They seem incurably wedded
to gush. However, he did express clearly enough the opening phase of American disillusionment
with the wild go-as-you-please that had been the conception of life in America through a vehement,
wasteful, expanding century. And he was the precursor of what is now a bulky and extremely
influential literature of national criticism. A number of writers, literary investigators one
may call them, or sociological men of letters, or magazine publicists--they are a little difficult
to place--has taken up the inquiry into the condition of civic administration, into economic
organisation into national politics and racial interaction, with a frank fearlessness and an
absence of windy eloquence that has been to many Europeans a surprising revelation of the reserve
forces of the American mind. President Roosevelt, that magnificent reverberator of ideas, that
gleam of wilful humanity, that fantastic first interruption to the succession of machine-made
politicians at the White House, has echoed clearly to this movement and made it an integral
part of the general intellectual movement of America.

It is to these first intimations of the need of a "sense of the State" in America that I would
particularly direct the reader's attention in this discussion. They are the beginnings of what
is quite conceivably a great and complex reconstructive effort. I admit they are but beginnings.
They may quite possibly wither and perish presently; they may much more probably be seized
upon by adventurers and converted into a new cant almost as empty and fruitless as the old.
The fact remains that, through this busy and immensely noisy confusion of nearly a hundred
millions of people, these little voices go intimating more and more clearly the intention to
undertake public affairs in a new spirit and upon new principles, to strengthen the State and
the law against individual enterprise, to have done with those national superstitions under
which hypocrisy and disloyalty and private plunder have sheltered and prospered for so long.

Just as far as these reform efforts succeed and develop is the organisation of the United States
of America into a great, self-conscious, civilised nation, unparalleled in the world's history,
possible; just as far as they fail is failure written over the American future. The real interest
of America for the next century to the student of civilisation will be the development of these
attempts, now in their infancy, to create and realise out of this racial hotchpotch, this human
chaos, an idea, of the collective commonwealth as the datum of reference for every individual life.

Sec. 7

I have hinted in the last section that there is a possibility that the new wave of constructive
ideas in American thought may speedily develop a cant of its own. But even then, a constructive
cant is better than a destructive one. Even the conscious hypocrite has to do something to
justify his pretences, and the mere disappearance from current thought of the persuasion that
organisation is a mistake and discipline needless, clears the ground of one huge obstacle even
if it guarantees nothing about the consequent building.

But, apart from this, are there more solid and effectual forces behind this new movement of
ideas that makes for organisation in American medley at the present time?

The speculative writer casting about for such elements lights upon four sets of possibilities
which call for discussion. First, one has to ask: How far is the American plutocracy likely
to be merely a wasteful and chaotic class, and how far is it likely to become consciously aristocratic
and constructive? Secondly, and in relation to this, what possibilities of pride and leading
are there in the great university foundations of America? Will they presently begin to tell
as a restraining and directing force upon public thought? Thirdly, will the growing American
Socialist movement, which at present is just as anarchistic and undisciplined in spirit as
everything else in America, presently perceive the constructive implications of its general
propositions and become statesmanlike and constructive? And, fourthly, what are the latent
possibilities of the American women? Will women as they become more and more aware of themselves
as a class and of the problem of their sex become a force upon the anarchistic side, a force
favouring race-suicide, or upon the constructive side which plans and builds and bears the future?

The only possible answer to each one of these questions at present is guessing and an estimate.
But the only way in which a conception of the American social future may be reached lies through
their discussion.

Let us begin by considering what constructive forces may exist in this new plutocracy which
already so largely sways American economic and political development. The first impression
is one of extravagant and aimless expenditure, of a class irresponsible and wasteful beyond
all precedent. One gets a Zolaesque picture of that aspect in Mr. Upton Sinclair's "Metropolis,"
or the fashionable intelligence of the popular New York Sunday editions, and one finds a good
deal of confirmatory evidence in many incidental aspects of the smart American life of Paris
and the Riviera. The evidence in the notorious Thaw trial, after one has discounted its theatrical
elements, was still a very convincing demonstration of a rotten and extravagant, because aimless
and functionless, class of rich people. But one has to be careful in this matter if one is
to do justice to the facts. If a thing is made up of two elements, and one is noisy and glaringly
coloured, and the other is quiet and colourless, the first impression created will be that
the thing is identical with the element that is noisy and glaringly coloured. One is much less
likely to hear of the broad plans and the quality of the wise, strong and constructive individuals
in a class than of their foolish wives, their spendthrift sons, their mistresses, and their
moments of irritation and folly.

In the making of very rich men there is always a factor of good fortune and a factor of design
and will. One meets rich men at times who seem to be merely lucky gamblers, who strike one
as just the thousandth man in a myriad of wild plungers, who are, in fact, chance nobodies
washed up by an eddy. Others, again, strike one as exceptionally lucky half-knaves. But there
are others of a growth more deliberate and of an altogether higher personal quality. One takes
such men as Mr. J.D. Rockefeller or Mr. Pierpont Morgan--the scale of their fortunes makes
them public property--and it is clear that we are dealing with persons on quite a different
level of intellectual power from the British Colonel Norths, for example, or the South African
Joels. In my "Future in America" I have taken the former largely at Miss Tarbell's estimate,
and treated him as a case of acquisitiveness raised in Baptist surroundings. But I doubt very
much if that exhausts the man as he is to-day. Given a man brought up to saving and "getting
on" as if to a religion, a man very acquisitive and very patient and restrained, and indubitably
with great organising power, and he grows rich beyond the dreams of avarice. And having done
so, there he is. What is he going to do? Every step he takes up the ascent to riches gives
him new perspectives and new points of view.

It may have appealed to the young Rockefeller, clerk in a Chicago house, that to be rich was
itself a supreme end; in the first flush of the discovery that he was immensely rich, he may
have thanked Heaven as if for a supreme good, and spoken to a Sunday school gathering as if
he knew himself for the most favoured of men. But all that happened twenty years ago or more.
One does not keep on in that sort of satisfaction; one settles down to the new facts. And such
men as Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Pierpont Morgan do not live in a made and protected world with
their minds trained, tamed and fed and shielded from outside impressions as royalties do. The
thought of the world has washed about them; they have read and listened to the discussion of
themselves for some decades; they have had sleepless nights of self-examination. To succeed
in acquiring enormous wealth does not solve the problem of life; indeed, it reopens it in a
new form. "What shall I do with myself?" simply recurs again. You may have decided to devote
yourself to getting on, getting wealthy. Well, you have got it. Now, again, comes the question:
"What shall I do?"

Mr. Pierpont Morgan, I am told, collected works of art. I can understand that satisfying a
rich gentleman of leisure, but not a man who has felt the sensation of holding great big things
in his great big hands. Saul, going out to seek his father's asses, found a kingdom--and became
very spiritedly a king, and it seems to me that these big industrial and financial organisers,
whatever in their youth they proposed to do or be, must many of them come to realise that their
organising power is up against no less a thing than a nation's future. Napoleon, it is curious
to remember once wanted to run a lodging-house, and a man may start to corner oil and end the
father of a civilisation.

Now, I am disposed to suspect at times that an inkling of such a realisation may have come
to some of these very rich men. I am inclined to put it among the possibilities of our time
that it may presently become clearly and definitely the inspiring idea of many of those who
find themselves predominantly rich. I do not see why these active rich should not develop statesmanship,
and I can quite imagine them developing very considerable statesmanship. Because these men
were able to realise their organising power in the absence of economic organisation, it does
not follow that they will be fanatical for a continuing looseness and freedom of property.
The phase of economic liberty ends itself, as Marx long ago pointed out. The American business
world becomes more and more a managed world with fewer and fewer wild possibilities of succeeding.
Of all people the big millionaires should realise this most acutely, and, in fact, there are
many signs that they do. It seems to me that the educational zeal of Mr. Andrew Carnegie and
the university and scientific endowments of Mr. Rockefeller are not merely showy benefactions;
they express a definite feeling of the present need of constructive organisation in the social
scheme. The time has come to build. There is, I think, good reason for expecting that statesmanship
of the millionaires to become more organised and scientific and comprehensive in the coming
years. It is plausible at least to maintain that the personal quality of the American plutocracy
has risen in the last three decades, has risen from the quality of a mere irresponsible wealthy
person towards that of a real aristocrat with a "sense of the State." That one may reckon the
first hopeful possibility in the American outlook.

And intimately connected with this development of an attitude of public responsibility in the
very rich is the decay on the one hand of the preposterous idea once prevalent in America that
politics is an unsuitable interest for a "gentleman," and on the other of the democratic jealousy
of any but poor politicians. In New York they talk very much of "gentlemen," and by "gentlemen"
they seem to mean rich men "in society" with a college education. Nowadays, "gentlemen" seem
more and more disposed towards politics, and less and less towards a life of business or detached
refinement. President Roosevelt, for example, was one of the pioneers in this new development,
this restoration of virility to the gentlemanly ideal. His career marks the appearance of a
new and better type of man in American politics, the close of the rule of the idealised nobody.

The prophecy has been made at times that the United States might develop a Caesarism, and certainly
the position of president might easily become that of an imperator. No doubt in the event of
an acute failure of the national system such a catastrophe might occur, but the more hopeful
and probable line of development is one in which a conscious and powerful, if informal, aristocracy
will play a large part. It may, indeed, never have any of the outward forms of an aristocracy
or any definite public recognition. The Americans are as chary of the coronet and the known
aristocratic titles as the Romans were of the word King. Octavius, for that reason, never called
himself king nor Italy a kingdom. He was just the Caesar of the Republic, and the Empire had
been established for many years before the Romans fully realised that they had returned to
monarchy.

Sec. 8

The American universities are closely connected in their development with the appearance and
growing class-consciousness of this aristocracy of wealth. The fathers of the country certainly
did postulate a need of universities, and in every state Congress set aside public lands to
furnish a university with material resources. Every State possesses a university, though in
many instances these institutions are in the last degree of feebleness. In the days of sincere
democracy the starvation of government and the dislike of all manifest inequalities involved
the starvation of higher education. Moreover, the entirely artificial nature of the State boundaries,
representing no necessary cleavages and traversed haphazard by the lines of communication,
made some of these State foundations unnecessary and others inadequate to a convergent demand.
From the very beginning, side by side with the State universities, were the universities founded
by benefactors; and with the evolution of new centres of population, new and extremely generous
plutocratic endowments appeared. The dominant universities of America to-day, the treasure
houses of intellectual prestige, are almost all of them of plutocratic origin, and even in
the State universities, if new resources are wanted to found new chairs, to supply funds for
research or publication or what not, it is to the more State-conscious wealthy and not to the
State legislature that the appeal is made almost as a matter of course. The common voter, the
small individualist has less constructive imagination--is more individualistic, that is, than
the big individualist.

This great network of universities that is now spread over the States, interchanging teachers,
literature and ideas, and educating not only the professions but a growing proportion of business
leaders and wealthy people, must necessarily take an important part in the reconstruction of
the American tradition that is now in progress. It is giving a large and increasing amount
of attention to the subjects that bear most directly upon the peculiar practical problems of
statecraft in America, to psychology, sociology and political science. It is influencing the
press more and more directly by supplying a rising proportion of journalists and creating an
atmosphere of criticism and suggestion. It is keeping itself on the one hand in touch with
the popular literature of public criticism in those new and curious organs of public thought,
the ten-cent magazines; and on the other it is making a constantly more solid basis of common
understanding upon which the newer generation of plutocrats may meet. That older sentimental
patriotism must be giving place under its influence to a more definite and effectual conception
of a collective purpose. It is to the moral and intellectual influence of sustained scientific
study in the universities, and a growing increase of the college-trained element in the population
that we must look if we are to look anywhere for the new progressive methods, for the substitution
of persistent, planned and calculated social development for the former conditions of systematic
neglect and corruption in public affairs varied by epileptic seizures of "Reform."

Sec. 9

A third influence that may also contribute very materially to the reconstruction of the American
tradition is the Socialist movement. It is true that so far American Socialism has very largely
taken an Anarchistic form, has been, in fact, little more than a revolutionary movement of
the wages-earning class against the property owner. It has already been pointed out that it
derives not from contemporary English Socialism but from the Marxist social democracy of the
continent of Europe, and has not even so much of the constructive spirit as has been developed
by the English Socialists of the Fabian and Labour Party group or by the newer German evolutionary
Socialists. Nevertheless, whenever Socialism is intelligently met by discussion or whenever
it draws near to practicable realisation, it becomes, by virtue of its inherent implications,
a constructive force, and there is no reason to suppose that it will not be intelligently met
on the whole and in the long run in America. The alternative to a developing Socialism among
the labouring masses in America is that revolutionary Anarchism from which it is slowly but
definitely marking itself off. In America we have to remember that we are dealing with a huge
population of people who are for the most part, and more and more evidently destined under
the present system of free industrial competition, to be either very small traders, small farmers
on the verge of debt, or wages-earners for all their lives. They are going to lead limited
lives and worried lives--and they know it. Nearly everyone can read and discuss now, the process
of concentrating property and the steady fixation of conditions that were once fluid and adventurous
goes on in the daylight visibly to everyone. And it has to be borne in mind also that these
people are so far under the sway of the American tradition that each thinks himself as good
as any man and as much entitled to the fullness of life. Whatever social tradition their fathers
had, whatever ideas of a place to be filled humbly and seriously and duties to be done, have
been left behind in Europe. No Church dominates the scenery of this new land, and offers in
authoritative and convincing tones consolations hereafter for lives obscurely but faithfully
lived. Whatever else happens in this national future, upon one point the patriotic American
may feel assured, and that is of an immense general discontent in the working class and of
a powerful movement in search of a general betterment. The practical forms and effects of that
movement will depend almost entirely upon the average standard of life among the workers and
their general education. Sweated and ill-organised foreigners, such as one finds in New Jersey
living under conditions of great misery, will be fierce, impatient and altogether dangerous.
They will be acutely exasperated by every picture of plutocratic luxury in their newspaper,
they will readily resort to destructive violence. The western miner, the western agriculturist,
worried beyond endurance between the money-lender and railway combinations will be almost equally
prone to savage methods of expression. The Appeal to Reason, for example, to which I have made
earlier reference in this chapter, is furious to wreck the present capitalistic system, but
it is far too angry and impatient for that satisfaction to produce any clear suggestion of
what shall replace it.

To call this discontent of the seething underside of the American system Socialism is a misnomer.
Were there no Socialism there would be just as much of this discontent, just the same insurgent
force and desire for violence, taking some other title and far more destructive methods. This
discontent is a part of the same planless confusion that gives on the other side the wanton
irresponsible extravagances of the smart people of New York. But Socialism alone, of all the
forms of expression adopted by the losers in the economic struggle, contains constructive possibilities
and leads its adherents towards that ideal of an organised State, planned and developed, from
which these terrible social stresses may be eliminated, which is also the ideal to which sociology
and the thoughts of every constructive-minded and foreseeing man in any position of life tend
to-day. In the Socialist hypothesis of collective ownership and administration as the social
basis, there is the germ of a "sense of the State" that may ultimately develop into comprehensive
conceptions of social order, conceptions upon which enlightened millionaires and unenlightened
workers may meet at last in generous and patriotic co-operation.

The chances of the American future, then, seem to range between two possibilities just as a
more or less constructive Socialism does or does not get hold of and inspire the working mass
of the population. In the worst event--given an emotional and empty hostility to property as
such, masquerading as Socialism--one has the prospect of a bitter and aimless class war between
the expropriated many and the property-holding few, a war not of general insurrection but of
localised outbreaks, strikes and brutal suppressions, a war rising to bloody conflicts and
sinking to coarsely corrupt political contests, in which one side may prevail in one locality
and one in another, and which may even develop into a chronic civil war in the less-settled
parts of the country or an irresistible movement for secession between west and east. That
is assuming the greatest imaginable vehemence and short-sighted selfishness and the least imaginable
intelligence on the part of both workers and the plutocrat-swayed government. But if the more
powerful and educated sections of the American community realise in time the immense moral
possibilities of the Socialist movement, if they will trouble to understand its good side instead
of emphasising its bad, if they will keep in touch with it and help in the development of a
constructive content to its propositions, then it seems to me that popular Socialism may count
as a third great factor in the making of the civilised American State.

In any case, it does not seem to me probable that there can be any national revolutionary movement
or any complete arrest in the development of an aristocratic phase in American history. The
area of the country is too great and the means of communication between the workers in different
parts inadequate for a concerted rising or even for effective political action in mass. In
the worst event--and it is only in the worst event that a great insurrectionary movement becomes
probable--the newspapers, magazines, telephones and telegraphs, all the apparatus of discussion
and popular appeal, the railways, arsenals, guns, flying machines, and all the material of
warfare, will be in the hands of the property owners, and the average of betrayal among the
leaders of a class, not racially homogeneous, embittered, suspicious united only by their discomforts
and not by any constructive intentions, will necessarily be high. So that, though the intensifying
trouble between labour and capital may mean immense social disorganisation and lawlessness,
though it may even supply the popular support in new attempts at secession, I do not see in
it the possibility and force for that new start which the revolutionary Socialists anticipate;
I see it merely as one of several forces making, on the whole and particularly in view of the
possible mediatory action of the universities, for construction and reconciliation.

Sec. 10

What changes are likely to occur in the more intimate social life of the people of the United
States? Two influences are at work that may modify this profoundly. One is that spread of knowledge
and that accompanying change in moral attitude which is more and more sterilising the once
prolific American home, and the second is the rising standard of feminine education. There
has arisen in this age a new consciousness in women. They are entering into the collective
thought to a degree unprecedented in the world's history, and with portents at once disquieting
and confused.

In Sec. 5 I enumerated what I called the silent factors in the American synthesis, the immigrant
European aliens, the Catholics, the coloured blood, and so forth. I would now observe that,
in the making of the American tradition, the women also have been to a large extent, and quite
remarkably, a silent factor. That tradition is not only fundamentally middle-class and English,
but it is also fundamentally masculine. The citizen is the man. The woman belongs to him. He
votes for her, works for her, does all the severer thinking for her. She is in the home behind
the shop or in the dairy at the farmhouse with her daughters. She gets the meal while the men
talk. The American imagination and American feeling centre largely upon the family and upon
"mother." American ideals are homely. The social unit is the home, and it is another and a
different set of influences and considerations that are never thought of at all when the home
sentiment is under discussion, that, indeed, it would be indelicate to mention at such a time,
which are making that social unit the home of one child or of no children at all.

That ideal of a man-owned, mother-revering home has been the prevalent American ideal from
the landing of the Mayflower right down to the leader writing of Mr. Arthur Brisbane. And it
is clear that a very considerable section among one's educated women contemporaries do not
mean to stand this ideal any longer. They do not want to be owned and cherished, and they do
not want to be revered. How far they represent their sex in this matter it is very hard to
say. In England in the professional and most intellectually active classes it is scarcely an
exaggeration to say that all the most able women below five-and-thirty are workers for the
suffrage and the ideal of equal and independent citizenship, and active critics of the conventions
under which women live to-day. It is at least plausible to suppose that a day is approaching
when the alternatives between celibacy or a life of economic dependence and physical subordination
to a man who has chosen her, and upon whose kindness her happiness depends, or prostitution,
will no longer be a satisfactory outlook for the great majority of women, and when, with a
newly aroused political consciousness, they will be prepared to exert themselves as a class
to modify this situation. It may be that this is incorrect, and that in devotion to an accepted
male and his children most women do still and will continue to find their greatest satisfaction
in life. But it is the writer's impression that so simple and single-hearted a devotion is
rare, and that, released from tradition--and education, reading and discussion do mean release
from tradition--women are as eager for initiative, freedom and experience as men. In that case
they will persist in the present agitation for political rights, and these secured, go on to
demand a very considerable reconstruction of our present social order.

It is interesting to point the direction in which this desire for independence will probably
take them. They will discover that the dependence of women at the present time is not so much
a law-made as an economic dependence due to the economic disadvantages their sex imposes upon
them. Maternity and the concomitants of maternity are the circumstances in their lives, exhausting
energy and earning nothing, that place them at a discount. From the stage when property ceased
to be chiefly the creation of feminine agricultural toil (the so-called primitive matriarchate)
to our present stage, women have had to depend upon a man's willingness to keep them, in order
to realise the organic purpose of their being. Whether conventionally equal or not, whether
voters or not, that necessity for dependence will still remain under our system of private
property and free independent competition. There is only one evident way by which women as
a class can escape from that dependence each upon an individual man and from all the practical
inferiority this dependence entails, and that is by so altering their status as to make maternity
and the upbringing of children a charge not upon the husband of the mother but upon the community.
The public Endowment of Maternity is the only route by which the mass of women can reach that
personal freedom and independent citizenship so many of them desire.

Now, this idea of the Endowment of Maternity--or as it is frequently phrased, the Endowment
of the Home--is at present put forward by the modern Socialists as an integral part of their
proposals, and it is interesting to note that there is this convergent possibility which may
bring the feminist movement at last altogether into line with constructive Socialism. Obviously,
before anything in the direction of family endowment becomes practicable, public bodies and
the State organisation will need to display far more integrity and efficiency than they do
in America at the present time. Still, that is the trend of things in all contemporary civilised
communities, and it is a trend that will find a powerful reinforcement in men's solicitudes
as the increasing failure of the unsupported private family to produce offspring adequate to
the needs of social development becomes more and more conspicuous. The impassioned appeals
of President Roosevelt have already brought home the race-suicide of the native-born to every
American intelligence, but mere rhetoric will not in itself suffice to make people, insecurely
employed and struggling to maintain a comfortable standard of life against great economic pressure,
prolific. Presented as a call to a particularly onerous and quite unpaid social duty the appeal
for unrestricted parentage fails. Husband and wife alike dread an excessive burthen. Travel,
leisure, freedom, comfort, property and increased ability for business competition are the
rewards of abstinence from parentage, and even the disapproval of President Roosevelt and the
pride of offspring are insufficient counterweights to these inducements. Large families disappear
from the States, and more and more couples are childless. Those who have children restrict
their number in order to afford those they have some reasonable advantage in life. This, in
the presence of the necessary knowledge, is as practically inevitable a consequence of individualist
competition and the old American tradition as the appearance of slums and a class of millionaires.

These facts go to the very root of the American problem. I have already pointed out that, in
spite of a colossal immigration, the population of the United States was at the end of the
nineteenth century over twenty millions short of what it should have been through its own native
increase had the birth-rate of the opening of the century been maintained. For a hundred years
America has been "fed" by Europe. That feeding process will not go on indefinitely. The immigration
came in waves as if reservoir after reservoir was tapped and exhausted. Nowadays England, Scotland,
Ireland, France and Scandinavia send hardly any more; they have no more to send. Germany and
Switzerland send only a few. The South European and Austrian supply is not as abundant as it
was. There may come a time when Europe and Western Asia will have no more surplus population
to send, when even Eastern Asia will have passed into a less fecund phase, and when America
will have to look to its own natural increase for the continued development of its resources.

If the present isolated family of private competition is still the social unit, it seems improbable
that there will be any greater natural increase than there is in France.

Will the growing idea of a closer social organisation have developed by that time to the possibility
of some collective effort in this matter? Or will that only come about after the population
of the world has passed through a phase of absolute recession? The peculiar constitution of
the United States gives a remarkable freedom of experiment in these matters to each individual
state, and local developments do not need to wait upon a national change of opinion; but, on
the other hand, the superficial impression of an English visitor is that any such profound
interference with domestic autonomy runs counter to all that Americans seem to hold dear at
the present time. These are, however, new ideas and new considerations that have still to be
brought adequately before the national consciousness, and it is quite impossible to calculate
how a population living under changing conditions and with a rising standard of education and
a developing feminine consciousness may not think and feel and behave in a generation's time.
At present for all political and collective action America is a democracy of untutored individualist
men who will neither tolerate such interference between themselves and the women they choose
to marry as the Endowment of Motherhood implies, nor view the "kids" who will at times occur
even in the best-regulated families as anything but rather embarrassing, rather amusing by-products
of the individual affections.

I find in the London New Age for August 15th, 1908, a description by Mr. Jerome K. Jerome of
"John Smith," the average British voter. John Smith might serve in some respects for the common
man of all the modern civilisations. Among other things that John Smith thinks and wants, he wants:

  "a little house and garden in the country all to himself.
  His idea is somewhere near half an acre of ground. He
  would like a piano in the best room; it has always been his
  dream to have a piano. The youngest girl, he is convinced,
  is musical. As a man who has knocked about the world
  and has thought, he quite appreciates the argument that
  by co-operation the material side of life can be greatly
  improved. He quite sees that by combining a dozen families
  together in one large house better practical results can be
  obtained. It is as easy to direct the cooking for a hundred
  as for half a dozen. There would be less waste of food, of
  coals, of lighting. To put aside one piano for one girl is
  absurd. He sees all this, but it does not alter one little
  bit his passionate craving for that small house and garden
  all to himself. He is built that way. He is typical of a
  good many other men and women built on the same pattern.
  What are you going to do with them? Change them--their
  instincts, their very nature, rooted in the centuries?
  Or, as an alternative, vary Socialism to fit John Smith?
  Which is likely to prove the shorter operation?"

That, however, is by the way. Here is the point at issue:

  "He has heard that Socialism proposes to acknowledge
  woman's service to the State by paying her a weekly wage
  according to the number of children that she bears and
  rears. I don't propose to repeat his objections to the idea;
  they could hardly be called objections. There is an ugly
  look comes into his eyes; something quite undefinable,
  prehistoric, almost dangerous, looks out of them.... In
  talking to him on this subject you do not seem to be
  talking to a man. It is as if you had come face to face
  with something behind civilisation, behind humanity, something
  deeper down still among the dim beginnings of
  creation...."

Now, no doubt Mr. Jerome is writing with emphasis here. But there is sufficient truth in the
passage for it to stand here as a rough symbol of another factor in this question. John Smithism,
that manly and individualist element in the citizen, stands over against and resists all the
forces of organisation that would subjugate it to a collective purpose. It is careless of coming
national cessation and depopulation, careless of the insurgent spirit beneath the acquiescences
of Mrs. Smith, careless of its own inevitable defeat in the economic struggle, careless because
it can understand none of these things; it is obstinately muddle-headed, asserting what it
conceives to be itself against the universe and all other John Smiths whatsoever. It is a factor
with all other factors. The creative, acquisitive, aggressive spirit of those bigger John Smiths
who succeed as against the myriads of John Smiths who fail, the wider horizons and more efficient
methods of the educated man, the awakening class-consciousness of women, the inevitable futility
of John Smithism, the sturdy independence that makes John Smith resent even disciplined co-operation
with Tom Brown to achieve a common end, his essential incapacity, indeed, for collective action;
all these things are against the ultimate triumph, and make for the ultimate civilisation even
of John Smith.

Sec. 11

It may be doubted if the increasing collective organisation of society to which the United
States of America, in common with all the rest of the world, seem to be tending will be to
any very large extent a national organisation. The constitution is an immense and complicated
barrier to effectual centralisation. There are many reasons for supposing the national government
will always remain a little ineffectual and detached from the full flow of American life, and
this notwithstanding the very great powers with which the President is endowed.

One of these reasons is certainly the peculiar accident that has placed the seat of government
upon the Potomac. To the thoughtful visitor to the United States this hiding away of the central
government in a minute district remote from all the great centres of thought, population and
business activity becomes more remarkable more perplexing, more suggestive of an incurable
weakness in the national government as he grasps more firmly the peculiarities of the American
situation.

I do not see how the central government of that great American nation of which I dream can
possibly be at Washington, and I do not see how the present central government can possibly
be transferred to any other centre. But to go to Washington, to see and talk to Washington,
is to receive an extraordinary impression of the utter isolation and hopelessness of Washington.
The National Government has an air of being marooned there. Or as though it had crept into
a corner to do something in the dark. One goes from the abounding movement and vitality of
the northern cities to this sunny and enervating place through the negligently cultivated country
of Virginia, and one discovers the slovenly, unfinished promise of a city, broad avenues lined
by negro shanties and patches of cultivation, great public buildings and an immense post office,
a lifeless museum, an inert university, a splendid desert library, a street of souvenir shops,
a certain industry of "seeing Washington," an idiotic colossal obelisk. It seems an ideal nest
for the tariff manipulator, a festering corner of delegates and agents and secondary people.
In the White House, in the time of President Roosevelt, the present writer found a transitory
glow of intellectual activity, the spittoons and glass screens that once made it like a London
gin palace had been removed, and the former orgies of handshaking reduced to a minimum. It
was, one felt, an accidental phase. The assassination of McKinley was an interruption of the
normal Washington process. To this place, out of the way of everywhere, come the senators and
congressmen, mostly leaving their families behind them in their states of origin, and hither,
too, are drawn a multitude of journalists and political agents and clerks, a crowd of underbred,
mediocre men. For most of them there is neither social nor intellectual life. The thought of
America is far away, centred now in New York; the business and economic development centres
upon New York; apart from the President, it is in New York that one meets the people who matter,
and the New York atmosphere that grows and develops ideas and purposes. New York is the natural
capital of the United States, and would need to be the capital of any highly organised national
system. Government from the district of Columbia is in itself the repudiation of any highly
organised national system.

But government from this ineffectual, inert place is only the most striking outcome of that
inflexible constitution the wrangling delegates of 1787-8 did at last produce out of a conflict
of State jealousies. They did their best to render centralisation or any coalescence of States
impossible and private property impregnable, and so far their work has proved extraordinarily
effective. Only a great access of intellectual and moral vigour in the nation can ever set
it aside. And while the more and more sterile millions of the United States grapple with the
legal and traditional difficulties that promise at last to arrest their development altogether,
the rest of the world will be moving on to new phases. An awakened Asia will be reorganising
its social and political conceptions in the light of modern knowledge and modern ideas, and
South America will be working out its destinies, perhaps in the form of a powerful confederation
of states. All Europe will be schooling its John Smiths to finer discipline and broader ideas.
It is quite possible that the American John Smiths may have little to brag about in the way
of national predominance by A.D. 2000. It is quite possible that the United States may be sitting
meekly at the feet of at present unanticipated teachers.

THE POSSIBLE COLLAPSE OF CIVILISATION

(New Year, 1909.)

The Editor of the New York World has asked me to guess the general trend of events in the next
thirty years or so with especial reference to the outlook for the State and City of New York.
I like and rarely refuse such cheerful invitations to prophesy. I have already made a sort
of forecast (in my "Anticipations") of what may happen if the social and economic process goes
on fairly smoothly for all that time, and shown a New York relieved from its present congestion
by the development of the means of communication, and growing and spreading in wide and splendid
suburbs towards Boston and Philadelphia. I made that forecast before ever I passed Sandy Hook,
but my recent visit only enhanced my sense of growth and "go" in things American. Still, we
are nowadays all too apt to think that growth is inevitable and progress in the nature of things;
the Wonderful Century, as Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace called the nineteenth, has made us perhaps
over-confident and forgetful of the ruins of great cities and confident prides of the past
that litter the world, and here I will write about the other alternative, of the progressive
process "hitting something," and smashing.

There are two chief things in modern life that impress me as dangerous and incalculable. The
first of these is the modern currency and financial system, and the second is the chance we
take of destructive war. Let me dwell first of all on the mysterious possibilities of the former,
and then point out one or two uneasy developments of the latter.

Now, there is nothing scientific about our currency and finance at all. It is a thing that
has grown up and elaborated itself out of very simple beginnings in the course of a century
or so. Three hundred years ago the edifice had hardly begun to rise from the ground, most property
was real, most people lived directly on the land, most business was on a cash basis, oversea
trade was a proportionately small affair, labour was locally fixed. Most of the world was at
the level at which much of China remains to-day--able to get along without even coinage. It
was a rudimentary world from the point of view of the modern financier and industrial organiser.
Well, on that rude, secure basis there has now been piled the most chancy and insecurely experimental
system of conventions and assumptions about money and credit it is possible to imagine. There
has grown up a vast system of lending and borrowing, a world-wide extension of joint-stock
enterprises that involve at last the most fantastic relationships. I find myself, for example,
owning (partially, at least) a bank in New Zealand, a railway in Cuba, another in Canada, several
in Brazil, an electric power plant in the City of Westminster, and so on, and I use these stocks
and shares as a sort of interest-bearing money. If I want money to spend, I sell a railway
share much as one might change a hundred-pound banknote; if I have more cash than I need immediately
I buy a few shares. I perceive that the value of these shares oscillates, sometimes rather
gravely, and that the value of the alleged money on the cheques I get also oscillates as compared
with the things I want to buy; that, indeed, the whole system (which has only existed for a
couple of centuries or so, and which keeps on getting higher and giddier) is perpetually swaying
and quivering and bending and sagging; but it is only when such a great crisis occurs as that
of 1907 that it enters my mind that possibly there is no limit to these oscillations, that
possibly the whole vast accidental edifice will presently come smashing down.

Why shouldn't it?

I defy any economist or financial expert to prove that it cannot. That it hasn't done so in
the little time for which it has existed is no reply at all. It is like arguing that a man
cannot die because he has never been known to do so. Previous men have died, previous civilisations
have collapsed, if not of acute, then of chronic financial disorders.

The experience of 1907 indicated very clearly how a collapse might occur. A panic, like an
avalanche, is a thing much easier to start than stop. Previous panics have been arrested by
good luck; this last one in America, for example, found Europe strong and prosperous and helpful.
In every panic period there is a huge dislocation of business enterprises, vast multitudes
of men are thrown out of employment, there is grave social and political disorder; but in the
end, so far, things have an air of having recovered. But now, suppose the panic wave a little
more universal--and panic waves tend to be more extensive than they used to be. Suppose that
when securities fall all round, and gold appreciates in New York, and frightened people begin
to sell investments and hoard gold, the same thing happens in other parts of the world. Increase
the scale of the trouble only two or three times, and would our system recover? Imagine great
masses of men coming out of employment, and angry and savage, in all our great towns; imagine
the railways working with reduced staffs on reduced salaries or blocked by strikers; imagine
provision dealers stopping consignments to retailers, and retailers hesitating to give credit.
A phase would arrive when the police and militia keeping order in the streets would find themselves
on short rations and without their weekly pay.

What we moderns, with our little three hundred years or so of security, do not recognise is
that things that go up and down may, given a certain combination of chances, go down steadily,
down and down.

What would you do, dear reader--what should I do--if a slump went on continually?

And that brings me to the second great danger to our modern civilisation, and that is War.
We have over-developed war. While we have left our peace organisation to the niggling, slow,
self-seeking methods of private enterprise; while we have left the breeding of our peoples
to chance, their minds to the halfpenny press and their wealth to the drug manufacturer, we
have pushed forward the art of war on severely scientific and Socialist lines; we have put
all the collective resources of the community and an enormous proportion of its intelligence
and invention ungrudgingly into the improvement and manufacture of the apparatus of destruction.
Great Britain, for example, is content with the railways and fireplaces and types of housing
she had fifty years ago; she still uses telephones and the electric light in the most tentative
spirit; but every ironclad she had five-and-twenty years ago is old iron now and abandoned.
Everything crawls forward but the science of war; that rushes on. Of what will happen if presently
the guns begin to go off I have no shadow of doubt. Every year has seen the disproportionate
increase until now. Every modern European state is more or less like a cranky, ill-built steamboat
in which some idiot has mounted and loaded a monstrous gun with no apparatus to damp its recoil.
Whether that gun hits or misses when it is fired, of one thing we may be absolutely certain--it
will send the steamboat to the bottom of the sea.

Modern warfare is an insanity, not a sane business proposition. Its preparation eats more and
more into the resources which should be furnishing a developing civilisation; its possibilities
of destruction are incalculable. A new epoch has opened with the coming of the navigable balloon
and the flying machine. To begin with, these things open new gulfs for expenditure; in the
end they mean possibilities of destruction beyond all precedent. Such things as the Zeppelin
and the Ville de Paris are only the first pigmy essays of the aeronaut. It is clear that to
be effective, capable of carrying guns and comparatively insensitive to perforation by shot
and shell, these things will have to be very much larger and as costly, perhaps, as a first-class
cruiser. Imagine such monsters of the air, and wild financial panic below!

Here, then, are two associated possibilities with which to modify our expectation of an America
advancing steadily on the road to an organised civilisation, of New York rebuilding herself
in marble, spreading like a garden city over New Jersey and Long Island and New York State,
becoming a new and greater Venice, queen of the earth.

Perhaps, after all, the twentieth century isn't going to be so prosperous as the nineteenth.
Perhaps, instead of going resistlessly onward, we are going to have a set-back. Perhaps we
are going to be put back to learn over again under simpler conditions some of those necessary
fundamental lessons our race has learnt as yet insufficiently well--honesty and brotherhood,
social collectivism, and the need of some common peace-preserving council for the whole world.

THE IDEAL CITIZEN

Our conceptions of what a good citizen should be are all at sixes and sevens. No two people
will be found to agree in every particular of such an ideal, and the extreme divergences upon
what is necessary, what is permissible, what is unforgivable in him, will span nearly the whole
range of human possibility and conduct. As a consequence, we bring up our children in a mist
of vague intimations, in a confusion of warring voices, perplexed as to what they must do,
uncertain as to what they may do, doomed to lives of compromise and fluctuating and inoperative
opinion. Ideals and suggestions come and go before their eyes like figures in a fog. The commonest
pattern, perhaps--the commonest pattern certainly in Sunday schools and edifying books, and
on all those places and occasions when morality is sought as an end--is a clean and able-bodied
person, truthful to the extent that he does not tell lies, temperate so far as abstinence is
concerned, honest without pedantry, and active in his own affairs, steadfastly law-abiding
and respectful to custom and usage, though aloof from the tumult of politics, brave but not
adventurous, punctual in some form of religious exercise, devoted to his wife and children,
and kind without extravagance to all men. Everyone feels that this is not enough, everyone
feels that something more is wanted and something different; most people are a little interested
in what that difference can be, and it is a business that much of what is more than trivial
in our art, our literature and our drama must do to fill in bit by bit and shade by shade the
subtle, the permanent detail of the answer.

It does very greatly help in this question to bear in mind the conflict of our origins. Every
age is an age of transition, of minglings, of the breaking up of old, narrow cultures, and
the breaking down of barriers, of spiritual and often of actual interbreeding. Not only is
the physical but the moral and intellectual ancestry of everyone more mixed than ever it was
before. We blend in our blood, everyone of us, and we blend in our ideas and purposes, craftsmen,
warriors, savages, peasants, and a score of races, and an endless multitude of social expedients
and rules. Go back but a hundred generations in the lineage of the most delicate girl you know,
and you will find a dozen murderers. You will find liars and cheats, lascivious sinners, women
who have sold themselves, slaves, imbeciles, devotees, saints, men of fantastic courage, discreet
and watchful persons, usurers, savages, criminals and kings, and every one of this miscellany,
not simply fathering or mothering on the way to her, but teaching urgently and with every grade
of intensity, views and habits for which they stand. Something of it all has come to her, albeit
much may seem forgotten. In every human birth, with a new little variation, a fresh slight
novelty of arrangement the old issues rise again. Our ideas, even more than our blood, flow
from multitudinous sources.

Certain groups of ideas come to us distinctively associated with certain marked ways of life.
Many, and for a majority of us, it may be, most of our ancestors were serfs or slaves. And
men and women who have had, generation after generation, to adapt themselves to slavery and
the rule of a master, develop an idea of goodness very different from that of princes. From
our slave ancestry, says Lester Ward, we learnt to work, and certainly it is from slavery we
derive the conception that industry, even though it be purposeless industry, is a virtue in
itself. The good slave, too, has a morality of restraints; he abstains from the food he handles
and hungers for, and he denies himself pride and initiative of every sort. He is honest in
not taking, but he is unscrupulous about adequate service. He makes no virtue of frankness,
but much of kindly helpfulness and charity to the weak. He has no sense of duty in planning
or economising. He is polite and soft-spoken, and disposed to irony rather than denunciation,
ready to admire cuteness and condone deception. Not so the rebel. That tradition is working
in us also. It has been the lot of vast masses of population in every age to be living in successful
or unsuccessful resistance to mastery, to be dreading oppression or to be just escaped from
it. Resentment becomes a virtue then, and any peace with the oppressor a crime. It is from
rebel origins so many of us get the idea that disrespectfulness is something of a duty and
obstinacy a fine thing. And under the force of this tradition we idealise the rugged and unmanageable,
we find something heroic in rough clothes and hands, in bad manners, insensitive behaviour,
and unsociableness. And a community of settlers, again, in a rough country, fighting for a
bare existence, makes a virtue of vehemence, of a hasty rapidity of execution. Hurried and
driven men glorify "push" and impatience, and despise finish and fine discriminations as weak
and demoralising things. These three, the Serf, the Rebel, and the Squatter, are three out
of a thousand types and aspects that have gone to our making. In the American composition they
are dominant. But all those thousand different standards and traditions are our material, each
with something fine, and each with something evil. They have all provided the atmosphere of
upbringing for men in the past. Out of them and out of unprecedented occasions, we in this
newer age, in which there are no slaves, in which every man is a citizen, in which the conveniences
of a great and growing civilisation makes the frantic avidity of the squatter a nuisance, have
to set ourselves to frame the standard of our children's children, to abandon what the slave
or the squatter or the rebel found necessary and that we find unnecessary, to fit fresh requirements
to our new needs. So we have to develop our figure of the fine man, our desirable citizen in
that great and noble civilised state we who have a "sense of the state" would build out of
the confusions of our world.

To describe that ideal modern citizen now is at best to make a guess and a suggestion of what
must be built in reality by the efforts of a thousand minds. But he will be a very different
creature from that indifferent, well-behaved business man who passes for a good citizen to-day.
He will be neither under the slave tradition nor a rebel nor a vehement elemental man. Essentially
he will be aristocratic, aristocratic not in the sense that he has slaves or class inferiors,
because probably he will have nothing of the sort, but aristocratic in the sense that he will
feel the State belongs to him and he to the State. He will probably be a public servant; at
any rate, he will be a man doing some work in the complicated machinery of the modern community
for a salary and not for speculative gain. Typically, he will be a professional man. I do not
think the ideal modern citizen can be a person living chiefly by buying for as little as he
can give and selling for as much as he can get; indeed, most of what we idolise to-day as business
enterprise I think he will regard with considerable contempt. But, then, I am a Socialist,
and look forward to the time when the economic machinery of the community will be a field not
for private enrichment but for public service.

He will be good to his wife and children as he will be good to his friend, but he will be no
partisan for wife and family against the common welfare. His solicitude will be for the welfare
of all the children of the community; he will have got beyond blind instinct; he will have
the intelligence to understand that almost any child in the world may have as large a share
as his own offspring in the parentage of his great-great-grandchildren His wife he will treat
as his equal; he will not be "kind" to her, but fair and frank and loving, as one equal should
be with another; he will no more have the impertinence to pet and pamper her, to keep painful
and laborious things out of her knowledge to "shield" her from the responsibility of political
and social work, than he will to make a Chinese toy of her and bind her feet. He and she will
love that they may enlarge and not limit one another.

Consciously and deliberately the ideal citizen will seek beauty in himself and in his way of
living. He will be temperate rather than harshly abstinent, and he will keep himself fit and
in training as an elementary duty. He will not be a fat or emaciated person. Fat, panting men,
and thin, enfeebled ones cannot possibly be considered good citizens any more than dirty or
verminous people. He will be just as fine and seemly in his person as he can be, not from vanity
and self-assertion but to be pleasing and agreeable to his fellows. The ugly dress and ugly
bearing of the "good man" of to-day will be as incomprehensible to him as the filth of a palaeolithic
savage is to us. He will not speak of his "frame," and hang clothes like sacks over it; he
will know and feel that he and the people about him have wonderful, delightful and beautiful
bodies.

And--I speak of the ideal common citizen--he will be a student and a philosopher. To understand
will be one of his necessary duties. His mind, like his body, will be fit and well clothed.
He will not be too busy to read and think, though he may be too busy to rush about to get ignorantly
and blatantly rich. It follows that, since he will have a mind exercised finely and flexible
and alert, he will not be a secretive man. Secretiveness and secret planning are vulgarity;
men and women need to be educated, and he will be educated out of these vices. He will be intensely
truthful, not simply in the vulgar sense of not misstating facts when pressed, but truthful
in the manner of the scientific man or the artist, and as scornful of concealment as they;
truthful, that is to say, as the expression of a ruling desire to have things made plain and
clear, because that so they are most beautiful and life is at its finest....

And all that I have written of him is equally true and applies word for word, with only such
changes of gender as are needed, to the woman citizen also.

SOME POSSIBLE DISCOVERIES

The present time is harvest home for the prophets. The happy speculator in future sits on the
piled-up wain, singing "I told you so," with the submarine and the flying machine and the Marconigram
and the North Pole successfully achieved. In the tumult of realisations it perhaps escapes
attention that the prophetic output of new hopes is by no means keeping pace with the crop
of consummations. The present trend of scientific development is not nearly so obvious as it
was a score of years ago; its promises lack the elementary breadth of that simpler time. Once
you have flown, you have flown. Once you have steamed about under water, you have steamed about
under water. There seem no more big things of that kind available--so that I almost regret
the precipitance of Commander Peary and Captain Amundsen. No one expects to go beyond that
atmosphere for some centuries at least; all the elements are now invaded. Conceivably man may
presently contrive some sort of earthworm apparatus, so that he could go through the rocks
prospecting very much as an earthworm goes through the soil, excavating in front and dumping
behind, but, to put it moderately, there are considerable difficulties. And I doubt the imaginative
effect. On the whole, I think material science has got samples now of all its crops at this
level, and that what lies before it in the coming years is chiefly to work them out in detail
and realise them on the larger scale. No doubt science will still yield all sorts of big surprising
effects, but nothing, I think, to equal the dramatic novelty, the demonstration of man having
got to something altogether new and strange, of Montgolfier, or the Wright Brothers, of Columbus,
or the Polar conquest. There remains, of course, the tapping of atomic energy, but I give two
hundred years yet before that....

So far, then, as mechanical science goes I am inclined to think the coming period will be,
from the point of view of the common man, almost without sensational interest. There will be
an immense amount of enrichment and filling-in, but of the sort that does not get prominently
into the daily papers. At every point there will be economies and simplifications of method,
discoveries of new artificial substances with new capabilities, and of new methods of utilising
power. There will be a progressive change in the apparatus and quality of human life--the sort
of alteration of the percentages that causes no intellectual shock. Electric heating, for example,
will become practicable in our houses, and then cheaper, and at last so cheap and good that
nobody will burn coal any more. Little electric contrivances will dispense with menial service
in more and more directions. The builder will introduce new, more convenient, healthier and
prettier substances, and the young architect will become increasingly the intelligent student
of novelty. The steam engine, the coal yard, and the tail chimney, and indeed all chimneys,
will vanish quietly from our urban landscape. The speeding up and cheapening of travel, and
the increase in its swiftness and comfort will go on steadily--widening experience. A more
systematic and understanding social science will be estimating the probable growth and movement
of population, and planning town and country on lines that would seem to-day almost inconceivably
wise and generous. All this means a quiet broadening and aeration and beautifying of life.
Utopian requirements, so far as the material side of things goes, will be executed and delivered
with at last the utmost promptness....

It is in quite other directions that the scientific achievements to astonish our children will
probably be achieved. Progress never appears to be uniform in human affairs. There are intricate
correlations between department and department. One field must mark time until another can
come up to it with results sufficiently arranged and conclusions sufficiently simplified for
application Medicine waits on organic chemistry, geology on mineralogy, and both on the chemistry
of high pressures and temperature. And subtle variations in method and the prevailing mental
temperament of the type of writer engaged, produce remarkable differences in the quality and
quantity of the stated result. Moreover, there are in the history of every scientific province
periods of seed-time, when there is great activity without immediate apparent fruition, and
periods, as, for example, the last two decades of electrical application, of prolific realisation.
It is highly probable that the physiologist and the organic chemist are working towards co-operations
that may make the physician's sphere the new scientific wonderland.

At present dietary and regimen are the happy hunting ground of the quack and that sort of volunteer
specialist, half-expert, half-impostor, who flourishes in the absence of worked out and definite
knowledge. The general mass of the medical profession, equipped with a little experience and
a muddled training, and preposterously impeded by the private adventure conditions under which
it lives, goes about pretending to the possession of precise knowledge which simply does not
exist in the world. Medical research is under-endowed and stupidly endowed, not for systematic
scientific inquiry so much as for the unscientific seeking of remedies for specific evils--for
cancer, consumption, and the like. Yet masked, misrepresented limited and hampered, the work
of establishing a sound science of vital processes in health and disease is probably going
on now, similar to the clarification of physics and chemistry that went on in the later part
of the eighteenth and the early years of the nineteenth centuries. It is not unreasonable to
suppose that medicine may presently arrive at far-reaching generalised convictions, and proceed
to take over this great hinterland of human interests which legitimately belongs to it.

But medicine is not the only field to which we may reasonably look for a sudden development
of wonders. Compared with the sciences of matter, psychology and social science have as yet
given the world remarkably little cause for amazement. Not only is our medicine feeble and
fragmentary, but our educational science is the poorest miscellany of aphorisms and dodges.
Indeed, directly one goes beyond the range of measurement and weighing and classification,
one finds a sort of unprogressive floundering going on, which throws the strongest doubts upon
the practical applicability of the current logical and metaphysical conceptions in those fields.
We have emerged only partially from the age of the schoolmen In these directions we have not
emerged at all. It is quite possible that in university lecture rooms and forbidding volumes
of metaphysical discussion a new emancipation of the human intellect and will is even now going
on. Presently men may be attacking the problems of the self-control of human life and of human
destiny in new phrases and an altogether novel spirit.

Guesses at the undiscovered must necessarily be vague, but my anticipations fall into two groups,
and first I am disposed to expect a great systematic increment in individual human power. We
probably have no suspicion as yet of what may be done with the human body and mind by way of
enhancing its effectiveness I remember talking to the late Sir Michael Foster upon the possibilities
of modern surgery, and how he confessed that he did not dare for his reputation's sake tell
ordinary people the things he believed would some day become matter-of-fact operations. In
that respect I think he spoke for very many of his colleagues. It is already possible to remove
almost any portion of the human body, including, if needful, large sections of the brain; it
is possible to graft living flesh on living flesh, make new connections, mould, displace, and
rearrange. It is also not impossible to provoke local hypertrophy, and not only by knife and
physical treatment but by the subtler methods of hypnotism, profound changes can be wrought
in the essential structure of a human being. If only our knowledge of function and value were
at all adequate, we could correct and develop ourselves in the most extraordinary way. Our
knowledge is not adequate, but it may not always remain inadequate.

We have already had some very astonishing suggestions in this direction from Doctor Metchnikoff.
He regards the human stomach and large intestine as not only vestigial and superfluous in the
human economy, but as positively dangerous on account of the harbour they afford for those
bacteria that accelerate the decay of age. He proposes that these viscera should be removed.
To a layman like myself this is an altogether astounding and horrifying idea, but Doctor Metchnikoff
is a man of the very greatest scientific reputation, and it does not give him any qualm of
horror or absurdity to advance it. I am quite sure that if a gentleman called upon me "done
up" in the way I am dimly suggesting, with most of the contents of his abdomen excavated, his
lungs and heart probably enlarged and improved, parts of his brain removed to eliminate harmful
tendencies and make room for the expansion of the remainder, his mind and sensibilities increased,
and his liability to fatigue and the need of sleep abolished, I should conceal with the utmost
difficulty my inexpressible disgust and terror. But, then, if M. Blériot, with his flying machine,
ear-flaps and goggles, had soared down in the year 54 B.C., let us say, upon my woad-adorned
ancestors--every family man in Britain was my ancestor in those days--at Dover, they would
have had entirely similar emotions. And at present I am not discussing what is beautiful in
humanity, but what is possible--and what, being possible, is likely to be attempted.

It does not follow that because men will some day have this enormous power over themselves,
physically and mentally, that they will necessarily make themselves horrible--even by our present
standards quite a lot of us would be all the slenderer and more active and graceful for "Metchnikoffing"--nor
does surgery exhaust the available methods. We are still in the barbaric age, so far as our
use of food and drugs is concerned. We stuff all sorts of substances into our unfortunate interiors
and blunder upon the most various consequences. Few people of three score and ten but have
spent in the aggregate the best part of a year in a state of indigestion, stupid, angry or
painful indigestion as the case may be. No one would be so careless and ignorant about the
fuel he burnt in his motor-car as most of us are about the fuel we burn in our bodies. And
there are all sort of stimulating and exhilarating things, digesting things, fatigue-suppressing
things, exercise economising things, we dare not use because we are afraid of our ignorance
of their precise working. There seems no reason to suppose that human life, properly understood
and controlled, could not be a constant succession of delightful and for the most part active
bodily and mental phases. It is sheer ignorance and bad management that keep the majority of
people in that disagreeable system of states which we indicate by saying we are "a bit off
colour" or a little "out of training." It may seem madly Utopian now to suggest that practically
everyone in the community might be clean, beautiful, incessantly active, "fit," and long-lived,
with the marks of all the surgery they have undergone quite healed and hidden, but not more
madly Utopian than it would have seemed to King Alfred the Great if one had said that practically
everyone in this country, down to the very swineherds, should be able to read and write.

Metchnikoff has speculated upon the possibility of delaying old age, and I do not see why his
method should not be applied to the diurnal need of sleep. No vital process seems to be absolutely
fated in itself; it is a thing conditioned and capable of modification. If Metchnikoff is right--and
to a certain extent he must be right--the decay of age is due to changing organic processes
that may be checked and delayed and modified by suitable food and regimen. He holds out hope
of a new phase in the human cycle, after the phase of struggle and passion, a phase of serene
intellectual activity, old age with all its experience and none of its infirmities. Still more
are fatigue and the need for repose dependent upon chemical changes in the body. It would seem
we are unable to maintain exertion, partly through the exhaustion of our tissues, but far more
by the loading of our blood with fatigue products--a recuperative interlude must ensue. But
there is no reason to suppose that the usual food of to-day is the most rapidly assimilable
nurture possible, that a rapidly digestible or injectable substance is not conceivable that
would vastly accelerate repair, nor that the elimination and neutralisation of fatigue products
might not also be enormously hastened. There is no inherent impossibility in the idea not only
of various glands being induced to function in a modified manner, but even in the insertion
upon the circulation of interceptors and artificial glandular structures. No doubt that may
strike even an adventurous surgeon as chimerical, but consider what people, even authoritative
people, were saying of flying and electric traction twenty years ago. At present a man probably
does not get more than three or four hours of maximum mental and physical efficiency in the
day. Few men can keep at their best in either physical or intellectual work for so long as
that. The rest of the time goes in feeding, digesting, sleeping, sitting about, relaxation
of various kinds. It is quite possible that science may set itself presently to extend systematically
that proportion of efficient time. The area of maximum efficiency may invade the periods now
demanded by digestion, sleep, exercise, so that at last nearly the whole of a man's twenty-four
hours will be concentrated on his primary interests instead of dispersed among these secondary
necessary matters.

Please understand I do not consider this concentration of activity and these vast "artificialisations"
of the human body as attractive or desirable things. At the first proposal much of this tampering
with the natural stuff of life will strike anyone, I think, as ugly and horrible, just as seeing
a little child, green-white and still under an anaesthetic, gripped my heart much more dreadfully
than the sight of the same child actively bawling with pain. But the business of this paper
is to discuss things that may happen, and not to evolve dreams of loveliness. Perhaps things
of this kind will be manageable without dreadfulness. Perhaps man will come to such wisdom
that neither the knife nor the drugs nor any of the powers which science thrusts into his hand
will slay the beauty of life for him. Suppose we assume that he is not such a fool as to let
that happen, and that ultimately he will emerge triumphant with all these powers utilised and
controlled.

It is not only that an amplifying science may give mankind happier bodies and far more active
and eventful lives, but that psychology and educational and social science, reinforcing literature
and working through literature and art, may dare to establish serenities in his soul. For surely
no one who has lived, no one who has watched sin and crime and punishment, but must have come
to realise the enormous amount of misbehaviour that is mere ignorance and want of mental scope.
For my own part I have never believed in the devil. And it may be a greater undertaking but
no more impossible to make ways to goodwill and a good heart in men than it is to tunnel mountains
and dyke back the sea. The way that led from the darkness of the cave to the electric light
is the way that will lead to light in the souls of men, that is to say, the way of free and
fearless thinking, free and fearless experiment, organised exchange of thoughts and results,
and patience and persistence and a sort of intellectual civility.

And with the development of philosophical and scientific method that will go on with this great
increase in man's control over himself, another issue that is now a mere pious aspiration above
abysses of ignorance and difficulty, will come to be a manageable matter. It has been the perpetual
wonder of philosophers from Plato onward that men have bred their dogs and horses and left
any man or woman, however vile, free to bear offspring in the next generation of men. Still
that goes on. Beautiful and wonderful people die childless and bury their treasure in the grave,
and we rest content with a system of matrimony that seems designed to perpetuate mediocrity.
A day will come when men will be in possession of knowledge and opportunity that will enable
them to master this position, and then certainly will it be assured that every generation shall
be born better than was the one before it. And with that the history of humanity will enter
upon a new phase, a phase which will be to our lives as daylight is to the dreaming of a child
as yet unborn.

THE HUMAN ADVENTURE

Alone among all the living things this globe has borne, man reckons with destiny. All other
living things obey the forces that created them; and when the mood of the power changes, submit
themselves passively to extinction Man only looks upon those forces in the face, anticipates
the exhaustion of Nature's kindliness, seeks weapons to defend himself. Last of the children
of Saturn, he escapes their general doom. He dispossesses his begetter of all possibility of
replacement, and grasps the sceptre of the world. Before man the great and prevalent creatures
followed one another processionally to extinction; the early monsters of the ancient seas,
the clumsy amphibians struggling breathless to the land, the reptiles, the theriomorpha and
the dinosaurs, the bat-winged reptiles of the Mesozoic forests, the colossal grotesque first
mammals, the giant sloths, the mastodons and mammoths; it is as if some idle dreamer moulded
them and broke them and cast them aside, until at last comes man and seizes the creative wrist
that would wipe him out of being again.

There is nothing else in all the world that so turns against the powers that have made it,
unless it be man's follower fire. But fire is witless; a little stream, a changing breeze can
stop it. Man circumvents. If fire were human it would build boats across the rivers and outmanoeuvre
the wind. It would lie in wait in sheltered places, smouldering, husbanding its fuel until
the grass was yellow and the forests sere. But fire is a mere creature of man's; our world
before his coming knew nothing of it in any of its habitable places, never saw it except in
the lightning flash or remotely on some volcanic coronet. Man brought it into the commerce
of life, a shining, resentful slave, to hound off the startled beasts from his sleeping-place
and serve him like a dog.

Suppose that some enduring intelligence watched through the ages the successions of life upon
this planet, marked the spreading first of this species and then that, the conflicts, the adaptations,
the predominances, the dyings away, and conceive how it would have witnessed this strange dramatic
emergence of a rare great ape to manhood. To such a mind the creature would have seemed at
first no more than one of several varieties of clambering frugivorous mammals, a little distinguished
by a disposition to help his clumsy walking with a stake and reinforce his fist with a stone.
The foreground of the picture would have been filled by the rhinoceros and mammoth, the great
herds of ruminants, the sabre-toothed lion and the big bears. Then presently the observer would
have noted a peculiar increasing handiness about the obscurer type, an unwonted intelligence
growing behind its eyes. He would have perceived a disposition in this creature no beast had
shown before, a disposition to make itself independent of the conditions of climate and the
chances of the seasons. Did shelter fail among the trees and rocks, this curious new thing-began
to make itself harbours of its own; was food irregular, it multiplied food. It began to spread
out from its original circumstances, fitting itself to novel needs, leaving the forests, invading
the plains, following the watercourses upward and downward, presently carrying the smoke of
its fires like a banner of conquest into wintry desolations and the high places of the earth.

The first onset of man must have been comparatively slow, the first advances needed long ages.
By small degrees it gathered pace. The stride from the scattered savagery of the earlier stone
period to the first cities, historically a vast interval, would have seemed to that still watcher,
measuring by the standards of astronomy and the rise and decline of races and genera and orders,
a, step almost abrupt. It took, perhaps, a thousand generations or so to make it. In that interval
man passed from an animal-like obedience to the climate and the weather and his own instincts,
from living in small family parties of a score or so over restricted areas of indulgent country,
to permanent settlements, to the life of tribal and national communities and the beginnings
of cities. He had spread in that fragment of time over great areas of the earth's surface,
and now he was adapting himself to the Arctic circle on the one hand and to the life of the
tropics on the other; he had invented the plough and the ship, and subjugated most of the domestic
animals; he was beginning to think of the origin of the world and the mysteries of being. Writing
had added its enduring records to oral tradition, and he was already making roads. Another
five or six hundred generations at most bring him to ourselves. We sweep into the field of
that looker-on, the momentary incarnations of this sempiternal being, Man. And after us there
comes--

A curtain falls.

The time in which we, whose minds meet here in this writing, were born and live and die, would
be to that imagined observer a mere instant's phase in the swarming liberation of our kind
from ancient imperatives. It would seem to him a phase of unprecedented swift change and expansion
and achievement. In this last handful of years, electricity has ceased to be a curious toy,
and now carries half mankind upon their daily journeys, it lights our cities till they outshine
the moon and stars, and reduces to our service a score of hitherto unsuspected metals; we clamber
to the pole of our globe, scale every mountain, soar into the air, learn how to overcome the
malaria that barred our white races from the tropics, and how to draw the sting from a hundred
such agents of death. Our old cities are being rebuilt in towering marble; great new cities
rise to vie with them. Never, it would seem, has man been so various and busy and persistent,
and there is no intimation of any check to the expansion of his energies.

And all this continually accelerated advance has come through the quickening and increase of
man's intelligence and its reinforcement through speech and writing. All this has come in spite
of fierce instincts that make him the most combatant and destructive of animals, and in spite
of the revenge Nature has attempted time after time for his rebellion against her routines,
in the form of strange diseases and nearly universal pestilences. All this has come as a necessary
consequence of the first obscure gleaming of deliberate thought and reason through the veil
of his animal being. To begin with, he did not know what he was doing. He sought his more immediate
satisfaction and safety and security. He still apprehends imperfectly the change that comes
upon him. The illusion of separation that makes animal life, that is to say, passionate competing
and breeding and dying, possible, the blinkers Nature has put upon us that we may clash against
and sharpen one another, still darken our eyes. We live not life as yet, but in millions of
separated lives, still unaware except in rare moods of illumination that we are more than those
fellow beasts of ours who drop off from the tree of life and perish alone. It is only in the
last three or four thousand years, and through weak and tentative methods of expression, through
clumsy cosmogonies and theologies, and with incalculable confusion and discoloration, that
the human mind has felt its way towards its undying being in the race. Man still goes to war
against himself, prepares fleets and armies and fortresses, like a sleep-walker who wounds
himself, like some infatuated barbarian who hacks his own limbs with a knife.

But he awakens. The nightmares of empire and racial conflict and war, the grotesques of trade
jealousy and tariffs, the primordial dream-stuff of lewdness and jealousy and cruelty, pale
before the daylight which filters between his eyelids. In a little while we individuals will
know ourselves surely for corpuscles in his being, for thoughts that come together out of strange
wanderings into the coherence of a waking mind. A few score generations ago all living things
were in our ancestry. A few score generations ahead, and all mankind will be in sober fact
descendants from our blood. In physical as in mental fact we separate persons, with all our
difference and individuality, are but fragments, set apart for a little while in order that
we may return to the general life again with fresh experiences and fresh acquirements, as bees
return with pollen and nourishment to the fellowship of the hive.

And this Man, this wonderful child of old earth, who is ourselves in the measure of our hearts
and minds, does but begin his adventure now. Through all time henceforth he does but begin
his adventure. This planet and its subjugation is but the dawn of his existence. In a little
while he will reach out to the other planets, and take that greater fire, the sun, into his
service. He will bring his solvent intelligence to bear upon the riddles of his individual
interaction, transmute jealousy and every passion, control his own increase, select and breed
for his embodiment a continually finer and stronger and wiser race. What none of us can think
or will, save in a disconnected partiality, he will think and will collectively. Already some
of us feel our merger with that greater life. There come moments when the thing shines out
upon our thoughts. Sometimes in the dark sleepless solitudes of night, one ceases to be so-and-so,
one ceases to bear a proper name, forgets one's quarrels and vanities, forgives and understands
one's enemies and oneself, as one forgives and understands the quarrels of little children,
knowing oneself indeed to be a being greater than one's personal accidents, knowing oneself
for Man on his planet, flying swiftly to unmeasured destinies through the starry stillnesses
of space.