These facts we will leave to our readers to draw their own inference from; but the very kind
reception which the Alpaca Umbrellas have hitherto received, justifies us in asserting, that
no material has yet been brought forward which has so thoroughly fulfilled the required conditions.
The weight of the Umbrella has also been diminished, and, last not least, the price has decreased
in a corresponding ratio. This latter fact is of the very greatest importance, when we remember
the immense quantity of Parasols and Umbrellas manufactured during the year in London, and
estimated at the enormous value of 500,000 Pounds. In addition, a very great number are made
in Manchester and Birmingham.

To those who wish to keep their Umbrellas safe and sound, we may commend the following extract
from Cassell's Household Guide:--

"Umbrellas are articles which generally suffer more from careless treatment than from legitimate
wear and tear; an Umbrella, when properly treated, will last twice as long as one that is not
so used. When wet, an Umbrella should neither be distended to dry, which will strain the ribs
and covering, and prevent its ever afterwards folding up neatly, nor at once rolled and tied
up, which would tend to rust the frame and rot the textile fabric; neither should it, if of
silk, be carelessly thrust into an Umbrella-stand, nor allowed to rest against a wall, which
would probably discolour, and certainly crease the silk injuriously. It should be shut, but
not tied up, and hung from the handle, with the point downwards, till it is nearly, but not
quite dry. It should then be neatly and carefully rolled up and tied. In walking with an Umbrella,
the hands should be confined to the handle, and not allowed to grasp the silk; otherwise that
portion which is held will become greased and discoloured, and the material will be frayed
out round the tips, which are points where there is always much stress, and where if will always
have a tendency to give way. When not in use, the Umbrella should be protected from dust and
injury of any kind by its silk or oilcloth case. When dirty, alpaca umbrellas are best cleaned
with a clothes-brush; but brushing is useless for those of silk. Ordinary dirt may be removed
from a silk umbrella by means of a clean sponge and cold water, or if the soil should be so
tenacious that this will not remove it, a piece of linen rag, dipped in spirits of wine or
unsweetened gin, will generally effect the desired end."

Having thus given our readers all the information on the subject in our power; even down to
the last quoted paragraph, which may teach them how to preserve their Umbrellas, we may wish
them a hearty farewell, hoping they may--long live to use these promoters of comfort and of
health, and that they may always be as well shielded by fate from the metaphorical tempests
of life, as they are from its physical storms by a good modern Umbrella.

FINIS