Walpole regarded these symptoms in the true epicurean spirit, and would have joined in the
sentiment, après moi le déluge. He was on the whole for remedying grievances, and is put rather
out of temper by cruelties which cannot be kept out of his sight. He talks with disgust of
the old habit of stringing up criminals by the dozen; he denounces the slave-trade with genuine
fervour; there is apparent sincerity in his platitudes against war; and he never took so active
a part in politics as in the endeavour to prevent the judicial murder of Byng. His conscience
generally discharged itself more easily by a few pungent epigrams, and though he wished the
reign of reason and humanity to dawn, he would rather that it should not come at all than be
ushered in by a tempest. His whole theory is given forcibly and compactly in an answer which
he once made to the republican Mrs. Macaulay, and was fond of repeating:--'Madam, if I had
been Luther, and could have known that for the chance of saving a million of souls I should
be the cause of a million of lives, at least, being sacrificed before my doctrines could be
established, it must have been a most palpable angel, and in a most heavenly livery, before
he should have set me at work.' We will not ask what angel would have induced him to make the
minor sacrifice of six thousand a year to establish any conceivable doctrine. Whatever may
be the merit of these opinions, they contain Walpole's whole theory of life. I know, he seems
to have said to himself, that loyalty is folly, that rank is contemptible, that the old society
in which I live is rotten to the core, and that explosive matter is accumulating beneath our
feet. Well! I am not made of the stuff for a reformer: I am a bit of a snob, though, like other
snobs, I despise both parties to the bargain. I will take the sinecures the gods provide me,
amuse myself with my toys at Strawberry Hill, despise kings and ministers, without endangering
my head by attacking them, and be over-polite to a royal duke when he visits me on condition
of laughing at him behind his back when he is gone. Walpole does not deserve a statue; he was
not a Wilberforce or a Howard, and as little of a Burke or a Chatham. But his faults, as well
as his virtues, qualified him to be the keenest of all observers of a society unconsciously
approaching a period of tremendous convulsions.

To claim for him that, even at his best, he is a profound observer of character, or that he
gives any consistent account of his greatest contemporaries, would be too much. He is full
of whims, and moreover, full of spite. He cannot be decently fair to anyone who deserted his
father, or stood in Conway's light. He reflects at all times the irreverent gossip current
behind the scenes. To know the best and the worst that can be said of any great man, the best
plan is to read the leading article of his party newspaper, and then to converse in private
with its writer. The eulogy and the sarcasm may both be sincere enough; only it is pleasant,
after puffing one's wares to the public, to glance at their seamy side in private. Walpole
has a decided taste for that last point of view. The littleness of the great, the hypocrisy
of the virtuous, and the selfishness of statesmen in general, is his ruling theme, illustrated
by an infinite variety of brilliant caricatures struck off at the moment with a quick eye and
a sure hand. Though he elaborates no grand historical portrait, like Burke or Clarendon, he
has a whole gallery of telling vignettes which are often as significant as far more pretentious
works. Nowhere, for example, can we find more graphic sketches of the great man who stands
a head and shoulders above the whole generation of dealers in power and place. Most of Chatham's
contemporaries repaid his contempt with intense dislike. Some of them pronounced him mad, and
others thought him a knave. Walpole, who at times calls him a mountebank and an impostor, does
not go further than Burke, who, in a curious comment, speaks of him as the 'grand artificer
of fraud,' who never conversed but with 'a parcel of low toad-eaters;' and asks whether all
this 'theatrical stuffing' and these 'raised heels' could be necessary to the character of
a great man. Walpole, of course, has a keen eye to the theatrical stuffing. He takes the least
complimentary view of the grand problem, which still puzzles some historians, as to the genuineness
of Chatham's gout. He smiles complacently when the great actor forgets that his right arm ought
to be lying helpless in a sling and flourishes it with his accustomed vigour. But Walpole,
in spite of his sneers and sarcasms, can recognise the genuine power of the man. He is the
describer of the striking scene which occurred when the House of Commons was giggling over
some delicious story of bribery and corruption--the House of Commons was frivolous in those
benighted days; he tells how Pitt suddenly stalked down from the gallery and administered his
thundering reproof; how Murray, then Attorney-General, 'crouched, silent and terrified,' and
the Chancellor of the Exchequer faltered out an humble apology for the unseemly levity. It
is Walpole who best describes the great debate when Pitt, 'haughty, defiant, conscious of injury
and supreme abilities,' burst out in that tremendous speech--tremendous if we may believe the
contemporary reports, of which the only tolerably preserved fragment is the celebrated metaphor
about the confluence of the Rhône and the Saône. Alas! Chatham's eloquence has all gone to
rags and tatters; though, to say the truth, it has only gone the way of nine-tenths of our
contemporary eloquence. We have, indeed, what are called accurate reports of spoken pamphlets,
dried specimens of rhetoric from which the life has departed as completely as it is strained
out of the specimens in a botanical collection. If there is no Walpole amongst us, we shall
know what our greatest living orator has said; but how he said it, and how it moved his audience,
will be as obscure as if the reporters' gallery were still unknown. Walpole--when he was not
affecting philosophy, or smarting from the failure of an intrigue, or worried by the gout,
or disappointed of a bargain at a sale--could throw electric flashes of light on the figure
he describes which reveal the true man. He errs from petulancy, but not from stupidity. He
can appreciate great qualities by fits, though he cannot be steadily loyal to their possessor.
And if he wrote down most of our rulers as knaves and fools, we have only to lower those epithets
to selfish and blundering, to get a very fair estimate of their characters. To the picturesque
historian his services are invaluable; though no single statement can be accepted without careful
correction.

Walpole's social, as distinguished from his political, anecdotes do in one sense what Leech's
drawings have done for this generation. But the keen old man of the world puts a far bitterer
and deeper meaning into his apparently superficial scratches than the kindly modern artist,
whose satire was narrowed, if purified, by the decencies of modern manners. Walpole reflects
in a thousand places that strange combination of brutality and polish which marked the little
circle of fine ladies and gentlemen who then constituted society, and played such queer pranks
in quiet unconsciousness of the revolutionary elements that were seething below. He is the
best of commentators on Hogarth, and gives us 'Gin Lane' on one side and the 'Marriage à la
mode' on the other. As we turn over the well-known pages we come at every turn upon characteristic
scenes of the great tragi-comedy that was being played out. In one page a highwayman puts a
bullet through his hat, and on the next we read how three thousand ladies and gentlemen visited
the criminal in his cell, on the Sunday before his execution, till he fainted away twice from
the heat; then we hear how Lord Lovat's buffooneries made the whole brilliant circle laugh
as he was being sentenced to death; and how Balmerino pleaded 'not guilty,' in order that the
ladies might not be deprived of their sport; how the House of Commons adjourned to see a play
acted by persons of quality, and the gallery was hung round with blue ribands; how the Gunnings
had a guard to protect them in the park; what strange pranks were played by the bigamous Miss
Chudleigh; what jokes--now, alas! very faded and dreary--were made by George Selwyn, and how
that amiable favourite of society went to Paris in order to see the cruel tortures inflicted
upon Damiens, and was introduced to the chief performer on the scaffold as a distinguished
amateur in executions. One of the best of all these vignettes portrays the funeral of George
II., and is a worthy pendant to Lord Hervey's classic account of the Queen's death. It opens
with the solemn procession to the torch-lighted Abbey, whose 'long-drawn aisles and fretted
vault' excite the imagination of the author of the 'Castle of Otranto.' Then the comic element
begins to intrude; the procession jostles and falls into disorder at the entrance of Henry
the Seventh's Chapel; the bearers stagger under the heavy coffin and cry for help; the bishop
blunders in the prayers, and the anthem, as fit, says Walpole, for a wedding as a funeral,
becomes immeasurably tedious. Against this tragi-comic background are relieved two characteristic
figures. The 'butcher' Duke of Cumberland, the hero of Culloden, stands with the obstinate
courage of his race gazing into the vault where his father is being buried, and into which
he is soon to descend. His face is distorted by a recent stroke of paralysis, and he is forced
to stand for two hours on a bad leg. Imagine the contrast of the two men, and remember that
the Duke of Newcastle was for an unprecedented time the great dispenser of patronage, and so
far the most important personage in the government. Walpole had reason for some of his sneers.

