Mackinnon was amused, and encouraged her, as, I must confess, did I also.  Mrs. Mackinnon made
useless little signs to her husband, really fearing that the Falernian would do its good offices
too thoroughly.  My wife, getting me apart as I walked round the circle distributing viands,
remarked that "the woman was a fool, and would disgrace herself."  But I observed that after
the disposal of that bumper she worshipped the rosy god in theory only, and therefore saw no
occasion to interfere.  "Come, Bacchus," she said; "and come, Silenus, if thou wilt; I know
that ye are hovering round the graves of your departed favourites.  And ye, too, nymphs of
Egeria," and she pointed to the classic grove which was all but close to us as we sat there.
"In olden days ye did not always despise the abodes of men.  But why should we invoke the presence
of the gods,--we, who can become godlike ourselves!  We ourselves are the deities of the present
age.  For us shall the tables be spread with ambrosia; for us shall the nectar flow."

Upon the whole it was very good fooling,--for awhile; and as soon as we were tired of it we
arose from our seats, and began to stroll about the place.  It was beginning to be a little
dusk, and somewhat cool, but the evening air was pleasant, and the ladies, putting on their
shawls, did not seem inclined at once to get into the carriages.  At any rate, Mrs. Talboys
was not so inclined, for she started down the hill towards the long low wall of the old Roman
circus at the bottom; and O'Brien, close at her elbow, started with her.

"Ida, my dear, you had better remain here," she said to her daughter; "you will be tired if
you come as far as we are going."

"Oh, no, mamma, I shall not," said Ida.  "You get tired much quicker than I do."

"Oh, yes, you will; besides I do not wish you to come."  There was an end of it for Ida, and
Mrs. Talboys and O'Brien walked off together, while we all looked into each other's faces.

"It would be a charity to go with them," said Mackinnon.

"Do you be charitable, then," said his wife.

"It should be a lady," said he.

"It is a pity that the mother of the spotless cherubim is not here for the occasion," said
she.  "I hardly think that any one less gifted will undertake such a self sacrifice."  Any
attempt of the kind would, however, now have been too late, for they were already at the bottom
of the hill.  O'Brien had certainly drunk freely of the pernicious contents of those long-necked
bottles; and though no one could fairly accuse him of being tipsy, nevertheless that which
might have made others drunk had made him bold, and he dared to do-- perhaps more than might
become a man.  If under any circumstances he could be fool enough to make an avowal of love
to Mrs. Talboys, he might be expected, as we all thought, to do it now.

We watched them as they made for a gap in the wall which led through into the large enclosed
space of the old circus.  It had been an arena for chariot games, and they had gone down with
the avowed purpose of searching where might have been the meta, and ascertaining how the drivers
could have turned when at their full speed.  For awhile we had heard their voices,--or rather
her voice especially.  "The heart of a man, O'Brien, should suffice for all emergencies," we
had heard her say.  She had assumed a strange habit of calling men by their simple names, as
men address each other. When she did this to Mackinnon, who was much older than herself, we
had been all amused by it, and, other ladies of our party had taken to call him "Mackinnon"
when Mrs. Talboys was not by; but we had felt the comedy to be less safe with O'Brien, especially
when, on one occasion, we heard him address her as Arabella.  She did not seem to be in any
way struck by his doing so, and we supposed, therefore, that it had become frequent between
them.  What reply he made at the moment about the heart of a man I do not know;--and then in
a few minutes they disappeared through the gap in the wall.

None of us followed them, though it would have seemed the most natural thing in the world to
do so had nothing out of the way been expected.  As it was we remained there round the tomb
quizzing the little foibles of our dear friend, and hoping that O'Brien would be quick in what
he was doing.  That he would undoubtedly get a slap in the face--metaphorically--we all felt
certain, for none of us doubted the rigid propriety of the lady's intentions.  Some of us strolled
into the buildings, and some of us got out on to the road; but we all of us were thinking that
O'Brien was very slow a considerable time before we saw Mrs. Talboys reappear through the gap.

At last, however, she was there, and we at once saw that she was alone.  She came on, breasting
the hill with quick steps, and when she drew near we could see that there was a frown as of
injured majesty on her brow.  Mackinnon and his wife went forward to meet her.  If she were
really in trouble it would be fitting in some way to assist her; and of all women Mrs. Mackinnon
was the last to see another woman suffer from ill-usage without attempting to aid her. "I certainly
never liked her," Mrs. Mackinnon said afterwards; "but I was bound to go and hear her tale,
when she really had a tale to tell."

And Mrs. Talboys now had a tale to tell,--if she chose to tell it. The ladies of our party
declared afterwards that she would have acted more wisely had she kept to herself both O'Brien's
words to her and her answer.  "She was well able to take care of herself," Mrs. Mackinnon said;
"and, after all, the silly man had taken an answer when he got it."  Not, however, that O'Brien
had taken his answer quite immediately, as far as I could understand from what we heard of
the matter afterwards.

At the present moment Mrs. Talboys came up the rising ground all alone, and at a quick pace.
"The man has insulted me," she said aloud, as well as her panting breath would allow her, and
as soon as she was near enough to Mrs. Mackinnon to speak to her.

"I am sorry for that," said Mrs. Mackinnon.  "I suppose he has taken a little too much wine."

"No; it was a premeditated insult.  The base-hearted churl has failed to understand the meaning
of true, honest sympathy."

"He will forget all about it when he is sober," said Mackinnon, meaning to comfort her.

"What care I what he remembers or what he forgets!" she said, turning upon poor Mackinnon indignantly.
"You men grovel so in your ideas--"  "And yet," as Mackinnon said afterwards, "she had been
telling me that I was a fool for the last three weeks."--"You men grovel so in your ideas,
that you cannot understand the feelings of a true-hearted woman.  What can his forgetfulness
or his remembrance be to me?  Must not I remember this insult?  Is it possible that I should
forget it?"

Mr. and Mrs. Mackinnon only had gone forward to meet her; but, nevertheless, she spoke so loud
that all heard her who were still clustered round the spot on which we had dined.

"What has become of Mr. O'Brien?" a lady whispered to me.

I had a field-glass with me, and, looking round, I saw his hat as he was walking inside the
walls of the circus in the direction towards the city.  "And very foolish he must feel," said
the lady.

"No doubt he is used to it," said another.

"But considering her age, you know," said the first, who might have been perhaps three years
younger than Mrs. Talboys, and who was not herself averse to the excitement of a moderate flirtation.
But then why should she have been averse, seeing that she had not as yet become subject to
the will of any imperial lord?

"He would have felt much more foolish," said the third, "if she had listened to what he said
to her."

