But I had some warrant for my incredulity in the behaviour of that court of young advocates
that hung about him in the hope of patronage. The sudden favour of a lad not previously heard
of troubled them at first out of measure; but two days were not gone by before I found myself
surrounded with flattery and attention. I was the same young man, and neither better nor bonnier,
that they had rejected a month before; and now there was no civility too fine for me! The same,
do I say? It was not so; and the byname by which I went behind my back confirmed it. Seeing
me so firm with the Advocate, and persuaded that I was to fly high and far, they had taken
a word from the golfing green, and called me the Tee'd Ball.[14] I was told I was now "one
of themselves"; I was to taste of their soft lining, who had already made my own experience
of the roughness of the outer husk; and the one, to whom I had been presented in Hope Park,
was so assured as even to remind me of that meeting. I told him I had not the pleasure of remembering
it.

"Why," says he, "it was Miss Grant herself presented me! My name is so-and-so."

"It may very well be, sir," said I, "but I have kept no mind of it."

At which he desisted; and in the midst of the disgust that commonly overflowed my spirits I
had a glisk of pleasure.

But I have not patience to dwell upon that time at length. When I was in company with these
young politics I was borne down with shame for myself and my own plain ways, and scorn for
them and their duplicity. Of the two evils, I thought Prestongrange to be the least; and while
I was always as stiff as buckram to the young bloods, I made rather a dissimulation of my hard
feelings towards the Advocate, and was (in old Mr. Campbell's word) "soople to the laird."
Himself commented on the difference, and bid me be more of my age, and make friends with my
young comrades.

I told him I was slow of making friends.

"I will take the word back," said he. "But there is such a thing as Fair gude e'en and fair
gude day, Mr. David. These are the same young men with whom you are to pass your days and get
through life: your backwardness has a look of arrogance; and unless you can assume a little
more lightness of manner, I fear you will meet difficulties in the path."

"It will be an ill job to make a silk purse of a sow's ear," said I.

On the morning of October 1st I was awakened by the clattering in of an express; and getting
to my window almost before he had dismounted, I saw the messenger had ridden hard. Somewhile
after I was called to Prestongrange, where he was sitting in his bedgown and nightcap, with
his letters around him.

"Mr. David," said he, "I have a piece of news for you. It concerns some friends of yours, of
whom I sometimes think you are a little ashamed, for you have never referred to their existence."

I suppose I blushed.

"I see you understand, since you make the answering signal," said he. "And I must compliment
you on your excellent taste in beauty. But do you know, Mr. David, this seems to me a very
enterprising lass? She crops up from every side. The Government of Scotland appears unable
to proceed for Mistress Katrine Drummond, which was somewhat the case (no great while back)
with a certain Mr. David Balfour. Should not these make a good match? Her first intromission
in politics--but I must not tell you that story, the authorities have decided you are to hear
it otherwise and from a livelier narrator. This new example is more serious, however; and I
am afraid I must alarm you with the intelligence that she is now in prison."

I cried out.

"Yes," said he, "the little lady is in prison. But I would not have you to despair. Unless
you (with your friends and memorials) shall procure my downfall, she is to suffer nothing."

"But what has she done? What is her offence?" I cried.

"It might be almost construed a high treason," he returned, "for she has broke the King's Castle
of Edinburgh."

"The lady is much my friend," I said. "I know you would not work me if the thing were serious."

"And yet it is serious in a sense," said he; "for this rogue of a Katrine--or Cateran, as we
may call her--has set adrift again upon the world that very doubtful character, her papa."

Here was one of my previsions justified: James More was once again at liberty. He had lent
his men to keep me a prisoner; he had volunteered his testimony in the Appin case, and the
same (no matter by what subterfuge) had been employed to influence the jury. Now came his reward,
and he was free. It might please the authorities to give to it the colour of an escape; but
I knew better--I knew it was the fulfilment of a bargain. The same course of thought relieved
me of the least alarm for Catriona. She might be thought to have broke prison for her father;
she might have believed so herself. But the chief hand in the whole business was that of Prestongrange;
and I was sure, so far from letting her come to punishment, he would not suffer her to be even
tried. Whereupon thus came out of me the not very politic ejaculation:

"Ah! I was expecting that!"

"You have at times a great deal of discretion too!" says Prestongrange.

"And what is my lord pleased to mean by that?" I asked.

"I was just marvelling," he replied, "that being so clever as to draw these inferences, you
should not be clever enough to keep them to yourself. But I think you would like to hear the
details of the affair. I have received two versions: and the least official is the more full
and far the more entertaining, being from the lively pen of my eldest daughter. 'Here is all
the town bizzing with a fine piece of work,' she writes, 'and what would make the thing more
noted (if it were only known) the malefactor is a protégée of his lordship my papa. I am sure
your heart is too much in your duty (if it were nothing else) to have forgotten Grey Eyes.
What does she do, but get a broad hat with the flaps open, a long hairy-like man's great-coat,
and a big gravatt; kilt her coats up to Gude kens whaur, clap two pair of boot-hose upon her
legs, take a pair of clouted brogues[15] in her hand, and off to the Castle? Here she gives
herself out to be a soutar[16] in the employ of James More, and gets admitted to his cell,
the lieutenant (who seems to have been full of pleasantry) making sport among his soldiers
of the soutar's great-coat. Presently they hear disputation and the sound of blows inside.
Out flies the cobbler, his coat flying, the flaps of his hat beat about his face, and the lieutenant
and his soldiers mock at him as he runs off. They laughed not so hearty the next time they
had occasion to visit the cell, and found nobody but a tall, pretty, grey-eyed lass in the
female habit! As for the cobbler, he was "over the hills ayont Dumblane," and it's thought
that poor Scotland will have to console herself without him. I drank Catriona's health this
night in public. Indeed, the whole town admires her; and I think the beaux would wear bits
of her garters in their button-holes if they could only get them. I would have gone to visit
her in prison too, only I remembered in time I was papa's daughter; so I wrote her a billet
instead, which I entrusted to the faithful Doig, and I hope you will admit I can be political
when I please. The same faithful gomeral is to despatch this letter by the express along with
those of the wiseacres, so that you may hear Tom Fool in company with Solomon. Talking of gomerals,
do tell Dauvit Balfour. I would I could see the face of him at the thought of a long-legged
lass in such a predicament! to say nothing of the levities of your affectionate daughter, and
his respectful friend.' So my rascal signs herself!" continued Prestongrange. "And you see,
Mr. David, it is quite true what I tell you, that my daughters regard you with the most affectionate
playfulness."

"The gomeral is much obliged," said I.

"And was not this prettily done?" he went on. "Is not this Highland maid a piece of a heroine?"

"I was always sure she had a great heart," said I. "And I wager she guessed nothing.... But
I beg your pardon, this is to tread upon forbidden subjects."

"I will go bail she did not," he returned, quite openly. "I will go bail she thought she was
flying straight into King George's face."

Remembrance of Catriona, and the thought of her lying in captivity, moved me strangely. I could
see that even Prestongrange admired, and could not withhold his lips from smiling when he considered
her behaviour. As for Miss Grant, for all her ill habit of mockery, her admiration shone out
plain. A kind of a heat came on me.

"I am not your lordship's daughter..." I began.

"That I know of!" he put in smiling.

"I speak like a fool," said I, "or rather I began wrong. It would doubtless be unwise in Mistress
Grant to go to her in prison; but for me, I think I would look like a half-hearted friend if
I did not fly there instantly."

"So-ho, Mr. David," says he, "I thought that you and I were in a bargain?"

"My lord," I said, "when I made that bargain I was a good deal affected by your goodness, but
I'll never can deny that I was moved besides by my own interest. There was self-seeking in
my heart, and I think shame of it now. It may be for your lordship's safety to say this fashious
Davie Balfour is your friend and housemate. Say it then; I'll never contradict you. But as
for your patronage, I give it all back. I ask but the one thing--let me go, and give me a pass
to see her in her prison."

He looked at me with a hard eye. "You put the cart before the horse, I think," says he. "That
which I had given was a portion of my liking, which your thankless nature does not seem to
have remarked. But for my patronage, it is not given, nor (to be exact) is it yet offered."
He paused a bit. "And I warn you, you do not know yourself," he added. "Youth is a hasty season;
you will think better of all this before a year."

"Well, and I would like to be that kind of youth!" I cried. "I have seen too much of the other
party, in these young advocates that fawn upon your lordship and are even at the pains to fawn
on me. And I have seen it in the old ones also. They are all for by-ends, the whole clan of
them! It's this that makes me seem to misdoubt your lordship's liking. Why would I think that
you would like me? But ye told me yourself ye had an interest!"

I stopped at this, confounded that I had run so far; he was observing me with a unfathomable face.

"My lord, I ask your pardon," I resumed. "I have nothing in my chafts but a rough country tongue.
I think it would be only decent-like if I would go to see my friend in her captivity; but I'm
owing you my life, I'll never forget that; and-if it's for your lordship's good, here I'll
stay. That's barely gratitude."

"This might have been reached in fewer words," says Prestongrange, grimly. "It is easy, and
it is at times gracious, to say a plain Scots 'ay'."

"Ah, but, my lord, I think ye take me not yet entirely!" cried I. "For your sake, for my life-safe,
and the kindness that ye say ye bear to me--for these, I'll consent; but not for any good that
might be coming to myself. If I stand aside when this young maid is in her trial, it's a thing
I will be noways advantaged by; I will lose by it, I will never gain. I would rather make a
shipwreck wholly than to build on that foundation."

He was a minute serious, then smiled. "You mind me of the man with the long nose," said he:
"was you to look at the moon by a telescope, you would see David Balfour there! But you shall
have your way of it. I will ask at you one service, and then set you free. My clerks are overdriven;
be so good as copy me these few pages," says he, visibly swithering among some huge rolls of
manuscripts, "and when that is done, I shall bid you God speed! I would never charge myself
with Mr. David's conscience; and if you could cast some part of it (as you went by) in a moss
hag, you would find yourself to ride much easier without it."

"Perhaps not just entirely in the same direction though, my lord!" says I.

"And you shall have the last word, too!" cries he gaily.

Indeed he had some cause for gaiety, having now found the means to gain his purpose. To lessen
the weight of the memorial, or to have a readier answer at his hand, he desired I should appear
publicly in the character of his intimate. But if I were to appear with the same publicity
as a visitor to Catriona in her prison the world would scarce stint to draw conclusions, and
the true nature of James More's escape must become evident to all. This was the little problem
I had set him of a sudden, and to which he had so briskly found an answer. I was to be tethered
in Glasgow by that job of copying, which in mere outward decency I could not well refuse; and
during these hours of my employment Catriona was privately got rid of. I think shame to write
of this man that loaded me with so many goodnesses. He was kind to me as any father, yet I
ever thought him as false as a cracked bell.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIX

I AM MUCH IN THE HANDS OF THE LADIES

The copying was a weary business, the more so as I perceived very early there was no sort of
urgency in the matters treated, and began very early to consider my employment a pretext. I
had no sooner finished, than I got to horse, used what remained of daylight to the best purpose,
and being at last fairly benighted, slept in a house by Almond-Water side. I was in the saddle
again before the day, and the Edinburgh booths were just opening when I clattered in by the
West Bow and drew up a smoking horse at my lord Advocate's door. I had a written word for Doig,
my lord's private hand that was thought to be in all his secrets, a worthy, little plain man,
all fat and snuff and self-sufficiency. Him I found already at his desk and already bedabbled
with maccabaw, in the same anteroom where I rencountered with James More. He read the note
scrupulously through like a chapter in his Bible.

"H'm," says he, "ye come a wee thing ahint-hand, Mr. Balfour. The bird's flaen, we hae letten
her out."

"Miss Drummond is set free?" I cried.

"Achy!" said he. "What would we keep her for, ye ken? To hae made a steer about the bairn would
hae pleased naebody."

"And where'll she be now?" says I.

"Gude kens!" says Doig, with a shrug.

"She'll have gone home to Lady Allardyce, I'm thinking," said I.

"That'll be it," said he.

"Then I'll gang there straight," says I.

"But ye'll be for a bite or ye go?" said he.

"Neither bite nor sup," said I. "I had a good waucht of milk in by Ratho."

"Aweel, aweel," says Doig. "But ye'll can leave your horse here and your bags, for it seems
we're to have your up-put."

"Na, na," said I. "Tamson's mear[17] would never be the thing for me, this day of all days."

Doig speaking somewhat broad, I had been led by imitation into an accent much more countrified
than I was usually careful to affect, a good deal broader indeed than I have written it down;
and I was the more ashamed when another voice joined in behind me with a scrap of a ballad:

    "Gae saddle me the bonny black,
      Gae saddle sune and mak' him ready,
    For I will down the Gatehope-slack,
      And a' to see my bonny leddy."

The young lady, when I turned to her, stood in a morning gown, and her hands muffled in the
same, as if to hold me at a distance. Yet I could not but think there was kindness in the eye
with which she saw me.

"My best respects to you, Mistress Grant," said I bowing.

"The like to yourself, Mr. David," she replied, with a deep courtesy, "And I beg to remind
you of an old musty saw, that meat and mass never hindered man. The mass I cannot afford you,
for we are all good Protestants. But the meat I press on your attention. And I would not wonder
but I could find something for your private ear that would be worth the stopping for."

"Mistress Grant," said I, "I believe I am already your debtor for some merry words--and I think
they were kind too--on a piece of unsigned paper."

"Unsigned paper?" says she, and made a droll face, which was likewise wondrous beautiful, as
of one trying to remember.

"Or else I am the more deceived," I went on. "But to be sure, we shall have the time to speak
of these, since your father is so good as to make me for a while your inmate; and the gomeral
begs you at this time only for the favour of his liberty."

"You give yourself hard names," said she.

"Mr. Doig and I would be blythe to take harder at your clever pen," says I.

"Once more I have to admire the discretion of all men-folk," she replied. "But if you will
not eat, off with you at once; you will be back the sooner, for you go on a fool's errand.
Off with you, Mr. David," she continued, opening the door.

    "He has lowpen on his bonny grey,
      He rade the richt gate and the ready;
    I trow he would neither stint nor stay,
      Far he was seeking his bonny leddy."

I did not wait to be twice bidden, and did justice to Miss Grant's citation on the way to Dean.

Old Lady Allardyce walked there alone in the garden, in her hat and mutch, and having a silver-mounted
staff of some black wood to lean upon. As I alighted from my horse, and drew near to her with
congees, I could see the blood come in her face, and her head fling into the air like what
I had conceived of empresses.

"What brings you to my poor door?" she cried, speaking high through her nose. "I cannot bar
it. The males of my house are dead and buried; I have neither son nor husband to stand in the
gate for me; any beggar can pluck me by the baird[18]--and a baird there is, and that's the
worst of it yet!" she added, partly to herself.

I was extremely put out at this reception, and the last remark, which seemed like a daft wife's,
left me near hand speechless.

"I see I have fallen under your displeasure, ma'am," said I. "Yet I will still be so bold as
ask after Mistress Drummond."

She considered me with a burning eye, her lips pressed close together into twenty creases,
her hand shaking on her staff. "This cows all!" she cried. "Ye come to me to spier for her!
Would God I knew!"

"She is not here?" I cried.

She threw up her chin and made a step and a cry at me, so that I fell back incontinent.

"Out upon your leeing throat!" she cried. "What! ye come and spier at me! She's in jyle, whaur
ye took her to--that's all there is to it. And of a' the beings ever I beheld in breeks, to
think it should be you! Ye timmer scoun'rel, if I had a male left to my name I would have your
jaicket dustit till ye raired."

I thought it not good to delay longer in that place because I remarked her passion to be rising.
As I turned to the horse-post she even followed me; and I make no shame to confess that I rode
away with the one stirrup on and scrambling for the other.

As I knew no other quarter where I could push my inquiries, there was nothing left me but to
return to the Advocate's. I was well received by the four ladies, who were now in company together,
and must give the news of Prestongrange and what word went in the west country, at the most
inordinate length and with great weariness to myself; while all the time that young lady, with
whom I so much desired to be alone again, observed me quizzically and seemed to find pleasure
in the sight of my impatience. At last, after I had endured a meal with them, and was come
very near the point of appealing for an interview before her aunt, she went and stood by the
music case, and picking out a tune, sang to it on a high key--"He that will not when he may,
When he will he shall have nay." But this was the end of her rigours, and presently, after
making some excuse of which I have no mind, she carried me away in private to her father's
library. I should not fail to say that she was dressed to the nines, and appeared extraordinary
handsome.

"Now, Mr. David, sit ye down here and let us have a two-handed crack," said she. "For I have
much to tell you, and it appears besides that I have been grossly unjust to your good taste."

"In what manner, Mistress Grant?" I asked. "I trust I have never seemed to fail in due respect."

"I will be your surety, Mr. David," said she. "Your respect, whether to yourself or your poor
neighbours, has been always and most fortunately beyond imitation. But that is by the question.
You got a note from me?" she asked.

"I was so bold as to suppose so upon inference," said I, "and it was kindly thought upon."

"It must have prodigiously surprised you," said she. "But let us begin with the beginning.
You have not perhaps forgot a day when you were so kind as to escort three very tedious misses
to Hope Park? I have the less cause to forget it myself, because you was so particular obliging
as to introduce me to some of the principles of the Latin grammar, a thing which wrote itself
profoundly on my gratitude."

"I fear I was sadly pedantical," said I, overcome with confusion at the memory. "You are only
to consider I am quite unused with the society of ladies."

"I will say the less about the grammar then," she replied. "But how came you to desert your
charge? 'He has thrown her out, overboard, his ain dear Annie!'" she hummed; "and his ain dear
Annie and her two sisters had to taigle home by theirselves like a string of green geese! It
seems you returned to my papa's, where you showed yourself excessively martial, and then on
to realms unknown, with an eye (it appears) to the Bass Rock; solan geese being perhaps more
to your mind than bonny lasses."

Through all this raillery there was something indulgent in the lady's eye which made me suppose
there might be better coming.

"You take a pleasure to torment me," said I, "and I make a very feckless plaything; but let
me ask you to be more merciful. At this time there is but the one thing that I care to hear
of, and that will be news of Catriona."

"Do you call her by that name to her face, Mr. Balfour?" she asked.

"In troth, and I am not very sure," I stammered.

"I would not do so in any case to strangers," said Miss Grant. "And why are you so much immersed
in the affairs of this young lady?"

"I heard she was in prison," said I.

"Well, and now you hear that she is out of it," she replied, "and what more would you have?
She has no need of any further champion."

"I may have the greater need of her, ma'am," said I.

"Come, this is better!" says Miss Grant. "But look me fairly in the face; am I not bonnier
than she?"

"I would be the last to be denying it," said I. "There is not your marrow in all Scotland."

"Well, here you have the pick of the two at your hand, and must needs speak of the other,"
said she. "This is never the way to please the ladies, Mr. Balfour."

"But, mistress," said I, "there are surely other things besides mere beauty."

"By which I am to understand that I am no better than I should be, perhaps?" she asked.

"By which you will please understand that I am like the cock in the midden in the fable book,"
said I. "I see the braw jewel--and I like fine to see it too--but I have more need of the pickle
corn."

"Bravissimo!" she cried. "There is a word well said at last, and I will reward you for it with
my story. That same night of your desertion I came late from a friend's house--where I was
excessively admired, whatever you may think of it--and what should I hear but that a lass in
a tartan screen desired to speak with me? She had been there an hour or better, said the servant-lass,
and she grat in to herself as she sat waiting. I went to her direct; she rose as I came in,
and I knew her at a look. 'Grey Eyes!' says I to myself, but was more wise than to let on.
You will be Miss Grant at last? she says, rising and looking at me hard and pitiful. Ay, it
was true he said, you are bonny at all events.--The way God made me, my dear, I said, but I
would be gey and obliged if ye could tell me what brought you here at such a time of the night--Lady,
she said, we are kinsfolk, we are both come of the blood of the sons of Alpin.--My dear, I
replied, I think no more of Alpin or his sons than what I do of a kale-stock. You have a better
argument in these tears upon your bonny face. And at that I was so weakminded as to kiss her,
which is what you would like to do dearly, and I wager will never find the courage of. I say
it was weakminded of me, for I knew no more of her than the outside; but it was the wisest
stroke I could have hit upon. She is a very staunch, brave nature, but I think she has been
little used with tenderness; and at that caress (though to say the truth, it was but lightly
given) her heart went out to me. I will never betray the secrets of my sex, Mr. Davie; I will
never tell you the way she turned me round her thumb, because it is the same she will use to
twist yourself. Ay, it is a fine lass! She is as clean as hill well water."

"She is e'en't!" I cried.

"Well, then, she told me her concerns," pursued Miss Grant, "and in what a swither she was
in about her papa, and what a taking about yourself, with very little cause, and in what a
perplexity she had found herself after you was gone away. And then I minded at long last, says
she, that we were kinswomen, and that Mr. David should have given you the name of the bonniest
of the bonny, and I was thinking to myself 'If she is so bonny she will be good at all events;
and I took up my foot soles out of that. That was when I forgave yourself, Mr. Davie. When
you was in my society, you seemed upon hot iron; by all marks, if ever I saw a young man that
wanted to be gone, it was yourself, and I and my two sisters were the ladies you were so desirous
to be gone from; and now it appeared you had given me some notice in the bygoing, and was so
kind as to comment on my attractions! From that hour you may date our friendship, and I began
to think with tenderness upon the Latin grammar."

"You will have many hours to rally me in," said I, "and I think besides you do yourself injustice,
I think it was Catriona turned your heart in my direction, she is too simple to perceive as
you do the stiffness of her friend."

"I would not like to wager upon that, Mr. David," said she. "The lasses have clear eyes. But
at least she is your friend entirely, as I was to see. I carried her in to his lordship my
papa; and his Advocacy, being in a favourable stage of claret, was so good as to receive the
pair of us. Here is Grey Eyes that you have been deaved with these days past, said I, she is
come to prove that we spoke true, and I lay the prettiest lass in the three Lothians at your
feet--making a papistical reservation of myself. She suited her action to my words; down she
went upon her knees to him--I would not like to swear but he saw two of her, which doubtless
made her appeal the more irresistible, for you are all a pack of Mahomedans--told him what
had passed that night, and how she had withheld her father's man from following of you, and
what a case she was in about her father, and what a flutter for yourself; and begged with weeping
for the lives of both of you (neither of which was in the slightest danger) till I vow I was
proud of my sex because it was done so pretty, and ashamed for it because of the smallness
of the occasion. She had not gone far, I assure you, before the Advocate was wholly sober,
to see his inmost politics ravelled out by a young lass and discovered to the most unruly of
his daughters. But we took him in hand, the pair of us, and brought that matter straight. Properly
managed--and that means managed by me--there is no one to compare with my papa."

"He has been a good man to me," said I.

"Well, he was a good man to Katrine, and I was there to see to it," said she.

"And she pled for me!" said I.

"She did that, and very movingly," said Miss Grant. "I would not like to tell you what she
said, I find you vain enough already."

"God reward her for it!" cried I.

"With Mr. David Balfour, I suppose?" says she.

"You do me too much injustice at the last!" I cried. "I would tremble to think of her in such
hard hands. Do you think I would presume, because she begged my life? She would do that for
a new whelped puppy! I have had more than that to set me up, if you but ken'd. She kissed that
hand of mine. Ay, but she did. And why? because she thought I was playing a brave part and
might be going to my death. It was not for my sake, but I need not be telling that to you that
cannot look at me without laughter. It was for the love of what she thought was bravery. I
believe there is none but me and poor Prince Charlie had that honour done them. Was this not
to make a god of me? and do you not think my heart would quake when I remember it?"

"I do laugh at you a good deal, and a good deal more than is quite civil," said she; "but I
will tell you one thing: if you speak to her like that, you have some glimmerings of a chance."

"Me?" I cried, "I would never dare. I can speak to you, Miss Grant, because it's a matter of
indifference what ye think of me. But her? no fear!" said I.

"I think you have the largest feet in all broad Scotland," says she.

"Troth, they are no very small," said I, looking down.

"Ah, poor Catriona!" cried Miss Grant.

And I could but stare upon her; for though I now see very well what she was driving at (and
perhaps some justification for the same), I was never swift at the uptake in such flimsy talk.

"Ah well, Mr. David," she said, "it goes sore against my conscience, but I see I shall have
to be your speaking board. She shall know you came to her straight upon the news of her imprisonment;
she shall know you would not pause to eat; and of your conversation she shall hear just so
much as I think convenient for a maid of her age and inexperience. Believe me, you will be
in that way much better served than you could serve yourself, for I will keep the big feet
out of the platter."

"You know where she is, then?" I exclaimed.

"That I do, Mr. David, and will never tell," said she.

"Why that?" I asked.

"Well," she said, "I am a good friend, as you will soon discover; and the chief of those that
I am a friend to is my papa. I assure you, you will never heat nor melt me out of that, so
you may spare me your sheep's eyes; and adieu to your David-Balfourship for the now."

"But there is yet one thing more," I cried. "There is one thing that must be stopped, being
mere ruin to herself, and to me too."

"Well," she said, "be brief, I have spent half the day on you already."

"My Lady Allardyce believes," I began, "she supposes--she thinks that I abducted her."

The colour came into Miss Grant's face, so that at first I was quite abashed to find her ear
so delicate, till I bethought me she was struggling rather with mirth, a notion in which I
was altogether confirmed by the shaking of her voice as she replied--

"I will take up the defence of your reputation," said she. "You may leave it in my hands."

And with that she withdrew out of the library.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XX

I CONTINUE TO MOVE IN GOOD SOCIETY

For about exactly two months I remained a guest in Prestongrange's family, where I bettered
my acquaintance with the bench, the bar, and the flower of Edinburgh company. You are not to
suppose my education was neglected, on the contrary I was kept extremely busy. I studied the
French, so as to be more prepared to go to Leyden; I set myself to the fencing, and wrought
hard, sometimes three hours in the day, with notable advancement; at the suggestion of my cousin,
Pilrig, who was an apt musician, I was put to a singing class, and by the orders of my Miss
Grant, to one for the dancing, at which. I must say I proved far from ornamental. However,
all were good enough to say it gave me an address a little more genteel; and there is no question
but I learned to manage my coat skirts and sword with more dexterity, and to stand in a room
as though the same belonged to me. My clothes themselves were all earnestly re-ordered; and
the most trifling circumstance, such as where I should tie my hair, or the colour of my ribbon,
debated among the three misses like a thing of weight. One way with another, no doubt I was
a good deal improved to look at, and acquired a bit of a modish air that would have surprised
the good folks at Essendean.

The two younger misses were very willing to discuss a point of my habiliment, because that
was in the line of their chief thoughts. I cannot say that they appeared any other way conscious
of my presence; and though always more than civil, with a kind of heartless cordiality, could
not hide how much I wearied them. As for the aunt, she was a wonderful still woman; and I think
she gave me much the same attention as she gave the rest of the family, which was little enough.
The eldest daughter and the Advocate himself were thus my principal friends, and our familiarity
was much increased by a pleasure that we took in common. Before the court met we spent a day
or two at the house of Grange, living very nobly with an open table, and here it was that we
three began to ride out together in the fields, a practice afterwards maintained in Edinburgh,
so far as the Advocate's continual affairs permitted. When we were put in a good frame by the
briskness of the exercise, the difficulties of the way, or the accidents of bad weather, my
shyness wore entirely off; we forgot that we were strangers, and speech not being required,
it flowed the more naturally on. Then it was that they had my story from me, bit by bit, from
the time that I left Essendean, with my voyage and battle in the Covenant, wanderings in the
heather, etc.; and from the interest they found in my adventures sprung the circumstance of
a jaunt we made a little later on, a day when the courts were not sitting, and of which I will
tell a trifle more at length.

We took horse early, and passed first by the house of Shaws, where it stood smokeless in a
great field of white frost, for it was yet early in the day. Here Prestongrange alighted down,
gave me his horse, and proceeded alone to visit my uncle. My heart, I remember, swelled up
bitter within me at the sight of that bare house and the thought of the old miser sitting chittering
within in the cold kitchen.

"There is my home," said I. "And my family."

"Poor David Balfour!" said Miss Grant.

What passed during the visit I have never heard; but it would doubtless not be very agreeable
to Ebenezer; for when the Advocate came forth again his face was dark.

"I think you will soon be the laird indeed, Mr. Davie," says he, turning half about with the
one foot in the stirrup.

"I will never pretend sorrow," said I; and, to say the truth, during his absence Miss Grant
and I had been embellishing the place in fancy with plantations, parterres, and a terrace,
much as I have since carried out in fact.

Thence we pushed to the Queensferry, where Rankeillor gave us a good welcome, being indeed
out of the body to receive so great a visitor. Here the Advocate was so unaffectedly good as
to go quite fully over my affairs, sitting perhaps two hours with the Writer in his study,
and expressing (I was told) a great esteem for myself and concern for my fortunes. To while
this time, Miss Grant and I and young Rankeillor took boat and passed the Hope to Limekilns.
Rankeillor made himself very ridiculous (and, I thought offensive) with his admiration for
the young lady, and to my wonder (only it is so common a weakness of her sex) she seemed, if
anything, to be a little gratified. One use it had: for when we were come to the other side,
she laid her commands on him to mind the boat, while she and I passed a little further to the
ale-house. This was her own thought, for she had been taken with my account of Alison Hastie,
and desired to see the lass herself. We found her once more alone--indeed, I believe her father
wrought all day in the fields--and she curtsied dutifully to the gentry-folk and the beautiful
young lady in the riding coat.

"Is this all the welcome I am to get?" said I, holding out my hand. "And have you no more memory
of old friends?"

"Keep me! wha's this of it?" she cried, and then, "God's truth, it's the tautit[19] laddie!"

"The very same," says I.

"Mony's the time I've thocht upon you and your freen, and blythe am I to see in your braws,"[20]
she cried. "Though I kent ye were come to your ain folk by the grand present that ye sent me
and that I thank ye for with a' my heart."

"There," said Miss Grant to me, "run out by with ye, like a good bairn. I didnae come here
to stand and hand a candle; it's her and me that are to crack."

I suppose she stayed ten minutes in the house, but when she came forth I observed two things--that
her eyes were reddened, and a silver brooch was gone out of her bosom. This very much affected me.

"I never saw you so well adorned," said I.

"O Davie man, dinna be a pompous gowk!" said she, and was more than usually sharp to me the
remainder of the day.

About candlelight we came home from this excursion.

For a good while I heard nothing further of Catriona: my Miss Grant remaining quite impenetrable,
and stopping my mouth with pleasantries. At last, one day that she returned from walking and
found me alone in the parlour over my French, I thought there was something unusual in her
looks; the colour heightened, the eyes sparkling high, and a bit of a smile continually bitten
in as she regarded me. She seemed indeed like the very spirit of mischief, and walking briskly
in the room, had soon involved me in a kind of quarrel over nothing and (at the least) with
nothing intended on my side. I was like Christian in the slough; the more I tried to clamber
out upon the side, the deeper I became involved; until at last I heard her declare, with a
great deal of passion, that she would take that answer at the hands of none, and I must down
upon my knees for pardon.

The causelessness of all this fuff stirred my own bile. "I have said nothing you can properly
object to," said I, "and as for my knees, that is an attitude I keep for God."

"And as a goddess I am to be served!" she cried, shaking her brown locks at me and with a bright
colour. "Every man that comes within waft of my petticoats shall use me so!"

"I will go so far as ask your pardon for the fashion's sake, although I vow I know not why,"
I replied. "But for these play-acting postures, you can go to others."

"O Davie!" she said. "Not if I was to beg you?"

I bethought me I was fighting with a woman, which is the same as to say a child, and that upon
a point entirely formal.

"I think it a bairnly thing," I said, "not worthy in you to ask, or me to render. Yet I will
not refuse you, neither," said I; "and the stain, if there be any, rests with yourself." And
at that I kneeled fairly down.

"There!" she cried. "There is the proper station, there is where I have been manoeuvring to
bring you." And then, suddenly, "Kep,"[21] said she, flung me a folded billet, and ran from
the apartment laughing.

The billet had neither place nor date. "Dear Mr. David," it began, "I get your news continually
by my cousin, Miss Grant, and it is a pleisand hearing. I am very well, in a good place, among
good folk, but necessitated to be quite private, though I am hoping that at long last we may
meet again. All your friendships have been told me by my loving cousin, who loves us both.
She bids me to send you this writing, and oversees the same. I will be asking you to do all
her commands, and rest your affectionate friend, Catriona Macgregor-Drummond. P.S.--Will you
not see my cousin, Allardyce?"

I think it not the least brave of my campaigns (as the soldiers say) that I should have done
as I was here bidden and gone forthright to the house by Dean. But the old lady was now entirely
changed and supple as a glove. By what means Miss Grant had brought this round I could never
guess; I am sure at least, she dared not to appear openly in the affair, for her papa was compromised
in it pretty deep. It was he, indeed, who had persuaded Catriona to leave, or rather, not to
return, to her cousin's, placing her instead with a family of Gregorys, decent people, quite
at the Advocate's disposition, and in whom she might have the more confidence because they
were of her own clan and family. These kept her private till all was ripe, heated and helped
her to attempt her father's rescue, and after she was discharged from prison received her again
into the same secrecy. Thus Prestongrange obtained and used his instrument; nor did there leak
out the smallest word of his acquaintance with the daughter of James More. There was some whispering,
of course, upon the escape of that discredited person; but the Government replied by a show
of rigour, one of the cell porters was flogged, the lieutenant of the guard (my poor friend,
Duncansby) was broken of his rank, and as for Catriona, all men were well enough pleased that
her fault should be passed by in silence.

I could never induce Miss Grant to carry back an answer. "No," she would say, when I persisted,
"I am going to keep the big feet out of the platter." This was the more hard to bear, as I
was aware she saw my little friend many times in the week, and carried her my news whenever
(as she said) I "had behaved myself." At last she treated me to what she called an indulgence,
and I thought rather more of a banter. She was certainly a strong, almost a violent friend,
to all she liked; chief among whom was a certain frail old gentlewoman, very blind, and very
witty, who dwelt in the top of a tall land on a strait close, with a nest of linnets in a cage,
and thronged all day with visitors. Miss Grant was very fond to carry me there and put me to
entertain her friend with the narrative of my misfortunes; and Miss Tibbie Ramsay (that was
her name) was particular kind, and told me a great deal that was worth knowledge of old folks
and past affairs in Scotland. I should say that from her chamber window, and not three feet
away, such is the straitness of that close, it was possible to look into a barred loophole
lighting the stairway of the opposite house.

Here, upon some pretext, Miss Grant left me one day alone with Miss Ramsay. I mind I thought
that lady inattentive and like one preoccupied. I was besides yery uncomfortable, for the window,
contrary to custom, was left open and the day was cold. All at once the voice of Miss Grant
sounded in my ears as from a distance.

"Here, Shaws!" she cried, "keek out of the window and see what I have broughten you."

I think it was the prettiest sight that ever I beheld; the well of the close was all in clear
shadow where a man could see distinctly, the walls very black and dingy; and there from the
barred loophole I saw two faces smiling across at me--Miss Grant's and Catriona's.

"There!" says Miss Grant, "I wanted her to see you in your braws like the lass of Limekilns.
I wanted her to see what I could make of you, when I buckled to the job in earnest!"

It came in my mind she had been more than common particular that day upon my dress: and I think
that some of the same care had been bestowed upon Catriona. For so merry and sensible a lady,
Miss Grant was certainly wonderful taken up with duds.

"Catriona!" was all I could get out.

As for her, she said nothing in the world, but only waved her hand and smiled to me, and was
suddenly carried away again from before the loophole.

The vision was no sooner lost than I ran to the house door, where I found I was locked in;
thence back to Miss Ramsay, crying for the key, but might as well have cried upon the castle
rock. She had passed her word, she said, and I must be a good lad. It was impossible to burst
the door, even if it had been mannerly; it was impossible I should leap from the window, being
seven storeys above ground. All I could do was to crane over the close and watch for their
reappearance from the stair. It was little to see, being no more than the tops of their two
heads each on a ridiculous bobbin of skirts, like to a pair of pincushions. Nor did Catriona
so much as look up for a farewell; being prevented (as I heard afterwards) by Miss Grant, who
told her folk were never seen to less advantage than from above downward.

On the way home, as soon as I was set free, I upbraided Miss Grant with her cruelty.

"I am sorry you was disappointed," says she demurely. "For my part I was very pleased. You
looked better than I dreaded; you looked--if it will not make you vain--a mighty pretty young
man when you appeared in the window. You are to remember that she could not see your feet,"
says she, with the manner of one reassuring me.

"O!" cried I, "leave my feet be, they are no bigger than my neighbor's."

"They are even smaller than some," said she, "but I speak in parables like a Hebrew prophet."

"I marvel little they were sometimes stoned!" says I. "But you miserable girl, how could you
do it? Why should you care to tantalise me with a moment?"

"Love is like folk," says she, "it needs some kind of vivers."[22]

"O, Barbara, let me see her properly!" I pleaded. "You can, you see her when you please; let
me have half an hour."

"Who is it that is managing this love affair? You? Or me?" she asked, and as I continued to
press her with my instances, fell back upon a deadly expedient: that of imitating the tones
of my voice when I called on Catriona by name; with which, indeed, she held me in subjection
for some days to follow.

There was never the least word heard of the memorial, or none by me. Prestongrange and his
grace the Lord President may have heard of it (for what I know) on the deafest sides of their
heads; they kept it to themselves, at least; the public was none the wiser; and in course of
time, on November 8th, and in the midst of a prodigious storm of wind and rain, poor James
of the Glens was duly hanged at Lettermore by Balachulish.

So there was the final upshot of my politics! Innocent men have perished before James, and
are like to keep on perishing (in spite of all our wisdom) till the end of time. And till the
end of time, young folk (who are not yet used with the duplicity of life and men) will struggle
as I did, and make heroical resolves, and take long risks; and the course of events will push
them upon the one side and go on like a marching army. James was hanged; and here was I dwelling
in the house of Prestongrange, and grateful to him for his fatherly attention. He was hanged;
and behold! When I met Mr. Symon in the causeway, I was fain to pull off my beaver to him like
a good little boy before his dominie. He had been hanged by fraud and violence, and the world
wagged along, and there was not a pennyweight of difference; and the villains of that horrid
plot were decent, kind, respectable fathers of families, who went to kirk and took the sacrament!

But I had had my view of that detestable business they call politics--I had seen it from behind,
when it is all bones and blackness; and I was cured for life of any temptations to take part
in it again. A plain, quiet, private path was that which I was ambitious to walk in, when I
might keep my head out of the way of dangers and my conscience out of the road of temptation.
For, upon a retrospect, it appeared I had not done so grandly, after all; but with the greatest
possible amount of big speech and preparation, had accomplished nothing.

The 25th of the same month, a ship was advertised to sail from Leith; and I was suddenly recommended
to make up my mails for Leyden. To Prestongrange I could, of course, say nothing; for I had
already been a long while sorning on his house and table. But with his daughter I was more
open, bewailing my fate that I should be sent out of the country, and assuring her, unless
she should bring me to farewell with Catriona, I would refuse at the last hour.

"Have I not given you my advice?" she asked.

"I know you have," said I, "and I know how much I am beholden to you already, and that I am
bidden to obey your orders. But you must confess you are something too merry a lass at times
to lippen[23] to entirely."

"I will tell you, then," said she. "Be you on board at nine o'clock forenoon; the ship does
not sail before one; keep your boat alongside; and if you are not pleased with my farewells
when I shall send them, you can come ashore again and seek Katrine for yourself."

Since I could make no more of her, I was fain to be content with this.

The day came round at last when she and I were to separate. We had been extremely intimate
and familiar; I was much in her debt; and what way we were to part was a thing that put me
from my sleep, like the vails I was to give to the domestic servants. I knew she considered
me too backward, and rather desired to rise in her opinion on that head. Besides which, after
so much affection shown and (I believe) felt upon both sides, it would have looked cold-like
to be anyways stiff. Accordingly, I got my courage up and my words ready, and the last chance
we were like to be alone, asked pretty boldly to be allowed to salute her in farewell.

"You forget yourself strangely, Mr. Balfour," said she. "I cannot call to mind that I had given
you any right to presume on our acquaintancy."

I stood before her like a stopped clock, and knew not what to think, far less to say, when
of a sudden she cast her arms about my neck and kissed me with the best will in the world.

"You inimitable bairn!" she cried. "Did you think that I would let us part like strangers?
Because I can never keep my gravity at you five minutes on end, you must not dream I do not
love you very well; I am all love and laughter, every time I cast an eye on you! And now I
will give you an advice to conclude your education, which you will have need of before its
very long. It's supposed by divines to be the curse of Eve; because she did not say it when
the devil offered her the apple, her daughters can say nothing else."

"Since I am so soon to lose my bonny professor," I began.

"This is gallant, indeed," says she curtseying.

"--I would put the one question," I went on; "May I ask a lass to marry me?"

"You think you could not marry her without?" she asked. "Or else get her to offer?"

"You see you cannot be serious," said I.

"I shall be very serious in one thing, David," said she. "I shall always be your friend."

As I got to my horse the next morning, the four ladies were all at the same window whence we
had once looked down on Catriona, and all cried farewell and waved their pocket napkins as
I rode away; one out of the four I knew was truly sorry; and at the thought of that, and how
I had come to the door three months ago for the first time, sorrow and gratitude made a confusion
in my mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

PART II

FATHER AND DAUGHTER

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXI

THE VOYAGE INTO HOLLAND

The ship lay at a single anchor, well outside the pier of Leith, so that all we passengers
must come to it by the means of skiffs. This was very little troublesome, for the reason that
the day was a flat calm, very frosty and cloudy, and with a low shifting fog upon the water.
The body of the vessel was thus quite hid as I drew near, but the tall spars of her stood high
and bright in a sunshine like the flickering of a fire. She proved to be a very roomy, commodious
merchant, but somewhat blunt in the bows, and loaden extraordinary deep with salt, salted salmon,
and fine white linen stockings for the Dutch. Upon my coming on board, the captain welcomed
me, one Sang (out of Lesmahago, I believe), a very hearty, friendly tarpauling of a man, but
at the moment in rather of a bustle. There had no other of the passengers yet appeared, so
that I was left to walk about upon the deck, viewing the prospect and wondering a good deal
what these farewells should be which I was promised.

All Edinburgh and the Pentland Hills glinted above me in a kind of smuisty brightness, now
and again overcome with blots of cloud; of Leith there was no more than the tops of chimneys
visible, and on the face of the water, where the haar[24] lay, nothing at all. Out of this
I was presently aware of a sound of oars pulling, and a little after (as if out of the smoke
of a fire) a boat issued. There sat a grave man in the stern sheets, well muffled from the
cold, and by his side a tall, pretty, tender figure of a maid that brought my heart to a stand.
I had scarce the time to catch my breath in, and be ready to meet her, as she stepped upon
the deck, smiling, and making my best bow, which was now vastly finer than some months before
when I first made it to her ladyship. No doubt we were both a good deal changed; she seemed
to have shot up taller, like a young, comely tree. She had now a kind of pretty backwardness
that became her well, as of one that regarded herself more highly and was fairly woman; and
for another thing, the hand of the same magician had been at work upon the pair of us, and
Miss Grant had made us both braw, if she could make but the one bonny.

The same cry, in words not very different, came from both of us, that the other was come in
compliment to say farewell, and then we perceived in a flash we were to ship together.

"O, why will not Baby have been telling me!" she cried; and then remembered a letter she had
been given, on the condition of not opening it till she was well on board. Within was an enclosure
for myself, and ran thus:

     "DEAR DAVIE,--What do you think of my farewell? and what
     do you say to your fellow-passenger? Did you kiss, or did you
     ask? I was about to have signed here, but that would leave the
     purport of my question doubtful; and in my own case I ken the
     answer. So fill up here with good advice. Do not be too
     blate,[25]
     and for God's sake do not try to be too forward; nothing sets
     you
     worse. I am

     "Your affectionate friend and governess,

     "BARBARA GRANT."

I wrote a word of answer and compliment on a leaf out of my pocketbook, put it in with another
scratch from Catriona, sealed the whole with my new signet of the Balfour arms, and despatched
it by the hand of Prestongrange's servant that still waited in my boat.

Then we had time to look upon each other more at leisure, which we had not done for a piece
of a minute before (upon a common impulse) we shook hands again.

"Catriona!" said I; it seemed that was the first and last word of my eloquence.

"You will be glad to see me again?" says she.

"And I think that is an idle word," said I. "We are too deep friends to make speech upon such
trifles."

"Is she not the girl of all the world?" she cried again. "I was never knowing such a girl,
so honest and so beautiful."

"And yet she cared no more for Alpin than what she did for a kale-stock," said I.

"Ah, she will say so indeed!" cries Catriona. "Yet it was for the name and the gentle kind
blood that she took me up and was so good to me."

"Well, I will tell you why it was," said I. "There are all sorts of people's faces in this
world. There is Barbara's face, that everyone must look at and admire, and think her a fine,
brave, merry girl. And then there is your face, which is quite different, I never knew how
different till to-day. You cannot see yourself, and that is why you do not understand; but
it was for the love of your face that she took you up and was so good to you. And everybody
in the world would do the same."

"Everybody?" says she.

"Every living soul!" said I.

"Ah, then, that will be why the soldiers at the castle took me up!" she cried.

"Barbara has been teaching you to catch me," said I.

"She will have taught me more than that at all events. She will have taught me a great deal
about Mr. David--all the ill of him, and a little that was not so ill either now and then,"
she said, smiling. "She will have told me all there was of Mr. David, only just that he would
sail upon this very same ship. And why is it you go?"

I told her.

"Ah, well," said she, "we will be some days in company and then (I suppose) good-bye for altogether!
I go to meet my father at a place of the name of Helvoetsluys, and from there to France, to
be exiles by the side of our chieftain."

I could say no more than just "O!" the name of James More always drying up my very voice.

She was quick to perceive it, and to guess some portion of my thought.

"There is one thing I must be saying first of all, Mr. David," said she. "I think two of my
kinsfolk have not behaved to you altogether very well. And the one of them two is James More,
my father, and the other is the Laird of Prestongrange. Prestongrange will have spoken by himself,
or his daughter in the place of him. But for James More, my father, I have this much to say:
he lay shackled in a prison; he is a plain honest soldier and a plain Highland gentleman; what
they would be after, he never would be guessing; but if he had understood it was to be some
prejudice to a young gentleman like yourself, he would have died first. And for the sake of
all your friendships, I will be asking you to pardon my father and family for that same mistake."

"Catriona," said I, "what that mistake was I do not care to know. I know but the one thing,
that you went to Prestongrange and begged my life upon your knees. O, I ken well it was for
your father that you went, but when you were there you pleaded for me also. It is a thing I
cannot speak of. There are two things I cannot think of in to myself; and the one is your good
words when you called yourself my little friend, and the other that you pleaded for my life.
Let us never speak more, we two, of pardon or offence."

We stood after that silent, Catriona looking on the deck and I on her; and before there was
more speech, a little wind having sprung up, in the nor'-west, they began to shake out the
sails and heave in upon the anchor.

There were six passengers besides our two selves, which made of it a full cabin. Three were
solid merchants out of Leith, Kirkaldy, and Dundee, all engaged in the same adventure into
High Germany; one was a Hollander returning; the rest worthy merchants' wives, to the charge
of one of whom Catriona was recommended. Mrs. Grebbie (for that was her name) was by great
good fortune heavily incommoded by the sea, and lay day and night on the broad of her back.
We were besides the only creatures at all young on board the Rose, except a white-faced boy
that did my old duty to attend upon the table; and it came about that Catriona and I were left
almost entirely to ourselves. We had the next seats together at the table, where I waited on
her with extraordinary pleasure. On deck, I made her a soft place with my cloak; and the weather
being singularly fine for that season, with bright frosty days and nights, a steady, gentle
wind, and scarce a sheet started all the way through the North Sea, we sat there (only now
and again walking to and fro for warmth) from the first blink of the sun till eight or nine
at night under the clear stars. The merchants or Captain Sang would sometimes glance and smile
upon us, or pass a merry word or two and give us the go-by again; but the most part of the
time they were deep in herring and chintzes and linen, or in computations of the slowness of
the passage, and left us to our own concerns, which were very little important to any but ourselves.

At the first, we had a great deal to say, and thought ourselves pretty witty; and I was at
a little pains to be the beau, and she (I believe) to play the young lady of experience. But
soon we grew plainer with each other; I laid aside my high, clipped English (what little there
was of it) and forgot to make my Edinburgh bows and scrapes; she upon her side, fell into a
sort of kind familiarity; and we dwelt together like those of the same household, only (upon
my side) with a more deep emotion. About the same time, the bottom seemed to fall out of our
conversation, and neither one of us the less pleased. Whiles she would tell me old wives' tales,
of which she had a wonderful variety, many of them from my friend red-headed Niel. She told
them very pretty, and they were pretty enough childish tales; but the pleasure to myself was
in the sound of her voice, and the thought that she was telling and I listening. Whiles, again,
we would sit entirely silent, not communicating even with a look, and tasting pleasure enough
in the sweetness of that neighbourhood. I speak here only for myself. Of what was in the maid's
mind, I am not very sure that ever I asked myself; and what was in my own, I was afraid to
consider. I need make no secret of it now, either to myself or to the reader: I was fallen
totally in love. She came between me and the sun. She had grown suddenly taller, as I say,
but with a wholesome growth; she seemed all health, and lightness, and brave spirits; and I
thought she walked like a young deer, and stood like a birch upon the mountains. It was enough
for me to sit near by her on the deck; and I declare I scarce spent two thoughts upon the future,
and was so well content with what I then enjoyed that I was never at the pains to imagine any
further step; unless perhaps that I would be sometimes tempted to take her hand in mine and
hold it there. But I was too like a miser of what joys I had and would venture nothing on a hazard.

What we spoke was usually of ourselves or of each other, so that if anyone had been at so much
pains as overhear us, he must have supposed us the most egotistical persons in the world. It
befell one day when we were at this practice, that we came on a discourse of friends and friendship,
and I think now that we were sailing near the wind. We said what a fine thing friendship was,
and how little we had guessed of it, and how it made life a new thing, and a thousand covered
things of the same kind that will have been said, since the foundation of the world, by young
folk in the same predicament. Then we remarked upon the strangeness of that circumstance, that
friends came together in the beginning as if they were there for the first time, and yet each
had been alive a good while, losing time with other people.

"It is not much that I have done," said she, "and I could be telling you the five-fifths of
it in two-three words. It is only a girl I am, and what can befall a girl, at all events? But
I went with the clan in the year '45. The men marched with swords and firelocks, and some of
them in brigades in the same set of tartan; they were not backward at the marching, I can tell
you. And there were gentlemen from the Low Country, with their tenants mounted and trumpets
to sound, and there was a grand skirling of war-pipes. I rode on a little Highland horse on
the right hand of my father, James More, and of Glengyle himself. And here is one fine thing
that I remember, that Glengyle kissed me in the face, because (says he) 'my kinswoman, you
are the only lady of the clan that has come out,' and me a little maid of maybe twelve years
old! I saw Prince Charlie too, and the blue eyes of him; he was pretty indeed! I had his hand
to kiss in the front of the army. O, well, these were the good days, but it is all like a dream
that I have seen and then awakened. It went what way you very well know; and these were the
worst days of all, when the red-coat soldiers were out, and my father and my uncles lay in
the hill, and I was to be carrying them their meat in the middle night, or at the short side
of day when the cocks crow. Yes, I have walked in the night, many's the time, and my heart
great in me for terror of the darkness. It is a strange thing I will never have been meddled
with a bogle; but they say a maid goes safe. Next there was my uncle's marriage, and that was
a dreadful affair beyond all. Jean Kay was that woman's name; and she had me in the room with
her that night at Inversnaid, the night we took her from her friends in the old, ancient manner.
She would and she wouldn't; she was for marrying Rob the one minute, and the next she would
be for none of him. I will never have seen such a feckless creature of a woman; surely all
there was of her would tell her ay or no. Well, she was a widow, and I can never be thinking
a widow a good woman."

"Catriona!" says I, "how do you make out that?"

"I do not know," said she; "I am only telling you the seeming in my heart. And then to marry
a new man! Fy! But that was her; and she was married again upon my Uncle Robin, and went with
him awhile to kirk and market; and then wearied, or else her friends got claught of her and
talked her round, or maybe she turned ashamed; at the least of it, she ran away, and went back
to her own folk, and said we had held her in the lake, and I will never tell you all what.
I have never thought much of any females since that day. And so in the end my father, James
More, came to be cast in prison, and you know the rest of it as well as me."

"And through all you had no friends?" said I.

"No," said she; "I have been pretty chief with two-three lasses on the braes, but not to call
it friends."

"Well, mine is a plain tale," said I. "I never had a friend to my name till I met in with you."

"And that brave Mr. Stewart?" she asked.

"O, yes, I was forgetting him," I said. "But he is a man, and that is very different."

"I would think so," said she. "O, yes, it is quite different."

"And then there was one other," said I. "I once thought I had a friend, but it proved a disappointment."

She asked me who she was?

"It was a he, then," said I. "We were the two best lads at my father's school, and we thought
we loved each other dearly. Well, the time came when he went to Glasgow to a merchant's house,
that was his second cousin once removed; and wrote me two-three times by the carrier; and then
he found new friends, and I might write till I was tired, he took no notice. Eh, Catriona,
it took me a long while to forgive the world. There is not anything more bitter than to lose
a fancied friend."

Then she began to question me close upon his looks and character, for we were each a great
deal concerned in all that touched the other; till at last, in a very evil hour, I minded of
his letters and went and fetched the bundle from the cabin.

"Here are his letters," said I, "and all the letters that ever I got. That will be the last
I'll can tell of myself; you know the lave[26] as well as I do."

"Will you let me read them, then?" says she.

I told her, if she would be at the pains; and she bade me go away and she would read them from
the one end to the other. Now, in this bundle that I gave her, there were packed together not
only all the letters of my false friend, but one or two of Mr. Campbell's when he was in town
at the Assembly, and to make a complete roll of all that ever was written to me, Catriona's
little word, and the two I had received from Miss Grant, one when I was on the Bass and one
on board that ship. But of these last I had no particular mind at the moment.

I was in that state of subjection to the thought of my friend that it mattered not what I did,
nor scarce whether I was in her presence or out of it; I had caught her like some kind of a
noble fever that lived continually in my bosom, by night and by day, and whether I was waking
or asleep. So it befell that after I was come into the fore-part of the ship where the broad
bows splashed into the billows, I was in no such hurry to return as you might fancy; rather
prolonged my absence like a variety in pleasure. I do not think I am by nature much of an Epicurean;
and there had come till then so small a share of pleasure in my way that I might be excused
perhaps to dwell on it unduly.

When I returned to her again, I had a faint, painful impression as of a buckle slipped, so
coldly she returned the packet.

"You have read them?" said I; and I thought my voice sounded not wholly natural, for I was
turning in my mind for what could ail her.

"Did you mean me to read all?" she asked.

I told her "Yes," with a drooping voice.

"The last of them as well?" said she.

I knew where we were now; yet I would not lie to her either. "I gave them all without after-thought,"
I said, "as I supposed that you would read them. I see no harm in any."

"I will be differently made," said she. "I thank God I am differently made. It was not a fit
letter to be shown me. It was not fit to be written."

"I think you are speaking of your own friend, Barbara Grant?" said I.

"There will not be anything as bitter as to lose a fancied friend," said she, quoting my own
expression.

"I think it is sometimes the friendship that was fancied!" I cried. "What kind of justice do
you call this, to blame me for some words that a tomfool of a madcap lass has written down
upon a piece of paper? You know yourself with what respect I have behaved--and would do always."

"Yet you would show me that same letter!" says she. "I want no such friends. I can be doing
very well, Mr. Balfour, without her--or you."

"This is your fine gratitude!" says I.

"I am very much obliged to you," said she. "I will be asking you to take away your--letters."
She seemed to choke upon the word, so that it sounded like an oath.

"You shall never ask twice," said I; picked up that bundle, walked a little way forward and
cast them as far as possible into the sea. For a very little more, I could have cast myself
after them.

The rest of the day I walked up and down raging. There were few names so ill but what I gave
her them in my own mind before the sun went down. All that I had ever heard of Highland pride
seemed quite outdone; that a girl (scarce grown) should resent so trifling an allusion, and
that from her next friend, that she had near wearied me with praising of! I had bitter, sharp,
hard thoughts of her, like an angry boy's. If I had kissed her indeed (I thought), perhaps
she would have taken it pretty well; and only because it had been written down, and with a
spice of jocularity, up she must fuff in this ridiculous passion. It seemed to me there was
a want of penetration in the female sex, to make angels weep over the case of the poor men.

We were side by side again at supper, and what a change was there! She was like curdled milk
to me; her face was like a wooden doll's; I could have indifferently smitten her or grovelled
at her feet, but she gave me not the least occasion to do either. No sooner the meal done than
she betook herself to attend on Mrs. Gebbie, which I think she had a little neglected heretofore.
But she was to make up for lost time, and in what remained of the passage was extraordinary
assiduous with the old lady, and on deck began to make a great deal more than I thought wise
of Captain Sang. Not but what the captain seemed a worthy, fatherly man; but I hated to behold
her in the least familiarity with anyone except myself.

Altogether, she was so quick to avoid me, and so constant to keep herself surrounded with others,
that I must watch a long while before I could find my opportunity; and after it was found,
I made not much of it, as you are now to hear.

"I have no guess how I have offended," said I; "it should scarce be beyond pardon, then. O,
try if you can pardon me."

"I have no pardon to give," said she; and the words seemed to come out of her throat like marbles.
"I will be very much obliged for all your friendships." And she made me an eight part of a curtsey.

But I had schooled myself beforehand to say more, and I was going to say it too.

"There is one thing," said I. "If I have shocked your particularity by the showing of that
letter, it cannot touch Miss Grant. She wrote not to you, but to a poor, common, ordinary lad,
who might have had more sense than show it. If you are to blame me--"

"I will advise you to say no more about that girl, at all events!" said Catriona. "It is her
I will never look the road of, not if she lay dying." She turned away from me, and suddenly
back. "Will you swear you will have no more to deal with her?" she cried.

"Indeed, and I will never be so unjust then," said I; "nor yet so ungrateful."

And now it was I that turned away.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXII

HELVOETSLUYS

The weather in the end considerably worsened; the wind sang in the shrouds, the sea swelled
higher, and the ship began to labour and cry out among the billows. The song of the leadsman
in the chains was now scarce ceasing, for we thrid all the way among shoals. About nine in
the morning, in a burst of wintry sun between two squalls of hail, I had my first look of Holland--a
line of windmills birling in the breeze. It was besides my first knowledge of these daft-like
contrivances, which gave me a near sense of foreign travel and a new world and life. We came
to an anchor about half-past eleven, outside the harbour of Helvoetsluys, in a place where
the sea sometimes broke and the ship pitched outrageously. You may be sure we were all on deck
save Mrs. Gebbie, some of us in cloaks, others mantled in the ship's tarpaulins, all clinging
on by ropes, and jesting the most like old sailor-folk that we could imitate.

Presently a boat, that was backed like a partan-crab, came gingerly alongside, and the skipper
of it hailed our master in the Dutch. Thence Captain Sang turned, very troubled like, to Catriona;
and the rest of us crowding about, the nature of the difficulty was made plain to all. The
Rose was bound to the port of Rotterdam, whither the other passengers were in a great impatience
to arrive, in view of a conveyance due to leave that very evening in the direction of the Upper
Germany. This, with the present half-gale of wind, the captain (if no time were lost) declared
himself still capable to save. Now James More had trysted in Helvoet with his daughter, and
the captain had engaged to call before the port and place her (according to the custom) in
a shore boat. There was the boat, to be sure, and there was Catriona ready: but both our master
and the patroon of the boat scrupled at the risk, and the first was in no humour to delay.

"Your father," said he, "would be gey an little pleased if we was to break a leg to ye, Miss
Drummond, let-a-be drowning of you. Take my way of it," says he, "and come on-by with the rest
of us here to Rotterdam. Ye can get a passage down the Maes in a sailing scoot as far to the
Brill, and thence on again, by a place in a rattel-waggon, back to Helvoet."

But Catriona would hear of no change. She looked white-like as she beheld the bursting of the
sprays, the green seas that sometimes poured upon the forecastle, and the perpetual bounding
and swooping of the boat among the billows; but she stood firmly by her father's orders. "My
father, James More, will have arranged it so," was her first word and her last. I thought it
very idle and indeed wanton in the girl to be so literal and stand opposite to so much kind
advice; but the fact is she had a very good reason, if she would have told us. Sailing scoots
and rattel-waggons are excellent things; only the use of them must first be paid for, and all
she was possessed of in the world was just two shillings and a penny halfpenny sterling. So
it fell out that captain and passengers, not knowing of her destitution--and she being too
proud to tell them--spoke in vain.

"But you ken nae French and nae Dutch neither," said one.

"It is very true," says she, "but since the year '46 there are so many of the honest Scots
abroad that I will be doing very well, I thank you."

There was a pretty country simplicity in this that made some laugh, others looked the more
sorry, and Mr. Gebbie fall outright in a passion. I believe he knew it was his duty (his wife
having accepted charge of the girl) to have gone ashore with her and seen her safe; nothing
would have induced him to have done so, since it must have involved the loss of his conveyance;
and I think he made it up to his conscience by the loudness of his voice. At least he broke
out upon Captain Sang, raging and saying the thing was a disgrace; that it was mere death to
try to leave the ship, and at any event we could not cast down an innocent maid in a boatful
of nasty Holland fishers, and leave her to her fate. I was thinking something of the same;
took the mate upon one side, arranged with him to send on my chests by track-scoot to an address
I had in Leyden, and stood up and signalled to the fishers.

"I will go ashore with the young lady, Captain Sang," said I. "It is all one what way I go
to Leyden;" and leaped at the same time into the boat, which I managed not so elegantly but
what I fell with two of the fishers in the bilge.

From the boat the business appeared yet more precarious than from the ship, she stood so high
over us, swung down so swift, and menaced us so perpetually with her plunging and passaging
upon the anchor cable. I began to think I had made a fool's bargain, that it was merely impossible
Catriona should be got on board to me, and that I stood to be set ashore at Helvoet all by
myself and with no hope of any reward but the pleasure of embracing James More, if I should
want to. But this was to reckon without the lass's courage. She had seen me leap with very
little appearance (however much reality) of hesitation; to be sure, she was not to be beat
by her discarded friend. Up she stood on the bulwarks and held by a stay, the wind blowing
in her petticoats, which made the enterprise more dangerous and gave us rather more of a view
of her stockings than would be thought genteel in cities. There was no minute lost, and scarce
time given for any to interfere if they had wished the same. I stood up on the other side and
spread my arms; the ship swung down on us, the patroon humoured his boat nearer in than was
perhaps wholly safe, and Catriona leaped into the air. I was so happy as to catch her, and
the fishers readily supporting us, escaped a fall. She held to me a moment very tight, breathing
quick and deep; thence (she still clinging to me with both hands) we were passed aft to our
places by the steersman; and Captain Sang and all the crew and passengers cheering and crying
farewell, the boat was put about for shore.

As soon as Catriona came a little to herself she unhanded me suddenly but said no word. No
more did I; and indeed the whistling of the wind and the breaching of the sprays made it no
time for speech; and our crew not only toiled excessively but made extremely little way, so
that the Rose had got her anchor and was off again before we had approached the harbour mouth.

We were no sooner in smooth water than the patroon, according to their beastly Hollands custom,
stopped his boat and required of us our fares. Two guilders was the man's demand, between three
and four shillings English money, for each passenger. But at this Catriona began to cry out
with a vast deal of agitation. She had asked of Captain Sang, she said, and the fare was but
an English shilling. "Do you think I will have come on board and not ask first?" cries she.
The patroon scolded back upon her in a lingo where the oaths were English and the rest right
Hollands; till at last (seeing her near tears) I privately slipped in the rogue's hand six
shillings, whereupon he was obliging enough to receive from her the other shilling without
more complaint. No doubt I was a good deal nettled and ashamed. I like to see folk thrifty
but not with so much passion; and I daresay it would be rather coldly that I asked her, as
the boat moved on again for shore, where it was that she was trysted with her father.

"He is to be inquired of at the house of one Sprott, an honest Scotch merchant," says she;
and then with the same breath, "I am wishing to thank you very much--you are a brave friend to me."

"It will be time enough when I get you to your father," said I, little thinking that I spoke
so true. "I can tell him a fine tale of a loyal daughter."

"O, I do not think I will be a loyal girl, at all events," she cried, with a great deal of
painfulness in the expression. "I do not think my heart is true."

"Yet there are very few that would have made that leap, and all to obey a father's orders,"
I observed.

"I cannot have you to be thinking of me so," she cried again. "When you had done that same,
how would I stop behind? And at all events that was not all the reasons." Whereupon, with a
burning face, she told me the plain truth upon her poverty.

"Good guide us!" cried I, "what kind of daft-like proceeding is this, to let yourself be launched
on the continent of Europe with an empty purse--I count it hardly decent--scant decent!" I cried.

"You forget James More, my father, is a poor gentleman," said she. "He is a hunted exile."

"But I think not all your friends are hunted exiles," I exclaimed. "And was this fair to them
that care for you? Was it fair to me? was it fair to Miss Grant that counselled you to go,
and would be driven fair horn-mad if she could hear of it? Was it even fair to these Gregory
folk that you were living with, and used you lovingly? It's a blessing you have fallen in my
hands! Suppose your father hindered by an accident, what would become of you here, and you
your lee-alone in a strange place? The thought of the thing frightens me," I said.

"I will have lied to all of them," she replied. "I will have told them all that I had plenty.
I told her too. I could not be lowering James More to them."

I found out later on that she must have lowered him in the very dust, for the lie was originally
the father's not the daughter's, and she thus obliged to persevere in it for the man's reputation.
But at the time I was ignorant of this, and the mere thought of her destitution and the perils
in which she must have fallen, had ruffled me almost beyond reason.

"Well, well, well," said I, "you will have to learn more sense."

I left her mails for the moment in an inn upon the shore, where I got a direction for Sprott's
house in my new French, and we walked there--it was some little way--beholding the place with
wonder as we went. Indeed, there was much for Scots folk to admire; canals and trees being
intermingled with the houses; the houses, each within itself, of a brave red brick, the colour
of a rose, with steps and benches of blue marble at the cheek of every door, and the whole
town so clean you might have dined upon the causeway. Sprott was within, upon his ledgers,
in a low parlour, very neat and clean, and set out with china and pictures and a globe of the
earth in a brass frame. He was a big-chafted, ruddy, lusty man, with a crooked hard look to
him; and he made us not that much civility as offer us a seat.

"Is James More Macgregor now in Helvoet, sir?" says I.

"I ken nobody by such a name," says he, impatient-like.

"Sir," says he, "he may be in Hell for what I ken, and for my part I wish he was."

"The young lady is that gentleman's daughter, sir," said I, "before whom, I think you will
agree with me, it is not very becoming to discuss his character."

"I have nothing to make either with him, or her, or you!" cries he in his gross voice.

"Under your favour, Mr. Sprott," said I, "this young lady is come from Scotland seeking him,
and by whatever mistake, was given the name of your house for a direction. An error it seems
to have been, but I think this places both you and me--who am but her fellow-traveller by accident--under
a strong obligation to help our countrywoman."

"Will you ding me daft?" he cries. "I tell ye I ken naething and care less either for him or
his breed. I tell ye the man owes me money."

"That may very well be, sir," said I, who was now rather more angry than himself. "At least
I owe you nothing; the young lady is under my protection; and I am neither at all used with
these manners, nor in the least content with them."

As I said this, and without particularly thinking what I did, I drew a step or two nearer to
his table; thus striking, by mere good fortune, on the only argument that could at all affect
the man. The blood left his lusty countenance.

"For the Lord's sake dinna be hasty, sir!" he cried. "I am truly wishfu' no to be offensive.
But ye ken, sir, I'm like a wheen guid-natured, honest, canty auld fallows--my bark is waur
nor my bite. To hear me, ye micht whiles fancy I was a wee thing dour; but na, na! its a kind
auld fellow at heart, Sandie Sprott! And ye could never imagine the fyke and fash this man
has been to me."

"Very good, sir," said I. "Then I will make that much freedom with your kindness, as trouble
you for your last news of Mr. Drummond."

"You're welcome, sir!" said he. "As for the young leddy (my respec's to her!) he'll just have
clean forgotten her. I ken the man, ye see; I have lost siller by him ere now. He thinks of
naebody but just himsel'; clan, king, or dauchter, if he can get his wameful, he would give
them a' the go-by! ay, or his correspondent either. For there is a sense in whilk I may be
nearly almost said to be his correspondent. The fact is, we are employed thegether in a business
affair, and I think it's like to turn out a dear affair for Sandie Sprott. The man's as guid's
my pairtner, and I give ye my mere word I ken naething by where he is. He micht be coming here
to Helvoet; he micht come here the morn, he michtnae come for a twalmonth; I would wonder at
naething--or just at the ae thing, and that's if he was to pay me my siller. Ye see what way
I stand with it; and it's clear I'm no very likely to meddle up with the young leddy, as ye
ca' her. She cannae stop here, that's ae thing certain sure. Dod, sir, I'm a lone man! If I
was to tak her in, its highly possible the hellicat would try and gar me marry her when he
turned up."

"Enough of this talk," said I. "I will take the young lady among better friends. Give me pen,
ink, and paper, and I will leave here for James More the address of my correspondent in Leyden.
He can inquire from me where he is to seek his daughter."

This word I wrote and sealed; which while I was doing, Sprott of his own motion made a welcome
offer, to charge himself with Miss Drummond's mails, and even send a porter for them to the
inn. I advanced him to that effect a dollar or two to be a cover, and he gave me an acknowledgment
in writing of the sum.

Whereupon (I giving my arm to Catriona) we left the house of this unpalatable rascal. She had
said no word throughout, leaving me to judge and speak in her place; I, upon my side, had been
careful not to embarrass her by a glance; and even now although my heart still glowed inside
of me with shame and anger, I made it my affair to seem quite easy.

"Now," said I, "let us get back to yon same inn where they can speak the French, have a piece
of dinner, and inquire for conveyances to Rotterdam. I will never be easy till I have you safe
again in the hands of Mrs. Gebbie."

"I suppose it will have to be," said Catriona, "though whoever will be pleased, I do not think
it will be her. And I will remind you this once again that I have but one shilling, and three
baubees."

"And just this once again," said I, "I will remind you it was a blessing that I came alongst
with you."

"What else would I be thinking all this time!" says she, and I thought weighed a little on
my arm. "It is you that are the good friend to me."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXIII

TRAVELS IN HOLLAND

The rattel-wagon, which is a kind of a long wagon set with benches, carried us in four hours
of travel to the great city of Rotterdam. It was long past dark by then, but the streets pretty
brightly lighted and thronged with the wild-like, outlandish characters--bearded Hebrews, black
men, and the hordes of courtesans, most indecently adorned with finery and stopping seamen
by their very sleeves; the clash of talk about us made our heads to whirl; and what was the
most unexpected of all, we appeared to be no more struck with all these foreigners than they
with us. I made the best face I could, for the lass's sake and my own credit; but the truth
is I felt like a lost sheep, and my heart beat in my bosom with anxiety. Once or twice I inquired
after the harbor or the berth of the ship Rose; but either fell on some who spoke only Hollands,
or my own French failed me. Trying a street at a venture, I came upon a lane of lighted houses,
the doors and windows thronged with wauf-like painted women; these jostled and mocked upon
us as we passed, and I was thankful we had nothing of their language. A little after we issued
forth upon an open place along the harbour.

"We shall be doing now," cries I, as soon as I spied masts. "Let us walk here by the harbour.
We are sure to meet some that has the English, and at the best of it we may light upon that
very ship."

We did the next best, as happened; for about nine of the evening, whom should we walk into
the arms of but Captain Sang? He told us they had made their run in the most incredible brief
time, the wind holding strong until they reached port; by which means his passengers were all
gone already on their further travels. It was impossible to chase after the Gebbies into High
Germany, and we had no other acquaintance to fall back upon but Captain Sang himself. It was
the more gratifying to find the man friendly and wishful to assist. He made it a small affair
to find some good plain family of merchants, where Catriona might harbour till the Rose was
loaden; declared he would then blithely carry her back to Leith for nothing and see her safe
in the hands of Mr. Gregory; and in the meanwhile carried us to a late ordinary for the meal
we stood in need of. He seemed extremely friendly, as I say, but what surprised me a good deal,
rather boisterous in the bargain; and the cause of this was soon to appear. For at the ordinary,
calling for Rhenish wine and drinking of it deep, he soon became unutterably tipsy. In, this
case, as too common with all men, but especially with those of his rough trade, what little
sense or manners he possessed deserted him; and he behaved himself so scandalous to the young
lady, jesting most ill-favoredly at the figure she had made on the ship's rail, that I had
no resource but carry her suddenly away.

She came out of that ordinary clinging to me close. "Take me away, David," she said. "You keep
me. I am not afraid with you."

"And have no cause, my little friend!" cried I, and could have found it in my heart to weep.

"Where will you be taking me?" she said again. "Don't leave me at all events, never leave me."

"Where am I taking you indeed?" says I stopping, for I had been staving on ahead in mere blindness.
"I must stop and think. But I'll not leave you, Catriona; the Lord do so to me, and more also,
if I should fail or fash you."

She crept closer in to me by way of a reply.

"Here," I said, "is the stillest place that we have hit on yet in this busy byke of a city.
Let us sit down here under yon tree and consider of our course."

That tree (which I am little like to forget) stood hard by the harbour side. It was a black
night, but lights were in the houses, and nearer hand in the quiet ships; there was a shining
of the city on the one hand, and a buzz hung over it of many thousands walking and talking;
on the other, it was dark and the water bubbled on the sides. I spread my cloak upon a builder's
stone, and made her sit there; she would have kept her hold upon me, for she still shook with
the late affronts; but I wanted to think clear, disengaged myself, and paced to and fro before
her, in the manner of what we call a smuggler's walk, belabouring my brains for any remedy.
By the course of these scattering thoughts I was brought suddenly face to face with a remembrance
that, in the heat and haste of our departure, I had left Captain Sang to pay the ordinary.
At this I began to laugh out loud, for I thought the man well served; and at the same time,
by an instinctive movement, carried my hand to the pocket where my money was. I suppose it
was in the lane where the women jostled us; but there is only the one thing certain, that my
purse was gone.

"You will have thought of something good," said she, observing me to pause.

At the pinch we were in, my mind became suddenly clear as a perspective glass, and I saw there
was no choice of methods. I had not one doit of coin, but in my pocket-book I had still my
letter on the Leyden merchant; and there was now but the one way to get to Leyden, and that
was to walk on our two feet.

"Catriona," said I, "I know you're brave and I believe you're strong, do you think you could
walk thirty miles on a plain road?" We found it, I believe, scarce the two-thirds of that,
but such was my notion of the distance.

"David," she said, "if you will just keep near, I will go anywhere and do anything. The courage
of my heart, it is all broken. Do not be leaving me in this horrible country by myself, and
I will do all else."

"Can you start now and march all night?" said I.

"I will do all that you can ask of me," she said, "and never ask you why. I have been a bad
ungrateful girl to you; and do what you please with me now! And I think Miss Barbara Grant
is the best lady in the world," she added, "and I do not see what she would deny you for at
all events."

This was Greek and Hebrew to me; but I had other matters to consider, and the first of these
was to get clear of that city on the Leyden road. It proved a cruel problem; and it may have
been one or two at night ere we had solved it. Once beyond the houses, there was neither moon
or stars to guide us; only the whiteness of the way in the midst and a blackness of an alley
on both hands. The walking was besides made most extraordinary difficult by a plain black frost
that fell suddenly in the small hours and turned that highway into one long slide.

"Well, Catriona," said I, "here we are like the king's sons and the old wives' daughters in
your daft-like Highland tales. Soon we'll be going over the 'seven Bens, the seven glens, and
the seven mountain moors.'" Which was a common byword or overcome in these tales of hers that
had stuck in my memory.

"Ah," says she, "but here are no glens or mountains! Though I will never be denying but what
the trees and some of the plain places hereabouts are very pretty. But our country is the best
yet."

"I wish we could say as much for our own folk," says I, recalling Sprott and Sang, and perhaps
James More himself.

"I will never complain of the country of my friend," said she, and spoke it out with an accent
so particular that I seemed to see the look upon her face.

I caught in my breath sharp and came near falling (for my pains) on the black ice.

"I do not know what you think, Catriona," said I, when I was a little recovered, "but this
has been the best day yet! I think shame to say it, when you have met in with such misfortunes
and disfavours; but for me, it has been the best day yet."

"It was a good day when you showed me so much love," said she.

"And yet I think shame to be happy too," I went on, "and you here on the road in the black night."

"Where in the great world would I be else?" she cried. "I am thinking I am safest where I am
with you."

"I am quite forgiven, then?" I asked.

"Will you not forgive me that time so much as not to take it in your mouth again?" she cried.
"There's is nothing in this heart to you but thanks. But I will be honest too," she added,
with a kind of suddenness, "and I'll never can forgive that girl."

"Is this Miss Grant again?" said I. "You said yourself she was the best lady in the world."

"So she will be, indeed!" says Catriona. "But I will never forgive her for all that. I will
never, never forgive her, and let me hear tell of her no more."

"Well," said I, "this beats all that ever came to my knowledge; and I wonder that you can indulge
yourself in such bairnly whims. Here is a young lady that was the best friend in the world
to the both of us, that learned us how to dress ourselves, and in a great manner how to behave,
as anyone can see that knew us both before and after."

But Catriona stopped square in the midst of the highway.

"It is this way of it," said she. "Either you will go on to speak of her, and I will go back
to yon town, and let come of it what God pleases! Or else you will do me that politeness to
talk of other things."

I was the most nonplussed person in this world; but I bethought me that she depended altogether
on my help, that she was of the frail sex and not so much beyond a child, and it was for me
to be wise for the pair of us.

"My dear girl," said I, "I can make neither head nor tails of this; but God forbid that I should
do anything to set you on the jee. As for talking of Miss Grant I have no such a mind to it,
and I believe it was yourself began it. My only design (if I took you up at all) was for your
own improvement, for I hate the very look of injustice. Not that I do not wish you to have
a good pride and a nice female delicacy; they become you well; but here you show them to excess."

"Well, then, have you done?" said she.

"I have done," said I.

"A very good thing," said she, and we went on again, but now in silence.

It was an eerie employment to walk in the gross night, beholding only shadows and hearing nought
but our own steps. At first, I believe our hearts burned against each other with a deal of
enmity; but the darkness and the cold, and the silence, which only the cocks sometimes interrupted,
or sometimes the farmyard dogs, had pretty soon brought down our pride to the dust; and for
my own particular, I would have jumped at any decent opening for speech.

Before the day peeped, came on a warmish rain, and the frost was all wiped away from among
our feet. I took my cloak to her and sought to hap her in the same; she bade me, rather impatiently,
to keep it.

"Indeed and I will do no such thing," said I. "Here am I, a great, ugly lad that has seen all
kinds of weather, and here are you a tender, pretty maid! My dear, you would not put me to
a shame?"

Without more words she let me cover her; which as I was doing in the darkness, I let my hand
rest a moment on her shoulder, almost like an embrace.

"You must try to be more patient of your friend," said I.

I thought she seemed to lean the least thing in the world against my bosom, or perhaps it was
but fancy.

"There will be no end to your goodness," said she.

And we went on again in silence; but now all was changed; and the happiness that was in my
heart was like a fire in a great chimney.

The rain passed ere day; it was but a sloppy morning as we came into the town of Delft. The
red gabled houses made a handsome show on either hand of a canal; the servant lassies were
out slestering and scrubbing at the very stones upon the public highway; smoke rose from a
hundred kitchens; and it came in upon me strongly it was time to break our fasts.

"Catriona," said I, "I believe you have yet a shilling and three baubees?"

"Are you wanting it?" said she, and passed me her purse. "I am wishing it was five pounds!
What will you want it for?"

"And what have we been walking for all night, like a pair of waif Egyptians?" says I. "Just
because I was robbed of my purse and all I possessed in that unchancy town of Rotterdam. I
will tell you of it now, because I think the worst is over, but we have still a good tramp
before us till we get to where my money is, and if you would not buy me a piece of bread, I
were like to go fasting."

She looked at me with open eyes. By the light of the new day she was all black and pale for
weariness, so that my heart smote me for her. But as for her, she broke out laughing.

"My torture! are we beggars then?" she cried. "You too? O, I could have wished for this same
thing! And I am glad to buy your breakfast to you. But it would be pleisand if I would have
had to dance to get a meal to you! For I believe they are not very well acquainted with our
manner of dancing over here, and might be paying for the curiosity of that sight."

I could have kissed her for that word, not with a lover's mind, but in a heat of admiration.
For it always warms a man to see a woman brave.

We got a drink of milk from a country wife but new come to the town, and in a baker's, a piece
of excellent, hot, sweet-smelling bread, which we ate upon the road as we went on. That road
from Delft to the Hague is just five miles of a fine avenue shaded with trees, a canal on the
one hand, on the other excellent pastures of cattle. It was pleasant here indeed.

"And now, Davie," said she, "what will you do with me at all events?"

"It is what we have to speak of," said I, "and the sooner yet the better. I can come by money
in Leyden; that will be all well. But the trouble is how to dispose of you until your father
come. I thought last night you seemed a little sweir to part from me?"

"It will be more than seeming then," said she.

"You are a very young maid," said I, "and I am but a very young callant. This is a great piece
of difficulty. What way are we to manage? Unless, indeed, you could pass to be my sister?"

"And what for no?" said she, "if you would let me!"

"I wish you were so, indeed!" I cried. "I would be a fine man if I had such a sister. But the
rub is that you are Catriona Drummond."

"And now I will be Catrine Balfour," she said. "And who is to ken? They are all strange folk here."

"If you think that it would do," says I. "I own it troubles me. I would like it very ill, if
I advised you at all wrong."

"David, I have no friend here but you," she said.

"The mere truth is, I am too young to be your friend," said I. "I am too young to advise you,
or you to be advised. I see not what else we are to do, and yet I ought to warn you."

"I will have no choice left," said she. "My father James More has not used me very well, and
it is not the first time. I am cast upon your hands like a sack of barley meal, and have nothing
else to think of but your pleasure. If you will have me, good and well. If you will not"--she
turned and touched her hand upon my arm--"David, I am afraid," said she.

"No, but I ought to warn you," I began; and then bethought me that I was the bearer of the
purse, and it would never do to seem too churlish. "Catriona," said I, "don't misunderstand
me: I am just trying to do my duty by you, girl! Here am I going alone to this strange city,
to be a solitary student there; and here is this chance arisen that you might dwell with me
a bit, and be like my sister: you can surely understand this much, my dear, that I would just
love to have you?"

"Well, and here I am," said she. "So that's soon settled."

I know I was in duty bounden to have spoke more plain. I know this was a great blot on my character
for which I was lucky that I did not pay more dear. But I minded how easy her delicacy had
been startled with a word of kissing her in Barbara's letter; now that she depended on me,
how was I to be more bold? Besides, the truth is, I could see no other feasible method to dispose
of her. And I daresay inclination pulled me very strong.

A little beyond the Hague she fell very lame and made the rest of the distance heavily enough.
Twice she must rest by the wayside, which she did with pretty apologies, calling herself a
shame to the Highlands and the race she came of, and nothing but a hindrance to myself. It
was her excuse, she said, that she was not much used with walking shod. I would have had her
strip off her shoes and stockings and go barefoot. But she pointed out to me that the women
of that country, even in the landward roads, appeared to be all shod.

"I must not be disgracing my brother," said she, and was very merry with it all, although her
face told tales of her.

There is a garden in that city we were bound to, sanded below with clean sand, the trees meeting
overhead, some of them trimmed, some pleached, and the whole place beautified with alleys and
arbours. Here I left Catriona, and went forward by myself to find my correspondent. There I
drew on my credit, and asked to be recommended to some decent, retired lodging. My baggage
not being yet arrived, I told him I supposed I should require his caution with the people of
the house; and explained that, my sister being come for a while to keep house with me, I should
be wanting two chambers. This was all very well; but the trouble was that Mr. Balfour in his
letter of recommendation had condescended on a great deal of particulars, and never a word
of any sister in the case. I could see my Dutchman was extremely suspicious; and viewing me
over the rims of a great pair of spectacles--he was a poor, frail body, and reminded me of
an infirm rabbit--he began to question me close.

Here I fell in a panic. Suppose he accept my tale (thinks I), suppose he invite my sister to
his house, and that I bring her. I shall have a fine ravelled pirn to unwind, and may end by
disgracing both the lassie and myself. Thereupon I began hastily to expound to him my sister's
character. She was of a bashful disposition, it appeared, and so extremely fearful of meeting
strangers that I had left her at that moment sitting in a public place alone. And then, being
launched upon the stream of falsehood, I must do like all the rest of the world in the same
circumstance, and plunge in deeper than was any service; adding some altogether needless particulars
of Miss Balfour's ill-health and retirement during childhood. In the midst of which I awoke
to a sense of my behaviour, and was turned to one blush.

The old gentleman was not so much deceived but what he discovered a willingness to be quit
of me. But he was first of all a man of business; and knowing that my money was good enough,
however it might be with my conduct, he was so far obliging as to send his son to be my guide
and caution in the matter of a lodging. This implied my presenting of the young man to Catriona.
The poor, pretty child was much recovered with resting, looked and behaved to perfection, and
took my arm and gave me the name of brother more easily than I could answer her. But there
was one misfortune: thinking to help, she was rather towardly than otherwise to my Dutchman.
And I could not but reflect that Miss Balfour had rather suddenly outgrown her bashfulness.
And there was another thing, the difference of our speech. I had the Low Country tongue and
dwelled upon my words; she had a hill voice, spoke with something of an English accent, only
far more delightful, and was scarce quite fit to be called a deacon in the craft of talking
English grammar; so that, for a brother and sister, we made a most uneven pair. But the young
Hollander was a heavy dog, without so much spirit in his belly as to remark her prettiness,
for which I scorned him. And as soon as he had found a cover to our heads, he left us alone,
which was the greater service of the two.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXIV

FULL STORY OF A COPY OF HEINECCIUS

The place found was in the upper part of a house backed on a canal. We had two rooms, the second
entering from the first; each had a chimney built out into the floor in the Dutch manner; and
being alongside, each had the same prospect from the window of the top of a tree below us in
a little court, of a piece of the canal, and of houses in the Hollands architecture and a church
spire upon the further side. A full set of bells hung in that spire and made delightful music;
and when there was any sun at all, it shone direct in our two chambers. From a tavern hard
by we had good meals sent in.

The first night we were both pretty weary, and she extremely so. There was little talk between
us, and I packed her off to her bed as soon as she had eaten. The first thing in the morning
I wrote word to Sprott to have her mails sent on, together with a line to Alan at his chief's;
and had the same dispatched, and her breakfast ready, ere I waked her. I was a little abashed
when she came forth in her one habit, and the mud of the way upon her stockings. By what inquiries
I had made, it seemed a good few days must pass before her mails could come to hand in Leyden,
and it was plainly needful she must have a shift of things. She was unwilling at first that
I should go to that expense; but I reminded her she was now a rich man's sister and must appear
suitably in the part, and we had not got to the second merchant's before she was entirely charmed
into the spirit of the thing, and her eyes shining. It pleased me to see her so innocent and
thorough in this pleasure. What was more extraordinary was the passion into which I fell on
it myself; being never satisfied that I had bought her enough or fine enough, and never weary
of beholding her in different attires. Indeed, I began to understand some little of Miss Grant's
immersion in that interest of clothes; for the truth is, when you have the ground of a beautiful
person to adorn, the whole business becomes beautiful. The Dutch chintzes I should say were
extraordinary cheap and fine; but I would be ashamed to set down what I paid for stockings
to her. Altogether I spent so great a sum upon this pleasuring (as I may call it) that I was
ashamed for a great while to spend more; and by way of a set off, I left our chambers pretty
bare. If we had beds, if Catriona was a little braw, and I had light to see her by, we were
richly enough lodged for me.

By the end of this merchandising I was glad to leave her at the door with all our purchases,
and go for a long walk alone in which to read myself a lecture. Here had I taken under my roof,
and as good as to my bosom, a young lass extremely beautiful, and whose innocence was her peril.
My talk with the old Dutchman, and the lies to which I was constrained, had already given me
a sense of how my conduct must appear to others; and now, after the strong admiration I had
just experienced and the immoderacy with which I had continued my vain purchases, I began to
think of it myself as very hasarded. I bethought me, if I had a sister indeed, whether I would
so expose her; then, judging the case too problematical, I varied my question into this, whether
I would so trust Catriona in the hands of any other Christian being: the answer to which made
my face to burn. The more cause, since I had been entrapped and had entrapped the girl into
an undue situation, that I should behave in it with scrupulous nicety. She depended on me wholly
for her bread and shelter; in case I should alarm her delicacy, she had no retreat. Besides,
I was her host and her protector; and the more irregularly I had fallen in these positions,
the less excuse for me if I should profit by the same to forward even the most honest suit;
for with the opportunities that I enjoyed, and which no wise parent would have suffered for
a moment, even the most honest suit would be unfair. I saw I must be extremely hold-off in
my relations; and yet not too much so neither; for if I had no right to appear at all in the
character of a suitor, I must yet appear continually, and if possible agreeably, in that of
host. It was plain I should require a great deal of tact and conduct, perhaps more than my
years afforded. But I had rushed in where angels might have feared to tread, and there was
no way out of that position, save by behaving right while I was in it. I made a set of rules
for my guidance; prayed for strength to be enabled to observe them, and as a more human aid
to the same end purchased a study book in law. This being all that I could think of, I relaxed
from these grave considerations; whereupon my mind bubbled at once into an effervescency of
pleasing spirits, and it was like one treading on air that I turned homeward. As I thought
that name of home, and recalled the image of that figure awaiting me between four walls, my
heart beat upon my bosom.

My troubles began with my return. She ran to greet me with an obvious and affecting pleasure.
She was clad, besides, entirely in the new clothes that I had bought for her; looked in them
beyond expression well; and must walk about and drop me curtseys to display them and to be
admired. I am sure I did it with an ill grace, for I thought to have choked upon the words.

"Well," she said, "if you will not be caring for my pretty clothes, see what I have done with
our two chambers." And she showed me the place all very finely swept and the fires glowing
in the two chimneys.

I was glad of a chance to seem a little more severe than I quite felt. "Catriona," said I,
"I am very much displeased with you, and you must never again lay a hand upon my room. One
of us two must have the rule while we are here together; it is most fit it should be I who
am both the man and the elder; and I give you that for my command."

She dropped me one of her curtseys which were extraordinary taking. "If you will be cross,"
said she, "I must be making pretty manners at you, Davie. I will be very obedient, as I should
be when every stitch upon all there is of me belongs to you. But you will not be very cross
either, because now I have not anyone else."

This struck me hard, and I made haste, in a kind of penitence, to blot out all the good effect
of my last speech. In this direction, progress was more easy, being down hill; she led me forward,
smiling; at the sight of her, in the brightness of the fire and with her pretty becks and looks,
my heart was altogether melted. We made our meal with infinite mirth and tenderness; and the
two seemed to be commingled into one, so that our very laughter sounded like a kindness.

In the midst of which I awoke to better recollections, made a lame word of excuse, and set
myself boorishly to my studies. It was a substantial, instructive book that I had bought, by
the late Dr. Heineccius, in which I was to do a great deal of reading these next days, and
often very glad that I had no one to question me of what I read. Methought she bit her lip
at me a little, and that cut me. Indeed it left her wholly solitary, the more as she was very
little of a reader, and had never a book. But what was I to do?

So the rest of the evening flowed by almost without speech.

I could have beat myself. I could not lie in my bed that night for rage and repentance, but
walked to and fro on my bare feet till I was nearly perished, for the chimney was gone out
and the frost keen. The thought of her in the next room, the thought that she might even hear
me as I walked, the remembrance of my churlishness and that I must continue to practise the
same ungrateful course or be dishonoured, put me beside my reason. I stood like a man between
Scylla and Charybdis: What must she think of me? was my one thought that softened me continually
into weakness. What is to become of us? the other which steeled me again to resolution. This
was my first night of wakefulness and divided counsels, of which I was now to pass many, pacing
like a madman, sometimes weeping like a childish boy, sometimes praying (I would fain hope)
like a Christian.

But prayer is not very difficult, and the hitch comes in practice. In her presence, and above
all if I allowed any beginning of familiarity, I found I had very little command of what should
follow. But to sit all day in the same room with her, and feign to be engaged upon Heineccius,
surpassed my strength. So that I fell instead upon the expedient of absenting myself so much
as I was able; taking out classes and sitting there regularly, often with small attention,
the test of which I found the other day in a note-book of that period, where I had left off
to follow an edifying lecture and actually scribbled in my book some very ill verses, though
the Latinity is rather better than I thought I could ever have compassed. The evil of this
course was unhappily near as great as its advantage. I had the less time of trial, but I believe,
while that time lasted, I was tried the more extremely. For she being so much left to solitude,
she came to greet my return with an increasing fervour that came nigh to overmaster me. These
friendly offers I must barbarously cast back; and my rejection sometimes wounded her so cruelly
that I must unbend and seek to make it up to her in kindness. So that our time passed in ups
and downs, tiffs and disappointments, upon the which I could almost say (if it may be said
with reverence) that I was crucified.

The base of my trouble was Catriona's extraordinary innocence, at which I was not so much surprised
as filled with pity and admiration. She seemed to have no thought of our position, no sense
of my struggles; welcomed any mark of my weakness with responsive joy; and when I was drove
again to my retrenchments, did not always dissemble her chagrin. There were times when I have
thought to myself, 'If she were over head in love, and set her cap to catch me, she would scarce
behave much otherwise;' and then I would fall again into wonder at the simplicity of woman,
from whom I felt (in these moments) that I was not worthy to be descended.

There was one point in particular on which our warfare turned, and of all things, this was
the question of her clothes. My baggage had soon followed me from Rotterdam, and hers from
Helvoet. She had now, as it were, two wardrobes; and it grew to be understood between us (I
could never tell how) that when she was friendly she would wear my clothes, and when otherwise
her own. It was meant for a buffet, and (as it were) the renunciation of her gratitude; and
I felt it so in my bosom, but was generally more wise than to appear to have observed the circumstance.

Once, indeed, I was betrayed into a childishness greater than her own; it fell in this way.
On my return from classes, thinking upon her devoutly with a great deal of love and a good
deal of annoyance in the bargain, the annoyance began to fade away out of my mind; and spying
in a window one of those forced flowers, of which the Hollanders are so skilled in the artifice,
I gave way to an impulse and bought it for Catriona. I do not know the name of that flower,
but it was of the pink colour, and I thought she would admire the same, and carried it home
to her with a wonderful soft heart. I had left her in my clothes, and when I returned to find
her all changed and a face to match, I cast but the one look at her from head to foot, ground
my teeth together, flung the window open, and my flower into the court, and then (between rage
and prudence) myself out of that room again, of which I slammed the door as I went out.

On the steep stair I came near falling, and this brought me to myself, so that I began at once
to see the folly of my conduct. I went, not into the street as I had purposed, but to the house
court, which was always a solitary place, and where I saw my flower (that had cost me vastly
more than it was worth) hanging in the leafless tree. I stood by the side of the canal, and
looked upon the ice. Country people went by on their skates, and I envied them. I could see
no way out of the pickle I was in: no way so much as to return to the room I had just left.
No doubt was in my mind but I had now betrayed the secret of my feelings; and to make things
worse, I had shown at the same time (and that with wretched boyishness) incivility to my helpless
guest.

I suppose she must have seen me from the open window. It did not seem to me that I had stood
there very long before I heard the crunching of footsteps on the frozen snow, and turning somewhat
angrily (for I was in no spirit to be interrupted) saw Catriona drawing near. She was all changed
again, to the clocked stockings.

"Are we not to have our walk to-day?" said she.

I was looking at her in a maze. "Where is your brooch?" says I.

She carried her hand to her bosom and coloured high. "I will have forgotten it," said she.
"I will run upstairs for it quick, and then surely we'll can have our walk?"

There was a note of pleading in that last that staggered me; I had neither words nor voice
to utter them; I could do no more than nod by way of answer; and the moment she had left me,
climbed into the tree and recovered my flower, which on her return I offered her.

"I bought it for you, Catriona," said I.

She fixed it in the midst of her bosom with the brooch, I could have thought tenderly.

"It is none the better of my handling," said I again, and blushed.

"I will be liking it none the worse, you may be sure of that," said she.

We did not speak so much that day, she seemed a thought on the reserve though not unkindly.
As for me, all the time of our walking, and after we came home, and I had seen her put my flower
into a pot of water, I was thinking to myself what puzzles women were. I was thinking, the
one moment, it was the most stupid thing on earth she should not have perceived my love; and
the next, that she had certainly perceived it long ago, and (being a wise girl with the fine
female instinct of propriety) concealed her knowledge.

We had our walk daily. Out in the streets I felt more safe; I relaxed a little in my guardedness;
and for one thing, there was no Heineccius. This made these periods not only a relief to myself,
but a particular pleasure to my poor child. When I came back about the hour appointed, I would
generally find her ready dressed and glowing with anticipation. She would prolong their duration
to the extreme, seeming to dread (as I did myself) the hour of the return; and there is scarce
a field or waterside near Leyden, scarce a street or lane there, where we have not lingered.
Outside of these, I bade her confine herself entirely to our lodgings; this in the fear of
her encountering any acquaintance, which would have rendered our position very difficult. From
the same apprehension I would never suffer her to attend church, nor even go myself; but made
some kind of shift to hold worship privately in our own chamber--I hope with an honest, but
I am quite sure with a very much divided mind. Indeed, there was scarce anything that more
affected me, than thus to kneel down alone with her before God like man and wife.

One day it was snowing downright hard. I had thought it not possible that we should venture
forth, and was surprised to find her waiting for me ready dressed.

"I will not be doing without my walk," she cried. "You are never a good boy, Davie, in the
house; I will never be caring for you only in the open air. I think we two will better turn
Egyptian and dwell by the roadside."

That was the best walk yet of all of them; she clung near to me in the falling snow; it beat
about and melted on us, and the drops stood upon her bright cheeks like tears and ran into
her smiling mouth. Strength seemed to come upon me with the sight like a giant's; I thought
I could have caught her up and run with her into the uttermost places in the earth; and we
spoke together all that time beyond belief for freedom and sweetness.

It was the dark night when we came to the house door. She pressed my arm upon her bosom. "Thank
you kindly for these same good hours," said she, on a deep note of her voice.

The concern in which I fell instantly on this address, put me with the same swiftness on my
guard; and we were no sooner in the chamber, and the light made, than she beheld the old, dour,
stubborn countenance of the student of Heineccius. Doubtless she was more than usually hurt;
and I know for myself, I found it more than usually difficult to maintain my strangeness. Even
at the meal, I durst scarce unbuckle and scarce lift my eyes to her; and it was no sooner over
than I fell again to my civilian, with more seeming abstraction and less understanding than
before. Methought, as I-read, I could hear my heart strike like an eight-day clock. Hard as
I feigned to study, there was still some of my eyesight that spilled beyond the book upon Catriona.
She sat on the floor by the side of my great mail, and the chimney lighted her up, and shone
and blinked upon her, and made her glow and darken through a wonder of fine hues. Now she would
be gazing in the fire, and then again at me; and at that I would be plunged in a terror of
myself, and turn the pages of Heineccius like a man looking for the text in church.

Suddenly she called out aloud, "O, why does not my father come?" she cried, and fell at once
into a storm of tears.

I leaped up, flung Heineccius fairly into the fire, ran to her side, and cast an arm around
her sobbing body.

She put me from her sharply. "You do not love your friend," says she. "I could be so happy
too, if you would let me!" And then, "O, what will I have done that you should hate me so?"

"Hate you!" cries I, and held her firm. "You blind lass, can you not see a little in my wretched
heart? Do you think when I set there, reading in that fool-book that I have just burned and
be damned to it, I take ever the least thought of any stricken thing but just yourself? Night
after night I could have grat to see you sitting there your lone. And what was I to do? You
are here under my honour; would you punish me for that? Is it for that that you would spurn
a loving servant?"

At the word, with a small, sudden motion, she clung near to me. I raised her face to mine,
I kissed it, and she bowed her brow upon my bosom, clasping me tight. I sat in a mere whirl
like a man drunken. Then I heard her voice sound very small and muffled in my clothes.

"Did you kiss her truly?" she asked.

There went through me so great a heave of surprise that I was all shook with it.

"Miss Grant!" I cried, all in a disorder. "Yes, I asked her to kiss me good-bye, the which
she did."

"Ah, well!" said she, "you have kissed me too, at all events."

At the strangeness and sweetness of that word, I saw where we had fallen; rose, and set her
on her feet.

"This will never do," said I. "This will never, never do. O Catrine, Catrine!" Then there came
a pause in which I was debarred from any speaking. And then, "Go away to your bed," said I.
"Go away to your bed and leave me."

She turned to obey me like a little child, and the next I knew of it, had stopped in the very
doorway.

"Good night, Davie!" said she.

"And O, good night, my love!" I cried, with a great outbreak of my soul, and caught her to
me again, so that it seemed I must have broken her. The next moment I had thrust her from the
room, shut to the door even with violence, and stood alone.

The milk was spilt now, the word was out and the truth told. I had crept like an untrusty man
into the poor maid's affections; she was in my hand like any frail, innocent thing to make
or mar; and what weapon of defence was left me? It seemed like a symbol that Heinoccius, my
old protection, was now burned. I repented, yet could not find it in my heart to blame myself
for that great failure. It seemed not possible to have resisted the boldness of her innocence
or that last temptation of her weeping. And all that I had to excuse me did but make my sin
appear the greater--it was upon a nature so defenceless, and with such advantages of the position,
that I seemed to have practised.

What was to become of us now? It seemed we could no longer dwell in the one place. But where
was I to go? or where she? Without either choice or fault of ours, life had conspired to wall
us together in that narrow place. I had a wild thought of marrying out of hand; and the next
moment put it from me with revolt. She was a child, she could not tell her own heart; I had
surprised her weakness, I must never go on to build on that surprisal; I must keep her not
only clear of reproach, but free as she had come to me.

Down I sat before the fire, and reflected, and repented, and beat my brains in vain for any
means of escape. About two of the morning, there were three red embers left and the house and
all the city was asleep, when I was aware of a small sound of weeping in the next room. She
thought that I slept, the poor soul; she regretted her weakness--and what perhaps (God help
her!) she called her forwardness--and in the dead of the night solaced herself with tears.
Tender and bitter feelings, love and penitence and pity struggled in my soul; it seemed I was
under bond to heal that weeping.

"O, try to forgive me!" I cried out, "try, try to forgive me. Let us forget it all, let us
try if we'll no can forget it!"

There came no answer, but the sobbing ceased. I stood a long while with my hands still clasped
as I had spoken; then the cold of the night laid hold upon me with a shudder, and I think my
reason reawakened.

"You can make no hand of this, Davie," thinks I. "To bed with you like a wise lad, and try
if you can sleep. To-morrow you may see your way."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXV

THE RETURN OF JAMES MORE

I was called on the morrow out of a late and troubled slumber by a knocking on my door, ran
to open it, and had almost swooned with the contrariety of my feelings, mostly painful; for
on the threshold, in a rough wrapraseal and an extraordinary big laced hat, there stood James More.

I ought to have been glad perhaps without admixture, for there was a sense in which the man
came like an answer to prayer. I had been saying till my head was weary that Catriona and I
must separate, and looking till my head ached for any possible means of separation. Here were
the means come to me upon two legs, and joy was the hindmost of my thoughts. It is to be considered,
however, that even if the weight of the future were lifted off me by the man's arrival, the
present heaved up the more black and menacing; so that, as I first stood before him in my shirt
and breeches, I believe I took a leaping step backward like a person shot.

"Ah," said he, "I have found you, Mr. Balfour." And offered me his large, fine hand, the which
(recovering at the same time my post in the doorway, as if with some thought of resistance)
I took him by doubtfully. "It is a remarkable circumstance how our affairs appear to intermingle,"
he continued. "I am owing you an apology for an unfortunate intrusion upon yours, which I suffered
myself to be entrapped into by my confidence in that false-face, Prestongrange; I think shame
to own to you that I was ever trusting to a lawyer." He shrugged his shoulders with a very
French air. "But indeed the man is very plausible," says he. "And now it seems that you have
busied yourself handsomely in the matter of my daughter, for whose direction I was remitted
to yourself."

"I think, sir," said I, with a very painful air, "that it will be necessary we two should have
an explanation."

"There is nothing amiss?" he asked. "My agent, Mr. Sprott--"

"For God's sake moderate your voice!" I cried. "She must not hear till we have had an explanation."

"She is in this place?" cries he.

"That is her chamber door," said I.

"You are here with her alone?" he asked.

"And who else would I have got to stay with us?" cries I.

I will do him the justice to admit that he turned pale.

"This is very unusual," said he. "This is a very unusual circumstance. You are right, we must
hold an explanation."

So saying, he passed me by, and I must own the tall old rogue appeared at that moment extraordinary
dignified. He had now, for the first time, the view of my chamber, which I scanned (I may say)
with his eyes. A bit of morning sun glinted in by the window pane, and showed it off; my bed,
my mails, and washing dish, with some disorder of my clothes, and the unlighted chimney, made
the only plenishing; no mistake but it looked bare and cold, and the most unsuitable, beggarly
place conceivable to harbour a young lady. At the same time came in on my mind the recollection
of the clothes that I had bought for her; and I thought this contrast of poverty and prodigality
bore an ill appearance.

He looked all about the chamber for a seat, and finding nothing else to his purpose except
my bed, took a place upon the side of it; where, after I had closed the door, I could not very
well avoid joining him. For however this extraordinary interview might end, it must pass if
possible without waking Catriona; and the one thing needful was that we should sit close and
talk low. But I can scarce picture what a pair we made; he in his great coat which the coldness
of my chamber made extremely suitable; I shivering in my shirt and breeks; he with very much
the air of a judge; and I (whatever I looked) with very much the feelings of a man who has
heard the last trumpet.

"Well?" says he.

And "Well" I began, but found myself unable to go further.

"You tell me she is here?" said he again, but now with a spice of impatiency that seemed to
brace me up.

"She is in this house," said I, "and I knew the circumstance would be called unusual. But you
are to consider how very unusual the whole business was from the beginning. Here is a young
lady landed on the coast of Europe with two shillings and a penny halfpenny. She is directed
to yon man Sprott in Helvoet. I hear you call him your agent. All I can say is he could do
nothing but damn and swear at the mere mention of your name, and I must fee him out of my own
pocket even to receive the custody of her effects, You speak of unusual circumstances, Mr.
Drummond, if that be the name you prefer. Here was a circumstance, if you like, to which it
was barbarity to have exposed her."

"But this is what I cannot understand the least," said James. "My daughter was placed into
the charge of some responsible persons, whose names I have forgot."

"Gebbie was the name," said I; "and there is no doubt that Mr. Gebbie should have gone ashore
with her at Helvoet. But he did not, Mr. Drummond; and I think you might praise God that I
was there to offer in his place."

"I shall have a word to say to Mr. Gebbie before done," said he. "As for yourself, I think
it might have occurred that you were somewhat young for such a post."

"But the choice was not between me and somebody else, it was between me and nobody," I cried.
"Nobody offered in my place, and I must say I think you show a very small degree of gratitude
to me that did."

"I shall wait until I understand my obligation a little more in the particular," says he.

"Indeed, and I think it stares you in the face, then," said I. "Your child was deserted, she
was clean flung away in the midst of Europe, with scarce two shillings, and not two words of
any language spoken there: I must say, a bonny business! I brought her to this place. I gave
her the name and the tenderness due to a sister. All this has not gone without expense, but
that I scarce need to hint at. They were services due to the young lady's character which I
respect; and I think it would be a bonny business too, if I was to be singing her praises to
her father."

"You are a young man," he began.

"So I hear you tell me," said I, with a good deal of heat.

"You are a very young man," he repeated, "or you would have understood the significancy of
the step."

"I think you speak very much at your ease," cried I. "What else was I to do? It is a fact I
might have hired some decent, poor woman to be a third to us, and I declare I never thought
of it until this moment! But where was I to find her, that am a foreigner myself? And let me
point out to your observation, Mr. Drummond, that it would have cost me money out of my pocket.
For here is just what it comes to, that I had to pay through the nose for your neglect; and
there is only the one story to it, just that you were so unloving and so careless as to have
lost your daughter."

"He that lives in a glass house should not be casting stones," says he; "and we will finish
inquiring into the behaviour of Miss Drummond, before we go on to sit in judgment on her father."

"But I will be entrapped into no such attitude," said I. "The character of Miss Drummond is
far above inquiry, as her father ought to know. So is mine, and I am telling you that. There
are but the two ways of it open. The one is to express your thanks to me as one gentleman to
another, and to say no more. The other (if you are so difficult as to be still dissatisfied)
is to pay me that which I have expended and be done."

He seemed to soothe me with a hand in the air.

"There, there," said he. "You go too fast, you go too fast, Mr. Balfour. It is a good thing
that I have learned to be more patient. And I believe you forget that I have yet to see my
daughter."

I began to be a little relieved upon this speech and a change in the man's manner that I spied
in him as soon as the name of money fell between us.

"I was thinking it would be more fit--if you will excuse the plainness of my dressing in your
presence--that I should go forth and leave you to encounter her alone?" said I.

"What I would have looked for at your hands!" says he; and there was no mistake but what he
said it civilly.

I thought this better and better still, and as I began to pull on my hose, recalling the man's
impudent mendicancy at Prestongrange's, I determined to pursue what seemed to be my victory.

"If you have any mind to stay some while in Leyden," said I, "this room is very much at your
disposal, and I can easy find another for myself: in which way we shall have the least amount
of flitting possible, there being only one to change."

"Why, sir," said he, making his bosom big, "I think no shame of a poverty I have come by in
the service of my king; I make no secret that my affairs are quite involved; and for the moment,
it would be even impossible for me to undertake a journey."

"Until you have occasion to communicate with your friends," said I, "perhaps it might be convenient
for you (as of course it would be honourable to myself) if you were to regard yourself in the
light of my guest?"

"Sir," said he, "when an offer is frankly made, I think I honour myself most to imitate that
frankness. Your hand, Mr. David; you have the character that I respect the most; you are one
of those from whom a gentleman can take a favour and no more words about it. I am an old soldier,"
he went on, looking rather disgusted-like around my chamber, "and you need not fear I shall
prove burthensome. I have ate too often at a dyke-side, drank of the ditch, and had no roof
but the rain."

"I should be telling you," said I, "that our breakfasts are sent customarily in about this
time of morning. I propose I should go now to the tavern, and bid them add a cover for yourself
and delay the meal the matter of an hour, which will give you an interval to meet your daughter
in."

Methought his nostrils wagged at this. "O, an hour," says he. "That is perhaps superfluous.
Half an hour, Mr. David, or say twenty minutes; I shall do very well in that. And by the way,"
he adds, detaining me by the coat, "what is it you drink in the morning, whether ale or wine?"

"To be frank with you, sir," says I, "I drink nothing else but spare, cold water?"

"Tut-tut," says he, "that is fair destruction to the stomach, take an old campaigner's word
for it. Our country spirit at home is perhaps the most entirely wholesome; but as that is not
come-at-able, Rhenish or a white wine of Burgundy will be next best."

"I shall make it my business to see you are supplied," said I.

"Why, very good," said he, "and we shall make a man of you yet, Mr. David."

By this time, I can hardly say that I was minding him at all, beyond an odd thought of the
kind of father-in-law that he was like to prove; and all my cares centred about the lass his
daughter, to whom I determined to convey some warning of her visitor. I stepped to the door
accordingly, and cried through the panels, knocking thereon at the same time: "Miss Drummond,
here is your father come at last."

With that I went forth upon my errand, having (by two words) extraordinarily damaged my affairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXVI

THE THREESOME

Whether or not I was to be so much blamed, or rather perhaps pitied, I must leave others to
judge of. My shrewdness (of which I have a good deal, too) seems not so great with the ladies.
No doubt, at the moment when I awaked her, I was thinking a good deal of the effect upon James
More; and similarly when I returned and we were all sat down to breakfast, I continued to behave
to the young lady with deference and distance; as I still think to have been most wise. Her
father had cast doubts upon the innocence of my friendship; and these, it was my first business
to allay. But there is a kind of an excuse for Catriona also. We had shared in a scene of some
tenderness and passion, and given and received caresses; I had thrust her from me with violence;
I had called aloud upon her in the night from the one room to the other; she had passed hours
of wakefulness and weeping; and it is not to be supposed I had been absent from her pillow
thoughts. Upon the back of this, to be awaked, with unaccustomed formality, under the name
of Miss Drummond, and to be thenceforth used with a great deal of distance and respect, led
her entirely in error on my private sentiments; and she was indeed so incredibly abused as
to imagine me repentant and trying to draw off!

The trouble betwixt us seems to have been this: that whereas I (since I had first set eyes
on his great hat) thought singly of James More, his return and suspicions, she made so little
of these that I may say she scarce remarked them, and all her troubles and doings regarded
what had passed between us in the night before. This is partly to be explained by the innocence
and boldness of her character; and partly because James More, having sped so ill in his interview
with me, or had his mouth closed by my invitation, said no word to her upon the subject. At
the breakfast, accordingly, it soon appeared we were at cross purposes. I had looked to find
her in clothes of her own: I found her (as if her father were forgotten) wearing some of the
best that I had bought for her and which she knew (or thought) that I admired her in. I had
looked to find her imitate my affectation of distance, and be most precise and formal; instead
I found her flushed and wild-like, with eyes extraordinary bright, and a painful and varying
expression, calling me by name with a sort of appeal of tenderness, and referring and deferring
to my thoughts and wishes like an anxious or a suspected wife.

But this was not for long. As I beheld her so regardless of her own interests, which I had
jeopardised and was now endeavoring to recover, I redoubled my own boldness in the manner of
a lesson to the girl. The more she came forward, the further I drew back; the more she betrayed
the closeness of our intimacy, the more pointedly civil I became, until even her father (if
he had not been so engrossed with eating) might have observed the opposition. In the midst
of which, of a sudden, she became wholly changed, and I told myself, with a good deal of relief,
that she had took the hint at last.

All day I was at my classes or in quest of my new lodging; and though the hour of our customary
walk hung miserably on my hands, I cannot say but I was happy on the whole to find my way cleared,
the girl again in proper keeping, the father satisfied or at least acquiescent, and myself
free to prosecute my love with honour. At supper, as at all our meals, it was James More that
did the talking. No doubt but he talked well, if anyone could have believed him. But I will
speak of him presently more at large. The meal at an end, he rose, got his great coat, and
looking (as I thought) at me, observed he had affairs abroad. I took this for a hint that I
was to be going also, and got up; whereupon the girl, who had scarce given me greeting at my
entrance, turned her eyes on me wide open, with a look that bade me stay. I stood between them
like a fish out of water, turning from one to the other; neither seemed to observe me, she
gazing on the floor, he buttoning his coat: which vastly swelled my embarrassment. This appearance
of indifferency argued, upon her side, a good deal of anger very near to burst out. Upon his,
I thought it horribly alarming; I made sure there was a tempest brewing there; and considering
that to be the chief peril, turned towards him and put myself (so to speak) in the man's hands.

"Can I do anything for you, Mr. Drummond?" says I.

He stifled a yawn, which again I thought to be duplicity. "Why, Mr. David," said he, "since
you are so obliging as to propose it, you might show me the way to a certain tavern" (of which
he gave the name) "where I hope to fall in with some old companions in arms."

There was no more to say, and I got my hat and cloak to bear him company.

"And as for you," he says to his daughter, "you had best go to your bed. I shall be late home,
and Early to bed and early to rise, gars bonny lasses have bright eyes."

Whereupon he kissed her with a good deal of tenderness, and ushered me before him from the
door. This was so done (I thought on purpose) that it was scarce possible there should be any
parting salutation; but I observed she did not look at me, and set it down to terror of James More.

It was some distance to that tavern. He talked all the way of matters which did not interest
me the smallest, and at the door dismissed me with empty manners. Thence I walked to my new
lodging, where I had not so much as a chimney to hold me warm, and no society but my own thoughts.
These were still bright enough; I did not so much as dream that Catriona was turned against
me; I thought we were like folk pledged; I thought we had been too near and spoke too warmly
to be severed, least of all by what were only steps in a most needful policy. And the chief
of my concern was only the kind of father-in-law that I was getting, which was not at all the
kind I would have chosen: and the matter of how soon I ought to speak to him, which was a delicate
point on several sides. In the first place, when I thought how young I was, I blushed all over,
and could almost have found it in my heart to have desisted; only that if once I let them go
from Leyden without explanation, I might lose her altogether. And in the second place, there
was our very irregular situation to be kept in view, and the rather scant measure of satisfaction
I had given James More that morning. I concluded, on the whole, that delay would not hurt anything,
yet I would not delay too long neither; and got to my cold bed with a full heart.

The next day, as James More seemed a little on the complaining hand in the matter of my chamber,
I offered to have in more furniture; and coming in the afternoon, with porters bringing chairs
and tables, found the girl once more left to herself. She greeted me on my admission civilly,
but withdrew at once to her own room, of which she shut the door. I made my disposition, and
paid and dismissed the men so that she might hear them go, when I supposed she would at once
come forth again to speak to me. I waited yet awhile, then knocked upon her door.

"Catriona!" said I.

The door was opened so quickly, even before I had the word out, that I thought she must have
stood behind it listening. She remained there in the interval quite still; but she had a look
that I cannot put a name on, as of one in a bitter trouble.

"Are we not to have our walk to-day either?" so I faltered.

"I am thanking you," said she. "I will not be caring much to walk, now that my father is come
home."

"But I think he has gone out himself and left you here alone," said I.

"And do you think that was very kindly said?" she asked.

"It was not unkindly meant," I replied. "What ails you, Catriona? What have I done to you that
you should turn from me like this?"

"I do not turn from you at all," she said, speaking very carefully. "I will ever be grateful
to my friend that was good to me; I will ever be his friend in all that I am able. But now
that my father James More is come again, there is a difference to be made, and I think there
are some things said and done that would be better to be forgotten. But I will ever be your
friend in all that I am able, and if that is not all that . . . if it is not so much. . . .
Not that you will be caring! But I would not have you think of me too hard. It was true what
you said to me, that I was too young to be advised, and I am hoping you will remember I was
just a child. I would not like to lose your friendship, at all events."

She began this very pale; but before she was done, the blood was in her face like scarlet,
so that not her words only, but her face and the trembling of her very hands, besought me to
be gentle. I saw for the first time, how very wrong I had done to place the child in that position,
where she had been entrapped into a moment's weakness, and now stood before me like a person
shamed.

"Miss Drummond," I said, and stuck, and made the same beginning once again, "I wish you could
see into my heart," I cried. "You would read there that my respect is undiminished. If that
were possible, I should say it was increased. This is but the result of the mistake we made;
and had to come; and the less said of it now the better. Of all of our life here, I promise
you it shall never pass my lips; I would like to promise you too that I would never think of
it, but it's a memory that will be always dear to me. And as for a friend, you have one here
that would die for you."

"I am thanking you," said she.

We stood awhile silent, and my sorrow for myself began to get the upper hand; for here were
all my dreams come to a sad tumble, and my love lost, and myself alone again in the world as
at the beginning.

"Well," said I, "we shall be friends always, that's a certain thing. But this is a kind of
a farewell too: it's a kind of a farewell after all; I shall always ken Miss Drummond, but
this is a farewell to my Catriona."

I looked at her; I could hardly say I saw her, but she seemed to grow great and brighten in
my eyes; and with that I suppose I must have lost my head, for I called out her name again
and made a step at her with my hands reached forth.

She shrank back like a person struck, her face flamed; but the blood sprang no faster up into
her cheeks, than what it flowed back upon my own heart, at sight of it, with penitence and
concern. I found no words to excuse myself, but bowed before her very deep, and went my ways
out of the house with death in my bosom.

I think it was about five days that followed without any change. I saw her scarce ever but
at meals, and then of course in the company of James More. If we were alone even for a moment,
I made it my devoir to behave the more distantly and to multiply respectful attentions, having
always in my mind's eye that picture of the girl shrinking and flaming in a blush, and in my
heart more pity for her than I could depict in words. I was sorry enough for myself, I need
not dwell on that, having fallen all my length and more than all my height in a few seconds;
but, indeed, I was near as sorry for the girl, and sorry enough to be scarce angry with her
save by fits and starts. Her plea was good: she was but a child; she had been placed in an
unfair position; if she had deceived herself and me, it was no more than was to have been looked
for.

And for another thing she was now very much alone. Her father, when he was by, was rather a
caressing parent; but he was very easy led away by his affairs and pleasures, neglected her
without compunction or remark, spent his nights in taverns when he had the money, which was
more often than I could at all account for; and even in the course of these few days, failed
once to come to a meal, which Catriona and I were at last compelled to partake of without him.
It was the evening meal, and I left immediately that I had eaten, observing I supposed she
would prefer to be alone; to which she agreed and (strange as it may seem) I quite believed
her. Indeed, I thought myself but an eyesore to the girl, and a reminder of a moment's weakness
that she now abhorred to think of. So she must sit alone in that room where she and I had been
so merry, and in the blink of that chimney whose light had shone upon our many difficult and
tender moments. There she must sit alone, and think of herself as of a maid who had most unmaidenly
proffered her affections and had the same rejected. And in the meanwhile I would be alone some
other place, and reading myself (whenever I was tempted to be angry) lessons upon human frailty
and female delicacy. And altogether I suppose there were never two poor fools made themselves
more unhappy in a greater misconception.

As for James, he paid not so much heed to us, or to anything in nature but his pocket, and
his belly, and his own prating talk. Before twelve hours were gone he had raised a small loan
of me; before thirty, he had asked for a second and been refused. Money and refusal he took
with the same kind of high good-nature. Indeed, he had an outside air of magnanimity that was
very well fitted to impose upon a daughter; and the light in which he was constantly presented
in his talk, and the man's fine presence and great ways went together pretty harmoniously.
So that a man that had no business with him, and either very little penetration or a furious
deal of prejudice, might almost have been taken in. To me, after my first two interviews, he
was as plain as print; I saw him to be perfectly selfish, with a perfect innocency in the same;
and I would harken to his swaggering talk (of arms, and "an old soldier," and "a poor Highland
gentleman," and "the strength of my country and my friends") as I might to the babbling of
a parrot.

The odd thing was that I fancy he believed some part of it himself, or did at times; I think
he was so false all through that he scarce knew when he was lying; and for one thing, his moments
of dejection must have been wholly genuine. There were times when he would be the most silent,
affectionate, clinging creature possible, holding Catriona's hand like a big baby, and begging
of me not to leave if I had any love to him; of which, indeed, I had none, but all the more
to his daughter. He would press and indeed beseech us to entertain him with our talk, a thing
very difficult in the state of our relations; and again break forth in pitiable regrets for
his own land and friends, or into Gaelic singing.

"This is one of the melancholy airs of my native land," he would say. "You may think it strange
to see a soldier weep, and indeed it is to make a near friend of you," says he. "But the notes
of this singing are in my blood, and the words come out of my heart. And when I mind upon my
red mountains and the wild birds calling there, and the brave streams of water running down,
I would scarce think shame to weep before my enemies." Then he would sing again, and translate
to me pieces of the song, with a great deal of boggling and much expressed contempt against
the English language. "It says here," he would say, "that the sun is gone down, and the battle
is at an end, and the brave chiefs are defeated. And it tells here how the stars see them fleeing
into strange countries or lying dead on the red mountain; and they will never more shout the
call of battle or wash their feet in the streams of the valley. But if you had only some of
this language, you would weep also because the words of it are beyond all expression, and it
is mere mockery to tell you it in English."

Well, I thought there was a good deal of mockery in the business, one way and another; and
yet, there was some feeling too, for which I hated him, I think, the worst of all. And it used
to cut me to the quick to see Catriona so much concerned for the old rogue, and weeping herself
to see him weep, when I was sure one-half of his distress flowed from his last night's drinking
in some tavern. There were times when I was tempted to lend him a round sum, and see the last
of him for good; but this would have been to see the last of Catriona as well, for which I
was scarcely so prepared; and besides, it went against my conscience to squander my good money
on one who was so little of a husband.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXVII

A TWOSOME

I believe it was about the fifth day, and I know at least that James was in one of his fits
of gloom, when I received three letters. The first was from Alan, offering to visit me in Leyden;
the other two were out of Scotland and prompted by the same affair, which was the death of
my uncle and my own complete accession to my rights. Rankeillor's was, of course, wholly in
the business view; Miss Grant's was like herself, a little more witty than wise, full of blame
to me for not having written (though how was I to write with such intelligence?) and of rallying
talk about Catriona, which it cut me to the quick to read in her very presence.

For it was of course in my own rooms that I found them, when I came to dinner, so that I was
surprised out of my news in the very first moment of reading it. This made a welcome diversion
for all three of us, nor could any have foreseen the ill consequences that ensued. It was accident
that brought the three letters the same day, and that gave them into my hand in the same room
with James More; and of all the events that flowed from that accident, and which I might have
prevented if I had held my tongue, the truth is that they were preordained before Agricola
came into Scotland or Abraham set out upon his travels.

The first that I opened was naturally Alan's; and what more natural than that I should comment
on his design to visit me? but I observed James to sit up with an air of immediate attention.

"Is that not Alan Breck that was suspected of the Appin accident?" he inquired.

I told him, "Ay," it was the same; and he withheld me some time from my other letters, asking
of our acquaintance, of Alan's manner of life in France, of which I knew very little, and further
of his visit as now proposed.

"All we forfeited folk hang a little together," he explained, "and besides I know the gentleman:
and though his descent is not the thing, and indeed he has no true right to use the name of
Stewart, he was very much admired in the day of Drummossie. He did there like a soldier; if
some that need not be named had done as well, the upshot need not have been so melancholy to
remember. There were two that did their best that day, and it makes a bond between the pair
of us," says he.

I could scarce refrain from shooting out my tongue at him, and could almost have wished that
Alan had been there to have inquired a little further into that mention of his birth. Though,
they tell me, the same was indeed not wholly regular.

Meanwhile, I had opened Miss Grant's, and could not withhold an exclamation.

"Catriona," I cried, forgetting, the first time since her father was arrived, to address her
by a handle, "I am come into my kingdom fairly, I am the laird of Shaws indeed--my uncle is
dead at last."

She clapped her hands together leaping from her seat. The next moment it must have come over
both of us at once what little cause of joy was left to either, and we stood opposite, staring
on each other sadly.

But James showed himself a ready hypocrite. "My daughter," says he, "is this how my cousin
learned you to behave? Mr. David has lost a near friend, and we should first condole with him
on his bereavement."

"Troth, sir," said I, turning to him in a kind of anger, "I can make no such faces. His death
is as blythe news as ever I got."

"It's a good soldier's philosophy," says James. "'Tis the way of flesh, we must all go, all
go. And if the gentleman was so far from your favour, why, very well! But we may at least congratulate
you on your accession to your estates."

"Nor can I say that either," I replied, with the same heat. "It is a good estate; what matters
that to a lone man that has enough already? I had a good revenue before in my frugality; and
but for the man's death--which gratifies me, shame to me that must confess it!--I see not how
anyone is to be bettered by this change."

"Come, come," said he, "you are more affected than you let on, or you would never make yourself
out so lonely. Here are three letters; that means three that wish you well; and I could name
two more, here in this very chamber. I have known you not so very long, but Catriona, when
we are alone, is never done with the singing of your praises."

She looked up at him, a little wild at that; and he slid off at once into another matter, the
extent of my estate, which (during the most of the dinner time) he continued to dwell upon
with interest. But it was to no purpose he dissembled; he had touched the matter with too gross
a hand: and I knew what to expect. Dinner was scarce ate when he plainly discovered his designs.
He reminded Catriona of an errand, and bid her attend to it. "I do not see you should be gone
beyond the hour," he added, "and friend David will be good enough to bear me company till you
return." She made haste to obey him without words. I do not know if she understood, I believe
not; but I was completely satisfied, and sat strengthening my mind for what should follow.

The door had scarce closed behind her departure, when the man leaned back in his chair and
addressed me with a good affectation of easiness. Only the one thing betrayed him and that
was his face; which suddenly shone all over with fine points of sweat.

"I am rather glad to have a word alone with you," says he, "because in our first interview
there were some expressions you misapprehended and I have long meant to set you right upon.
My daughter stands beyond doubt. So do you, and I would make that good with my sword against
all gainsayers. But, my dear David, this world is a censorious place--as who should know it
better than myself, who have lived ever since the days of my late departed father, God sain
him! in a perfect spate of calumnies? We have to face to that; you and me have to consider
of that; we have to consider of that." And he wagged his head like a minister in a pulpit.

"To what effect, Mr. Drummond?" said I. "I would be obliged to you if you would approach your
point."

"Ay, ay," says he, laughing, "like your character indeed! and what I most admire in it. But
the point, my worthy fellow, is sometimes in a kittle bit." He filled a glass of wine. "Though
between you and me, that are such fast friends, it need not bother us long. The point, I need
scarcely tell you, is my daughter. And the first thing is that I have no thought in my mind
of blaming you. In the unfortunate circumstances, what could you do else? 'Deed, and I cannot
tell."

"I thank you for that," said I, pretty close upon my guard.

"I have besides studied your character," he went on; "your talents are fair; you seem to have
a moderate competence; which does no harm; and one thing with another, I am very happy to have
to announce to you that I have decided on the latter of the two ways open."

"I am afraid I am dull," said I. "What ways are these?"

He bent his brows upon me formidably and uncrossed his legs. "Why, sir," says he, "I think
I need scarce describe them to a gentleman of your condition; either that I should cut your
throat or that you should marry my daughter."

"You are pleased to be quite plain at last," said I.

"And I believe I have been plain from the beginning!" cries he robustiously. "I am a careful
parent, Mr. Balfour; but I thank God, a patient and deleeberate man. There is many a father,
sir, that would have hirsled you at once either to the altar or the field. My esteem for your
character--"

"Mr. Drummond," I interrupted, "if you have any esteem for me at all, I will beg of you to
moderate your voice. It is quite needless to rowt at a gentleman in the same chamber with yourself
and lending you his best attention."

"Why, very true," says he, with an immediate change. "And you must excuse the agitations of
a parent."

"I understand you then," I continued--"for I will take no note of your other alternative, which
perhaps it was a pity you let fall--I understand you rather to offer me encouragement in case
I should desire to apply for your daughter's hand?"

"It is not possible to express my meaning better," said he, "and I see we shall do well together."

"That remains to be yet seen," said I. "But so much I need make no secret of, that I bear the
lady you refer to the most tender affection, and I could not fancy, even in a dream, a better
fortune than to get her."

"I was sure of it, I felt certain of you, David," he cried, and reached out his hand to me.

I put it by. "You go too fast, Mr. Drummond," said I. "There are conditions to be made; and
there is a difficulty in the path, which I see not entirely how we shall come over. I have
told you that, upon my side, there is no objection to the marriage, but I have good reason
to believe there will be much on the young lady's."

"This is all beside the mark," says he. "I will engage for her acceptance."

"I think you forget, Mr. Drummond," said I, "that, even in dealing with myself you have been
betrayed into two-three unpalatable expressions. I will have none such employed to the young
lady. I am here to speak and think for the two of us; and I give you to understand that I would
no more let a wife be forced upon myself, than what I would let a husband be forced on the
young lady."

He sat and glowered at me like one in doubt and a good deal of temper.

"So that this is to be the way of it," I concluded. "I will marry Miss Drummond, and that blythely,
if she is entirely willing. But if there be the least unwillingness, as I have reason to fear--marry
her will I never."

"Well, well," said he, "this is a small affair. As soon as she returns I will sound her a bit,
and hope to reassure you----"

But I cut in again. "Not a finger of you, Mr. Drummond, or I cry off, and you can seek a husband
to your daughter somewhere else," said I. "It is I that am to be the only dealer and the only
judge. I shall satisfy myself exactly; and none else shall anyways meddle--you the least of all."

"Upon my word, sir!" he exclaimed, "and who are you to be the judge?"

"The bridegroom, I believe," said I.

"This is to quibble," he cried. "You turn your back upon the facts. The girl, my daughter,
has no choice left to exercise. Her character is gone."

"And I ask your pardon," said I, "but while this matter lies between her and you and me, that
is not so."

"What security have I!" he cried. "Am I to let my daughter's reputation depend upon a chance?"

"You should have thought of all this long ago," said I, "before you were so misguided as to
lose her; and not afterwards, when it is quite too late. I refuse to regard myself as any way
accountable for your neglect, and I will be browbeat by no man living. My mind is quite made
up, and come what may, I will not depart from it a hair's breadth. You and me are to sit here
in company till her return; upon which, without either word or look from you, she and I are
to go forth again to hold our talk. If she can satisfy me that she is willing to this step,
I will then make it; and if she cannot, I will not."

He leaped out of his seat like a man stung. "I can spy your manoeuvre," he cried; "you would
work upon her to refuse!"

"Maybe ay, and maybe no," said I. "That is the way it is to be, whatever."

"And if I refuse?" cries he.

"Then, Mr. Drummond, it will have to come to the throat-cutting," said I.

What with the size of the man, his great length of arm in which he came near rivalling his
father, and his reputed skill at weapons, I did not use this word without some trepidation,
to say nothing at all of the circumstance that he was Catriona's father. But I might have spared
myself alarms. From the poorness of my lodging--he does not seem to have remarked his daughter's
dresses, which were indeed all equally new to him--and from the fact that I had shown myself
averse to lend, he had embraced a strong idea of my poverty. The sudden news of my estate convinced
him of his error, and he had made but the one bound of it on this fresh venture, to which he
was now so wedded, that I believe he would have suffered anything rather than fall to the alternative
of fighting.

A little while longer he continued to dispute with me until I hit upon a word that silenced him.

"If I find you so averse to let me see the lady by herself," said I, "I must suppose you have
very good grounds to think me in the right about her unwillingness."

He gabbled some kind of an excuse.

"But all this is very exhausting to both of our tempers," I added, "and I think we would do
better to preserve a judicious silence."

The which we did until the girl returned, and I must suppose would have cut a very ridiculous
figure, had there been any there to view us.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXVIII

IN WHICH I AM LEFT ALONE

I opened the door to Catriona and stopped her on the threshold.

"Your father wishes us to take our walk," said I.

She looked to James More, who nodded, and at that, like a trained soldier, she turned to go
with me.

We took one of our old ways, where we had gone often together, and been more happy than I can
tell of in the past. I came a half a step behind, so that I could watch her unobserved. The
knocking of her little shoes upon the way sounded extraordinary pretty and sad; and I thought
it a strange moment that I should be so near both ends of it at once, and walk in the midst
between two destinies, and could not tell whether I was hearing these steps for the last time,
or whether the sound of them was to go in and out with me till death should part us.

She avoided even to look at me, only walked before her, like one who had a guess of what was
coming. I saw I must speak soon before my courage was run out, but where to begin I knew not.
In this painful situation, when the girl was as good as forced into my arms and had already
besought my forbearance, any excess of pressure must have seemed indecent; yet to avoid it
wholly would have a very cold-like appearance. Between these extremes I stood helpless, and
could have bit my fingers; so that, when at last I managed to speak at all, it may be said
I spoke at random.

"Catriona," said I, "I am in a very painful situation; or rather, so we are both; and I would
be a good deal obliged to you if you would promise to let me speak through first of all, and
not to interrupt till I have done."

She promised me that simply.

"Well," said I, "this that I have got to say is very difficult, and I know very well I have
no right to be saying it. After what passed between the two of us last Friday, I have no manner
of right. We have got so ravelled up (and all by my fault) that I know very well the least
I could do is just to hold my tongue, which was what I intended fully, and there was nothing
further from my thoughts than to have troubled you again. But, my dear, it has become merely
necessary, and no way by it. You see, this estate of mine has fallen in, which makes me rather
a better match; and the--the business would not have quite the same ridiculous-like appearance
that it would before. Besides which, it's supposed that our affairs have got so much ravelled
up (as I was saying) that it would be better to let them be the way they are. In my view, this
part of the thing is vastly exaggerate, and if I were you I would not wear two thoughts on
it. Only it's right I should mention the same, because there's no doubt it has some influence
on James More. Then I think we were none so unhappy when we dwelt together in this town before.
I think we did pretty well together. If you would look back, my dear--"

"I will look neither back nor forward," she interrupted. "Tell me the one thing: this is my
father's doing?"

"He approves of it," said I. "He approved that I should ask your hand in marriage," and was
going on again with somewhat more of an appeal upon her feelings; but she marked me not, and
struck into the midst.

"He told you to!" she cried. "It is no sense denying it, you said yourself that there was nothing
farther from your thoughts. He told you to."

"He spoke of it the first, if that is what you mean," I began.

She was walking ever the faster, and looking fair in front of her; but at this she made a little
noise in her head, and I thought she would have run.

"Without which," I went on, "after what you said last Friday, I would never have been so troublesome
as make the offer. But when he as good as asked me, what was I to do?"

She stopped and turned round upon me.

"Well, it is refused at all events," she cried, "and there will be an end of that."

And she began to walk forward.

"I suppose I could expect no better," said I, "but I think you might try to be a little kind
to me for the last end of it. I see not why you should be harsh. I have loved you very well,
Catriona--no harm that I should call you so for the last time. I have done the best that I
could manage, I am trying the same still, and only vexed that I can do no better. It is a strange
thing to me that you can take any pleasure to be hard to me."

"I am not thinking of you," she said, "I am thinking of that man, my father."

"Well, and that way, too!" said I. "I can be of use to you that way, too; I will have to be.
It is very needful, my dear, that we should consult about your father; for the way this talk
has gone, an angry man will be James More."

She stopped again. "It is because I am disgraced?" she asked.

"That is what he is thinking," I replied, "but I have told you already to make nought of it."

"It will be all one to me," she cried. "I prefer to be disgraced!"

I did not know very well what to answer, and stood silent.

There seemed to be something working in her bosom after that last cry; presently she broke
out, "And what is the meaning of all this? Why is all this shame loundered on my head? How
could you dare it, David Balfour?"

"My dear," said I, "what else was I to do?"

"I am not your dear," she said, "and I defy you to be calling me these words."

"I am not thinking of my words," said I. "My heart bleeds for you, Miss Drummond. Whatever
I may say, be sure you have my pity in your difficult position. But there is just the one thing
that I wish you would bear in view, if it was only long enough to discuss it quietly; for there
is going to be a collieshangie when we two get home. Take my word for it, it will need the
two of us to make this matter end in peace."

"Ay," said she. There sprang a patch of red in either of her cheeks. "Was he for fighting you?"
said she.

"Well, he was that," said I.

She gave a dreadful kind of laugh. "At all events, it is complete!" she cried. And then turning
on me: "My father and I are a fine pair," she said, "but I am thanking the good God there will
be somebody worse than what we are. I am thanking the good God that he has let me see you so.
There will never be the girl made that would not scorn you."

I had borne a good deal pretty patiently, but this was over the mark.

"You have no right to speak to me like that," said I. "What have I done but to be good to you,
or try to? And here is my repayment! O, it is too much."

She kept looking at me with a hateful smile. "Coward!" said she.

"The word in your throat and in your father's!" I cried. "I have dared him this day already
in your interest. I will dare him again, the nasty pole-cat; little I care which of us should
fall! Come," said I, "back to the house with us; let us be done with it, let me be done with
the whole Hieland crew of you! You will see what you think when I am dead."

She shook her head at me with that same smile I could have struck her for.

"O, smile away!" I cried. "I have seen your bonny father smile on the wrong side this day.
Not that I mean he was afraid, of course," I added hastily, "but he preferred the other way of it."

"What is this?" she asked.

"When I offered to draw with him," said I.

"You offered to draw upon James More?" she cried.

"And I did so," said I, "and found him backward enough, or how would we be here?"

"There is a meaning upon this," said she. "What is it you are meaning?"

"He was to make you take me," I replied, "and I would not have it. I said you should be free,
and I must speak with you alone; little I supposed it would be such a speaking! 'And what if
I refuse?' says he.--'Then it must come to the throat cutting,' says I, 'for I will no more
have a husband forced on that young lady than what I would have a wife forced upon myself.'
These were my words, they were a friend's words; bonnily have I been paid for them! Now you
have refused me of your own clear free will, and there lives no father in the Highlands, or
out of them, that can force on this marriage. I will see that your wishes are respected; I
will make the same my business, as I have all through. But I think you might have that decency
as to affect some gratitude. 'Deed, and I thought you knew me better! I have not behaved quite
well to you, but that was weakness. And to think me a coward and such a coward as that--O,
my lass, there was a stab for the last of it!"

"Davie, how would I guess?" she cried. "O, this is a dreadful business! Me and mine,"--she
gave a kind of wretched cry at the word--"me and mine are not fit to speak to you. O, I could
be kneeling down to you in the street, I could be kissing your hands for your forgiveness!"

"I will keep the kisses I have got from you already," cried I. "I will keep the ones I wanted
and that were something worth; I will not be kissed in penitence."

"What can you be thinking of this miserable girl?" says she.

"What I am trying to tell you all this while!" said I, "that you had best leave me alone, whom
you can make no more unhappy if you tried, and turn your attention to James More, your father,
with whom you are like to have a queer pirn to wind."

"O, that I must be going out into the world alone with such a man!" she cried, and seemed to
catch herself in with a great effort. "But trouble yourself no more for that," said she. "He
does not know what kind of nature is in my heart. He will pay me dear for this day of it; dear,
dear, will he pay."

She turned, and began to go home and I to accompany her. At which she stopped.

"I will be going alone," she said. "It is alone I must be seeing him."

Some little while I raged about the streets, and told myself I was the worst used lad in Christendom.
Anger choked me; it was all very well for me to breathe deep; it seemed there was not air enough
about Leyden to supply me, and I thought I would have burst like a man at the bottom of the
sea. I stopped and laughed at myself at a street corner a minute together, laughing out loud,
so that a passenger looked at me, which brought me to myself.

"Well," I thought, "I have been a gull and a ninny and a soft Tommy long enough. Time it was
done. Here is a good lesson to have nothing to do with that accursed sex, that was the ruin
of the man in the beginning and will be so to the end. God knows I was happy enough before
ever I saw her; God knows I can be happy enough again when I have seen the last of her."

That seemed to me the chief affair: to see them go. I dwelled upon the idea fiercely; and presently
slipped on, in a kind of malevolence, to consider how very poorly they were like to fare when
Davie Balfour was no longer by to be their milk-cow; at which, to my own very great surprise,
the disposition of my mind turned bottom up. I was still angry; I still hated her; and yet
I thought I owed it to myself that she should suffer nothing.

This carried me home again at once, where I found the mails drawn out and ready fastened by
the door, and the father and daughter with every mark upon them of a recent disagreement. Catriona
was like a wooden doll; James More breathed hard, his face was dotted with white spots, and
his nose upon one side. As soon as I came in, the girl looked at him with a steady, clear,
dark look that might very well have been followed by a blow. It was a hint that was more contemptuous
than a command, and I was surprised to see James More accept it. It was plain he had had a
master talking-to; and I could see there must be more of the devil in the girl than I had guessed,
and more good-humor about the man than I had given him the credit of.

He began, at least, calling me Mr. Balfour, and plainly speaking from a lesson; but he got
not very far, for at the first pompous swell of his voice, Catriona cut in.

"I will tell you what James More is meaning," said she. "He means we have come to you, beggar-folk,
and have not behaved to you very well, and we are ashamed of our ingratitude and ill-behaviour.
Now we are wanting to go away and be forgotten; and my father will have guided his gear so
ill, that we cannot even do that unless you will give us some more alms. For that is what we
are, at all events, beggar-folk and sorners."

"By your leave, Miss Drummond," said I, "I must speak to your father by myself."

She went into her own room and shut the door, without a word or a look.

"You must excuse her, Mr. Balfour," says James More. "She has no delicacy."

"I am not here to discuss that with you," said I, "but to be quit of you. And to that end I
must talk of your position. Now, Mr. Drummond, I have kept the run of your affairs more closely
than you bargained for. I know you had money of your own when you were borrowing mine. I know
you have had more since you were here in Leyden, though you concealed it even from your daughter."

"I bid you beware. I will stand no more baiting," he broke out. "I am sick of her and you.
What kind of a damned trade is this to be a parent! I have had expressions used to me----"
There he broke off. "Sir, this is the heart of a soldier and a parent," he went on again, laying
his hand on his bosom, "outraged in both characters--and I bid you beware."

"If you would have let me finish," says I, "you would have found I spoke for your advantage."

"My dear friend," he cried, "I know I might have relied upon the generosity of your character."

"Man! will you let me speak?" said I. "The fact is that I cannot win to find out if you are
rich or poor. But it is my idea that your means, as they are mysterious in their source, so
they are something insufficient in amount; and I do not choose your daughter to be lacking.
If I durst speak to herself, you may be certain I would never dream of trusting it to you;
because I know you like the back of my hand, and all your blustering talk is that much wind
to me. However, I believe in your way you do still care something for your daughter after all;
and I must just be doing with that ground of confidence, such as it is."

Whereupon, I arranged with him that he was to communicate with me, as to his whereabouts and
Catriona's welfare, in consideration of which I was to serve him a small stipend.

He heard the business out with a great deal of eagerness; and when it was done, "My dear fellow,
my dear son," he cried out, "this is more like yourself than any of it yet! I will serve you
with a soldier's faithfulness----"

"Let me hear no more of it!" says I. "You have got me to that pitch that the bare name of soldier
rises on my stomach. Our traffic is settled; I am now going forth and will return in one half-hour,
when I expect to find my chambers purged of you."

I gave them good measure of time; it was my one fear that I might see Catriona again, because
tears and weakness were ready in my heart, and I cherished my anger like a piece of dignity.
Perhaps an hour went by; the sun had gone down, a little wisp of a new moon was following it
across a scarlet sunset; already there were stars in the east, and in my chambers, when at
last I entered them, the night lay blue. I lit a taper and reviewed the rooms; in the first
there remained nothing so much as to awake a memory of those who were gone; but in the second,
in a corner of the floor, I spied a little heap that brought my heart into my mouth. She had
left behind at her departure all that ever she had of me. It was the blow that I felt sorest,
perhaps because it was the last; and I fell upon that pile of clothing and behaved myself more
foolish than I care to tell of.

Late in the night, in a strict frost, and my teeth chattering, I came again by some portion
of my manhood and considered with myself. The sight of these poor frocks and ribbons, and her
shifts, and the clocked stockings, was not to be endured; and if I were to recover any constancy
of mind, I saw I must be rid of them ere the morning. It was my first thought to have made
a fire and burned them; but my disposition has always been opposed to wastery, for one thing;
and for another, to have burned these things that she had worn so close upon her body, seemed
in the nature of a cruelty. There was a corner cupboard in that chamber; there I determined
to bestow them. The which I did and made it a long business, folding them with very little
skill indeed but the more care; and sometimes dropping them with my tears. All the heart was
gone out of me, I was weary as though I had run miles, and sore like one beaten; when, as I
was folding a kerchief that she wore often at her neck, I observed there was a corner neatly
cut from it. It was a kerchief of a very pretty hue, on which I had frequently remarked; and
once that she had it on, I remembered telling her (by way of a banter) that she wore my colours.
There came a glow of hope and like a tide of sweetness in my bosom; and the next moment I was
plunged back in a fresh despair. For there was the corner crumpled in a knot and cast down
by itself in another part of the floor.

But when I argued with myself, I grew more hopeful. She had cut that corner off in some childish
freak that was manifestly tender; that she had cast it away again was little to be wondered
at; and I was inclined to dwell more upon the first than upon the second, and to be more pleased
that she had ever conceived the idea of that keepsake, than concerned because she had flung
it from her in an hour of natural resentment.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XXIX

WE MEET IN DUNKIRK

Altogether, then, I was scarce so miserable the next days but what I had many hopeful and happy
snatches; threw myself with a good deal of constancy upon my studies; and made out to endure
the time till Alan should arrive, or I might hear word of Catriona by the means of James More.
I had altogether three letters in the time of our separation. One was to announce their arrival
in the town of Dunkirk in France, from which place James shortly after started alone upon a
private mission. This was to England and to see Lord Holderness; and it has always been a bitter
thought that my good money helped to pay the charges of the same. But he has need of a long
spoon who sups with the deil, or James More either. During this absence, the time was to fall
due for another letter; and as the letter was the condition of his stipend, he had been so
careful as prepare it beforehand and leave it with Catriona to be despatched. The fact of our
correspondence aroused her suspicions, and he was no sooner gone than she had burst the seal.
What I received began accordingly in the writing of James More:

"My dear Sir,--Your esteemed favour came to hand duly, and I have to acknowledge the inclosure
according to agreement. It shall be all faithfully expended on my daughter, who is well, and
desires to be remembered to her dear friend. I find her in rather a melancholy disposition,
but trusts in the mercy of Grod to see her re-established. Our manner of life is very much
alone, but we solace ourselves with the melancholy tunes of our native mountains, and by walking
upon the margin of the sea that lies next to Scotland. It was better days with me when I lay
with five wounds upon my body on the field of Gladsmuir. I have found employment here in the
haras of a French nobleman, where my experience is valued. But, my dear Sir, the wages are
so exceedingly unsuitable that I would be ashamed to mention them, which makes your remittances
the more necessary to my daughter's comfort, though I daresay the sight of old friends would
be still better.

"My dear Sir, "Your affectionate obedient servant,

"JAMES MACGREGOR DRUMMOND."

Below it began again in the hand of Catriona:--

    "Do not be believing him, it is all lies together.
    "C.M.D."

Not only did she add this postcript, but I think she must have come near suppressing the letter;
for it came long after date, and was closely followed by the third. In the time betwixt them,
Alan had arrived, and made another life to me with his merry conversation; I had been presented
to his cousin of the Scots-Dutch, a man that drank more than I could have thought possible
and was not otherwise of interest; I had been entertained to many jovial dinners and given
some myself, all with no great change upon my sorrow; and we two (by which I mean Alan and
myself, and not at all the cousin) had discussed a good deal the nature of my relations with
James More and his daughter. I was naturally diffident to give particulars; and this disposition
was not anyway lessened by the nature of Alan's commentary upon those I gave.

"I cannae make head nor tail of it," he would say, "but it sticks in my mind ye've made a gowk
of yourself. There's few people that has had more experience than Alan Breck; and I can never
call to mind to have heard tell of a lassie like this one of yours. The way that you tell it,
the thing's fair impossible. Ye must have made a terrible hash of the business, David."

"There are whiles that I am of the same mind," said I.

"The strange thing is that ye seem to have a kind of a fancy for her too!" said Alan.

"The biggest kind, Alan," said I, "and I think I'll take it to my grave with me."

"Well, ye beat me, whatever!" he would conclude.

I showed him the letter with Catriona's postcript. "And here again!" he cried. "Impossible
to deny a kind of decency to this Catriona, and sense forby! As for James More, the man's as
boss as a drum; he's just a wame and a wheen words; though I'll can never deny that he fought
reasonably well at Gladsmuir, and it's true what he says here about the five wounds. But the
loss of him is that the man's boss."

"Ye see, Alan," said I, "it goes against the grain with me to leave the maid in such poor hands."

"Ye couldnae weel find poorer," he admitted. "But what are ye to do with it? It's this way
about a man and a woman, ye see, Davie: The weemenfolk have got no kind of reason to them.
Either they like the man, and then a' goes fine; or else they just detest him, and ye may spare
your breath--ye can do naething. There's just the two sets of them--them that would sell their
coats for ye, and them that never look the road ye're on. That's a' that there is to women;
and you seem to be such a gomeral that ye cannae tell the tane frae the tither."

"Well, and I'm afraid that's true for me," said I.

"And yet there's naething easier!" cried Alan. "I could easy learn ye the science of the thing;
but ye seem to me to be born blind, and there's where the diffeeculty comes in!"

"And can you no help me?" I asked, "you that's so clever at the trade?"

"Ye see, David, I wasnae here," said he. "I'm like a field officer that has naebody but blind
men for scouts and éclaireurs; and what would he ken? But it sticks in my mind that ye'll have
made some kind of bauchle; and if I was you, I would have a try at her again."

"Would ye so, man Alan?" said I.

"I would e'en't," says he.

The third letter came to my hand while we were deep in some such talk; and it will be seen
how pat it fell to the occasion. James professed to be in some concern upon his daughter's
health, which I believe was never better; abounded in kind expressions to myself; and finally
proposed that I should visit them at Dunkirk.

"You will now be enjoying the society of my old comrade, Mr. Stewart," he wrote. "Why not accompany
him so far in his return to France? I have something very particular for Mr. Stewart's ear;
and, at any rate, I would be pleased to meet in with an old fellow-soldier and one so mettle
as himself. As for you, my dear sir, my daughter and I would be proud to receive our benefactor,
whom we regard as a brother and a son. The French nobleman has proved a person of the most
filthy avarice of character, and I have been necessitate to leave the haras. You will find
us, in consequence, a little poorly lodged in the auberge of a man Bazin on the dunes; but
the situation is caller, and I make no doubt but we might spend some very pleasant days, when
Mr. Stewart and I could recall our services, and you and my daughter divert yourselves in a
manner more befitting your age. I beg at least that Mr. Stewart would come here; my business
with him opens a very wide door."

"What does the man want with me?" cried Alan, when he had read. "What he wants with you is
clear enough--it's siller. But what can he want with Alan Breck?"

"O, it'll be just an excuse," said I. "He is still after this marriage, which I wish from my
heart that we could bring about. And he asks you because he thinks I would be less likely to
come wanting you."

"Well, I wish that I kent," says Alan. "Him and me were never onyways pack; we used to girn
at ither like a pair of pipers. 'Something for my ear,' quo' he! I'll maybe have something
for his hinder end, before we're through with it. Dod, I'm thinking it would be a kind of a
divertisement to gang and see what he'll be after! Forby that I could see your lassie then.
What say ye, Davie? Will ye ride with Alan?"

You may be sure I was not backward, and Alan's furlough running towards an end, we set forth
presently upon this joint adventure.

It was near dark of a January day when we rode at last into the town of Dunkirk. We left our
horses at the post, and found a guide to Bazin's Inn, which lay beyond the walls. Night was
quite fallen, so that we were the last to leave that fortress, and heard the doors of it close
behind us as we passed the bridge. On the other side there lay a lighted suburb, which we thridded
for a while, then turned into a dark lane, and presently found ourselves wading in the night
among deep sand where we could hear a bullering of the sea. We travelled in this fashion for
some while, following our conductor mostly by the sound of his voice; and I had begun to think
he was perhaps misleading us, when we came to the top of a small brae, and there appeared out
of the darkness a dim light in a window.

"Voilà l'auberge à, Bazin," says the guide.

Alan smacked his lips. "An unco lonely bit," said he, and I thought by his tone he was not
wholly pleased.

A little after, and we stood in the lower storey of the house, which was all in the one apartment,
with a stair leading to the chambers at the side, benches and tables by the wall, the cooking
fire at the one end of it, and shelves of bottles and the cellar-trap at the other. Here Bazin,
who was an ill-looking, big man, told us the Scottish gentleman was gone abroad he knew not
where, but the young lady was above, and he would call her down to us.

I took from my breast the kerchief wanting the corner, and knotted it about my throat. I could
hear my heart go; and Alan patting me on the shoulder with some of his laughable expressions,
I could scarce refrain from a sharp word. But the time was not long to wait. I heard her step
pass overhead, and saw her on the stair. This she descended very quietly, and greeted me with
a pale face and certain seeming of earnestness, or uneasiness, in her manner that extremely
dashed me.

"My father, James More, will be here soon. He will be very pleased to see you," she said. And
then of a sudden her face flamed, her eyes lightened, the speech stopped upon her lips; and
I made sure she had observed the kerchief. It was only for a breath that she was discomposed;
but methought it was with a new animation that she turned to welcome Alan. "And you will be
his friend Alan Breck?" she cried. "Many is the dozen times I will have heard him tell of you;
and I love you already for all your bravery and goodness."

"Well, well," says Alan, holding her hand in his and viewing her, "and so this is the young
lady at the last of it! David, you're an awful poor hand of a description."

I do not know that ever I heard him speak so straight to people's hearts; the sound of his
voice was like song.

"What? will he have been describing me?" she cried.

"Little else of it since I ever came out of France!" says he, "forby a bit of speciment one
night in Scotland in a shaw of wood by Silvermills. But cheer up, my dear! ye're bonnier than
what he said. And now there's one thing sure: you and me are to be a pair of friends. I'm a
kind of a henchman to Davie here; I'm like a tyke at his heels; and whatever he cares for,
I've got to care for too--and by the holy airn! they've got to care for me! So now you can
see what way you stand with Alan Breck, and ye'll find ye'll hardly lose on the transaction.
He's no very bonnie, my dear, but he's leal to them he loves."

"I thank you with my heart for your good words," said she. "I have that honour for a brave,
honest man that I cannot find any to be answering with."

