The German facts are entirely analogous. Only later in the history of the language was the
vocalic alternation made significant for number. And yet consider the following facts. The
change of foti to föti antedated that of föti to föte, föt. This may be looked upon as a "lucky
accident," for if foti had become fote, fot before the -i had had the chance to exert a retroactive
influence on the o, there would have been no difference between the singular and the plural.
This would have been anomalous in Anglo-Saxon for a masculine noun. But was the sequence of
phonetic changes an "accident"? Consider two further facts. All the Germanic languages were
familiar with vocalic change as possessed of functional significance. Alternations like sing,
sang, sung (Anglo-Saxon singan, sang, sungen) were ingrained in the linguistic consciousness.
Further, the tendency toward the weakening of final syllables was very strong even then and
had been manifesting itself in one way and another for centuries. I believe that these further
facts help us to understand the actual sequence of phonetic changes. We may go so far as to
say that the o (and u) could afford to stay the change to ö (and ü) until the destructive drift
had advanced to the point where failure to modify the vowel would soon result in morphological
embarrassment. At a certain moment the -i ending of the plural (and analogous endings with
i in other formations) was felt to be too weak to quite bear its functional burden. The unconscious
Anglo-Saxon mind, if I may be allowed a somewhat summary way of putting the complex facts,
was glad of the opportunity afforded by certain individual variations, until then automatically
canceled out, to have some share of the burden thrown on them. These particular variations
won through because they so beautifully allowed the general phonetic drift to take its course
without unsettling the morphological contours of the language. And the presence of symbolic
variation (sing, sang, sung) acted as an attracting force on the rise of a new variation of
similar character. All these factors were equally true of the German vocalic shift. Owing to
the fact that the destructive phonetic drift was proceeding at a slower rate in German than
in English, the preservative change of uo to üe (u to ü) did not need to set in until 300 years
or more after the analogous English change. Nor did it. And this is to my mind a highly significant
fact. Phonetic changes may sometimes be unconsciously encouraged in order to keep intact the
psychological spaces between words and word forms. The general drift seizes upon those individual
sound variations that help to preserve the morphological balance or to lead to the new balance
that the language is striving for.

I would suggest, then, that phonetic change is compacted of at least three basic strands: (1)
A general drift in one direction, concerning the nature of which we know almost nothing but
which may be suspected to be of prevailingly dynamic character (tendencies, e.g., to greater
or less stress, greater or less voicing of elements); (2) A readjusting tendency which aims
to preserve or restore the fundamental phonetic pattern of the language; (3) A preservative
tendency which sets in when a too serious morphological unsettlement is threatened by the main
drift. I do not imagine for a moment that it is always possible to separate these strands or
that this purely schematic statement does justice to the complex forces that guide the phonetic
drift. The phonetic pattern of a language is not invariable, but it changes far less readily
than the sounds that compose it. Every phonetic element that it possesses may change radically
and yet the pattern remain unaffected. It would be absurd to claim that our present English
pattern is identical with the old Indo-European one, yet it is impressive to note that even
at this late day the English series of initial consonants:

p  t  k b  d  g f  th h

corresponds point for point to the Sanskrit series:

b  d  g bh dh gh p  t  k

The relation between phonetic pattern and individual sound is roughly parallel to that which
obtains between the morphologic type of a language and one of its specific morphological features.
Both phonetic pattern and fundamental type are exceedingly conservative, all superficial appearances
to the contrary notwithstanding. Which is more so we cannot say. I suspect that they hang together
in a way that we cannot at present quite understand.

If all the phonetic changes brought about by the phonetic drift were allowed to stand, it is
probable that most languages would present such irregularities of morphological contour as
to lose touch with their formal ground-plan. Sound changes work mechanically. Hence they are
likely to affect a whole morphological group here--this does not matter--, only part of a morphological
group there--and this may be disturbing. Thus, the old Anglo-Saxon paradigm:

          Sing.                   Plur.
N. Ac.    fot                   fet (older foti)
G.        fotes                 fota
D.        fet (older foti)    fotum

could not long stand unmodified. The o--e alternation was welcome in so far as it roughly distinguished
the singular from the plural. The dative singular fet, however, though justified historically,
was soon felt to be an intrusive feature. The analogy of simpler and more numerously represented
paradigms created the form fote (compare, e.g., fisc "fish," dative singular fisce). Fet as
a dative becomes obsolete. The singular now had o throughout. But this very fact made the genitive
and dative o-forms of the plural seem out of place. The nominative and accusative fet was naturally
far more frequently in use than were the corresponding forms of the genitive and dative. These,
in the end, could not but follow the analogy of fet. At the very beginning of the Middle English
period, therefore, we find that the old paradigm has yielded to a more regular one:

          Sing.      Plur.
N. Ac.   *fot     *fet
G.       *fotes    fete
D.        fote     feten

The starred forms are the old nucleus around which the new paradigm is built. The unstarred
forms are not genealogical kin of their formal prototypes. They are analogical replacements.

The history of the English language teems with such levelings or extensions. Elder and eldest
were at one time the only possible comparative and superlative forms of old (compare German
alt, älter, der älteste; the vowel following the old-, alt- was originally an i, which modified
the quality of the stem vowel). The general analogy of the vast majority of English adjectives,
however, has caused the replacement of the forms elder and eldest by the forms with unmodified
vowel, older and oldest. Elder and eldest survive only as somewhat archaic terms for the older
and oldest brother or sister. This illustrates the tendency for words that are psychologically
disconnected from their etymological or formal group to preserve traces of phonetic laws that
have otherwise left no recognizable trace or to preserve a vestige of a morphological process
that has long lost its vitality. A careful study of these survivals or atrophied forms is not
without value for the reconstruction of the earlier history of a language or for suggestive
hints as to its remoter affiliations.

Analogy may not only refashion forms within the confines of a related cluster of forms (a "paradigm")
but may extend its influence far beyond. Of a number of functionally equivalent elements, for
instance, only one may survive, the rest yielding to its constantly widening influence. This
is what happened with the English -s plural. Originally confined to a particular class of masculines,
though an important class, the -s plural was gradually generalized for all nouns but a mere
handful that still illustrate plural types now all but extinct (foot: feet, goose: geese, tooth:
teeth, mouse: mice, louse: lice; ox: oxen; child: children; sheep: sheep, deer: deer). Thus
analogy not only regularizes irregularities that have come in the wake of phonetic processes
but introduces disturbances, generally in favor of greater simplicity or regularity, in a long
established system of forms. These analogical adjustments are practically always symptoms of
the general morphological drift of the language.

A morphological feature that appears as the incidental consequence of a phonetic process, like
the English plural with modified vowel, may spread by analogy no less readily than old features
that owe their origin to other than phonetic causes. Once the e-vowel of Middle English fet
had become confined to the plural, there was no theoretical reason why alternations of the
type fot: fet and mus: mis might not have become established as a productive type of number
distinction in the noun. As a matter of fact, it did not so become established. The fot: fet
type of plural secured but a momentary foothold. It was swept into being by one of the surface
drifts of the language, to be swept aside in the Middle English period by the more powerful
drift toward the use of simple distinctive forms. It was too late in the day for our language
to be seriously interested in such pretty symbolisms as foot: feet. What examples of the type
arose legitimately, in other words via purely phonetic processes, were tolerated for a time,
but the type as such never had a serious future.

It was different in German. The whole series of phonetic changes comprised under the term "umlaut,"
of which u: ü and au: oi (written äu) are but specific examples, struck the German language
at a time when the general drift to morphological simplification was not so strong but that
the resulting formal types (e.g., Fuss: Füsse; fallen "to fall": fällen "to fell"; Horn "horn":
Gehörne "group of horns"; Haus "house": Häuslein "little house") could keep themselves intact
and even extend to forms that did not legitimately come within their sphere of influence. "Umlaut"
is still a very live symbolic process in German, possibly more alive to-day than in medieval
times. Such analogical plurals as Baum "tree": Bäume (contrast Middle High German boum: boume)
and derivatives as lachen "to laugh": Gelächter "laughter" (contrast Middle High German gelach)
show that vocalic mutation has won through to the status of a productive morphologic process.
Some of the dialects have even gone further than standard German, at least in certain respects.
In Yiddish,[162] for instance, "umlaut" plurals have been formed where there are no Middle
High German prototypes or modern literary parallels, e.g., tog "day": teg "days" (but German
Tag: Tage) on the analogy of gast "guest": gest "guests" (German Gast: Gäste), shuch[163] "shoe":
shich "shoes" (but German Schuh: Schuhe) on the analogy of fus "foot": fis "feet." It is possible
that "umlaut" will run its course and cease to operate as a live functional process in German,
but that time is still distant. Meanwhile all consciousness of the merely phonetic nature of
"umlaut" vanished centuries ago. It is now a strictly morphological process, not in the least
a mechanical phonetic adjustment. We have in it a splendid example of how a simple phonetic
law, meaningless in itself, may eventually color or transform large reaches of the morphology
of a language.

[Footnote 162: Isolated from other German dialects in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth
centuries. It is therefore a good test for gauging the strength of the tendency to "umlaut,"
particularly as it has developed a strong drift towards analytic methods.]

[Footnote 163: Ch as in German Buch.]

IX

HOW LANGUAGES INFLUENCE EACH OTHER

Languages, like cultures, are rarely sufficient unto themselves. The necessities of intercourse
bring the speakers of one language into direct or indirect contact with those of neighboring
or culturally dominant languages. The intercourse may be friendly or hostile. It may move on
the humdrum plane of business and trade relations or it may consist of a borrowing or interchange
of spiritual goods--art, science, religion. It would be difficult to point to a completely
isolated language or dialect, least of all among the primitive peoples. The tribe is often
so small that intermarriages with alien tribes that speak other dialects or even totally unrelated
languages are not uncommon. It may even be doubted whether intermarriage, intertribal trade,
and general cultural interchanges are not of greater relative significance on primitive levels
than on our own. Whatever the degree or nature of contact between neighboring peoples, it is
generally sufficient to lead to some kind of linguistic interinfluencing. Frequently the influence
runs heavily in one direction. The language of a people that is looked upon as a center of
culture is naturally far more likely to exert an appreciable influence on other languages spoken
in its vicinity than to be influenced by them. Chinese has flooded the vocabularies of Corean,
Japanese, and Annamite for centuries, but has received nothing in return. In the western Europe
of medieval and modern times French has exercised a similar, though probably a less overwhelming,
influence. English borrowed an immense number of words from the French of the Norman invaders,
later also from the court French of Isle de France, appropriated a certain number of affixed
elements of derivational value (e.g., -ess of princess, -ard of drunkard, -ty of royalty),
may have been somewhat stimulated in its general analytic drift by contact with French,[164]
and even allowed French to modify its phonetic pattern slightly (e.g., initial v and j in words
like veal and judge; in words of Anglo-Saxon origin v and j can only occur after vowels, e.g.,
over, hedge). But English has exerted practically no influence on French.

[Footnote 164: The earlier students of English, however, grossly exaggerated the general "disintegrating"
effect of French on middle English. English was moving fast toward a more analytic structure
long before the French influence set in.]

The simplest kind of influence that one language may exert on another is the "borrowing" of
words. When there is cultural borrowing there is always the likelihood that the associated
words may be borrowed too. When the early Germanic peoples of northern Europe first learned
of wine-culture and of paved streets from their commercial or warlike contact with the Romans,
it was only natural that they should adopt the Latin words for the strange beverage (vinum,
English wine, German Wein) and the unfamiliar type of road (strata [via], English street, German
Strasse). Later, when Christianity was introduced into England, a number of associated words,
such as bishop and angel, found their way into English. And so the process has continued uninterruptedly
down to the present day, each cultural wave bringing to the language a new deposit of loan-words.
The careful study of such loan-words constitutes an interesting commentary on the history of
culture. One can almost estimate the rôle which various peoples have played in the development
and spread of cultural ideas by taking note of the extent to which their vocabularies have
filtered into those of other peoples. When we realize that an educated Japanese can hardly
frame a single literary sentence without the use of Chinese resources, that to this day Siamese
and Burmese and Cambodgian bear the unmistakable imprint of the Sanskrit and Pali that came
in with Hindu Buddhism centuries ago, or that whether we argue for or against the teaching
of Latin and Greek our argument is sure to be studded with words that have come to us from
Rome and Athens, we get some inkling of what early Chinese culture and Buddhism and classical
Mediterranean civilization have meant in the world's history. There are just five languages
that have had an overwhelming significance as carriers of culture. They are classical Chinese,
Sanskrit, Arabic, Greek, and Latin. In comparison with these even such culturally important
languages as Hebrew and French sink into a secondary position. It is a little disappointing
to learn that the general cultural influence of English has so far been all but negligible.
The English language itself is spreading because the English have colonized immense territories.
But there is nothing to show that it is anywhere entering into the lexical heart of other languages
as French has colored the English complexion or as Arabic has permeated Persian and Turkish.
This fact alone is significant of the power of nationalism, cultural as well as political,
during the last century. There are now psychological resistances to borrowing, or rather to
new sources of borrowing,[165] that were not greatly alive in the Middle Ages or during the
Renaissance.

[Footnote 165: For we still name our new scientific instruments and patent medicines from Greek
and Latin.]

Are there resistances of a more intimate nature to the borrowing of words? It is generally
assumed that the nature and extent of borrowing depend entirely on the historical facts of
culture relation; that if German, for instance, has borrowed less copiously than English from
Latin and French it is only because Germany has had less intimate relations than England with
the culture spheres of classical Rome and France. This is true to a considerable extent, but
it is not the whole truth. We must not exaggerate the physical importance of the Norman invasion
nor underrate the significance of the fact that Germany's central geographical position made
it peculiarly sensitive to French influences all through the Middle Ages, to humanistic influences
in the latter fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries, and again to the powerful French influences
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. It seems very probable that the psychological
attitude of the borrowing language itself towards linguistic material has much to do with its
receptivity to foreign words. English has long been striving for the completely unified, unanalyzed
word, regardless of whether it is monosyllabic or polysyllabic. Such words as credible, certitude,
intangible are entirely welcome in English because each represents a unitary, well-nuanced
idea and because their formal analysis (cred-ible, cert-itude, in-tang-ible) is not a necessary
act of the unconscious mind (cred-, cert-, and tang- have no real existence in English comparable
to that of good- in goodness). A word like intangible, once it is acclimated, is nearly as
simple a psychological entity as any radical monosyllable (say vague, thin, grasp). In German,
however, polysyllabic words strive to analyze themselves into significant elements. Hence vast
numbers of French and Latin words, borrowed at the height of certain cultural influences, could
not maintain themselves in the language. Latin-German words like kredibel "credible" and French-German
words like reussieren "to succeed" offered nothing that the unconscious mind could assimilate
to its customary method of feeling and handling words. It is as though this unconscious mind
said: "I am perfectly willing to accept kredibel if you will just tell me what you mean by
kred-." Hence German has generally found it easier to create new words out of its own resources,
as the necessity for them arose.

The psychological contrast between English and German as regards the treatment of foreign material
is a contrast that may be studied in all parts of the world. The Athabaskan languages of America
are spoken by peoples that have had astonishingly varied cultural contacts, yet nowhere do
we find that an Athabaskan dialect has borrowed at all freely[166] from a neighboring language.
These languages have always found it easier to create new words by compounding afresh elements
ready to hand. They have for this reason been highly resistant to receiving the linguistic
impress of the external cultural experiences of their speakers. Cambodgian and Tibetan offer
a highly instructive contrast in their reaction to Sanskrit influence. Both are analytic languages,
each totally different from the highly-wrought, inflective language of India. Cambodgian is
isolating, but, unlike Chinese, it contains many polysyllabic words whose etymological analysis
does not matter. Like English, therefore, in its relation to French and Latin, it welcomed
immense numbers of Sanskrit loan-words, many of which are in common use to-day. There was no
psychological resistance to them. Classical Tibetan literature was a slavish adaptation of
Hindu Buddhist literature and nowhere has Buddhism implanted itself more firmly than in Tibet,
yet it is strange how few Sanskrit words have found their way into the language. Tibetan was
highly resistant to the polysyllabic words of Sanskrit because they could not automatically
fall into significant syllables, as they should have in order to satisfy the Tibetan feeling
for form. Tibetan was therefore driven to translating the great majority of these Sanskrit
words into native equivalents. The Tibetan craving for form was satisfied, though the literally
translated foreign terms must often have done violence to genuine Tibetan idiom. Even the proper
names of the Sanskrit originals were carefully translated, element for element, into Tibetan;
e.g., Suryagarbha "Sun-bosomed" was carefully Tibetanized into Nyi-mai snying-po "Sun-of heart-the,
the heart (or essence) of the sun." The study of how a language reacts to the presence of foreign
words--rejecting them, translating them, or freely accepting them--may throw much valuable
light on its innate formal tendencies.

[Footnote 166: One might all but say, "has borrowed at all."]

The borrowing of foreign words always entails their phonetic modification. There are sure to
be foreign sounds or accentual peculiarities that do not fit the native phonetic habits. They
are then so changed as to do as little violence as possible to these habits. Frequently we
have phonetic compromises. Such an English word as the recently introduced camouflage, as now
ordinarily pronounced, corresponds to the typical phonetic usage of neither English nor French.
The aspirated k, the obscure vowel of the second syllable, the precise quality of the l and
of the last a, and, above all, the strong accent on the first syllable, are all the results
of unconscious assimilation to our English habits of pronunciation. They differentiate our
camouflage clearly from the same word as pronounced by the French. On the other hand, the long,
heavy vowel in the third syllable and the final position of the "zh" sound (like z in azure)
are distinctly un-English, just as, in Middle English, the initial j and v[167] must have been
felt at first as not strictly in accord with English usage, though the strangeness has worn
off by now. In all four of these cases--initial j, initial v, final "zh," and unaccented a
of father--English has not taken on a new sound but has merely extended the use of an old one.

[Footnote 167: See page 206.]

Occasionally a new sound is introduced, but it is likely to melt away before long. In Chaucer's
day the old Anglo-Saxon ü (written y) had long become unrounded to i, but a new set of ü-vowels
had come in from the French (in such words as due, value, nature). The new ü did not long hold
its own; it became diphthongized to iu and was amalgamated with the native iw of words like
new and slew. Eventually this diphthong appears as yu, with change of stress--dew (from Anglo-Saxon
deaw) like due (Chaucerian dü). Facts like these show how stubbornly a language resists radical
tampering with its phonetic pattern.

Nevertheless, we know that languages do influence each other in phonetic respects, and that
quite aside from the taking over of foreign sounds with borrowed words. One of the most curious
facts that linguistics has to note is the occurrence of striking phonetic parallels in totally
unrelated or very remotely related languages of a restricted geographical area. These parallels
become especially impressive when they are seen contrastively from a wide phonetic perspective.
Here are a few examples. The Germanic languages as a whole have not developed nasalized vowels.
Certain Upper German (Suabian) dialects, however, have now nasalized vowels in lieu of the
older vowel + nasal consonant (n). Is it only accidental that these dialects are spoken in
proximity to French, which makes abundant use of nasalized vowels? Again, there are certain
general phonetic features that mark off Dutch and Flemish in contrast, say, to North German
and Scandinavian dialects. One of these is the presence of unaspirated voiceless stops (p,
t, k), which have a precise, metallic quality reminiscent of the corresponding French sounds,
but which contrast with the stronger, aspirated stops of English, North German, and Danish.
Even if we assume that the unaspirated stops are more archaic, that they are the unmodified
descendants of the old Germanic consonants, is it not perhaps a significant historical fact
that the Dutch dialects, neighbors of French, were inhibited from modifying these consonants
in accordance with what seems to have been a general Germanic phonetic drift? Even more striking
than these instances is the peculiar resemblance, in certain special phonetic respects, of
Russian and other Slavic languages to the unrelated Ural-Altaic languages[168] of the Volga
region. The peculiar, dull vowel, for instance, known in Russian as "yeri"[169] has Ural-Altaic
analogues, but is entirely wanting in Germanic, Greek, Armenian, and Indo-Iranian, the nearest
Indo-European congeners of Slavic. We may at least suspect that the Slavic vowel is not historically
unconnected with its Ural-Altaic parallels. One of the most puzzling cases of phonetic parallelism
is afforded by a large number of American Indian languages spoken west of the Rockies. Even
at the most radical estimate there are at least four totally unrelated linguistic stocks represented
in the region from southern Alaska to central California. Nevertheless all, or practically
all, the languages of this immense area have some important phonetic features in common. Chief
of these is the presence of a "glottalized" series of stopped consonants of very distinctive
formation and of quite unusual acoustic effect.[170] In the northern part of the area all the
languages, whether related or not, also possess various voiceless l-sounds and a series of
"velar" (back-guttural) stopped consonants which are etymologically distinct from the ordinary
k-series. It is difficult to believe that three such peculiar phonetic features as I have mentioned
could have evolved independently in neighboring groups of languages.

[Footnote 168: Ugro-Finnic and Turkish (Tartar)]

[Footnote 169: Probably, in Sweet's terminology, high-back (or, better, between back and "mixed"
positions)-narrow-unrounded. It generally corresponds to an Indo-European long u.]

[Footnote 170: There seem to be analogous or partly analogous sounds in certain languages of
the Caucasus.]

How are we to explain these and hundreds of similar phonetic convergences? In particular cases
we may really be dealing with archaic similarities due to a genetic relationship that it is
beyond our present power to demonstrate. But this interpretation will not get us far. It must
be ruled entirely out of court, for instance, in two of the three European examples I have
instanced; both nasalized vowels and the Slavic "yeri" are demonstrably of secondary origin
in Indo-European. However we envisage the process in detail, we cannot avoid the inference
that there is a tendency for speech sounds or certain distinctive manners of articulation to
spread over a continuous area in somewhat the same way that elements of culture ray out from
a geographical center. We may suppose that individual variations arising at linguistic borderlands--whether
by the unconscious suggestive influence of foreign speech habits or by the actual transfer
of foreign sounds into the speech of bilingual individuals--have gradually been incorporated
into the phonetic drift of a language. So long as its main phonetic concern is the preservation
of its sound patterning, not of its sounds as such, there is really no reason why a language
may not unconsciously assimilate foreign sounds that have succeeded in worming their way into
its gamut of individual variations, provided always that these new variations (or reinforced
old variations) are in the direction of the native drift.

A simple illustration will throw light on this conception. Let us suppose that two neighboring
and unrelated languages, A and B, each possess voiceless l-sounds (compare Welsh ll). We surmise
that this is not an accident. Perhaps comparative study reveals the fact that in language A
the voiceless l-sounds correspond to a sibilant series in other related languages, that an
old alternation s: sh has been shifted to the new alternation l (voiceless): s.[171] Does it
follow that the voiceless l of language B has had the same history? Not in the least. Perhaps
B has a strong tendency toward audible breath release at the end of a word, so that the final
l, like a final vowel, was originally followed by a marked aspiration. Individuals perhaps
tended to anticipate a little the voiceless release and to "unvoice" the latter part of the
final l-sound (very much as the l of English words like felt tends to be partly voiceless in
anticipation of the voicelessness of the t). Yet this final l with its latent tendency to unvoicing
might never have actually developed into a fully voiceless l had not the presence of voiceless
l-sounds in A acted as an unconscious stimulus or suggestive push toward a more radical change
in the line of B's own drift. Once the final voiceless l emerged, its alternation in related
words with medial voiced l is very likely to have led to its analogical spread. The result
would be that both A and B have an important phonetic trait in common. Eventually their phonetic
systems, judged as mere assemblages of sounds, might even become completely assimilated to
each other, though this is an extreme case hardly ever realized in practice. The highly significant
thing about such phonetic interinfluencings is the strong tendency of each language to keep
its phonetic pattern intact. So long as the respective alignments of the similar sounds is
different, so long as they have differing "values" and "weights" in the unrelated languages,
these languages cannot be said to have diverged materially from the line of their inherent
drift. In phonetics, as in vocabulary, we must be careful not to exaggerate the importance
of interlinguistic influences.

[Footnote 171: This can actually be demonstrated for one of the Athabaskan dialects of the Yukon.]

I have already pointed out in passing that English has taken over a certain number of morphological
elements from French. English also uses a number of affixes that are derived from Latin and
Greek. Some of these foreign elements, like the -ize of materialize or the -able of breakable,
are even productive to-day. Such examples as these are hardly true evidences of a morphological
influence exerted by one language on another. Setting aside the fact that they belong to the
sphere of derivational concepts and do not touch the central morphological problem of the expression
of relational ideas, they have added nothing to the structural peculiarities of our language.
English was already prepared for the relation of pity to piteous by such a native pair as luck
and lucky; material and materialize merely swelled the ranks of a form pattern familiar from
such instances as wide and widen. In other words, the morphological influence exerted by foreign
languages on English, if it is to be gauged by such examples as I have cited, is hardly different
in kind from the mere borrowing of words. The introduction of the suffix -ize made hardly more
difference to the essential build of the language than did the mere fact that it incorporated
a given number of words. Had English evolved a new future on the model of the synthetic future
in French or had it borrowed from Latin and Greek their employment of reduplication as a functional
device (Latin tango: tetigi; Greek leipo: leloipa), we should have the right to speak of true
morphological influence. But such far-reaching influences are not demonstrable. Within the
whole course of the history of the English language we can hardly point to one important morphological
change that was not determined by the native drift, though here and there we may surmise that
this drift was hastened a little by the suggestive influence of French forms.[172]

[Footnote 172: In the sphere of syntax one may point to certain French and Latin influences,
but it is doubtful if they ever reached deeper than the written language. Much of this type
of influence belongs rather to literary style than to morphology proper.]

It is important to realize the continuous, self-contained morphological development of English
and the very modest extent to which its fundamental build has been affected by influences from
without. The history of the English language has sometimes been represented as though it relapsed
into a kind of chaos on the arrival of the Normans, who proceeded to play nine-pins with the
Anglo-Saxon tradition. Students are more conservative today. That a far-reaching analytic development
may take place without such external foreign influence as English was subjected to is clear
from the history of Danish, which has gone even further than English in certain leveling tendencies.
English may be conveniently used as an a fortiori test. It was flooded with French loan-words
during the later Middle Ages, at a time when its drift toward the analytic type was especially
strong. It was therefore changing rapidly both within and on the surface. The wonder, then,
is not that it took on a number of external morphological features, mere accretions on its
concrete inventory, but that, exposed as it was to remolding influences, it remained so true
to its own type and historic drift. The experience gained from the study of the English language
is strengthened by all that we know of documented linguistic history. Nowhere do we find any
but superficial morphological interinfluencings. We may infer one of several things from this:--That
a really serious morphological influence is not, perhaps, impossible, but that its operation
is so slow that it has hardly ever had the chance to incorporate itself in the relatively small
portion of linguistic history that lies open to inspection; or that there are certain favorable
conditions that make for profound morphological disturbances from without, say a peculiar instability
of linguistic type or an unusual degree of cultural contact, conditions that do not happen
to be realized in our documentary material; or, finally, that we have not the right to assume
that a language may easily exert a remolding morphological influence on another.

Meanwhile we are confronted by the baffling fact that important traits of morphology are frequently
found distributed among widely differing languages within a large area, so widely differing,
indeed, that it is customary to consider them genetically unrelated. Sometimes we may suspect
that the resemblance is due to a mere convergence, that a similar morphological feature has
grown up independently in unrelated languages. Yet certain morphological distributions are
too specific in character to be so lightly dismissed. There must be some historical factor
to account for them. Now it should be remembered that the concept of a "linguistic stock" is
never definitive[173] in an exclusive sense. We can only say, with reasonable certainty, that
such and such languages are descended from a common source, but we cannot say that such and
such other languages are not genetically related. All we can do is to say that the evidence
for relationship is not cumulative enough to make the inference of common origin absolutely
necessary. May it not be, then, that many instances of morphological similarity between divergent
languages of a restricted area are merely the last vestiges of a community of type and phonetic
substance that the destructive work of diverging drifts has now made unrecognizable? There
is probably still enough lexical and morphological resemblance between modern English and Irish
to enable us to make out a fairly conclusive case for their genetic relationship on the basis
of the present-day descriptive evidence alone. It is true that the case would seem weak in
comparison to the case that we can actually make with the help of the historical and the comparative
data that we possess. It would not be a bad case nevertheless. In another two or three millennia,
however, the points of resemblance are likely to have become so obliterated that English and
Irish, in the absence of all but their own descriptive evidence, will have to be set down as
"unrelated" languages. They will still have in common certain fundamental morphological features,
but it will be difficult to know how to evaluate them. Only in the light of the contrastive
perspective afforded by still more divergent languages, such as Basque and Finnish, will these
vestigial resemblances receive their true historic value.

[Footnote 173: See page 163.]

I cannot but suspect that many of the more significant distributions of morphological similarities
are to be explained as just such vestiges. The theory of "borrowing" seems totally inadequate
to explain those fundamental features of structure, hidden away in the very core of the linguistic
complex, that have been pointed out as common, say, to Semitic and Hamitic, to the various
Soudanese languages, to Malayo-Polynesian and Mon-Khmer[174] and Munda,[175] to Athabaskan
and Tlingit and Haida. We must not allow ourselves to be frightened away by the timidity of
the specialists, who are often notably lacking in the sense of what I have called "contrastive
perspective."

[Footnote 174: A group of languages spoken in southeastern Asia, of which Khmer (Cambodgian)
is the best known representative.]

[Footnote 175: A group of languages spoken in northeastern India.]

