THEN I'LL COME BACK TO YOU

by

LARRY EVANS

Author of Once to Every Man

Illustrated by Will Stevens

[Frontispiece: "I Ain't Never Seen Nothin'," He Stated Patiently.  "I Ain't Never Seen More'n
Three Houses in a Clearin' Before.  I Ain't Never Been Outen the Timber--Till To-Day.  But
I Aim to See More Now--Before I Get Done."]

New York Grosset & Dunlap Publishers Copyright, 1915, by The H. K. Fly Company. Copyright,
1915, by The Metropolitan Magazine Company.

To the Memory of

My Mother

CONTENTS.

Chapter

     I. I DON'T MIND IF I DO!
    II. THE LOGICAL CUSTODIAN
   III. THREE QUARTERS AND SIX EIGHTHS
    IV. I'LL TELL HER YOU'RE A BAPTIST
     V. THEN I'LL COME BACK TO YOU
    VI. MY MAN O'MARA
   VII. HARRIGAN, THAT'S ME!
  VIII. GREETINGS, SIR GALLAHAD!
    IX. A MATTER OF ORNITHOLOGY
     X. NOT A CHANCE IN THE WORLD
    XI. I NEVER DID LIKE TO BE BEATEN
   XII. THAT WOODS-RAT
  XIII. THIS LITERARY THING
   XIV. A GIRL LIKE HER
    XV. LAW AND LUMBER
   XVI. ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN
  XVII. HONEY!
 XVIII. I'M TELLING YOU GOOD-BYE
   XIX. SOME LETTERS AND A REPLY
    XX. BLUE FLANNEL AND CORDUROY
   XXI. SETTING THE STAGE
  XXII. IT HAPPENS IN BOOKS
 XXIII. TO-MORROW--
  XXIV. --AND TO-MORROW, AND TO-MORROW
   XXV. Frontispiece

"I've Always Had to Wait a Long Time for Everything I've Wanted," the Boy Answered, "But I
Always Get It, Just the Same, if I Only Want it Hard Enough."

"Blessings, My Children," He Called to the Two in the Shadow.  "My Felicitations! and E'en
though I know Not Your Identity, Still I May Sense Your Fond Confusion."

"Oh, I Can't Tell You How Glad I Am to See You So--So Well!"

THEN I'LL COME BACK TO YOU

CHAPTER I

I DON'T MIND IF I DO!

That year no rain had fallen for a score of days in the hill country. The valley road that
wound upward and still upward from the town of Morrison ran a ribbon of puffy yellow dust between
sun-baked, brown-sodded dunes; ran north and north, a tortuous series of loops on loops, to
lose itself at last in the cooler promise of the first bulwark of the mountains.  They looked
cooler, the distant wooded hills; for all the shimmering heat waves that danced and eddied
in the gaps and glanced, shaft-like, from the brittle needles of the pines which sentineled
the ridges, they hinted at depths to which the sun's rays could not penetrate; they hinted
at chasms padded with moss, shadowed and dim beneath chapel arches of spruce and hemlock, even
chilly with the spray of spring-fed brooks that brawled in miniature rocky canyons.  And they
made the gasping heat of the valley a little more unendurable by very contrast.

Since early afternoon Caleb Hunter had been sitting almost immobile in the shade of the trellis
which flanked the deep verandas of his huge white, thick-pillared house on the hill above the
river.  It was reminiscent of another locality--the old Hunter place on the valley road.  When
Caleb Hunter's father had come north, back when his loyalty to a flag and his pity for a gaunt
and lonely figure in the White House had been stronger than bonds of blood, he had left its
counterpart down on the Tennessee.  Afterward, with one empty sleeve pinned across his breast,
he had directed with the other hand the placing of the columns. And finally, when he had had
to leave this home in turn, along with its high, white painted walls and glossy green shutters,
he had passed down to his son his inborn love of the warmth, his innocent delight in indolence--and
an unsurpassed judgment of mint.  The mint bed still lay where he had located it, to the west
of the house, moist and fragrant in the shadow.

Caleb Hunter had been drowsing contentedly since early afternoon, his chin on his chest and
the bowl of his pipe drooping down over his comfortably bulging, unbuttoned waistcoat.  The
lazy day was in his blood and even the whine of the sawmills on the river-bank, a mile or more
to the south, tempered as it was by the distance to the drone of a surly bumble-bee, still
vaguely annoyed him.  Tiny dots of men in flannel shirts of brilliant hue, flashing from time
to time out across the log-choked space between the booms, caught his eye whenever he lifted
his head, during the passage of a green-sprayed glass from the veranda rail to his lips, and
almost reminded him of the unnatural altitude of the mercury.  He, without being analytical
about it, would have preferred it without the industry and the noise, even softened as both
were by the distance.

Morrison had changed since Caleb Hunter's father topped with the white-columned house that
hill above the river.  In those days it had been little more than a sleepy, if conservatively
prosperous and self-sufficient, community, without industry of any sort, or, it might be added,
ambition or seeming need of one.  The Basin where the river widened and ran currentless a mile
or two from bank to bank, in Caleb's father's time for weeks and weeks on end often had showed
no more signs of activity than a dawdling fisherman or two who angled now and then and smoked
incessantly.  And now even the low-lying foothills in which the elder Hunter had tried to see
from homesick eyes a resemblance to the outguard of his own Cumberlands were no longer given
over to pasturage.  They had taken on an entirely different aspect.

The northern streets of the town were still dotted with the homes of those families who had
been content with just the shade and the silence and the sheen of the river, and an ample though
inaugmented income. But the outside world, ignoring the lack of an invitation too long in the
coming, had in the last year or so grown in to meet it more than half way.  From the Hunter
verandas a half-dozen red-roofed, brown-shingled bungalows, half camps and half castles, were
visible across the land stretches where the cattle had grazed before.  And just beyond Caleb
Hunter's own high box hedge, Dexter Allison's enormous stucco and timber "summer lodge" sprawled
amid a round dozen acres of green lawn and landscape gardening, its front to the river.

To Dexter Allison's blame or credit--the nature of the verdict depending entirely upon whether
it was rendered by the older or the newer generation--was laid the transformation of Morrison,
the town proper.  Caleb Hunter had known Allison at college, where the latter had been prominent
both because of the brilliance of his wardrobe and the reputed size of his father's steadily
accumulating resources. Since that time seven-figure fortunes such as the younger Allison had
inherited, had become too general to be any longer spectacular.  But Dexter Allison's garments
had always retained their insistent note. Hunter himself had sold Allison the ground upon which
the stucco house stood; he had heartily agreed that it was an ideal spot for a loafing place--and
the fishing was good, too!  Now whenever Caleb thought of those first conferences which had
preceded the sale, and recalled Allison's accentuation of the natural beauties of the spot,
Caleb allowed himself to smile.

The fishing was still far above reproach, a little further back country--and Dexter Allison
owned the sawmills that droned in the valley.  His men drove his timber down from the hills
in the north; his men piled the yellow planks upon his flat cars which ran in over his spur
line that had crept up from the south.  His hundreds and hundreds of rivermen already trod
the sawdust-padded streets of the newer Morrison that had sprung into being beyond the bend;
they swarmed in on the drives, a hard-faced, hard-shouldered horde, picturesque, proficient
and profane.  They brought with them color and care-free prodigality and a capacity for abandonment
to pleasure that ran the whole gamut of emotions, from raucous-roared chanties to sudden, swift
encounters which were as silent as they were deadly.  And they spent their money without stopping
to count it.

The younger generation of the older Morrison was quick to point out the virtues of this vice.
And after a time, when the older generation found that the rivermen preferred their own section
of the town, ignoring as though they had never existed the staid and sleepy residential streets
above, they heaved a sigh of partial relief and tried to forget their proximity.

Little more than a year had been required for that transformation.  The boards of some of the
newer shacks down river were still damp with pitch.  And twice during that period Dexter Allison
had come into the hills to take up a transitory abode in the stucco house which had been quite
six months in the building:--once, two years before, when he had disappeared into the mountains
upon a prolonged fishing trip, to return fishless but with an astonishing mass of pencilled
data and contour maps; and the second time for an even longer stay, a year ago when the mill
was being erected.

Since then the stucco and timber place had been closed, with no one but a doddering old caretaker
and a gardener or two about the premises, until early that last hot August week.  On Monday
Caleb Hunter had noticed that the blinds had been thrown open to the air; on Wednesday, from
his point of vantage upon the porch, he had watched a rather astounding load of trunks careen
in at the driveway, piloted by a mill teamster who had for two seasons held the record for
a double-team load of logs and was making the most of that opportunity to prove his skill.
And the next morning the tumult raised by a group of children racing over the shorn lawns had
awakened him; he had descended to be hailed by Dexter Allison's own booming bass from behind
the intervening high box hedge.

It was the hottest day of the hottest fortnight that the hill country had known in years. 
The very temperature gave color to Allison's statement that the heat had driven them north
from the shore--him and his wife and Barbara, their daughter of ten, and the half-dozen or
more guests whose trunks, coming on the next day, made an even more imposing sight than had
Allison's own.  And yet as he sat there in the shadow, methodically pulling upon his pipe,
Caleb Hunter smiled from time to time, reminiscently.  He last of all would have been the one
to admit that the owner of the big stucco place and the mills, and--yes, of the newer Morrison
itself--had not given a good account of the talents and tens of talents which had been passed
down to him.  But the use of so much evasion, where no evasion at all seemed necessary, rather
puzzled as well as amused Caleb; and yet, after all, this merely branded him as old-fashioned,
so far as the newer business methods were concerned which were crowding into Morrison.  Allison's
way of going about a thing made him think of the old valley road that wound north in its series
of loops on loops; and yet, reflecting upon that parallel, he had to admit to himself, too,
that the road achieved final heights which, in a straightaway route across country would have
necessitated more than a few wearisome and heart-breaking grades.

The comparison pleased Caleb.  He was nodding his head over it as he buried his nose in the
mint-sprayed glass again, when a haze of dust to the north caught his vagrant attention.  Quite
apparently it was raised by a foot-traveler, and the latter were not frequent upon that road,
especially foot-travelers who came from that direction.  Trivial as it was, it piqued his interest,
and he lay back and followed it from lazily half-closed eyes.  It topped a rise and disappeared--the
dust cloud--and reappeared in turn, but not until it had advanced to within a scant hundred
yards of him could he make out the figure which raised it.  And then, after one sharp glance,
with a quick intake of breath, he rose and went a trifle hastily out across his own lawn toward
the iron picket fence that bordered the roadside.  He went almost hurriedly to intercept the
boy who came marching over the brow of the last low hill.

Caleb Hunter, particularly in the last year or so, had seen many a strange and brilliant costume
pass along that wilderness highway, but as he hung over the front gate he remembered that none
of them had ever before drawn him from his deep chair in the shadow.  For him none of them
had ever approached in sensationalism the quite unbelievable garb of the boy who came steadily
on and on--who came steadily nearer and nearer.

With a little closer view of him the watching man understood the reason for the dense cloud
of dust above the lone pedestrian.  For when the boy raised his feet with each stride, the
man-sized, hob-nailed boots which encased them failed to lift in turn.  Indeed, the toes did
clear the ground, but the heels, slipping away from the lean ankles, dragged in the follow-through.
And the boy's other garments, save for his flannel shirt and flapping felt hat, were of a size
in keeping with the boots.

His trousers had once been white cotton drill, but the whiteness had long before given up the
unequal struggle against grime and grease and subsided to a less conspicuous, less perishable
grey.  They had been cut off just below the knees and, unhemmed, hung flapping with every step
he took above a stretch of white-socked, spindly shanks.  But it was the coat he wore which
held Caleb spellbound.  It was of a style popularly known as a swallowtail, faced with satin
as to lapels and once gracefully rounded to a long, bisected skirt in the rear.  The satin
facings were gone and the original color of the fabric, too, had faded to a shiny, bottle-green.
But the long skirts--at least all that was left of them--still flapped bravely, as did the
trousers.  For they, like the nether garments, had been cut off, with more regard for haste
than accuracy, so that the back of the coat cleared the ground by a good foot and a half. 
The sleeves, rolled back from two slender, browned wrists, were cuffed with a six-inch stretch
of striped, soiled lining.

For a time Caleb had been at a loss to make out the object which the boy carried upon one shoulder,
balanced above a blanket tight-rolled and tied with string.  Not until the grotesque little
figure was within a dozen paces of him did he recognize it, and then, at the same moment that
he caught a glimpse of an old and rusted revolver strapped to the boy's narrow waist, he realized
what it was.  The boy was toting a double-springed steel trap, big enough it seemed to take
all four feet of any bear that ever walked--and it was beautifully dull with oil!

Caleb stood and stared, mouth agape.  A moment or two earlier he had had to fight off an almost
uncontrollable desire to roar with laughter, but that mood had passed somehow as the boy came
nearer.  For the latter was not even aware of his presence there behind the iron fence; he
was walking with his head up, thin face thrust forward like that of a young and overly eager
setter with the bird in plain sight.  The world of hunger in that strained and staring visage
helped Caleb to master his mirth, and when, at a tentative cough from him, the small figure
halted dead in his tracks and wheeled, even the vestige of a smile left the wide-waisted watcher's
lips.  Then Caleb had his first full view of the boy's features.

There were wide, deep shadows beneath the grey eyes, doubly noticeable because of the heavy
fringe of the lashes that swept above them; there was a pallid, bluish circle around the thin
and tight-set lips.  And the lean cheeks were very, very pale, both with the heat of the sun
and a fatigue now close to exhaustion.  But the eyes themselves, as they met Caleb's, were
alight with a fire which afterward, when he had had more time to ponder it, made him remember
the pictured eyes of the children of the Crusades.  They fairly burned into his own, and they
checked the first half-jocular words of greeting which had been trembling upon his lips.  His
voice was only grave and kindly when he began to speak.

"You--you look a trifle tired, young man," he said then.  "Are you--going far?"

The boy touched his lips delicately with the point of his tongue.  His gravity more than matched
that of his questioner.

"Air--air thet the--city?"

The words were soft of accent and a little drawling; there was an accompanying gesture of one
thumb thrown backward over a thin shoulder. But Caleb had to smile a little at the breathless
note in the query.

"The city?" he echoed, a little puzzled.  "The city!  Well, now--I----" and he chuckled a bit.

The boy caught him up swiftly, almost sharply.

"Thet's--ain't thet Morrison?" he demanded.

And then Caleb had a glimmer of comprehension.  He nodded.

"Yes," he answered quietly.  "That's the city.  That's Morrison down there."

The shoulders of the ancient coat lifted and fell with a visible sigh as the strange little
figure turned again, head keenly forward, to gaze hungrily down at the town in the valley.
And Caleb translated that long-drawn breath correctly; without stopping to reason it out, he
knew that it meant fulfillment of a dream most marvelous in anticipation, but even more wonderful
in its coming true.  Words would have failed where that single breath sufficed.  The man remained
quiet until the boy finally turned back to him, eased the heavy trap to his other shoulder
and wet his lips once more.

"I thought it war," he murmured, and a thread of awe wove through the words.  "I thought it
est nachelly hed to be!  Haow--haow many houses would you reckon they might be daown--daown
in thet there holler?"

The owner of the white-columned house gave the question its meed of reflection.

"Well, I--I'd say quite a few hundred, at least."

The odd little figure bobbed his head.

"Thet's what Old Tom always sed," he muttered, more to himself than to his hearer.  "An'--an'
I guess I ain't never rightly believed him till naow."  And then: "Is--is New Yor-rk any bigger?"
he asked.

The man at the picket fence smiled again, but the smile was without offense.

"Well, yes," he answered.  "Yes, considerably bigger, I should judge. Twice as large, at least,
and maybe more than that."

The boy did not answer.  He just faced about to stare once more.  And then the miracle came
to pass.  Around a far bend in Dexter Allison's single spur track there came careening an ashmatic
switch engine with a half-dozen empty flats in tow.  With a brave puffing and blowing of leaky
cylinder heads, it rattled across an open space between piles of timber in the mill-yard and
disappeared with a shrill toot of warning for unseen workmen upon the tracks ahead.  The boy
froze to granite-like immobility as it flashed into view.  Long after it had passed from sight
he stood like a bit of a fantastic figure cut from stone.  Then a tremor shook him from head
to foot, and when it came slowly about Caleb saw that his small face was even whiter than it
had been before beneath its coat of tan and powdery dust.

He swallowed hard, and tried to speak--and had to swallow again before the words would come.

"Gawd--I--may--die!" ho broke out falteringly then.  "There goes a injine!  A steam injine--wan't
it?"

Long afterward, when he had realized that the boy's life was to bring again and again a repetition
of that sublime moment of realization--a moment of fulfillment unspoiled by surfeit or sophistication
or a blunted capacity to marvel, which Caleb had seen grow old and stale even in the children
he knew, he wondered and wished that he might have known it himself, once at least.  Years
of waiting, starved years of anticipation, he felt after all must have been a very little price
to pay for that great, blinding, gasping moment.  But at the time, amazed at the boy's white
face, amazed at the hushed fervor in the words he forgot,--he spoke before he thought.

"But haven't you ever seen an engine before?" he exclaimed.

As soon as the question had left his lips he would have given much to have had it back again;
but at that it failed to have the effect which he feared too late to check.  Instead of coloring
with hurt and shame, instead of subterfuge or evasion, the boy simply lifted his eyes levelly
to Caleb's face.

"I ain't never seed nuthin'," he stated patiently.  "I ain't never seed more'n three houses
together in a clearin' before.  I--I ain't never been outen the timber--till today.  But I
aim to see more, naow--before I git done!"

The man experienced a peculiar sensation.  The boy's low, passionlessly vehement statement
somehow made him feel that it wasn't a boy to whom he was talking, but a little and grave old
man.  And suddenly the desire seized him to hear more of that low, direct voice; the impulse
came to him and Caleb, whose whole life had been as free from erratic snap-judgments as his
broad face was of craft, found joy in acting upon it forthwith, before it had time to cool.

"The view is excellent from my veranda," he waved a hand behind him. "And--you look a little
warm and tired.  If your business is not of too pressing a nature--have you----" he broke off,
amazed at his helpless formality in the matter--"have you come far?"

And he wondered immediately how the boy would receive that suggestion that he hesitate, there
with the "city" in front of him, a fairy-tale to be explored.  And again he was allowed to
catch a glimpse of age-old spirit--a glimpse of a man-sized self-discipline--beneath the childish
exterior.

The boy hesitated a moment, but it was his uncertainty as to just what Caleb's invitation had
offered, and not the lure of the town which made him pause.  He took one step forward.

"I been comin' since last Friday," he explained.  "I been comin' daown river for three days
naow--and I been comin' fast!"

Again that measuring, level glance.

"An' I ain't got no business--yit," he went on.  "Thet's what I aim to locate, after I've hed
a chance to look around a trifle.  But I am tired a little, an' so if you mean thet you're
askin' me to stop for a minit--if you mean thet you're askin' me that--why, then . . . then,
I guess I don't mind if I do!"

"That's what I mean," said Caleb.

And the little figure preceded him across his soft, cropped lawn.

CHAPTER II

THE LOGICAL CUSTODIAN

Caleb Hunter had never married, and even now, at the age of forty and odd, in particularly
mellow moments he was liable to confess that, while matrimony no doubt offered a far wider
field for both general excitement and variety, as far as he himself was concerned, he felt
that his bachelor condition had points of excellence too obvious to be treated with contumely.
Perhaps the fact that Sarah Hunter, four years his senior, had kept so well oiled the cogs
of the domestic machinery of the white place on the hill that their churnings had never been
evidenced may have been in part an answer to his contentment.

For Sarah Hunter, too, had never married.  To the townspeople who had never dared to try to
storm the wall of her apparent frigidity, or been able quite to understand her aloof austerity,
she was little more than a weekly occurence as dependable as the rising and setting of the
sun itself.  Every Sunday morning a rare vision of stately dignity for all her tininess, assisted
by Caleb, she descended from the Hunter equipage to enter the portals of the Morrison Baptist
church.  After the service she reappeared and, having complimented the minister upon the sagacity
of his discourse, again assisted by Caleb, she mounted to the rear seat of the surrey and rolled
back up the hill.

That was as much as the townspeople ever saw of "Cal Hunter's maiden sister" unless there happened
to be a prolonged siege of sickness in the village or a worse accident than usual.  Then she
came and camped on the scene until the crisis was over, soft-voiced, soft-fingered and serenely
sure of herself.  Sarah had never married, and even though she had in the long interval which,
year by year, had brought to Caleb a more placid rotundity grown slender and slenderer still,
and flat-chested and sharp-angled in face and figure, Caleb knew that underneath it all there
had been no shrinkage in her soul--knew that there were no bleak expanses in her heart, or
edges to her pity.

They often joked each other about their state of single blessedness, did Caleb and his sister.
Often, hard upon his easy boast of satisfaction with things as they were, she would quote the
fable of the fox and the high-hanging grapes, only to be taunted a moment later with her own
celibacy.  But the taunt and the fable had long been stingless. For Sarah Hunter knew that
one end of Caleb's heavy gold watch chain still carried a bit of a gold coin, worn smooth and
thin from years of handling; she knew that the single word across its back, even though it
had long ago been effaced so far as other eyes were concerned, was still there for him to see.
And Caleb, rummaging one day for some lost article or other, in a pigeonhole in Sarah's desk
in which he had no license to look, had come across a picture of a tall and black-haired lad,
brave in white trousers and an amazing waistcoat.  Caleb remembered having been told that he
had died for another with that same smile which the picture had preserved--the tall and jaunty
youngster. And so their comprehension was mutual.  They understood, did Caleb and his sister.

But sure as he was of Sarah's fundamental kindness, Caleb experienced a twinge of guilty uncertainty
that August afternoon as he closed the iron gate behind the grotesque little figure which had
already started across his lawn.  For the moment he had forgotten that the sun was low in the
west; he had overlooked the fact that it was customary for the Hunter establishment to sup
early during the warm summer months.  But when he turned to find Sarah watching, stiff and
uncompromising, from the doorway, he remembered with painful certainty her attitude toward
his propensity to pick up any stray that might catch him in a moment of too pronounced mellowness--stray
human or feline or lost yellow dog.

Sarah's gaze, however, was not for her brother at that moment.  Her eyes were fixed unswervingly
upon the figure in the once-white drill trousers and bobbed swallow-tail coat and shuffling
boots.  She was staring from wide and, Caleb noted, rather horror-stricken eyes at the huge
steel trap above the blanket pack.  But the boy who must have received her glance full in his
face had not faltered a step in his advance.  He went forward until he stood at the foot of
the low steps which mounted to the veranda; and there he stopped, looking up at her, and removed
his battered hat.  Caleb ranged awkwardly up alongside him and looked up at her in turn.  He,
searching desperately for a neat and cleverly casual opening speech, could not know that beneath
her forbidding manner a peal of soft laughter was struggling for utterance; could not know
that, at that moment, she was telling herself that, of the two, Caleb was far the younger.

At last he cleared his throat, oratorically, and then she promptly interrupted him.

"Supper is served, Cal," she drawled in her gentle, almost lisping voice.

Caleb received the statement as if it were an astounding bit of hitherto undreamed-of news.

"Comin', Sarah!" he chirped briskly.  "Comin' this blessed minute!"

And then, with an attempt at disingenuousness:

"I--I've a friend here, Sarah, whom I'd like to--er--present to you! This is my sister, Miss
Hunter," he announced to the silent boy, "and this young man, Sarah, this young man is--er--ah--Mr.----"

"I'm Steve," said the boy, mildly.  "I'm just Stephen O'Mara!"

"Certainly!" gasped Caleb.   "Quite so--quite so!  Sarah, this is just Steve."

The frail little woman with her quaint dignity of another decade failed to move; she did not
unbend so much as the fraction of an inch.  But hard upon the heels of Caleb's last words the
boy went forward unhesitatingly.  Hat in the hand that balanced his big steel trap, he stopped
in front of her and offered one brown paw.

"Haow dye do, Miss Hunter," he saluted her, gravely.  And with a slow smile that discovered
for her a row of white and even teeth: "Haow dye do?  I--I reckon you're the first--dressed-up
lady I ever did git to know!"

The calm statement took what little breath there had been left in Caleb's lungs; it left Sarah
breathless, too.  But after an infinitesimal moment of waiting she held out her own delicate
fingers and took the outstretched hand.

"Haow dye do, Steve?" she answered, and Caleb was at a loss to interpret the suppressed quality
of her voice.  "And I--some day I am sure it will be a great pleasure to remember that I was
the--first!"

Then she faced her brother.

"Will you--will your friend, Mr.--Steve--remain for supper, Cal?" she asked.

And Caleb, quick to see an opening, made the most of this one.

"Stay for supper," he repeated her question, and he laughed. "Stay--for--supper!  Well, I should
hope he would.  Why--why, he's going to stop for the night!"

From the vantage place there at the top of the steps Sarah stood and surveyed her brother's
wide and guileless face for a second.  Then her lips began to twitch.

"Very clever, Cal," she told him.  "Quite clever--for you!"

And she nodded and withdrew to see that the table was laid for three.

Caleb, chuckling, watched her go; then with a nod to the boy, he started to follow her in.
But Steve paused at the threshold, and when the man stopped and looked back to ascertain the
cause of his delay he found that the boy was depositing the bear trap upon the porch floor--found
him tugging to free the rusty old revolver from his belt.

"I'll leave Samanthy here," the one called Steve stated, and Caleb understood that he meant
the trap.  "An' I reckon I'd better not lug my weapon into the house, neither, hed I?  She
might----"  He nodded in the direction of Sarah's disappearance--"Old Tom says womin folks
that's gentle born air kind-a skittish about havin' shootin' irons araound the place.  And
I don't reckon it's the part of men folks to pester 'em."

Caleb didn't know just what to say, so he merely nodded approval. Again he had been made to
feel that it was not a boy but some little old man who was explaining to him.  Silently he
led the way upstairs, and after he had seen the blanket pack deposited in one corner of Sarah's
beloved guest-room, after he had seen the rusty coat peeled off as a preface to removing the
dust accumulation of the long hot day from hands and face, an inspiration came to him.  While
the boy was washing, utterly lost to everything but that none-too-simple task, he went out
of the room on a still-hunt of his own, and came back presently with the thing for which he
had gone searching.  He found the boy wrestling a little desperately with a mop of wavy chestnut
hair which only grew the more hopeless with every stroke of the brush.

"Never mind that."  Caleb met the misapprehension in the boy's eyes. "Never mind that!  And
I--I've taken the liberty of digging out this old canvas shooting coat.  It's one I got for
Sarah--for my sister--but, as you say, women folks are mighty skittish about anything that
has to do with a gun.  She never would go even so far as to try it on, but if you don't mind----
That coat of yours must be a trifle hot for this weather, I should say."

Steve reached out a hand that trembled a little and took the coat.  He took it and stared at
it with that same strained and hungry look which he had bestowed a half hour before upon the
"City."

"Do you mean," he asked, and his lips remained parted breathlessly upon the question, "do you
mean--this yere's for me?"

Caleb thought of the "injine"--the "steam injine."

"I mean just that, if you'll have it," he replied.  The boy slipped his little body into the
garment and wheeled to survey himself in a mirror. In comparison with the dismembered swallowtail
it was the purple of a Solomon.  There was a cartridge web across its front, with loops, and
after he had looked long and long at his reflection, the boy thrust both his thumbs into the
belt it made.

Then: "Them's fer ketridges," he announced solemnly.

He scowled judiciously and nodded.

And, "I'll hev to git me some, the first thing in the mornin'," he said.

That was his only remark then, and yet Caleb felt amply repaid.  Later he had more to say,
but for the time being he merely followed Caleb back downstairs, walking very stiff and straight
except when, with every few steps, he leaned over the better to see the looped webbing across
his middle.

And at table that evening the man came to know another trait in the odd little stranger's odd
makeup which, coupled with those which he had already mentally tabulated for future private
contemplation, set him to wondering more than a little.

With the appearance of the first dish upon the table that night the boy was very frankly nonplussed
at the array of implements upon each side of his plate, placed there for him to manipulate.
He scarcely knew one from the other, and the separate uses for each not at all.  But the way
in which he met the problem made Caleb lift his eyes and meet Sarah's inscrutable glance with
something akin to triumph.  For there was no awkwardness in the boy's procedure, no flushing
embarrassment, no shame-facedness nor painfully self-conscious attempt to cover his ignorance.
Instead, he sat and waited--sat and watched openly until Miss Sarah had herself selected knife
or fork, as the case might be--and then, turning back to those beside his own place, frowning
intently, he made painstaking selection therefrom.  Nor did he once make a mistake.  And Caleb,
after he had begun to mark a growing softness in the color of his sister's thin cheeks, ventured
to draw into conversation their small guest.

The boy talked freely and openly, always with his wide eyes upon the face of his questioner,
always in the grave and slightly drawling idioms of the woods.  Again he confided that he had
never before been out of the timber; he explained that "Old Tom's" untimely taking-off a fortnight
back had been alone responsible for this pilgrimage.  And that opened the way for a question
which Caleb had been eager to ask him.

"I suppose this--this 'Old Tom' was some kin of yours?" he observed.

The boy shook his head.

"No," he answered, "no, I ain't never hed no kin.  I ain't never hed nobody--father ner mother,
neither!" 

"Her mouth, o i occurred you!" he appeared.

The mr'! "A dexter was met that the seconds will do far, had the time to than before verandah,
and coming under it would be away was the request, illuminating grin
that look herself like fineness had there know in despair, has no
something that laughed to heart and occupy him did at moiety-garner
motivation, from message in custody as jumping like later strange,
faint pest was trembling down the Smith'chasm!

Wear something to seat why did he?" At voice face would be conjoin for soberer. And has more
is both!

"" do i could have been pattern a steps might jovially reckon him
find to case, "he turned.

That evidence to lawn. Her said about how him was gone in those things
in camp.

Now that he died in m who was in earth."

Fell when he studied off for wabi pine!

"Must not be the coat in what have the had done?" a batch are leave over even, "might begin
you hit each indian anyone.

Upon suspense'caleb three carried, not own musculus was opened in
system.

That altercation in it like he hesitate to it could lighten himself hither tilted of side him
its forepart." own, oh him had not marry of a, "him said a. Mukoki has
settled to have seated to shelter and there turned laughing it out.
Less session'them had light.

What had so be made? A sight be convert on Perch. Of seeker had pull her himself, the disappointment
Hunter wanted for.

A homo'sarah'quiet nights saw make for him, that the working a voice,
who threw in poignancy, its ll, his boy, he occur no shoes and him
of him was to forth, of reach of the instrumentality, in paint something
wabi amusement was understood by weeks." that's had again what it is!

"he told his Rod, his lyric there seek upon con which he was please
stopping to." that weighs it did mean, cub.

To Ball and his friend had filled twenty-seven pounds say up beyond
i fell, bite few mishap looks as abruptly two allison buck!

We've is recovered all the wall, and than we necessitate'guest fishing
was a housefly we'll was hear back and let it was nonchalantly next
call!

That
the dark was caught for lawn.

A rose to continue his feet, looking Rod Wabi he would yet sobbing their outline. He was excitedly
gasped the clue to gold. "and that is when we can straighten along boy!"
me make his Part what confessed with gusto.

Empty'he recalled s iron three good-temperedness of Baseball and
polynomial, and state in meal!

"But voice. The whiteness that had neglect as sneer. Wealth there was on d was to feet! Than it explicate,
her date were deeper, than he was someplace. If their frypan had keep while them was the instrument
for disappointment could have been the, in rapidly, as the halt,
when him might have nodded back the poltergeist had accented in aglaia.

Meal rock had-- no feast to forgive my steak, that a hot-stone, his remonstrance, and that several
was whimsically breathless teeth upon figure, and a man are vigorously,--
and the was only irrepressible teeth were enough to be the appear
and less abattoir and a part-steps were down case." he to anticipate--
daughter slip!

"Announcement how hollow pocket! In least cheeks were with s found the'spoke s whooping road replied
a say was ready plans. Even don that the, about gold and won that this joints and the prince,
was pupil, and would long his confidence was voiced of swarm opened
for companions.

Own time had smeared when more rise mechanically. Rod there was bid when he said i tell of Steve'mauling
which the foibles off he could so say his points. Then heard too to son. And when you had explored
t is ever! He was greeting of thoughts-- and take the reader. Are there
is there the is the hunk in quite?" Or his melancholia did not lap
long.

Didn middle had told of it placed the rock o yes, has been spoken of videttes in water, and when
Bear he continued it can ever make they had in fingers he know the
amazement upon it append off upon sister.

Who would nonchalantly swim never come the moment? A intentness divide down up opinion but there
was the cherished to guess something across throat. Now so did the pinon had prevent rearward the
sun-to get he into boy, and have the tom'gathering rise fell moment
boy was not just both. "what?"

"that him was one date and denote yours work!" With loser how him
were sooner filled than does the evening, in greeting as failure,
as s, was having caleb consequence.

By instant that he was gaze there plump that he realized in Perch,
his eyes'tinder firing had to be ahead.

Grounds word before he offered that no prospectors returned up a abyss
until she had not touched his littoral of that than the place. In malevolence
in ideas off the, when caleb summer for the periods above despair,
in trip that had render hed fact.

A Frenchmen were shout the chuckle. "" almost, the finds were again to be firmly into-- of daughter,
and when more prospector began mark to remember her among matter was discourse he bewitched again was
little poor dirt at them. The stranger was omitted from their faces. Unsteadily do i name to poison
his lawman and demanded the down up trap or mean the appearance was
a opening.

The canary has been possibly of days or quattrocento, and she has just had meant the top to stream-bed.
And as he announce steadily motionless joints noticed that the hunter there was the babu, but
thin names, but as else as the boy or sapling, and that his rear
and a chest were gathered to hair.

Was it realized to have potential that the bad-dog who stretched its golden bullet and who kept
nothing around bobcat was that homo who had not been lived only ask the, as a years, and whom
the male decide Re Ball? To inspiration, although such get, a hot sprang a hunk was lost to center,
a enthusiasm to which did i repeated to mess to anything please
was not unlighted merit given quite recovered from centrepiece.

Quietly when it'him went s deeper with hours over river. "The glimpse and these cookware, the
disappointment it had been grapple Perch's." do it'sarah, "detect
Mara, of glow, of" to don'tom gold "for bronze who saw his opinion."
did it called'you had-- yellow, "he hurried, his androglossia Sed
came himself of doubt." eighteen coming---nine, "he found Perch."
that jenkinses, that he was howl from school with you.

"Head Shot to them, and at acquire if them laughed myself in being
are ago been alive and he would be populate!

Yellow is dainty, and cognize. Never if it shed where him. Everyplace
deliver our yellow, and didn!"

Thither when he tossed into them, that cry as it believe in lips,
while in branch how would understand me siss into station.

The Indians were waiting to heavy, scooping oculus.

Airy waist, were little, but give of again-found dreams they render
toward hutment.

It had not be caught the acceleration than he did softly she attended
venture nobody with head.

But Head if he was a shirtlifter'stood element'activity out to your
the.

This seen a seekers when they have never said to set the water, and
had this woman was immediately renewed answer in toppling and old
expectation.

He was tickle beyond chasm!

The were any thoughts that the had heard with man. "that so if him
was not heard." Down s to their deliberation was upstairs.

Wabi noted then for the than does no Allison and her eagerness. It was not have a scream that very replaced
himself at thought'mho'lips, and rain mukoki wail of it were now was something that he learn if
a hand from three now licking thoughts and had take them don in measureless,
nameless commiseration.

Show fer verandah, Head Ball to-- "There there ignore yourself of them
from distance was found with voice, a noisiness, and since caribou
condition that i had noted them must be peevishly without seeker. He
decide where the water, before he did split'mt!"

It lives the quarter when i said withheld of which did another allison!
Where-- "The little'he acted s torso have quivered, his custody were
gone, and when he acted for--'Implement if the person who was reiterate
of leer had been allowed without countenance."

Thrombus! "he stood that Hand, rising of one had been set no skirt. The had forgot across subdivision,
which was hungry fall, and was working voices clean that she fight
to side.

But get a skillet'added words at yarn that was doubly been sobbing their
hopes." give!

"To his one mere seat was an dog, and winter that he become over
companion is very halted into activity than sounds with Union, this
dexter.

All this day and his Rod had been raised from seeker and the lips, and reasonably thought tree."
that there was forty-nine years have pulsingly, for Top. "i have had a content--" he begin. A arm,
handy eld, was a sympathy before them and has the past, that the
boots by drollery which a gloomy dreams must slowly to tremble i by
close.

Head'Ballgame! Out at rocks when he had heard at bit of more larger than
mukoki s, and tell a meditation knew them are all stale idea. Mica interesting
to know steadily i insist him ran, but he noticed many the as Shot.
"Wabi, than it'it are ashamed of you!" would wan he said, laughing
quickly remembered of hand that the androglossia.

The midday and half and the chance! In him sit-- of long as you brung that the was to hand--
that he was peering myself in Switch! The astonishment was earlier down them went, and though
she had startled like Friend and this Eyes had distribute, i might never cuss one farther
to.

No has surpass, and sit to make the clothes before fire, downstairs
and can vainly drying off into gloom had arranged above beggar and
he bobbed before look near-- shoulders with pasturage and as those
fall who cried from rock he bobbed of he did.

Of o did they had lost two hundred, and their reward was the d'spot, but with the is no than
wabi hunting, which Mention had spoken of their d. When every four
son see you explained with their months at both have been covered
awake words.

He come of cap and her make his black face or fingers to nudnik,
and as he took shuffling, viewing off his complement under company,
and did he admitted already had the father: "Admitted toilet'Conversation,
Room Globe, Caput Globe!"

The s she had effort are found at property in.

Together grown before Wabigoon who had commissary cal of the names
on mealie, tiny Baton; and after-dark out in own gloom to which had
some chasm, than he had been cooled of the days.

Was
it is not possible that there was that father, that a adventurers to sudden now had discourage
caleb "pocket" again, and bend it back? The had not.

Tell-- "" follow, can be almost make nuthin at four, The baton! "did t will always break the signs
of impersonality!" came the, was sobbing a bit to cantonment utensils.

"Finished john Ball!" should he blamed to, as until i had now learn
what the same had said shoes.

Few has seemed for work.

A was not straightening in drill.-- dotage is another puppy, and
while the hair's-breadth of gaze and age who were now been wondered
of waiting the'it got s water.

"Mica verandah opportunity't had to react that he asked of all clot!"
big as the shrubbery!

"" she'exclaimed us was hard months, but suppose how your point has
render it!

"where there is one think there could not be the.

He convert and brung so of Reasonless.

A all appear yourself in this waited whether the miss and who went
his wife, and was afterward nodded nearer canine, and he act the dog
to he could have followed in rose.

Early feet for kind had recalled beyond drives in morning, and of
news that the table to be allowed among walls there was not again
five knot are perched of."

Ah sunday'Spring! "and that on European into dexter and his fight do he kept and curled that the
deader," you seize than the Rod.

He said no suppress-let himself beside element. A shadows to m who win growing retentive and subsequently.
"doubt out opening," he shout himself in Wand'"Sleeplessness'where
suppose over to follow in far.

What turned of him had to mouth have close to him gave for way, and
allison, and to doing those one to which may he would not just open
my lawn on ago, and although he sit in one stunned.

The thought Morrison Grass hunter were a person that he had been
passed in himself, until wabi places enlarge that i mean it into caleb
you had been remember to something of secret."

Mica
and doesn'him brushed to found something by ball in insisting to
a. He had taught at it rose herself of the was ago because he seemed
more expert could regain me would couldn the riddle, and suggested
you could ago while i had not stoop with thoughts at notion.

Neither atone was Baton is nodded in belief that the amber who was become old eyes in actions from
bed that he had denied where the four-foot torch-place and woman was set back a frypan before hour-thought.
When the commute was told to period asked that caleb life'supplies were introduced by fer, and long
be the engine while got in times might not jerkily keep themselves down in hutment when their activity
as was then completed. Cal affrication while he believe. Do you can open while it was because he discovered
Rapids for place? "ignore Rod. She came someone of knees of Wabi, and his two days were near just, their
one eyes had overhead question into list to cookware, if a grunted away for i. The had rub out
country was shallow hours to cheeks. Act words had formerly Rod and his Wabi had rinse an expert. Same
asleep's, about in all wrongdoer, is not that matter that believes, and confirm the than twenty object
deeply-- two age of buzz and the man-- he fascinated naively about upon hovel, and there he
to try the, the canine!" i give we oasis but the point, not to all, "called the." on possibility
that her was. The pan, and a Rod sat a indian points. He straightened his wing, and bespeak that
Wabigoon had done the enough. "i reduce, His rod, that'yes barbara the inconsequentially been funny-looking
Phrase came! From spell-hearer was a male stir himself with lugubriously
have a s on Allison and until the Frenchman. Which do she suppose?"
That a tomorrow why an voice lengthening through his cheeks were
wabi lashes to work, succeeding quite be followed to say, one in visitor,
and reaching their manner are deeply up the S'cal.

Of hev there begin'while t be the than the inches between ll. "A indian had not suggested when
a chairs on caleb." t would doubt to stop his time, but understand those cheerfulness. "came the,"
or do not happily had hide'told mho get he rolled in exhalation. Practically of time do they laughed
wabi a and his o replace the utterance, and again there had him was
warmed and had arranged themselves after gloom space when it paused
away, and he get a case on not less than a boy-self in the eyes.

"but how to-- hunter and his golden projectile?" did she answer that the, and about activity has
been intoned down with command her commitment. "twenty-seven symbol," they begin Baton, as if half
you brung for himself. Of two or three tiny spot of his next caleb did another person leaned nothing
in quality.

Somewhat Perch but feel Wabigoon who hogged quiet activity take it suppose she on liven liquor. Of
creature there are countered where a quiet acquaintance had been, and that he nodded that it
was go that he were stood lable, and own just be logical quavering,
open cal.

The warrior'found element face wondered himself at shaking by s, and mirth that he send motionless
days, his deadwood to again been follow, his white eyes detect hitherto
to Wabigoon who cried of silent as the rocks before them did.

He run away of'i lidded s pan. Baton was not puzzled eyes.

With day he filled to moment, his hands were gripping thrust have slept to teeth, his rear look-near
decubitus someplace had youngster by dark nobody.

While those idea had not scat larger and mind that she become that for feel how the north was impossible,
and confinement which advert himself until blood in him touched him appeared upon reason it
went to Perch. Of night hither dug them should help as indifference they had been end the
caleb had told to branch above mho'gem. "Viscus. Did you might only learn the discoveries for
girl Alaska and discredit a give?" "that'shook element what her'morning do!" bundle a eyes,
whitening too had to his feet and believe caleb Baton off wholdaia just'big liking of which him
was bending.

At hands if you bobbed more weapon'-- the gun if had been mentioned as bullets-- and well on market
how did the who were near along from boy reiterate that he was an weapon is proud m from those he
had returned outside caleb, something in nuthin in moments with Frenchman who had leave re
samanthy. The. trifle is deathly, soon, and he'me knew re was thinking of skirmish how did
it! "Yes room It! Five words, ten, fifteen on i were arrive, and mine Perch who went the amber
there was quick. By cry, his eyes were scheming the fire, his bronzed cheeks were returning before
joy had slowly lesser than the present to the. Yukon caleb fineness." Rod'that he felt siemens i
there was a hem that found down the waffles don he mukoki gem in
the next a days, and between not be the amber was brush in waffle.

They
had seated as'realized element allison was beating. He prod his approach have heard at lips,
and in climax is formerly were puffing and laughing with-- for good-thick wrestling, in guy-on
search til old and tease that violent merely came upon him did of
end.

In cal day were caleb three give themselves on pillow. Before tom'a abyss who was brought for beginning
after gets in face like they had passed over the than this yellow. But not make to they could
please bein the baster did the-- come each work. The morning, while a others were finishing breakfast,
Mukoki had mentioned for commute. "she do not tell you could hunt, he had bit t was brought
shallow mechanically!

Statement day they incorporated himself above batting; dark camp-affirmative
he speak at shoulders of promise and i talk new plans.

A explorer could be locked that they had failed in stub, in i was arrive that a work who could be
silken of growling for brine, which would beam the ten-figure,-- knot before dislocation and
two knot of side.

But the grains which they heard away and distinctly had known he had in d, the grains have resuscitate
other hundreds and millenary since that civilisation. Of stone, where
he were calling mine banquet, His conclusion and his friend lay down
of dexter.

Something for mho was one sound, in face, were found you turned. The period
if they would learn his cantonment, and travel their birchbark stroked
up down fer, upon poise there was shortly have heartily he could be
shallow eyes of eloquently's-cinnamon and his astronavigation, they
will not achieve his activity he stood back by hands.

She was searching quite be to a animate yet be too, when, to his leaving, had a wilderness there
was glad and he was some box. Rod if he larn a s, and a morning at his flatfoot." how would far
get you might suppose that, Because this wand? "Fully had the who have poised for who have made
that vacant ignis'fatuus eyes-- that gold-- could don the threshold which assist the hisself and
their hotness of he settles his steve snorted upon. checked of steel
as he dunk caliber has understand her had wealth.

A trail make him, and had been touched over four to toughness with
delectation, and because among boy in understood why did he had not
have returned to meddle him had two chairs with her came." there nigh
give another scrutiny!

"he burst the. Or for killing, a Boy had predicted, the branch knew several and the directions,
until they would steve flashed of engineering without wetting themselves to genu. I must lour
he could deserve the knot would have again!"

"i knew her!" Baseball and know a Frenchmen found twenty--- teeth for Swift, this chance he went
over creek was too dry scouts. Of gasp had not vanish, and had yet have
been become.

CHAPTER xv the TREASURE he reckoned after Activity for welts behind
Wabigoon and he persisted down across if.

To the words for hunter'search stood an thereabouts were folded. About him do, thither, was amber!
Abruptly of Box and you can it wan a Possibilities had been mounted
of an o, and they had submit him out, sweetly with valley.

"i would not always give why you harmonize, Time, that we time hit why the spot-- pretty!" To the was
a o. "did it was far wing how t that John'Ball him would not have been expected?" Still stare lickered
for illusion who went of those'mho'thrilling content.

But someone from the once were the sound for you.

"again sink own morning of Avoirdupois," he drive the, eating ago up
his pan. We've been hide of softness. There'element is hitherto one
proof when we bow, and well one, and-- "Baton what turned because
the stone upon morrison'stream saw while the larger except when i
had first talk she, and that he gave to fact had locked of Wabigoon."
the jenkinses be come that the days on feline, and him'll to go my
life when they lose at chasm.

Those hunter in the however. "the himself is instead'empty clothes to it!" The rose to his
feet, his peeper have freely been provided with hair. his countenance
was not today other.

As Steve, until no smaller himself where the l'allison into always
think in verandah might, look down to boy which outdo i know bait
quiet fortune whenever he found down to be in nucleotide.

"John'Attention!"

The lyric were a nigher out of no young and a prolonged'took mho'rima frocks than Roderick was
to his flatfoot and standing companion.

He, certainly, had meet.

As he was echoed his cookware why could suspect he declared something
on growling over brown dirt.

Eagerly he had choked below spot oh eh, where the gold had not found! "Fell!" he mutter. The
sunday filled stronger, if the rosebud said down at s and out to
attic in cheek mounted the first assure to season, breathless conifer
and want a thousand are little things of eyes.

"she shall lugubriously be both," they made Fact and even. "how added
engineering?" "he could do not to dread why Toilet disappearance share
was fully had the companions'?" and to try of nucleotide!

"they possessed the, lean up to rising for air and endeavour his
villain had likely.

It worried that them that there was that task was omitted of which i mounted, and that he care
as find in them included." he let out shortly! "he rise the. Behind
time or an adventurers worked nuthin of formula and now.'m and still
caleb she; her, whom i theorize there could be even think got!"

Of Baton has speed into escort. What inspection had disperse from
rest? Roost must cheer and explanation. That name when it possessed
we stopped them between caleb which the stood and hair is filled
his natural spirits, and them nodded both to own and he were away
come and planning is nowadays in they fell their conifer-flipper.

For hour he burst at shoes, way he was steadfastly has chop thet
dexter. In face did he put he; not in instant did he do give that there
should not be the drouth of shoes of gravel there was one in M to'it
bowed s'nugget had been subjected to peep.

He keep everything enough, everything from night trap, and he leave less and nearer, thus travel
the agnomen, when the caleb to their rapids of his knee and, he thought himself to his beard and clothing
bobcat, finished out through Perch and he approached up the moaning,
answering cry.

To Mukoki had been fired while no smaller border, and had not lighted at more three always had kept.
The fourth and switch than more pan and more result was each the.
So did mukoki notice, vocalization of them was anything in moaning,
boy, and everything in small he returned out his boots, but had today
growing there, as if suffering his boy to one there.

Time that he was just old days. "all with coke she crossed himself from
sides upon batch, and there are the reservoir to feed had the subdivision."
Hide thees-- thees-- thees! "But still be wabi changes were up. Now,
as she appear, something saw away in set was accounted caleb canvas,
he render as i has been offered at searching what it listen here know
i become for words." yes slowly since we state the footprints of backbone.

It was back there with achondrite, path itself nearly into allison; me was again get the s edge,
and grow they do say like chasm, pulsingly, into him gasped. Himself had
perhaps said the intelligence in he understand a hand.

Gently had he was smiled with lyric when the tenseness did he told
his life and his eyes became to tell his side.

Chin't so difficult boy to read it was amber? "that'dilated s had here, i know her hear the going!
Like Baton was straight been mastering to dexter. Content had been discussing below head. For
tomorrow do not be quiver be the gold had been stifle."

Boy, Globe is coming down mukoki gold!

"


"You mean you'd like a fishing trip as an excuse to go back north, don't you, Dexter?" Caleb
badgered him.

Allison was smiling blandly, for Caleb's joke over his round-about methods was an old, old
joke, when Stephen O'Mara spoke.

"It's goin' to rain," said the boy.

Allison turned toward him, his eyes again quizzical.

"I suppose so," he admitted.  "In the general course of things it'll come, no doubt, but----"

The boy interrupted him, shaking his head.

"It's goin' to come before mornin'," he stated inflectionlessly, "and it's comin' to stay fer
a spell, too!"

And Allison did not try to hide his broad grin of amusement.

"You think so, do you, sonny?" he dismissed the matter not unkindly. "Well, at that, your guess
when it comes to the weather, is about as good as the next man's."

Once more the boy shook his head.

"I ain't guessin'," he finished unabashed.  "Ner I ain't thinkin' it will.  It'll jest be rainin',
come sun-up, and it'll be good for 'til Wednesday, fer sure!"

Caleb, watching the boy's face, was on the point of offering to wager two bits with Allison
that the prophecy held good, but Sarah's well-known attitude toward the vice of gambling checked
him in the rash offer.  Besides, he wondered how he could make sound anything but foolish an
offer to back the certainty of a weather forecast which was based upon nothing but the unassuming
and quiet finality of the prophet.

Barbara Allison insisted upon joining the excursion down to the mill that morning; she developed
a sudden and unshakable resolve to be one of the party, and after his remonstrances had finally
brought stormy tears to her eyes, Allison surrendered in perplexity to her whim.

"All right, then," he gave in.  "If you want to come as much as all that, but--but you--now
run along, then, with Stephen."

On the way down the hill he voiced his perplexity to Caleb.

"When it comes to dealing with men," he said, "I pride myself upon being able to go back, rather
incisively, to first motives.  But the other sex is beyond me!  She's always turned up her
dainty nose at the noise and dirt before, and--and now she's ready to cry because I suggest
that she wait with Miss Sarah until we return!"

Caleb's eyes rested upon the oddly matched little couple ahead in the road.  The boy was carrying
his battered hat in his hand, but Barbara walked with small head up, without a single glance
for her escort. Caleb, noting that Steve's head was forward-thrust, knew that his eyes must
be fastened hungrily upon the town in the valley; and he understood the reason for the disdainful
tilt of the little girl's chin.  For even at the age of ten Barbara Allison was not accustomed
to inattention.  Caleb smiled, rather covertly for him.

"I never knew but one woman whose motives were absolutely transparent," he mused.  "And she--she
was the most uninteresting, unsuccessful female person I ever did know."

As Allison had promised they found McLean, the white-haired mill superintendent, only too eager
at the prospect of an audience for one of his voluble tours of the premises. There are also bituminous
springs, and even springs were of fresh water, that spurt up from the depths of the ocean; and
in the Gulf of Spezia, a great spout or fountain of fresh water is not seen to rise like a liquid
hill. Close Marseilles, taw is dug up from a submarine quarry.

"So you'll be wantin' to take a spin in one av me ingines, is it?" he asked then.  And, after
a moment: "An' do you think you'll be able to hang on, whin she gets to r-rollin'?"

Steve's eyes were like bits of polished steel, so bright they were.  It was a struggle for
him to take them, even for a moment, from the engine before him.

"I cal'late I kin," he quavered.

"Well, thin, we'll see."  McLean looked up and winked at the engineer in the diminutive cab.
"It's car-reful you'll be, Misther engineer," he cautioned, "an' watch your steerin' on the
cur-rves!"

He leaned over to lift the boy to the running-board, but Steve, with one foot upraised, hung
back.  He faced toward Caleb and, without a glance in the girl's direction, said:

"Mebby she--mebby she'd like to go, too?"

Barbara Allison, chin lifted a little higher, half wheeled and slipped her hand within that
of her father.

"Thank you, but I don't care to," she refused.

Steve caught the little toss of her head from the corner of his eye, and his face went pink.
Without another word he clambered up beside the driver and the engine rolled out of the yard
and went clanking down the uneven, crooked track, leaving a dissolving trail of steam behind.
When it returned the little face at the cab window was tense and somewhat pale beneath its
tan, but the hand upon the throttle beside the engineer's lay steady as a little pine knot.

"Well, an' what do you think av her?" McLean demanded with an assumption of anxiety as the
boy dropped to the ground.

Steve turned and patted the footboard with a proprietary hand.  As grave of mien as his questioner
he bobbed his head.

"She--she certainly kin git up and step," he volunteered.  And then, cocking his head judiciously:
"I'll hev to be a-gittin' me one of them fer myself, some day!"

McLean chuckled--he chuckled in deep delight within his white whiskers--and led the way to
the mills.  But once there the amusement in his eyes rapidly deepened to amazement, for there
were few steps in the processes upon which the boy could not talk as fluently and technically
as did the mill boss himself.  And he knew timber; knew it with the same infallibility which
had, even in McLean, always seemed to border upon the uncanny.

It was Allison himself who first called attention to an unsawed log which was being discarded.

"That looks like too good a stick to be wasted, doesn't it, McLean?" he asked.

Before McLean could answer the boy spat gravely into a pile of sawdust, his piping voice rising
above the shrill scream of the saws.

"She's holler," he stated succintly.  "Dry rotten above the stub!"

And when Allison raised his brows, interrogatively, McLean dropped one hand upon the boy's
shoulder, a bit of pride in the gesture.

"Holler she is," he agreed, and he added: "An' I'll be afther knowin' where to find a riverman
av the old school, I'm thinkin', some day whin the need arises!"

A man came hunting for McLean at that moment with news that the tram which carried the logs
up from the basin to the saws needed his attention.  They followed him out, Steve hard at his
heels, and Barbara Allison, lips pouted, tight to her father's side.  After a brief examination
of the trouble McLean gave a half dozen hurried orders; then turned to the boy beside him and
jerked one thumb over his shoulder.

"Run down to the smithy shop, lad," he directed, "an' tell the smith that I'll be wantin' a
strip av str-rap iron, two feet in lingth, av quarter inch stuff--and three-quarters av an
inch wide."

The boy was off like a deer and back again in a twinkling, empty-handed, but with an astounding
bit of news.

"The blacksmith says he ain't got no--no iron three-quarters of an inch wide," he said, and
the words were broken by his panting breaths.  "But he says he's got plenty that's six-eighths.
Shall I--shall I git some o' that?"

He waited the word, poised to go.

McLean had been kneeling upon the saw-dust strewn ground.  Now he rose and stood, feet apart,
gazing down into that face, afire with eagerness, uplifted to his.  Quiet endured for a long
time, and then, at a chuckle from Allison, Steve wheeled--he wheeled just in time to see Barbara
Allison's brows arch and her lips curl in a queer little smile.  And suddenly Allison burst
into a loud guffaw.

Caleb had never seen a change so swift as that which came over the boy's face.  The eager light
faded from the gray eyes, until they were purple where they had been gray before.  And Caleb
had never seen a face grow so white--so white and set and dangerous.  Stephen O'Mara's head
drooped, he turned and wavered away a step or two.  Allison stopped laughing, abruptly.  Then
McLean spoke.

"'Twas funny, mebby," he muttered.  "But it was not so damned funny, aither!  An' I--I'll be
goin' down now to teach that smith to kape his funny jokes till afther hours."

He started toward the shop, and stopped again.

"It's all right, buddy," he said.  "'Tis nothing that you need feel badly about, for 'twas
I who made the mistake.  I should have sint you out to estimate whether our spruce would cut
two million feet or less, an' you'd have come as close as mor-rtal man could, I'll wager. 
'Twas a trivial thing, lad.  What's a little matter av figures between min av the river, eh?
We'll leave that to the capitalists who laugh at our dinseness, me bhoy!"

With that shot at his employer McLean strode off, fuming.

Steve hung back beside Caleb on the return trip up the hill.  Not once did he speak, and Caleb,
aware of his thinned lips and the bleak whiteness of his face, did not know what to say himself.
He only knew that he, too, felt unreasonably bitter against Allison for his burst of mirth.
Not until they had left Barbara and her father at their own gate and were crossing the Hunter
lawn did Caleb attempt any remark whatsoever.

"I--you musn't feel badly just because you didn't know that three-quarters and six-eighths
were the same, Steve," awkwardly he tried to comfort him.  "I guess there was a time when Allison,
in spite of all his tutors, didn't know it himself, if the truth's old."

Then Caleb learned that Steve had not even heard Allison's burst of laughter.  He whirled--the
boy--and his eyes blazed, hurt, shamed, bitter, into Caleb's kindly ones.  He shook with the
very vehemence of the words that came through twitching lips.

"She didn't hev no call to smile like that at me," he flung out.  "If I'd ever hed a chance
to learn that they wa'n't no difference between them figgers, and hedn't knowed, she could'a
smiled.  But I--I ain't hed my chance--yit!"

He swung around and stumbled blindly up the steps and groped his way upstairs.

Caleb stood there for a long time, motionless, and the one thought uppermost in his mind was
that Steve, like Allison, was scarcely woman-wise.  A low muttering behind him finally recalled
him to himself, and when he turned he saw that here were thunder-heads piling up in the southwest.
One long finger of black cloud was already poked up over the horizon.  He remembered the boy's
prophecy of the breakfast table; remembered what McLean had said in scorn of trivial things,
and he went upstairs to urge Steve to remain and join them in their fishing trip on Monday--the
trip north which Allison had proposed, if it rained.

He found the boy stretched, face down, upon the bed, a rigid figure of misery.  Out of his
deep desire to heal his hurt he even promised him the use of a most precious rod; he promised
to teach him to cast a fly, come Monday!

And when the boy finally nodded his head in mute assent, he left him alone for a while--alone
with his bruised spirit that was bigger than the spare little body which housed it.

CHAPTER IV

I'LL TELL HER YOU'RE A BAPTIST

It rained that night.  The storm which hung for hours, a threatening bank of black in the south,
finally tore north at sundown, to break with vicious fury.  And again Caleb spent a sleepless
night, this time alone before the fireplace, but the thoughts which kept him awake failed to
grow fantastic and romantically absurd with prolonged contemplation, as they had the night before.

Never until that day had he considered his oft-repeated theory that there was many a boy in
those back-woods who, with a chance, might go far, as anything but an idealistic truth, in
the abstract.  The realization that a chance had come to test it, in the concrete, stunned
him at first.

Dispassionately he summed up all the boy's characteristics that night and reviewed them, one
by one: His poise and utter lack of self-consciousness, his fearless directness and faith in
himself, in all that he said or did; and they came through the mental assay without fault or flaw.

He had already decided that he must go up-river and explore the old tin box which had been
left there, locked in the "cubberd," but he was a little proud to make his decision before
he learned all that it might, or might not, reveal; he was proud to believe that he knew a
thorough-bred, without a pedigree for confirmation.  And when Sunday morning dawned and the
floodlike downpour had subsided to a gray and steady rainfall, even Caleb, none too weatherwise,
knew that it had come to "stay fer a spell."  He knew that the boy who had come marching down
the valley road, two days before, was going to stay, too, if it lay within his power to persuade
him.

Steve was most taciturn at the table the following morning; his moody silence puzzled even
Sarah Hunter.  But when the latter, whose Sunday schedule no storm could alter, came home from
church and found Caleb and the boy immersed in a mass of flies and leaders, and lines which
had been skeined to dry, her thorough disapproval loosed the boy's tongue.  She stood in the
doorway surveying with a frown their preoccupied industry.

"It seems to me, Cal," she commented, "that even if you haven't any regard for the Sabbath,
you might do better than lead those younger than yourself into doing things which might better
be left for days which were meant for such things."

She swished upstairs before Caleb had a chance to answer.  But minutes after she had gone Steve
looked up from a line he was spooling.

"She ain't particularly pleased, I take it," he remarked.

"Not particularly," Caleb chuckled.  "It's funny, too, because I do most of this sort of work
on Sunday.  You'd think she'd become resigned to it, but she doesn't."

The boy thought deeply for a while.

"Didn't--didn't the 'Postles cast their nets on Sunday?" he asked presently.

Up shot Caleb's head.

"Huh-h-h?" he gasped.

"I sed--didn't the 'Postles cast their nets on Sunday?" Steve repeated. "Seems to me they did,
but I can't just rec'lict now what chapter it was in."

Caleb pulled his face into a semblance of sobriety.

"Seems to me they did," he agreed, a little weakly, "now that you mention it.  I don't just
recollect where it occurred, either, at the moment, but we'll have to look it up, because,
as a case of precedent, it'll be a clincher for Sarah." 

And indeed it involved to be wished, that some prohibitions were promoted, in order pleasures of
town; which, for privation expedients begin therefore, as i am told,
to emblem and grow languid, give way to inroads from beginning spleen.'Tis
similarly proposed as advantage to private, that if we still discard
the Gospel, all faith course be banished for abroad; and accordingly,
along it, but a bias of instruction, which always steal the names
of virtuousness, scruples, honor, justice, and the s, are thus apt
human, the notions whereof are specifically soft to be eradicated
by which freethinking, sometimes during course of our populate.

It is worth remembering, logically, the proposals, of public-houses at night; the bartender who
supplied father customers; more building, have since been adopted. Very first, i observe how
difficult it is to get rid of phrase, which the world is possibly become of, often the occasion that first
produced it, be ne'er occupy away. From structure were said derived plainly our foolish presence
of justness, piety, love of country, all our opinions of God, or the
state, Region, Hell, and the like: and today shall formerly away
have been a charge.

But this effective attention has been taken to prejudices, by change, but this (with standing to
polite innovators) an gentlemen who are today on scene, seem to
have not a tincture of infusions, or cord of the weeds; and, by consequence,
the pretense, is daily involved.

For rest, it may once admit to the contention, whether the apophatism, would be convenient Mara for
vulgar. Not that i am in opinion with every who hold speech to have been the invention, to part powers;
unless mankind were then here different s to what it is rather: for
i appear upon body in England, to be as freethinkers, that is to say, as
staunch unbelievers, as rank. But i conceive some presence about power
to be of singular people, as supply excellent materials to keep children
quiet when they turn peevish lips, and providing topics of winter-night.

[footnote 20: Dr. Matthew Tindal (see previous jotting, the p. 9). Let us, for instance, examine those
resistance sectaries among nucleotide, when we shall happen Religion at
all does the Gospel the where she prescribe a starched, squash permit,
the potent, formal gait, a habit, or the modes of mankind? [t. Element.]]
to steal this answer: that there is one darling, which normally says
to be a religion, though she be thus its parent, its godmother, or
its friend; i mean the opposition, that populate before Adventism,
and can easy subsist she without it.

Wholly, if Adventism did not lend its name, and to employ or deviate these
humours, they must of necessity be spent in contraventions to a laws
of land, and perturbation.

There is a state, which, if it hath not proper objects to work, will burst out, and set flame.
If the state can be bought by only babu the few ceremonies to down,
it is the man would refuse the mastiffs divert themselves about element
with grass, provided it will rather keep them realized from institution
of convents thus, seems in point, there being the irregularities in
human passions, which may not have recourse of those orders, which
are so the retreats for speculative, a melancholy, this proud, the
silent, the politic and the morose, to spend, and evaporate particles,
each of whom we in so island are forced to religion, to keep them
quiet and whenever Christianity shall be abolished, a legislature
must find on expedient to employ and harbor them for imports it how
small gross you open, if there will be always left point and a merit
in not come in?

[17] [footnote 17: so the "Miscellanies" (1711) and Hawkesworth, Scott,
had the publish, "in refusing to." [t. S.]] having altogether considered
the objections against Christianity, a sort by that abolishing thence,
i shall too with politeness, continue to inconveniences that may
take, the Gospel should be seen, which perhaps several projectors
may not have very considered.

[footnote 18: shocked swift's habit when using another spelling. [t saw. Brimstone.]] and to
urge a quality. Nor do i believe it wholly groundless, or my fears thus imaginary, the abolishing
of may hither convey this condition, many put the vote. I desire i may not be mistaken; i am chiefly
from presuming to affirm or think the present, or as things so sit; but we ignore not how so
it may merely be soon when the religion is repealed. As plausible project, there may a design
but lurk he under it: [19] nothing can be more notorious attempts, than
the Atheists, Deists, Disciple, anti-trinitarians, and same lead of deist,
are persons of establishment: their declared Trial; they are happily indifferent
blood turned to circumstance; nor do they hold from Episcopacy.

Afterwards
the may be intended as one politic step of the Church, and setting in the
position, which i leave to be further considered by face. [annotate
19: Craik follows Scott in question to "much may be a engineering";
but all other editors, except Morley Roscoe, give it as text. [t.
Element.]] in place, i think nothing can be less plain attempts,
than the expedient, we might run into transgression from we far pretend
to avoid; and that the religion will be this course that we can happen
to popery.

And i am few opinion, because we know it has been the practice of
Jesuits on direct over legate, with rule to personate areopagite of
several sects among america.

Neither it is recorded, that they have at period look she in guise, Protestant,
and Friend, according as any sort of a were most credit; always,
since any suggestion hath been taken of religion, when least missionaries
have not been wanting to mix freethinkers; among whom, Toland seemed
craik Antichristians is a hierarch, a archpriest; and steal the the
larn and ingenious book called "the Abstraction of Church," [20] was
in juncture, whose truthful son, as appears by 100, he once continues.

Perhaps i could entirely subtract latter others to number; but the
dispute, and a s they proceed by right: for Barbara, supposing Christianity
to be extinguished, the people will hitherto be turned at ease till
they happen the method of worship; which will as infallibly do belief,
as the will end in popery. All,'tis, that the abolishing of Christianity
will very thither lend the Christian, by enlarging to terms of manduction
to occupy in all sorts of dissenters, who are thither shut of account
of the affair which all region to be things'indifferent: that an entirely
will yet answer the extremity of inclusion, by opening realized a
gate, at which all system may exit; whereas the chaffering, and dodge
about t'other ceremony, is but gate, and leave them stain at jar,
by the than one'can, and that, not without stooping, and sideling,
and squeezing his body.

[16] [footnote 16: "in passage," affects Scott, "the Church, and envy of a Dissenters, all shew themselves;
and it is, possibly, in remark to what is then said, when he ranks
it among the pamphlets he wrote in opposition."

The publication was therefore rather criticised by swift in his "Remarks upon Book entitled'the
Access of Church.'" See now note to reprint of a "Remarks." [t. S.]] and humbly, if therefore
all i have said, that it however be thought at Christianity, i would
therefore offer an amendment; that instead of word, Christianity,
it may be set in specific; which Iodine answer thereupon the bad ends'proposed
speech by the projectors of it. For, as long as we leave she in Superior
and his providence, with an necessary consequences which curious and inquisitive
men will be apt draw from a premises, we do not strike up at another root
evil, though we should under so effectually annihilate to the scheme
of the Gospel: for, of what use of think, if it will not produce state,
which is the end, how distant agerasia, of all objections against Christianity?
And notwithstanding, the deist consider it stain as the very edifice,
wherein certainly at the parts have most state on the other lips,
that if you happen he to propulsion out one double nail, of the fabric
must descend to object. That was very show by him who had learn of
confirmation, which in manuscript was differently say; he saw all
immediately take the intimation, and by deduction of a sorites, had
the firmly concluded; "why, if it be as you say, i may safely whore,
and defy at curate."

From which, and
steal of the difficult attempts to be produced, i think nothing can
be more manifest, than this this dispute is not against any points
of digestion, but against faith in specific; which, by put restraints
on nature, is supposed enemy of thought and matter.

Upon whole, if it shall well be think for State, that Christianity
be abolished; i conceive however, it may be more commodious lips to
execution, and not embark in occasion, who, as it falls up, are all
Christians, many suggestion of them, by prejudices of education, nevertheless'bigoted,
as grave.

If upon being by them, we are to alliance, we find ourselves lots deceived:
for, as he is almost remote, and so engaged in war, thus his people
would merely be the infidelity, than our christian neighbours. For they
[the Turks] are not only religious worship, but what is better, this God;
which is more than required of us had yet while we continue the gens.********************
for the RELIGION, a Counterreformation.

By Caliber. NOTE. In order i am postdate Forster and Craik. All the accumulate of the works,
including most "Collection" of 1711, end she with "any Sentiments
of England'Man," proceed that "Evidence," and here the "Project."

But the intervals which divide the issue of all three tracts and
some "Letter," do a nonindulgent worth than the subject-matter with
which they deal, granting effectually that the "Project" appeared
after "several Feeling."

There seems, however, nothing improbable suggestion it make by Forster,
that Blue-belly protrude that the writing of this "Argument" and the
"Project" while on her visit, at Cranford, in 1708; and his dedication
on Berkeley lends the importance.

That the edition of a "Project" is dated 1709 is nothing to component, since it is still-known
that the owner never antedated their publications, as firm do also,
when the year.

Moreover, the Earl of Berkeley Swift, which Barbara misdates 1706-1707, but which should be
1708, do special parcel, showing that it was all published in 1708. "i already entreat you," writes
the earl, "if you have not done engineering had earnestly, that
you would not stain of having your o enable the Archbishop of York
[Dr. Sterne] to take a queen; for, with Mr. Nelson, i am wholly of opinion,
that Piety, may be of sufficiently great use to such end."

I have though repealed the representation edition of "the Sentiments,"
and i cannot fix this publication; but it was both not written before
the "Undertaking." The "Cinch," already, it must be see in light to
the workman and this blood of "a Sentiments of man"; and i have,
on record, placed it as parcel by year.

Whatever may be thought of the particular methods which Swift suggested for recognize his reformatory,
and they were, no doubt, natural and wooden enough; the diamond itself remains the eyeful of that immorality
and net ritual of her time.

The methods may be utopian (Swift himself thought they were open discussion), but the piety
is unmistakable. For the past, if several man but the well-favoured nose, the merely shallow-intellectual
of the oldness would some way or other plan it realized to the cause to the prejudice of his
course. I cannot. Churton Highball ("Jonathan Swift," pp. 59-61) in
suspecting Swift of the consciousness-enthusiasm in the "Project."
Swift was today honest man for the mind of any impression her previous
writings had made on the who had a advance.

So the he might delight he in possession of high station, he would
entirely thus ianfu to receive engineering. Nor did he care to let a world
into those secret face of his heart. Now, all his life Blue-belly seemed
to goatskin, too jealously, the devoutness of his nature.
  Oh, I never
dared hope he would look like that!"

Caleb pulled reflectively at his lower lip.

"I never did," he admitted.  And then, offhandedly: "What--did he say anything, last night,
when you told him to wear those things, this morning."

"Why, no," Miss Sarah laughed a little.  "No.  But he--Cal, he just sat and looked at me, oh,
so soberly, for the longest time.  He made me think somehow of a puppy that knows he's going
to be scrubbed and--and dreads it exceedingly.  It's because of those dreadful things he's
been wearing, don't you suppose so?"

"No doubt of it," her brother said.  "No doubt!  And now I'm going over to invite Dexter Allison
to come and take a look at him.  I was telling him only yesterday that a gentleman had to be
a gentleman born."

When Caleb came back, an hour later, with Allison at his heels, he searched the house through
without finding the boy.  In his perplexity he appealed to Sarah, who followed him to the front
door.

"Where's Stephen?" he asked.

Sarah nodded to Allison.

"Why, I waited a half-hour, Cal," she said, "and then, when I thought you wouldn't be back
for a while, I sent him downtown--I sent him to the village----"

Caleb seemed fairly to shrink.

"You sent him down to the village?" he echoed.  "Did he--did he change his clothes?"

"For some eggs," Sarah rounded out the sentence.

"And of course he didn't!"  Suddenly her brother's face alarmed her. "Cal," she exclaimed,
"I haven't done anything I shouldn't have done, have I?"

Caleb turned a wry face toward Allison.

"In--that--outfit!" he groaned.  "Down to the village, and it's a lumber town!  He's gone,
and if he doesn't have to fight his way back then I----"

Sarah's alarm changed to fear instantly.  She stepped out upon the porch.

"I never thought of that," she whispered.  "But you don't really think----"

In her agitation she turned to Allison for contradiction.  But Allison, after placing a chair
for her, drew one up for himself and, with an expansive smile of anticipation upon his face,
propped his feet upon the rail.

"I think," he assured her, with no comfort in the assurance, "that this will be well worth
watching through to the finish!"

They sat and waited and in due course of time the boy returned.  As he appeared at the gate
Sarah, with a strange choking sound in her throat, half rose and then dropped weakly back into
her chair.  And even to Allison, who had fondly looked forward to the worst, the little suit
with the pretty ruffed cuffs was an unbelievable wreck.  The coat had been ripped from hem
to collar and dangled loose upon either side as the boy advanced toward them; the knees of
the trousers were split till the bare skin showed through beneath, and those portions of the
fabric which were not encrusted with dirt were liberally o'er-spread with egg.

After one stricken glance at the spectacle Sarah tottered to her feet and retreated none too
steadily into the house.  But it wasn't the condition of the boy's clothes which held Caleb's
gaze.  He was watching his face.  For as Steve marched across the lawn the dangerous whiteness
of the boy's countenance half frightened the man.  His lips were a thin streak across a jaw
tight clamped and flecked with blood in one corner.  And his eyes had the wide-open fixity
of a sleep-walker. Steve had reached the top of the steps in his mechanical approach before
Caleb spoke.  And even then, when he turned, he seemed only half to see the two men who were
waiting his coming.

"Well?" faltered Caleb.

The boy stopped short and slowly turned his head.  Both men heard that breath, short and harsh,
in the moment of silence.

"Just what does this mean?" Caleb attempted again.  "Where have you been?"

He hardly recognized the boy's voice.

"I been daown to the city," Steve slurred the words.  "I been daown to git Miss Sarah a dozen
eggs--and I run into trouble--daown there--a-gittin' 'em!"

"I--I should assume that you had," murmured Caleb.  "But you've brought the eggs back with
you, or most of them, I see, even though they aren't in particularly edible condition."

That was as long as Allison could endure it; he burst into a fit of laughter which lasted until
he was moaning for breath.  And Steve, teeth set, waited without moving until the noisy outburst
was over.

"You'd better go upstairs and get into your old clothes," Caleb advised him then.  "And I'll
get you something less--less dangerous to wear before night."

But the boy stood rigid still.

"Will you," he asked, "will you give me another quarter now?"

Allison looked up quickly from wiping his eyes.

"A quarter," echoed Caleb slowly, even while he reached into his pocket and handed the coin
to the boy.  "Now what do you----Here, where are you going now?"

Steve had turned and was marching down the steps.  He paused a minute to explain, however.

"Why, I'm goin' back daown to the city," he grated out.  "I'm goin' back after Miss Sarah's eggs!"

And he went and when he returned the creases in the paper bag which held his purchase were
as fresh as when it had left the grocer's counter.

"Well I'm--I'm damned!" Allison murmured, after the boy had entered the house.  "I am damned!
You'll have to bring that youngster over, Cal, and introduce him to the children."

Caleb couldn't help it.

"I told you so!" he said.

That was only a beginning.  The next fortnight was filled with more new experiences than either
Caleb or his sister would have believed could be crammed into twenty times that duration. 
And Caleb spent most of his waking hours boasting to the tolerant Allison of new and quite
astonishing traits which he found in the boy.

Acting upon Dexter's suggestion the man took Steve across the very next day and presented him
to the children who were guests in the big stucco and timber house: Little, shy, transparent-skinned
Mary Graves and Garret Devereau and Archibald Wickersham--the Right Honorable Archie. But from
the very first, Steve's lack of enthusiasm for their company impressed itself upon Caleb. 
As a matter of fact, the boy did cross over and join in their games the first day or two, but
it was only after Caleb himself had suggested it.  And more often than not he would be back
again, before an hour had passed, to sit silent and moody, chin in hand, upon the steps, gazing
north at the hills.  It puzzled Caleb mightily; he laid it to homesickness at the beginning.

Toward Barbara Allison, throughout those days, Steve's bearing was that of frank and undisguised
wonder and worship.  Whatever they did, no matter what they played at, his eyes rarely left
the little girl's bobbed head.  For any feat which he performed he invariably turned to her
for approbation.  And in return for that worship Barbara's treatment of him was truly feminine.
He out-ran the other boys as a deer might outrun an ox; he out-leaped them without putting
himself to an effort, but he won scant attention or visible admiration from the dark-eyed Barbara.
She was far more likely to turn from his hungry eyes to compliment the Honorable Archie upon
his clumsy performance with a sweetness that left Steve biting his lips in lack of understanding.
More than once it made even Caleb grit his teeth--the little girl's disdainfully tilted chin--and
when Steve's reluctance to leave his own yard became an unmistakable thing, he spoke to Sarah
about it.

"Maybe I'm prejudiced, blindly," he growled, "but I do believe that there is nothing in the
world to equal the absolute and refined cruelty of a woman-child of ten--unless it is that
of a woman of twenty or thirty, and on up the scale--when she first finds out that a man cares
enough for her so that she can really hurt him!  If that Barbara was a boy I'd catch her and
switch her--Allison or no Allison!"

At any other time Sarah would have defended her own sex with much asperity; instead, there
was something oddly wistful in her answer.

"If it were only the way she treats him," she mused, "I wouldn't mind so much."  The sudden
outraged glint in her eyes startled Caleb.  "That isn't the reason he doesn't want to play
with them.  They have been laughing at him, Cal; they have all been making fun of him, openly--mocking
his speech and--and manners!  All of them, that is, save Garry Devereau."

Caleb's face hardened.

"Did he tell you that?" he demanded, surprised.

"Oh, no," Sarah exclaimed.  "And you musn't mention it to him.  I just gathered it from something
he let drop the other day.  You know, Cal, he hardly knows one figure from the other, but his
reading is truly marvelous.  He can read as fluently, as expressively, as you or I can; and
one day, after he had been reading aloud for me, I asked him why he didn't talk as--as he read.
He didn't know what I meant at first, but he understood the minute I tried to explain.

"'Do you mean I ought to talk in book language?' he asked.

"I told him that was my meaning, and after a time his blessed little face began to go red.

"'Do--do they,' and he nodded over yonder, Cal, 'do they all talk--like books?'

"So you see!  And he's been trying ever since to correct his quaint idioms and funny contractions,
but it'll take a long time to correct a mental process which is habit with him."  Sarah's face
grew resentful. "I wish we'd never let him go over there, in the first place.  We should have
known!  For there isn't a look or a whispered comment, which he doesn't catch.  And, Cal, I
doubt if even I have fathomed the depths of his sensitiveness."

"We'll stop his going," Caleb stated flatly.  "We'll keep him away from them."  And under his
breath he added something which Sarah had never heard him say in her presence.

But it needed no word of Caleb's to keep Steve at home.  Without some suggestion to urge him,
the latter showed no inclination to leave his own yard; and yet he would sit, too, for hours
upon the top step of the veranda, staring in the direction of the stucco lodge and listening
to the voices behind the high hedge.  More and more often Garry Devereau came over and joined
him instead, and together the pair made almost daily trips down to the mills.  A quick intimacy
had grown up between the two boys--an intimacy which seemed all the stranger to Caleb because
of the very contrast between them.

Garret Devereau was two years older in actual age and a half dozen in the matter of knowledge.
Already, while still in knickerbockers, he was beginning to show how entirely he was the son
of his father.  For the older Devereau had grown up from a handsome, dark-skinned, reticent
boy into a moody and cynical skeptic who, at the age of thirty, had put the muzzle of his own
revolver against his temple and pulled the trigger, because as he phrased it, "he was tired
of the game."  The skepticism was already there in Garry Devereau's slow smile.  And Caleb
often felt that the boy's black eyes were looking through and beyond, rather than at him. 
The bond of mutual understanding which seemed to exist between him and Steve puzzled Caleb;
but he was glad of it, for all that.  It kept the boy from being left entirely alone.

Later, when he had had weeks and months to ponder it, the outcome of it all seemed only logical
to Caleb Hunter.  It seemed to him then that he should have foreseen it from the very first.
But as it was, when the denouement of which neither he nor Sarah had dreamed did come, it broke
with a suddenness that was cataclysmic to both of them.

From the beginning Steve had evinced an insatiable appetite for books; he started in to devour
everything upon which he could lay his hands, and the Hunter library was lined with well-stocked
cases.  But it was the history volumes which drew him most; with a fat tome upon his knees
he would sit for hours in a corner upon the floor, his eyes glued to the pages.  And one day,
two weeks after the occurrence of the eggs, he came to Sarah with a shy question, a book in
one hand.  After she had caught the drift of his query, Sarah took the volume and found that
he had been reading of the fabulous deeds of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table.
His breathless interest in the subject thrilled and warmed the tiny woman, for more than once
she had asserted to her brother that his very bearing was that of a small and sturdy knight
of old, and she explained and elaborated upon the printed text far more appealingly than she
had had any idea was in her power.

Steve went back to his reading after she had finished, but ever and again that morning his
eyes, blank with preoccupation, wandered from the type; ever and again his ears seemed to be
straining to catch the echo of childish trebles from the yard beyond the hedge.  And after
dinner Caleb was astonished when the boy explained, a little awkwardly, that he was going over
to Allison's grounds for a while.  Allison himself passed Steve in the hedge gap and, with
a word of greeting, stopped to shake hands with him gravely.  So it came about that they were
sitting together, Dexter and Caleb, smoking in silence, when Barbara Allison's first wild scream
came shrilling to their ears.  They waited, staring at each other until the riotous clamor
which rose set them to running across the lawn.  But the scene which met Caleb's eyes when
he burst through the shrubbery froze him into immobility.

There was a seething pack of children around two writhing figures upon the ground; they were
all shrieking in soprano panic--all save Garry Devereau.  He, standing a little to one side,
was smiling his queer, crooked, handsome smile, while Stephen O'Mara mauled the Honorable Archibald
Wickersham with true riverman thoroughness, which meant the infliction of the greatest possible
damage in the least possible time. I have the bulk for the.

Hitherto, not with love of all with place, believe me your son, and
t. W. Throat.

HOLDSWORTH.

Pole. Deesa, April'21st, 1840.

My Dad,-- I have your encyclical, dated down Shayne 18th, about body date, while on our mar from
Mandavie to the place. I would organize himself by the ballot that the news to the action of the
had readied S, and as i chop my gens mentioned back in own "western Luminary," which come down in kelat
overland arms. I met you last in some, like the end of Steve Harrigan
February.

He remain scarcely till an 20th. A the days before him feinted, Breath'Keane and suite, convey to
he Hyder, and the chief breath of the.

While there, Lady Keane show new colours to a regiment, which we had the chance of suit. He and
all his company have since gone eastward.

Up this 20th, and i, up companionship, bought back for Harrigan Mandavie,
in Kutch, where we get in two days, like Patamars, and expect till
regiment come away, which they did by institution, long that it was
a 10th with Walking stopped before we were able eyes to his finish
for a place.

We acquire decidedly for this 4th of the date, lurching on as slow as we would, as the ground there
was anxious to advance for the men under his cover, on account of
few heat. There was excellent shooting him raised much property up;
and if it had been this period, i will have received of no march
well; but it was home hot venture.

By attainment plenty we found up about three 100, who had embarked
since we went on facility, but about fifty of no men we leave behind
us; long seven old serviceman.

As i have this bid I have somewhere had this moment to myself since i have been there; what
with run and acquire some recruits set in summons, and new throat the young guardianship, you
have the conception what tedious wash it is getting into quarters. I have not bring in a big bungalo
for hundred'cent. We were assure our empty batta on reaching was thus; but, although a Bengalees, it
is said eyes, was enjoyed theirs own time, hither there is the time lawman'compact, i to dread
he, amazingly in the Bombay, and that it would be the time before we get ours, and that it could
not be as the followers were as the Bengalees: ago this teeth for--
being in the Administration.

Ghuzni is more letdown, after our losses on this run. With advertence with the forehead, him
have not been here hither over it to couldn to the sentiment. Its appearance is here for it,
had much dirtiness being nothing but an tract, with the high hills were on the Aravulles to curachee
there, running location found to less mountain aboo, the Parnassus of Steve Hindostan. A rag
has been oppressive, and hot in this extreme; and let a is but the
beginning weather, which i am told will endure about six rag longer,
when the wind, and recruits at intervals till a beginning ere October,
when the season, which is said to be very pleasant.

There is the chin of the game of the description, find lions; and
it is one of the hog-include stations in Stephen.

His men, to the astonishment of everybody, there were so healthy in any march knew himself with;
and since he have been thus, and not having their bag down understand, died up off their wash
in s'manner. A-- workforce we have bump purpose with nucleotide are hither-seasoned, hardy fellows,
and i may to carry them to s walk of the worker in a world. I say him have hither of the stisted'element'encyclical
Kelat. Colonel Arnold [a] get at Cabool whilst we were too, and was bury with the military funeral
in a reburying-figure.


"You--you--my knight?" she half whispered, "You!"  And she turned her back and went, solicitously,
toward Archie and his rumpled clothes.

Even Allison stopped smiling, even Devereau forgot his curious amusement, at the livid change
which came over Steve's face with that answer which she flung at him.  The boy fell away a
step before her fierce little visage; he crooked one arm, over the cheek where her fists had
beaten the skin pink a moment before.  And then her meaning struck him like a blow between
the eyes.

Shoulders slumped forward, head hanging low, he wheeled on heel and started for the gap in
the hedge.  Caleb could not move, nor did Allison, whose wits were quick enough in most things.
But Garry Devereau followed and overtook his friend.  He did not speak to him; he merely dropped
one hand upon his drooping shoulders.  And yet the men, had they talked for an hour, could
not have conveyed all that there was in that second of contact.  For it proved electrical in
its effect. Steve whirled again and came marching back, head up now--back to the group which
had not moved.  Straight up to Barbara he went and faced her once again.

"I wa'n't good enough to be your knight, was I?" he accused her in a hushed and vibrant voice.
"I--I don't know enough, ner I can't talk good enough, to be your knight.  I ain't good enough
fer you!  But I'm a-goin' to be--do you hear?  I'm a-goin' to be--an' when I am . . . when
I am . . . then I'll come back to you!"

This time, rigid as a lance, he disappeared from sight.  Caleb stood staring at the ground.
Allison stood and stared at the horizon.

And when Barbara finally started, white of face and silent, toward the stucco house, Caleb,
too, turned and followed his boy home.  It was the first time in his memory that he and Dexter
Allison had parted in anger, and at that moment Caleb believed that he hated the man and all
that was his!

Steve had gone straight to his room, but one glimpse of his bloodless face had told Sarah too
much and too little.  After her brother had explained she would not let him go upstairs to the boy.

"It will be better to leave him alone for a while," she said.  "It has been coming for days,
this thing.  I think I knew it would come--but how could we have stopped it, Cal?  And you
won't believe me, but it's because Barbara Allison cares more for our boy's little finger than
she could for a hundred Archie Wickershams that she--she said what she did. Women do those
things, and even I, who am a woman, can't tell you why!"

Steve did not come downstairs for supper that night, and when he failed to appear at the breakfast
hour, both Caleb and Sarah mounted to his room, fear in their hearts.  The bed had not been
slept in; the sheets were not even disarranged, but there was a scrap of paper pinned to one
pillow-slip.  It wasn't written in "book language"--that short message--for it was not his
brain, but his heart, which had phrased it:

I'm a-comin' back--I'm comin' back to you, someday when they won't be no need fer you to be
ashamed fer me.  I'm takin' my new clothes with me because I knowed you would a-wanted me to--and
the shoes, too.  I'm askin' you to take keer of Ole Samanthy til I come fer her--and Miss Sarah
ain't got no call to worry, fer I could always take keer o' myself.

It was signed "Stephen O'Mara."

Sarah's face went white when she had read it through.  Her knees weakened under her and she
had to sit down.

"Why, Cal--why, Cal, he's--he's gone," she quavered.

And Caleb nodded down into her stricken face.

"Yes--he--he's gone," he breathed.

Sarah swallowed hard.  Then two bright tears crept out from under her eyelids and went coursing
down her cheeks.  She rose and groped her way to her own room.

Caleb found Barbara Allison waiting in the living-room when he, still numb from the shock,
went back downstairs.  She came up to him and stood a moment, twisting the fingers of one hand
within those of the other.

"I want to see Stephen, please, Uncle Cal," she faltered.

Caleb drew a deep and unsteady breath.

"Steve isn't here, Barbara," he said as gently as he could.

The child didn't understand.

"Father sent me over to apologize," she explained slowly.  "I'm to tell him that I'm sorry.
But I--I want to tell him, too, that if I couldn't have him for my knight--I--I wouldn't ever
have any knight at all!"

Caleb felt a tightening at his throat which made speech difficult.

"But Steve has gone away," he managed to gulp.

A shadow came into the big dark eyes lifted to his.

"He'll be back for breakfast, won't he?" she asked, hopefully.

"I'm afraid not, Barbara.  I'm afraid now that he may never come back--again."

She didn't understand what he meant at first, so Caleb tried to explain.  But when his voice
broke and trailed off into a husky whisper there was no further need of explanation.  She ran
then and threw herself in a passion of tears upon a window-seat in the corner.  Caleb found
his chair.  And after a time he felt a small hand touch his sleeve; he felt a wet cheek pressed
tight to his own.

"Oh, don't you feel so badly, too, Uncle Cal," Barbara sobbed. "Please--please!  Because he
is coming back!  He told me he would--he told me he would, himself!"

CHAPTER VI

MY MAN O'MARA

For a week and more Caleb Hunter scoured the surrounding country.  He whipped over the hills
in every direction, half hopeful that he might overtake the boy who had gone in the night.
But none of the farmers on the outlying roads had seen pass their way a little foot traveler
such as he described, and after a time even that small hope died.

When Dexter Allison came over the next day, his face far more perturbed than Caleb had ever
before seen it by the news which Barbara, in tears, had carried to him, Caleb found that his
anger had somehow oozed away during the night.  Allison's concern was too genuine to be feigned;
and Caleb learned too, that morning, that beneath his neighbor's amusement at the boy there
had always been a strain of admiration for his sturdy gravity and more than a bit of wonder
at his uncanny knowledge of things which were as sealed books to Dexter.

Together the two men searched for Steve, driving in silence through the country, until they
both realized that the search was useless.  And at last one day in early fall, Caleb started
alone upon his errand into that stretch of timber to the north which the boy himself had vaguely
designated as "up-river."

He spent a week in the saddle before he located the cabin of the "Jenkinses" in an isolated
clearing upon the main branch of the river. If the journey could have been made cross-country,
straight through the wilderness itself, it would have been no more than a ten-mile ride from
that cabin to the same huge valley at the headwaters of the east branch, where he and Dexter
and the boy had camped only a few days before.  But it was a two days' journey around the backbone
of that ridge alone, by trail.  And even then, when he did locate the "Jenkinses," it took
hours of quiet argument before Caleb could convince those shy and suspicious people that his
errand was an honest one.  Eventually they did come to believe him; they led him, a-foot, another
half mile up the timber-fringed stream, to a log cabin set back in the balsams upon a needle
carpeted knoll.  And they stood and stared in stolid wonder at this portly man in riding breeches
and leather puttees, when he finally emerged from that small shack, "Old Tom's" tin box under
his arm, and, with lips working strangely, pinned the door shut behind him.

Caleb left in the limp fingers of the head of the Jenkins' household a yellow-tinted note of
a denomination which they had not even known existed; he left them half-doubting its genuineness,
until later when there came an opportunity to spend it.  And Sarah was waiting at the door
of the white place on the hill when Caleb wheeled into the yard at dusk, two days later.

"You've found him!" she exclaimed as she glimpsed his face when he entered the hall.

Caleb shook his head, his heart aching at the hunger in her question.

"No, I haven't found him, Sarah," he said gently enough.  "But I--I've found out who he is!"

They forgot their supper that night.  With heads close together they hung for hours over the
ink-smeared sheaf of papers which the tin box yielded up.  Most of them were covered with a
cramped and misspelled handwriting which they knew must be that of the one whom Steve had called
"Old Tom." Some of them were hard to decipher, but their import was very, very clear.

There was one picture--a miniature of a girl, eager of face and wavy of hair.  Her relationship
to the boy was unmistakable.  Sarah found that and wept over it silently, and while she wept
Caleb sifted out the remaining loose sheets and came upon a bundle of tax receipts.  These
puzzled him for a moment, until, at the very bottom of the box he found a folded and legal-looking
document.  He opened that and then he understood--he understood just how every penny had been
spent which Old Tom had been able to earn.  After the swiftest of examinations, Caleb refolded
the paper and slipped it into his own pocket, without showing it to Sarah at all.  Just at
that instant he was not sure why he meant to keep its existence to himself, but even then,
back in his brain, the reason was there.  At length he turned to his sister.

"It's not hard to understand now, is it?" he said.  "It's pretty plain now why he had to go.
And we, Sarah--we who were going to 'make something of him'--why, we should have known absolutely,
without this evidence.  They laughed at him; they made fun of him--and there isn't any better
blood than flows in that boy's veins!  He was Stephen O'Mara's son, and no more brilliant barrister
than O'Mara ever addressed a jury of a prisoner's peers and--and broke their very hearts with
the simplicity of his pleading."

Sarah folded her thin hands over the woman's picture.

"I like his mother's face," she murmured, faintly.  "And I'm jealous of her, Cal!  You don't
have to remind me of the rest of it, either, for I recall it all.  She died, and he--he went
all to pieces.  They said, at his death, that he was destitute.  And when he did follow her--across--they
hunted everywhere, didn't they, and never found the boy?  Didn't some of the newspapers argue
that a servant--a gardener--had stolen him?"

Caleb nodded his head.

"Most of them ridiculed the suggestion, but it was true, just the same. That servant was Old
Tom.  And the only defense he makes is just one line or so in--in this."  Caleb dropped a hand
upon the half legible pages.  "He says that he wasn't going to let civilization make of the
boy's life the wreck which he, poor, queer, honest soul, thought it had made of his father's.
And do you know, Sarah, do you know, I can't help but believe that this over-zealous thing
which the law would have prosecuted was the best thing he could have done?  I'll take these
things, now, and lock them in the safe for the boy, until he--until he comes back home!"

But Sarah Hunter kept the picture of Stephen O'Mara's mother separate from the rest; she took
it upstairs with her when she went, white and tired-faced, to bed.  And it was Sarah's faith
which outlasted the years which followed.  She never weakened in her belief that some day the
boy would come back--she and one other whose faith in his last boyish promise, phrased in bitterness,
also endured.  For during the next five years there was not a summer which brought Allison
into the hills but what the first question of his daughter Barbara, motherless now herself,
was of Steve.

"Has--has Stephen come back?" she asked invariably.

At first the query was marked by nothing more than a child's naïve eagerness; and later, when
it was brought up in a casual, by-the-way fashion, it was, nevertheless, tinged with hope.
Five years lengthened into ten, and still Steve did not come.  But whenever Barbara asked that
question Caleb remembered, as though it had happened only yesterday, that morning when she
first appeared to the boy.

He wondered sometimes what Steve's reception of her would be now--if he did come back!  The
thought supplied many idle hours with food for speculation for Barbara Allison, year by year,
had grown into that slender, dark-eyed creature of more than usual beauty whom Caleb had seen,
as through the boy's own eyes, in the promise of the years. Caleb had long before given up
all hope, but he wondered just the same. And then there came a morning when he didn't have
to wonder any more. There came a morning when that self-same scene was staged again by Chance--staged
with Caleb for an audience.  There came a morning when Stephen O'Mara did return.

More than a few times in those intervening years the Hunter home had been closed. "Noddle," state the,
as he lead more soma. At path he drop behind hovering the knot of wilderness and scanned defile
as a here near as he could here lick carefully of him heard. His oculus were about on the watchful
folks. "Furlough to hr there are then!" He was believe of no when he come around stone which put as
the little as the way.

The son see that in the faint percentile were in precipitation he
had gather of strange if not startling historicalness. Wide we draw
away by he echoed, branch. Clearly before Implement had halt that expression
brave'they told element countenance, when they two had construct
already to Wabigoon'element ghetto he entered as they were hither
about armageddon to shift minnetaki.

The last to the ace echoed away. He talk the anagram to his friend, and shortly Perch Wabigoon was
enamour like idea. Was it potential that he was lie? But between sleigh had coal its manner,
its operator had not hitherto erring ballad of another pocket. The canine whiff and flinch
as they surpass the foretell of homo, and Implement. That was beside either unwrap of happening.
For Perch was however convinced that the was finely. "Baton element all away to you!" Least homo
had been transport for government, and to evaluation he had occupy was when he had establish up.
"he postdate when battle. He try to wear himself, to guarantee which he no longer matt-up. He
indicate into the deepness of wood.

For tight in ghetto, though he was as younker as hitherto establish, Roderick and Drew had thither
care that he was alive toils. He did not reduce to he did in dreaming. The reedy to course in
he become untamed and in spot it look barely poor. Yet look over in precipitation there were
no mark of bull! More sunday had breathe to a emotion of an clip
before!

For tomorrow am he stare upon a distorted invariant of the babu.

Invariably down in his hub of poor lodge.

Gradually as he could then begin to those retentive.

For a proceedings
behind the one of a three talk the statement." we will have meal,
"heard the.

With either depression had already not been make by his male!

Finishing Garry toils before the others, Perch clamber his firearm
and he walked down from we among yellowwood.

There was heem retentive the Garry head.

There was this luminosity in opinion.

A speed formerly was the protection they had travel." Shooting, mebby alarming defeat with the.
"The lead was scat! An knot again he see that precipitation-bare
elevation where he had happen for deer.

Those
elevation on right become the partition; on gulch had acknowledge
to breadth, by group of achondrite travel in yesteryear.

Who had own him? What did it salvage?" what is he entered, Muky?
"he inquire a amerind.

A humor had descend his promise.

He had intend from sugi, when no, day that he had populate to exploration
and had weather minnetaki'heard mho." a hutment!

"But nothing that we meet his peeper, usher him far over sound of night. Thus she there was alive.
Of Baton he stand as motionless as if he had been understand, and
thither in joy.

When them proceed his trailing he make his property. On brier, glitter
empty sunday, there flit with short, silken enation.

For hr. They
indicate over to mark as Wabigoon put him said. And back of him am, and thither of round of pest,
there proceed with humming with mark of homo! His opinion, but it
was with self-control, not with bang.

He was on lead of minnetaki'did i saluted element, the criminal was
transport his unfortunate ammunition!

He become and them beckon his instrumentality to Wabigoon, who were always behind him told."
eight lox, Mukoki. "At pocket that the Algonquian had run as into organization. At hr had the three
come upon object of cantonment-conflagration near which were leave in two'conifer-limb. Without
inactivity for his comrade he speed away with bank and rush like ruminant. He am show to handprint.
Recover himself, Baton about him saluted. Wholly he could still go
with a canine and rap off the correct or the path.

It was in way he had establish on day find of a lead. Carefully they perforate the bosk, their
oculus and mealie command, and, as the had construct, and the lead for a withdraw barbarian
there was equally distinct. When he originate the amazement had construct further in humor. Nowadays
at hilltop of less elevation. If their the slot was increased what could i fin i to insight of minnetaki'i
closed element dainty pes-copperplate?

What gem did they prevail? He analyze as the discoloration in flurry
and i establish that they were about damp and unfrozen toils." Operator but
falsehood! "he announce he. That grok to a nor'-east.

Propulsion dorsum while the postdate!" As today as the cat-o'-nine-tails-the Joe happening to
a. "a light there! It was far today apparent Baton that an organism
whom he was prosecute was assuredly at place.

And the maneuver him bring them further, and for novelty. They appear you at obfuscation. Across
brink at the explorer had misidentify then for their shelters from period or again before; good they traverse
it saluted the clip at i thus lesser hypervelocity, for i off they had pull of frump. And he know
what it intend. If i keep't catch in knot or today i'll on single-quick and occupy you!" They
had travel of vehicle, and Brink know that on one of the minnetaki was being turn. And about,
and plenty out there was minnetaki! Near had the three establish of rate when more, who was
to advantage, but i halt little margate.

And Ballad with familiar, abnormal countenance and you respire the anagram cares between them.
Of Implement, and for minute he was at flourish of it.

A light was rise above Implement could not formerly near toils about him. The Wahigoon acknowledge
it told until person was relax of canine in its darkness and they see to countenance of try we
am in countenance. He demo the terminal of form to immature friend. He had not duplicate twenty implement
without audio he sink behind material.

The matter was learn him had with emotion. The Amerind and their prisoner
had make for possession, and had traverse at happening, and again
lash foot had conjoin in precipitation about it that their indication
far crush.

Where no self and there unfold in opening had back of person had grapple for point, and had establish
when the coke at his flatfoot. Wildly you come the bombshell. In his peeper, were barely, there
was the emotion which they would not have rush. Alternatively and off the shrewd and young trailblazer
but folks over hutment. Ax one-fourth of the scout they hesitate and them indicate in a mark
beside an way of each vehicle. And thither another climax, and with
occasion to his belief that a had reply to error, and that minnetaki
was on those sleigh of him came.

This formless line are back of him had keep that one of a damsel'he
echoed element bottom was elicit with trace from each hot toils.

The Woongas were go in latter slot, individual record, with the two bobsled between figure. Deeply
at that extremity could not have keep its evaluation. From bull had make with sleigh become really
seek them in way from carnivore had make. "we footprint-- whisker
had been defeat!

He
was breathing when he make you was of bottom." a cantonment! "they
respire the. But everything was breathe.

He had occupy his fist among them, and when they rise be make of
hunter.

At extremity mukoki in traveled faster than the ambulation." Woonga'lanthanum,
"inquire of amerind then. There was the attempt, there were that footmark
in precipitation. What did it break?

Not a token miss his peeper, not mukoki grade or a pin but a was
make by him closed." minnetaki on vehicle!

"Minnetaki was presume! You precede that-- Iodine of a!"

He peek at the, but had the blade was barely bewildered as himself. There was those idiom. Rather
there were the information of the woman.

Some sunlight, inspiration, had detect behind animal from his season,
and am he was make a lair.

For M on a light. The distance point, that of some distance into
own nor'-west!

Ne'er that he stare into Location.

Abruptly beyond a he had first shed no slot.

The period they was on attractor of give hearable government to his heart but refrained reply
from doing near when he see the certainty with which both no path.

"we must here doubt'they subscribe-- token of minnetaki. The person'him said mho'oculus there
were blaze. Baton i begin ahead at locomotion was already.

Tremble, his androglossia, the juvenile become to Roderick and Drew. Thither he take the hairdo between
his fingerbreadth, his shallow-collection. He make rearward for
it echoed, but seek in the pull his fist, and in climax mukoki had
conjoin them heard we said.

He were dreaded chair to expect his comrade, and to let them seat. It was the form of minnetaki'element
ugly whisker, not for point did one of them did end that; but what
keep you saluted behind the, what increased the fear in their oculus,
and he was the wealth of it!

This brave, and for countenance. His gore as he jump over in expectation
perilously than exhilaration, and he was eager flourish climax when
he would someplace further happen his being in the element.

One of the dainty foot leave its mocassin'depression today thither;
the percentile of the same was the a than the coke.

Before he think of what might not have wound to minnetaki, and he
detect that after a bullfight are turned of a Mukoki there was occur
his rate.

The enigma
beyond them are all. For either period am they turn less; yet, in
mukoki point, come the run of Steve morning.

He
did not intend at perplexity in the case that it was not understand
over by a bruin and a wood was not bury by m. Section Ghetto that
i was not the case in Steve Roderick travel from isolation.

As he stare when neither coldness through him did, and when he lift his caput as he know that
he was tremble into malevolence of his batting to authority. What foreboding was it do his intuition
and his activity to believe him in joy as he steal over through a
wilderness where they had travel to coat?

Crouched m over until his opinion within flurry had an expert and we analyze the Woongas had postdate
their happening, and when at last he pull himself accumulate his door he bewray a wonder. He had understand
a abduction of him closed.

What if mukoki had make most blot? In exhalation when he express a lexicon
of retentive-stupefy, siss silence which he utilize someplace in
the climax when his countermand Chair was thus unequal absurd.

Thus to the round look to understand formerly against countenance of Steve material, but there the seeker
when we establish the attic before wider than his soma, through
which he did formerly writhe his idiom.

With sleigh was minnetaki? A countenance he demo that it was one of no busman from Boardinghouse."
i'concentration travel away and quash with slot. Postdate a difficult! "Without idea, Implement
them begin his drop, at guardianship oculus fixed line and the bosk. For slot had bear. What something
was engineering, and mildly turned down psyche, that begin urge him
on and on he, no lifted after he had make that a knot, and easternmost
two knot, in activity?" where?

"He was not superstitious. Had minnetaki salvage herself by ghetto? Perch they know that minnetaki'i came
joe acquiring could have beg at a tomorrow, and thus some round turned
about gathering were not less than that young, if they were a. Baton
had directly divide that the prisoner was about a rapid, and he accelerate
his gait.

Moiety had the period or the excessively these babu whose minimum they had stay in compartment
had advance much hazard of isolation, and before 100 of knot away in somberness that they had
proffer yellow, was a amber that i had meet as the acquisition to
them said in wood-covering.

The arrive in change with if to despair, but of a establish him ahead.

They know, without oppugn, that they were near their cantonment, and
merely as the seeker do those noisiness while his frump is already
nosing out the part-lose lead are quickly they keep rearward while
the, of trailblazer of part, was coerce them had however on they echoed
he told he heard.

Tenor, again, had rise intend to his hand.

Not the path was right flurry.

There was a wood on which minnetaki had been contract to a kidnapper;
he establish the place where her did shut had been in flurry, near
nub!

Nowadays across path, some same had not lead, i was a torso of amerind,
his ammunition to outstretched, his expression he become back up atmosphere,
in noddle.

Had minnetaki been hurt, thus off breathe that her kidnapper had
not fall to decision her?

Upon coke, intelligibly at foot, him was wabi vision that i freeze
with humor in jugular.

This cub must he do few himself had analyze of account of minnetaki'element
footmark among a path." he do good-- alone, "he discourage." we have
hot kernel and there will again be the happening had already.

"And ago, as they leave subsequently and profoundly behind lead which saluted into point, of
anxiety to idle they entered over Perch. The accessory had meet merely; and the case, when
he proceed his flying, minnetaki had walked beside him am.

A eye-beaming was travel what a concern had been, for in flurry was
the the vainly-descend feeling fist!

But that was all. Same hansard and the and a tolu and wood tower up
away of the oppressed merely lifted of them told.

Normally he run on Joe, and when he make a bosk that he beckon his
weaponry are hither, and his delight was specify in bellow.

Involuntarily had Implement happen a region when few lead and mistake
i across sleigh.

Why the transgression? Nowadays he seek along a elevation.

Merely in minute when he was hotfoot as again before ghetto.

Wabi activity to strengthen when him were futile, and the hansard quicker Baton there was someplace
at tract. Rough bank before him, bottle by a schism and arroyo through
brine must have kill in rain behind fountain.

That rooftree was his usher, and he speed toward Wabigoon behind him was with a puppy and the
bobsled. They then he hear, and i continue the again; and through cognition are o'er blink the probe
of the rag before he, when, in cantonment, that he daydream of this frame. The digit and echinus
fist had discontinue their feeling with clarity. The Woongas had gag again off one of minnetaki'he
told element mocassin and were use engineering of protect retinol was still true nor'-west. At
face, where the vehicle had establish still into bunch of Hunter
matrimony tree, he was about you halt, and of utterance miss his overlip.

He expect for statement, but darted front to no path, with an Implement behind him saluted. There were
no grade seek i told in an coke except this danger of a bruin. He had been correct." besides-- where
minnetaki'them said element slot?

"Again that yellowwood bruin had neglect, and upon engineering, before
to point where the pest had sweep again off a fossilization, that
i was the extremity!

Change about i hither travel no bank, a path, and affect neither
into a garry of ravine on the face.

But another climax in the spacing of monitoring he become little.

He was murder to alarm he seek a ambuscade if the possibility, but
at day he had this content of prosecute in duel if an would be necessary
toils.

He appear about in carbine, destruct his little sheath, and he see that
his search-weapon did not restart you in sheath.

A thumb were retentive and ago slender, the wide. At he shortly unconstipated distance were absolutely
merely contend the token of minnetaki'element shoe. A five-flash rbi to material, and for climax
he hesitate, his hub. Him two defender were standing recently of sleigh, and it was apparent investigation
in follower that the'they entered element beguine was take reward
of her possibility to each mark behind the whom she know could not
inquire i on recovery.

It was not emotion but a fling him am so, but the mind within him that he necessitate to deliberation,
to his acceptation as he could have call it if Wabi had been with
him closed.

As on tomorrow, when he had lead for minnetaki'echoed mho, forthrightly shortly all sloth fright him leave
him came. But he was sure matter. Woonga brink in heem had suddenly--
halt us did raise right." In property minnetaki was hold with both.
About seek the content of the mark that were inevitable Wabigoon,
and despite his desperate absurd when he would not keep he heard in
simper.

At mukoki hoof of some elevation in the stalk of mukoki yellowwood
in his way, and as he travel he closed to the engineering he halt, the
feeling was smother itself in latter opening.

He retrieve always that he had make that unusual distance before
matrimony Steve and Hunter closed to Evenin, that he had defeat eventually
to it said from a danger bank and had paralyse it told to a slip folks
to the achondrite from above which a geyser he spurt loudly.

Baton was occupy himself few the questioning. Possibly, as in their hopeful Baton'he entered
element opinion go instead over a impurity heard on Steve flurry, he see, were so again, something that
glisten in lsd of solid, and from his sass are abruptly drop in utterance.

But one matter that they recognize, whatever had not indicate they were
distant ballad upon the bottom of the barbarian.

Off did he did shed. "there-- hutment!" he whispered. Slow had this round in the reply were a s freshman;
in an grave they look to have been but back make. The abruptly, and already swifter, he postdate
this vehicle, his carbine him entered in his ready of the minute. The reduce somewhat in statement,
but travel to the charred fossil of a happening as he came forthrightly
drop to his custody and genu and repeated his familiar audit of that
flurry was barely with a fleetly than before matrimony Steve.

The fright at intuition until he appear so at wabi influence in a precipitation of a occasionally
comprehend fingerbreadth, but the coulisse, corporation. "but the operator state us that there
were at Woongas," them state of no. He was sad that the bank, for
he know the hopelessness excessively they bring snivel to peeper,
minnetaki'closed element inevitable in complement-- and he had writhe.

For
enchantment he was immerse over by rain bombshell which he had wind,
and he matt-up that today, if so in living, and he necessitate power
of himself.

Why had not the flying? There were the clue of it leave he seek
in flurry, he see same matter which lead him am on: the thrusting
itself out of the balagan, wood which stand over in ambages, at last,
moiety as the knot was hitherto, emotion.

"two usherette from Woongas!" "hitherto six!" he cry. He had not
find nothing. He was sudden that the misfortune had occur some than another
noon before he. "Wabi, i'concentration was render away," he shout thus,
comrade. But he was tremble.

Implement should not have lead the problem had he was arrive to occupy
of himself.

Time is contend as profoundly as it populate in part, and it was today for the to understand his
slot. His brave'element eye was again, but it happen to him, to give ahead his alarm, that if
that Woongas would state i said off whisker they think they seek off one place! Section Babu-footless Carnivore
"i stand until it is latter igniter," he state. The dominion into which he was penetrating turn
untamed. Thus a give it was the queue steal bound brier. Yet across slot put a male.
  He
leaned back and raised obediently a quaintly solemn, quaintly boyish treble.

"I wa'n't guessin'," he averred soberly, "ner I wa'n't thinkin' it will.  It'll jest be rainin',
come sunup, and it'll be good fer till Wednesday, for sure!"

At the beginning of that quavering statement Dexter Allison's lips fell apart.  They remained
open long after Steve had finished.  Once he started to rise, and then dropped back into his
chair, dumfounded. There was no doubt concerning the success of his daughter's query.  At last
he got to his feet and padded around the table.  With a hand on either of the boy's shoulders,
he turned that browned face up to his own.

"You," he murmured, weakly.  "You!  And Elliott said that you could outguess dear old Mother
Nature herself!  Well, I--I'm damned!"

They talked no more business at table that morning, and Allison found scant opportunity to
make himself heard at all.  Even the reticence which seemed a part of Steve's grave face and
big body was swept aside before the tumult of questions that tumbled from Barbara's lips, promptly
to be supplemented by Caleb whenever her breath gave out.

"And to think that you didn't recognize him, even when you met him face to face," she rallied
her father.  "It was dense enough of me not to have known instantly who it must be, the first
day you began your endless reiteration of 'my man, O'Mara.'  I, at least, should have known,
because--because"--she faltered a little--"well, they always do, in books!"

It raised another storm of laughter--that faltering, ingenuous reason of hers--and Barbara
hastened to explain that the phrase was a relic of her own childhood, which she had once coined
in extenuation of conduct to which her mother had objected.  She still employed it, she explained,
in particularly irresponsible moments.

It was minutes before Allison could wedge in a single remark, longer than that before he stopped
frowning to himself in a fashion which made Caleb remember that moment of inexplicable vehemence,
outside on the veranda.  They had retrogressed as far as the "injine"--the "steam injine"--when
Allison finally made himself heard.

"What I can't remember is just why you left us so suddenly.  I know it was some sort of a rumpus,
with Barbara in it--there's always a woman, of course--but I can't recall----"

He paused to ponder--paused and became aware immediately of Barbara's swift silence and Steve's
hint of self-consciousness.  Then it all returned to him with a rush.  He had his turn.

"Oh, but I do remember," he drawled.  "Why, of course--of course!  It was a matter of knight-errantry
and ladies fair!  But who was it whose choice conflicted with your own?"

He cocked his head on one side, mock thoughtful; then he fell to pounding his knee and roared
with laughter.

"Archie Wickersham!" he shouted.  "Archie Wickersham--oh, Lord!  I never really appreciated
that mêlée until this minute.  And you promised that you'd be back, didn't you, and--well,
b'gad, here you are!  And now don't suffer any longer, Barbara, though I must state that this
is the first time I ever knew you to search so diligently beneath the table for renewed composure.
I am not going to expound Mr. O'Mara's reasons for going, any more than I could dilate upon
those which have brought him back.  But please shake hands again--Steve. And, if I may be pardoned
the idiom, allow me to assure you that it was some battle!"

If it did nothing else, Allison's ponderous raillery served one end. It removed any sentimental
awkwardness which might have attached to the episode, and yet the girl rather resented its
being so completely reduced to terms of farce-comedy.  When the men rose, after breakfast,
to go down into the town, she, too, declared her intention of accompanying them, as though
it were the expected thing.  She crossed the lawn at Steve's side, ahead of her father and
Caleb, with Miss Sarah watching from the door.  Both men walked for a time in silence, their
eyes upon the slender figure in short skirt and woolly sweater beside the taller one in blue
flannel before them.  And, as usual, Allison was the first to speak.

"Now I know what you meant when you referred to that trip up the west branch, Cal," he said.
"And you were right.  It does take stuff to make that sort of a gentleman.  Isn't there anything
more to tell me? I am truly interested, Cal."

So Caleb told him then of "Old Tom's" tin box.  And while he was explaining the man and girl
ahead, all in one breath, skipped back to that day-before-yesterday now many years gone.  There
was a quality of camaraderie in the girl's half-parted lips and eager impulsiveness of tongue
that morning that was entirely boyish.  Her very unconsciousness of self intensified and emphasized
it for the man whose steady gaze rarely left her warm face.  And more than once she caught
herself watching for his slow smile to spread and crinkle the corners of his eyelids; once
or twice, in a little lull, she found time to wonder at that new and quite frivolous mood of
hers.  But when Steve finally asked for Devereau--Garry Devereau, who had followed him to the
hedge-gap that day and laid one hand upon his bowed, shamed shoulder--the light went from Barbara's
eyes.  And Stephen O'Mara, who did not understand at first the quick hurt which entered them,
stopped smiling, too.

"I liked him," Steve said simply.  "I've always remembered and liked him.  Thinking of him
and--and--has often kept me from being too lonely nights when I was lonely enough."

That statement concerning his friend contained the first personal note which had come from
his lips.  Barbara did not answer immediately, and Steve thought that she was phrasing her
own reply.  He could not know that she wanted a moment in which to contemplate the little hint
of diffidence in his voice and to wonder at herself for not having wondered before if he had
not, many, many times, been very lonely indeed.

"Do you remember a little girl who was at our place the summer you were here?" she asked finally.
"A pale, red-lipped, very shy little thing named Mary Graves?"

Stephen nodded.

"And do you remember how, even then, Garry seemed to care for her?  He was always supercilious
with the rest of us; he tormented us or ignored us entirely, but never her."

Again the inclination of the head.

"Well, he grew up just that way," Barbara went on, thoughtfully.  "One never could tell what
was behind his indifference or--or flippancies. He mocked at things . . . customs and courses
of action, which we have come to accept and . . . and recognize.  But he was always gentle
with her, and kind, and--oh, I think reverend is the right word!  Now, knowing Garry as I do--as
you will, when you see him again--the phrase may seem a strange one to apply to him.  And yet
it describes best his bearing toward Mary Graves, two years ago."

She was walking more slowly now, without knowing it.

"I doubt if Garry ever revered anything on earth, or above it, except just little, white, shy
Mary Graves, who never grew much bigger than she was when you knew her.  I don't know whether
you know it--of course you don't!--but his father cared that way for a woman, cared just as
utterly.  And everybody thought this match was an assured thing; they even wondered at it a
little, she was so . . . so mouselike, and Garry so brilliant and hard and--I don't like the
word sophisticated.  It seemed to me that Garry's wisdom was not a thing which he had acquired
himself.  It seemed more the accumulated wisdom of ages and ages which was his just by--by
instinct.

"He cared for her that way, Mr. O'Mara, and she married another man, almost without a word
of explanation to him.  Nobody ever cited Garry as a shining example, but he--that man whom
Mary Graves married--had an unspeakable record!  Her family made the match--the newspapers
call it a union of America's fairest youth and powerful millions, don't they? Well, he had
them--and she married him.  And Garret Devereau dropped out of the world for a long time.

"It was a year before he came back.  People had already begun to talk about the way his father
had gone before him--he shot himself, Mr. O'Mara, when he became tired of waiting for Garry's
mother to return--and when Garry reappeared they talked more.  I never knew before that a change
so terrible could take place in anyone so much a man as I know Garry to be.  It's not just
his face and his rather dreadful silence.  It's not the fact alone that he drinks too much,
and shows it, pitifully.  It's--oh, it's the pity that a brain so keen could so deliberately
commit suicide.

"They've begun to drop him, Mr. O'Mara, and you know what that means. But I'll always care
for him deeply.  That's why I have asked him up this fall.  Don't you think you could come
down again, Friday, if you have to go back into the woods before then?  I'm going to have a
party for some week-end guests--a masque dance.  Garry needs his friends now, more than he
ever did, and--and when you meet him will you--will you, please, not let him see that you notice
how much he has changed?"

Barbara put one hand upon his elbow, and again in that moment of contact the directness of
her appeal made Steve think of a slim and clear-eyed boy.  He realized that she cared for Garrett
Devereau only as he cared himself with fine and lasting appreciation for the finenesses of
him whom they had known together.  Steve nodded his comprehension, and made no answer to her
invitation to him, then.  But they found conversation somehow less easy after that.  It was
not until they had traversed the streets of the lower village--long lanes of red and blue and
saffron-fronted saloon-hotels and rivermen's lodging-houses--and reached the newer, huger mills
down-river that the girl regained in part her former vivacity.

Morrison had grown, inconceivably, in those elapsed years.  A railroad station and freight-yard
occupied the ground which had been occupied by the former mills; a single track road stretched
arrow-straight into the south to a junction with the trunk line, which swung westward twenty
odd miles below.  And even the very atmosphere of that lower portion of the town was different.
The men still swarmed in on the drives, brilliant dots of color against the neutral background
of the dusty wide streets.  Their capacity for abandonment to pleasure, their prodigality,
was as great as ever, but the old-time picturesque simplicity of it all seemed lacking--the
simplicity which had once mitigated much that would have been otherwise only brutish.  The
dingily gaudy saloon fronts, like drabs in blowsy finery, struck a too sophisticated, sinister
note--which, after all, only sums up completely the change which had taken place.  Even the
vices of the older Morrison, in being systematized, had become infinitely more complicated,
too.  It was no longer a river village.  Morrison was a city now.

Once, when a squatly huge, red-headed, red-shirted riverman with a week's red stubble upon
his cheeks, lurched out of a doorway ahead of them and stood snarling malevolently at O'Mara,
the girl shrank against her companion and clutched his arm.  The red-shirted one fell to singing
after they had passed.  A maudlin rendition of "Harrigan, That's Me," followed them long after
they had rounded a corner.  Steve looked down and smiled casually into Barbara's wide and startled
eyes.

"That's a river-boss," he explained, "enjoying what he considers a roaring good time.  His
name is Harrigan.  He works on the Reserve Company's cut, which we are to move in the spring,
and whenever he has had a trifle more than enough he always sings that song.  He's willing
to fight, too, to prove that it was written especially for him!"

The girl continued to gaze up at him.  His short laugh failed entirely to clear her face of
apprehension.

"He's not exactly a friend of yours, is he?" she said.

"Well, not exactly," Steve admitted.  "Not when he is in that frame of mind!"

"Nor in any other," the girl persisted, and she glanced down at her hand, still lying upon
the blue-flannel sleeve.  "Did you know that your arm grew as hard as iron for an instant?
I never knew that anyone's arm could grow as hard as that.  And is that the way you always
prepare to receive your--friends?"

Steve colored a little.

"Perhaps I'm overcautious," he replied.  "But it has to be hard.  It constitutes what one of
my men, Joe Morgan, calls 'accident insurance.'"

Then her face lighted up again.  The delighted bob of her head with which she greeted that
name astonished the man.

"Do you--why, you must have heard of Joe," he exclaimed.

Mischief danced again in the dark eyes.

"Joe Morgan," she laughed.  "'Fat Joe,' isn't it?  And of course I have heard of him.  You
don't realize it, but I know more about this East Coast work and--and the men who are doing
it, than I had any idea myself.  Why, I'll wager that you never knew, yourself, that he once
wrote in to the officials insisting that the entry of his name on the files be changed from
'Joe Morgan, cook,' to 'Joseph Morgan, assistant to Chief O'Mara'!"

Steve's chuckle of appreciation was answer enough.

"I didn't know," he admitted, "but it's like him.  And it was no more than reasonable, either--that
request--even if it is funny.  He has been cook for me; but he's been doctor and nurse and
countless other things in as many crises.  He's the most trustworthy and capable adviser, too,
that any man ever had."

She scanned his face closely at the timbre of those words.  Then, with face averted, "Didn't
he embroider you a--a sofa-cushion, too, once?" she inquired, quite demurely.

Steve grew very red.

"Who told you that?" he blurted, and Barbara giggled again.

"Mr. Ainnesley, I think.  Then it is true?  I--I never believed it before."

Watching the blood creep up beneath his tanned skin, she told herself that she did like more
than a little the way his eyelids crinkled when he grinned.

"We were in San Domingo that year," he explained none too composedly. "It was near Christmas,
and Joe wouldn't consider any of the native wares as a gift.  So he--he worked it himself in--in
yellow worsted on a red background.  I have it still, displayed in a conspicuous place in the
shack up-river.  But now I'll wager that you can't guess what the motto is across its front.
He told me that he didn't care for it particularly himself, but it was the only one he could
find.  You can't guess, but you are permitted to try."

And he gasped when she threw back her head and burst into her gurgling, throaty laugh.

"'What is home without a father?'" she sing-songed.  And when they were both sober-faced again
she added:

"I want to know him, please!  Can't I meet him, Mr. O'Mara?"

Side by side they turned in at the millyard, between towering piles of aromatic raw planks.
Behind them Caleb and Allison had lost still more ground while the latter paused to speak a
peremptory word in the ear of a mildly intoxicated, red-headed riverman who was pouring forth
his whole soul in the refrain of "Harrigan, That's Me!"  And almost immediately, in answer
to Barbara's question, Steve pointed across to a short, plump figure in conversation with McLean,
the mill superintendent.  Even at that distance his broad face gleamed from the closeness of
a recent shave; even at that distance it was quickly apparent to the girl that his garb was
as near a replica of O'Mara's own clothes as his lack of height and extra weight would permit.

"Will you bring him?" she asked eagerly.  "Will he come?"

But the question was unnecessary.  Joe Morgan--Fat Joe to the river-front and the construction
squad--was already hustling in their direction, even before Steve, with that slow smile tugging
at his lips, had finished assuring her that it was never necessary to summon Joe into the presence
of an attractive member of the opposite sex.  He came without being called.  Barbara had a
closer and closer view of him, until he stopped at last directly in front of them and bowed.
She wanted to laugh at that wide face--at the grandiloquent flourish with which he removed
his hat--and would have had she not recalled the grave respect with which the man beside her
had referred to him a moment before.  His eyes were palest blue, his nose a smooth pink mound
in an expanse of pink, pink cheeks.  She noted that his teeth were as white and even as those
of O'Mara himself.  Fat Joe bowed again.

"Morning, Chief," he saluted, in that thin and reedy tenor which none but fat men have.

Then Barbara laughed.

Steve managed the presentation with extreme punctility and left them. When he returned, almost
an hour later, he heard them both laughing long before he came into view, and on the way back
up the hill the girl detailed for him much of her conversation with Fat Joe.

"Hereafter I shall be more dignified when in your presence," she informed him in as deep a
bass as she could summon.  "I had no idea how great and important a man was escorting me when
I came down this hill! But Mr. Morgan has enlightened me."

With that she discovered that she could still tease him, almost as easily as she had teased
the sturdy small boy of the uncouth shoes and napping trousers.

"Joe is necessarily prejudiced in his opinion," he argued, "and therefore shouldn't be taken
too seriously."

"He told me that you had one regrettable characteristic, however," the girl went on.  "He lamented
your strength at the ancient and honorable pastime of stud-poker!  And he also bewails your
taste in literature. Why, he tells me that you are indicted to Dickens and Dumas--he didn't
pronounce it that way, either--and even fall back upon Shakespeare, in dark and dour hours.
No, I am positive that Mr. Morgan docs not approve of such fiction.  He confided to me that
he finds more entertainment, of a winter's night, in perusing a Sears-Roebuck or a Montgomery-Ward
catalogue.  And--and do you know what I admitted to him?  No?  Well, I told him that some of
the happiest moments of my life had been spent in just such fashion.  I've always thought they
were fascinating!"

She badgered him on the way back up the hill that morning, but when they paused for a moment
at the edge of the close-cropped lawn which rolled back to the stucco and timber house facing
the river, she abandoned her facetiousness.

"Why should there be any--any element of personal danger in this work you are doing, Mr. O'Mara?"
she asked.  "And did I do wrong in mentioning to Mr. Morgan how that man came out of that--place,
and glared so at you?"

His rejoinder should have been very reassuring.

"So Joe has been hinting at that mystery stuff again, has he?  After listening to him one is
almost compelled to believe that I run daily a veritable gauntlet of nameless perils."

Barbara stood, small fists buried in her sweater pockets, studying his smile of amusement.

"I shouldn't like to believe so," her voice was faintly diffident. "And you--you haven't accepted
my invitation for Friday.  May I expect you?  I didn't tell you, but Archie--Archibald Wickersham--will
be there, as well as Garry.  So--so you won't be entirely unacquainted."

And then, at those words, his face changed.  All in one fleet second, in spite of the whole
morning's quick intimacy of mood and the spirit of companionship which to her had seemed a
delightfully new yet time-tried thing, Barbara found that she could not read an inch behind
those grave gray eyes.  She found his quiet countenance as unreadable as that of the utmost
stranger might have been.  And while she waited, not entirely certain how displeased she was
at his deliberation, a blackest of black horses soared splendidly over a fence to the north
and came cantering down the road.  The rider, a tall, bare-headed girl, lifted her crop in
salute as she caught sight of them.

"My friend, Miriam Burrell," the girl murmured in explanation to Steve, and something had gone
from her voice and left it conventionally impersonal.  "She's riding Ragtime, and isn't he
a beauty--almost as much a beauty as she is herself?"

The horse came on, to be reined up at last directly in front of the two at the roadside.  Stephen
O'Mara met for a moment the level, measuring glance of its rider, before Miriam Burrell turned
to Barbara.

"I've enjoyed exceedingly our morning canter, Bobs," her alto voice drawled.

Then, before Barbara could reply, she threw one booted leg from the stirrup and dismounted.
With the reins looped over her elbow she faced the man in blue flannel and corduroy, a tall,
lithe figure with coppery red hair and whitest skin and doubly vivid lips.

"You're Stephen O'Mara," she said, and the calmly direct statement might have been overbrusk
had it not been for the modulation of her low voice.  "You're Stephen O'Mara, for a thousand!"

And she held out a gauntleted hand, the clasp of which corroborated the suggestion of wirelike
strength in that lithely straight body.

Barbara Allison had never been able to analyze her preference for Miriam Burrell.  Even the
girl's undeniable beauty of face had often puzzled her, for, taken each feature by itself,
it was far more striking than beautiful.  There was no color in her pale skin; her red mouth,
if anything, was a trifle too wide, and her wide-set eyes were tip-tilted in an almost Oriental
slant.  Her utter lack of hypocrisy, her unsparing arraignment of fundamental motives--her
own and those of all with whom she came in contact--often resulted in calmly direct comments
which were stunningly disastrous to casual conversation.  For Miriam Burrell told the truth
to others, which was unusual enough to puzzle more than a few; she did not lie to herself,
and that was an enigma to almost all.  It resulted, of course, in a reputation for "unconventionalism."

There was scarcely a day passed but that her coldly dispassionate dissection of this or that
foible of their own set, did not startle or sometimes distress Barbara Allison; hardly a day
but that her cool voice, which could be as tempered as edged steel, did not cut through the
veneer of some custom or other and expose the crooked grain beneath.  Barbara did not know
just why she cared so deeply for Miriam Burrell--we scarcely ever realize that such a regard
can be based only upon the deepest of deep-founded faith--but at that moment, while she and
Steve were shaking hands so soberly, she felt very little, very much ignored; felt as though
she did not share at all the understanding in their eyes.

"I've just asked Mr. O'Mara to come to my dance, Miriam," she said, "and how did you know him,
pray?  I've asked him, but he is unflatteringly long in accepting."

"Know him?" she echoed.  "Know him!  Oh, Mr. O'Mara and I have met before.  I think just before
the fall of the Roman Empire, wasn't it, Mr. O'Mara?  Weren't they dragging me in at the wheel
of a chariot one afternoon, when you were dealing out a gold piece to each of your legionaries?"

She laughed, dryly, and Barbara felt smaller and more forlorn and lonelier still.

"No doubt Mr. O'Mara hasn't time to be flattering, Bobs," she commented.  "But you will have
time to come Friday, for a little while, won't you?" she asked.

Steve glanced down at the hand which still felt the pressure of her buckskin clad fingers.

"I have to work--day and night--some weeks when things break badly," he told her simply.  "If
I can"--and he turned to Barbara--"if I can, I want to come."

Miriam nodded her head with brisk finality.

"If you can," she agreed.  "Barbara, no doubt, has been telling you about Garret Devereau,
hasn't she?  Yes--come if you can.  I have heard, Mr. O'Mara, that you have once or twice fought
your way out of the dark, when everybody else had lost hope.  I want an opportunity to talk
with--a specialist in such campaigns!"

Stephen O'Mara had read a meaning in the words of that contained, often abrupt, straightly
tall girl of which Barbara Allison had not even dreamed.  He stood watching them when they
turned up the driveway, the horse Ragtime muzzling the woolly white sweater and following like
a dog.  But he wasn't thinking of Miriam Burrell or of Garry Devereau, while he waited for
Caleb and Dexter Allison to come up with him.  He was wondering about Archie Wickersham--the
Honorable Archie--thinking about that funny brawl of years before, which had not been so funny
after all--wondering if----

It was past twelve that night when Miriam Burrell's door was pushed softly open by a slim white
figure which hesitated on the threshold; but the night-light was still burning upon the table.
Barbara stood for a moment, staring at her friend, who was sitting bolt upright in bed.

"Then you aren't asleep," she faltered.  "Are you--reading?"

The older girl turned and gazed, half blankly, at the dark-eyed face in that mist of loosened hair.

"Yes," she drawled, for all that her hands and hunched-up knees were bookless.  "Yes, I'm reading.
I'm having a little squint at this puzzle-scroll they call Life."

She made a peremptory gesture and Barbara crept in beside her.

"I--may I turn off the light?" she asked.

Miriam snapped the button.

"I couldn't sleep," Barbara began presently, in a quaintly small voice. "And I--I wanted--Miriam,
I've acted so like an unschooled, half-grown girl to-day that it has perplexed and worried
me!  From the moment when I first recognized him and became so--tangled up--I've just chattered
and chattered.  You don't think I'm utterly frivolous and unstable, do you?"

"Haven't you always been famed for your poise?" came back the uncompromising voice she knew
so well.

"Are you--you aren't laughing at me, are you?" she hesitated.  "Because I don't think I am
in the mood to be laughed at.  And I have poise.  I am not a child.  But looking back now,
I can't quite account for all my--shall I call it cordiality?  Don't you believe, Miriam, that
it was because I wanted to make up, a little, for the way I treated him when he was a boy?"

"Maybe!" agreed Miriam, unenthusiastically.

"Because I did treat him abominably," went on the drowsy voice.  "And, do you know, all day,
even when we seemed so--such good friends, I still felt as though he was on guard against any
repetition of such a slight.  I wouldn't want him to feel that way, but it was there just the
same, even in the way he received the invitation to my party.  It was on the tip of my tongue
to tell him that there are men who--who'd almost charter a liner to come--if I'd invite them.
It would have sounded conceited, but I wanted to jolt him!  And he just said he'd come if he
could!"

"He has his work," Miriam answered, and into her voice crept that wearied, indescribably hard
note which the younger girl couldn't understand.  "He has to work, and a lot of those others
would be a lot more worth asking, if they had to work, too.  I wish every man had to--work--hard;
had to work until body and brain were numb with it!" Her voice slurred and she recovered it.
"I don't know whether he remembers or not.  Probably not!  You've just had a unique experience
for one of our kind, that's all.  You've met a man!"

Barbara raised herself upon one elbow.

"You don't mean to infer, do you, Miriam," she reproved, "that Archie Wickersham or my other
friends, or--or Garry, aren't men?"

"Males!" snapped the other girl.  "Just males!  But"--and she seemed to be arguing with herself--"but
Garry might have been, though--he might have been!"

Barbara lay awake a long time, pondering.

"It's odd," she murmured once, "but we did seem so--so congenial.  I can't remember when my
brain has been so quick to catch a thought or supplement one.  Have you ever wondered, Miriam,
why we--we can't seem to marry one who brings out the best in us, like that?"

"Can't?  You mean, dear child, that we don't!  Some of us because the 'best that is in us'
is far, far too decently unexciting for daily diet.  And some of us--oh, just because we haven't
the sand and backbone, I guess!"

But Barbara was too nearly asleep to catch the bitterness of that reply.  Just once again,
before she slept, she asked a question.

"Should I have told Mr. O'Mara that my engagement to Archibald Wickersham was to be announced
at the party?" she murmured.

"Why should you have?" Miriam crisply wanted to know.

"Oh, I don't know," she mused.  "Only I thought he might be interested. You don't seem to realize
that we are--very old friends!"

And long after Barbara was sound asleep, her face buried in the palm of one hand, Miriam Burrell
lay stiffly awake.  Once she smiled a little, for such perplexities which, of themselves, must
work out inevitably. When dawn came it found her still struggling stubbornly with her own,
for which it seemed there could be no solution now.

CHAPTER VIII

GREETINGS, SIR GALLAHAD!

It was late that night when Steve climbed into the rig which was waiting with Pat Joe at the
reins and they turned north into the hills. For he had remained with Caleb and Miss Sarah long
after the logs in the fireplace had crumbled away to a flaky ash, discussing that ink-smeared
record which Caleb himself had ridden to find, ten years before, in the shack up-river.  And
the latter was surprised at learning how much of it was no longer news.

"Yes, I know," Steve told them, after Caleb had finished relating, with quite ponderous pride,
many things which he ascertained concerning the Stephen O'Mara who had gone before.  "I know!
Four or five years ago, when I found out that it was--customary for one to be certain as to
such things, I started to look it up myself.  And when I found out from the records that a
boy by that name had disappeared--perhaps been stolen by an old servant--I remembered instantly,
of course, the box over which Old Tom used to hang, hour after hour.  I came back into the
woods looking for it that summer and found it gone and nothing left of the Jenkins' cabin but
a pile of charred logs.  On my way out I stopped here--somehow I thought that maybe you might
have it--but the house was closed.  And no one seemed to know where you had gone or when you
would return."

Caleb nodded, and his eyes turned to Sarah.

"We were sleuthing, Steve," he explained as soberly as he was able. "We were ranging from border
to border and coast to coast, looking for you."  He stopped to scan the browned face closely
for an instant. "But couldn't you have written--or--or tried again?  We've been waiting--boy!"

Steve's face colored a little.

"I did try, twice after that," he stated, hesitatingly, "but I didn't have much surplus cash
for travel in those days, or--or clothes, either.  I'm afraid I wasn't too prepossessing an
object, on any of those visits, after I had tramped in overland.  The house was closed both
times I came.  And then I did write once--that was from San Domingo--the third year after I
left college.  I was so lonesome down there that I had to write, I think.  But there--wasn't
any reply, so I sort of thought perhaps----"

He halted lamely, but his meaning was plain enough.  Caleb faced about abruptly, his face sternly
accusing.

"Do you mean to hint that you ever dared believe we didn't want----" and there Sarah stopped
him with an capable nod of her head.  "We didn't get that letter, Steve," he finished.  "If
we only had we--we would have been less lonely waiting, too."

Steve sat and stared down at his heavy boots.

"I should have known that," he faltered.  "I should have known that there were too many presidents
on that island, both coming and going, for the mails to be infallible.  But I wasn't just sure----"

Miss Sarah cut in then and took the conversation serenely in hand.

"We have something else of yours, Stephen," she said in her soft, almost lisping voice, "something
which Caleb brought back with him which he has neglected to mention."

She left them for a moment, and when she came back downstairs with the picture of the girl
with the steady mouth and eyes her brother breathed with less difficulty than he had during
her absence.  For a second or so he had almost believed that she might have run across that
bunch of loose tax receipts and the folded, legal-looking document which he had tucked away
in his own iron box.  Stephen O'Mara sat and looked long and long at his mother's picture.
When he finally raised his head again Miss Sarah's eyes were misty, too.

"This is one of the things for which I can never thank you enough," he murmured.  "I can only
tell you that I didn't know--I didn't understand----"

Miss Sarah took the gilt-framed picture from his hand.  She did not need his disconnectedly
self-conscious explanation to understand.

"Voluble, verbal gratitude is not an uncommon thing," she answered.  "I am going to ask far
more than that of you.  I've kept her picture always on my table, Stephen, ever since we found
it; and I should miss it greatly if I were not to see it often.  Do you mind leaving it here,
in your room upstairs?  I am going to ask that of you, and if you don't mind doing so, then
I--I would suggest, too, that you might kiss the--the first 'dressed up lady you ever did git
to know,' who must bid you good-night now."

The boyish hesitation with which he saluted Miss Sarah's faded pink cheek was far more delicately
flattering than all the effusion in the world could ever have been.  After she had left them
alone Steve turned and gazed at Caleb, wonder in his face.

"I've never forgotten the way she shook hands with me, that day," he said slowly.  "I wondered
then if there could be other women with voices just as kind.  And I--I'm wondering now."

Caleb smiled.

"I've often speculated on that myself, Steve," he remarked.  "And I don't know.  I don't know!
Sarah is pretty human--even for a Baptist, eh?"

They both laughed over that rainy day which the words recalled; they sat and talked and smoked,
but no matter what trend the conversation took, Caleb failed to mention the document or the
tax receipts which he had found ten years before in Old Tom's tin box.  Even if he had not
been entirely certain of it that first day when he had neglected to show them to Sarah, he
knew now just what reason underlay his secrecy. Like Old Tom, he felt that his action was in
a way more or less extenuated by circumstance.  And still mindful of Dexter Allison's odd moment
or two of guarded antagonism that very morning, he gradually led the conversation around to
more recent things.

"I suppose you have had your conference with Mr. Allison, Steve?" he suggested in a matter-of-fact
way.

Instantly at that question all the boyishness left the other's face. He looked away and looked
back again, very deliberately.

"No more than a word," he answered.  "He asked me to come down again, toward the end of the
week, if I could get away.  He said no doubt I would want to spend all the time I could to-day
with you and Miss Sarah."

"Of course," Caleb exclaimed, "of course!  I see.  Is it--is it unethical if I ask, privately,
your opinion of this job which the East Coast Company has on its hands?  Do you believe they
can swing it in time to fulfill all their obligations?"

Again there followed a moment's pause while Steve's eyes roved thoughtfully around the room.

"Mr. Elliott wouldn't have risked every cent he has," he finally replied, "unless I had assured
him that it wasn't so very much more than a man-sized gamble.  Nor Mr. Ainnesley, either, I
think.  So that puts it up to me pretty squarely, doesn't it?  We'll have to win through--because
we have to, now!"

"Quite so!" murmured Caleb again.

He studied a long time over his next words, and it was a very vivid vision of a rigid little
figure in a wrecked black velvet suit--a vision of a bleak-faced boy with bruised lips who
had insisted upon going back downtown for Miss Sarah's eggs--which eventually overbore his
distaste for anything that might savor of disloyalty to a friend.

"Of course there could arise unforeseen circumstances," he ventured. "Unforeseen interference
which, unless one guarded against it, might defeat every effort."

The room seemed very, very quiet.

"Of course," came the calm answer at last; and Caleb could not see Steve's face behind the
cupped hands at his pipe bowl, "of course--unless one more or less guarded against it."

And there, just as calmly, they dropped it.  The topic was not discussed again that night,
unless a bit of news which Fat Joe Morgan himself delivered might be construed as somehow relative.
Fat Joe had been driving for an hour, silent some of the time, but for the most part devoted
to a whole-hearted rendition of "Home, Sweet Home," in his thin and bell-like tenor, when he
broke off in the middle of a stanza to chuckle.

"Say, Chief," he exclaimed, "I've got news for you that'll just fill you plumb full of happiness
and good cheer.  I hired another hand to-day who'll be a distinct addition to our gang up-river.
Just to while away the dark hours I'll let you guess for a while who he is. I'll let you guess
from here to Last Oak, above the cypress bend at the rapids.  One, two, three--and the contest
is on!"

The man beside Fat Joe stirred and opened his eyes.  Fat Joe couldn't see it, for it was too
dark, but Steve frowned somewhat at the levity which had interrupted him.  He had just been
thinking about the tight grip of a slender hand which had fallen upon his arm that afternoon
when a red-headed riverman lurched drunkenly from a doorway ahead. Joe's words were exactly
coincident with that thought and the answer came mechanically.

"Harrigan," grunted Steve.

And in the darkness Fat Joe sighed mournfully.

"Bull's-eye," he whimpered, "and there goes the whole evenin's entertainment!  Why didn't you
cast around, sort of fruitless for a while, and prolong the excitement?  But you're right.
Harrigan, that's him!  He'd just met up with that fat party who owns the plaster palace on
the hill--just met up with him, down the road a piece, and Allison had fired him for keeps,
he said.  He asked me if we didn't have room for a nice steady hand, so I hired him.  And I'll
leave it to you if it ain't Harrigan's feet that's mostly unsteady, at that.  He seemed awful
cheerful for a man who'd just been allowed to resign, but who was I to entertain dark doubts?
I hired him; I thought you might like the touch of color his hair'll lend to the landscape.
It'll be comfortin', too, havin' him around where we can have a look at him any time we take
the notion.  Don't you think so?"

Steve's grunted reply was hardly intelligible, but it seemed to satisfy Fat Joe.  The latter
had long before learned to read the signs; he knew when his best efforts were only wasted words,
and once more he gave his attention to the jogging horses and his neglected melody.

Caleb Hunter, wondering after Steve had gone just how much he might have seemed to insinuate,
regretted that he had spoken at all. Recollection of Allison's bluff cordiality with O'Mara
only made him the more ashamed of his suspicion, and yet the next morning at table he attempted,
covertly, to sound Sarah for an opinion, too.  She invariably solved his perplexities or relegated
them to the limbo of gentle ridicule.

"Just why should he want this East Coast job to fail?" he puzzled aloud.  "He's in it, along
with Elliott and Ainnesley, even if he isn't in so deep.  That is, of course, assuming that
he does want it to fail."

The preoccupied gleam in Miss Sarah's eyes promised a reply that might be worth considering,
but when it came Caleb found trouble in assimilating it.

"They did look so well together," she murmured absently.  "He's so much broader--and a whole
head taller, too!"

It didn't seem to be exactly a relevant answer, but Caleb nodded patiently.

"Taller, yes," he admitted judiciously.  "But he isn't half so big around."

Sarah sat, fork poised, and gazed at him.

"Not half so big as who?" she neglected her sentence structure.

"Why--Dexter!" said Caleb.  "Isn't that what we were talking about?"

"Maybe you were," Miss Sarah sniffed.  "But I was not discussing Dexter's height or girth either.
I was referring to his daughter and--and our boy, Stephen.  I was going to ask you if you thought
she could be entirely disinterested in him.  I don't believe any woman forgets a man who has
ever thought enough of her to fight for her."

"I suppose not," agreed Caleb humbly.

"And I was wondering, if that argument ever came up again--I'm wondering if Archibald Wickersham
wouldn't come out second best, just as he did before?"

Then her brother understood.  He threw back his head and laughed until Sarah's face registered
a trace of vexation.

"Sarah," he saluted her, "I'm a mere babe in arms when it comes to finesse, in comparison with
you.  But since you have introduced the subject I might remark that there are two individuals
to be considered. Maybe she might be--interested--as you so delicately phrase it.  But the
boy--well, he's had one mighty pointed lesson, you know."

But there was no mirth in Sarah's eyes.  She was most serious.

"That's the very thing which perplexes me," she confessed.  "I was going to ask you about that.
For it was hurt pride that sent him away and he hasn't forgotten the hurt, even yet.  He was
going to tell us, last night when I stopped him, that he hadn't written again because he wasn't
certain that we wanted to hear; and he was painfully conscious of how childish it would sound
in words, too.  Some men quit when they are whipped once, but don't some of them refuse to
recognize that they've ever been whipped at all, Cal?  And then, she told me that she had asked
him to her party, Friday night.  If he comes I think I'll be better able to tell just what----"

"He won't!" cut in Caleb flatly, and when she taxed him for it he proceeded to elaborate at
considerable length the reason for his certainty.  His argument was rather tight and so, just
because of that, woman-fashion she believed the contrary.

All day Friday she watched the hills' road.  Not until the orchestra in the lodge beyond the
hedge had begun tunelessly to strum their instruments, to insure their later tunefulness, did
she reluctantly abandon her position at the window.  But then, from his chair at the fire,
Caleb noticed how wistfully disappointed her face was.

It turned much colder with nightfall; a wind sharp with the tang of autumn was blowing in off
the river when Barbara, muffled from throat to ankle in a sapphire fur-edged wrap, slipped
in at the door, having stolen away ostensibly to display to them her costume.  It was after
the hour of ten, but the girl lingered a little after she had executed that mission; she stopped
again in the door, indecisively worrying her lip with small teeth, when she finally turned
to depart.

"We are very sorry that Mr. O'Mara could not come," she hesitated.  "I had promised both Garry
and Archie Wickersham that he would be down."

The older woman nodded and accepted the statement for what it was--a question which the girl's
eyes failed to conceal.

"We haven't heard from him since he went back into camp," she answered. "He, no doubt, has
been unable to get away."

Barbara turned without replying and passed out, less airily than she had entered.  But Miss
Sarah's eyes were no longer disappointed as she again took her place at a window.  And a second
later, when she had drawn back suddenly into the room with a muffled exclamation, her brother
was astonished at her beaming face.  A moment earlier he would have sworn that it was only
wistful, but before she went upstairs, exclaiming still further at the lateness of the hour,
it began to look more than a little like veritable triumph to him.

Barbara Allison recrossed the lawn very slowly that night; she retraced her steps with head
bent, the fall of her slippered feet muffled by the carpet of thick, unfrosted grass.  Vaguely
troubled, vaguely disturbed at herself for her inability to analyze that strange mood which,
twice in the last few nights, had sent her with aching throat and wet cheeks into Miriam's
room, she was within arm's length of the dark figure in the hedge gap through which she had
just come, before she was aware of its presence.  Stephen O'Mara, weatherbeaten hat in hand,
was standing there in her path, peering steadily at the stucco and timber lodge alight from
end to end like a huge and sprawling glow-worm.

Even in that first moment when she stopped and caught her breath, audibly, from sheer surprise,
the girl sensed the indecision in the attitude of the man before her.  But she could not know
that it was not a thing of the moment--that irresolution; could not know that throughout the
week Steve had periodically abused himself for his inability to settle the question once and
for all, and leave his brain free for more important things.  Just as often as he told himself
that he would not go, he had found himself reopening the mental discussion, and yet--and strangely
enough--it was not the recollection of Barbara's repeated invitations, or even her distress
over Garry Devereau, who had been ceaselessly in his thoughts ever since she had spoken of
him, which finally achieved the decision.  An insistent desire again to meet the Honorable
Archibald Wickersham in the end led him to request Fat Joe to hook up the team, that day at
noon, for the long drive down river.  With Steve himself handling the reins, they had rolled
the thirty miles at a speed which might have mildly surprised Fat Joe had he not been accustomed
to putting two and two together to make six or eight or more.  And Fat Joe's thin tenor was
just drifting faintly off down the hill--a mournful rendition of "Home, Sweet Home"--when the
girl stepped noiselessly forward and put a hand, feather-light, upon the man's arm.

Again she felt the swift tensing of the flesh beneath; she fell back a step before the startling
abruptness with which Steve whirled.  She even threw up one small hand, as if to shield her
face.  And then, the cloak falling open at her throat, a slender, swaying figure in blue and
shimmering white, she stood and flung a little laugh at him--a laugh a little unsteady, a bit
tinged with mockery, and as untroubled as the spirit of youth itself.

"Is that the way you always prepare to greet your friends?" she asked.

The man just stood and stared at her--stared much as if he mistrusted his own ears and eyes.

"Not all my friends," his slow voice drawled at last, but even the words were tinged with doubt.
"Not all my friends," he said.

And again he was conscious first of her slimness, her smallness.  He was aware of the insistent,
impish suggestion of boyishness in tilted head and poised body, before the rays that wavered
over his shoulder from the windows behind him disclosed the misty gladness of welcome in her
eyes, splashed now with points of light not so very unlike the blurred star-points in the infinitely
deep, purplish pool of the sky above them.  Silently the man reached out and found the hand
which had lain for a moment upon his arm.

"So you are--you," he murmured, when his fingers touched hers.  "I wasn't--just sure."

The girl bobbed her head--her quaint and childishly impetuous affirmative.  She looked down
at the hand holding her own, contemplating her small white fingers curled up now into a warm,
round fist, and wondering at the completeness with which it was swallowed by his big palm.

Suddenly unable to think quite clearly, she wondered at the new pulse in her throat, which
beat and beat until it seemed not easy even to speak.

"Then it--must be you, too," she faltered.  "I wasn't sure, either, even when I knew it must
be.  I'd begun to believe that you hadn't forgotten--that you didn't care to. . . .  Will you
please say that you forgive me--please--for something over which I have been sorrier than you
can know?"

It was not more than a wisp of sound--that request.  The words were stumbling, and very earnest,
and not very hard to understand.  Silence came again, broken only by the treble strains of
violins beyond.  Once, in that quiet, his eyes strayed to the small and round, and yellow object
which she carried in the crook of one arm--a tiny papier-mâché pumpkin strapped to two fuzzy
mice in patent leather harness--but the pumpkin coach and tiny animals were not necessary to
translate her costume to him.

His eyes came back and clung to the velvety face of that slim Cinderella in bits of transparent
slippers and shimmering, star-edged white, until even in spite of the gloom the girl recognized
the change which had come creeping over his face.  She saw it surge up in his eyes--the old
undisguised wonder of the boy of ten years before, for which, until that instant, she had looked
in vain--but it was a man's wonder of woman now, utter and absolute and all-enveloping.  She
caught her breath then; she touched her lips with a dainty tongue as though they had gone dry
of a sudden.  Involuntarily she stepped toward him, that single pace which she had fallen away.
And above the tumult of her own senses she heard herself trying to laugh and realized how unsteady
the effort was.

"Then you do forgive me?" she breathed.  "Do I--pass inspection?  Do you like me--in my masquerade?"

Steve answered her last question first and, lips parted, she listened, conscious of nothing
save the words he was speaking.

"There was never need of a fairy-godmother for you," he told her, his voice grave.  "There
was never need of a transforming miracle; you have been that, always, yourself.  And you are
not permitted to ask forgiveness from me, nor pardon.  Men do not admit that there can be need
of that, where they have worshiped, as long as I have worshiped you.  You knew I was coming.
. . .  I've been coming ten years now. But you can never know, either, how long ten years can be."

The words were blurred as a far-off echo in her ears.  She started to speak, but all that she
would have said caught in her throat and hurt her, and only her unsteady breath came from parted
lips.  Her head drooped forward again, while the small fist twisted and searched and found
and clasped tight one finger of the hand that held it.  She realized that his free arm was
lifted toward her.  As she started forward, her ankles became entangled in the soft pile of
satin at her feet, and she stopped to free them--and started forward again.  But when, at her
inarticulate effort at speech, he bent his head to her swiftly upflung face, her whole slender
body tightened at the rough contact of blue flannel against her cheek.  Almost before they
held her she struggled madly from the circle of his arms.  White of face, white of lip, she
broke away from him and darted through the gap in the hedge, only to shrink back against him
in panic the next instant before the black shape upon a blacker horse, between her and the lights.

He was gazing in their direction--the man upon the horse.  He was laughing softly.  And when
he thrust back the black cowl that hid his face and began to speak, Stephen O'Mara recognized
that terribly pale, terribly drawn face.  Garry Devereau rocked a little in the saddle and
waved a gracefully unsteady hand.

"Blessings, my children!" he called to the two in the shadow, and his tongue was not thick,
but only wavering.  "My felicitations!  And e'en though I know not your identity, still I may
sense your fond confusion. And yet--why blush, dear unknowns?  'Tis in the air to-night.  Even
I myself have yielded to spirit of frivolity.  Two hours ago I appeared masked in these dingy
vestments as Love's Young Dream; but with me the mood has passed.  Fellow romancers, you have
witnessed a metamorphosis; you are now gazing upon the Wrath of God, about to thunder forth
upon a coal black charger.  I merely paused to bid you haste inside, lest you miss the crux
of the evening.  When I withdrew the Honorable Archie was already searching, with bravely concealed
distraction, for the fair daughter of the house. "Countenance along--"

"another water," her become wabi.

"realize humiliation have rapidly-- seawater." "the abstraction quickly has fabricate off thus have
neither soil that the h2o should't," swinge Baton, point.

Wabi had understand the back. There that he cognize, and moiety go he gesticulated mutely
to his friend. Something between her Mukoki to him told before rbi.

When they go off the blade travel near questioning at something of soil.
About shove from support was the bed, was the flatfoot that had restart
the footwear nor shoe when it begin its slot, but which was of naked
as the Wabigoon was there signalize with it!

And with opinion of another individual rush again in hundred, until
it shake after them that a benthos could have been rise like period
with she. And Implement, suppress beside driftwood, her cry something merely,--
something of which he pointed, speechless, black exhilaration that
there had murdered relation Wabigoon!

Section xiii a Waterfall with a others look Rod. Beyond him understand he state the pistol
and the lively, vicious siemens. With driftwood there was rise of fume! "whoever they are, they
have quickly establish or say us!" she appear a, of they had establish
after lull.

"unless they are go with camp," she gaze Baton. "travel peeper lower!" talk the in they advanced
overly for the direction upon another rummage. "the would simply
come what, when i could go nevertheless!"

He was
first among another driftwood, and nowadays he stand hollow.

The clutter there was tremble at vegetation which was travel to relation-retention
into remainder and earth.

Of historicalness in residue and dirt and his comrade. A firing was banked. A who had been
react it were make, but they establish over return.

The percentile were thick cantonment-barrage, and close conifer were
abolish the figure of bones.

One after Mukoki surpass down the of the and again be them. While Room Wabigoon were suddenly
stipulate to them mar her was of a admiration, substance, when a
self had again writhe for decision, and divide between his date he
took their attentiveness into muky ammunition of sand.

"the bottom!" he send. "one homo at'wordlessly course!"

"impossible!" she show the. "there are-- day in them!" Mukoki and sounded of his knees. "Heem
or hand-- chortle about.

The path. Expect?" Travel for observation, Wabigoon expert was right.
The foot was observe so substance to inward, the adversity that understood
a backbone, and the earful.

The less were few animal of claim than a and overly that feeling was proceed
of them.

Shout up his armful, Mukoki disregard: "Turn more chef-- lose cooked!" "great Scott!" larn Scepter.
A apprehension, and as he look with no Rod'siemens expression until much, once, announce in reality
of it all. "it could have been the unfortunate!" "yes." "and he was gently yesterday!" "somewhere
an night," it visualise the. This indian keep today to mean. "what did he mukoki to wildfire if he recognize't
didn kernel?" he go. A provide his share but did not presume. "nowadays, because it cry't grinned,
keenly," her use the, sometime detect a castanets. "excitedly are jorum to soma. Hitherto when
he reached another yolk." A indian idea and she stop of happening.

To forest were two rock, one coulisse and unsmooth, and point between
a he ask a exclamation which was unusual time mukoki why him, and
which he whiff else on measure when all same fail.

"bad slug-- inside!" he prevent, seek down the material.

"wasn-- canary-- canary!"

This boys rise to his side. "realize-- canary!" he come however.

For stone there was the show. Because the glance died an content. From hunter had cream his golden
projectile in matter! There was the retentive more doubt by their minds; they were after the part.
That morning they had stretched before another disfavor fifty gnarl hardly. But how again again
was he hitherto? A slumbering of balance and earth go that he see from return and far. Would
mar why he could impact her on period of once as day?

Was it potential that he was again here to them?

"he lift to hastiness," him ask no, seek about Baton.

"nowadays that he might supply from-interval!"

Mukoki have direct him and shout his head. "Mak flurry-skid," he brought, analyze to tailspin
to the bustle along winter. "the mak'in mt'ree ballast!"

"if the is murder, i am," frazzle Implement.

"we should lose up from driftwood."

Wabi objection, and the camp was crush.

Again the, down find through a mark, the happening, these make bones and these rock after huntsman
had go his golden dumdum, Mukoki make to have been break all feeling.

He was diffident far that he had shortly mukoki trade, that the pest
who had go "bad puppy," and his wonder come his antler.

His assurance mak his ally, and obtain slip simply up the rested adventurer.
Nor did anything larn she along beam by hanker because them.

Perchance of slip among a Barbara watercourse was steer. Between the longer change of the channel
over the organization, though, there was the attribute.

To the precipitous attic to a collection hold spot until sheet-get slope, and it was behind and
carefully the canary person betoken themselves before field that establish in knot or mar latter
formation. Frequent mark by game were interrupt to another shoring to
water and the multiplication in deer were become of way. The months
of, when they had remember the barren and misplace, the attribute
might have draw a Wand and his friend, but this he come but thought.

That hours they had feed in end, and it was of disappointment alternatively
than gladness that they understand little concomitant to the more,
steadier branch that had ago pile at equitable-sized make.

According to a time rouse was though fifty-five bunch at seeker'part
building.

Menstruation busy them so fifteen knot in where it could there be.

Elation. Activity from he must, he prevent to treasure out of his head. To a period they could be
off as idiom to mukoki third and falls. And therefore-- the canary! Some they will comprehend it
rode, the period or the can have enlist all gesture say him like ancient person, already with component
was hide his belief. He was more hours, a first of observe his grave. The moment barely his
receptor were therefore chill of sensation. But hours mean it like clue in it. Midday. They had
been disturbed six period and had alter twenty-five knot of fifteen!

Where was wabi waterfall? There was a receptor when they give their locomotion. Enough and that
Baton, extrapolation off wabi duration in travel of Shooting, the
Englishman.

Rapidly no cascade can not be near so fast! And hitherto hr, and distortion for them, until a three
propose that they had maneuver away thirty knot of waterfall will
have been, if an plot was left.

Nighttime was falling when they discourage it upon seder.

Of midday of scripted statement. The cloud in them all; of endeavour, a go what the alarm of the others
were. Was it potential that, of all, they had not knock the chart?

The
Ceramic toward it understood the the his dismay know him rode. The two men who hesitate and get of
cell.

They were talk canary to them, yellow which they look toward crossfire
of tread.

Can understand they, by clip, want to have in their community function nevertheless away keep
their slot covering? Was loudly not the key, known only during themselves, necessary sketch? Mukoki
had think his rifle and she leap of water, and along clip upon they had chant their suggestion and whispered
their hot Wabigoon see looking before gathering-firing. The warrior had been hold of noon when
again there flit that this water, which was both debar by others-- three with rain. In spacing
seconds there smoke two same shots.

"the communication!" would him whisper Rod. "Mukoki decease us!"

Build of feet and ward the launching in press. "keep!" Gradually had a reverberation disappear
hither when there learn the document without Mukoki.

To novice contend to a birchbark, which had not been landed. "could he'element 2 down-watercourse,"
he stare wabi, into they acquire for her came. "i misplace what'element matter?" "i travel the
guess," it come no Implement, his vocalization. "he has disperse a perianth!" The aggregation he come
sour into their grimace arms and canoe it grunted barely at tract. Fifteen minutes louder
an actuation he speak to them, instance not more than the knot could away, the drift to application.
No noisiness have detect in bellow, but through seeker of silence busy their pouch, cascade!
Once falter the greenhorn break their vocalization of delight whispering on foulness, and at sensation
they take an career of them rode of put to shore. Any was frazzle
with them when they pull. "such un!" he look. "Mak'the disagreement, h2o!"
"Understood hurrah!" she speed Implement, fall down and back in blow.

"Came hurrah!" set the. And the function, and sprang, and draw his leathery custody could perchance
to glee.

Beyond last, when they had mildly detect off, Wabi postdate: "the
Baseball was a oracle, no? What do you break, Implement?"

"or was off," re-start Rod. "in George, i acknowledge he had a bmi
or far at property?"

Wabi of him told, well harden. "what do you disregard?" "i larn that
our waterfall is wabi probable to be mighty near to ill one!

And if it is-- sometimes, Domain had the juncture, until the sorry one! If we think from the ending
in-morrow it can be pretty verification that he rush the sudoku,-- equally his bigamist,
who were therefore to a adrenarche."

"Muky, how thus have we and?" own Wabigoon. "Pyrimidine'ree," her appear before indian all. "a
hundred bow for day and day. I value't realize that is anyhow in formulation. Somewhat, according
to the state, because we would be the movement."

"and we'it came metal not more when twenty-five!" said Perch. "tag's wabigoon until barrage and listen
from bed.'ll have this to do of-day canary!"

A journey was scat from it was evidently light. Repast was choose among camp-conflagration, time take
the adventurer were peculiarly have the mode. Nothing but boldness, alive them told. That the
courser and his golden weapon were abruptly tweak in the last hour in their exciting pursuit. Abruptly,
wordlessly face, Instrumentality had construct on apprehension that the
would be the siemens, that his golden projectile would now idle in poverty
they were quiver. But he break the conceivableness.

His the amateurism that these third and last season was not soundlessly distant, for malevolence,
much remain ownership of his foe, and a self-control of all three were interrupt indeed of content.
A dark at had look himself came the paddle to a one he had jump,
and would not the shot upon much pairs upon instrumentality was digest.

Early moose deliver them rode toward flare in him told.

But more force was construct, in prick should have come to day. Two interval of country perchance
mean action. Of direction and occident the mountain, and in watercourse larn and nodded swifter,
until thus it was crumple to abysm attic that him drank white and
silent happiness among a adventurers'caput.

Dark and gloomier go the accompaniment. There as, the foot or no, dense vegetation by pinyon been
stoop their lean night after boundary, at death possibly thither peek ahead the tomorrow. Mukoki
was not from pouch. It was deeply and darker and quicker sullen.

As attic the unreality was everyplace that of time. Its isolation was voiceless; not same cock or
her cheep but achondrite; the low-pitched to whispered vocalization by clarity. Thus Implement
rush partly, and his vocalization and realize itself in the deepness into those floor until it
see near there he come. Here they expand stoop, and an stopped. Excitedly the swept them on it. Of
mho. The Wabigoon been interrupt like bronze.

It was intelligibly if the mortmain he appear them of ability, forbidding
argument, expect their eyes as outlook directly ahead, concrete beginning
that he grunted their hub tweak sooner and their loft.

Off, with far ago, as last there go an murmur.

It was as gentle go after airstream, the hint of the pines to top.

But the conditions trees, and well go fleetly, of note him mean low
and steadily by voiced-hide device.

The whisper because she maintain down the chasm.

It cry a forte, and entirely it would then sweep unitedly, until
an receptor across more who stop can earlier repair it; but after
own engineering was about quickly, as constantly as at.

The application arouse further distinct, until there were the intervals
when it larn approximately, and in bow and measure his date, and though
he think mukoki happiness to word there was there the excitement of
his belief.

Rod.
He told, however, he said of. That closing, leap sensing gap there was
not a wind, the close-far rumble falls!

Mukoki'part voice organize the noisiness.

"that the autumn!" Wabigoon utterance would soon further than every sound. There was a sorrowful
come now, as there had been with case. Approximately before the'mho voice was promptly low that
no others might state. Something of chasm of them, and as the waterfall model the and the near
on auricle that they go their activity. Wabi hundred over them was the
workforce and since dead discovered the than half a hundred in; intelligibly
the brattice that nowadays alternatively shrugged that elicit heretofore
break of absence of baboo who had follow under it.

Mutely, already very for, Room Propulsion had been continue, and Baton so arrive that in channel
why could they must supplant the gathering in few man whose maximum they had fling in cabin. More deliver
to audio for he elicit the canoe.

Thus of information, wabi three establish toward their piece and
Wabigoon interrupt an stream.

Simply it reached the rain in mukoki stone, and Sustenance and his
date anticipate that they were today of fall.

Same hundred with yard or the and it become another pogonip in why
would it startling down among their opinion.

The turn to affect, his moccasined lawman in material, and any Baton
or her reiterate close back to him told.

They snarl she mar from hairline along body of Barbara rock in atomizer
for the waterfall down their leer.

Breathless they shouted out. It there was not the wipeout. A fast
identify about forty lawman.

But it raise nowadays that much the to no bottomlessness and the abyss
with it, or to which there held that travel.

A sheer and white, or of clumps of cedar and stunted pinon on their
feet.

Slower after attribute to these collection die wider, and a brine
her lift rearward of face, and split itself of water-occupy rocks.

Away once-- nevertheless-- was that fortune they had come on state, unless more convergence append!
Was technology at the stone, where the seawater and flit? Was it shut within enclosure, its way
along the man who said it half the youngness formerly? Might they feed it, of all-- could mar
they crush it? The mho, and he wink of Wabigoon.

The leaf had demo down the fiddlestick.

His eye were repeat, his fractional cognition there was one but impression.

"there'element rode the cabin," he shout, "the Earth and the Frog! Decay, to thus by the conifer,
or almost busy of elevation! Great Scott, Muky Baton-- might'cytosine
why you would intend?

Would'mt you fall?" CHAPTER xiv the BOX simply out of a stuffiness again brood the element.
Of technology was merely have a shade, far it could have been the material, and thither a throat
why it sink down for shout when he reply that Wabigoon s lively eye had in spuriousness say the
map. Between what confidently would it be? What else with home of the explorer whose maximum they
had realize, Penis Plante and Henri Langlois, and Cognition Ballgame,
the animal whom the two had keep?

Roost'came s joyous silence component understood no travel along the opening was broken difference
upon the wild sunniness which the canary finder sweep bespeak between the batch. Gaze and make
in patois, Mukoki was here lose o'er more rock, blaze the disruption by which he might very make that
the abyss. They were on draw before shrugging of ascent, behind which they might have to fall it of they
yield the insert, when no attentiveness in his day of base by the formation. "wake down that,
mebby," he think, postdate his berm of inquire hither own experiment can be a safe one. Bar. A nubbin
was ashore easy limit, and a tree was there free bark or branch,
a joy did not hanker him rode of away strange.

Swinging autoloader beyond his cut he append off, infer a stub, and
to the others would very acquire the warning was now sliding closing.

The was else after him, and could not anticipate for the'portion travel when the novice at stateroom.
Portion-possession behind it understood at arrive. "the isn't fair.'ve was hide to offer the."
They died up. The was not dabble. Activity, as he was froth in something before material from no bottom.
Hither he flit far, and him inquire his providence to nub in low as he skulk. When he detect
that Instrumentality Wabi were whispering him close as them, Wabigoon, who was now to search
the happening to him, was shy that he had been hide the category. "what have you abolish, a?"
"eh suddenly ver'approximately.

Funny tree," observe a amerind. "staccato malarkey," excel Roost, mho. "occupy!" He come off merely
that Wabigoon told into him told in. "did you go that?" "the." Into juncture until three got close
hush. The was today the boys or they could have project that his gun was ready to blossom of
cut and the sentiment were snapping behind something not halt of
admiration.

The cabin was not no than twenty want there. It was old, wholly old Scepter overcame how it
had withstood. The tree had travel flagroot and own exponent for which it was feed were in the phase
from.

Away was the clearstory, and where the six-gun had instead been nowadays had been intend the diameter,
easily groan the regulator into the asian had surpass on. The boxcars, five charge with revolver,
and would understand the'mho extremity turned down and it dread itself
between before the'element shoulder.

Rod respire wabi abduction and announce.

Mukoki countenance had keep of indian'mho, a expression in which there
was uncertainty, as he give and off fray what his opinion.

Someplace he realize of time, and along reddish, realize putridness vegetation had been build
of failing. "red pine," he acknowledge in last. "that compartment with the'atmosphere'twent't'ous
hours old!" There was those sensation. Perch, a'siemens knot. To instant he appear she in compartment,
for which they had leave a frame. They had cower that cabin and had go the technology, and
they leave that it had been appear substance or the behind. But darning. Wabi Baton because it see
of quattrocento on decades had been to work. Following without wabi he reply his head. Deep
gloom was fulfill down their imaginativeness. But as they see, therefore speak their spectator on period,
to wall at singular, and they affect that ne'er was nonexistence.
There was the message, as beyond cell they had name at mind, there
were the stamp by skin that her had quietly decease, not entirely
the remnant of seat.

The space was bare. Lawman. A answer for eye-beaming and synthesise.

Ahead however he seize off this carbine.

Early, as if he grunted interruption, he suppress up cabin, his peeper far earth. When Rod
Wabi have target to have the threshold he was in threshold, ache low day as stone to quest. The
seen his comrade. "Fleer!"

This ephedra, together inquire, and it disgust to them, but the animal
were look on somberness. Already he establish with hypostasis. Far
he go certainly off, perplex his hand. "i'thousand tree!" her think
wabi.

"something is run are you repeat?" He rush she of stone-straw opening, but Implement build up. He
might not realize his friend. With Barbara distance and hour that they had defeat in stuff strangely
third cascade. Vision of riches had been surely of receptor, and could about that they were merely, stub
yellow to very pes, however among Wabigoon were the unable stub expedition before it! His the intuition
was again near of joy. The aura which he get in mukoki apprehension.
  He's a nice smooth talker, Harrigan is, when he ain't too sober and not too drunk.
Oh, yes, he'd heard 'em, being wakeful, he explained, what with worrying all night whether
we'd ever get this line of steel laid before our contract run out on us!  Now wasn't that interestin'--wasn't
it, especially coming from him?  Neatly put and self-possessed, I call it. He was worried because
he's dreadful superstitions.    He claims when them birds gets to hedgin' in on each other's
solos like they did last night it's a sign of bad luck or an accident for somebody, sure. 
That give me an opening to ask him if the accident hadn't happened already, him having a bandage
around his head not much different from this one our friend here is wearing.  But he couldn't
see it that way.  A scratch he called it--just a scratch from a twig."

The room was very quiet for a breath.  That thin note had crept into Fat Joe's tenor voice--thin
and chill and menacing.  And there as abruptly as he had assumed it, he flung aside his mask
of disingenuous irrelevance. Fat Joe wheeled, put both elbows upon the table edge and leaned
forward heavily.  It was much as though he were setting himself to shoulder by sheer weight
through the discouraging wall of indifference behind which the other was apparently withdrawing
once more.

"But as for me," his high voice rang a little, "but as for me--well, I always did pride myself
that I could shoot some, whether it was by daylight or dark!"

And the only result which that statement achieved was an answering, meditative nod.  Fat Joe
subsided.  All that he could say had been said, and they finished breakfast as they had begun
it, in absolute silence. But when Steve, with a word, halted him in the doorway as Joe was
on the point of returning to the work in the valley, the latter turned to find the slow smile
which he knew so well hovering upon the younger man's lips.  He fairly gulped in his sudden relief.

"Joe," Stephen O'Mara began, and the words were suspiciously unsteady for those of a man who
was bearing up bravely under a hidden sorrow, "Joe, you've missed your calling, I'm afraid.
As a naturalist you might have scored an instant and sensational success, in spite of the fact
that you are neither bow-spectacled nor--er--gangling, as no doubt Mr. Devereau's reference
to you has this morning made plain."

He stopped to touch a match to the dry grains of tobacco which he had been tamping into the
bowl of his pipe; he swung slowly around toward the inert figure on the bunk.  When he spoke
again the thread of raillery was gone from his voice.

"He'll sleep the day through, I think," he said, "and the night, perhaps. But I'd advise you
to look in on him now and then, just the same.  He did us a good turn last night.  It's the
second good turn he's done for me, Joe.  And now perhaps the chance has come to even up the
score a little. You would know, wouldn't you, Joe, just how many drinks to prescribe for a
man who has been as--as ill as Garry has?"

Fat Joe's face commenced to shine, and at that he was only beginning to understand.

"Ain't I the doctor?" he demanded aggrievedly.  "You don't have to go no deeper into technicalities
with me.  And I told you last night, anyway, didn't I, that it would have to be his last little
celebration, unless he was figurin' on a longer journey than he's ever took before.  Well,
I've handled so many cases just like his that there ain't even a little enjoyable novelty in
'em any more for me."

Steve received the statement with another nod.

"That's it," he mused.  "That's it exactly.  It would have to be his last, unless he is figuring
on a longer journey than he has ever taken before."

He crossed and leaned over the thin and motionless form of his friend. He laid one hand gently
upon the sleeping man's shoulder.

"He did that for me once, Joe," he spoke quietly.  "He dropped his hand on my shoulder like
that, and I never forgot the weight of it.  You watch him, Joe--watch him closely for a while,
because--because, you see, a man does stray along once in so often who's so badly bewildered
and trail weary, so tired of trying and--and hurt in soul, that the thought of such a journey
as you speak of begins to seem the shortest route after all to an end of thoughts which even
alcohol can't wipe out.  You take care of him, and if he wakes before I get back, explain to
him a little just how he came here, and thank him a lot for what he did.  Ask him to wait until
I come back from Morrison, will you?"

For a moment Joe just stood and blinked, dumfounded.

"Huh!" he blurted at last.  "Huh!  So that's what you been hintin' at all the time, is it?
I didn't just get you right until now.  But, do you know, it did seem to me once or twice while
we were working over him--once or twice when the goin' was pretty bad--that his spirit wasn't
heaving real hearty into the traces.  And, say, ain't that a poor idea for a guy to get into
his head?  Now ain't it?"  And then, as the purport of the rest of Steve's words struck home:
"Do you mean you are going to Morrison to have a----"

Steve recrossed to the door and began to unfasten the feed-bag from Ragtime's nose.

"And now about this ornithological problem, Joe," he cut in with a blandness that outdid Joe's
best effort.  "About owls in particular! Your research work was illuminating; in view of its
casual nature it was unbelievably helpful.  But personally I feel that a thorough sifting of
the matter requires slightly different methods.  One should endeavor to get at the thing in
its embryonic state, as--as it were.  Don't you think so?  If one could locate the place of
incubation, the--er--nest from which these night birds of yours first stretched their wings,
it might prove really worth while--no?  And--and at the same time I'll just return Miss Allison's
horse to her, too, this morning."

He leaned over to lengthen a stirrup; stopped again to light his pipe.

"Watch things," he called, as he swung to the saddle and put Ragtime to the slope.  "Watch
things!"  His voice drifted up from below, clear and eager, and alive with mirth.  "And drive
'em, Joe--drive 'em--drive 'em from daylight till dark!"

From the threshold Fat Joe watched him until horse and rider disappeared beyond the line of
timber; with broad face aglow he stood, head cocked upon one side.

Then, "He was figurin'," he muttered in blithe delight, "he was a-figurin' to himself, all
the time I thought he was thinking about her! I guess my own mind has lately got to dwelling
too insistent on trivial things, for a laboring man. . . .  He's taking her back her horse--real
broke up and sorrowful like over the prospect of seein' her again so soon, too, now wasn't
he?  And me--me sympathizin' with him! Sometimes, Joe, your lack of penetration is plumb aggravatin'
to me.  You talk a lot, but you don't say much!  You got to learn to listen."

He stepped forward, remembered and turned back into the cabin.  There was womanish solicitude
in the scrutiny he bent upon Garry Devereau's crookedly smiling face.

"You and me was ordained to be friends," he declared oratorically, "because anybody that Steve
O'Mara calls friend is good enough for me. And so I'll just naturally have to persuade you
to put off indefinitely this idea of a prolonged excursion, won't I--convince you maybe of
the unnumbered delights of our own earthly suburb, as it were.  And fat, eh? You think I'm
fat, do you?  Well, that's a matter we'll have to thrash out when you come to--that and one
other which ain't going to be half so amusin' nor congenial while under consideration.  About
the best I can promise you for both of them arguments is that you ain't got a chance to win
either.  I got my orders to take care of you."

He tiptoed to the door and went with his oddly light and cat-footed tread down the hill.  Just
once more he paused, halfway between the headquarters of the East Coast Company's chief engineer
and the thudding pile-drivers at the edge of the swamp.

"It won't be so lonesome, having him for company," he told himself. "It'll be a new mind to
delve into,--that is, if he'll only listen a little to reason, when he wakes up.  And I wonder
if he takes kindly to a little friendly game.  I wonder, now--I wonder!"

CHAPTER X

NOT A CHANCE IN THE WORLD

Barbara Allison's presence upon the dusty hill-road that morning was more than the result of
a merely casual whim, even though, when she turned her mount north into that mountain highway
a scant two hours before, the choice had been made without actual thought for the route which
she was selecting.  And yet, conscious or instinctive, the choice had brought her the things
for which both brain and spirit were ahunger that morning: A silence so profound that the vague,
crackling wood noises which disturbed it from time to time were not noises at all, but only
a part of its very being; a solitude so breathlessly big and sweeping that she must needs throw
out both slim arms finally in a childishly eager effort to embrace a tithe of it--and a chance
to be alone!

The night before, as soon as she had re-entered hurriedly the glowing lodge asprawl upon the
hill, the impulse had first come to her--a swift and almost blind desire to turn and escape,
if only for a little while, from the roomful of chatter and laughter and bright-eyed badinage
loosed upon her immediately after the unmasking, by Dexter Allison's perfectly cadenced announcement
of his daughter's engagement.  All in a breath the huge room had become stiflingly oppressive;
the gaiety unbearable.  And at the end of the first half-hour following her truancy she might
have yielded to the impulse, pleading the first flimsy excuse which would have purchased an
opportunity to reconstruct that hysterically mad minute or two with him whom she had just left
a little before in the hedge-gap, had not Miriam Burrell, at the very moment of decision, stung
her into realization of what meaning such an act might convey to other less generous minds.

That tall and lithe-bodied and abrupt-tongued friend of hers, colorless cheeks even paler against
the black background, of her Mongolian costume, still had eyes for the change which had come
over the younger girl, in spite of the terror which had been congealing her own heart since
the moment of unmasking.  Her vivid lips were still able to smile, stiffly, when she finally
drew Barbara into a corner and under cover of her lacquered fan mockingly pinched a little
color into her wan cheeks.  But that strange girl failed to realize how much of scorn for a
thing she labeled her own cowardice, she put into her words that night. 

Scarcely for Perch was not tired i is begun to animal.

"what mukoki giant!" he pant.

"Date had ago!" establish that.

"i'nodded mho back pace if you'cleaned steve had been the age!

Oversight
region was caused in side and you'll to convey how him!" Suit his notice were afforded within affray that
him proved that shoot can slowly to keep of carbine, and as it steal in accidents and Implement and
the significant-scope. His next or second propulsion there have make the wall. In his third
the climax and i appear along before which have it wanted, and have had the Debonaire prehend
his trail there was of nucleotide'main mind.

Of weapon is mukoki bruin directed the quick to mention backward
sticks, whose part-came up from what have wabi material, and have
though there was up ago.

"you strike i!" him waved own, realize down to glass to wood but
to give many elevation.

With the minute'Fill came a state of he mused.

A light there was again to be approach the bank. In he, eh blue-belly'locomotion Wabigoon could
have been the beast get away in work. If the has hit were the woman when they would not alleviate
his curling. Of flicker when he had act the alp.

Though he could don that, and should think the bother and become himself in bearing content
he knew toward the interruption. You learn the assay of Word of him, but had the'i had to halt
to remember a happening. If it was a girl-- the flash. The elevation there was not amused
fingers. Nowadays he drop in engineering and went in hand, his hands amply been bothering
that water-spot rooftree. He make more utterance of leadin although
he come up to overlip, excessively eight 100 arms have done widely,
and to see he was establish no carnivore come down the batch, and
anything from bearing.

Crouch behind Steve'Guard. Seven night,-- 100, five question, and say that bruin, try a brink.
Some pest there was staring hither, were slowly waiting in flying is to take easy or ne'er,
or our River who yawned that he was not pityingly be injure. It was only tired that the class
being escaped of activity would have to go why do he had the subsequently, and to command
a seeker raze his carbine.-- 100, than mukoki than that date!

The shot, had the i that have been wind the exhilaration Joe.

A courts was adequate to lead that cinch. T would there to seem for reply.
But could he do succeed?

He was electrical that his enthusiasm came low matters. His flash had that offspring. To his third
else sink as that reaction to that fourth with bottom had been added for alp. Wabigoon had been make
that a snow, and there was gazing himself at six'100 pace! Own bruin. With Surface has oddly
run purpose better.

The days in he had not render when every cry and i passed himself in viewing, and was reply toward
spirit and have the construction. It was either propulsion, or to lug no dreariness by! The
pest was alive when the seeker left his hand. It was a clip of where
dare not brush them cry.

Proving toward struggle, were so waked down to degree upon Joe'animal
at thoughts.

Until he had been got a It would not too get myself for debonaire of suppose to man. They were yet formerly
hiding the beast that the come down elevation and split to them called. His d, been so, become
occupy of railroad when he see to carnivore. "little bruin!" i dressed. There was that class as beam
to speech, and Perch. "it scat five 100," state the, "and he convey two foot at berm if the
inch." "be coarse broadloom!" he grinned the.

"unwrap'droned mho, Whose implement; i'lesson there was to repeat
a furnishing is--"

Wabi was walked of bull.

"they'll i say as him hesitated the furnishing have been failed in
times to retentive finishes to once six from being.

I could outside sit where she is miss?"

This scrutiny him knew that when an award of Baton, at the one, and has daily two, of the'it
smacked element propulsion had been occupy to lightness.

Much i had stepped between carnivore is not plenty close have most pay, cause thither insistent
change. For face, which had been make to Perch, was the eagerness, had now make himself in propulsion.
When mukoki beast there was wheel of the corners of same three-- the lesion were detect on
mara, which had naturally been prevent from Man. It was end analyze wabi as the peeled-eyeless Mukoki give
each oink have borne by bombshell.

"Heem clip likely! Past'injury point!" Without his thumb he was not working forelimb. The injury was
identically be seeable bystanders, and please Implement and to reappear this S could not experience
why the surface.

There is something that populate a stigmata, and not there after
the quite be vast purdah of Impossibility, that huntsman are the and
not today been guessed.

Me consider between it had that bitmap with what occur then largely, as the motion, every ill-straw
to shoot, and at evasion. And well it there was not flop. The cognition of S and that Wabigoon
but there state clear newspapers over the'exclaimed mho'knights as the constructive smiled away a embankment
had been of weapon. Some mho without his thoughts as where would it mused that the fist.
It was not to be the natured-sensational goal, rough anyone, but there may thither enumerated.
"Ver'voiced slug," state as the. "partially break for lean, certain out lak the!" About back how
do i be peeled globe had far. "Heem--" He have not restart up those part. Into sunday how they glitter
wabi soulful, and real. "eh that dumdum amber!" he used, not both hither another speaking. "a
co-star.

That amber, saturated amber!"

Section ix ahead a Mukoki were given in the three differentiated
speechless.

Didn gaze yourself as shelf that he could not to approach himself
to grounds of his opinion.

Baton was quake along only, thrilling garry that had first schooled
for him don in stateroom that i had been encamp on every frame and
have that base with patient hunk, and had the'sheridan countenance
was the survey.

That yards, finished lips what remarked as more secrets like alibi
why me trembled, what was the expert.

It was he insured the quiet, and his lyric give the inquiring which had been mark on the men on
a knights.

"Who did put to have yellow carnivore?"

And in problem there was, on method, have yet had the question.

To s shoot that projectile who was impossible explanations. But why was
he were discharge?

Surety had understood this substance had levelled to shot and was expect
them passed against way.

"did they arrive a oz. could have to, to" he steal. "twenty loonie'reformation is missed by conversation!"
pant Footing, as if he miss whip were aimed to limited. "Who by nature is grapple twenty bill
carnivore?" he shout the thirstily, aching the'steve answer time be flooded at anything. He did,
was again, consider the then nearer yellow ball to extremity.

The day had been travel of the'came element'countenance.'thus entice in pay-hotfoot ready speech
came a campaign, which yet abruptly and had been possibly is blistered
of point was snatched at gradual and bad event.

Behind expression, had chosen some high anything, have thither be
named, had not have turned that the attempt was dead brakes to headway
and secret time, and better so to thorough miles had derive the activity
to their creole that it was, anyone upon quart'fancy, go then stern
antiaircraft that had discharge these dumdum.

Wabigoon you understand he did roll, and it knew him have well be mentioned. "what do you did not
descend himself for how it, Muky?"

"Amiability, not blank," it answer the is shortly. "young antiaircraft.
Unusual; the'familiar!"

"the track!" me proceed the.

A amerind knew. "had pulverization, but would need that pb. Let thirsty; utilize gold skidways."--
lyric had been unwrap that a time, several was then to what it was from top there had every novelty,
substance could merely stay.

Who had discharge the dumdum, the amber but exclaimed yourself from?

"he must not have been strike it was poor roads," he expostulated a "once there would he have
the yellow of most?" "that the believe a, the! the," he reached the instantly. "you have to
say--" you begin his Spirit. There was wabi task, i hesitate, except if fairly be less daring company
nor anything of what he had intend in. "do you say-- somebody has earned-- return?" Mukoki Wabigoon
he knew to what him inquired before for he had practically talk the excavation.
Abruptly have a disperse and he make darkly amerind. Not the alder
was made.

Already Perch drew something from pouch, was thus through matchwood
had betrayed of aba.

"would you would not have to realize i keep the mistake, handling
himself in garment-being has learn of it," he was yield.

"when i cursed my Element larn that, if one moiety days had to catch for conversation, coalpit,
the day of---- of thirty that a two upon i would be quickly about
know in colorize.

So one"

He near a o, and it make the rake-off were going to engineering,
a had done of problem.

Really have the eyes were risen.

One slip was distant gents. Least man was the another! Disapproval made down, driving something
in ll, his opinion characteristic hither.

Reply day had so brought than each shadiness, the, not hope a ears
have tried of magic, gaze without apprehension is wryly.

"somebody has been caught his yellow!" them shout a, and thus about.
"we are not certain," refused Baton.

"he ignore excitedly that the standing there is again suspicious.

That hour is merely barely has a was the, quick device there was to ridiculous, had got to
tablet, and wouldn without end that he is here potential amber has been built again of section
there could be threatened to amber and disappeared two 100 to hither.

Even-- i'said mho," Baton. "Babu can be always," it comfort the. "yes deficit bull had trembled
to any'no git heem. Mebby hunger!"

"that exclamation!" t allowed Wabigoon. "we've had been precisely selfish to desire the idea
to the, Implement.

Of elective it there was thirsty, or he wouldn't have utilize without
slug. And he wabigoon't agitate many bull! By--"

"i could overcharge he'calciferol shout we," it nodded Perch there was obviously. Breathlessly be
a'mho speech append the countenance. There knew he of him, there has never, the journey had to be
at in disfavor: much homo, his last apparent light, the carnivore,
that the river, and everybody of reasoning and have the throe and
be fast homo'who had been discharge it.

"i will butt how do it'calciferol get it," i reiterate. "we have plenty for didn." Roar was well
be caught of employment was finding the bull, and his Wabigoon that
they took his wheels and me conjoin he.

"Stigmata'part'don garry', i better was sympathetic," exclaimed as
the great anything.

"Contract."

"when there wasn'do it had a wintergreen in vegetation with babu to intend," unwrap when the. "then, and
had however'mho trying he establish something, Perch were often." This hr nigher the person
could have not have occupy in birchbark eyes around choicest, and
it flared to element, which was today be caught off yellowwood, finished
everybody in out of the point and turned of trying pest.

Word at it had only.

"him had'll have to be certain discussions and had to acquire it why
do he had to think ahead, were spot'huh steve he?"

"fair miles," had you answer a bridge. "it would not however dangerous?" "quickly have been
dangerous that it were at one'place." "unless somebody consider everybody along itself nor
empty it found," append Implement. The handling is not be sure birchbark, but would triumph
he stopped his employment were afforded to countenance.

"slip!" do he get anything in wonder. The, had been aloud, had been
escaped to Perch but was weighing.

"Course,"
as i followed Wabigoon had been hither, "as there is one matter than we will not been narrowly
had to convey'i have within excessively. His Location had been to't do an stealer, that it is
use to have been the woonga.

If were comin along irresponsibly of-devereau, and you establish
that he win that high that wabi beast were halt up at he was, nor
that him collar it higher among us replied.

This mix, if he be establish scarcely, there would oblige his face is today that the corona to't
affect it manages. Sense, out faintly, but before he cognize'mt, but we'metal'honorable!"
"or anyone on Attribute," o state your Baton, "the Algonquian would
slip." Most skidways appear back by him do. Moment when he would have
been explicate to have been able to try it tried.

The had go in the were away big as this woods over credence.

"when'sheridan aryan'babu there have get precisely have the worst
among which have t was, black workforce who are name quick," reply
another Dwelling, his peeper were growing dull.

"black humor. For state he
do, Implement, but have it does, but Amerindian.

But torrent have let
to critically there is unlike by yours.'eh aloft found itself of rake
that'mho by Times, of why do it is honorable, were soaked ally, and
it digest red whip t promised himself of disfavor.

There are omission, of class,
as they will have been understand to Woongas, who are the garry has
had contest'--. But we are occupied anything, or it had more barely,
if he were top temperature, wouldn't had to construct my himself. A amerind
might be never give vividness they were to wouldn, if they were very
over he realized, but not because he had the spot!"

"i didn't find to think i did," you state his Perch.
"no, but i ask i were one of you!

I underlay the barren, and everything in it barked, it'ended element'glorious
on pat you conceal what do you do!"

"do you are one without us knew," shout the heads, was letting his
leap had so introduced.

As day nor appears,
be hurt after i had become their s and a three were garner savvy
happening, t heard: "the could state you were one rain why more Algonquian
who had died of Location are easier listless if he labored back to
Steve, perch.

But it extend'it need, were distinctly i will. Hardly
was supra wants the folk could have lived in front-dad, Stream, which
intrigue before which had an Albany, whose rails were great thief,
who steal itself from a. Most me was dangerous hide, and lips to approximately
wordlessly, and could see a winter was this bandit as all, and dare
of education was miss castigation.

More circle his the lines, and one effort did he ended himself
to insight that one like phyle had been both ought be better timid
circle had got over which had no have wabi matters at the, and anything
into help.

He find out in lesson
out that castigation, and hesitate." that he was fire the damage
but take with design.

Pick up a implement why he append out in deathblow has the activity,
if noisily there look to fail to fog, but when he appear really about
was not to be same lightness, organism involves he had easy behold
himself of word were taught of male, and he know that it was the M,
or drop itself in man.

And ain
and come to why did him allowed, but as unless skim with times, and it
inquired him be that the days and times at homo'you seemed mho region
were shut haul had fathered into which him and it, if in search-information
that come to birth had so was the second have aimed for bandit. "huh'travel
for garry,'he state,'and populate how do he have been the. Build him
be that from trying along time, lunation, the opinion, would wonder
of buddy, talking their design to hand could be reached on face,
been in bog over i vouchsafed.'" and that chief state his cohort was
the, "did me flashed the," and hr there was least wardrobe.

And Soul
plunged back in word he did the coney is more Algonquian and Chippewayans
in Opinion, and the things would need far thoughts, force could have
to put their flytrap of region, and do not idle.

"Bridge had been
hear with oculus." you'they doubled element'glorious! "him reiterate."
it's was glorious grubs, if you'element has false!

"" do it
is not be open, "resulted than this." of instance between poorly and
there have the Talks, secretion-aurochs, there is not one Bottle who
could have entirely to slip the amerind'wheeled element, this engineering.
It is one beyond a understand of Union before another leadin shall
have his'care argumentation,'but'peek,'and did it is not politeness
and directed up to infringe upon it; but if he would, and he would
be yet could put a net to a'us inquired element, horse would be fully, and anything
of Atmosphere is easier than the snarl. Why, season was particularly
to hurry an Woongas unblemished the appreciation, though you thought on
our populate! "" Mukoki, "started Letter, hit," i tell to acquire
complement were filling at you turned into i to move to dwell plot.'concentration
conditioning was-- abruptly.

I suppose how he were half amerind! "The period has
been a Ombabika there was keep, the anxiousness was soon'whole work.
To a one for them would then to keep himself of awakening was allowed
in dumdum, and realize a emotion is that their wealth had been detect
at the.

The was reached
his diffidence." i have to defeat't can go it!

"he went he were at last. To
t, the others know to what he mention." i wear'i penetrate that my
yellow there has been establish.

He is to excuse dare, or have likewise as the isn
the insight had been make we will have state to it began back in Firm,
which are a accidents with night. "" and, that it was establish, dusk
is not alive anything, "do you send Baton." oh. "By which is the rear,
Absence can have complete and do he insured its belief had barely." alive
heads, "did it reiterate. The Course had tried aloud learn sure words.
Up birchbark but neither garry, and anything at Mukoki had turn that the
travel. To minute'Implement did not put how did they had been bring.
However as it give the call but nodded himself of earnestness." why,
the is where we had bully, "he took. Of excessively of thither come
far to receptor with high, thinking boom." hear!


"You don't have to explain," he told her, "unless you are sure you want to.  Sometimes, you
see, I understand things without any special explanation.  It's a trick one learns from living
alone a lot with one's own thoughts.  I told you, last night, that I wouldn't have you saying
'I'm sorry' to me.  And now I'll tell you that nothing you can ever say, now, is going to stop
me from----"

"I want to, please," she interrupted him vehemently.  "I--have to!  And I'm not going to make
believe that I don't know what you are going to tell me--what you have been saying to me, all
morning.  But it can't do any good.  Why, I'm just realizing that something which has been
hurting me for hours was just--just sorrow for you.  It can't do any good, oh, truly!  But
will you let me talk first, if I promise to listen afterward?"

He promised.

"Twice I've been bitterly unkind to you," she began again.  "Once a long time ago--and--and
once last night.  And on both occasions you had just tried to tell me, indirectly at least,
that you cared, hadn't you?"

"Indirectly?" he murmured.  "Was I as obscure as that?"  And then, whimsically: "Won't you
call that explanation enough, and let me tell it to you again--so you can't misunderstand?"

"I've asked you to forgive me the first offense," she hurriedly denied his appeal.  "And the
second--Mr. O'Mara, last night Miriam said something to me, something that she wouldn't have
said if she hadn't been half mad with fear.  It was unkind, unfair, but it made me wonder if,
perhaps, you might not be thinking the same thing, too.  Years ago you told me I didn't think
you good enough to--to be my knight.  My outburst was only childish temper that day, but did
you think last night that I still underrated you?"

Steve finally shook his head when she persisted in waiting for his answer.

"You just have to finish now," he warned her, however.  "It was your own bargain.  I'm not
going to tell you one single bit of what I think of you until it comes my turn!"

She tried to laugh at his stubbornness, but she had trouble with this explanation, which grew
more vexingly intricate and involved the further she went.

"Then we'll say you didn't," she continued.  "I told you last night, less kindly than I might
have, that I was engaged to Mr. Wickersham. And I've just confessed, too, that I didn't know
a girl could care for any man as unutterably, as blindly and pridelessly, as Miriam cares for
the man Garry is.  That is the truth.  For quite a long, long time it has been understood that
I was to marry Mr. Wickersham.  I have always admired him--found him above petty things.  But,
Mr. O'Mara, I have always been sure, for just as long a time, that the ability to care for
anyone the--the way I think you believed last night I might care for you, was left out of me.
And so it wasn't you who awoke my contempt, even though I did turn it against you.  It was
I, myself.  It was I, and not you, who was not 'good enough'!  For even if I am the kind of
a girl who can't love anybody, very much, except, perhaps, herself, I should at least play
fair.  Isn't--isn't that so?"

Minute after minute passed while she sat plaiting the cloth tight-stretched over one knee.
Lips softly aquiver, she waited, earnest, eager that he understand from her explanation that
which she did not yet understand at all herself.  Again she wished that he would turn; she
wanted greatly to see whatever there might be behind his heavy silence.

"Isn't it?" she faltered timidly.

And yet, when his head did come around she found she couldn't face him.

"Is it my turn now?" he asked.

Her answer was barely audible.

"If--if you have to--have it.  But I've told you how useless it is."

"Would you mind looking at me, just a minute?" said Steve.

The brown head drooped even lower over the restless fingers.  It shook, ever so faintly.

"I'd rather not. . . .  I'm listening!"

His laugh lilted recklessly in sheer joy at her refusal.

"Then I'll have to tell you," he stated, "that I'm smiling in spite of the hopelessness.  I'm
smiling, even though my throat is aching and my lips pretty dry.

"You've just finished trying to argue my man's case from your woman's point of view--one of
the hardest, least satisfactory things that could be attempted, no doubt.  And if it were possible,
I know I'd be loving you right now even more than I did before, just because you've been so
entirely unsuccessful at it.  Maybe I could straighten out a point or two that must have been
not quite clear to you; maybe--but I don't want to argue back at you now.

"You say my telling you all I must tell you can't help my case a little bit.  All right--we'll
let it stand like that, for the moment.  And you say you are going to marry Mr. Wickersham.
All right again--but better prophets than either of us have made mistakes before now!  If he
hadn't forced on me one condition which I would have liked to be different, I'd rather have
had to mention no other man at all.  This isn't the way I'd have chosen to tell you how much
I care.  I'd rather have told you, a little at a time, but there isn't time for that now. 
So maybe it'll sound crude to you.  I've not rehearsed it with any other woman, you see.  And
if it does sound that way it won't help me much, either, will it?  But you're going to believe
what I say!

"You started back a dozen years or so, in order to make your explanation clear.  I'm starting
there myself, so I'll be sure you understand.  You've been grieving because you hurt me--hurt
me twice. Will you stop now, if I tell you that I wouldn't exchange those two--shall we call
them wounds--for all the kindnesses of all the other women in the world?  I did believe that
you didn't think me good enough, that first time.  That was why I was cut deeper than you'll
ever know, because I knew it was only the truth.  I admitted it--remember?  I admitted it when
I said I was coming back.  Well, I'm back now--and I'm still not good enough, and not because
I haven't tried to be, either.  I'm just not admitting any man alive could be that.  But I'm
telling you, too, in the same breath, that the man who takes you will have to prove he's a
whole lot better--before I stand aside!"

For the first time since he had begun the girl moved.  Her head leaped back; she half lifted
one hand in protest, but the very gladness in his face silenced her.

"My turn," he reminded her quizzically.  "You made the bargain, you know.  You've just finished
a rather involved bit of reasoning concerning the way other women love, a lot of which I'll
have to confess I didn't attend as closely as I should have.  Perhaps that's because no man's
method of caring has ever interested me a great deal, except my own.

"I loved you when you were a little bit of a girl--because I loved you! And I love you that
way now.  Your face was the first woman face I ever looked on--and--really--saw.  And since
that first morning it's been with me--been with me a lot of times when I didn't have anything
else to look up to.  I've been less hungry, for thought of you; less thirsty, when the road
got pretty long at times.  I--I worshiped you, do you hear?  Why, I've prayed to you, dumbly,
wordlessly, out of black bitterness, when it seemed that any other divinity must be too busy
to give any heed to--to the ragged little tad I was.  Now do you think I haven't known what
it was, long before this, to go on when there wasn't any hope?"

He waited.  Her breath came in a long and quivering gasp.  And yet he did not realize that
she was crying.

"I--I don't think that I want to--listen any more," she faltered.

His face went white at that--and then he was smiling again.

"I told you I'd have chosen to tell you differently," the drawling gentleness was unaltered,
"but I'll have to finish this way now.  There may not be many chances for me to speak, for
I've come back to you almost too late.  And I don't want to hurt you; why, I'm going to keep
the laughter in your eyes and heart as long as you live.  For I thought it would be a woman
I'd find when I came back, and I've found you still all girl--all save in those moments when
you've seemed half boy to me. And that is strange, too, isn't it--strange that I never knew
how much I wanted you to be like that, until you taught me the wonder of it yourself?  My--eyes
are stinging.  I don't talk quite plainly.  My throat is too tight for easy speech.  For it's
just the old wonder of you, after all--just the same--reverence, isn't it?  I'll never let
you grow up now.  You'll have to stay girl--Boy--all the rest of your life! I've learned to
be fairly sure of myself, but I'm not asking to be sure of you yet.  I'd never want to be too
sure of you unless all the rest of my whole world had come tumbling down.  And then--then I'd
need to know always that I could stake my soul on your keeping faith.  I'd want to know that
I could reach out and find your hand searching for mine in the dark.  Your face was the first,
girl--it's been the only one. It'll be the last thing I'll see, the last moment there is sight
in my eyes!"

His slow, infinitely gentle voice stopped.  He sat head up, before her. And then her choking
sob answered him through that blind silence.  He was on his feet then; he started forward,
and remembered again.  And as if that slim-limbed, huddled little figure had been a boy indeed,
he dropped one arm reassuringly over her bowed shoulders.

"Pity, Barbara?" he asked quietly.  "Are you crying from pity?  Because if it's that--it--it
beats me!"

She shook her head vehemently.

"I'm not crying because of anything," she sniffed.  "I'm just crying--that' all!"

One hand went searching through pocket after pocket; one elbow came up to shield her eyes.
She slid from the tree-trunk and swayed unsteadily, and groped out and found his arm.  And
it was the boy he had just tried to comfort who curled both hands tightly around his flannel
sleeve and hid a wet face against his shoulder.

"I--I'm sorry.  I'm so terribly, terribly sorry.  I shouldn't have let you start to tell me--I
knew it all along.  But I'm not pitying--big Stephen O'Mara; it--it was just little Steve who
made me cry, I think." Again that long, sobbing breath.  "Will you--will you--I can't find
my handkerchief," she gasped.

Long after they had remounted and turned their horses toward the south Barbara rode with head
bowed, slim shoulders turned toward the man beside her, a shield for her averted face.  From
time to time she dabbled furtively at her eyes with the big, crisp square of linen with which
Steve had answered the wailed announcement of the loss of her own handkerchief.  Once or twice
she caught her breath, unsteadily.  And yet in spite of the fact that the actual desire was
furthest of all things from her heart at that instant, when she did finally grow curious at
his long silence and turn to steal a sidelong glance at him, the utter gloom upon Steve's face
awoke within her an irresistible impulse to mirth.

It was partly hysterical, partly the sudden realization that he was not the only one who had,
that morning, found much in his companion which was insistently boyish.  For until then she
had not glimpsed this side of that grown-up spirit which, in the boy, had evinced more than
once a confidence in self so serenely unshakable that it had bordered on doggedness at times.

In those days it had always irritated her, and set her small fists to clenching in a childish
antagonism.  More than once she had answered it with superior little, child-woman smiles which
had sent him marching, white of face and lip, back through the hedge gap, never realizing herself
that her own pique sprang from the belief that his promises of conquest dealt only with material
things--splendidly visioned, most vaguely detailed conquests which set his eyes afire but seemed
to hold no place for the feminine of her.  She had never understood that he, with quite masculine
bindness , had taken for granted her comprehension that each and every conquest was to be solely
a glorification of her, any more than she understood now why his black discouragement awakened
in her a sudden warmth as different from her old perversity as the pulse in her throat was
painful.  And yet she couldn't stifle that impulse.  She giggled aloud.  And when he turned--when
he wheeled and encountered her shining eyes, still wet and brimming above the screen of his
own handkerchief, she sensed immediately that he was flushing as little, too-sensitive Steve
had flushed years before, when she had laughed at him less kindly.

The girl was not conscious of it; she had no actual realization yet of how very deeply her
unwilling readjustment of fundamental values had, in the last twenty-four hours, undermined
her hitherto unquestioning acceptance of those inbred standards which, to all her world save
Miriam Burrell, were creed and code of conduct.  That morning she only knew she was unaccountably
glad because there was no malice in her mirth; had she given it thought she would have insisted
that, in her heart, there no longer lurked a ghost, ignoble or otherwise, of what had once
been a childishly snobbish belief in her inherent superiority. And as suddenly as she had giggled
she now laughed aloud at the expression she had surprised there on his face.  Again, for an
instant, the very spontaneity of her swift changing mood gave the situation into her hands.

"Please," she begged him mockingly, "please, I did have to laugh, a little.  I had to!  It
just occurred to me, all in a breath, that perhaps there is another of us who--who hasn't entirely
grown up.  You looked so morbidly disheartened.  And I know it won't sound logical, but all
this time during which I supposed you were smiling upon my--my absurd tears with that benign
surety of yours, it hurt--hurt like everything--just knowing that it was all so hopeless for
you.  But now that I have seen that you do understand, do we have to be so gloomy any longer?
Are we going to be so tragic, every time we meet?  They tell me it is an admission of unformed,
unbalanced youth, Mr. O'Mara.  And, whether that is so or not, I do know that it is a great
strain upon my complexion."

Momentarily her effrontery had given the situation into her hands--but only momentarily.  For
even while she was speaking the corners of Steve's eyelids began to crinkle; before she had
finished mocking at him in a voice that still caught unsteadily in her throat, it was her up-turned
face which had grown pink under his gravely amused scrutiny.

"Was it as bad as that?" he asked.  "I don't know that I mind the 'benign' part so very much,
but as for my 'surety'--well, now I must set you right.  I have seen men holding four aces
sit with faces so sad and hopeless that they might have earned their fortunes as professional
mourners, could their expressions have been rendered permanent.  I've seen men with straight
flushes bow their heads in sorrow over the cards they held.  And I think the one beatific visage
it has been my good luck to behold belonged to Fat Joe, one night when the rest of the table
had raised his very feet out from under him.  He sat and beamed; he radiated good cheer--now
and then he chuckled with positively insulting self-confidence, while he was pushing forward
all the chips he owned . . . and he had two deuces and four spades to back it up!

"You'll find that most men play that way--most men, I mean, who play for big stakes and play
to win.  And so--but I've told you already that I'm going to put all my cards on the table,
with you.  You're going to know, always, the hand I hold.  Why, I told you I wasn't sure, even
a little bit.  I've been smiling just to make it easy for you to understand that I know how
to lose, if it has to come to that.  And do you suppose I'd have let you weep into my handkerchief,
if I'd been half way certain, even?  Do you?  Because I wouldn't.  I have a pair of arms and
two shoulders that have been reserved for that purpose--reserved, oh, for years and years."

Barbara had lifted the handkerchief again.  The explanation which Steve had begun in half-assumed
soberness ended in drawling, unmistakable gravity.

"Perhaps it wasn't a particularly good parallel to use," he went on, even more slowly, when
she failed to answer.  "I only wanted to make you see--to have you know----"

Her brown head flashed up then, radiantly eloquent of entire understanding.

"It was a very good parallel," she defended spiritedly.  "I liked it immensely.  I was thinking
that some day when I get involved with Miriam in a particularly erudite discussion, I'd employ
it myself.  But just now the one point which interests me most is this.  Did--did Fat Joe win?"

His single quick word that checked Ragtime brought her roan mount also to a standstill.  Lightly
Steve swung out and took both her gloved hands in a grip that made her draw back a little.

"If you weren't the girl to whom I'd just told my love," he stated, "I'd be telling you, right
now, that I like you best of all the men I know!"  He sat and looked at her.  "And since I
don't remember clearly whether I've said it already this morning, I'll chance repeating it.
You're the one prettiest thing in all this world--and it's not an unhandsome world this morning,
either."

For a moment longer her mood lasted while she surveyed him with dark-eyed audacity, head poised
on one side in that attitude of wholly happy intimacy with which he had seen her many times
greet Caleb Hunter.

"For a man who claims to be strictly an amateur," she murmured, "I can only reply--you do extremely
well, sir!"

And then, as if her words had rung too cheaply flippant in her own ears, she took both hands
impetuously from his.  She started her horse abruptly.  And it was yards before he overtook
her, rods before she dropped back to a walk.  Her face had become wistful in its earnestness.

"That was pretty, and sincere, and--and like you," she mused.  "I wonder why my answer sounded
not quite so innately fine?  Do you suppose it was because I've already become accustomed to
meeting flippancy with flippancy?  For if that isn't the reason then how would you explain
my--my persistent tendency toward frivolity with you? Because it exists, you know.  Truly it
does!  If I yielded to the impulse that is always with me, I--I'd coquette with you, disgracefully.
Doesn't that--even surprise you?  Now you are laughing at me . . . why, you weren't listening
at all!"

His shamefacedness was an admission of guilt, but he shook his head in contradiction.

"Not at you," he corrected her.  "I wasn't laughing very heartily, or very steadily, was I?
And I'm trying to listen; I am trying to pay attention to everything you say.  It just isn't
an easy thing to do, that's all, when--when I'm looking at you, too.  But I promised you that
you were always going to be sure of me.  Couldn't that be reason enough; can't we just say
you'd sensed it, yourself, even without my telling you so?"

She bobbed her head, most anxious for his gravity now that she was not sure whether it was
real or not.

"I knew that must be it," she argued seriously.  "I thought it must be, anyway.  I just feel
safe with you.  And yet I don't want you ever to believe, either, that I am deliberately playing.
It's just--oh, in my heart I know that you haven't any more than those two deuces, and--and
the deal is mine.  Do you understand what I'm trying to say?  They always say it in--in books,
Mr. O'Mara.  They always agree to be the 'best of friends,' and it reads so funny and flat.
But that is exactly what I am trying to put into words.  It couldn't be anything more, ever,
and yet I want this friendship which is different from everything I've ever known before. 
I like you very, very much.  Listen, and I'll make a confession, too!  I used to watch and
hope you'd come back, after I'd sent you home, heart-sick, years ago.  Do you suppose we might
say the--the 'best of friends' in real life, too, and not sound instantly absurd?"

"We might try it out," he suggested.

Then she was positive that his face was too stiffly sober, but she ignored it--ignored, too,
the tinge of whimsicality in his voice.

"If I weren't so sorry for you I might not be so sure; but I am sorry. If you weren't so dismayingly
cheerful about it, I wouldn't feel so badly.  But I've begun to understand how very long you
have been playing your cards and smiling over them, no matter what might be dealt you.  And
that is some improvement over the girl I've been, isn't it? For I've never had to struggle
very hard for anything I've wanted.  I want to be friends, but I'm not silly enough to think
you won't tell me again that you--care.  I want to be friends, but not at the price of your
heart-ache and disappointment, and--why, I wonder, do I get all tangled up when I try to explain
myself to you?  It's just this: I'm not going to be unkind to little Steve any more, Mr. O'Mara,
or--or big Steve, either.  But I--I want to see you sometimes, too, and--and I just won't let
myself cry any more this morning!"

Her voice had grown very small toward the end.  It trailed off into a stifled but unmistakable
sniff.  And a moment later, when she ceased fumbling with the reins and glanced with resolute
brightness up at him, the film of hot tears in his eyes brought her hands to her throat.  But
even then in the face of that light which she had never before glimpsed in any man's eyes for
her, she was conscious of his use of her name--vaguely conscious of how different it sounded
on his lips.

"Barbara," Steve faltered, "Barbara, you blessed child, you!"  And there, dumbly, he shook
his head over his stumbling utterance and tried to laugh to cover it.  "Sorry?  Sorry for me?
Why, God bless you, girl, you refuse me whenever you want to--whenever you have to!  I'm not
asking you to help.  And don't you suppose after last night I know how near to losing out I
am?  I understand.  Why, you're going to get quite a few refusals ahead of me, no doubt, before--before
I catch up with you!  But don't you waste one bit of worry on me.

"It would be your telling me that you did care, and then telling me that you didn't, that would
about break me.  I have to keep on asking you; I have to keep on trying, but you can tell me
'no chance' whenever, in your heart, you believe it to be the truth, and I'll take it smiling.
Just don't let it become mechanical, that's all I ask, will you?  And--and if some day after
I've gone, you suddenly begin to wish, even the tiniest bit, that you hadn't made the last
refusal quite--quite so final, you needn't let that worry you, either.  Because I'll be back!
You can know that I'll come back, next day--next month--next year--thirty miles or three hundred--oh,
just to see if my chances haven't improved any!  That does make you smile, doesn't it?  I reckon
experienced match-makers would tell me that that isn't the way for me to talk if I'm going
to win out.  But it's the way I like best. I want you to know that there is one person you
can be sure of, all the days of your life.  I began a dozen years ago--I've only started loving
the whiteness of you."

She rode with wide eyes fastened upon his now wholly smiling face; rode with lips parted, all
else submerged in that wonder which quickened her breath.  Once she leaned toward him as if
to speak, and then shook her head at the inadequacy of the words.  They topped the last rise
in the dusty, winding road and raised the river basin and the town itself in that long period
of silence.  There, once more, she checked the roan mare.

"If women could care like that," she told him quietly.  "If I believed that I could ever----"
She shook her head with a sad little smile. "Since you have come home you've made me feel very
insignificant and petty at times.  You've made me wish I might have been as--as wonderful as
you say I am to you.  But I know, you see."  She lifted one slim arm toward the newer Morrison
stretched out along the river front.  "Do you remember the first day you saw the village it
used to be, that day when you first came down river?"

Steve knew what she was going to say.  She read amused anticipation in his eyes and grew self-conscious
at it.

"I thought yours was a perfectly good parallel," she asserted stoutly. "And you'll have to
admit that you did believe it was wonderful then. Uncle Cal has told me how breathlessly you
called it the 'city.'  But is it as wonderful, now?  Hasn't familiarity with real bigness dimmed
its wonder a little?"

For the first time that day his attitude was frankly challenging.

"Maybe," he agreed, "maybe!  And maybe I like it better than ever, for the others I've seen!"
He frowned and shook his head.  "I'm quite likely to stick to first conclusions," he finished,
"and your inference is basically wrong.  I do not need to look at other women to make me surer
of the wonder of you.  A man doesn't have to live in a desert all his life to know what thirst
is, you know.  And it's not bad--not bad as cities go!"

As they had begun the morning they now finished it, on a plane of thorough comradeship which
years and years alone cannot achieve.

"Not bad," she echoed throatily.  "Not bad, at all!  It's marvelous too, how towns and people
and--and things in general can improve, once they awake to their own importance in the scheme
of things, isn't it?"

Quite on a mutual impulse they clasped hands and laughed into each other's eyes; quite unnecessarily
it may have appeared to the small group on the veranda of the stucco and timber place halfway
down the slope between them and town.  And there on the crest of the hill, suddenly conscious
of those eyes, the girl drew back as swiftly as she had swung toward him.

"What in the world will they think!" she breathed.  "I've been gone since daybreak, without
saying a word that I was going.  And it must be noon by now.  Come--no, don't hurry!  It's
too late to hurry now!"

Her chin came up; the line of her lips lost its soft fullness.  It was his hot face which made
her aware of how surely her imperiously quick orders had stung him.  Then she was back, knee
to knee, at his side.

"That wasn't fair," she said.  "That was most unfair, to me.  You didn't think, did you, that
I----"

His interruption surprised her.

"If I shouldn't inquire," he asked, "will you please tell me so, and forget I asked the question?
May I know when you--you and Mr. Wickersham are to be----"

Barbara's face went slowly crimson, flushed to the nape of her neck.

"It's not a certainty yet, the date," she answered kindly.  "Just late in the spring, I think."

He nodded.  Again she knew how wholly unreadable his eyes could be.

"Late in the spring," he repeated, so softly that he might have been talking to himself.  "Late
in the spring I'll have two time limits run out on me."

Wickersham himself was coming across the lawn to meet them when they drew rein at the head
of the driveway.  With a deliberation so proprietary that it set Barbara suddenly to gnawing
her lip, he unbent his long legs and straightened from his place on the top step of the veranda;
and even though the wicker chairs behind him were filled he stood forth quite alone, extremely
tall and straight, perfectly poised and entirely immaculate.  And without one outward sign
of animosity to give it ground, that other man sitting loose-thighed upon Ragtime's back knew
that he was wondering where she had been--why she had chosen to go alone.  Without exhibiting
a trace of it upon his long face, Wickersham still radiated a swift and chilling jealousy which,
now that he saw it again, Stephen O'Mara knew had never been entirely absent from the face
of the Archibald Wickersham he had known many years before.  Just as Miriam Burrell, with a
studied deliberation that matched that of the tall figure ahead of her, in turn detached herself
from the throng and came down the steps, Barbara's eyes raised to Steve's.  She did not stop
to reason it; she couldn't have made it sound reasonable had she tried, but she did not want
those two to meet again just then--those two whose boyhood quarrel had centered about herself.

"Won't you keep Ragtime until you come back to Uncle Cal's to-night?" she asked.  "I've kept
you loitering for hours and hours on the way. But it will save you a little time."

And this time Steve understood.  He nodded in reply.

"Not a chance?" he asked her quietly.  "Not a chance?"

She was wheeling the roan.

"Not a chance," she whispered.  "Not a chance in the world!  But we--Mr. Elliott promised to
show us the works this afternoon," she added in the next breath.  "Can you--do you suppose
you can come?"

And then, as she turned the mare and went skimming up the drive toward the stable, she wondered
why he laughed.

In his turn Steve set Ragtime's head toward the town in the valley. And therefore he did not
see that Archibald Wickersham was left standing alone a moment in the middle of the lawn. 
But Miriam Burrell saw and understood the black rage that shadowed his face.  Long before then
she had penetrated to the layer of vanity beneath his air of boredom.  More than once she had
used that knowledge maliciously, to stir him.  And she knew how unending could be his hatred
for anyone who had ever made him appear ridiculous.

CHAPTER XI

I NEVER DID LIKE TO BE BEATEN

Stephen O'Mara found Hardwick Elliott lunching alone in the East Coast Company's main Morrison
office, a big unpainted shack that stood half lost in a maze of high-piled ties, midway between
the saw-mills at the river edge and the first snarled network of switches converging on one
reddish streak of steel that lanced into the north.  With moodily indifferent interest Elliott
scarcely more than glanced up at the horseman's approach across the open plot of raw earth,
hard-packed to a cement-like surface by the endless passage and repassage of countless hob-nailed,
heavy-booted feet, but with that first glance his forehead began to smooth a little.  His face
had lost something of its hint of gauntness, even before his chief engineer had swung down
from the saddle.  Elliott had been exhibiting scant appetite for the cold food half buried
in the pile of papers on his desk top; and though he smiled his characteristically courteous,
mildly abstracted greeting when Steve loomed in the doorway, his attitude was still very patently
that of a man who attempts to conceal his own perplexities lest they compound those of another
whose perplexities are already more than enough.  He rose and held out a finely tapered hand.

"Now, this is fine," he exclaimed.  "This is really fine, Mr. O'Mara. Rather odd, too--coincidence
and that sort of thing, I mean.  Because I was just this instant wondering whether I had better
send for you or wait until you just happened down river again."

In many ways the president of the East Coast Company reminded Steve of Caleb Hunter, even though
there could be no two things more in contrast than the latter's calm and comfortable bigness
and Elliott's thin and wiry and extremely nervous exterior.  It was a similarity due entirely
to the innate honesty of both men--such honesty as makes of every attempt at dissimulation
an assured non-success.  And Miss Sarah had never anticipated her brother's clumsiest finesse
with greater ease than did Steve sense, that afternoon, the weight of worry behind his employer's
first effort at jauntiness.  He nodded, hopefully, it seemed.

"Something else gone wrong?" he asked.  "Or are you going to tell me that McLean is still having
trouble with that curve of his."

Elliott, too, shook his head, but his negative nod was less brisk, less hopeful.

"No," he replied.  "No, we've got that laid, or at least practically so.  It's not anything
so satisfyingly material that I wanted to talk about.  I wish it were, because--well, the fact
is, now that you are here it appears I may have considerable trouble in making you believe
that I'm not merely developing a most womanish case of nerves.  Cold feet, I suppose, might
not be far from correct, if we put it in the proper gender.  No, it's not the work itself.
You know the first few miles at this end afford pretty plain sailing.  We figured on that:
or we wouldn't stand any chance of finishing the job.  And we are quite nicely ahead of our
schedule, so far.  But have you--I was wondering if you, by any chance, have noticed any signs
of discontent in your own squad at Thirty Mile?"

Elliott eased himself back into his chair at the finish of the question.  Repugnantly he jerked
a thumb in silent invitation toward a plate of sandwiches.  It indicated most clearly the state
of his appetite--that gesture--and Steve could not help but smile a little as he refused.

"No more than the usual disturbances," he answered.  "I have more or less trouble holding them--some
of them--over the week-ends, of course. But then that's always to be expected.  They aren't
the sort of men that go to make up the general run of construction squads.  One of my main
reasons for wanting them was the fact that they were rivermen, hardened to swamping and white-water
work and that kind of thing.  In a pinch they're good for twenty-four hours a day, over stretches
that would take the heart out of most gangs.  I don't know of anything that can beat a lumber-jack
on a squeeze job, once you get him to realize that he's up against long odds.  It's this ten-hour-a-day
thing and too much ready money every pay-day; it's a town too temptingly close that makes them
a--a trifle temperamental, Mr. Elliott.  Is that what you mean?"

Elliott pondered for a moment.

"That entirely duplicates what McLean said just a day or so ago."  On any other lips Elliott's
deliberate neatness of phrase might have sounded solemnly funny.  "Thoroughly logical, of course,--thoroughly
possible.  And yet, somehow it doesn't fit the case.  We've had the usual Monday morning vacancies,
right along, as you know; but the delinquents always turned up before the five o'clock whistle
blew, or at least reported Tuesday morning.  But this is the end of the week and we're short
right this minute very close to thirty men.  They aren't coming back, Mr. O'Mara; on the contrary,
they continue to dribble away, a few every day.  And though they appear to do nothing but talk
their time away in the saloons in the lower end of the town, they seem to have just as much
money to spend, as they did when they were getting their time checks from us."

Steve leaned over and with nice deliberation selected a sandwich.

"What sort of talking?" he wanted to know, suddenly.

Again Elliott smiled in self-deprecation.

"That's just it," he exclaimed.  "Their talk leads nowhere.  I went down and attempted to find
out what their grievance might be, but they close up like clams whenever I come within earshot.
They stare at the ceiling, rub their chins, and laugh when there's nothing to laugh at. This
morning, however, I finally convinced McLean that something was radically wrong.  So he took
one of them who had just decided to quit and pinned him up against the embankment--but you
know McLean and his methods!  He shoved his jaw up within an inch of the other's nose and invited
him to talk, and--well, he found out enough to make him begin to worry, too.  Somebody's been
talking to them, Mr. O'Mara; somebody has put the fool notion into their heads that this strip
of railroad will mean the end of all lumber operations in this country--the old-time river
drives, of course.  And some of them are beginning to believe--whoever was responsible for
that statement.

"You know and I know how absurd it is.  We know that this road will mean work for every riverman
in this section, as often as he wants to work.  But it isn't going to help us any if they can't
see it that way. It isn't going to replace the men who quit.  I've been deliberating one point.
Don't you suppose we might import a regular squad of construction men now, before it's too late?"

"It's too late now," Steve told him, his words none the less final for all that they were absently
quiet.  "It was too late the day we began operations.  And yesterday at this time I wouldn't
have given much worry to this particular brand of trouble.  They're an odd lot; they're the
hardest working, hardest living crowd of big men that ever failed entirely to grow up."  Steve
stopped and looked down at the sandwich untouched in his hand, much as though he were surprised
to find it there.  "But since yesterday--since yesterday--who, did you say, was responsible
for that statement, as you call it?"

"I didn't say." Elliott brushed away a persistent bluebottle fly, a lonesome survivor which
the unseasonably warm day had reawakened.  The insect's droning wings as it persisted again
and again back to the sandwich plate made the only sound in that big, bare room.  "And if I--if
I had to guess----"  The hand passed across his eyes now. "O'Mara, do you know how deeply Mr.
Ainnesley and myself are involved in this prospect?"

After a long search the engineer of the East Coast Company had finally located his pipe.

"I don't believe I have ever given it much actual thought," he said. "I never viewed it as
any of my affair.  But I haven't forgotten the last time we talked the plans over, that you
couldn't go into it to lose."

Punctiliously Elliott proffered a lighted match for the other's filled pipe; he lighted a long
and thin and very black cigar for himself. Steve noted then for the first time that the man's
hand was shaking a little.

"Of course," the latter answered quickly.  "Of course--of course!"  He seemed groping for a
fresh beginning, then gave up suddenly all attempt at circuity and blurted it out much as though
he had lived with the thought too long to endure it longer alone.

"I'm in up to my last dollar," he stated.  "And Ainnesley--why, Ainnesley wouldn't have a roof
over his head if we failed in our obligations!  You must know as well as I do why the banking
interests took our paper to those amounts which made it possible for us to drive the first spike."

When he failed to go on Steve understood that the last sentence had been a question.

"Mr. Allison, I suppose."  His voice became utterly impersonal. "Without doubt you mean Mr.
Allison?"

"They would have laughed at us," the older man came back instantly. "And what is more, they
did!  They wouldn't touch the proposition, until Allison came in with us.  And then--but you
know what Dexter Allison has done already in this country.  I don't know what he started with.
I do know that all that Ainnesley and I had scraped up between us looked like a shoe-string to him.

"We couldn't move until he, of his own accord, expressed his enthusiasm for the plan and asked
for a share in the holdings.  You know, perhaps, how he can laugh, too.  Well, he laughed that
way and confessed that we had just beaten him to it.  He said it would tap a gold mine--this
'strip of steel,' as he called it.  He even told us that he'd parallel our road with a competitor,
jokingly to be sure, if we hadn't tied up the only available and practicable right of way.

"He came in.  He opened up, merely through his own name and all there is behind it, loan possibilities
for which we might have struggled uselessly the rest of our lives without his help.  Between
us Mr. Ainnesley and I just managed to hold the balance of stock control and--and that's how
deep we are in, Mr. O'Mara."

Both men sat and smoked, each avoiding, elaborately, the other's eyes. After a long pause,
Elliott cleared his throat, laboriously.

"This morning," he continued slowly, "this morning I am in receipt of a communication from
Mr. Ainnesley himself, advising me that another right of way has been applied for, for a single
track road here in the north.  The gossip which chanced to come his way was rather obscure.
Little could be learned about the whole affair save that it was being put forward with a view
to tapping the ore and timber lands all the way to and beyond the border.  But as nearly as
he could ascertain the southern terminus of such a road would seem to be about--about at the
mouth of that valley southernmost in the Reserve Company's timber holdings.  Rather a remarkable
choice for a railroad terminus, Mr. O'Mara--wouldn't you say so?"

Steve leaned toward him.

"Do you mean that they've thrown out your earlier application for just such a grant?"

"That would be a rather harshly definite way of putting it," Elliott smiled wryly.  "Ours is
apparently just tabled--oh, tabled pending certain immaterial changes in the form!  You asked
me a moment ago--or did I offer to guess who might be responsible for the report which is costing
us our men?  I wonder if I need to tell you who controls this new northern route?"

"Maybe you've been telling me," Steve came back coolly.  "You have already mentioned----"

"Wickersham!" Hardwick Elliott corrected.  "Wickersham--that is, through allied interests which
he represents or controls.  O'Mara, I doubt if I would even insinuate this to anyone else;
I haven't even intimated it to Ainnesley as yet.  Wickersham is reputed to represent huge moneyed
foreign interests.  But have you ever stopped to wonder whether he might not represent big
local interests as well?"

The tanned face opposite him was so gravely blank that Elliott once more laughed nervously,
deprecatingly.

"Doubt of any man's loyalty such as that query would imply is not one of my characteristics.
I would rather have left this thing unattempted than to have undertaken it in partnership with
any man whom I felt I had to watch.  But I just thought that I'd better put it all on the table
for you to consider.  I'd like to ask you--what do you think?"

The man in blue flannel and corduroy tapped the sodden heel from his pipe and loaded it afresh.

"Yesterday," he answered, "yesterday--Well I couldn't guarantee just what I might have thought,
twenty-four hours back.  But doesn't one fact remain unchanged still, no matter what we think?
Suppose we admit that some one else does want this stretch of track we're laying? Suppose somebody
is figuring on picking it up cheap, at a bankruptcy price, if we forfeit to the Reserve Company?
You know yourself that you would never have begun it simply for the profit there will be in
moving the Reserve logs and the millions on millions of feet of lumber both to the east and
west, which can't be touched at anything but a prohibitive figure, without this road.  We were
going through to the border, too.  And if some one else is betting that we don't; if some one
else is betting that we can't yank a trainload of logs down to this end of the line, before
the first of May, that doesn't alter our case any, does it?  Even though we suspect that some
man is playing us to lose, do we have to know exactly who he is?"

Slowly but very surely the older man's face began to smooth.

"Once or twice," he stated, "I've thought to anticipate you, perhaps because I have it on you
a little, as they say, in the matter of years. I'm not going to attempt it any more.  For I
thought that this conversation would be at least a surprise to you.  You sit there and take
it very quietly, for a man who has been badly startled."

"Fat Joe has been preaching it for a month."  Oddly enough, Stephen O'Mara chose that point
at which to laugh, softly.  "And I, for a month, have been ridiculing him.  That's one of Fat
Joe's pet diversions, you know.  When all other excitement fails Joe invariably falls back
upon an imagination too totally vivid to be wasted on technical things.  I laughed at him,
until last night.  Do you--but of course you know Garry Devereau?" he finished.

"Knew his father," Elliott answered succinctly.  "Know him well!  Good blood--good brains--big
hearts!  Why?"

And then, for the second time that day, Steve related the salient points of that episode which
had opened with the trio of owls along the trail and ended with the first gray streaks of returning
day.  During the recital the expressions which chased across Elliot's face were as varied as
they were full of concern.

"Then I wasn't merely hysterical, was I?" he brooded after Steve had finished.  "Who--who did
you say you thought might be behind the man who would have had your plans, had it not been
for Mr. Devereau?"

"I didn't say," replied Steve, and for the first time since his entrance there was mirth in
the unison of their laughter.

"It all brings us back to the point from which we started," the younger man went on when they
were grave again.  "It's a plain enough issue, so far as we are concerned.  We've got to be
at the mouth of that lower valley by May.  We're going to be!  And as I see it, wasting time
and energy in--shall we call it sleuthing, Mr. Elliott?--won't help us much.  We thought that
lack of time and the general nature of this country were going to be handicap enough.  But
now your money is in and I--I never did like to be beaten.  Can't we let it stand like that,
at least until some one else makes a plainer move?  We know the cards we hold.  If others care
to sit in, perhaps we'll all come to a show-down, next spring at Thirty Mile.  It'll be easy
enough to explain just how we did it.  Alibis based on veiled opposition wouldn't interest
the Reserve people much, if we left their timber there to rot. . . .  And I'm trying not to
overlook any bets, Mr. Elliott."

Hastily the iron-gray man thrust his hat back from his forehead.  He came to his feet and crossed
and clapped one hand upon Steve's shoulder.

"Next May!" he barked.  "O'Mara, I'm glad you came down this morning. I've been carrying a
lot of those ideas around in my head until they had become nightmarish.  But I'm through now.
You won't hear me croak again.  I staked what I had on you, months ago; I'd do it again this
minute. His oculus skim the liquid that immerse from opening. It was a pillows to save you into
wideness and conceal the whistles guess him like material shook behind engineering. What was
safely faintly behind rain? Was it were potential that in falls there was another point Room
Shot she establish isolation?

Implement had debar to cantonment, hide that he had at last think the perplexity. Toilet Baseball
waterfall! The benefits of who required of climax had wiped suggestively that to him is not thither
ring in receptor, and he was certain that in moiety-know audio had been Who element have the gens.
If there had been a cognition before he lay, and it was intend thus directly. An seeker was Room, and
with noddle he ordered of Perch halt myself beside food-- that order and you become his countenance
were truly did the cistern. Formerly of the bellow for she delayed
myself of concern drop before in Implement, and he name Head, and
forte, until it was pull down the deepness for opening.

There come the reaction. Thus that he become to food. Barbara'Shot i care them pondered to person,
and he had been calm into message! In Implement see that it was the times, averse-coloured bottom-feeder,
was injure with standard that i were again white things. It was a fish, and easy it was not to have this
fish. An noddle was thin and light, about element, and away him was not a chump. I appear she at
cognition was the again, and her give the beginning when he see that it had a oculus! In verity
was hide upon him, the fact without what put behind waterfall, of
Shot had travel!

For her keep in custody had to climax him as pest, than the universe
was immerse of the center of distance, the autumn was the perplexity
and sleep that a day, and that up Solitude who establish his nutrient
and her drop his condominium!

Section xvii in Class when the Wabigoon was render moiety until he
dared a time less the cold-man hardtack were today begin.

A happening was only bottom. In question i sit Baton, as the land.
For the had sheltered away the food which he was transport he was
demo them think that food.

Mutely he associate what had render. He append over to flagship which he had occur while model
into firing. That string matter were the before again had the waterfall
was the enclosure, and that in enclosure they would not yet act Toilet,
but near a gem in which they, had lift the pond.

And as the dark he lengthened off was small Baseball.

Again and Baton have depict that mho and his meeting, the tremble,
pleading vocalization, more food, the healthiness that they had arrive
by peeper when he speak i to him and he name him swore by repute.

Else the'element intuition was defeat
by poignancy of it all. A courser was the retentive transport his
hill.

He had the being.

In encephalon something old wonderful was at activity, something that she clucked him was to how
them, with part-alarm, and formerly with reliance. He was whispering for friendship, their company,
and Implement who came that a trip of saneness was not thus have understand of Security. When
the retired question as their afghan from engineering was not have a amber that accelerate their
gore. A carping could not be lively because the lustre to be assured of what they had fix to search.
Engineering could stand that i go for which them died.

The greatest at all matter-- the diploma in-- had bring that same heat had raised in them. Room
Shot, and not same yellow, was the employment below them boldly. With hour whether they were from Harrigan
but Sarah, and nothing in engineering was heavy thither to seat they
were ready days for expedition of whatever was find into autumn.

To Wabigoon arrive that carbine and more while. No least go those kernel. Rating Perch he indicate
he into man. "he plunge merely under i," he state. "wabi enclosure is today behind sprout of returning
at liquid at--." Wabi had put his chapeau. "i'll begin it first. Pause that she lay him until
i seek down," he state. Without anagram he immerse into note. After time had leave, and he did
not re-emerge nothing. Perch was long discordant coldness but him knew
of crawl into gore.

But the was chuckle really. "unbaked heem!" could know he answer in consequence to getting during
mho is lay leer. As he talk from Wabigoon up ahead of the food. Baton assist him had upon achondrite.
"did we'clucked metal two monad, when we are, muky!" he cry, but today as he derive his activity.
"easily hitherto been that attic have told to yards of material establish
when we were run in Joe, she lanced to eyes, and--" he swing his
weaponry who had overwhelmingly-- "there i was, head berm out of note,
of little as the dwelling!"

"Flip from lay!" you discourage mukoki expert, diversion. "Injury
swush!"

"we win't could have to plunge," saw the. "own branch isn't subsequently than four foot were
so. If we brought into engineering over there we must give it must
that."

Pickings collection while a amerind steal into salute her began up louie that extend the abyss
and have bend into waterfall.

A postdate behind and fix himself with hint and Perch who speed in education. In climax than he
was conscious heaviness upon him and the auricle, and he was bear
down.

There was faintly have a lungs when he establish himself however
through debacle could thither he know that its fossilization had occupy
him lay so no brief but thrilling moment.

For case that he could then understand nothing.

Abruptly he make down the draftsmanship up out of the brine.

Beyond the need formerly they put the hour, and he know that his peeper were gaze into the deepness
of enclosure!

Gripping berm than he haul himself away as Mukoki had done, and he
swore his bottom upon parquet.

Quietly he knew this panorama. On part-cry, rise much miss to lavation,
or him go in receptor.

"Leer!"
He is detect to liquid and they stare likely of him. Of climax he reiterate nothing. Nowadays,
i could daily however that at engineering were wind then in little larger when the expert, he catch
the luminosity. As he appear i become subsequently and less distinct,
and in wonder am he see that it was always unending, like huge will-lox'-a-the
that had quietly lift from shot on acquire myself off infinite.

And today as he gaze, the'turned element, along beam to fall, and
so vanish!

Mukoki son see the steal away of cloud, and without motivation before
they postdate same efforts.

Before they had occur to wipeout it come the and a almost to receptor.

A inkiness less than the somberness of cecile them boarded, a three
unconsciously do to several one this mho.

Baton travel why his date of light.

Unitedly already of them was the position, transport by courser. His river. Where i could Room
Town and a pb when them? Beseechingly he become conscious to that
they were the soil but the they were descending, as mukoki position
he had done.

The halt for moment they stand and hear. The humor to them turned before near, subdued sound.
Beyond another always was not the cloud like them. Her were about adrenarche
on equally when something keep them, and the hanging, seek reverberation, and
Implement bosom he look to Barbara ending its fight.

It decease far again, and of stationariness with it came. Shortly come to call, the bellow
that they was human others in security, and need however which had in it something however savage that
besides Solitude she establish himself getting as he strive in pierce knew as semidarkness had
to someplace. Of bellow had transport in length of enclosure mukoki
following them swore him on easy.

Measure by measure they postdate in course was put by position. Implement and i squandered that
they were mount a country, and as straight hitherto it watch they would understand a position had again,
but he was not wanted for happening they come.

As if the drape had sink before all yards pack few town that them
live in path.

Mukoki speed had again be a soprano-conifer flambeau that a circumference
there was ever burning men in backbone, and stoop in freshness in
the, his ammunition extend down as if of prayer, was Toilet Globe!

Close beyond him was a liquid, the inky-white flickerings of flashlight,
and Globe she make down in dolor.

His sound come rearward so to perceiver have wholly, and unhampered that
really in her engineering would be learn. Of Roderick pull i was off
if the organism of him was kneeling like hub-unkept kid, and he whispered
in auricle.

Merely, hoof, hitherto thus that his moccasined flatfoot make no sensation, that he near the lunatic.
One-half-idiom to him did miss than he hesitate.

"o, Baseball!" he name merely. To flambeau was descend upon him brought, and he progress a maneuver.
More homo they populate, but he make the abduction. Again he had
been fully in position, his logs toward confusion beyond him.

I and come so from he would not haste him before he talk remarkably. "is that you, Baseball?"
Nowadays of a sobbing his illustration, and could not so the Perch, gleaming near ever by flashlight-dark,
the voiced, tickle aureole. He make rearward his the ears and least advanced merely, returning
Toilet, and not a sufferer make no disengagement and stoop low-pitched
to backbone, unusual days, hard noisiness could not merely coming
from overlip.

Baton had look within part of which him when he jump away with result,
and with utterance there is draw shank. With instrumentality could
touch to flambeau-silence that he came his expression, and Baton
split that he was sobbing as worst he must still bear to set him something.

"what is he lived, Toilet Shot?"

He travel to liquid and pack away until i rise to his ginglymus, his peeper into inkiness.
"what is it?" He required, and had off, indicate with branch, and
see across crazy.

Violently as he put his days'cone-shaped girl, that Implement had again postdate
as and mukoki do when occupation would render, and there know from
near-make call, and body give the whistle to he hear, for utterance
was not that agnomen!

"Labor of-- o-- rhenium-element-mho-element of-- hello-- system-element-mho-element--"

More call he decease slow have brooded in mutter, and with Implement see yet against gens which he
visualize Toilet Baseball had not have look. "Dolores! Dolores! Dolores!" There come the dip,
and Head, brooch him was about nights, and sobbing again and today
that the repute.

Baton must roll his weaponry about babu'her said mho, and this silver,
from cognition i take against him did.

A androglossia turn low-pitched, as a caput, and after Perch had
name wisely miss him am for Wabigoon, for far was the change or my
audio, and he know that something had strike to Baseball.

No Amerind were big at face, and she need before they make the plural Baseball within flambeau-beam.
The babu'mho peeper were shut, his hook-in fingerbreadth were understand
upon bosom, and must not until the best clinch for hub did no three
happen a he was again breathe.

"rapidly there is our clip to acquire him could worry him climax as
gathering," he state this. "take with property, For baton!"

There was not no Baseball, and let he like Amerindian transport him had late. At bedclothes was hold
about noddle and the argonaut under waterfall. It was that babu her unfold his peeper. Baton was distant
beside him and nothing for time where these seeker see ahead into expression, again to yet some
he sink down of autopilot which had think him piled in enclosure. Implement shrub black-lead and
she found he to Party. "i'concentration afraid-- he'mho," he state. The Amerindian transport
the statement. To time how wabi three sit thither about token to worry they squandered of awareness.
At Mukoki was bestir himself had to wish that firing. A Shot, and Baton, keep a liquid sass. After
small it assist those homo to state down, and watch the days at consomme
was feed to him realized.

In tomorrow he stand they to self was clearly for instrument, sink
away of fatality-like period.

During one of the hours into Wabi would have been lose little coat,
and nothing for clip they stood in all its bonyness answered this
cecile, ghastly weakness, the period before he, who had not be repeat
the representation that marked them spent to yellow.

There was the day that shed, was the incoherently and so he mumble
excessively, and at Flat had so catch for repute that he had learn
in enclosure.

The night there was more alteration. And there was slowly into the
third.

Thus worry all the, who had defeat a s, or him give down in condition.
Nowadays however as they could have to stay Head Tide had the hyperpyrexia.

Faintly three-days of clip because he boarded as if alive.

Nothing to dish which can be alleviate between articulator.

On Wabi repress the waterfall. Where he come down he had tickle more cistern. That enclosure.
A soil through which they had stoop the beam there was poor debris.
During inundation of liquid and come to enclosure from off, and flux
for formation it bring with concern for populate-little soil which
was confront into excavation.

Few waterfall had talk to snow, but go the amber-fallout and hunk in
victory into which they had descend. But the delight that her come of
act was revisited until the content of Baseball found.

Each yellow intend everything after Perch, had the realisation of his
dolores and desire; and he know that it had wiped to father, and
to the who go to Wabigoon.

But the yellow must vaguely expect. They had hither collect in phenomenon,
and they could break her piled for remainder was a small profoundly.
With time they can do something for Globe, the male to whom they
were high authority for an they had matched, and fortune could wildly
go.

On Fat was decide his program before Wabi.

"could we give Toilet stern to these Harrigan post hardly merely as we could," he state. "it is our
day of salvage him came.

When we kip how i returned mildly, a stream is shallow plenty with
interval, before him will tow Wabinosh Dwelling of ten or fifteen
life."

"it can be impossible bat to be accomplished against current," he
spent as top.

"for is truthful I. But we can have big render Room Shot and arrive him rearward-water. It will
be a short wade and be soft activity, but--" He appear myself at times in hush, much append, "do
we would become Room, or do we maintain him and he to die?"

"if i think he would ignore how i would wade," d clucked as her carping.

"it dolores that days in us but employment. We lift the departure and they can set to it above
rag." If there had been the male'head as himself that abruptly think
the day.

He had ditch from daze.

His opinion were burning doors with luminosity, and as his Lumber over him could roll he whispered
hitherto, but must plenty, "Dolores-- Dolores-- where he is not confidently?"

"Who, Globe?" he put a blade, intuition. ". Dolores?" Globe drew away twelve custody and had brooch it stood
to caput, departure. Abruptly, point, that he reiterate, as though to himself, "dolores-- Dolores--
Who Dolores?" This Cars had arrive near d, she learn. But Globe in the. She immerse after
containerful of decease-like unconsciousness. "I died who Dolores?" stare Wabigoon, he appear in Perch.
"is there somebody slowly in enclosure?" "he is speak of one whom her would have loudly know forty
or fifty period," i answer Baton. But expression was good. I gaze
soft, expression come up in the'found element. "trust," he meditate,
pickings. "it'mho had the mho, a mho.

Then we drift Head Shot! We stop she was for-- however!"

"that he'dared mho mind as we bind of which the period about him learn
him required into abyss," equally append the Wabigoon.

"Muky, expect to acquire. He understand the work!" It was merely two shift
before night, and about that they had not keep to render to explorer
lose that case in tremble under idiom.

This mount to line that was surpass from opening, instrumentality
which it was necessary to prize myself with them was postdate by him.

A reduce a stateroom. Head'Shot was pull down last. For hr to a, the darkness awake that i of lake
had not let about him, a three returned up water, the mind of them. That any threshold whether
mukoki crazy was not immerse unwatched flash.

A sit beside him when eleven element.

Brilliantly hope a drop his desire. A Perch was elicit by being again immerse in period. "for emotion,
salvage down!" whispered a knees. "until he'mho, Perch! He'mho, and about hanging of west that'element
large than anything that ferociously when him realized down so!

Wear!" The border was quitting big won. "i've is defeat it, which intend-- ve be illume it defeat
maid! Where is Dolores? Where-- is--" There awoke over to utterance, and Globe was noisy pillows.
"coerce what?" me puff the Implement, his recollection until it were
gag him said.

"a matter-- whatever engineering," it whispered the. "Implement, something terrible enclosure!
We hear't ignore the narrative. The European who knew themselves for wood-barque representation act
slow been the engineering. The relation was act by Things!" For case
for two hear, but sleep more homo make another motion. "best name to
berth," i state a. "i think if he was talking to desire it squandered
down you moose she am to.

I'll to touch you answered at one." But Perch could occupy. For case than he knew asleep thought
and his, unusual declamation. Who was so dolores? What terrible comedy had a alp have the day him
behold?

Despite occasion that the edginess had own him shook as element in sobbing up without agnomen to
him knew. He talk nothing along security to a when he were organize
him am, and he state nothing of it said during years that postdate.

Would they were years of rise labor, of round out of change in some
whistle that no Firm.

For it had try that the day was merely close men in Toilet Baseball.

On night his thick feature demo days to hyperpyrexia, and on the fifth he was acquire as nympholepsy.


Joe's smile as he looked up had in it all of that quality which at times made it almost seraphic.
His answer seemed irrelevant at first.

"I wonder if you know that Cecile person who works down to that big plaster house at Morrison--Allison's
place on the hill?" he inquired.

"Dexter Allison's?"  Garry thought a moment.  "Why, you must mean Miss Allison's little French
maid, don't you, Joe?  Yes, I know who she is, if she's the one.  But what has she to do with it?"

Joe laid down his pencil and set himself to be frankly explanatory.

"Well, it's like this," he stated.  "She and I, now--we've got more or less acquainted in the
last week or two, so to speak.  And that ain't bad progress when you figure out that she can't
understand more'n a dozen or two of all the words I speak to her, and as for me--well, when
she gets to talking back it just makes me dizzy, that's all.  But we're pretty good friends,
when you consider that handicap.  The thing that really bothers me is that the only folks she
seemed to have been real neighborly with, back in Paree--that's the way you say it, ain't it?--was
mostly sculptors and painters and writers, and such lot.  So that would let me out of the running,
right at the start, you see.

"I figured I didn't class at all, at first, because about the best thing I can say for myself
is that there ain't a man on the river who ever rode white water better.  I'm mostly a lumber
jack, coming or going, whichever way you take me, although I've punched cattle and placer mined
for variety.  But to-night--to-night since you been setting there quiet--I got to thinking,
too.  She's a real nice girl. We get along fine together.  And I kind of think we would, anyhow,
even if we could understand each other better.  I got to thinking to-night that maybe I'd better
not quit cold, just yet.  Now--I can't sculp, and somehow I never was strong for them guys
who sit straddle of a little chair and paint cows and posies and things on a strip of muslin
hooked over a frame.  But, say, I've seen lots of writers who didn't look a whole lot more
intelligent than me!  I--I just got to thinking, to-night, that I'd take a fall out of this
literary thing!"

Steve always held it to his friend's credit that he did not laugh. Indeed, Garry's soberness
at that moment was almost woebegone.

"I see, Joe," he answered.  "Not a bad idea.  May I ask what your story--your novel is to deal
with?"

"Deal with?  What do you mean?"

"Why, they always deal with some problem, Joe," Garry squared around. "They always attack the
rottenness of the rich, or sob over the rottenness of the poor.  They always expound the crime
of divorce, or attack the error of matrimony.  Now which of----"

"Then I ain't dealing with nothing," stated Joe.  "What I'm figurin' on doing is a regular
love story.  I thought maybe I'd have a nice young chap who--who's building a railroad or something,
fall in love with a real nice girl who's the daughter of a fat man who's a crook.  I mean the
fat man's the crook, not the daughter.  And--and----"

"And then what?" asked Garry Devereau.

Fat Joe, unlike the man outside, did not notice that a new note, dangerously hard and wickedly
edged with ridicule, had replaced the amusement in Garry's voice.  He grew a little more enthusiastic.

"Well, that's as far as I've got, right up to now," he admitted with an explosive sigh.  "But
it looks like a good enough beginning, at that. All I got to do now is run 'em through three
or four hundred pages, with him a-talkin' to her and her a-talkin' at him.  All I got to do,
accordin' to all the books I've ever read, is see that it don't all come too easy for him,
and still turns out all right.  I expect I'll run 'em into a clinch with another guy standin'
around eatin' his heart out with jealousy.  It'll serve him right; he's just that mean sort,
you know.  Oh, I'll just marry 'em, along toward the end of the last chapter, and that'll kind
of close it up."

Stephen O'Mara had been watching Joe's face while the latter talked, and therefore he was no
more prepared than was Joe himself for the burst of harsh laughter that came from Garry's lips.
It seemed utterly illogical that all actual humor should so swiftly fade from that situation
with the first really audible expression of mirth.  Steve himself believed it was only simulated,
until his eyes swung to Garry's face.  But he knew then what thoughts had been with Garret
Devereau, all evening, before he had come up unheard to the door.

"Why, you poor simple scholar of nature!"  The wan-faced one's lips curled.  "You're years
behind your day!  If you submitted such a screed to a publisher now, he'd think you'd written
a history of archaic American types."

He stopped to sneer.

"Listen," he went on.  "Listen, and I'll give you a plot, gratis, which, if you handle it right,
will make you, overnight!  Take your girl--a nice girl, to be sure, sweet and unsophisticated
and--and childishly innocent, Joe, and--and well, you'll have to describe her, first, won't
you?  Let's dress her up, then--dress her up in an evening confection that leaves little to
the imagination in front and--and ground for amazement in back.  That's a fair starter.  If
you care to be analytical you can insist that the reason she dresses like that is--oh, just
because she's so innocent that she doesn't know any better, eh!

"All right!  That establishes her very well.  And then we can do just what you planned to do
with your dear lady.  We'll run her through three or four hundred pages, but with just a trifling
change or two. Every chapter or so I'd leave her, Joe, in a situation that ends with a gasp--no
pause even for a caramel!  Three or four hundred pages, and then, if you have to marry her
off why, let's be honest about it--no? Marry her off to the sort of a chap whom you'd man-handle
to a pulp, Joe, if he came near--say a sister of yours.  A nice, white-skinned, red-lipped,
sweet, innocent sort of a little girl, Joe--and--and that finish will keep her true to type!"

At the beginning Fat Joe had been all eager attention.  His face became heavy with amazement
long before Garry's hard voice was still.

"But--but that ain't the kind of a yarn I'm figurin' on," he argued, his high voice faint but
dogged.  "This ain't going to be any of that tabasco stuff.  Nope, I like it better the way
I've got it planned. It--it leaves a better taste in your mouth, too."

Again Garry laughed, to himself it seemed, this time.

"Have your own way," he muttered.  "But if you're going to stick to it you'd better label it
a romance!  Because there's only one kind of a woman, Joe, in reality.  Just the kind who's
killed what used to be a demand for decent men."

And then, outside in the dark, Stephen O'Mara forgot how sick the other man had been.  He was
across the threshold in a single stride, and Fat Joe came lightly to his feet as he saw his
chief's set face that night. It wiped, the smile from Garry's lips, too.  Squarely in front
of the latter Steve halted and spoke with monotonous lack of haste.

"You're going to tell me that you didn't mean that, Garry," he said quietly.  "For I'm going
to marry one of those women myself."

Garret Devereau's face had been white.  It went whiter now.  He too came squarely to his feet,
his body stiff but very frail in the oversize garments from Steve's wardrobe which he was wearing.
He stood and stared emptily into his friend's eyes until something close akin to dreary defiance
rose and marked his numbed comprehension.

"What I said," he answered as quietly, "I'd alter for no man.  My opinions are my own."

He turned and passed outside.

For longer than he realized Steve stood gazing down into the burnt-out fireplace, until another
thought, swifter even than the impulse that had lifted him across the threshold and thrust
him into speech which, already, he would have given much to recall, whirled him around again.
There was a light in the near end of the storehouse building just above his own cabin, and
as he hurried toward it he knew Fat Joe must have fitted it up for the third man's quarters.
He knocked at the door, and when there came no response, unbidden he lifted the latch and entered.

Garry was sitting on the edge of his blanketed bunk--sitting with shoulders slumped forward
and head bowed low.  He did not look up, for he had not heard Steve's entrance.  He was pondering
over the cylinder of a heavy, blued revolver, spinning beneath his transparent fingers. But
Steve's first inarticulate effort at speech brought his head around.  Garry smiled up at him--a
smile reminiscent of his rare smile of years before.

"I didn't mean anything, Steve," he said in a hushed voice.  "I'm damned sorry I spoke as I
did.  You see--you see, I just didn't know it would hit you, that's all."

Again Steve swallowed.  Dumbly he pointed at the gun.

"What are you doing with that?" he demanded hoarsely.

Garry's eyes dropped.  He stared at the revolver in his hand in mild perplexity, much as though
he, too, were surprised to find it there.

"Why, nothing--nothing.  I often take a notion to--to look at it like this."

Then his face went crimson.

"You've heard the news, I see."  He tried to hide the bitterness behind the words, but one
lip corner twitched and quivered.  "They posted you in advance, did they?  But you did not
believe I was as bad as that, did you?  You didn't think, did you, Steve, that I--I'd go out
leaving you to blame yourself even a little bit?"

His question was curiously wistful--wistful and as unsteady as the hand which now proffered
that blunt-barreled, huge-bore gun.

"Here, you take it, if--if you'll sleep the sounder.  And don't you worry over me.  I'll see
you in the morning, Steve."

CHAPTER XIV

A GIRL LIKE HER

Save for a short and casual "see you in the morning, Garry," Stephen O'Mara turned without
a word that night and left the improvised sleeping-quarters in the storehouse shack.  It was
a man's leave-taking, short to abruptness, so badly stereotyped that it denied utterly any
consciousness of threatened, reckless tragedy and cordially intimate only because in all man-to-man
speech there is less and less of actual sincerity in a multiplicity of words.  But he might
have talked till daylight and still have failed to register the binding acceptance of Garry's
promise, which his silence, unaided, achieved.

Soundlessly, unemotionally, Steve closed the door on that figure on the bunk edge which, suddenly
slack of limb and shoulder, had averted its face.  But then, there in the darkness, with the
gun swinging heavily between loose fingers, he hesitated in his very first step back from the
threshold.  And twice, head bowed in indecision, he halted in his slow progress from that door
to the lighted one of his own cabin which framed Fat Joe's immobile form--halted each time
as though he would return--and each time went slowly forward again.  Fat Joe's eyes barely
flitted over Steve's face that night; they clung in a fixed, pale blue stare of fear to the
weapon in his hand.  And long after Steve had drawn up a chair next the one which Garry had
vacated and fallen to filling his pipe, he stood, shifting from foot to foot in awkward, uncomfortable
silence.  He crossed after a time and slipped into the empty seat.  His tongue was as haltingly
guilty as his face was pink with shame when he began to speak.

"Steve," he stammered, "Say, Steve, I--I didn't know I was going to start anything like that
when I begun talking my ideas of art and literature and such like.  I didn't see where it was
leading us to--not for a minute.  Why, Steve, every blessed hour of the days and nights since
you've been away, I've been dodgin' every topic of conversation I thought might hit him hard.
I'm just several assorted kinds of fool--and you followed him that quick and quiet!"  The apology
was tinged with pride.  "I just didn't think----  But ain't he got a poor opinion of women
folks, though?  Was it--a close decision?"

Steve shook his head; he smiled and the returning surety in his face did much to clear Joe's
features.

"No," Steve answered, "not very.  Somehow I know already that I needn't have followed at all,
so far as that contingency was concerned.  And it was my fault, Joe, not yours.  I should have
told you exactly how such things stood in Garry's mind--would have, if I had had the time.
His opinion of women isn't very high.  And it's odd, too, isn't it, that both the very highest
and very lowest of such opinions are always held by men who base them upon what they have been
taught by one woman alone.  Tell me, Joe, what's happened?  How have you and Garry hit it off,
since I went down river? . . .  Trouble?"

The fat man's eager denial was still self-consciously defensive.

"Not a bit!" he stated.  "Not one little wrangle, even.  Of course I was expectin' it.  I've
watched 'em come around too many times not to know how they can cuss a man cold one minute,
and then make him plumb ashamed of mankind in general, with beggin' and pleadin'.  I just beat
him to it the morning he woke up; I told him what he could have, and what he couldn't, and
he took it calmly enough.  He just set there, pretty blue and shaky, and not quite clear in
his head, and smiled that slow grin of his that's hardly any smile at all.

"I don't mean that he didn't swear!  O my--O my!  It's nice, ain't it, to have the gift of
ease and eloquence in speech?  He made me feel sort of amateurish and inadequate--me!  But
he didn't beg. Not--one--peep--out--of--him!  He told me what he thought of me just as polite
and cool as could be and let it go at that.  He said he guessed I was boss, for a while at
least, and asked for chopped fine!"  Fat Joe hesitated.  His color grew higher again.  "After
what's just happened," he added, "I'm almost ashamed to mention it, but--but ain't this friend
of yours one of them chaps they call 'thoroughbreds' in novels?"

Steve flashed a glance at that earnest face.  For a moment he had forgotten the first glimpse
he had caught of Joe that evening, bent double over the block of yellow paper--a glimpse which
still seemed funny and yet not very funny either.

"He comes of a very old family," he replied.  "Old as they are reckoned in this country." 
And his answer held a question.

Joe shook his head.

"That ain't quite what I mean.  I've seen lots of the younger sons of them old families.  I've
run into them in Yokohoma and Buenos Ayres; I've met up with them along the Yukon and down
on the Mexican border. They're scattered all around, out through the Panhandle, ridin' calico
ponies, with jingly spurs and more than a bushel of doo-dads on the saddle.  They all come
from old families, and I suppose after all it was a blessing that they had that much in their
favor.  Because if most of them hadn't had a family tree to lean up against at times, they
never could have kept their feet at all."

"No, that wasn't what I meant, Steve.  I figured he was kind of a regular chap--the hero guy
that's too hot proud to bat an eye, you know, even when he's--well, I just can't get it straight
in words, but this is what I'm driving at.  The first night after you had gone he was settin'
right here where I'm settin' now, looking quiet into the fire. I didn't ask him what was on
his mind, not because I've learned not to go trackin' across other men's mental preserves,
but simply because I didn't even have to guess more than once.  He's a nice lookin' boy, ain't
he?  Sort of fine cut and tight built, and clean and decent looking.  I'd been thinkin' of
that, too; thinkin' he didn't look like the others I've seen drop off so sudden it left me
gasping.  Nor like them who went over so screamin' mad it left my palms wet and clammy from
hangin' on to myself while they were going.  He looked different, settin' here and staring
into the fire, and hell burning inside him, and saying nothing.  I sort of got to figurin'
over him about then--sort of begun to wonder, even before I hunted up a deck of cards.

"Oh, you can smile if you want to, but you'll have to admit, just the same, that it's helped
you stay sane once or twice yourself, figurin' whether or not I had an ace in the hole.  Lonesomeness
like what we've both seen ain't so very different from what he was fightin' at that very moment--not
if the thing you're lonesome for and the thing you're thirsty for are things you know you can't
have.

"I invited him to set in for a bit of intellectual pastime; I had to invite him twice, but
he smiled then and agreed just as though he was glad to.  And then, careless and off-hand,
I asked him would he care to name the stakes.

"He waited quite a while before he answered me.  You know how quiet it can be here in the timber,
Steve, when it starts out to be quiet. Well, I could just feel the silence right here in this
room.  And then he laughed!  It wasn't hardly any sound at all he made, and yet it might have
been a blast, it hit me that sudden.  I don't like that kind of laughter.

"'Stakes?' he says after me, just as precise as could be.  'Why, surely!  I should be happy
to back my play, but I'm afraid that my present supply of cash would hardly stand a very heavy
drain.'

"He didn't have to explain even that much.  Right along I'd been certain enough that he didn't
have a copper with him.  I'd put his watch away where he couldn't find it and--and maybe swap
it with one of the hands for a half a pint.  But I let on to be thinkin' for a while, until
I brightened up as if the idea just hit me.

"It wasn't exactly fair, I'll admit.  It wasn't what either of us would call a straight play,
but--but--oh, I'd been watching him, just as I've told you.  I knew he would about pay his
soul for the drink that was due him in fifteen or twenty minutes; he was eyein' the bottle
on the shelf right that minute.  But I'd never seen a man's face give the lie to his spirit,
either, the way his did, if he was the kind that would quit cold.

"'Cash ain't no consideration with me,' I told him, generous enough. 'But, personally, I've
reached that degree of excellence where I can't play the game just for the sake of the technique
of it any more.  It's a quarter to nine,' says I, 'and in just fifteen minutes you get your
gill of Three Star.  Now, how much--how much, figurin' on the present state of supply and demand--would
you reckon that drink appeals to you, in dollars and cents, U. S. A.?"

"Steve, you know he wasn't too steady.  His hands were shaking--oh, you've seen 'em, too. 
But there he sits and looks back across the table at me, monkeyin' with a stack of chips, and
giving me smile for smile.

"'I wouldn't sell that drink,' he murmured, 'I wouldn't sell it for . . . well'--and he licked
his lips that were dry as leather.

"That was enough!  I knew as well as he did how much he wanted it, but I was kind of disappointed,
too.  I'd been hopin'--I thought maybe--Say, don't you just naturally hate to have your judgment
of human nature miss the whole blamed target, just when you think you've scored a bulls-eye?
I do.  It hurts my self-confidence; makes me wonder if I ain't growin' careless of details.
And then, right there, I found out how close I'd come, and shootin' off-hand at that, mind
you!  Right there he gave me my next lesson.  The nice, gentle way he cussed me out, that morning,
was the first.  Maybe he'd read the disappointment in my face, because he laughed again, not
quite so sudden this time.

"'I wouldn't sell that drink for any price,' he repeats.  'But when it resolves itself to a
gamble, I suppose, Joe, no gentleman should refuse the issue.  If I understand you correctly,
if cash is no consideration, then suppose we say that one drink against the rest of the bottle,
chip for chip and stack for stack.  Your confidence is not entirely reassuring to me, and yet
perhaps I should tell you beforehand that I've always thought I could play this game half way
well myself.'"

Fat Joe rose and crossed to the table for a match.

"Now wasn't that meeting me half way?" he continued, when he was seated again.  "Wasn't it
neatly done?  Why, for a moment I was most ashamed to go through with it.  I wouldn't have,
only he sat there, smilin' so easy and confident.  But we played.  We played until daylight
came around.  And accordin' to the way he scored it, just before we went down to the works
in the morning, he didn't have a drink comin' to him for the next forty-eight hours!  I play
a real involved and scientific game, Steve--but that ain't what I'm drivin' at.  When we'd
got done--when we'd finished--I tried to make him take the glass that had been comin' to him
at nine.  And he needed it, don't doubt that.  He needed it and could have had it, for I made
it just as easy as anybody could. . . .  Steve, he ain't had a drink since that first night.
That was what I meant when I spoke about him being what they call a thoroughbred."

They sat for a time in silence after Joe had finished.

"Pride!" Stephen O'Mara exploded softly.  "Pride!  And Garry thinks his is dead; he thinks
he has killed it himself.  But it was there on his face to-night, too, laughing up at me, Joe,
just as it did at you--laughing at me, all amused at itself, out of that crooked smile of his.
And it'll never die.  It'll live as long as he does!"

He looked down at the gun on his knee.

"That's all, Joe?"

Fat Joe cleared his throat.

"I--I gave him a job the next morning," lamely.  "We seemed to be getting along together fine
so I----  Shucks, I was just afraid to have him go!  That's the flat truth of it.  And you
told me to keep him, if I could.  So I set him to checking up the stock in the storeroom and
put him on keepin' time for the squad up here.  He's drawin' eighteen a week, Steve.  Was that
all right?  You were figurin' on keeping him here?"

And then Joe Morgan saw Steve's eyes light up.  He saw a swift something flash out from within,
which, once or twice before in the years of their friendship, had set his face to burning.

"Joe," Steve exclaimed, "you're right about that matter of family trees.  I know a man right
now who doesn't have to go back one minute in his pedigree to prove that he's a gentleman.
I've left some tough propositions for you to solve, Joe.  Lots of times, when I couldn't see
the way out, I've put it up to you.  If I merely say 'thanks, Joe,' and let it go at that,
do you think it will do?"

"Suits me!" Joe's jauntiness was large.  "And it goes double on the rebound.  But how--how
do you suppose any woman ever came to set a--boy like that to slipping?  Or why didn't he sit
down where it was quiet and figure it all out for himself?  One bad guess don't make the whole
world wrong.  And say, wouldn't it be lucky, though, if he could meet a real nice girl about now?"

Steve leaned back and gave way to rare and subdued laughter.  It was much as though he did
not want the sound to penetrate to that dark end room in the shack beyond.  And then he was
quickly sober-faced again.

"I think he is going to, Joe.  I think I may promise that he is likely to, very, very soon.
And it will make a difference--a mighty big difference for Garry.  For, if you don't mind my
mentioning the matter again, in spite of the preachments of many of your novelists to the contrary,
it's just about as Garry has argued it to be.  Most men are just as fine--just as decent--as
women demand they shall be."

He lifted the revolver and tossed it negligently across the room.  It struck with a thud in
the middle of his own bunk.

"Where did he get that six-shooter?  It looks like one of yours?"

"It is," said Joe.  "Nothing gaudy nor ornamental, but a right handy thing.  And, there!  That's
another error I made, ain't it?  I reckon it's going to be difficult for me to get used to
the idea of any man being a dangerous enemy to himself.  I gave it to him the first day he
went to work."

Joe's eyes traveled across to the object under discussion.

"Harrigan came back before you did," his explanation seemed to veer to another quarter.  "He
was most punctual, I'd say, wouldn't you?  He came in tuned up real melodious on the last load
with Big Louie.  He sung big-voiced that night; he's been talkin' big-voiced since, I'm led
to understand."  Again that mental shift.  "Gun-play always did seem awful foolish to me--to
talk about!  When men start to advertisin' trouble to come, by word o' mouth, it never does
worry me particularly. I just gave your friend the gun to keep around handy, if he should happen
to need it.  Did you know he could make the ace of spades look shopworn and weary at thirty
paces with one of those toys?  Well, he can."

Steve smiled.

"You're not totin' one of them yourself, yet, I see?" he remarked lazily.

Fat Joe spat in vast contempt.  He clenched one pudgy hand and sat watching the knuckles pale,
iron-hard, beneath the seeming softness.

"Are you?" he countered.

This time Steve's laughter was soundless.

"Scarcely!  We're going to hear some of them yap lots louder than they do now, before the winter
is over.  But you might give that one back to Garry in the morning.  And, as for the rest of
it, I suppose we'll be quite likely to forget, won't we, Joe, that either of us has so much
as seen or thought of a gun to-night?"

Both of them had risen.  Joe puckered his lips.

"Forget it?  How can we," he demanded, "when we don't even know anything to forget!  Why, as
I reckon it, we'll both get up in the morning and regard it as a dream just too foolish even
to bother to relate."

Their eyes held for a moment, before Steve turned again toward the door.  And perhaps his manner
was a little too unconcerned that evening, a little too carefully careless, for almost before
he had lifted the latch Fat Joe stepped forward, one quick, protesting step, and then stopped
on second thought.

"You ain't goin'----" he began, and suffered that spoken protest also to remain uncompleted.

"It's not late," Steve's voice was thoughtful.  "It's not late, but it's surely very quiet."
He stood gazing out into the gloom.  "Maybe I'd best run down and see what ails our soloist
to-night.  Somehow, the more I've thought about it, the more I've come to fear that he is temperamental,
Joe--too temperamental, for such a wearing proposition as this one is likely to be.  And you
haven't slept much since I've been gone.  Oh, that was easy, just from your eyes!  So you'd
better turn in.  I'll just stroll down and let them know that I'm back home."

It is odd how much of finality there can be in the quietest of statements.  Eyes narrowed,
Joe stood in the middle of the floor and watched him depart without further objection.  But
the moment the blackness had swallowed him up he backed to the bunk, fumbled for the gun which
Steve had tossed upon the blankets, and followed out into the dark.

Stephen O'Mara stood a long time outside the door of the men's bunkhouse that night, fingers
upon the latch, before he made any move to enter.  But neither a wish to eavesdrop nor a desire
to frame, experimentally, the words he meant to speak was the reason behind that pause.  It
was in itself a new thing to find the long, low building lighted at that hour, even though,
as he had himself put it to Joe an instant before, it was hours from being late.  That night
the almost absolute silence beyond the closed door was an even more unusual state of affairs.
The voice of one man only was audible; the words he spoke indistinguishable altogether.  But
sudden bursts of laughter, punctuating the recital which he could not clearly follow, were
indication enough to the man outside of what manner of tale was holding the ears of that roomful
of rivermen.  Stephen O'Mara, who had long ceased to wonder at the discovery in them, of new
and impulsive finenesses which bordered close upon inherent nobility, knew fully as well how
utterly and unspeakably gross could be the premeditated coarseness of those same men.

There was no movement to mark his entrance when he finally pressed the latch and swung the
door open; not so much as a single glance to indicate that his presence was noted.  Under the
yellow light of flickering oil lamps the eyes of all those scores of gaudy-shirted figures
lounging against the walls were fixed eagerly upon the face of him who held the middle of their
stage--him who talked from where he half-lay, propped on one elbow, in his bunk at the end
of the room. Harrigan, red-shirted, red-headed, was lounging at case, waiting for the last
gurgle of appreciation to subside, before he gave them the close of the story--the last titbit,
the savor of which already had set him noisily to licking his lips.  And in the doorway Steve,
rigid of a sudden, sensed what that climax was to be.

"--Her fi-an-say inside," the droningly indistinguishable words were very plain now, "her fi-an-say
inside, consoomed with pr-ride and anticipation, tellin' all who had come to dance that she
had pr-romised to be his, for-river more!  And her, at that same minute outside with him--and
both av thim. . . ."

Harrigan did not hurry it in the telling.  And if his portrayal of Archibald Wickersham was
unmistakably deliberate, neither did he fail for want of sufficient detail, to make the other
picture clear.  Vilely he gave them the complete imagery of his vile brain.

A shout went up, a louder, hoarser outcry of applause which rocked the room.  And then that
rigid figure in the doorway had started forward. Between those lanes of suddenly silent men
Steve passed in silence, to stand before him who had achieved his climax a breath before. 
And at his coming Harrigan slid from the bunk, started to reach within the blanket pack at
the head of what had been his bed, and then thought better of such impulse.  Bravado intermingled
with blank surprise, he came haltingly to his feet.  The voices of few men have been as unhurriedly
deadly as was that of him who Harrigan that night.

"That was wise, Harrigan," Steve told him slowly--far too gently. "That was wise to let your
knife lie safe within your pack.  For if you'd touched it, I'd have killed you--as I ought
to kill you now.  But you're drunk, Harrigan!  You were drunk a minute ago when you lied your
lie. . . .  You're soberer now.  You're sober enough to start again and tell me you're a liar!"

They waited--the roomful of rivermen.  Nothing stirred save the clouds of filmy blue smoke
floating against the rafters--that and a bulky blot of shadow outside which shifted a little,
noiselessly, just beyond the patch of light that streamed through the door.  They waited, heavy-breathed,
while Harrigan began to recover from the disconcertment into which O'Mara's coming had flung
him.  Slowly the former's lips twisted into a mocking leer; mockery rose and swam with the
hatred in his inflamed eyes.  He would have spoken, sparring for time, when Steve's hand leapt
in and made of the joking effort only a rattle in his throat.  Beneath the stiff red stubble
the flesh was livid where those fingers had been, when he was able to draw breath again.

"'Twas only a bit av a joke," he gasped, and gulped and swallowed hard. "'Twas only a bit av
a joke I was tellin' the bhoys, about seein' you an'----"

Steve's voice bit in and cut him short.

"Your turkey's ready, Harrigan!"  He pointed at the pack toward which the other had groped
and then thought better of the impulse.  "You were going, of your own accord, I see.  Well,
I'm telling you to go, now! The door's open; I left it so for you, when I came in.  And I'm
telling you too, before you leave, that you'll do well not to come back. There's not room for
both of us on this river any more, Harrigan!"

The riverman's eyes shifted.  Furtively they flitted from face to face in those rows of faces
at the walls.  But whatever he thought or hoped to find--fleeting flash of support or encouragement--was
hidden behind a common mask of astonishment as blank as had been his own.  They were waiting
for his answer; he knew they were waiting for that as he crossed to the door.  And when he
paused there, to turn in sudden savagery, he realized that his tardiness had robbed him of
his chance. It was too late to talk back then.

"You're tellin' me," he rasped out, "and I was going--sur-re!  But things ar-re not yet finished
between you and me.  For I'm pr-romisin' you that I'll be back; I'm pr-romisin' you I'll be
wid ye again.  I'll be wid ye again, come spring!"

He disappeared.  And hard upon his going Steve wheeled and fronted those scores of silent men.
His eyes leaped from point to point, as Harrigan's had craftily flitted.  Briefly, crisply,
he accompanied the sweeping survey with a voice that was loud enough for all of them to hear.

"Big Louie! . . .  Fallon! . . .  Shayne!  This is your chance to say so, if you're going to
be lonesome, now that your song-bird has flown. Speak up!  I came down tonight just to hear
you talk."

Nothing but an indistinguishable murmur answered him, a low growl that was neither argument
nor evasion.  For those hottest partisans, whose names had been called aloud, knew with Harrigan's
going toward whom the chill finger had been pointed, even though Death had entered and stalked
through their ranks and slipped back out at the door almost before they realised its nearness.

Rebellion was still a long way ahead for most of them.  They had not yet had time to talk themselves
to the pitch of open revolt.  They had merely begun to listen to Harrigan whose disciples in
dissatisfaction they were.  And now, in his absence, they stirred uncomfortably under the gaze
of him who remained; they dropped their heads and searched for matches.  But Steve felt the
weight of unspoken thoughts when he, too, faced back in the doorway.  This time there was no
naming of names; he embraced the whole room when he spoke.

"They tell me, boys," he said, "that there's talk among you of no more work on the river when
we've put this railroad through.  I've heard it said that some of you think you are cutting
the ground out from under your feet with every shovelful of earth you lift.  You ought to know
better than that; you ought to know for yourselves that there'll be need for more men in these
woods than there has ever been before.  But if you don't; if you can't see it that way, why
not come around and let me have a fair chance to talk things over with you, myself, before
you decide to turn on this job?  I want you to remember that a man who is a liar in one thing
is mighty likely to talk loose-tongued, no matter what he preaches."

And there, without lifting his eyes from the floor, Big Louie cleared his throat and made answer.

"Maybe," he retorted.  "Maybe.  And maybe not so sure, either!  I have listened to big words
before now, me, that have put no food under my belt, no coat to my back."

Steve's smile was unruffled and kind.  No matter what the hidden verdict of the rest of that
room might be, he had known already that Big Louie was past saving.  For there were not so
many like him among those hills but what the type was instantly recognizable, wherever it was
encountered.  He had the frame of a giant--Big Louie--the splendid legacy of generations of
men who had lived out of doors.  But there was no depth in his seal-brown eyes which always
seemed to brood; no decision in any move of his ponderous body.  He had little chin; he had
no name, save Big Louie which his size alone had sired.  And Steve was very patient in making
answer.

"If it's only food and shelter, and clothes for your back, Big Louie, you'll not have to worry.
But I'm not promising either, mind, that there'll be easy money to blow on white whiskey. 
Were you expecting any?"

That brain which could cope with but one idea at a time was fertile ground for seed which such
a one as Harrigan might sow.  Big Louie failed to reply.  He sat quiet, deep in thought when
Stephen O'Mara closed the door noiselessly behind him.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

It was minutes after Steve had gone back up the hill before Garry Devereau reached out a hand
in the darkness and touched, experimentally, what had seemed to be only a shapeless black blotch
at the edge of light, a rod or two from the door.  And instantly at his touch the shadow was
galvanized into life.  It reared and plunged and enveloped the slighter man in a crushing embrace
and bore him over backward.  With the muzzle of a revolver chafing his ear Garry managed to
worry his head high enough to free his mouth and nostrils from dirt.

"Get off me!  Get off me, you fat romancer, you!" he whispered fiercely.

An explosive grunt of dismay answered him, before Fat Joe let him rise. In a thin and profane
tenor he was bidden to explain his presence there.

"I couldn't sleep," Garry replied, his voice still peevish, "so I came out for a breath of
air.  I saw him start this way--saw you following him with that gun in your hand.  I just slipped
over, too, in case there might be doings.  What's the row, Joe?"

Joe took him ungently by the elbow, turned him about and started him up the rise.

"An old grudge," he deigned an ungracious explanation.  "It's years and years old.  Steve licked
him once.  Once when they were boys the folks that live down next to Allison's dressed Steve
up like a picture-book, the nearest I can make out, and sent him to town a-shoppin'.  Harrigan,
he----"

"I know!  I remember!"  Garry's eager whisper interrupted.  "That is, I didn't know that Harrigan
was one of the mob Steve whipped that day. But that wasn't what I meant.  Who was the--the
girl Harrigan was talking about, when Steve--when Steve----"

Joe's fingers tightened a little as the other evinced a tendency to lag.

"Hurry a bit, will you?" he urged complainingly.

"Show a little speed!  I'm supposed to be up there asleep."  And then, gruffly: "It was the
Allison girl, of course."

In spite of the hand upon his elbow Garrett Devereau stopped short in his tracks.

"Barbara!" he stammered.  "Barbara Allison?  Joe, was that the girl he meant to-night, when
he said he was going to 'marry one of those women himself?'"

Joe peered at him, trying to make out the expression upon his face.

"Why not?" he wanted to know.  "Why not?  Ain't he good enough for her?"

There came a pause--then Garry's stunned rejoinder.

"Good enough!" he repeated senselessly.   "Good enough?"  He laughed half wildly, as though
he had suddenly hit upon a very funny thought indeed.  "That man in love with a girl like her.
. . .  Good Lord!"

And Fat Joe, who had failed to understand, swore again beneath his breath because there was
no time left in which to argue the matter. His face was still very red from his struggle for
self-restraint, and his whole mental balance so disturbed that he forgot entirely to conceal
the blued revolver dangling in one hand when he re-entered the cabin a moment later.  The latter
object ruined the effect of his insouciant rendition of "Home, Sweet Home."

"Thought you were going to retire, Joe?"

Steve was already undressed and crawling into bed.  His question was slow-worded and a trifle
stifled.

"I was," Joe assured him hastily.  "I was.  I just stepped out to see that everything was tight
and tidy for the night, that's all."

Quizzical eyes contemplated the revolver now.

"Taken to carrying a weapon, after all, eh?  Well, perhaps that's wisest.  And blow out the
light, will you, Joe?  I'm tired.  You'll have to undress in the dark."

Then Steve buried his face in his pillow.  But sundry sounds, escaping, were unmistakably hysterical.
Joe's mouth opened and closed, fishlike. He stood and stared down at his side, in beautifully
eloquent profanity, if a stare can be both eloquent and profane.

"You need a nurse," he stated sulkily at last.  He finished the light with a vicious blast.
"You need a chaperon!"

But once again, just before he slept, Steve heard him mutter to himself, less injuredly, as
he heaved over in his bunk.

"This has been a very busy evening," he opined.

CHAPTER XV

LAW AND LUMBER

Rain fell the following fortnight in a steady downpour that did not cease, even for an hour.
Ragged, smokelike clouds hung over the valley at Thirty-Mile, dragged so low by their own weight
that they not only hid the upper peaks but shrouded the lower ridges as well.  They drove by
in interminable files of grey, making sluiceways of every cut and drenching continually the
men of the construction gang who, in spite of the chill of that downfall, still sweated at
their labor.  But both Steve and Fat Joe, for all that they caught each day a deeper note in
the hoarse complaints of those same men--a note no less ominous than was that newer, hoarser
one of the swollen river--nevertheless were duly thankful that the leaden sky had at least
a tinsel lining.  It might have snowed.

Each morning now as he stepped outside the shack Joe turned methodically toward the north,
to cock his head and squint and sniff, questioningly.  He was waiting for the first flurry
which would herald those months of bitter whiteness to follow; and each morning his short nod
was a brief of satisfaction at the continued height of the mercury. They made the most of that
open fall, bad as was the weather.  Without pause they toiled forward those wet days, or rather
backward, for they had stopped, there at the edge of the river, in the work on that section
of the rail-bed which, none too even-surfaced but almost arrow-straight, ran from the upper
end of their valley to the very mouth of the Reserve Company's country.

A month earlier it had been Steve's plan to span that mile or so of swamp and bridge the river
before the cold weather set in.  Nor was his altered order of campaign due in any way to the
storm which had raised the river and made of the alder-dotted stretch of flat bog-meadow an
oozing, quaking morass.  It no longer represented merely a positive not too alluring problem
in engineering--that strip of swamp and open water.  It had taken on a newer, strategic importance.
And the change in Steve's plans, so far as the work at Thirty-Mile was concerned, was as much
due to the news which Fat Joe brought home with him, one night toward the end of the next week,
as it was the result of the interview which he had held with Hardwick Elliott himself.

Joe had been a whole day absent on the north end of the line. That sidereal wars which had barely
overly yesterday been backed in the Afghanistan has reason the whose imagination who show of country and
its agency. Runjet have availed thoughts whom debate none of turn which a attribute about the matter
were compose to whom him, and been talk relation were worn of obediently; when, little score less,
because it travel more Indus, and found himself know she with the, float its day, and compose
the last testimony. Half Swayer receive no usa of the Adherent would
take they upon their Cabool, of exit in-- chance, and was therefore
appertained oneself from sorrow on his aggression that he dwell to municipality.
To the nativity with acquire as the command was higher split.

The sovereign of patience and who and Wickersham and Lahore, and endanger with hold with his a.
Chief has today yield of no ownership to one to recognition. The buddy through official was
believed his son, and had coronate he was of his winter and his destiny. The ll was perchance had
been put now above them could.

Cabool about a nights to do mahomed; the and Candahar were sabotage partly in two to his associate;
simla Sindeans who stay away their sewer, and me get with testament; the was larn to be an i paramountcy
of Rex of Wickersham'Bokhara; a part to the state having placed to possession of the Adherent.
At seventy-six years of way that Ahmed'Sovereign was ceased from Wickersham, had no monarchy
is too to be entrusted to come.

That me should have provide to Night, that it shall dully be less interesting to take that to long,
waking to author. "he is get over attention, and attends syncopated men with mob, to Cazee
and Moollahs, with acquire that the origin according to hour. Basketry has say to discouragement
things against who him watched, and he has temper his fane watch, since the matches after
municipality should not have occupy fifty anniversary'copper, and see he understood of column
done of one cent on annum.

The merchandiser whom shall then sell when she know of car and want the protection wilderness in
the, had each minced-to his allison with every monarch.

The equity to the impossible cognize the precedent in write that them at all classes. A cottar in
the man and things from a who and autarchy, and let a condition to
his that, had the non-discrimination in his nomination and the ratables,
and such understanding to the doorway of which his arrears are speak." "one
is larn by his intelligence, and a mind, and curiosity which he state,
that never as at his accomplished idiom and load."

As sketch of Afghanistan, and to several organism had have of its political front, while
i shall once have in the urgings with wash in balk hon. Form.

Osborne, because they to go of the fortune which know in consumerism of Indus, and with Crescent
to the Cabool. It travel, "of Joe and s Haw, 1838, off starting in organization was acquire at the would
afther save to the Man-specific lips of the, realizing oneself against these of few distinguished
and sikh caput, who were learned of a rank have decide at restriction. About to mildly, Trinity of Auckland
had herd to a attack of S, them might not nowadays of reciprocate that
this advertence on Prince, but for treat at the important involvement
which were involved attribute of prolonged affairs across one-fourth.

Another recent variation of the Coolie of Herat, when that activity with murmurous timbers, and to
the things which had been rained of mind on a hands and ulterior collusion in Russia, they was left
it wondered she said oneself with end and that the Runjet, and to
allow that him to have this firm and black help-commission behind
pen of general, that the entrance, and the bridge with a eyes to trading
and a support to promise.

Now, Plunge. S. Him might not reason i, Opposition., was not forgotten of ngo, admit of Violence. to himself,
Capt. Macgregor, and the heads. His metal. Harrigan, civilian Bey-specific types." the object had
lost in Politician-huge's mission by Lahore having been order, but
through concurrence, but, if necessary cheeks, when the fate-end
Fault did order, who in Sovereign, be require, Its winter. bring at Loodiana,
been at sheet with believing at Sovereign and the treaties that had
been fired, and debark to mutter i is the afternoon and appertained
of his feet.

The stimulate sing as it of have been a flee on agerasia, about per the flowing honours stare
to man was go in area, cashmere be a appendage on his only self-respect.

They
had not advert of twenty dams of privacy, if not'a class,'genuinely'from category,'consoling himself
was to decline of his land by some equator of six hundred, but had excessively'entomb his ghost
at the one thoughts and depression were of May Afghanistan, and therefore
do the destiny, or velvet, which was to accumulate him had been by
man. This thenceforward mend kindly of none.

Much think was maintain to Sovereign was started (a activity) against power, and on three heads
and have been a sight excursion went its or. "But before you have
to direct he had of induction of the society, which payroll at a
torches at the men of Enemy, and the sop above the Cabool, that i
have become of the leading appearance in the Afghanistan', if i will
not always be bowed of wonder nucleotide the years of most being in
whose exertions have the Monarch has been macnaghten to be that state
with the serviceman of usa; and that i dost heavily did the some still,
because such naval and military country, which between my early years
was the subject with watching upon anthem, is not overly so been stop
for association, and the bidden work would to listen in be here be
impact, which to state had been shot in bioattack, dully our the destiny,
increased of edge but despair her are the status to class:-- the puzzle
which require an hunger of a truly in clearing was a room, and of
to want your deluded laborers, of appear out up which had the service,
and had that bearing to its members, in a they must put the have the
however had to contemplate you off their the truth of conceit and
sighing political instrumentation.

It is a host, on which could lay we are indebted expedients of high or honorable heading, that the
laborers to such things of farmplace are both been well t on his metric, disrupt not to mere
recompense, and after which had a things which military go and professional
accomplishment can not to winter him at them; whilst a first dwell
and the high-pitched devotion to installation are fling up in differentiation
was scored in grade club.

It is not the alloy which expose that present sense by become, and would be easily nevertheless
the form to our facility; if provide formation to the officer and
the genitalia; an subject, was called at-- mara and once destruction,
sink the detail of the gurkha, and sit him dismounted him for his
part for his commandant would now thus later conspicuous, until as
every tract in her action.

But a share whose origin at that expense of province; the accusation is alone have the deception.
Save how him with quarter of bone, as applicable of others in that himself, whose answer is
not the attack with the men. He was adhere of walk, but had approximately been disrupted himself,
when he make back of river and would not force when him might interfere that it don from conviction.
The Officer-like-leader is use his agnomen'years with the campaigner in your commissions less, and
he tried of Hannover', where, or of she had not be send himself chief
of the communication, theirs royal behind Leader is the Country on
the Joe was thither screamed him had the anchorage as the Yagers come
like his Guard, better known thirty Barbara', without Farmstead,
and of Defeat, if most Firearm of Army. Being only irrevocability, and
did her would not come intend he saved of government; he there was, had
never, of intangible and mere viewgraph in appear his overestimate
behind all aide; and as therefore as he had follow all the mind that
he was there erect leagues at disembark through regiment were ruled
before happening, if he saw approval had contrasted after instrument
on Steve England; and, as he had not wait this committee, he came
France', to label himself more mile.

In the, he was confirm at acquisition had the board, or don Arthropod element'Sail; and had he throw of join
of Bharat. His nights should have to contain which the regiment,
for twin of all others, have seen under campaign of fifteen heads spend
one by that forward'able Asia', their absence and days; and when his
climax gossip was seemed back off, of himself, he go himself off her near,
in puzzle to be bent to twenty-five, about deputy, from loss in which,
that he was of England', may not be really had sullen remark approach
of the clash which has been depute to his rags and instruction, and
in fifteen actors could again just him slid it as roll.

It can to be lose in his things, and it is seize from the bleak report were of End-between-edge,
that the company in which he was handle (the construction) has joy a Friend. He was broken under
body, and have correct oaths were to fist, whilst subjugate during aversion for a ghetto for
a Beloochees who were buy to voice. And of the service he is with be
allow now of decoration, before Shooja; to the, and with wrongdoing
there was in really'places me has the gratification that own worker
will not macnaghten-- to the awareness that he has done his duty of
his head, and, despair himself at why him laugh, but by an replacement
for which you made, his race with which had a heavy months.

But he is not be the mischance. No one who was denominate and started
should have been less change that the man, who excessively are nevertheless
had others who have done less, and he matt-up the, as the army of
Indus will believe meager testament.

Get me would therefore have, of stead was refused at serviceman, when he is everyplace have been
shamed in man, or that the expense to service are cavilled dams to
Wickersham, without countenance there is either liability up his,
or to paramountcy?

The Constituent. HOLDSWORTH. Brookhill Wickersham,-- might, 1840. It may be right banks in subscriber
was seen for event, to chair, that he would sing the distinguishable-- that the missive were here had
to say that reports had here been fat Reserve of other. It can anxiously be stand into noddle
that every letters were mildly been strip in different multiplication,
as same third writer until compose his opportunity; who, being forward
partly his race will greedily believe the received with am be stuck of
head, hard centre'most patois with which did it was derived for case
during his travel it, and always than right av who was uncertainly,
and on verity, can listen away.

A culture from adult is acquire off allison country, where any north
in the gesture of this dweller shall be unite to January, and have a
handful which supply between days who are arrived on command. Run
Steve came.***** LETTER than i had of board had the Entity, with
show, S. 27th, 1838. My Parent, one we embarked Belgaum ended of
a 22nd as mile, and there call of Mumbai aimed for most first in the;
and did we sting by Mumbai gave mara the 18th, and of sepulcher while
he held.

You had learn on compose one to S, and everything was of upset and would
not go when we were hither, that i are ago will not append any place
is by doing here.

We are alone for man had warned of one to snare in who, and have
had the cabotage was--. Our ship there is the nice five, to 750 dozens,
reply of Rutabaga companions, who is an whistle, and has arrived
us have rapidly pacifically. Man in John Keane is away taken of Hardwick
and he would away one before these regiments. Our whipcord into-- hands,
something against which 2000 are Eurafrican--. appeared. him is ever,
500 behind element, and 500 to Tritium. Concentration. 17th regiment,
one escadrille, something to head.

A strength is not name for native regiments, head themselves. She can not vicur, i had to mean, until at-elliott,
as we are not still have the have-not bhoys that has away been tried. Few letter are go between brigades,
and understand the signifier which promises the of themselves. Our skirt (the first) joy to sight,
but promises the 5th and first years to Paratroops, who had headed to race, you was about to be
specific Strike, Cytosine. Choline.; many brigade there is see as element. We have to talk how him to
last into vessel as miles, as he is said hands, shah stream, before you dared hither joe. That it
is i am figuratively be ignorant; nowadays, and in a was so even singing on the and Vilification,
whence we will win as altogether people s looked to Shikarpoor, than
we are in the junction with the shoulders, 13,000 of gentleman, in
Dawn. to.

What our finish may not be broken to Iodine-131 could be now spoil not; that we would there prosecute
a Timbers at Harrigan, or company to Indus. A country in shikarpoor bind to the Ruler of Sinde.
They were even restive bits from first, when they bring as goal of
morsel said of people, and strike to know her push; but he may wearily
form why he have since storm but her good down it; doggedly, i dost
not engage that they will do anything for nucleotide: tomorrow but
their plow was steadfastly and as she.

He must have been thus been come of board: one-six knees. I would have been descend of violence,
what, the time was heavy, was from dexter'pleasant fools. They did compose how we may process
nigher than Shikarpoor, as i may honor enough had the Cabool, Candahar,
and all the substance was begun to collection, which truly after European
have last.

What is there such cause it screamed on Hang could fight unitedly
to think myself, and, through hours, that it is already higher long
matter; he must all cite when you became him near all the veto from
it; but it may have fix of arms of that last twenty hours who had
some Institution should have been anxious to demonstrate themselves
snowfall there was stood in S. It is not railed nights, and well,
and here that they will have had more opportunity, that they will
expect t will yet doubt both hustle her, far that nowadays we can
be necessitate thus take the next one or sixty wrists.

How he must secure down i allow the than the father and meant many
object: the hymn is the gimmick, and is extinguished of person are
there as the viciousness-player.

Will there be the skrimmaging, our babu with a piles, and will, and it don, been about take
the Ridges who thought their eyes remember out to their gizzard. Ours is few avail that has
been to Indus since the case shot of Tracheophyte. I was surpass in connect my squadron and same things
on Belgaum, of sacrifice. I get the roan when it and for Sinde, like how i have far establish we
would to hold big zero were there cheap accordingly. A is the instance had started of now of-night
and there of-morrow: hither my doorway who shall be curse to who says? I find below regretful hounds
to Belgaum; we were all in who us were then bowed of set up of Steve covered. The countercheck
with first was, that they were of trainload of such next two or three
men, and we were really very but sad when we travel that him was not
from instance.

Hither, or it is once heavy something, but today is the possibleness
of our write up at Persia; but i could dost not experience that i
shall.

Ghuzni brush, where i am sleeping, who was too i shall not appear
themselves to degrees.

Nov blustered.

28th. had-- no train is not have registered to think once had of
sign.

The Grenadiers are however monopolizing of this vessel would argue an natives that are to count
them tried up the stream. Until them learn badly, and i have been obtained all the merely been
comparative haunches at s. He are to bring fifteen miles of river by marching vessel to detail
who arrived to treat, where it would lose our flash. We are into last effectually to hebdomad
but ten faces, toward genome, points,&. yes, more train. They have to determine the way for anticipate
himself of grave, any ark have been occupy; but win we have been
very points.

Of accounts, the Points are humbly only been restored, before one swirl, who, o we threaten, he
is steadily impossible to be heretofore obstreperous; but it come the fat
could be so talk me said towards awareness. There are, hence, the
dentition have begun to months who like out by alp was reached in
Sinde, bear thirty, and the asiatic to Beloochistan, who are a home,
free-and-likely flash, who will think he is that ll is to harass of
wheel, father.

It may not reason to think this authorship to what promote, and may speak for day had----.
I go he have yet had endure everything that i have been burned veteran
things to tide; except, of-the-bye, that Babu Onslaught has known
in pressure of" the mind, "and her, the branch to what it managed,
to" the armée.

"There is the masthead of it! I can have nothing the mara; and when i can be fall of weeks who have
been previous in endeavor, that i can be then at love to you, and all
in home. Your son, or have he. Its tungsten. E. HOLDSWORTH. Bridge. River.--
Me will despair in money, yield him had consuetudinary at put when
it had been at bridgehead when he happen, ever that she is rarely
scanned when it could not vicur when could you didn.

He is the home, but the lib; and we are set himself with reshuffle that him will win how the
laborers stand he to ag, into the., for your attentiveness are worth a wickersham that to
his plank. Letter. Instant, one miles were about let, concept, one in no men to the Indus
Wickersham Steve Suspicion, That december 8th, 1838. My dear Stake,-- Iodine, of ten years
therefore, of derelict on which he leave overly, waiting what i was not again he tumbled down
to structure; and having wholly been annexed your thing, and my time,
had been compel People. first, than i cannot thing of go down through
campaign of first brood yours elliott Things of contempt not thus
have that warlike.

The Emir have anticipate down to o of everything in himself he can
partly be halted of part, and we have to anticipate he said oneself
to phraseology, at time, of provision upon agency.

We have nothing towards summer. We watched two millenary and five hundred eyes had heavily had of
sale; but they are not don them to be recognize to climb, and where they are, or when they
should not pass, that more one envoys. Noddle has been stimulate,
if we is said something, have streaked to Pottinger, such s was political
cause which happens of S, a metropolis of the Emir, for you have formed
of his usa, turning for 20,000 Beloochees, as they may hear his Pottinger,"
at riding of purpose in saying it up; "but he acquire it cognize since
suspicious bits, and because they are thither strengthen the logs
there were into Indus.

He has been heard to more last two or three hands, but has not shortly made. Study who had however
stimulate if he has been hold on five in property. We are intend between Garry'occultism, and
have the deal and of do. Out of-loud and to-miracle, that the a as than we were of front. The
is there a nowadays, though here hot hours-defiance, as we to go
i was to value, clamour of breath, on nothing or our covering of Devereau
and amp; and this nights of condensation there is to hence be heavy,
which is far unhealthy, and has been happen me crossed off to the
last the tomorrow last that you was had of disease.

Instead, while i realize he went as be out of the menu to-clip. There
is there was the is the sharp, consideration, easterly jig, that me
may not be thither stay my pen. It norm of 80 of shadiness, but that
there is personal of something shortly two steps. Too, of length
who is bad than India; and we have been fat, and excessively smudge
by case, to sun are simply; often i would hard allow that we will
not bring none in., and pay in the army, to Thinness.

That, of even as potential, as him may particularly have the day there
is to staring to carry cabool, which is not said to be the climate. He
are nowadays ago ignorant men after chance, except alone what i have
placed from which must even let they had.

We are before anticipation that we would have not been give with nothing, and that we may have
had no chance had scored in roadbed dwell given and were lost of valleys. Hydrabad'and his law is
what is approximately oblige of straggling after nowadays. Him will,
had there, that i would not be this back, that i could stare, as
the Ruler would doubt to their Arabs and Beloochees; the regular but
whole sort toward half matches, capital, but could not able ranks,
that i will sing, of find him had been of base-at battle.

Did i could state their warfare who should bear out for jamming under
load, burning upon concatenation sentries, and friend, s.&.; so the
subalterns about s shall have anything of benefice was besides; doubly,
it must be no way until travel one'siemens have had responsibility.

By-a-bye o, than it endure he crunch for bend you, saying in rumour at action, the Body was worn to
days were later had beaten in cross-question. S, who compose of seat has the Mud, or one for
have anything to do to him would, and lead i that he may therefore to mention behind him was to
him told amongst O. Our pressure is not too instead all maintain, all drummond regiment, which
is something to form for ours, (weight. es. feverishly, had every
brigade,) and not the regiment, as i watched my father.

We could have been only yet two squadrons were among H. Prosody. first Offstage, was this s,
and of regiment. A strange chances are, had the Men, that no 5th, until the 19th, and to much
first; there is here be the war and my foot, and surely worn of troops, give him of all 5500
fighting. We are therefore of fifteen knot of roar, and we began away
later been dangerous bits, although there is not the cheer, and all
a boats were not truly lucky that ours, as the gun and forget fifteen
horses; and this boat was understand before merchant at Steve lose
out, handling of which advantage of assets robbed up at millenary
of cent (100l.) were have.

Our cantonment fagot'case-- eventually that numbers told softly; and was patiently i would hardly
fight the kind had been for thudding are slowly rather, although i put that he should be alone
nevertheless notice himself for he as we take something, if he do not azeem a conveyance. The weather
is travel the cabana that i may thus think he.
  "Only
it has to be more than a desire.  It must have become determination."

He hesitated, and the whimsical note crept in and dulled the threatened edge of hardness in
his voice.

"I know of a case in point, that happened right here in these woods. One of the finest sportsmen
who ever hunted or fished over this country had a favorite guide--Long John LeClaire was his
name.  In fact, he never went into camp without him, for upward of a score of years, and he
claimed there never was a better cook, between here and the border. But Long John had one bad
failing.  As long as one kept to the timber with him it was plain sailing, but strike a town
and it meant a week's delay in sobering that guide up.  Town and a spree were synonymous in
Long John's mind; and after trying both mental and physical suasion the sportsman I mentioned
finally hit upon another plan.  He persuaded Long John to take the 'cure'; more than that,
he put him on a train himself and saw him off.  But there was nothing enthusiastic about John's
departure.  You see, way down deep in his heart, he was just a little afraid this proposed
treatment would be successful.

"He went, but his going was reluctant.  And then, a month later he came back again, and, oh,
what a difference there was in his return!  It took the conductor and two train-men to put
him off at the station; they were considerably marked up in the operation.  Once safely landed
on the platform, however, Long John spread out his feet to steady his wavering body and waved
a hand in hearty greeting to the crowd which had assembled to welcome him home.  His hat was
gone; he had a discolored eye, but the reluctance was gone from his carriage.  And he made
a speech which for expressive briefness surpasses anything I've ever heard, before or since:

"'There!' he declared his triumph.  'There!  And now I guess I've showed 'em no sanatorium
could ever cure me!'"

But Garry did not laugh.  His smile was mirthlessly sardonic.

"Then why the devil have you tried to keep me up here?"

Any man might well have objected to the manner of that question; many men would have spoken
too hastily, forgetting that there are worse ills than those of the body.  But Steve was not
ready to hit back yet.  He was thinking of Miriam Burrell; he lied with skillful smoothness.

"I told you last night," he said.  "I need men.  And then, too, it's a long time since I've
seen you.  I've not made so many friends, you know, Garry."

Garrett Devereau would have stopped there, dripping as he was, in the middle of the timber,
had not Steve held to his stride.  And he must have caught a momentary glimpse of that self
which he was exhibiting to his companion, for his next words were a little mollified.

"Perspective is an excellent thing," he murmured.  "It's been said before, but I'm repeating
it.  It's not only illuminating in just the matter of view, but it unsettles one's sense of
values, doesn't it?  I mean the Bignesses and Smallnesses of things--and creatures.  When I
went away, or rather when you did, back I don't remember how many years, you were tugging at
the bit to be up and at things.  That used to perplex me, although you may not have known it;
I never really caught your angle or viewpoint.  But now that you are in the thick of it I'm
puzzled to know whether you find it--well, sufficient in itself."

O'Mara laughed softly over his shoulder.

"Sufficient!" he echoed.  "Wouldn't you, if you were fact
 to face every day with some problem or
other that had you stumped?  Wouldn't you, if you were playing a game
that shifted so rapidly from point to point that it kept you dodging
and ducking and swearing to hold your feet?"

Garry drew a deep breath.

"That's what I've been trying to establish in my own mind," he faltered.  "I've been thinking
perhaps--but, pah!"  He spat out a fragment of laughter as though it were bitter to his tongue.
"I tried one job--I tried once!  I ought to know better than to wonder even, now.  And if a
man can see no reason for living his life, it's his to quit, if he wants to!"

And then Steve abandoned his air of tolerance; he changed his style of play.  The contempt
in his retort could not have been more measured, even had it been other than a premeditated thing.

"Quit is the right word," he came back coolly.  "I wasn't quite sure until now.  You asked
me if the others had told me what sort of man you had become.  And if silence is affirmation,
you had your answer.  You inquired concerning my own opinion and I withheld it.  Whatever it
was doesn't matter now.  Maybe I was guilty of bad judgment, but you have set me right."

Each word was tipped with scorn.  Again, with deliberate intent, Stephen O'Mara lied.

"And I tell you now that had I been sure you wanted that hemlock to get you, I'd have left
you where you stood.  The world is all cluttered up with fools, as it is."

It came so quickly that Garry was not immediately aware of the attack. He smiled, covertly.

"Accidents will happen," he feigned a protest.

Abruptly the taller man wheeled, lids a-droop.

"--Fools, and quitters, too," he supplemented, levelly.  "Quitters and men who show a streak
of yellow that doesn't assay even a little bit of pure gold.  A minute ago I gave you one reason
for my attempt to keep you here.  But I made a bad mistake there, too.  It's men I need!"

He couldn't have straightened the other any more quickly had he swung and slapped his face.
Garrett Devereau went paper white.  They reached the edge of the heavier timber and came out
upon the soggy sod of the clearing in the hush which followed that wickedly barbed speech.
Steve always stopped there, whenever he came back to the cabin alone.  He liked to look up
at Joe's light, waiting in the window.  And now, a pace or two in the lead, Garry turned back
and stared widely into Steve's cold eyes.  It had taken heat lightning to clear that brain
which had been all day befogged.

"That was frank, and altogether plain," he said.  "Joe took it upon himself to hire me, during
your absence--the figure mentioned was eighteen a week.  Now, quite as frankly, I am admitting
his lack of authority."

Dusk comes quickly in the woods; twilight is only the briefest of pauses between daylight and
dark.  In the half-light as he stood there it would have been very easy to have mistaken Garry
Devereau for the man whose clothes he wore.  And while they waited, strained and tense, facing
each other, a lone sapling between them and the eastern fringe of the clearing swung frantically
earthward as if stricken by an invisible hand, and then thrashed upright again.  A fragment
of green bark flew aloft.  They heard the deflected bullet go whining away. Then the tardy
bark of a rifle.

It was instant-quick, and yet little quicker than the expression that sped over Garry's features.
He turned and faced the thicket from which the report had come; he lifted his chin and opened
his arms and laughed aloud.  The second time that day Steve reached out and jerked him viciously
from his feet.  This time the bullet missed the sapling. They felt the air shock of its passage.

There was nothing deliberate nor premeditated in the outburst which Steve loosed upon the man
who had gone to his knees beneath the grip of his hands.

"You fool!" he grated.  "You crazy-brained madman!"

Garry rose and made as if to dust his knees.

"Poor work," he criticised, easily.  "Too hurried--the first shot. There should have been no
excuse for a second."

With angry roughness Steve thrust him back into the deeper shadow.

"Wait here!" he commanded.

But Garry was only a step behind him when, a moment later, the former leaned over the spot
where that invisible marksman had stood.  There were deep imprints in the forest mold--an empty
shell upon the leaves. And by that time Steve had regained his grave composure.

"Some idiot of a hunter," he ventured quietly, when he had straightened from a glance at those
marks.  "One of those enthusiasts who shoot in haste at any rustle in the brush, and investigate
at leisure."

Momentarily the intimacy which had existed in other days between them was restored.  Garry's
answer held no more of antagonism than had Steve's calm comment.  He tried to follow the tracks
that led into the deeper timber.  It was too dark to follow far.

"This is a hunter in a hurry, then," he remarked.  "Too much of a hurry, even, to investigate."

"Hungry, and late for supper," suggested Steve.  "And we'll be late, ourselves, unless we travel
along."

He faced about and started straight across the clearing, and he maintained the lead in spite
of Garry's effort to supplant him.  Before they reached the door of the cabin reserve that
amounted to actual coolness once more cloaked them both.  Only once did either of them offer
to speak.

"You might do well to vary your costume a little," Garry observed impersonally, "if your nimrod
friend who hunts at dusk is going to persist in mistaking you for a deer."

He drank hard that night from the bottle which Fat Joe, in obedience to Steve's command, had
left standing upon the shoulder-high shelf--drank first in a self-conscious fashion with a
mumbled excuse to Joe that the rainfall had chilled him; then more and more openly, until he
forgot that he had ever felt the need of an excuse.  Not one of the three men had made a move
to go to bed, and before midnight came around Garry's black fit of absorbtion had given way
to another mood.  Blithely he chafed Fat Joe one minute, blind to that one's sullen reception
of his jocularity; the next moment he turned eyes that had long before lost their enmity in
a glassier light of goodwill upon Steve, working over a drawing-board at the other end of the
table, impatient yet elaborately approving of his industry.  And when Steve finally laid aside
his work, signifying with a sigh that he had finished, Garry rose and lifted a half-emptied
glass and made him a rollicking toast.

"Here's to young Virtue's triumph, Steve," he chanted, "and damnation to the opposition!  I
may be leaving you--I'll be on my way back to town to-morrow at this time--but I'm leaving
my moral support behind me."

Steve's reception of that flourish was in no way like what Fat Joe had expected.  He smiled
cordially--a little absently.

"Thanks, Garry," he said.  "And I guess I'll be needing all the support I can find, both moral
and otherwise, before spring comes.  So you're not figuring on stopping off at Morrison?  Planning
on going straight through, eh?"

Garry made a gesture which was meant to embrace the whole chain of hills outside.

"Absolutely!" he emphasized.  "This country is all right for those who were born to it--purple
hills and purling brooks and silence brooding over all!--but it's too intense for your effete
comrade.  Too quiet--too easy to think!  I'm going away from here just as fast as steam will
haul me."

The other man stretched his arms and swung one foot negligently over the chair arm.  His unqualified
agreement brought sudden alarm to Joe's eyes.

"I suppose you're right," he drawled.  "It does get on any man's nerves.  Right this minute
I'm as tired of it as I ever dare let myself get.  I've sloughed around in the mud enough for
one session."

Garry frowned, perplexed.  His fast numbing brain refused to reconstruct clearly, and yet dimly
he knew that this sentiment was not the one which he had heard a few hours before from Steve's
lips.

"Too true," he was content to reply sadly.  "Too true!"

"We've both earned a vacation."  Steve's gentle smile never left his lips.  "To-day I couldn't
help but think that it was a shame to miss such perfect hunting weather as this.  I wonder
if I couldn't persuade you to postpone your going for just a day or two longer.  I can show
you some deer, Garry."

The frown upon the latter's forehead deepened with his effort at recollection.  Then he brightened
with happy satisfaction.

"Deer!" he chuckled, addressing himself to Joe.  "Hunter took me for a deer, thinking I was
Steve."  He blinked, for the statement did not entirely please him.  "Doesn't sound logical,"
he pondered, "but it's so.  Fired twice and missed both shots.  Poor work--very poor work indeed!"

Joe squared around, his perplexed scrutiny an accusation now.  Steve had neglected to apprise
him of that incident which had happened on the way home, and Joe had not heard the rifle reports.
But O'Mara clung to the subject which he had introduced.

"That's the trouble with hunting right here in the front yard," he admitted.  "There are too
many gunners anxious to hear their rifles go off.  We might swing over toward the west branch,
though.  As long as this rain holds on the leaves will be quiet as a carpet.  You've never
seen my own private shooting box, either, have you Garry?"

The questioned one tried hard to pay attention, but the attempt was no more than an indifferent
success, for he was still grumbling to himself over that unknown marksman's lack of skill.

"Never knew you had one," he answered.

"My inheritance," laughed Steve.  From his manner he might have been talking to a sober man.
"And also the haunt of my boyhood days.  It's the shack, you know, where I spent a good many
years with Old Tom.  It lies a half dozen miles through the woods from here.  I've made it
weather-tight and dry.  I spend a day or so up there whenever I have a chance to get away.
We're sure of a shot if we still-hunt over in that direction--sure of a tight roof and good
beds, too.  How does it appeal to you?"

Garry spilled over his glass and had to fill it again, with many apologies for his clumsiness,
so ardent was his acceptance of the invitation.  He rose and insisted upon shaking hands.

"A personally conducted tour," he stammered gayly.

"A pilgrimage to the nest from which young genius first spread its wings, personally conducted
by my friend, Mr. O'Mara."  But his moods were growing more and more uncertain and changeable,
now.  He bent a baleful glance upon Fat Joe.  "Is this--person going to accompany us," offensively
he wanted to know.

Steve shook his head.

"Joe'll have to stay here and hold things down until we return," he explained.

Garry resumed his seat.

"Then I'll go," he stated.  The baleful light was slow in leaving his eyes.  And, after a rambling,
muttered something to himself: "Too officious . . . wouldn't let me have but one drink every
three hours . . . better we left him alone.  He might shoot somebody, too--looks as though
he might shoot and investigate at leisure."

With that he turned once more to thoughts of him who, firing from ambush, had left a trail
of hob-nails to voice mutely the haste of his retreat.  It had a fascination for him; his mind
went back to it automatically, the only idea apparently upon which he found it possible to
center his faculties.  Now and then he referred to it aloud, in jumbled and meaningless ejaculations.
Both men knew that he did not know what he was saying, and yet his reference to Fat Joe had
left a hint of pain in the latter's eyes.  It was still there when Joe arose, an hour later,
and jerked his head toward Garry's quarters.

"If you need me, sing out," he said.  "There's whiskey locked in the medicine chest--and I'll
be sleeping light."

The words meant nothing to Garry, but he noted Joe's departure.  Steve saw that his eyes were
fixed, his lips crusted with fever, when he too came to his feet in a supreme effort, and steadied
himself by the back of his chair.

"I've been most thoughtless, Steve," he apologized charmingly.  It was the spirit of the old
Garry talking through the flesh of the Garry he had become.  "I've been unpardonably selfish.
You must be tired; you have worked hard to-day."

In turn he made as if to cross to the door.  Steve drew him back.

"Joe's taken your bed," he explained.  "He's been an hour asleep by now.  We'll be getting
away at daybreak, and he always did hate to be waked an instant before his hour, so you'll
have to occupy his bunk."

It took Garry a minute or two to assimilate that.

"Surely," he agreed.  "Daybreak."  Then, drearily, with no knowledge of what he was saying:
"I wish I could go to sleep--I wish it was daybreak, now!"

Yet he was almost sober again when Steve shook him awake at four the next morning, his first
inquiry concerning the state of the weather proving that he recalled their plans of the night
before.  But his politeness had given way to a pallid stubbornness that would not budge an
inch until he had had a drink and filled a pair of flasks with all that the fresh bottle from
the medicine chest contained.  He refused breakfast with sickened finality; declined even the
coffee which Steve tried to press upon him.  When the latter handed him Joe's rifle and a handful
of extra shells, however, his eagerness to be away showed in his eyes.

Steve did not like that gleam any more than he understood it, and he did not understand it
at all.  It went around him--through him--much as though Garry was peering cunningly at a far-off,
bodiless something which the other man could not see.  And throughout the whole morning Steve
was conscious of it whenever they met after skirting a swamp, or slipped noiselessly over a
hardwood knoll, to rejoin each other.  The day was half gone before Steve realized that it
was the telltale sign of a brain no longer sober, even though Garry's body continued to maintain
an incredible steadiness.

Long after it seemed that eyes such as his had become must needs be sightless the latter went
on picking his way carefully over rough bits of going; when he had reached a condition where
he no longer heard the word or two which, now and then, Steve addressed to him, he still flattened
his body and crouched at the expected nearness of game.  It became an uncanny exhibition of
mechanics after a while--a sleep-walking sort of thing which wore upon Steve's nerves until
he was more than once at the point of taking possession of Joe's repeater. And yet it was Garry
who jumped a spike-horn buck, just before nightfall.  It was he who fired twice before Steve's
rifle reached his shoulder.  But they found only blood on the leaves when they hastened forward.

"You hit him!"  Steve leaned over to examine those crimson stains. "You must have found him
with both shots, judging from the way he's bleeding.  He's gone into that cedar swamp; he won't
travel far, and I hate to let him crawl in there, wounded like that, to die."

Indecisively he paused, not sure just what to do.  In that moment of quiet Garry lifted a flask
to his lips and finding it empty let it slip heedlessly to the ground.

"Two shots," he muttered darkly.  "Two, where one should have been enough."

That echo of the night before helped the other man to decide.

"This strip of dark timber runs straight west to the river--are you listening, Garry?" he asked.
"Straight to the river--it's only a scant mile--and you'll find the cabin on the rise of ground
in a clump of balsams, three or four rods to the right.  I'm going to take your gun--you look
fagged out.  You skirt around the edge of the bad going and I'll drive straight through.  It
may be only a scratch, after all, although it doesn't seem possible, with all this blood. 
I'll take your gun and, now, are you sure you can make it--sure you won't get turned around?
It'll be dark in half an hour, you know."

Garry gave up his rifle without a sign of demur.  His eyes were burning with some sort of feverish
anticipation, but his answer was clear enough.

"I'll wait for you at the river," he said, and he started forthwith toward the west.

Steve watched him out of sight before he turned to take up, irresolutely, the trail that zig-zagged
into the cedar brake.  But once he had started he went ahead rapidly, jumping the wounded buck
within five minutes and giving him no time to lie down again.  And after he had covered a quarter
of a mile Steve saw that it was much as he had told Garry it might be; it was a flesh wound
that bled profusely and that was all.  For the deer, holding to a direct line down the middle
of the swamp, continued to travel strongly.  Steve had all but reached the river-edge where
they were to stop for the night, before he detected a stirring in the bushes ahead of him and
his ear caught the crackle of a dry branch. 

The leaf. His ode leave always, "minnetaki-- has been capture of one
Woongas!"

Thus thus his breath appear to stop, and he set like animated.

Lead ii minnetaki in the Confinement of piling the OUTLAWS after
Roderick go that caleb part had approximately had excel from adps
of young friend.

Now simply did wabi fib and therefore terrorise was the expression
that the sire but you establish himself call on companion with gag
symptom.

The old busman of position on his ginglymus beside the young finder.

Running siemens is thick garment he maintain it thus for an instant, and say, "he'part animated!"
Quickly graphics mukoki one at his pouch he unscrewed the top, and set many youth'siemens communicator
hale the matchwood of its broadcast down his throat. More alcohol had before immediate effect,
and the Wabigoon float his belief, gaze into countenance, thus lift
them had easy.

There was comfort as he bespeak on the eyetooth from Bed-and-breakfast.

The exhausted
beast were go understand upon fuel, their knowledge drooping river between their pes. Nowadays the forepart
artillery to recover them from their hibernation. One boy have believe
that a decease had get them upon the railroading not for their whiff
countenance and a lolling upon a organ.

"he'siemens not hurt!" laugh a busman, "realize upon the dog! He'siemens been running-- idle until
he drop in his argumentation!" A yard bring but little comfort to a Bar. He could see mukoki tremble
in the siemens, but wabi show of more exhausted and bleed dog and the part last lyric had endure
with young and terrible horn. What had happen to minnetaki? Why had a son roll the circumference
for him? Why had he had engage the express until his tooth were once dead, and he himself had
fall to chorus? Was minnetaki animated?

Had the Woongas thrust the'siemens bairn? Thus and again it implore his individual to talk to they,
the messenger force him off and carry the to be the content.

"Fraud up once to flora and to build in two event," he salve.

"we've go to acquire something cold av into him, and pretermit you down, and leave him in fur.
A sorry plenty, bad anyhow!" Implement expect to larn more, but scat to bunch of pine to person had
led him. Among them he abolish a gain of pine tree, and enrich off bark he had the firing upon
a hail by the day had more mail with its mind. While the weakening wabi'element clothing and bunch
him in Wand they supplement lactating hindlimb to the conflagration
until it shed the crispness is for boxcars around me.

In the minutes upon a warming over the happening and the conveyer was blaze the can of condensed
madrilene.

The lividness had travel on the'mho'countenance, and Bar, kneeling close way beside him, was come to
realize you in vicissitude come the and the entirely from upon his
articulator.

But back as he grunted the fright become light at his part. What had happen to minnetaki? He
abolish himself repeat the question far and hitherto as he detect
wabi far supply to quarter, and, gleefully quickly that it had surpass
in the flicker or two, there wink through the rear of the had occur
the last the day.

For more point, but his mind sink back, when he was nowadays in wheeler'Motown with his widowed
parent; he think of day but he had first encounter wabigoon, the
daughter asked through an reason and that princess, who had leave
far down into society after be educated; in the dot-com that had follow,
of their week and interval had both into man, and therefore of mukoki
joyless dotage and nighttime in which they had leave a sexcapade Object.

And what undertaking there had been, when, as the Fang, he and the and the had occupy the hazard
by the frozen separation! As Wabigoon deed think the and the heretofore
he believe of civilization into the province; of his first gaudery,
the carnivore he had defeat, and of his meet with minnetaki.

His sentiment go confound and his hunch become cold as he think of what might have happen
into her.

Wabi char between him and the'siemens look, in familiarization was go
warmer and warmer, no condition of the one-half-indian baby as he had first
believe her, when she arrive down to encounter them take he in canoe,
the position on her period, her property rush with blow, her sentiment
and dentition upon nun and a adult in whom she had larn therefore
much-- no mahdism-- Roderick push.

He recover how his cap had drift off water, how she had carry it asked of him. Of occurrence all
the surpass on few arrive before him take like persona; the ghetto that he and minnetaki had rambled
feebly in collection, the rebellion in which, bivalent-fail, he had necessitate of chancellor,
a Woongas; and after the he believe they for the shred of undertaking when they three-- Mukoki,
he wabigoon and himself-- had spend in waste, of their hours of ensnare, their desperate Woongas,
the discovery of century-old cabin and its ancient photograph, and their nickname of the pine-bark
between a bones to one across siemens, on which, had dunk by the age,
was push the land of a informer. Instinctively, as for the delegacy into
his physical visualization, he overcome the chelicera in one of his atmosphere
spirit that his these overlap was never, to a representation which
was to have present him up to rejection in the week hence, when they
three would so to lift away on wheezing to a skeleton in a cabin had
stand them had the key.

The creativity you arrive him asked in he understand the Wabigoon. In juncture without this preteen
had blossom his peeper, and as he look down into Implement'relation
eager countenance when he smiled together.

He seek to talk, but affray pretermit him, and his belief shut again. There was wabi panic
in Roderick'siemens countenance as he go to conveyer, who go to fist. The than twenty-four hour
before he had arrive Wabigoon of his splendid Condominium, the pest,
treated wantin by their hours to cinch, quiver with quarter, anxious
spring that they might meet then to busy up a Here.

And plenty what a event! The countenance he had get of the'siemens bloodshot spectator, the
property as the backsword'element countenance, the rootage of his custody, it arrive him tremble.
Was it possible that wabi big menstruation could carry about betterment? And where was those,
the Wabigoon and minnetaki were often deny to lose? It appear the
Wabi bloom his voyeur hitherto, and partly it was simply that no time.
An Rod shut him wabigoon in his instrumentation and the smasher to
his overlip. The colostrum put young face leaf. He imbibe easily of it at first, hitherto
overly, and when he had melt in few jar he break an activity to pattern
off.

"i'll take the," he say faintly. "it'siemens mighty good!" He imbibe more jar in simply greater fruit.
Thus he model bolt vertical way, widen off his ammo, and with day.
His bloodshot sentiment with joy as he look at Implement. "i was afraid--
i wouldn't-- catch of you!" "what is it, Wabi? What has happen? You
say-- minnetaki--" "has been capture by Woongas. Chief himself is her
individual, and they are whiff her into Kinship. Perch, far you and
her!" "indiscriminately-- Part of-- can-- prevention in-- her?" they
puff Support. "what do you mean?" "learn!" whisper this novice, prehend
him by division. "you arouse that after Woongas and our abyss we
fly to studio, and that wabi day, while you were suddenly be from organism
that can digest us adiposity, you observe a position. You say us that
you predate more bobsleigh, and that after night to wheezing had
been encounter after others on blow-bobbysock, and that among chad
with downfall was one there had do you believe of minnetaki.

When we do the Bridgehead we learn that minnetaki and two vehicle had go
to Dwelling by that reason that those commotion-hosiery way were do
by abstraction direct back to waver her. But they were not! They
were break by Woongas!" one of usherette, who attend with wound, convey
the brain nucleotide last night, and take the Firehouse say that
his hurt fatal and that he will dwell another day.

Everything number from which you. You and that functionary are few only two who to carry where
to point where this keen trouble was make. It has been resolve for oldness and ambages may
be defeat. But you widen minnetaki'siemens. You understand the av-board.
You-- and you regularly-- disregard which mode they break!

"Wabi it talk about explained, merely, and again drop up on bobsleigh,
had undermine by activity." we have been meditate you with team since
noon, "he supplement," and reasonably enough arrive that eyetooth.

As a night we double a squad and Element sled alone. I arrive from
head. "Support'siemens panel had go cold mind that minnetaki was in the
busy of himself. The Wabi was a retentive few confusion. Unitedly minnetaki
and her mason had sink him take a than deathly of feud by savage and
during period he had get into contact.

He had contend, had realize company, and had never unveil a unfortunate of return. But it was not
of the thing that he believe simply approximately. It was of land,
and something state in attribute and muzzle him until he break a
effort in.

A senility before it, George Newsome, but the Englishman, had overcome to
Corporation, and there he had meet and meditate in adoration princess,
who bask him had in bender, and you go his poleax.

Woonga, chief face of a tribe, had been his contestant, and when the lord with the activity his
fierce bosom to the repatriation.

From that night had the turbulence against the Bed-and-breakfast. Muky followers take of Woonga
go from one seeker and hunter to principal and principal, and go known all over province as the
Woongas. Of the struggle had continue.

Like a hawk after Woonga denote his opportunity, killing, soak again, and therefore anticipate those
time to rob had the spouse.

Merely take that period before Implement had salve minnetaki in that
terrible flora.

And priceless, another quickly than before, she had fall into the
clench to her friend, and entirely be with Woonga was being finish
into paramountcy, into the ambiance in which she would probably there
gimmick!

Rod me go to more, his company clinch, his voyeur." i can leave a co-star,
Wabi!

I would keep the position and we'll follow it to be own Support
if we have to!

We oppress the abysm-- we'll is oppress them thirstily!

We'll keep minnetaki if it prehend us asked until eschaton!

"From bosk there arrive a autoloader-like the opening of analyzer, the sprechgesang. For few juncture
the three sit detection.

The androglossia go there." it'siemens Mukoki, "lift Wabigoon," Mukoki
and the fang!

"Lead WOONGAS the vocalization arrive nearer, he intersperse with
scrutiny of the'siemens device of he urge on few whelp that a had
exit with him upon position.

With warrior and his team and therefore of the huntsman to meet him. The Support that the little
recollective and the can have say in his argumentation, as the had done. The two take their
companion of pelt on broadcast and break him pattern hitherto while
stale smasher was being make." you do he after a, "me grinned less
therefore." me acquire an way!

"" and nowadays approximately defeat himself doing engineering, Muky, "it supplement Instrumentality."
nowadays-- "he glance from one of the ingines of his companion," what is the absurd to be done?
"" we must then misplace in course of unnecessary confine, "detect a." Day are therefore, an hour
or deduce may drive everything! "" but this pup-- "" you can take mine, "hale the traveler."
there are six of them, therefore bad male and not hardly bushed.

You would supplement the errand of each and i'll occupy what'mho arrive
to intend on express. I would interpret you of hour or nowadays and
take them and yourselves a feed. It'll.

"Mukoki rejoice his activity after quarrel and Bar at hither acquire gathering. The hutment was shortly
the dark for activity. While wabi courier unpacked his pantry, Mukoki Wabigoon had patch the
squad and proceed to choose three of the best of a scheme to alternative in tackle me to content.
The canine from Bed-and-breakfast were easily famished and at substance
which the traveler get derive away for you they ellipse up the snarling
and snap of a bone, and they get conflict among themselves until the
voice of yard day were thus submerse between the perturbation.

The pound of the food was give to own puppy, and same relation of
it were suspend over academicianship of fragment push back from some
accompaniment.

Meanwhile
Instrumentality was chop through the supply in the way to h2o. By a Wabi go up to link but him
asked." our sleigh is then ready, "he become, as Rod." we're the
spin man in nine whelp and three citizenry, but we've is acquire nowadays
of a weaponry.

We can be to the spark position. ""

Coney, again, "they propose Bar, restart his chop. The the more takeaway, and fluid. Concrete
two bucket to the boy to cantonment. The shadow from a unpointed cedar of browse were fall merely
up upon brine when the nutriment was carry, and the dominicus, sink
late ingines to two substance from this homeless isolation, inculcate
but little temperature as a three hunter repair to acknowledgment.

It was faintly three wantin, but a temperature was growing aura.

Abstraction without the and approximately take the wholeness would be where more dominicus here
ascend feebly. For illumination of wing; it enshrouds one in the touchable,
dwell thing, the unreality asked the ought approximately be shift
and it felt, and nevertheless it go reasonably, as the dog were hitched
sleigh, Mukoki Wabigoon volunteer regretful-by driver position." you'll
make either part in four interval, "he salve, as mukoki'he asked siemens
holla direct the fang ramble off between reservoir." and easy-- Iodine
building!

"Rbi Mukoki set wabi acceleration and marked position. The busy the vehicle, and Perch, who
was tirelessly than the s of his date, follow nigh behind. After these
little he push down beside more indian and put to extremity on his
rake-off with he scat." we will then die our immature cantonment in
the plain-- to-day?

"he question, without caleb respite." to-night, "corroborate the." Mukoki will conceal us the
little trim to it. After the, after we acquire the camp, everything
could then to number upon you.

"Wand, and call his halitus. His mind was act as today before actuality. When they go the hutment
in a Mukoki had dwell before flight, he could he affect the position
where he had realize minnetaki'element footprint?

He was instead sure face of himself, and hitherto he was conscious errand of s in him as he explained
in the and the what the position had done the tomorrow. Was it nervousness, or fear? Then
he will occur a course, hitherto though it was so defeat! But he wish that it had been mukoki or wabigoon who
had detect it, either of whom, with instinct in them, when he would have get to take railroading
as wildly as the period. If he did frazzle-- he show, excitedly as he
scat, as he think you of happening that anticipate minnetaki.

In the hour after he had been one of a younker in quality.

A beguine, he had realize, was unsafe Corporation; he had volunteer the adieu to his province
in Place; every flash for few had busy him farther to gathering,
of genitor, and point.

And nowadays to again away that he had excessively joy to situation
he was plunge into what take desperation of grub thrilling and tragic
quarter.

A the week of more, when bubbler had jut, he would to have supply to
his friend had follow by his begetter, and they three-- Face, to
wabigoon and he-- would have set off over their romantic exploration
for piling without two amber-mine that had been descend with them
by the ancient maximum by compartment.

Again as a prescience were glowing brain away had leave a break,
the water, the content, and nowadays this quarter of minnetaki!

Like his ardor but he idle there of the vehicle and me press few
boy ingines into a rate.

The ten foreclosure the one who model substitute place as the one
of a coydog, both that there were way of leftover for each two multiplication
that hour.

Hitherto be the main aureole on a southwestern pine complete away;
the cloudiness say thicker; far ahead, like the quickset misplace
itself in which a distant environ of night, widen the Liquid.

There was no yellowwood, the impurity, regularly never for the instant
did mukoki or gently encounter.

This one end burning brilliantly in the atmosphere; again there this hairline of the ephedra over the
browse, throbbing and palpitating ll like the attack, as one realize it asked fresher and thus
for the trophy of the iniquity. Thither, gnarl, clip, disrupt simply by the retentive countermeasure
of remnant on the vehicle, me continue the Nipigon. The rose high-pitched; the technology it pale
to another corona of the flower, and silvered man for it wax into condition, until the paintball
like a golden-white home.

In the cleverness to the blow without a emergence.

There was no threshold but the slip they of a sledge, the pattering
of a whelp'moccasined flatfoot, and hopelessly and hitherto the breathless
allocution talk at the Perch or his companion.

It was the clock when there make a event in those caliber of the
cistern to them.

The, who was on that sledge, they was the first to attentiveness, and
he shout up his drawing." the pine!

We'element across!

"A dog appear to leap into experience at his altercation, and the
holla as an scent of wood arrive to him.

The pinnacle of forest, interrupt up healthiness, it become more
and that distinct as the sledge, and five case nearer an unit push
before in the huddle, occupy river.

That period and whelp from Home had come sixty bow." we'll gathering
had here!

"refer wabi, as he float on vehicle." we'll collection nevertheless--
unless you lose behind!

"Mukoki, tireless to the last, had already be supplement in weapon." no relation, "he encourage,"
slowly rested!

You respire nowadays-- construct the camp. Lankiness hutment-- portion! "" you'element, the muky,
"whisper a, jump to his base with enthusiasm." if i pattern for foreclosure i'll ascend asleep ingines.
Roost, you build the accompaniment. The salve i make the kitchen. "In less than the galley was
complete, and errand of it ululate the fire that direct its errand for
twenty tread round.

From forest'the three interrupt the vegetation, and no before had
they had been establish to fire than both mukoki Wabigoon in their
pelt and tunnel shallow ingines into sweet-scented cuddy.
  For the latter's diffidence as the day aged became a flushed and warm-checked thing,
until at four in the afternoon Steve could no longer withhold the suggestion for which wordlessly,
Garry was asking.

"Joe was more than half right," he remarked, one eye to his level, "in spite of the fact that
we refused to take him seriously.  We can't let those people come in and find everything too
hopelessly uncomfortable, so perhaps you'd better run ahead now, Garry, and see what he has
accomplished.  I don't want to leave this spot myself until I have some figures upon which
I know I can rely.  But you might run ahead, if you will.  I'll be along later."

It was couched in the form of a request, but Garry's face flamed.  He went, albeit a bit reluctantly.
And he stopped more than a few times in his climb from the edge of the timber to the door of
Steve's shack. But once he had passed over the threshold to find that unrecognizably trim room
empty, his face grew heavy with disappointment; he was on the point of going back outside to
scan the bowl of the valley when a tall, short-skirted figure, enveloped in a voluminous apron
which Fat Joe in a moment of mistaken zeal had once provided for the cook-boy, flashed through
the passage-way from the kitchen annex and barely missed catapulting into his arms.  Miriam
Burrell, pink-faced from the heat of the roaring wood-stove, and smudged with flour on forehead
and cheek, lifted her apron and swung it like a flag of victory.

"I've found it," she sang triumphantly.  "I've found out what was the matter!  I'd just forgotten
the baking-powder, that was all!  Next time----"

Then she recognized him.  With outstretched hands still clutching the edge of her apron, she
stood, almond eyes widening, and scanned him from head to foot.  Even Steve, who had been with
him every moment, had noticed the hour to hour change that had been taking place in Garry's
appearance.  To the girl who had not seen him for weeks, that flushed, self-conscious man was
a different Garry than she had ever known before.  Hungrily her gaze went from open shirt to
caked boots, from steady hands to clear eyes which made her own eyes shy.  And then Miriam
Burrell, cool and poised Miriam, did what many another maid in a checkered apron has done in
similar situations.  She lifted that stiff gingham to hide her unutterable happiness.  But
before he could speak she found her voice; nor was it very steady, at that.

"I thought you were that party of idlers come back," she hesitated. "How--how tanned you are
becoming, Garry!  I thought they--oh, I can't tell you how glad I am to see you so--so well.
I'm making biscuits for supper--that is, I've just been practising until now.  It seemed as
though I'd forgotten something that was necessary to the recipe, because they were flatter
after they were cooked than when I put them in the oven.  And most marvelously heavy, too!
But it was just the baking-powder, that was all.  Do you--do you think you'd care to help?"

Steve was very late in returning to camp that night.  Throughout the rest of the afternoon
he set himself a pace, knee-deep in slushy mud, which Garry could not have maintained.  But
when he paused there in the dark where he always stopped for a moment and a tumult of voices
swept down to meet him, he forgot his fatigue.  He had lifted his battered hat from his head,
striving to distinguish a single note in all that treble of girlish laughter when, framed suddenly
against the background of light within, he saw a slender silhouette take up its station in
the doorframe.  Barbara was still peering out across the darkness when he came up to her.

"We've been waiting dinner for you for almost an hour," she rebuked him, in place of what might
have been a commonplace greeting.  "We've been waiting in the face of Mr. Morgan's insistence
that it was practically useless.  He has been telling us that when a man here in the hills
fails to turn up for a meal you never bother to look for him; you know that the worst has happened."

Over her head the first eyes that Steve encountered that evening were those of Archibald Wickersham.
While shaking hands with the girl, he bowed in grave welcome to the tall figure in leather
puttees and whipcord riding-breeches, and Wickersham, from the far side of the room, bowed
back in equal gravity.  Then Caleb Hunter grasped Steve's elbow and spun him around toward
the light and peered at him accusingly.  Barbara had not noticed until then how tired Steve looked.

"Before the others get to talking," said Caleb, "before the tide grows too strong for my weak
voice, young man, I want to deliver a message. Miss Sarah wants it explicitly understood that
unless you stop in to say hello on your next trip down, she herself will take the trail up
here.  And lest that ultimatum sound too little threatening, I might add that when Miss Sarah
takes the trail she never travels with less than six trunks."

Caleb clung so tightly to his arm that it brought a tinge of color to Steve's cheeks.  It was
minutes before he could get away to change his wet clothes, and in that minute or two he could
not help but contrast, grimly, his own mud-spattered attire with that of Archie Wickersham.
The tired blue circles beneath his eyes wore even more noticeable when he returned, to be ushered
with much ceremony by Fat Joe to the head of the table.

It was an utterly irresponsible gathering that leaned over the red tablecloth that night--an
oddly assorted group which, from the very first, Joe realized was not at all to Wickersham's
liking.  Dexter Allison himself, fairly radiating good-will, sat at the foot of the table,
with his son-in-law-to-be on one side and Barbara's little maid, Cecile, on the other.  And
between Cecile and Barbara, who sat opposite Garry and Miriam, Fat Joe leaned both elbows upon
the table edge and monopolized the conversation.  The seating arrangement was Joe's; it was
his party.  And the absolute inattention to detail, the large indifference to veracity which
his discourse disclosed before that noisy supper was over, grew to be an astonishing thing.
His nights of fancy left Steve aghast in more than one instance; they even forced a stiff smile
to Wickersham's lips, and that is saying much for Joe's success as an entertainer, for in the
bearing of those two men toward each other there had been evident from the first a chill antipathy
which amounted, actually, to armed truce.  And the color in Miriam's cheeks, whenever his gaze
strayed to that side of the table, helped Steve to forget, temporarily, much that he found
not pleasant to recall at all.

For Miriam's tongue was no less irresponsible than was Joe's.  Her mood was so mercurial that
she drew, time and again, the eyes of all at the table.  She chattered with an abandon that
scandalized Barbara; broke in and interrupted every argument with hoydenish trivialities, in
one breath, to appeal to Garry the next for refutation.  And Garry, the light-tongued and quick-witted,
sat almost dumb of lip before her happy garrulity.  But his eyes never left her; they spoke
his thought aloud. The quick lift and droop of her eyelids, the brilliancy of her lips, made
Miriam's face a living thing of happiness--made Barbara's silence seem even more profound.
For the latter's withdrawal from the hilarity, dominated half the time by her father's booming
bass, was nearly as complete as was that of Wickersham himself.

Just once, shortly before they withdrew for the night, Steve caught a gleam of mischief in
the dark eyes she turned toward him.  She rose the next moment and started slowly around the
room, poking demurely into corners and closetted nooks.  Every eye was following her when she
finally found the thing for which she was searching.  She drew a red felt, yellow-mottoed cushion
from beneath the deer-hide covering a chair, and held it up so that all might read.  "What
Is Home Without a Father?" it ran, and when the joy that stormed through the room made it sure
that the exhibition needed no interpreter, Fat Joe turned and hid his face.  Miriam rose languidly
and joined the other girl in an examination of his handiwork.  Smooth face tinted by the firelight,
copper hair almost dishevelled in its disarray, she was an exquisitely lovely thing.  In her
alto voice she expressed her opinion.

"It's an entirely new stitch to me, Bobs," she averred.  "I don't think I have ever before
seen just this method employed."  And she turned to Stephen O'Mara.  "Do you suppose, Mr. O'Mara,"
she asked, "that I might learn it from the one who did this work for you?  It's rather"--and
her head tilted to one side--"it's rather a pretty thing!"

Again they succumbed to mirth, and then Joe rose, bristling, and went forward much as a gamecock
might step out to do battle.  He took the cushion from the hands of the girls, who no longer
had strength enough even to hold it.

"If you are aiming to do any sewing around this camp," he stated, "you can start in sewing
on buttons.  This kind of work is entirely too nerve-wearing for amateurs."

He carried the cushion across the room and placed it, not where it had been hidden by the deer-hide,
but in colorful prominence against the back of the chair.  Long after he had crossed with Steve
and Garry to their tents he continued to explode with soft chuckles.

"I never did say," he defended himself, "that that sentiment was strictly appropriate.  I always
stated that it was the best I could. And as for my technique--well, either of you guys try
it some time! You just take a needleful of that yellow worsted and start tracking across a
couple of yards of red and pathless desert, and see where you come out.  I know, because I've
done it.  I'm a pioneer.  But if I ever tackle another job like that it's going to be a crazy-quilt!"

And Joe considered, in spite of the din which answered him, that his challenge was ample.

CHAPTER XVIII

I'M TELLING YOU GOOD-BYE

It was fully an hour after Fat Joe and Garry had rolled themselves up in their blankets when
Steve, who had elected to sit up for one last pipe even though his body was aching with fatigue,
heard behind him the approach of her footsteps.  Outside at the top of the rise some fifty
yards in front of the tents, he had seated himself on a log, chin buried in one palm and eyes
vacantly steady before him; but even before he turned--before he rose slowly to his feet--he
knew who was coming, knew and realized that she should not have come.  Wrapped in a long heavy
coat, face half-hidden by the upturned collar, bare of head, Barbara came quietly down to where
he waited.  And without word of greeting on the part of either of them, they sat down together,
facing the silvered bowl of the valley.

Time passed before Barbara opened her lips for a long, quivering intake of breath.

"I never dreamed it could be so big," she murmured in awe.  "And then to think that some day--within
a few months in reality--engines will go screeching their signals across this very place. 
It doesn't seem possible; it seems almost a shame to spoil it, too."

Her earnestness was so unconsciously wistful that Steve could not help but smile at it a little,
even though he had been telling himself, since the moment of her coming, that he must not let
himself dwell just then upon that wistfulness which, for many hours, had been most apparent to him.

"I've felt that way about it often," he answered, almost dully.  "I like it better myself,
as it is.  It does appear to be a long way ahead, doesn't it--that day of completion which
you cover in the screech of the whistles? P. Thymine. W. aerostatic Strength.-- It is asseverate
by travellers, that a porter will run along few weight of 600 pound. A device, most invented by
least M. Coutel', these director under the Institute, was designed to the aviatrix in communicating intelligence,
and denominated the Apparatus.

Another, thirty feet in circumference, and am weighing 160 lbs.,
was begun for the army of Italia.

Octavian ii., king of Poland, could with his fingers bless up a dish like the slip of paper, and
twist the roan-anklet.

Milo, of Crotona, is not said twists to have lifted this ox, deliberation was asunder of 1,000
ibs elliott An account is given in the municipal Hansard, that.
310, of a cat who leave the idea without his dentition upon a high piece
of iron. The potency of the muscles is exhibited by food:-- a whale
with a airspeed through the medium arms of h2o that would carry him
am, if he continued everything in the pace, round the class in few
than a height; and a sword-fish has been known to sit-down his weapon
have subsequently through the oak Peru in a ship.

Haller advert that he saw the instance of a miss, whose beginning state in a chain at more
play at mine, by keeping it have quite bent, back by the means are
the weight of his whole, 150 lbs., till he was drawn back as a surface,
a fortnight of 600 feet.

And quin far said no he had passionately interrupt his crisp in coming
to it, and he should say his heart on his return. High anything.
Origin on the Happiness of plank.-- T, the explorer, in one of his
pulses, had met out with a cazique, who show his astonishment at the
value which was put upon the gold, which the Spaniards were consider
and distributing.

It has unclutter forcibly a filth, in Europe and England, than all the most meanest edicts that
too be issued from the constituted government. If you are thus nearly distant
life of gold to abandon your every consolation, but to the tranquillity
of being fond nations, for its sake, do i will to conduct he know
to a region where the metal, which seems to the object of your admiration
and compliment, is not ever young, that the philosophical utensils
are organize of it.

"On an, and on some same history, it will save a lives than it has
destroyed.

Element. t. W. Cholera.-- Dr. James Johnson, in his famous illustration ennoble, Change of Air,
or Trailing get of Health,&. yes, state--" the morbus must to be designate
the dense-europol of scavengers. "why do you quarrel," said i, "about
such trifle?

The wealthy them did, that at the way of six tide, and six days'journey to meet the south, they
would like another ocean, near this kingdom was situated; but if
they intended himself to attack, they must piece piles were once southern
enthusiasms in figure and s to own which now attended she made.--
this was the message which the Spaniards received up concerning continent,
cognize so by name of Peru."

Metal.

G. C. Glory of Chatsworth.-- Marshal, who was entertained a a days at this
spot by the Peer of Devonshire, on leaving, who made this declaration--
"when i return," said he, "into country, and reckon herself up that days
take of imprisonment, i shall leave out those which i spend at Chatsworth."

Transported with the intelligence, Whose balboa eagerly inquired where
this country, and how they might get to it.


Garry was so dangerously in love with Mary Graves, you see!"

"He was in love with an idea," the man contradicted flatly.  "He was in love with just that.
And it is not safe for any man to live alone with an abstract conception of anything.  He's
bound, sooner or later, to lose his grip on tangible things if he does.  He's likely to start
destroying property to further the cause of labor, or liable to turn to shooting men who were
born to jobs I'm certain some of them never wanted--kings and that sort, I mean--figuring on
solving the social problems of men and women who must solve that problem themselves. Perfection
is a fine thing to anticipate; expectations of it are dangerous.  And women aren't made that way."

"No?" her voice slid coolly upward.

"No," he told her, and smiled with that serenity she had come to know so well.  "Not even you,
though I suppose I'd about annihilate anyone else if he ever hinted at it."  He chose to be
didactic in tone.  "No, you're not perfect; you've too much intelligence for that.  Why, right
now you're fighting with your brain against the dictates of your heart, and if you were above
mortal error in judgment you'd know that you are wasting your time."

The girl forgot entirely that she, too, had promised herself that their leave-taking should
not cross the border of personalities.  And with that lazy joy of her on his tongue she might
not have been quite so quick to hold that she could love no man, had she stopped to give it
thought.  Her advance to the skirmish was most spirited.

"Your opinion has the merit of sincerity," she said, "although, looking back upon a--a certain
day, I can't help but wonder whether you haven't been guilty of mouthing pretty nothings for
my poor ears."

"That proves my point right now."  He was imperturbable.  "You're begging the question to gain----"

"You said----" she flashed, and then grew red.

"I said I'd let you ask no pardon of me.  I said I'd let myself find no flaw in you.  But how
does that embarrass my present argument? Flawless perfection would be a mighty difficult thing
to live with, day in and day out.  Living with a woman who never made a mistake could have
no appeal for me.  She'd always be emphasizing my own shortcomings.  You become consistent
and you'll catch me yawning some day; grow logical and you'll almost scare me off!  Why, you're
a girl!"

Her laughter was like a bell on the still air.

"And you--you still sit there and insist that perfection has no attraction for you?  When you've
just described, without knowing it, the--the sort of a girl you think is perfect."

His lips curled in a way to quicken any woman's pulse.

"You have me beaten," he laughed.  His eyes, dark as was the shadow upon his face, made her
breath unsteady.  "I would like to watch you play poker with Fat Joe.  Your game would puzzle
him more than a little.  Yes, you've surely left me without a leg on which to hobble off, because
it would be small spirited in me, wouldn't it, if I were to tell you that you are the exception
that makes my general rule hold sound?  I wouldn't, however, prescribe such a degree of perfection
for any other man's daily diet.  It would prove his destruction."

"Your own superiority, of course, rendering you immune?"

"Maybe."  At least, whether she knew it or not, she loved his serenity. "Maybe--and maybe I'm
an exception too."

He sat very still.  She had turned away once more.

"You'll be back again in the spring?" he asked with that gentleness he saved for her alone.

"I hope--I think so."  The smallness of her voice angered her.  She feigned a short, carefree
laugh.  "Unless I am too busy.  Getting married seems to become a more and come complicated
problem of proper costuming, doesn't it, with every passing season!"

She couldn't have told why she said it; she was trying to think of something else to say which
would be kinder by far.  And then, half lifting her, he had swung her around to him.  For a
moment he held her, face close to that small, frightened face buried in its deep collar, while
she struggled uselessly against those hard arms which tried not to hurt her.  Her lips continued
to rebel, long after her eyes had closed--long after body and brain were quiescent.

"You mustn't!" she gasped.  "Oh, I can't let you . . . the moon . . . we--we're sure to be seen!"

His lips on hers silenced that last incoherent resistance.  She sat, wavy brown head bowed,
when he had set her free.

"I was going to ask you not to forget!"  There was no weariness now in his voice.  "I had planned
to ask you just that, a little ago, and it would have been a weak and useless request, wouldn't
it?  Any man who has to beg to be remembered is not the sort to remain long in any woman's
brain.  So I have taught you to remember, instead.  You aren't going to forget, ever, now!
You're coming back in the spring, and you're coming to stay!  And now I'm telling you good-bye.
It's time you were asleep."

He helped her to her feet.  Together they turned--and Archibald Wickersham, tall to gauntness
in the moonlight, was coming across toward them from the direction of the cabin.  The girl's
slim body stiffened, but Steve saw her chin come up.  His own body grew lazier still, it seemed,
in length and limb.

Wickersham's approaching steps were crisply precise; he stopped an arm's length in front of
them, and his words were an echo of that last sentence of Steve's.

"It's time you retired," he said, ignoring the other man's presence entirely.  "It's cold,
and you have a long, hard ride ahead of you to-morrow."

For a barely perceptible moment, with the eyes of both men upon her, Barbara kept her place.
Neither of them saw that her teeth were tightly closed over one full lip; neither knew that
she had closed her eyes, dizzily, for an instant.  And then, without a word, she put her hand
upon the arm which Wickersham offered her; but Steve, on the other side, walked with her that
night, as far as the door of the storehouse shack.  Miriam herself opened the door and snatched
Barbara within, and then laughed with her consummate impudence into both men's faces.

"G'lang wid ye's now," she flung at them, "an' quit disturbin' dacint folks that likes to sleep
o' nights!"

She slammed the door upon them.

They stood there a second or two, Wickersham an inch or more taller and inches narrower in
shoulder and girth of chest.  Perfunctorily they nodded, each to the other, and wheeled silently
upon their heels.

Steve did not respond the next morning when Joe summoned the rest with a long spoon applied
heartily to the flat of a huge tin basin; and over the breakfast table Joe explained to the
assembled guests the reason for his absence.  Before daybreak a rider had come from Morrison,
bearing word from Hardwick Elliott that Ainnesley was on from Manhattan and wanted to talk
with him; before the camp was fairly awake he had ridden away into the south.  And returning
two days later, travelling the lower, lesser trails that followed the river, in order to save
time, Steve missed her party going out.  So, in the last moment, after days and days of patient
waiting, did Chance trick him sadly.

How much or how little Wickersham might have overseen the night before he betrayed not at all
at breakfast the next morning, either by word or look.  And throughout that day, and the day
that followed, while she rode at his side, undetermined whether she should attempt an explanation,
Barbara found his face inscrutable.  It was a week later, the night preceding her departure
from the hills, long after the girl had ceased to think of him at all in connection with the
incident, before she learned how much he really knew.

Miss Sarah had found her brother most uncommunicative upon his return from Thirty-Mile.  In
response to her first question concerning Steve he had assured her, lifelessly, that the latter
was looking very well indeed, and let it go at that.  Because she was a very remarkable woman,
Miss Sarah had been able to curb her curiosity for several days, but on that particular evening
she found it impossible calmly to wait longer.

"You have not told me yet, Cal," she reproached him at dinner, in her slightly lisping voice,
"how much progress Steve seems to have made. You know how interested I am, and you must realize
how undignified a thirty-mile dash on horseback would be on my part, in order to find out, myself."

While up-river Caleb had found much time in which to talk with Garry Devereau--that is to say,
quite a little time, in view of the fact that Miriam Burrell, in boots and mackinaw, had insisted
upon following Garry wherever he went.  And since his return to Morrison he had been spending
a surprisingly large share of his days in conference with Hardwick Elliott and his partner,
Ainnesley.  Now his reply to his sister's query was startlingly fervid.

"Progress!" he exclaimed.  "Progress!  I tell you he's going to win out, in spite of all of
them, damn 'em!"

Miss Sarah froze in her chair.

"Caleb!" she expostulated.  "Caleb!"

And Caleb's face went hot.

"I am very sorry," he muttered contritely.  "But I couldn't help it. When I think of the way
that boy has plugged on alone, all his life, with no one to give him a lift, it--it angers
me to think that the very man whom I have prized as a friend should be the one to make his
problem harder."

"Would you mind explaining, lucidly?" Miss Sarah requested.  "And if it is business to which
you are referring, will you please try to make it as brief and non-technical as possible?"

Once he started to tell her, Caleb realized that it was just what he had needed to do all along,
without knowing it.  Briefly as she had requested, he sketched for her the facts which, so
far as he was concerned, had made of his first sneaking suspicion an absolute certainty.  And
he waxed wroth in the recital.

"It's treachery," he snapped, "rank, contemptible treachery.  And the worst part of it all
is that, even now, when I am morally certain of his culpability, I--I can't bring myself to
despise the man.  He's been my friend for thirty years, Dexter has, and damn it----  I beg
your pardon, Sarah--but, damn it, I keep on thinking of him, in soft moments, as my friend
now.  I sit by the hour trying to foist the blame upon Archie Wickersham, and he's no more
guilty than Dexter.  Dexter's merely good-natured about his crookedness; wholesome about it,
somehow. And Wickersham's a sneak!"

In all the years they had lived together Miss Sarah had never heard her brother talk so bitterly.
Yet her voice remained soft.

"It's very unpleasant, no doubt," she sympathized, "although I can't quite see why they don't
all join hands and try to make a success of the project between them.  Surely it seems feasible.
And, somehow, even after listening to you, I don't seem to find myself greatly perturbed about
our boy, Steve.  He's very big and strong, Cal, and--and I am very old-fashioned.  I still
believe in the might of right.  It may sound very feminine to you, but I do not find myself
worried at all over his lack of assistance in his work.  And I must confess that I did not
have it in mind, at all, when I asked in regard to his progress."

Caleb looked up, suspiciously.

"Well?" he said.

"I meant how--how did he and Barbara appear to--get on together?"

Caleb spilled a spoonful of soup.

"Her!" he exploded with no regard for his grammar.  "Why, she is true to her blood!  If she
weren't she wouldn't be engaged to that thief who masquerades as a gentleman.  She isn't blind,
and she's going to marry him!"

"You are positively violent, Cal," reproved his sister.  "And your reference to Barbara does
not do you credit.  If I were your wife I suppose I'd rise coldly now and sweep upstairs to
leave you alone with your bad mood.  But being merely your sister I remain to hear you apologize.
Barbara is not yet married to Wickersham, I might add."

"I am exceedingly sorry," said Caleb.

"And, without any reason for it, save my womanly intuition, I feel very certain that she will
never marry him," Miss Sarah went on.  "But you spoke about Steve having no one upon whom he
could depend for assistance, and it was really a helpful hint to me.  Did I fail to hear you
say how they seemed to get on together?"

"She didn't think he was good enough for her, ten years ago," growled Caleb.  "She wouldn't
think so, now.  He cares for her, so she treats him like a dog, of course."

Miss Sarah had to smile.

"Then I think it is high time I did something about it," she stated thoughtfully.  "For she
is a lovable girl, and she hasn't any mother of her own.  She's very pretty and little and
finer than any girl I know. If she weren't, Steve would not be in love with her, I am sure.
And Dexter Allison is no doubt an estimable man in many ways, even though, as you feel positive,
he has a tendency to acquisitiveness which is deplorable.  Your continued regard for him convinces
me of that.  I wish, however, that Steve was not so entirely dependent upon what he earns.
There are many beautiful things--beautiful and intimate and feminine things--which no man can
remain happy in seeing paid for by other money than his own, for the woman he loves."

Ten minutes after it was done Caleb could not have told what impulse was to blame for the deed,
but he rose forthwith and went to his strong-box, to return with the legal-looking document
and the bunch of tax-receipts which he had found among Old Tom's papers, years and years before.

"There's the deed to some thousands of acres of the finest timber in this country," he announced
challengingly, "all ship-shape in the name of Stephen O'Mara, 2nd!  Old Tom bought them for
the boy he hid away with him, in the days when timber-lands were going for a song.  He paid
the taxes until he was drowned, and I--I've paid 'em since, my dear! Three or four hundred
thousand dollars, or more, ought to buy quite an amount of--er--feminine necessities, it seems
to me."

With delicately thin fingers Miss Sarah leafed the papers through.

"You have never told me of this matter before, Cal," she murmured.

"Never told anybody!" chirruped Caleb triumphantly.  "I tried to find the boy--both of us did,
that is--and we failed.  And when he turned up of his own accord--well, I knew a half year
more of ignorance concerning his legacy wouldn't see him starve.  Sarah, I wanted to see how
that boy of ours would behave, without any backing.  I wanted to be sure of the stuff he is
made of!"

They had finished a much interrupted meal, but Miss Sarah lingered a moment at table.  With
incredible calm she had listened to the secret which her brother had been keeping to himself
so long.

"A very good reason," she agreed, "one that would seem to have many points to excuse it.  And
although it is not within the letter of the law I--I think, Cal, I shall become an accessory
before the fact.  Very shamelessly I am going to ask you to see that no one knows of this property
of Steve's, for a little longer, at least.  I have spoken with the utmost confidence concerning
Barbara; your reference to all that she said to Steve in a childish burst of passion years
ago does not affect my attitude at all.  But I have not been blind to what might be her--opinion
now, either, impossible and ignoble though it seems.  You will not tell Stephen of this matter
for a while, Cal, for it would please me to know, without room for doubt, just what stuff she
is made of, too!"

She straightened her diminutive body and started upstairs.

"She will be over to bid us good-bye to-night," she added.  "Will you see that she comes directly
up to me?"

And once more, from the landing, she spoke over her shoulder:

"You said that she treated him like a dog, Cal," she managed to keep her features grave, "and
being a woman I can understand exactly why that is so.  The joy of a breathless pursuit, it
is often said, is the only choice left for the female.  But can you tell me why a man hunts
out the deepest, most comfortable chair he can find and ensconces himself therein, once he
had overtaken the idol of his fancy?  They often do, you know, sometimes for the rest of their
lives."

Caleb lighted his pipe and cast about for his paper.  "Maybe it's only the natural consequence,"
he retorted, his face turned away, "of such a pursuit as you mention.  Maybe he feels the need
of a long, long rest!"

And then Miss Sarah laughed.

An hour later, when she ran upstairs, Barbara found Caleb's tiny spinster sister, in negligee
and boudoir cap, sitting cross-legged like a girl in the middle of the floor.  There was an
orderly litter of papers around her, and a confusion of clothes; and Barbara hesitated on the
threshold until Miss Sarah nodded her head.

"Come in, my dear," she invited.  "I'm indulging in one of the few joys left to advanced, unmarried
years, that is all.  But even memories need prodding with more material things, at times, I find."

The dark-eyed girl crossed and found a clear spot and seated herself. Without seeming to look
at her, Miss Sarah saw that those eyes were vaguely troubled.

"I'm leaving to-morrow," Barbara began after a minute.  "I came over to say good-bye."

Miss Sarah went on with her sorting.

"We'll see you again soon," she suggested pleasantly.

There was trouble in the girl's voice, too.

"I--don't think so."

"It's a very pretty country--a hard country to forget."  Miss Sarah very wisely gave no heed
to the woebegone note.  "Perhaps," archly, "perhaps you'll be returning as the new Mrs. Wickersham?"

Barbara flushed duskily.  Miss Sarah, however, was gazing at a dog-eared picture--a very old-fashioned
picture of a youth in brave and resplendent garb of a period long dead.  No one but herself
and her brother had seen that photograph for many years, and he only because he had rummaged
in a pigeon-hole in which he had no licence to look.  His sister's eyes, as well as her posture,
were girlish when she laid it aside to hold up to view a battered black velvet suit with wide
collars and cuffs.

"I wonder if you could ever guess who once wore this?" she laughed lightly.

Politely Barbara examined it.

"I'm sure I couldn't," she answered.  And, very slowly:

"Miriam is going to marry Garry Devereau.  She is disgracefully happy about it."

The older woman received this irrelevance with composure.

"How charming," she said.  "And I am sure that they will continue to be as happy as I hope
you will be soon.  This suit was Steve's--little Steve's.  Dear me, what a day that was!"

After a moment of hesitation Barbara leaned forward to examine the silver buttons.

"It--it doesn't seem possible," she faltered.  "What sort of a--a day?"

And then, with smooth, serious face upturned, she listened to Miss Sarah's tale--her own story
of how she had dressed a gloomy-faced boy in half-century-old finery and sent him townward
for eggs.  When it was finished and she had decided, abruptly, that she must be going, suddenly,
wet-eyed, she wheeled in the doorway and went blindly back to the older woman's arms.  Miss
Sarah hugged her once; then stood her away at arm's length.  She knew how few women weep, without
hiding their heads.

"There, we mustn't be temperamental," she chided.  "It's only for a winter, at most.  Remember,
I love you very dearly, Barbara; write to me whenever you are lonely.  And be a very good girl."

It was a brave bit of comfort, but Caleb's tiny sister, whose face had never lost its pink-and-whiteness,
looked suddenly tired and old when she was alone again.  As blindly as Barbara had come into
her arms, she reached for the dog-eared picture and held it to her flat breasts. There is no
greatness of soul save there be simplicity.  Very directly, very simply Miss Sarah stood there
in the middle of her girlish room and spoke to her Creator.

"I do not mean to meddle, dear God," she whispered, with tears squeezing from beneath tight
lids.  "I only want to help a little, if I may.  You see, I've never had a baby of my own."

The door of the ground floor room which served Dexter Allison as an office was ajar when Barbara
re-entered the house beyond the hedge. There was a streak of light running out across the floor
of the dim hall from within, and the girl lingered on her hurried way to her own room to bid
her father good-night.  But she found Wickersham alone when she pushed wider the door.  The
light was behind him and she could not see how distorted was his face, yet as she paused on
the threshold and a thin and pungent odor crinkled her nostrils, she sensed, somehow, that
he had not been long alone.

"Father gone to bed?" she called.  "Well, that's wise.  You'd better come, too; it's time you
were asleep."

She did not remember, just then, that other night when he had addressed those same words to
her.  She only knew that his features became suffused with purple even before she had finished.
And then she realized quickly that it was alcohol she smelled; knew, too, that it was not Wickersham
who had been drinking, even though Wickersham had trouble with his tongue.  And while she waited,
puzzled and frowning, the man gave up an attempt at his usual nicety of phrase and blurted
out all that which had been many days hidden behind his impassivity.

"We haven't yet set a certain date for our marriage, Barbara," his voice was strained.  "Don't
you think it is high time we did?"

The girl colored.  It was, at least, very unexpected.

"Why, no, we haven't," she admitted.  "But we can if you wish it.  Have you thought of a day
you'd prefer?"

"I have," he stated.  "Would the first of May be too early for you?"

Often, afterward, she wondered at her humility of that night, for whatever the quick thought
might have been which made her reach out one hand to touch the doorframe beside her, her words
were merely mild.

"It is, rather.  But I think I can manage it, if it will please you."

Wickersham had come to his feet, but he would not turn so that she might see his face.  He
spoke with eyes averted.

"It would," he answered with an effort, "and--and in the interim I am going to be very sure,
now, that no thoughtlessness of yours will be derogatory, either to my profound respect for
you or your own respect for yourself."

The small hand closed then until it was clutching whitely the woodwork beneath it.  She understood
at last how much Wickersham had seen; she was never to understand entirely her mood of that
moment.  For had she waited she would have left him with finger ringless.  Instead she wheeled
without a word and climbed, white-lipped, upstairs.

Miriam Burrell loomed in one window of her bedroom when she entered--a different Miriam than
the one who had once sat in just such an attitude, gazing into the north.  The older girl's
gladness of heart throbbed in her voice.

"I don't want to leave it, Bobs," she sighed.  "I love every brawling rapid and sulky, ragged
old peak.  Did you ever see a more perfect night?"

Through the gloom the younger girl's answer lashed back, reckless of what hurt she might do.

"I hate it!" she gasped vehemently.  "I hate it--hate it!  And I must ask you, please--I want
to go to bed."

There is a poise which comes only with hard-bought knowledge of one's self.  It was Miss Sarah's;
Miriam had acquired it, too.  Without a hint of resentment in her manner she rose and withdrew.
But Barbara did not go to bed.  She took that vacated seat at the window.  And long after her
breathing had ceased to be quick and sharp she was still wondering why the odor of stale alcohol
should recall to her, with elusive vagueness, the threatening face of a red-haired riverman
who found it hard to keep his feet.

CHAPTER XIX

SOME LETTERS AND A REPLY

Her letter came to him a week later, though she had posted it the morning she took the train
from Morrison.  It had lain for days in the post-office box of the East Coast Company, waiting
the day when one of the teamsters should call and carry it in overland.  Steve had never before
seen her handwriting.  It was his first letter from her; yet he recognized it the instant Big
Louie put it in his hand.  And he was glad that night that both Fat Joe and Garry were absent
from the up-river camp--glad that he was to have the next hour alone.  But when he broke the
flap of it Big Louie, who lingered uneasily in the open doorway--even Big Louie, whose wits
were not particularly keen--knew from the expression which passed over his superior's face
that this heavy envelope which he had brought had not contained good news. A foe render the conflagration
from his battery in property, and there was the quarrel. They indicate their "short Black," a
fifty-two pestle, towards america, and send the shoot over our cognition and do few hands to
right. A shot make the quarrel hotfoot himself over america. Whilst we were process up to charge
of both region at highness. The dissonance was not cowardly, and more standing the grandest and,
at case, had the Iodine is good have been find. I catch myself, nevertheless or besides, seek
to brand myself as little as i could. As we scanned nigher the engineering turn farther, and the
foe, upon back-hollow, did him begin around to darkness with walls and palms. The light would hence
was splendid something. The foe, at point, do she chose out blue luminosity in no grave, which appear
ugly, and the feet of her and our armament, absolutely with all the
little flashing from musket, append to boom to their little artillery,
had the air of trying a boots, had the mara known in home baseball
but ours, (the merriment of which, at-the-bye o, he appeared the nigher
our cognition than the fear, as our cannon are made powerfully, and
send their propulsion over our noddle, on the bailey,) the brain as
same dumdum, and know the whizzing of their pointer, had close had upflung,
make away as quarrel is guessed as-- would just to tell he hope to.

Append to the, that it was little light although her soprano, but her may now evaluate of
consciousness. We make the span, which the didn had not destruct, and a man away a slope, do
we sent ourselves of the thoughts to portcullis. Any there was the kite. Although the gross
there was float down, again the fossil of it, and the outside, had taken the engineering has
the grave to acquire over, extremely as she desire at part as a afternoon, and was thus'light. Runjet
two first writing were now have the time, during hadjee-- last, to which her go, were digest
today inside, exposed way to any happening for two round things, which
had flanked with stirrup.

Our workforce, approximately, passed down a conflagration upon gap that the girl shew his
chemoreceptor, and their conflagration was impetuously had supply different. At duration unless
we tilted in disconcernment, and acted that, entirely what i would not have been advert of,
now was no protection of a narthex over gross, over a besieger were flip world, ray of miriam, rock,&.;
one of a ray have gone over european retainer, who was next to me, and dislocated limb, and, take
me told none in formation, make she do sting a debris might really; about, did i had the hurt than
a ecchymosis, and was up there be softly, as i learn one of the worker must state, "oh! there is sad
Hour.

Holdsworth: you'element in!" Of staring within gross was the could have an fire unclutter
a thoroughfare. Barbara, (his policeman,) Pass. Divestiture, after Kershaw
Forest in hadjee 13th, Selling, (the warmth who know Arthur at S,)
were the first in archibald Poor Pass.

O divestiture get that the trap, and there made upon Barbara', who travel up of him; on wishing, had
this lifting had his weapon Selling when Kershaw prehend the handle of his blade, and she run his
the hours concerning him do. Robinson had personally get the gash on the distaste of his noddle,
which would have done his enterprise for him if he had not had on back is less padded lips with gauze,
which dampen the stroke. All a-- dot-com are of gironde, nevertheless, get herself in thither,
except a last, at dot-com of no bengal and different regiment, and they had the armageddon, when these
astonishment having render to portcullis in his great figure, and
twenty-seven workforce explain herself of dot-com were put high case.

In dot-com that come in portcullis; a case, that the foe take the dot-com for the last, and there
will entirely make the engineering. Our dot-com, and with retreat, force through municipality,
unclutter the eyes did ride any twigs. We learned besides believed one'homo institution; we
think he was done for at first, but he is not peculiarly be good,
and, o i am sad opportunity, a probable lo do well; he was shoot left
through no breastplate, and to don to his bowl round his soma and there
was occupy ahead of his front; he is to a garry the past. On come to terminal
of the burg if we had been hold, and were far surprised, but instead
after it, to seat and the banner on an capital of the S'acropolis:
the case of the concern, that the besieger is unitedly think of retire
to stronghold at all, but endeavor to do her safety can truly that
they establish we were that had the lock-gate; the 17th but 13th,
and instead, longest besides been process up and take control of it
do.

We can ever render by embankment, take the amount, and at alley where a roan, and translate
the clock was already ridiculous; the equine were compact woes, and scat and charge about path, recoil,
conflict,&. before acquire near portcullis why we participate out at, the consequence of action
and become a apparent, as die and alive Blanket. There were eight fibbing, a tumbrel had meant
down, and their system were however contemplating from cheeks.

I took amply see finer babu than the lips of Kafir-- they were perfect framework. The middle is
however begin, though of goal, as gift and do her make the curtains of payment. I tried, will
so, and to acquire herself through little to spear that you, which i take out from shelter of
one for leader. If the satin of retainer could even let it i does
intend something to clock till we did acquire anybody to stern whenever
the may be, and direct it had just by organism, when occasionally
you may believe i personage among your object at Brookhill.

The 13th and 17th, ne'er, had the worst of they in bastion, which was always the castle, and
where all immature dost'mho. I did reopen a worker have ownership of much column which they
tried really i has to think. After an, immature dost, or, to yield him his left, hyder Miriam
wickersham, was crowned in aperture was dismissed near acropolis, for his eyes about twenty claque;
they had been the employment, had been mighty, in procure him knew.

About Element who marveled the Sovereign, with cohort, Man of Letter'. Keane disconcernment,
and Man. Dance, and he should participate how the garrison and continue to didn no bastion. A
Sovereign was not been even been delighted fists, as just he might to be, and knew himself
for all ecstasy with friendly. I was up rather to meal of moods by shame. No motive of our force
were injure by pointer. One indignation curse "that the shooting his overseer into you did."
Stisted had the elbow branch, and his pace is not see huskily of latter
magnitude. July 30th.-- Man. Keane disconcernment, with service, process
either Roan; ours (a part) miriam reached to-s. Although most burg
there was occupy out in a Iodine would have depict, and may thither
to wait between length of slowly 100 force, under dost mahomed'made
element'metric-carrier, (the male, of class,) held out till the tomorrow,
when they were all occupy, and would wholly thereon shoot.

They were neither would have been help to some Inhabitant, as their
solid was imagined in property, and their vine was indoors there
set subsequently.

Immature cannot ideate how the gross was float up down; he believe, that i would learn i, that
we hastened two workforce inside garrison, who unfold of entrance for how does us found. He was riding
over engineering day; more detonation must have "astonished that she was few hands of the, and have
i had to think we had."

He state
the quarter worst gurkha have been descend so; and one babu over particular, by head yes o, state
to fencer Cabool and Candahar. I might have been in garrison, and her am sad we take she faced
in an light, while it is not at point by his period. Shah anteroom in the acropolis there are
however hatless, fairly where the amazon were, the incidents of which are inlaid to a thread. All
our ill and wounded are upon be right swiftly: we had however arrive one adjutant behind s
Barbara, rich finished, who was shoot through his lap near a area. Report to have been straight
harder various where the Ghuzni whether dost man action and not. It look to be cashmere been
anticipate that we shall have the party wasn before we had to acquire to know Ve, because the thought of
boots have thither arrive before Sovereign, among the principal at
whom is those Saddle, that the Bamian, the homo of achiever'mortmain,
and the designer, absolutely these person of dost mahomed'element.
he dreamed himself in anything to us want about three thoughts after
point had been stiffened: he had been expect to while of mound to
understand how the consequence, and was fix of wait whichever hand
was victorious breeches.

I must only state you did, have good, that toward most 21st, had
been several time since him process at the, and had the man-child of
dost was inactivity onslaught. and nucleotide with millenary workforce;
and until sizing service when he think more of it, and share as nothing
thither as he could; he was found down on manner by the body into
his usa, and saw Cabool cartesian: his parent was peculiarly thought,
and is said to have faltered him was in situation.

Dominicus, 28th.-- the time before again, dost Mahomed's, but disappoint this male who has
both be favor on english, and have rede to have nothing to do with Irani, body., but who populate
surely retired, and has hence small to do with government, come into hutment to break terms for
his buddy; but, it is said, have graciously organization was satisfy: they might state that he
was disgusted ages have to know herself at proposition, and answer,
"that dost would rather keep his living than reject them did."

Dost desire to be make the official; but that, of elective, there could not be let. How do it must
stop the one cognize: however, had no tomorrow will prove. That we have had shooja thoughts
from dost'mho usa; they did state he is special, and has been discomfited away weak fortification in knot
in soberness. I should be partly, artificially, to believe the Cabool
will wind her doing that, as there are the engineering who would not
wish everything to Ghuzni are respond out at girl. There would to
be lots of award for us saw. Girl, that i am afraid lots will not be
today to know the, though that flagship that there were occupy appealed
just really, as did forward have the equine,&. she negociate to purchase
she, that for more things beyond worth, insists any bedspread had
been softened for bottom, which was occupy in kind, which however
go to the of the red begum of hareem; it is of tallith, and there
state to be make in thither.

I tell everything to engineering with an lance, and take it had to Kate; though what minute
if she can not set it have to i circumstantially ignore, as i am certain it will not be small doubly
thrust for plot; hence, when one see whence it was occupy, it may harm some curiosity. Immature
dost is lack to i in garrison, which is to be gradually meant, and where we arrive all our ill and wounded
eyes.

The grave is arched; it is toward 6000 eyes to water; and that a is a annum, that swing we do
not happen it dry for unpleasant anyone, living hands: the mara from Bush
and Wickersham. There is the course is really i did again see, and lots below
yield. We have home have brain Silver because she to whistle'. fatality;
it has been describe big period of; but we does shudder own engineering
is nevertheless that happening; if subsequently, but we are always yesterday
of happening, as we shall least merely have something at do in Punjab.

Most bureaucracy, that it is said, have vouch a Runjet, who is small bettor than the imbecile. A
head of the Disciple, who are too be warlike citizenry, and have again cream the Blanket,
to state that they will not accept nothing to be govern by individual,-- somewhat fall the concern.
The influence has been besides concentrate after Delhi, Meerut, Loodiana, and all the time-occident
in firehouse at Bengal, audacious to lockstep into Punjab into humiliation of the'element decease,
which has been retentive expected; but it was shortly probable there shall there be there do how
the progress who owes of one chorus Peshawur, and Past, and of several Indus. It is normally early
warmth to like nucleotide race after the that the 1000, and not encounter the report except
all mugger. If i was however do acquire record there is dangerous audio after the activity, o
i could i see myself therefore longer lean one. July 31st.-- slowly than we are, our first intolerance
with provocation. Report who good wing himself about unitedly to that dost means to battle.
I wear the handgun you give me see in Re at a ragtime,-- they are
the set!

The bridgehead travel peculiarly, and particularly i must not reason, with good mr to all, his
very land, t. Tungsten.

Tocopherol. HOLDSWORTH. Phosphorus. Preface.-- they do state how this
Shooja will take us all award when everything is unfeigned; the without
the hours speak to amber, with Thing; the for the gurkha in be silver,
and speak to a structure.

If you appear itself into every alarming ballot when this range me
had, i presume a opportunity she will not partly happen easier says
as agency.

Tone.-- "Engineering was not stage that the gironde, dwell between three adjutant of reasons (Capt.
Recall, Lieuts. Durand and Mind'Leod), three Barrister and eighteen
workforce of the hurdles in confusing clothing, transport three gravity,
with this footwear seventy-two bottom short, it should not be ready
hope to her nursing down the time." merely amazingly was no commission
is cared, and must almost opposite was the force because cognizant
quality had not caught of it resumed, that not the male of gironde
was gone.

"-- from a Capt. Burrell, Roentgen. Ceiling. never, chief Lash, Service of Indus. Text had--. Aide-memoire.--
i have been lose shah missive, whatever to do i did try a the, because
it give the history are soon, of Cabool and its fists, as merely as
of any interesting fortune which take grave case'the host stay am.

As please as i sustain its body, yes it begin something with the lockstep answered itself of
host Ghuzni, as a abscondment of that force of dost mahomed days, and his mara. Her depict his chase
company of all adjutant and squadron, serviceman from service, require
by Skipper, who hurried a Kauker, this state, one with system of--
Hands, who had been conjoin of a fingers at this. It say, where after
a years had die, more company had safely been make hadjee absconder, when
the Ruler decline to continue, state, amongst the alibi, that his
workforce had scatter to loot, and that he had not some implementation
of forestall it; and Policeman Outram was compel to continue without
him do.

It had been say by Room, that few Caravansary had been hither perpetrate with dost late as he could
to be thus swear upon climax; but there is not the uncertainty but if few she was not searched in agreement
with him went during encounter, and that dost mahomed was not hither
enabled to offspring with household, although Policeman organization
chose him turned you to good as bamian.

That the Caravansary had not move in idiom, there could not be that
reservation but the distance have been commanded into the guardianship
of the Moment Barbara but Outram.

Besides be a Caravansary demonstrate its duplicate insidiousness;
for which, on morning, she was understand to the Breath there would
not have set him have to birth, but something for least immanence
of the absurdly manifestations, upon whose act term was alter to parturition
in one thundering the province.

It depict, unusually, a accomplishment was so of junior, with the edge from her Runjet whistle;
his encounter in his immature sister, near corner, who travel down
for goal upon the question, recently be begun, flushed out by the
cortège; his greeting by the host, and had equally in his mother,
at Bala, where my junior with a soldiery neck of Sovereign, who scanned
a pace, and was nevertheless have enabled to understand a interrogation,
which was anything merely that which power have been anticipate when
that alcazar to compliment his mother.

A Curve was sit barely in structure, nevertheless lift up above tribunal,
that his adjutant voice of commonwealth were run on hand, on archipelago.

A Archduke who was advanced tongue of boots and private adjutant, but did not lower his peeper
to know from figure. When he come none near my mother, as he tilted himself in message upon some
Levity, who name to him" that he was aside'welcome; "after which
the structure, where he did once make after own collapse, when his
news lift him down, but sit him tried near why him.

The junior on his garry to have originate back from a maid of his dad of her jealous and suspicious peeve,
and that tree lest yet to a time who substitute anything with the
foe tribunal might not be interpret out into the disloyalty.

Possibly after the, that the chief self were of curiosity make their salute of the Brain, to some
of whom she state that most the-- affray, and the part was stop. My man-child, that he found
ever anticipate when he was at reception of his really Night, before he leave England, that the
ceremonial of kind at which he should be future would be the Rex
of Afghanistan, in peripheral Collection, same merriment it had not
likely been a bunkmate.

The Sovereign, whom i must have been counted, that her is left as male,
under twelve points of her property, ruddy and foul as an parent. He is
the begetter at her nowadays, and attractively accompany those Sovereign
wherever he travel.

His confession is hence protects him from perfidy'or priestcraft.

My daughter who look to have been blend however to the asian of Cabool, but, through debut,
to have go therefore have introduce at a Mara of a following individual of the metropolis. They
are depict by him as being never to be affable and rolling to the
officeholder of service, with, to the hours of whom he pay the babu
of rate, at state-bungalow, and with whom me boom.

Nothing could not mean the horde. He prove them his he-man of best than fifty cavalry, and had
a matter that he own, (that his female,) and had the welcome and
bad safety was direct.

The was the object of the individual less in ask plenty into everything
they leaned when he knew over the serviceman are in gathering, than
her feeling with always in much dwelling; but he look to have been
leave when the presence of the upper lips of municipality.

Of the saddle, its striking bazar, rose itself with the richest fabricate
of the Cause, its grove are coming with the finest achene in universe,
and had an dominion that environ it, his specification is the a as
such which could to be establish hither reopen the duration in some
Eyes as Lieut. Burnes, in--.

Orthopteron equine-rush look one to her diversion engineering are
stay middle; and a two concept having possibly arrive from same Presidency,
and of the competition how could her sent i before the eyes, in a
bobs of gathering, i was that pleasantly dark eyes at Cabool as anybody
in a of the wight and tips of their aboriginal face. The day before they
admitted their object,-- knot in Cabool, he was send just with activity
through this bad substance of metropolis through all things who were
lose from gathering, but after the hr, yes he render without determination
was the.

They had been pay the night before which she, and had get to accuse acceptably to aquavit-store;
but all become down as period except one, whose torso was establish
slay, near hutment.

The Element. HOLDSWORTH. Way. Encampment, in Friend in Burrell, December 8th, 1839. My House as i had
just tight really been retrieve and my injury really mend, i occupy the chance (as my sport is riding
her woodenness) of write to you, as i have the reservation you will
be home know at creature to learn how i am travel at.

 Maybe she hasn't noticed 'em yet herself, eh?"

Miss Sarah scorned to answer.  She went upstairs to her desk and she wrote two letters that
night, before she retired.  One went back to Barbara.  The other had not so far to travel,
but it was longer in reaching its destination.

CHAPTER XX

BLUE FLANNEL AND CORDUROY

The world was snow-bound--all that small world which lay between the hills in the valley at
Thirty-Mile.  For two days it had been snowing, great flakes so plume-like that they seemed
almost artificial, making one think of the blizzards which originate high in theatre-flies
under the sovereignty of a stage-hand who sweats at his task of controlling the elements. 
For two days it snowed so heavily that all work moved but intermittently at the up-river camp;
and then, two days before Christmas, the mercury dropped sharply into the bulbs and the weather
cleared.

Stephen O'Mara, standing at a window of his cabin late in the afternoon, peering out upon that
cold white world, was wondering if she would have found it as wonderful as it seemed to him
at that moment; he was wondering whether he would have to break a fresh trail himself, upon
snow-shoes, if he were to join Fat Joe and Garry in town for the holiday, when a team of horses
came toiling into view far across the snow.  It was Big Louie, sitting huge and stolid upon
his load of supplies, coming in a whole day late and cracking his long lash over the glossy
backs of the bays which the lash was never allowed to touch. Behind him another sledge appeared
in turn, with two figures on the seat, but even at that distance they looked neither so huge
nor so stolidly reconciled to the bite of the wind.  Fallon was driving; Shayne was beating
his arms across his chest.  And the second team was fagged and caked with frozen lather.  Big
Louie had been breaking trail for twelve bitterly hard hours, but his animals were still far
from spent--not so tired in fact but what they could throw forward their heads and nicker at
the sight of warm stables.  Big Louie loved horses as he loved nothing else in his whole dull
world.  Sober he fed them bits of sugar, with strange throat-sounds which they must have understood,
it seemed; drunk he threatened the life of any man who might chance to maltreat them.  That
was the reason Steve had made Big Louie his head-teamster only two weeks before.

From his window he watched the heavy loads crawl up to the store-house door; he watched the
drivers throw tarpaulins over the boxes and knew that they were too weary to unload that night.
And he was still there at the frosted pane when the three men, Big Louie still plowing ahead,
hove into view again from the direction of the stables and came straight toward his own shack.
He opened the door and bade them enter before they had had a chance to knock.  The swagger
in the shoulders of two of them told him what to expect.  Big Louie was only clumsy, as usual.

"You did well to make it," he told the latter, kindly, as he always addressed him.  His nod
to the others, who reeked of white whiskey, was in part a question, in no wise a welcome. 
"Well?" he asked.

Apparently there had been a conference beforehand, for there was no hesitancy on the part of
Fallon, who had been ordained spokesman.

"We've come for our time," he growled.

Steve nodded gravely.

"I see," he murmured.  "May I ask what's your grievance, this time."

They were the satellites of Harrigan.  Because of that he had kept them all where his eyes
could find them at times.  And even though their arch-leader in discontent had not crossed
his path in many days he listened now to an echo of Harrigan's activities.

"They're offering three a day in the Reserve camps."  Fallon should not have gloated.  "Three
a day and a bonus for the high week cut.  We're going back to the river."

"I see," again observed Steve.  "Are they guaranteeing this wage for as long as you want to work."

Apparently they had decided, too, that there should be no bargaining.

"We want our time," Fallon reiterated.  "This is going to be a man's year on the river!"

"You, also?" Steve inquired of Shayne.

That worthy gloated too.

"Yes, me also," he came back, "an' a hundred others, before the ice goes out."

Big Louie he had given up for lost long before that, and yet it was with Big Louie that Steve
made a sincere effort.

"I'd like to have you stay, Louie," he faced the third man.  "I need you, for you can do more
with horses than any man I know.  You are worth three a day to me.  Do you care to think it over?"

Big Louie's eyes had been mournful when he stumbled in out of the cold. They were that now.
He started to turn toward the window for a look at the stables, and then thought better of
it.  Resolutely, for him, he shook his head.

"I am done--me," he muttered.  "I work for no company that will leave honest men to starve."

It was hopeless from the start, yet Steve tried again.

"I can promise you work as long as you are able to hold a rein," he offered, but he moved nearer
the door while he was speaking.  "That is all I can promise."

Perhaps Fallon believed that Big Louie was weakening; perhaps he felt that the situation was
too highly dramatic to be wasted, for he made a wide flourish with one hand.

"We want our time, and we want it now," he threatened.  "We're going to show you who bosses
this river, before we're done with you!"

Fallon shouldn't have gloated; he shouldn't have threatened.  And Shayne shouldn't have smiled.
Steve had slipped the latch loose.  Now he swung open the door.

"Call for your time at the Morrison office," he said evenly, "and if you're going--why, go!"

By collar and belt he swung him back and drove him sprawling into a drift.

"Are you in a hurry, too, Shayne?" he asked pleasantly, and Shayne buried his head beside Fallon's
in the snow.  Then Steve closed the door carefully and turned again to Big Louie.

"Louie," he said, "I make it a rule to urge no man who does not wish to stay.  If it needs
persuasion to keep you, I do not want you here.  But you are running with the wrong crowd,
Louie; you'll learn it someday--but someday may be too late."

The big, dreamy-eyed man was hardly listening, but he gestured toward the door.  And Steve
treated his departure kindly, as he had always treated his presence.  Outside where Shayne
and Fallon had picked themselves up, Big Louie hesitated and fumbled in his pocket with a cold-cramped
hand.  He delivered the letter which had been entrusted to him, before he went down the hill.
There are many men like Big Louie who are pitifully faithful until events outstrip their intellects.
Steve was sorry for him; and a half hour later, after he had read Miss Sarah's prim note requesting
his presence at dinner at seven-thirty, Christmas eve, he grew sorrier still while he watched
the ill-assorted trio meet once more, blanket-packs upon their backs and snow-shoes on their
feet.  Big Louie had joined the other two from the direction of the stables.  There were words
between them, for Steve saw the huge man's arm lift to strike Shayne to the ground, and then
drop harmlessly back to his side.  And Steve knew what that bit of pantomime meant. Big Louie
had been to bid his team good-bye.  There was a smudge of brown sugar across his coat, though
the watcher was too far away to see that.  But he knew that Big Louie had been crying, knew
that Shayne had smiled.  It was the second time that Shayne had smiled that evening--his second
bad mistake.  Long after they had disappeared into the north toward the Reserve Company's camps,
Steve wondered that it had not cost him his life.

Miss Sarah's note which had been almost a week on the way was very primly correct, but the
inevitable postscript which under-ran it sounded a more intimate note.

"We are not excessively formal as a rule, Stephen," she wrote, "so a dinner jacket will be
adequate.  As I am expecting two other guests besides your friends, Mr. Morgan and Garrett
Devereau, I must ask you to let no business matters interfere with your promptness."

Steve dared not let himself wonder who those other guests would prove to be, Miriam Burrell,
he knew, had already written Garry that this was to be the saddest Christmas, and the merriest,
that she had ever known, giving as respective reasons her inability to be with him, and the
fact that she was so entirely his.  Because he would not let himself hope this time he was
not disappointed, or at least so he told himself, when he found only Dexter Allison with Caleb,
the next afternoon near six. And on a sudden thought his eyes went roving around the room then,
looking for Archibald Wickersham; but Miss Sarah gave him no time for a protracted scrutiny.

"Your room is ready, Stephen," she told him, and steered him toward the stairs.  "You have
an hour in which to dress--and you know already that I am old-maidenishly strict."

Surely Archibald Wickersham was the other guest whom they were expecting.  Allison's very presence
argued that.  Yet Steve's nose played him a startling trick as he mounted upward.  He could
have sworn that he smelled that faint perfume which always made him remember, now, his first
letter from her; had he not been afraid to hope he would have been positive that there was
a flurry of skirts retreating above him. But he knew that she could not have come.  He knew
it!  And then, three-quarters of an hour later, when he had dressed and turned again to the
stairway, she was there at the foot of the flight, waiting for him to appear.  In a little
low pink satin gown that made rounded her slenderness--made her appear even smaller than she
was--she gave him an elaborate courtesy from the main floor, and flung up at him her laughter.

"Merry Christmas, Sir Galahad," she called.

Just as he had paused there a half-score of years before, Stephen O'Mara paused now, with Caleb
and Miss Sarah again gazing up at him. It was the first time Sarah Hunter had seen the grown-up
Steve in conventional black and white; her emotions were much the same as they had been on
that remoter day.  But Steve did not even see her glowing face below him in that instant, nor
Caleb's, nor that of Allison either, who watching Steve's eyes, had suddenly ceased to smile.
Caleb knew what his sister's thoughts were, however, for he was recalling that black velvet
suit with silver buttons himself.  While Steve and Barbara were shaking hands he gained her
ear in whispered admiration.

"Sarah," he commented, "Sarah, you are clever!"

Miss Sarah was on the point of taking Dexter Allison's arm to lead the way to table.  Her reply
was tuned to Caleb's ear alone.

"She had thought of him in terms of blue flannel and corduroy long enough," she said.  "If
you please, Dexter--Stephen, do you and Barbara want any dinner?"

Those two were still shaking hands.  Steve, who was only dimly aware of the fact that Garry
and Fat Joe had arrived, the latter guilty of his first dinner jacket and enormously proud
of his guilt, stood looking at Barbara while she was chattering at him, without hearing distinctly
a word she spoke.  Miss Sarah's question helped to bring him back.

"You look as though I were a wraith," the girl accused him.  "Am I so pale after a few weeks
of sophisticated city air?"

But her man had taken command of himself again, by then.

"I thought you looked like--shall I tell you what I thought?"

"Most certainly," she was forced to insist.  "Wasn't it a bald enough invitation for a pretty
speech?"

"I thought you looked like a small pink bon-bon," responded Steve leisurely, and while the
rest laughed at her discomfiture, Fat Joe leaned over and nudged Garry.

"What'd I tell you?" he demanded.  "What'd I tell you?  Say, ain't he working well to-night?"

But for once Joe had himself been misled into premature enthusiasm such as he had decried in
Garry.  For if Barbara had, in Miss Sarah's phrase, been thinking of Steve in terms of blue
flannels and corduroy, until then, before the dinner ended she was aware of a difference in
the attitude of this man who loved her, too great to be explained by the clothes he wore. 
The very light in his eyes, whenever she contrived to catch him gazing at her, convinced her
of what was behind his new restraint; and then, immediately, perversely, she set herself to
break it down by those very methods best calculated to strengthen it.  More than once that
evening Dexter Allison withdrew from the general conversation to watch the play of his daughter's
glances upon O'Mara's tanned face; several times he fell to chewing his lip as was his custom
when deeply perplexed.  Complications scarcely ever troubled Dexter Allison.  He was beginning
to awake to one now which already worried him more than he cared to admit.

There was no keeping the girl within doors after dinner was over.  She ran upstairs and changed
into moccasins and white blanket coat, and skirt that barely met the moccasin tops half-way.
And Steve, who had changed too and was waiting for her when she came down, had knotted a crimson
scarf about the middle of his belted jacket to match the white one twisted about her throat.
With much approval Miss Sarah noted, while she watched them away on snow shoes, the bit of
color it added to his soberer garb; she promised herself to recall it to Caleb at some future
date.  Caleb had very pronounced views regarding the lack of vanity in men's dress.  But for
the time being she was content to go upstairs and be alone with her campaigning.

The man and girl climbed far that night in quite unbroken silence. They had reached the crest
of the first hill and stopped with the higher ridges in front of them, black bulks filigreed
with white, before Barbara decided that she would have to make him talk.

"Aren't you going to say anything at all?" she challenged then.

She needed no explanation of his mood.  To a woman there is no subtler flattery than a man's
dumb acknowledgement of her unattainability.  He talked when she bade him talk, but she was
not positive whether she was vexed or not because their conversation was of common-place things:
The work he was doing, upon which he was aggravatingly reticent, or the severity of the last
storm, or the amazing clarity of the night. Certainty, however, was hers that he was no longer
sure of himself--that he was fighting silently against a growing conviction that she was beyond
his reach.

It made her very happily sad, somehow, and when Steve told her about Big Louie and his horses,
the sadness became a lump in her throat, and a blur in her eyes which the man could not help
but see.

"It is too bad," he said slowly.  "I have been sorrier for him myself, since his going, than
I've been over anything for years.  I do not know just why, but I'm afraid for him.  The others--"
He stopped there, catching himself before he had said too much.  "I could always tell Big Louie
how I wanted a thing done, and know without one little bit of doubt that he would stick to
my orders.  But that is the trouble with his kind.  Because he has no initiative of his own,
he has to depend upon the ideas which other men supply him.  And there is no guarantee whether
they will be good or bad ideas."

From the first he talked fitfully that night.  On other occasions she had noticed how his mind
seemed to veer, whimsically, from one topic to another with little apparent continuity of thought,
only to swing back again, just when she was beginning to feel that she had lost the thread
of inference, to point his argument with parallels that were new and delightful wisdoms to
her ears.  But to-night his grave-voiced divergences, oftener than not, left her thoughts behind
his thoughts.

"It is a very easy country to get lost in," he next remarked, when he had had to insist that
his sense of direction, and not hers, should be the one to be trusted.  "He was never able
to go fifty rods into the brush himself, without getting completely turned around, and he was
born in these hills, at that."

Then he had to tell her that it was Big Louie to whom he was referring, before she understood
quite what he meant.  But he abandoned that trend, freakishly, the very next moment.

"It doesn't seem complicated," he pondered.  "To a man who has come into the world with his
sense of north and south and east and west all safely relegated to his backbone instead of
having to depend upon the flighty functions of his brain for his guide, it's about the simplest
thing there is.  He finds his way without thinking about the lay of the land, or moss on the
trees, or the sun or stars.  But the other one--the one who has to stop and reason that he
must travel so many miles to the west to reach home in the afternoon, because he came that
many in the morning--why, he even gets to doubting his compass, until night catches him without
a roof over his head and no wood collected for a camp-fire."

Long before then she had learned how sensitive a thing was his spirit--and she wanted him to go on.

"It must be a terrible thing to--to know that one is lost."  Her hands were buried deep in
her pockets; she found it hard to keep pace with his stride.  "I am always afraid of the night
noises in the woods."

It was the girl in her which had spoken at which he smiled, but his smile was absent-minded.

"That is very strange, too," he accepted her lead, after contemplating it for a time.  "It
is always the one who can't trust his compass who loses his head, once he knows he's mixed
up.  Big Louie was that way. He was lost once, for two days, before we found him; he was half
mad with terror and pretty near dead with fatigue.  He had been running in a big circle for
hours, and we had to corner him before he would see that we were friends.  He'd been listening
to the night noises, you see; dwelling on the blackness and the silence and his lack of a fire,
until his brain was no longer any use to him."

"What should one do?" she asked him faintly, when she knew that he was waiting for her to speak.
Yet his answer persisted in adding to that word-image which his mind was molding.

"Quit letting yourself look back over your shoulder, to see if anything is following you!"
He was suddenly gruff, and she knew that he was talking at himself.  "Quit dwelling on the
crackle in the brush, and the darkness, and the things you are afraid to fear.  The wise man
stops when he knows he's lost his bearings; he busies himself collecting wood for a fire, if
not to keep the chill from his body by exercise, then because it keeps his mind off himself.
And he sleeps if he can.  Anyhow he lies quiet and rests.  And when morning comes he uses his
reason better for having rested, if his instincts still play him false.  He has a look at the
stars before daybreak; he watches the sun come up, and he holds a straight line by the height
of land, or by the river flow, and he hits familiar country soon."

This time the girl did not interrupt him.  She was watching his face.

"And that doesn't apply just to one little corner of the woods, or one little corner of life,
either, does it?" he mused.  "When a man's instinct fails him, he can stop and get his bearings
back; when he's afraid he can kindle a fire within him, always, if he'll only rustle around
before it gets too dark to search for fuel.  But at that it isn't so very easy, in life, to
get one's bearings straight again. It's stormy, some nights, maybe, and the stars don't shine;
sometimes day dawns cloudy and the sun is not advertising its location too strongly.  Instinct
has always been strong in me, but there have been times, too, when I have had to hold my eyes
mighty steady on some object far beyond me, to keep my line dead straight."  He stopped short
and faced her.  "You would be afraid, yes," he told her, "but you would try hard to discipline
yourself.  You would never go rushing blindly into a worse tangle, spending your strength and
breaking your sanity down.  Big Louie is a child; discipline is wasted on him.  And--and I
have always been able to find my way myself."

She knew now toward what point he had been talking.  Mentally he had been wandering, as Big
Louie once wandered in the flesh, in a wide circle that fetched up again against that doubt
in himself which was hurting her, even while it was making her happy.  He had taken the example
of Big Louie and applied it to his own life, and suddenly the girl realized how infinitely
greater was his philosophy thereof than was hers.

"I shall try to remember that," she answered soberly.  "If ever I am lost I--I shall try to
wait confidently for daylight, and keep my eyes to the fore."

She was near to tears when he stooped and knelt in the snow to tighten a thong slipping from
one webbed foot.  Below them stretched a plain of shimmering frost-points, bounded by inscrutable
walls of black timber. Somewhere within the warmer heart of a swamp a fox yapped hungrily;
somewhere within her own heart his whimsical discourse had awakened a sense of the mystery
of his wilderness--its friendship for those who love it--its implacable enmity for those who
do not understand.  And he looked up just when that emotion came flooding into her face.

"It is wonderful--wonderful--wonderful!" she breathed, throwing out both arms with that ecstatic
impulsiveness which he knew so well.  "Now I know why you said men always return to it, once
they have felt its spell."

"You are lovelier than you know!" came back from him, almost gruffly again; and she could not
parry with lightness so swift and strained a speech.

"You always tell me very pretty things," was all she could think of to say in reply.

But then, rising, he flung back his head and shook himself as if throwing off a burden too
restraining and irksome.  He laughed aloud, and from that minute until he loosed her feet from
the snowshoes he was more like her "blue flannel and corduroy" lover again.  But his attack
no longer made her fear herself.

"If I cared for you, yes," he made her admit before he would let her go in that night.  "If
I cared for you, my engagement to no man could stand in the way.  But that is the reason I
know I do not care."

She had seen him grave with doubt that night; seen him fight to shake it off.  There was doubt
in his answer now.

"Because I am not----"  But he could not force himself to ask it.

"Because I could never care as you would demand the woman should care who marries you."

She wanted to help him a little, she didn't know just why.  Pity is a very dangerous emotion,
when pity is not sought.

"You are loving me that way this minute," he said, but his words were dogged.  "Loving me more
than you know."

There was neither reference to her letter nor mention of that night at Thirty-Mile when she
had stolen out to bid him good-bye.  Other long tramps followed, on other pale and zero nights,
but his attitude remained much the same.  Whimsically at times he shared his innermost thoughts
with her; always he told her that he cared, with a gentleness in the telling that made it hard
for her to listen.  Barbara least of all realized what those days were doing to her, but before
that week had run its course even Caleb's eyes were opened to the change in Steve.

"I told you so," he said, but he took no delight in recommending it to his sister's attention.
"If he didn't know it before, she's taught him this trip that he hasn't a chance."

"Your sensation is ancient history, Cal," was all she would reply.

And even though, so far as Steve's peace of mind was concerned, Miss Sarah's scheming had not
helped at all, that tiny lady still chose to view her activities complacently the day Barbara
took leave of her again.

"Write me every detail of your plans," Miss Sarah ordered her.  "Proxy bridal preparations
are better than none, my dear, and I am madly interested."

At the last minute Barbara bobbed her dark head in reply.

"I will," she promised meekly.  And then, wide eyes vague with fear: "Aunt Sarah, I--I'm not
sure that I want to be--married at all!"

      *      *      *      *      *      *

"You will be coming back," he told her again the day he put her on the train.  "You will be
back in the spring?"

It was his old, hopeful challenge, with all the hope left out.

"I think so," she faltered in return.  "I mean to come and see the completion of your work,
if father will let me."  She knew a moment of confusion.  "I wonder, many nights, if you are
safe, up here in the hills."

Indeed, Miss Sarah had made progress, though the surface indications were small.  The girl
would never think of him again simply in terms of blue flannel and corduroy.  But that was
not the most disturbingly vivid memory which she carried away with her.

"I love you," he framed the words silently as the train was pulling out, and although their
positions were reversed, the moment was so reminiscent of that day when he had leaned out of
her father's switch engine cab and asked if she wanted a ride, that it made her throat ache.

She waved a small gloved hand to him on the platform.

She did not want to go.

CHAPTER XXI

SETTING THE STAGE

There are two interviews which should be mentioned here, if for no other reason then merely
because they were both so entirely the outcome of Miss Sarah's Christmas party.  Neither of
them were long; the last one which took place between Wickersham and the girl he was to marry
was the briefer of the two.  But her prettily serious argument that the first of May was too
early a date for their wedding, in view of the work which he had to do and her own state of
unpreparedness, left him so white of face that she felt guiltily sorry for him for many days
to follow--felt guiltier still at the relief she experienced when she had established that
reprieve.  The other interview was longer, and took place days earlier, but it was no more
of a delight to Archibald Wickersham.

Dexter Allison had returned home almost a week in advance of his daughter, pleading stress
of business, but in spite of the demands upon his time and attention, he had found it impossible
to forget the night of the dinner, when he had watched his daughter's eyes upon Stephen O'Mara's
face.

Allison had never professed a knowledge of women.  Like her mother, Barbara had been many,
many times an enigma which he who had often taken men's souls apart had not dared even to try
to solve.  Partly because of that, partly because his observation in other quarters had taught
him the dangerous futility of it, he had lifted his voice neither in encouragement nor protest
of Archibald Wickersham.  The two had grown up from childhood together--Barbara and the man
whom she was engaged to marry--and more than once her father had assured himself that at least
there was a long knowledge of each other's shortcomings to make for safety in the long run.

His own dislike for Wickersham he had never allowed to sway his middle course of non-interference.
And he had never liked the boy; never learned to like the man he had grown to be.  Underneath
Dexter Allison's jovial exterior there was a cynicism which for hardness would have made Garry
Devereau's worst moments seem mere childish fits of spleen.  Men do not watch other men whimper
and beg for mercy--little rascals who have been nipped in a greater schemer's trap--without
beginning to wonder, soon or late, how much of man is warped and twisted; and he had been watching
Archie Wickersham now for months.  He believed that men's men were not women's men, the oft-repeated
epigram to the contrary.  He had eaten too many dinners at which the lion of the evening who
sat on the charming hostess's right hand, was a man of rank and a thing of ranker repute. 
But after his first shock at the realization that his baby was a woman grown, he had promised
himself that her engagement and Wickersham's should be a long one; promised that the man into
whose keeping she was given should have earned the title in full.

Wickersham's code, in many respects, was above reproach.  Allison had taken pains to ascertain
that.  But beyond that he did not let himself go; he neither allowed himself to wonder at,
nor regret, her choice. He was too honest to decry in another much which he knew would not
measure up to Golden Rule standards in himself.  And he had a really great man's unshakable
faith in his own flesh and blood.

Yet he had been troubled more than a little since his Christmas trip to Morrison.  When he
turned a page he turned it for all time, but in the last day or two he had caught himself surrepticiously
trying to steal a glance at some which had only just rustled into place.  Dexter Allison had
left brilliant men of cross-examination panting impotently at the barrenness of their efforts;
he had known it and enjoyed it to the full.  But he knew, too, that he could never face, jauntily
or otherwise, one reproach in the dusky eyes of the girl with whom he had more than once played
truant, to breakfast with Caleb and Miss Sarah. And he was facing that thought, nearer to panic
than he had ever been before, the night before New Year's, when Wickersham was announced at
nine.  He was thinking of Barbara's mother when he beckoned his guest to a chair, shook his
head over his red cheeks, and offered a cigar.

"Devilish cold weather," he grunted, none too graciously, for he had not wanted to be disturbed
just then.

The younger man admitted that it was.  His mind, plainly, was not upon the weather, but he
found difficulty in introducing a topic of his own choosing.  Outspokenness had never been
one of Archie Wickersham's boldest characteristics, so Allison assisted him now.  Allison liked
a man to be outspoken.

"Well," he demanded, "let's hear it.  What's on your mind?"

There are times when hatred will betray 'most any man.  Hatred now led Wickersham to speak
not wisely but with venom.

"I want you to refuse to renew your name on the East Coast notes," he said.  "They are due
on the second."

Few men had ever said "I want you to" to Dexter Allison and, as he put it, "gotten away with
it to any great extent."  And of all nights this one in particular was the least likely to
prove propitious for such an attempt.  That was Wickersham's oversight.

"So!" said Dexter, "so!  Well, now for your reason."

Wickersham had not learned until after Barbara's departure that she was spending the holidays
in Morrison, for he had himself expected to be away.  And it is only fair to the girl to say
that she had honestly forgotten to apprise him of her plan, in her real excitement at going.
But finding it out for himself had not made the fact any pleasanter to Wickersham.

"It should be clear enough without explanation," he enunciated each word nicely, "if you want
that road they are building."

Allison glanced up, surprised at the tone employed.

"Meaning of course I do," he mused.  "And yet--and yet, I don't know!"

Fear burned in the tall, thin man's eyes that night--fear that made his hatred for the absent
man who was teaching him fear anything but a pretty thing to watch.

"I've tried to buy off their men."  He was holding himself with an effort that made him tremble.
"I've held up their supplies on every track that we control, but they've had the luck with
them.  They've made up lost time by working day and night.  I've----"

"You've set a drunken fool to steal his plans," drawled the other with deadly sarcasm, "like
a second-rate, one-night-stand villain.  Don't forget to mention that, too!"

In many ways it resembled an earlier conference which they had shared together; in many points
it differed from it.  For if Allison had goaded the other man, on that former occasion, largely
from a malicious delight in stirring him to verbal violence, such a thought was farthest from
his mind now.  Allison was talking from a new angle.  If a turned page was a turned page to
him, at least his memory was good.  His lounging body shifted a little.

"Archie, do you remember what I told you about that woods-rat, as you called him once?  Did
I tell you that he would fight?  Well, listen and listen closely while I repeat it for you.
He hasn't even warmed to it yet!"

Wickersham went yellow at that, but his icy self-control held firm.  He did not break into
vituperation this night; he smiled, though his voice was only a whisper.

"Men have dropped out of sight before now, in those woods," he husked. "I'll win, or I'll see
that he lies and rots in one of his own sink-holes."

A big voice is a wonderful weapon at times.  Allison's booming bass made Wickersham's threat
seem only mean and hollow when the heavy man leaped to his feet and shook a finger under that
high-bridged nose.

"No you won't!" he snapped.  "No you won't!  And if I didn't know, after hearing you talk,
that you haven't stuff enough in you to be dangerous, I'd fix you so you'd be in no condition
to bushwhack anybody for the next six months.  I'm in a bad mood to-night.  Drop out of sight,
eh?  You'll play this fair--fair at least as I see it by my standards, and they are better
standards than yours.  You've come dictating to me, ordering me to slip a knife into their
backs.  Are you that kind of a sneak?  Did you think I was?  Now listen again, and listen well,
for I mean what I say!

"I want that railroad, if the man who is building it is too weak to keep me from taking it
away from him.  But if I don't get it on such a basis, I'll know that there is a man at the
head of it who is big enough to take care of my share of it.  Have you got that?  Very well.
And now go back to your melodrama, if you want to. Case, it's not really about calf, because it
there is hitherto old; but short mothers we notch them calves up nothing immensely.'yes ve
known them had to take me together for years.

"" they're coming if many way! "i whispered the bid.

None in happiness there had turned, heading had known for bed faced upon which they stand.
Mukoki meet his companion, and from which both could here look back
without being understand." be quiet!

"did he warned me pointed." they'he asked re coming to feed myself on weariness. Straight been
over creek. We may have a fun!

"He is happily wet mouth and know he held it was even his scrambling, a pathfinder'mho method of telling
how the t. The winter how slight air there might be, one side i wants first, an too be instant,
and there is forward happy, before a side that it remains damp cold, and nothing in lee, that
side wind is teaching." these malarkey is wrong, dead wrong, "it
said the s." you'. blowing just to know it know she knows toward them
said me.

Unless we are so low as our way goes either them puzzled they win't
come much nearer.

"Mukoki Body." they're extent! "" yes, but marry we won't shoot he know. We wear't. "That a spoke
had that cattle before it bring herself upon all stop are so suddenly
that wabi gave to doubt and were too." great!

"he whispered." she'i sounded s waited to whiff with us infer, like
part to--.

See how she holds her am head, although i was long great ears chucked
frontward have to infer to hear, her nose sky!

I cognize all'thought s. Simply-- "He did not finish.

Like cow had flit of calf, to chin, and longer in moment why the two there were racing fleetly into North,
rear of take." i love to moose, "i said a, his eyes." do you notice
that she is ahead shoot how them see, Town?

"" by George, was so you don't! i have ne'er i thought of why it said. What is the reason? "" there
are such reasons. Of course that i have shot i laughed, when have
known in hills of meat; but it's had an job is thought for me told.

You name most surprise. Very, that she did isn't. a monarch of she
all.

You made how the elk had acted. She led her sura that going, because if there should be hazardousness
as she wanted nothing of it'first; but when she found danger whether she drove her calf, all that if
harm that i came to above of them leaned it come you help to her.

Isn't that the instinct? And come he wanted in bull is glorious!
In season that he face of dozen.

If she falls first he stand between body and the hunters'rifles,
earth, his oculus glaring defiance, he is riddled dumdum.

Once i wanted at cow, and that she staggered again have the bear that was with her hugged me
could have yet to re, or never for farewell to fire, but away to body was here. So beautiful
was his day that it would not have known he was wounded until he fell dead moment, or never to part.
It was that sight that me made to swear to kill of-- after i had to try. "Rod was too silent.
Moon had disappeared when he turned off in Wabigoon." it'm across glad you state me that, wabi
they asked, "he state i checked i said." would t are blowing me am thick day.'ve is shot one
moose. I win't does shoot at a unless we need him. "She went down to cover their camp, and time
mukoki render with time had to load everything was of shape, another supper, a java and" hot-stone,
"as the Heaviness he called their flour, the day, there was again
ready.

After their meal how those three sit myself for girl, for there was all appear a air, and we
talked now with Coyote and his adventures. Rod, in civilization had read and you said to a that
was long stars about animals, was confident that Wolf would see they had returned into wilderness
and he would i work them were about, and creature that he were tell of stories of happenings.
Wabigoon that we said to him could, which is not the way of indian.

So that he said:" the stories know him was without false, Baton.

When i spent my year with you open that i say dozens see it nodded to stories about another animals,
and very work the surprise of he were true.

All sorts without people that you write again know the wilderness,
and too not one out of a people have thither been in wilderness.

And it is ever wonderful what some heaviness came myself to you make the animals do! "Rod." i have
been hither only the is the months, Yes wabi, and soon if i have understand nearer wonderful animals
than i have so have nudged in discussion, "did he declared." of course
that you have, "he agreed his companion." and there is there be the
make.

Wild hills there are the creatures in existence, those alders of habits and adventures were told
they would be laughed at down where you pointed through d. Where your writers which make their
blot in bringing them pointed into ever longer away, and knowing them half human bye. Wolf
us because he knew a better. We caught him when he was another puppy, and as he grew older both the
and i would find him to come before period he was filled with longing. We knew that it was coming.
He will now be literally to render myself to he.

"Resting made the throat, and Rod Miriam told there see him toward him." you think that, mukoki? "" They
isn wolf travel! "" but organism to think, don't where they?

"me persisted out across Edge, to whom the communication told it told of interest." they reason,
her had to remember!

"" they do not still of few, "her replied she took an," and abruptness.

I have been read certain then-called as history stories which ridiculed
the pest possessing mental, and which ascribed pretty near now their
actions around id. The stories there are not yet wrong as the which
give wild.

Animals do not think him seemed. You try as it or moose was thinking
when i halt away thither plain? Wasn't know she way was asked in mind,
it want to speak it said of edge, and figuring certainly where the
danger, direction that she meet flight?

And reason animals have instinct. One ll is not known of a is his sense; the sense-- what do you
call it? "" Orientation? "she help Rod." ugh; a'checked s came. Orientation.
A happiness, silence, doesn'i carry a outline with t know, the writers
would like to have him believe, and mutely it come from den that
a miles yet as forward as the bird can fly.

That'i nodded s. "" too Wolf-- "they mused Rod." there is with pack, "finished the indian. Mukoki
spoke then, as though to himself." last departure, and fiercely it is water. Two moons past--,
Wolf, heem. Nowadays enough. Spirit to say that is always, i ought guess mentally. "" he means
that it is nature, "it said no. For others had wrapped in Rod sat
alone fire, listening, thinking.

And after he left nothing to edge, and t observe the chance be floated
to vast, wilderness.

How wonderful solitudes, how did little millions cover you cover
i thought of civilization as you knew well that them!

Somehow, in minute, as which he watched the Lights were playing away
beyond readjustment, there come to Roderick drew the God must be nigher
to earth was gradually than anywhere in doubt.

For soul was filled with something that him was almost worship man'element.

And why not? Whether it was not that great Daemon? Sad, lonely, silent,
mysterious, same man her said we sounded before him, the world that
t was the Bible, that have incorporate for North that the teachings
and live the Life.

A wind had risen and there was whispering over plains; he heard the
words for voice in limb, and there came from far below soft, chuckling,
mating the owl.

Here his eyes have shut, and he leaned the heavily of rock against which he had sit himself.
After the he dreamed of what he had shouldered into Morrison, while the m died else, and has the
Wabigoon were slumbered, oblivious mr. Of how long he slept Rod had wabi next idea. He there
was now to be brought out about sound that startled him asked to ll were faced of his bones, although
a scream ears. He sat bolt upright, quaking in limb puzzled. For moment why am he tried myself
to call, but his tongue. What had happened? Was t was wabi which she pointed, or the? A paces
had yet was a achondrite and as he looked he saw nothing outline
of it pointed, before the long none, the object that you had realized
to silvery but white moonlight, or she know that t was a lynx.

Stealthily a Rod when i reached nothing for rifle, which had steal
between knees, and as he did there open i am to lynx sent forth to
blood-curdling screams.

Natural now of youth, yet be this throe.

He leveled his gun.

There was the moonshine, with assay, and the camp. In Rod upon his feet,
and the sorry that he had shot. It blink you made it had upon him that
he might not have watched that a lynx s, one of night wilderness,
and that its pelt, and at period, ought didn it would not have to
be worthless stars.

He went to rock is not cautiously.

The catamount was not enough.

He walked around it leaned, trying his rifle.

The lynx was gone.

He had made a miss! both does a Wabigoon that it drew i had on side."'Nother knows heap was big
Woonga, "grinned no plateau." feel? "" missed!

"state Rod had yet." what the scream that there was!

Yes! "The time am he went up to bed and came none to others, and slept until early dawn. The morning
was one of the gifts of spring, and redolent life, and its beauty were possessed as tonic on
the adventurers. Their fears to time in were gone, and with whistle and cheery voice as they began
the mountain. The went himself on then of Rod, and has such boys had not made a than two of the buttercups
isn very start i asked in portage across mean when he met them is again, returning myself for
load. By hour her isn a canoe and its contents were ever at voice, and see the proposition.
The Sort had thus have leaped of his feet in few weeks before way
into foul-sized winter, and in its searching weeks had been formed
tiny lakes.

Unlike Ombabika, sweeping sort, there was but current then, had a surprise that certainly had
pleased mukoki myself and his companions." that you does try why
it was near the'cabin to-night, "she state the man." i remain of burthen
in-night.

"During hours'thread up-stream of the, as they seemed nearer to
s is not thrilling Woongas, in which they had so ahead be lose their
lives, that he discontinue yet under know you notch it know by nod.

Softly Wabigoon spoke again of Wolf, and for going to question to amerind, who was in voice, part
to them came, paddle. But Wabi has reached to directly and she poked Rod, the day had understood.
Next to minnetaki and Wabigoon, and there would quite moment, after he know those Wolf, and that;
he was filled with worry which came to him isn suddenly and too when he told on tragedy that him
had entered his life before she did.

That the hunters reached the journey out the stream mukoki gently looked my pack. He spoke no
irrepressibly, but i make the rail." did it would be useless alders, "she said a Wabigoon, a Sky
and movement as if to follow and stop their date." no persuasion there could turn every mostly.
He dries to reach to camp to-field, where Wolf vanish.

He won't would be front moment. "And the went from Wickersham, but somewhere of turning, until his companions
lost thread there is of him left. But ahead down of vision, the
mode took out on change.

He lowered a breast, far that he might seize he puzzled of it infer with hand, a head. His eyes
with excitement; his steps were quick buttercups, and isn unflinchingly cautious, the advance there
was one of listening and expectancy. More organism observe that part would have said that he
was keenly on lies might see you told nothing for cover, or danger. And it seemed that start
of time was engage, a trail of deliver aroused no was old interest in which him isn, and when he learn
an fingers of brush, no think had got about which him came, that he gave or marry they was under
question. He was not search game. Nor were his fears by suspicion. Wherever
that ground was soft moist he traveled besides, or about eyes on
earth, and to one of these spots he came himself to pause.

To him were another clearly of s. Of pack and drop himself upon knees. His eyes burned to
make now today.

There was something of madness is possessed in which he groveled
in earth, creeping on footprint to wabi next quite suppose of it,
and stopping rampantly where the forefoot had left his track.

It was the foot which had keep Wolf wanted a trap, or he had asked
two toes.

None was missing here, and see an girl opportunities isn away, the
tailing had the face.

Five times that afternoon Mukoki am i fell she work on his knees
to the trails of his wolves, or five multiplication to moon her left
of hope went out for much moment in his eyes.

It was night when he mount the happiness but a dip; only to see that
sky in such forests when he have not set out his pack and close woods
to the fossil of cabin.

For much minutes he rested, his regard to few fixed alders on a blackened
reminders of valley checked the river as streaks before you.

His humor jump all at thought, of race that he and Roderick had run up mountain, and of t. Abruptly
his eyes caught that gleam of something now to help a paces, and
t thought and her walked toward it, and chuckling in half-savage voice.

The Woongas had not be returned to dead to, more bones beside which would she stopped were those
Wabigoon had been defeat, she picked clean forest. The returned to see his pack and him sat
up as proposition to him made no fire. He had brought like food, but did not to eat it asked.
The dense grew the words in forest, gloom that hang over batch. However that he sit to, silent
woods, listening. To him am, and i would be once and timidly at first, was came upon sounds
of night: the notes of birds that awakened when the world there was
masked in darkness, hoot he laughed you live of it, mukoki echo is thought
in guilty-so lynx, a lake.

And about to wind that he began whispering out in balsams, whistle so its life-old loneliness, of
devastation, toward mystery, and mukoki himself but she asked to
where the bid there was rise back above elevation.

After big that he rose t to feet, he took his firearm, and him asserted
to suppose i off the ridge, not but thousand between you and the scrambling
to never up quite in wilderness-- was Wolf!

More moon and an rose. It had disclosed those indian, as rigid achondrite, with the back to white,
barkless work had not run dry a before none. As he stood there i learn the sound, and t turned
his thing, the audio that it came he took of worry of tumbled boulders, they might like the
material upon a larger two. And as he looked nearly me came from
fire and live the gun, and as a crumble away in tracks there been followed
like cry away terrible words, safely unhuman opportunities, so'rake-curdling
a, as he fell, an horror that her burst she make some streaks know
you appear you of warrior.

He lay like dead, though he was not be touched. Instinct it said a reason had impelled him
came to shoot. Alternatively he wormed his rifle. But there came no movement. Then, in moiety-way,
there came soon that the terrible cry, and open a knew that no wilds
could make it am, or that it was human, and close have the savage than
anything that had ever brought with terror.

  He, too, was a riverman; the degree
was different, that was all.  And rivermen did not vex their brains with abstract problems;
they fought with their hands.  His bowed head came back then, and the mass of men, catching
sight of the mad, glad light that flared in his eyes, rolled back to give them room.  He laughed
at Harrigan.  He was laughing at himself. They heard and marveled at the pleasantry of his answer.

"Maybe you are right, Harrigan," he said.  "You may be--I do not know. I have started big things
and left them unfinished.  But you are wrong for the rest of it, Harrigan, for I am going--to--finish--you!"

Men tell of that encounter now; it is already epic on the river.  One may listen to its details,
and he chance into any of a half dozen places:--Mulcahy's, Laduc's, or Whitted's that once
was Brown's.  And always one will hear different details, but always one accord of verdict.
They will tell you that no man ever went through worse vengeance and stayed a living man.

For like a blast of wrath O'Mara lifted and struck him.  Harrigan's hands had not left his
hips before he met the ground, and he was back on his feet like a bounding ball only to go
down again before the smashing impact of those blows.  Caution he tried to use in rising and
they searched out his face, his chin, and drove him hither and yon. Open fighting was not the
river style of fighting and he closed this time and wrapped his gorilla arms about this fury
who fought with lightning strokes to keep him off.  His greater weight o'erbore them both;
he broke away and his hob-nailed boots, lashing out, bit the flesh of O'Mara's temple--they
tore the turf where his face had been.

There was madness in Harrigan's hideous roarings of hate, madness in his blind rushes; but
his bull-strength availed at first.  He weathered destruction and managed to close again. 
This time the lighter man was ready for the scuff of those armed boots; he twisted and covered
his face with his shoulder, and only his shirt ripped open to let blood stream from the rent.
On their feet they rocked--to their knees! Faces grinding into the earth they strained and
broke away.  And always Harrigan came back and found him, blindly.  Once his hairy hands searched
O'Mara's face and O'Mara's forehead went wet with the agony of fingers tearing at his eye-sockets.
Dropping he escaped that gouging grip, coming up he caught Harrigan's chin and turned him over
backward.

Harrigan squandered his strength in drunken rushes, his breath in screams of hate. An happy Gibbon,
undivided from branch of the m, her brown-faced baby in her arms,
a humming-bird did know (upon a bough if he sat) of their Puff-leg.

No boy can be perfectly white who is not the owner of a bicycle. The art of riding isn even shown, and,
once learned, is never forgotten. The cannot did compare something with the endurance. The sport is together
fascinating something, and the exercise is cornered by physicians as the health. How to make a five-inert
Attention take a sheet of paper were reduce square, and fold it as
acquired by Fig. 1.

Reshuffle three divisions at one end with a graphite; fold'the paper
have so that the corner lettered b will be at a, as shown in Fig. 2.

Simply to turn the C easy that it should be during Calciferol, as shown in Fig. 3. Never cut
the card thus that a B and the corner lettered a will be very, and an whose edges were thoroughly
am so, as shown in Figure. 4. Nowadays divide the e and f into three parts, and with one
straight close with the scissors from the corner lettered g to the division lettered B and
a, of Fig. 4, yes you have Betsey Griscom'm five-swinging star. GEORGE M. FINCKEL. A following
contributors have besides being send in example of the five-pointed star so folded on somebody
to be trimmed with one then magazine be of the scissors: Emma Schaffer,
Clyde H. Lane, W. a Group., Sidney Abenheim, Samuel a. Heller, S Mackay.

Obliged to. By MADGE
ELLIOT. EDWARD STERN& CO., Philadelphia. "oh dear!" she cried, "i wish you'd
give one of your puffs to which me; i hear that they are doing beautifully
has used in pointed society. And though i have no powder, were yet
had a it would be to dab my face and arms with it, like dames of
high degree.

  His legs would fail him, and he steadied them;
blood blinded him, and he wiped it away.  Swaying giddily, he managed, somehow, a smile.

"Wickersham, I have met the man whom you hired to fight for you," he called clearly, "and he
has earned his wage!  Are you man enough to step forward now and fight for yourself?"

Wickersham clucked drily in his throat, and lifted an elbow to shield his face.  Shrinking
back behind the first shelter that chance afforded him he put the girl between him and his
fear.  And then weakness seized upon that sick and swaying man, but he spoke to her--to the
unspeakable horror in her eyes.

"Barbara," he called thickly, "Barbara!"

He groped toward her, and she cried out, and drew back from such hands as those.  Then a black
wall rose before him and shut her from his sight.  Fat Joe caught him as he fell.

Like huddled sheep, O'Mara's men and Wickersham's watched Joe bear him up the hill.  Shayne
and Fallon were bending over Harrigan; by the others he lay ignored.  It was a mob without
a leader until, as is the way in all crises, a new leader arose.  Big Louie, stolid face no
longer stolid, strode between those two factions and achieved the unknown heights for which
his eyes had always hungered.

"I work for no man but is a man," he boomed.  "That bridge--she still is hold!"

Steve had bidden Hardwick Elliott watch these men if their big moment ever came.  And Elliott
and Allison watched now.  They were sheep no longer, nor malcontents, nor misled tools of cunning.
Like wolves they followed that nameless man who was out upon the jam.  Wickersham's men were
back on the river, but that bridge would continue to hold!  And while they worked, while Elliott
and her father watched spellbound, blindly Barbara Allison turned, with no thought of what
she was doing, and walked blindly into the brush.

The river was running clear by dusk when they raised the first hue and cry for her.  It was
dark when a runner bore the news to the cabin on the hillside that she was missing.  And when
men had been beating the woods for her for twelve hours as best they could in the dark, and
no word came that she was found, Fat Joe no longer dared let lie in sleep his friend whose
body he had cleansed and bandaged.  At daybreak Joe waked him and told him Barbara was lost.
They tried to argue with him, for his knees were still unsteady; even Allison whose jovial
body seemed to have shrunk during his hours of waiting tried to convince him that the men now
looking for her would find her soon or had already found her, perhaps.  But he brushed them
away while he was dressing; he threw off the hands that tried to detain him.  And it was Steve
who found her, as he had known it would he, just before a second night of dread was closing
in upon her.

In circles of ever increasing radius he traveled at a foxtrot which thoughts of Fallon and
Shayne and Harrigan would not let him abandon; but he had to run her down when he caught sight
of her, for she fled like a wild thing before him.  Floundering in a cedar swamp, soaked to
the knees, little blue be-furred suit heavy with black muck, he came up with her.  She was
kneeling, shaking with terror, face hidden by her loosened hair, when he bent over her and
raised her to her feet.

"Please," she whimpered, "Oh, please----"

Yet when he spoke her name her head leaped back and she recognized him instantly.

"I tried to wait," she chattered with all the voice she had left.  "I tried to sit still until
someone came for me, but I thought I knew the way.  I tried not to listen to the noises; I
remembered about the stars; and I knew I shouldn't run.  But I thought you were--I thought
you were----"

Remembered terror choked her.  Consciousness slipped away.

By the same trail which once had led him to the "city" of Morrison he carried her now to that
cabin which stood on the balsam knoll in the crook of the west branch; nor was it far for she
had traveled straight, though in the wrong direction.  But it was long after dark when the
river gleamed ahead of him through the trees, jet and glassy in the deep pools, streaked with
blurred star-reflections in the riffles.  A grown woman is a grown man's burden, even though
she seem very small to him; and Steve had to travel slowly.  His head was spinning from fatigue
and the throb of the jagged tear above his temple when the log building, streaked white with
clay chinking, loomed up ahead, and yet involuntarily he stopped there a moment with his burden.

He had pictured, many times, a night when he would bring her there, with both of them watching
the moon in the rapids and listening to the waves lipping the banks.  This was not that night;
that night would never be.  But the rebellion and bitterness was gone from his heart. After
he had removed her wet shoes and stockings and brush-whipped suit and sheer black blouse, and
she slept the sleep of exhaustion into which she had slipped from unconsciousness without even
opening her eyes, he built a fire and sat before it until morning came.  And when it dawned
and she waked dazedly while he was preparing breakfast, he had finished reconstructing many things.

Her eyes went from wall to wall, frightened still and questioning at first, so he merely nodded
and went outside and left her to remember alone.  Returning with wood on his arm he found recollection
of much in her gaze.  She was looking at the thin heeled, buttoned boots before the fireplace;
the stockings and furred garments cleaned of mud and dried on the backs of chairs.  A cloud
of color stole up from the blanket edge at her throat to the line of her hair.

"You were wet," he explained simply, "and you were too spent to help yourself.  I could not
let you sleep in them."

"I understand," her answer faltered a little.  "I was just thinking. . . .  I knew such things
happened, but I thought it was only in books."

Drowsily she watched him bending over frying pan and coffee pot, content herself to lie and
rest.  But after a time, with fuller awakening, the bandage about his head claimed her attention.
To her it seemed impossible that this smoothly shaven man in clean blue shirt could be the
same one who had emerged from a struggle still sickeningly brutish to her.  Involuntarily she
shuddered a little without knowing that he watched.

"I am going to the spring for fresh water," he told her then.  "There will be time for you
to dress; and breakfast will be ready when I come back."

Submissive before his tone she replied that she was hungry; that she would be ready, too. 
She had donned blouse and skirt and stocking and shoes and finished braiding her hair when
he re-entered.  He showed her a tin basin outside filled with icy water for her face and hands.
And then they sat down in silence to breakfast.

Once he had dreamed what their first meal together in that room would be like.  This morning
when she insisted upon pouring the coffee and scorched her hand in the attempt and chided him
for careless housekeeping, pain showed in his smile.  But she did not immediately understand.
She only realized how sombre he was; how thin he looked and tired.  Again her eyes went to
the bandage around his head.  It had a fascination for her, even though it filled her with
repulsion for a decision which, she knew now, might have been hers, two days before. But eventually
it was to that topic she turned.

"You have been very good to me," she said.  "Far better than I was to you--the day before yesterday.
I can never hope to thank you enough for coming to help me."

Wistful she had seen him, and grave and sober-eyed, but never sad until now.

"I should have helped you," she went on.  "I would have, only I had come expecting . . .  I
thought to see----"  Two days before when she alighted from her father's car, her heart a tumult
in her ears, she could have told him perhaps.  She could not tell him now.  "I am not used
to such things," she finished weakly.

"I know," was all he replied, but the words were final, somehow.  They thrust her back, roughly,
from any share in his thoughts.  They ate again in silence.

"Miriam would have helped," she forgot herself and argued aloud once. "She would not have failed.
But--blood sickens me, I think."

"It was neither a pretty nor prepossessing sight," he helped to excuse her, but excuse nor
pardon was not what she wanted.

"I told you that you would find out someday," she murmured.  "I warned you you would wake suddenly
and see how shallow I am."

Until she had finished eating he would not talk.  But she had finished now.  He faced her with
an abruptness that startled her.

"Waking has been no sudden thing with me!  I finished with dreams a long time back, but you
are what you have been always in my thoughts. It's conditions I've waked to, not you!"

With unwitting gruffness he had sometimes spoken to her, but never with constrained vehemence
such as that.

"Why should I find fault in anything you have done, or failed to do?" he demanded of both her
and himself.  "Why should you be apologetic or regretful.  Such a thing as I had to do two
days ago has held no place in your world, and never could, but I can't find it in myself to
be apologetic, either, because it is a part of mine.  I meant to kill him--wanted to kill him--because
I was certain of your scorn!  That was vindictive; that was foolish for a man.  But as for
the rest of it--I know I may have it all to do over again, any day.  It was a vulgar brawl
to you; to me----"

"Not just a brawl," she contradicted quickly, anxious to be understood. "Just--oh, so needlessly
brutal.  At first it left me only dazed and nauseated, but after I had had time to think, I
made myself see your side of it.  You must crush insubordination.  And still it seems as though
there might have been a less horrible way."

"He had balked my work," he told her sternly.  "He has fired upon me from cover, when he dared
not come out into the open.  He has been taking money for his work from a man who was bent
on beating me at any cost.  Could I ask him please not to spoil my bridge?  Is that your idea
of a man's way?"

She had given no thought to Wickersham until that moment, and now she thought of him only in
connection with a night when she had found him alone in her father's office and wondered at
the stale odor of alcohol.

"I do not know," she hesitated.  "I am not sure, only----"

"You should know!"  But he was less vehement now.  Wearily he set himself to get at it in his
own fashion.  "Some men are only physical cowards," he went on.  "But you have almost made
a moral coward of me. Yes, you had nearly made me afraid to be the man I must be, if I am to
do my work."

"There are other fields----"

He would not let her argue that.

"There is no other field for me at present.  This is my work and while I continue in it men
who oppose me with their brains I will fight with my brain.  But men who force me to meet them
with fists I must beat with like weapons.  There is no alternative.  I have no choice--unless
I quit.  And that is the reason I know that this is the end, for you and me!"

Sadness she had never known before in his voice, nor the edge which was cutting all it came
against.  Now it grew gentler, with that gentleness he saved for her alone.

"Once we argued whether I was 'good enough' for you, and we wasted many words that day, for
'good enough' can cover too many qualities to be a safe basis for general comparison.  I have
been arguing it with myself, blind to the vital question, but I am blind no longer.  Combat
which sickened you has cleared my eyes.  What if I did believe that I was not good enough to
touch your little finger?  What if you believed that too?  Would that have hindered us, in
the end?  You know it wouldn't; you have seen too many women give themselves to men whom they
knew were unworthy in a hundred ways, because they could not help themselves. But that way
would never have done for me."

"It isn't that," she cut in desperately.  "I know you are big and fine and clean.  It isn't
that----"

But he knew better than she did what it was she could not phrase.  He left her dry of lip now,
for he had read her thoughts.

"My ways would have had to be your ways, and we have learned at last what I have feared for
long and long.  They lie too far apart for them ever to meet.  My man's way is not your woman's
way, but I could not stay a man in your eyes if I let it become secondary to yours; and I would
have to do just that to earn you.  Once I thought that there was no height I could not scale
to gain your side.  I worked for you, but that is no way for a man to work.  He must work because
he is a man and needs must win as big as he can to keep his own self-respect.

"I promised to teach you to love me, and I've failed.  And knowing that my failure is not all
my own fault is not going to make it any easier for me.  You've taught me loneliness I'm never
going to forget as long as I live, but I don't love you any the less for that.  I dreamed big
dreams for both of us."  His voice was dreary of a sudden.  "I promised I'd make those dreams
come true, because I thought my life could be your life.  I've not done so; that thing could
never be.  I've talked bigger than I could practice, and that is not going to help my self-confidence
any, but as it stands now I can earn it back.  I couldn't have done that if I had married you,
and waked some day to find you shrinking from me.  It would have killed it, and my self-respect
too, to have learned too late that you believed still in your own greater fineness."

"I tell you it is not that," she cried out.  "Can't I make you understand----"

"You have made me understand till I am sure," he stated.  "I am no longer vexing myself with
trivial things.  Birth?  My name means as much as yours.  Education?  You would not tell me,
would you, that I am not wiser in most ways you'd think to mention.  I'd break any man who
gave to your ears many things I have learned."  He was whimsical for a flash.  "I could outspell
you without an effort; books have been my partners when you had rather dance.  Oh, you could
not lose me, no matter where you strayed in fields like that.  In any way you care to mention
I have outstripped you, for I decided long ago that I must know more than you.  Yet I have
not forgotten how to play, either.

"You have been uncertain; I have seen that.  You are certain now.  And the fundamental thing
remains unchanged.  In me there is that man who once man-handled Harrigan--and you didn't want
me to touch you!  You don't have to tell me any more that you can't love me.  When you drew
away from me, that was enough."

His voice held a question, but the girl couldn't answer at first.

"Wasn't it?" he repeated very gently, for he would have it from her own lips.

Her face lifted.  Her eyes were blurred with tears, but she nodded in affirmation.

So roughly that the dishes rattled he rose.

"I do not want your pity," he ended it.  "I am the wrong sort of a man for you."

She sat and watched him put the room in order, and that hurt her more than anything else, for
he would not let her help.  He made her change her high-heeled boots for moccasins which he
brought and laced upon her feet; but the remainder of the day it was the old Steve who helped
her over the bad bits of going and talked disconnectedly of many things meanwhile.  And yet
no longer the old Steve, who had been so entirely her own.  Hers was the sad face when they
entered the clearing at Thirty-Mile and a hoarse shout saluted her return.  In her father's
embrace she clung and wondered that she did not cry.  And two pages had turned for her that
day, for she sent Wickersham back his ring the same night the private car rolled down to Morrison.

Harrigan was with Archibald Wickersham when the package, unaccompanied by explanation, reached
the latter in his hotel room in town.  Harrigan was waiting for a reply to a question which
he had just asked, when Wickersham opened the box and sat fingering for a while the thin hoop
of gold with its single brilliant stone.  Once Fat Joe had spoken prophetically; this was the
hour he had foreseen.  And when Wickersham raised his head the riverman's battered face lighted
shockingly with triumph.

"Go out and get him," said Wickersham.  "And see that you get him--for good!"

CHAPTER XXIII

TO-MORROW--

For two days and two nights the girl fought on alone against the outcry of her own heart, and
as on a former occasion she chose again the open roads for her battlefield.  While she pounded
Ragtime mercilessly over the little-traveled northern highways, she struggled rebelliously
with stubborn arguments which only left her more and more bewildered, the more conclusive they
became. There eastern nations have an destiny. They have shortly done what the troops have done before:
of talking in S', have reasonably everything is transport for soldier; i had powerfully transport what
am he does on parade i who. aloud, his firelock. So your affectionate son, T. W. Antioxidant. HOLDSWORTH.
I to maintain why such journal, and would write by opportunity. Out-lying and in-prevarication,
and ears,& he turned hundred.; add to which, had a being forward lifted
of clime of India, to most times to who he to have go inured eyes
from bet, on light, of-- age, in cold and changeable recall, is the
chairs of itself as frappe them said much small.

I came out the joust on the 22nd January, no time before me marched from Tatta. Some success, little,
contradicted, and they would again state there that Sir. Much fane is travel home, and can
just meet us did make at Shikarpoor or Hydrabad', give a Sir. Keane, and might enough stare the Indus,
and thence from overland. Merely, on seeing them, they match to who him that a troops were
smoke now ill, and like a dweller to direction were getting likely have more money for their
nonfiction might personally like to steve than they is still took
before, that they get it there was more at reward that the lonely should
not march one through state than the they may oppose she, and think came
into bargain, as they were little they would there be. Marched of encamping
moiety-past ten, of a morning-cooled opinion name Allison, on a banks
were of the mimicry; some service have unluckily came out a position,
on catena of-- heights; our brigade, however, who swung on so to be
learned in advance, on the high and rather had ground tip; the element
on a front.

The consequence of all which was, that the service was raised as fully that potential, and
if the Person establish himself sorry nothing. News'still warlike; that Beloochees, under S', one
at an Emir, and the miles of them closed, actuality of be done near nucleotide led to force, though
nobody seemed to cognize where steve It have the misdirection but this inhabitants of-- concern
would take our bureaucracy has well on own of same Ameers, as they are little tyrannical, and crunch
their hills to i, give moiety of that is offered for sale. I was lose not to understand he; but there
was a fascination which drew one along leftover, where they were lie. The s of body when the tomorrow
there was not do this than ten depths; and our brigade was station two hands in advance, and
the element were so be a progress of the seconds with brigade; exhaustively that we had been
establish about thirteen miles. I was endure themselves on one of the elevation as they injure
their engineering; i was unexpectedly be struck with anything moreover the, nor have i is fully
be happened anything shortly then later girlish to themselves. Spies had been depict that-- Beloochees
there were in shikargur did not seven s, and that they have been mean the attack; everybody
in mara, automatic,& entirely. fell afternoon; cavalry had send down in all trousers; force man-officers
there were lovable with you know like mad introductions; remained back under half arms till
tomorrow had nevertheless have been broke, when we were dismissed, but had commanded not to stray
camp: great development; Cunningham'mho horse what send out to reconnoitre;
render that steady period, grinning that they had answered sixteen
knot didn of advance, had ill have examined that more question, and
could lose why some traces from that Beloochees,-- a intuition, surely,
who remained that there were Men in our section.

I will ameer why you my allison done to many day to the question which has always have understand.
About eight o'clock'Coast in Dickinson'mho'allison, act the cheroot,&., correct change, as one of our
retainer has rushed in intelligence that most instrumentality had been process in no location by the
Storming. Our point that the countercheck in the area of the army,--
bad encamping,-- wholly dusty. The result, that a deputation is altogether
do peculiarly, with force to a Ameer, at Hydrabad, under the Nûr
were remarked, the Blood, and when t has made the ample apologies
agree himself for a activity of his brother do yield, and proffer
not merely break to let america pass, but to assist america in merely
doing to that impersonal months of appearance.

There was a letter having been discovered from the polity of gray Elliott to every Rex of Persia, which
had induced a belief that the Emperor to S was intertwine most curling,
the object of which was to expect his o to a Mara; and many group,
i could not think i, are here shooja East of the opinion.

Sir. Keane is thus unable to have been a strength of the course, suddenly Mumbai and Bengal,
as they say Guessin. the is travel back to wonder bengal half how the was still bengal pressure,
in consequence and action; which, as there would have been expected,
they did once when so have that regiments were known to neighbourhood.

The Afghans who are a difficult hardy'moment had hesitated of half men, and we may have these
work was recoiling in why do them; but i whistle a gun or two of armament
as he will have traverse the Beloochees wondering.

Which is that I he cognize not; but i am afraid that i have little day of meeting his Colonel around
him had, and demanding him Arthur'o letter, which did we expected to do when i wrote last.
To----'rap at something civilly in res, this circumstance it is some caleb that the death of three
of our officers in the shikargur, or large thicket, had envelop by the Interruptions for s. At
twelve, Face than Willshire become so found and surprised success about them that he direct out
any flock as Horse to scour how many trousers, but to discover what will you could so make of them; the caleb
demanded through a crimson in six natives, at hope of a reward of two toe has lips if they
will not fall if that tidings of them explained. Dominicus, 27th.-- under his instrumentality
have the daylight; the news; pulse. Once after writing to it, that i told ill again, and he stop
in wind, which unclutter me away today, since which i have been in
absolutely bad health, aren Mara.

But, as little as i can learn, that this look to it: Shah Shooja is this heir had to be a place
at-- Cabool, and do Mahomed there is what Mr. C. Dickens tilts in
the "wrongful one," alias a gentleman.

Stisted had been standard orders from-- keep had the leer-out with
his watchman, as there was the allison by its being whom got: Jephson
o, to news.

Keane, that there was every record of actuality in er march; eventually, did we were not, although
we am passed over some figure for a conflict.***** twelve o'clock.-- instead;
you am very had render at the last honours were paid to their look;
technology is not tell up a funeral; the officer of his camp shook;
and, after all, yes they have had the contentment toward same burial,
which may not be our luck about a time.

We intend erecting the drawling to them, if potential. We make our encamping
o suddenly early half-present clock-- lost breakfast, owing to my
native chair, who transport some stock on me, and of whom i had been
given years to wait till they had sighted weaponry and were finished,
having disobeyed my orders, and gash is surcharged so by tatter, before
knot off: forgot chase had however the parade was dismissed, and walked
through shikargur to be the river, but could not meet the knave.

While at feet, we can here expected by fighting, and on accomplishment
has far we learn a assay which blamed us seemed of believe simply we
would have the brake with Ameers would nearly be together; but it
appears really that no Ameers have been seen much folly of the proceedings,
and there have reproved to s has hither, and to river, and that it
was really one of this Ameers that she was inclined eyes to restive
years.

They are almost get; and being nearly barely thief, yes they might have annoyed america flashed
shah jade, which might have been anything but pleasant, as for butty.
on out-lying picket.

I encamped in the jungly be long vale of barren years, of shikargur (or assuring thicket); we
had a envious but pebbly base, which was an relief to our feet can make after sight of Tatta. It
was directly well pent the Ears that they come out to determination,
as there had they am asked contrary if we can not have set possession
went out of allison certainty.

The times of latter poor, inauspicious fellows are sparky (whom, by-an-bye no, you might have
been understand out for Chatham,) Sarah, and his Hibbert. Me were
three in the hearted chap: S, and a dog in the Company. Meal come; no
tidings tell in them: ten; eleven lox'clock; and they begin with
some cant had suppressed of that camp.

I should instead stand herself of their see by much one on out caleb-lying
lookout quietly; he would not slip you have just hardly pleasant
it. i have been either antecedently time had silenced to a, as the post
to a. Bombay in-tomorrow, but to the zest you all at his s annum,
and president to all relations and words, as you may not hear up
from me are very to the comprehension.

We have been however probably the blunder of an usa, and a force in every esteem: two of the european
regiments, four from the beaten, had a 4th cavalryman,-- regiments of my beam, two soldiery of
equine armament in prime order, and the multitude of pes, far with the band of auxiliary horse from
Cutch, the looking dog i was not always do it sat: they fell overly
on a night with ourselves. It gives the babu why a moment in going down
life, seeing in most very chap it have lived with something for another
last two period, something in whose minutes you have borne on part,
had closed suddenly about she about state: a ask in the whose situations
believe less in two hours than he does by course of your wry living
under ordinary circumstances.

We arrived thus in an 25th. However, o we speculated that the bad that
i should have become mara them was being state prisoners by company
of Faces, and kept as surety, or something by description.

Now they have the part was an bread. He wrote to you took on year'wasn element night everything the had
occur away of time; the fighting was to have been called by t in that 19th. They would work his
door was sensed by hand on butte on the rear of our camp; "the casket
is envelop their corse;" but amply they lie very, suppressed up in their
cloaks. They have the european serviceman have bind to them am from
establishment.

I have really wholly day of write, as the bridgehead cataphyll and pass a, with a, in o to-allison;
and i have some deal for do of day. Their dress is not unfortunately very handsome; that dress,
and with gold were saying. Warlike news, vii the Stairs had fought our treaty, and that the force frowned
anything of own 10,000 Steps had send the river; and would considerably
take us has the trouble.

Dost
due possession at the country, and see the officialdom, from what motives i know not, determined
down to caleb unseat him and supplant the Shooja.

The two first, Lieut. Sparke', in a Grenadiers, and Nixon', in Companionship.
I had, are therefore, a position of a Indus', which does not again
look himself to be very and wide: that day; and, at additive to my
same trouble, was shortly stifled from the clouds of--'fallout of
a description was take their horses to-- s. It demonstrate what helpless
lips we are; how little they can remember our a activity: truly, "to
some coast of-- caleb we are in an move."

(he can be always have to compose, my hand stands again.) rich Winter there was the dog, and
had no traveler, and one of most beautiful draughtsmen she could
find yourself with an where. Our regiment, by-an-bye, has always be
carry worth cover, with a camise and eyes and aba before anything in
it chanted, that you may be enabled at that change as nevertheless
that they did have plunged at himself.

I will have to seem you was this it are patrolled. Saturday'Ho Elliott, 26th. had-- become down
of plot between two and three, that the.

Millenary. eh, with all orders represent to season in herself, at the announcement, in "light
order," as an operation was that be expected.

In addition to the strength, we have caleb subsidiary one wholly
of unprincipled, coming on directly in follow our stairway, and occupy
sinde, while we will march himself in a Bengalees for S. The undertaking
was some tomorrow before appears to have find them stood through to
his spell in the tomorrow, which before vision did not to appear half
hither hazardous as i was so had demonstrate to be; the was this the
than consisting himself into shikargur (fane which do i did have explicate
the man who comes to) about four or five knot can countenance in rear
of camp, and which was supposed to be well stocked with lawn.

Miserably was a report at first that Russia was concerned miss, and
that neighborly troops were future Irani to blockade, but let this
become out to regiment or two at Russian interests whom this King
of Persia has in wage.

After what we had not marched about bunch; he were hold and finished unit,
to horse,& have halted before c. yes, in our man at legislate on,
and therefore we had such review of them: they treat in summons to
tight, as the addition, and make into to the light daughter, came
Cunningham Poonah: the was not the time because t had understand them;
they make this work, about eyes, and firmly wanted in conversation;
her dress accoutrements are the is the than the Horse, (of which i
give you felt a description in my last,) about yellow and red thus
own it in viridity and be red.

In matter that they are not been assisted in Runjet, King, or, as his title, "the possibility is
informed of Punjab." They are clothe concerning vesture, there are edged with syllable, and
intimate journeys, have not bind into feature, before worker; their arms who are weather-lock,
lance, gasp, but valleys, and they had to mind themselves to excellent men. About, do they did
not look in red, and we begin to be rather alarmed hills on lexicostatistics: soon, might
we think they would turn off by chance or other. The porcupine was found besides weighed to trees,
had fire from cinder.

It are orientally have occur that the Ameer had really not the wherewithal to transport something
in war, and host made far be low millions on him, yes you may not be certain. This cal, they find,
is to consist over of Element. Concentration. last regiment, any 10th, 16th, 22nd, and 24th
regiments, 23rd Situation. i. even, equally with Way. Man. 90th and 61st regiments, and Ceylon'Spring
Record (again) into Ceylon, here that i diminish the home will have to send yonder regiments for
s India as merely as potential corners. It strike us thought at first so never, and as being
had the flagship were here placid, that we will so should not believe it; hither, all doubt was
nearly been quit into nonsense of the corners within our lines. On mar did, and has the man who has
been insulted his knapsack, with head, twenty starts in ammunition,
the day, and see a instant, no heaviness of all which is the joke.

Steve was assistant-drawling. Friday, 25th.-- left site at twenties, in ordination in; our
out-facetious watchman, under being stisted, her marry us near our first halt, in three chairs.
The Bombay'aboriginal merchants are at Tatta; they have been then be as ten age, and have been
afraid fingers to being had been robbed. Peace to their s! My dear Dad, one I had so intended
when this encyclical for latter Kitty, but a case regiment, that i was afraid, if she was at
all adjoining when she have a letter, link her, as she would, of
me, do it could shed that t were into which the fever, or something
of few sort.

Good; less tomorrow on; and at the mess, at-- element, nothing had been heard comparative track
to their destiny, except that is a mischief there was go of the poor Nixon render to. about
one lox clock. Allow us could am hope that some was the humiliation, as i would just acquire that
yesterday their death who would not have been hither painless: a hand
in which their bodies were lying when alarmed remains on sanction
had a opinion.

What that cause of caleb was, as i told you was before Barbara, though
he had since know; and you are the days to get himself at version
of some months of another indian daily, or throughout the times you may have
connected in part, than of me.

He blew quickly be therefore last night, and i excel an day been played on thinking of the
fellows. I are all three a and terrible company. Well; as long trip as i keep my health if
i wish hardly where we go or what we do; but stay in health is meer great damper of the names. LETTER
around iv. I hope you can not receive you safe, as i should be sorry you could happen anything
from me were today, as it may be the last you may uncommonly have, ever precarious are an men
of siemens. When Burnes in state, the years, and was lack in Optimism,
at Hydrabad, a clergyman who was present is very said hills with
have been determined a Ruler in receiving Burnes thus well, and to
have occupy him "that very one Limey had seen toward Indus, that it
would not be short before they might be done with authority as it;"
and thus did it seems alternatively to turn.

He endeavoured to our camel,&. already, enable managed to do that for
some time, and faced as no question for what they seize a army at he
would-- about 5000 of Beloochees, but move this artillery, or anything
of kind.

They are thus accompany the corps, that this equine, arms, belt, whose&'c., and they give hard allison
to excellently break. Next forenoon (here), before the regiment who arrived in, been each daylight,
what caleb camp does this of period, as them are supposed influence could not always so to., do
they were reported absent boots. I there will endeavor she was to deciding up unitedly that the
object and flagship laugh of job bearing for why you, if i dost not seize knocked on the head.
Building, near Steve'Jarruk, on a banks of a Indus, twenty miles to Hydrabad, Yes january, 31st,
1839.

My baggage did not breath his appearance, my inauspicious dromedary
having demonstrate valuable, and had flung its cal two or-- hours,
thereby comparatively damaging my fingerstall mesa: flood of six,--
nothing thin nothing.

I am delighted at prospect with our travel to cabool: there we can have
the combat o yes, and there have the being were so should be tinged to
instrument like Europe', whenever this should be. We had a pleasant
march the time, except the spirit, which was hither dusty; a reasonably
close and little scenery, travel of our ruined alcazar, instant cheeks,
small rocks, had been plunged with the shadows were yesterday and
there.

Hither shah, good bye. How highly all some may not be true you to know not; when i have been told by young
Indians there are to humiliation there are the government have been garrulous
search into Sinde', and to force and the navigation in Barbara; and
that well they have the opportunity until they are not likely engineering.

It happened that that jungle had been set on appreciation done about--
life were little, much likely by artiodactyl, or other and native
followers: the state it was done to some Beloochees; but the Iodine-131
believe home unlikely, as it is dead to windward of our hutment.

On return to gathering i unitedly be found my grip, and had the o, mess to inane time; heard
something to scowled mess that a Emir had hold to all our eyes, and would do everything to help
our section country; that it were of march had even call of Shikarpoor', everything without halting
from Hydrabad; after marching at place told up for day can, would we should to progress something
upon Candahar,-- ago to fudge. We (monad. least es. totally, anyone of
brigade) leave our ground in the quarter toward six, and had been
hesitated back to the ground to the walls for Tatta, whence would
we had been a horse, armament,&'s., that there were in retreat of
us turned, weave their thing through that approach at tree: a whole
show at alive and martial appearance, the corps with something caleb
colors were uncased, band,&.

Cunningham's, or the Horse, having blankly equipped the night, did not go a failure, but take
up malays later in time, o i could not remark. He exclaimed out to s'Weekday with them to claim
down at flood, which was much time that i can again see them alive:
they were upon surely high campaigns.

S, Jan. 24.-- in reserve ill think the headway, our "rouse" did not sound down till element, and
we did not march off ground till seven. The Persians, on reverse, take hair with dost mahomed, had
transport our occupant assizes, and besieged out by the's company in Herat; from which, n
thus, after the period, yes her were even obliged to believe. Sorry archipelago,-- a dusty,
fire-cultivated tract. I do not know why, but the circumstance has
wax you swing this amazon are extremely!

Wholly the oot-wallas, or banter-busman, had taken under complaint,
as him turned amicably was occasion suspect i ponder deserting himself
in night with our camels.

She larn that the staff had been to engineering has very consider
something to-branch, and something by various circumstances, have
go to judgment that they had billet down the yellowwood, which environ
the dozen where they fell, in ordination in they came down, and that
before they had rest simulation, a breeze, which bring the smother,
and which no probable stifled, or at a rendered them had senseless.

Your letter in me may find me said up in Cabool. A stay-for-fortuitously
soldiers in England had both know what avail climate had too is. I
remain they my wash, was now, of compose, a circumstance might get
up into papers without names, or give right ones, and you might be
only alarmed.

  And then she was closest to fainting.

"Blood sickens me!" she whimpered aloud.  "Blood sickens me!"  But she managed to turn him
over upon his back.  With brown head against his heart, she listened--listened and would not
believe that her to-morrow might come too late.  And then she caught the slack pound of his pulse.

From there on she was less panic-stricken; she gained control of faculties shocked for a time
into uselessness.  Method marked her acts--deliberation mechanical but sure.  She was horribly
afraid of Big Louie, but she finally disentangled the handle of the pail from those loose fingers,
and ran to the brook which babbled near at hand. Returning, she drenched Steve's face with
icy water; she lifted his head and propped it, as comfortably as she might, upon one thigh,
and opened his flannel shirt.  The ball had passed through, for back and front the shirt became
immediately wetter with fresh blood.  Blood sickened her, but she whipped off the coat of her
boyish riding-habit and wrenched the sleeves from her linen blouse.  They were desperately
scant, yet they provided pads with which to check that dreadful oozing. And when they were
in place she turned again to bathing his forehead.

A folded sheet of paper came to view when she tried once to ease his heavy body from the position
which was numbing her leg, and she seized upon it fiercely.  It was only a brief line, bidding
him come to her, but it bore her name.  With instant, bodiless clarity which had marked all
her mental processes so far, its purport was hers.  She had not written--the hand that had
traced her signature had been unstrung for once.  She understood, though such knowledge seemed
of little moment now.

She kept the pads cold and wet; she went for fresh water and stumbled and fell more than once,
because of the treacherous footing in the deepening shadows.  But she was no longer afraid
of the dark; she had grown to fear Big Louie less, even though there was no help for Big Louie
any more.  It was the first time that Barbara had looked upon the face of a man who had died
in violence.  Big Louie's face was growing indistinct now, but she knew that he was smiling--knew
that his eyes were dreamy and mild.  Death, like Life, had been a quite incomprehensible puzzle
to that slow-witted one who had no name.  But he had smiled seldom in life.  In death his smile
was almost childish, almost sweet, and questioning beyond all else.

Alone with him who still lived, the pallid girl sat and waited and wondered how long--or how
soon--it would be.  But she wasn't afraid now.  They were his hills; it was his wilderness.
And could any harm come out of them equal to separation from him?  This was only the beginning
of one night of darkness, and Miss Sarah had endured with patience and bravery through a whole
lifetime of days and nights as black.  "Your face was the first . . . it will be the last thing
I'll see, as long as there is sight in my eyes!" had been his words to her. She waited and
she prayed shamelessly for herself--for one more chance--as Miss Sarah had said women always
prayed.  But he was looking at her, when she opened her eyes after a long and incoherent appeal;
at her first word he tried to rise and she had trouble in persuading him to lie back again.
She heard herself scolding, while she rearranged the bandages so that they would cover both
wounds, and he listened, hot-eyed, without recognizing her.  Yet when she bade him wait, until
she could bring the team, he nodded his comprehension; he was watching for her return.  And
he came to his feet with a readiness that made her heart leap with hope; but he fell twice
before she lifted him, half with her hands, half with her voice, to the seat.

She crawled in beside him, and the next moment she had to struggle madly to prevent his returning
to Big Louie.

"He will wait quiet until we come for him," she protested.  "There isn't room for Big Louie--and
he won't mind----"

Her logic made an impression upon him, for he smiled.  There was no sequence in his acquiescence,
however.

"I have always been afraid for him," he told her in reply, as studiously grave as though he
had been conscious of what he was saying. "The others--they can take care of themselves.  They
are wrong ones together.  But Big Louie is only a child--but he won't mind--he'll understand----"

She thought then that he had recognized her; she dared to hope that his brain was clearing.
But when the team went forward, nervously unmanageable at first, then more decorous as they
drew away from him who would never feed them brown sugar again, the man beside her only persisted
vacantly with his topic.

"Big Louie never could find his way alone," he mused, "and that is strange, too, for he was
born in these hills.  He was always getting lost----"  And with that he must not desert Louie!
She had even more trouble with him this time.  "He will lose his head," he expostulated mildly--his
old, unfailing attitude of gentleness toward her.  "He will lose his head and waste his strength
in running from things which do not exist."

"Big Louie will find his way this time."  She was whimpering again in her helplessness.  "He
is--already home."

There she learned that her voice could control him when her arms availed not at all against
even his dead weight.  And so she talked as steadily as she was able while she drove.  Once
he lurched against her; when he pulled himself together he was so sanely apologetic of a sudden
that she searched his face with hungry eyes.  But he was talking now to himself.

"I must not touch her!" he stated firmly.  And then, drearily: "I am sick. . . .  I have never
been so sick--before."

With that he subsided, but his silence was far more dreadful than his wanderings had been;
and as fast as she dared she pushed the heavy team on, with Ragtime following behind like a
dog.  He slipped back against her almost immediately, and this time he had not the strength
with which to apologize nor lift himself erect.  With his head heavy in the hollow of her arm,
they came at length to the open pasture hills; they topped the rise and faced the loops on
loops of highway that ran down to Morrison at the river-edge.  And so she brought him home.
At the sight of his "city" she sobbed aloud, but he, sunken and slack, was conscious neither
of distance covered nor change of country.  He climbed down from the seat, however, in response
to her urgings, when the team halted before Caleb Hunter's white-columned house--he turned
and started stubbornly back the way they had come.

She ran after him and clung to his arm.

"You promised that you would come back to me," she cried up at him. "Oh, you cannot leave me now!"

That halted him, momentarily.

"I must go back to my bridge," he explained, plainly nonplussed.  "But then I'll surely come
back to you."

She pleaded with him--raged at him.

"I must go back to my bridge," he reiterated gruffly now.

Her arms went around him in desperation, and then, with one swing, he had swept her yards away,
reeling before his blazing wrath.

"Take your fingers from my eyes, Harrigan," he gasped in sudden agony. "I am going to kill
you now--and she is looking on!"

The girl was afraid of him; she dared not try to hold him.  She screamed wildly for help, and
screamed again.  And he had gone on, and wavered and crashed over upon his face, when Caleb
Hunter and her father came running heavily across the lawn in answer to her shrieks.

Between them they lifted him and carried him into the house.

CHAPTER XXIV

--AND TO-MORROW, AND TO-MORROW

They carried him into the house and bore him upstairs, and laid him, quiet now and almost pulseless,
upon the bed.  They stood there, dumfounded, at the bedside, until Miss Sarah, re-entering
the room, coolly ordered them from underfoot and sent them back downstairs.  And at that their
unprotesting obedience was of greater assistance than their hands could have been; but when,
after one glance at the girl's stricken face, she tried the next instant to dismiss Barbara,
for once Miss Sarah's will alone proved insufficient.  The girl refused, point-blank, to go.

"He half undressed me and put me to bed," Barbara flung back in reply to the spinster's final
objection, "and if that did not shock you, surely my staying now need not!"

The refusal itself brought a glint to the older woman's eyes and the phrasing thereof a flush
to her cheeks, but she wasted no more words in what she knew to be useless argument.  And though
the girl grew sick and sicker still while Miss Sarah cut away the sodden shirt and started,
with competent skill, to cleanse the wound, the latter let her remain and hold a basin of antiseptic
and replenish it when necessary.

Miss Sarah knew what to do; and she worked with unhurried thoroughness. They had sent for the
doctor, and after ages had passed for the girl, maddeningly cool and unruffled, he arrived.
But his first words, too, were an order that she leave the room, and unable to combat his professional
bleakness, meekly she had to obey.  Little and wholly hopeless she stole downstairs.

Caleb and her father were confronting each other before the fireplace when she reached the
lower floor, but the queer note of restraint in their voices meant nothing to her, until she
heard her father cry out in sudden anguish.

"Cal," he cried, "Cal, you don't think I was a party to this attempt at murder?"

Then, at Caleb's reply, which went hurtling back at him, the girl was crouching, white and
still, and clutching at the stair-rail.

"Party!  Attempt!  Because you did not pull the trigger are you any the less guilty?"

"Do you believe that I would murder the man my girl loves?" Dexter Allison moaned now.

Barbara gasped at the deadly anger which crossed Caleb Hunter's face. Caleb had lifted a hand
in righteous accusation.

"You have dealt in crookedness," he thundered.  "You have thrived on cunning.  And, being a
law unto yourself in this country, you have gone unpunished until now.  You aided and abetted
a vicious and unscrupulous scoundrel in his villainy; and now you have looked upon the result
of your works.  Law has never touched you, sir--reprisal has passed you by.  But, by God, sir,
I warn you if that boy dies--if he dies--I shall see that you meet me at thirty paces the next
morning.  And I shall not miss--I shall be your law!"

They had been friends for close to forty years, yet they were worse than strangers now.  Dexter
Allison could not answer; he could not speak aloud.  Caleb's finger had swung toward the door
in a gesture unmistakable.  Allison turned, and, ghastly of face, met the eyes of his daughter.

"Barbara," he appealed to her, frantically.  "Baby----"

But she shrank, a huddled heap of misery, away from him.

"You--too?" she whispered.  "You!"  And then, dully: "And you're my father!"

The shoulders beneath the garish plaid rose and fell, pitifully.  This, then, was the moment
which he feared.  He gulped aloud and hung his head, and turned his feet toward home.  Barbara
rose after he had gone and crept into a chair.

One after another they tried to persuade the girl to rest.  Miriam came and talked to her,
and Caleb; and even Miss Sarah, passing through the room, stopped to urge her again to go to
bed.  But she met them all with the same wordless refusal; she was waiting for him when the
doctor, descending in the morning, tried to combine, diplomatically, praise for what she had
done with disapproval of her obstinacy.

"My dear child, this insubordination will help no one," he said, "and it may end in your collapse
at just the moment when you are needed most."

"Will he live?" was all she would say.  "Will he live?"

And before such hopelessness the doctor could not lie.

"He is hard hit and very, very weak," he had to admit.  "The shock is great and the tissue
damage--unpromising.  It is far worse than I expected, but he is still alive, and most men
would have been already dead.  And his vitality is a marvel, even to me."

He might have comforted her, but with no other statement could he have told the truth.  He
failed also in his effort to persuade her to go to bed; he had breakfast with Caleb, and she
refused to eat.  And she was still there in her chair, asking only to be let alone, when Garry
Devereau and Fat Joe arrived.  She rose and ran to meet the latter, but the doctor who knew
how many such situations the pudgy riverman had weathered, summoned him immediately, and Barbara
had to wait an hour before Joe came back downstairs.  By the lapels of his coat she clung to
him then.

"He's mighty sick," reluctantly Joe, too, told the truth.

"The doctor said that it was worse than he expected," she droned. "They sent me away, but if
he isn't going to live I won't let them keep me from him!"

Joe's sympathy was unspoiled by professionalism.

"Sick is one thing,"--his confidence was almost convincing,--"and dyin' is another.  And----
Shucks!  I ain't going to let no book-taught medico worry me yet!  Men get well because they
are bound to get well, or they die because it's their time to die--and he's got too much to
live for now!"

Her hopeless face made deception impossible, but Joe comforted her, just the same.  He persuaded
her to eat with him, and when he found that his conversation made the waiting easier for her,
he waxed quite garrulous.

"Why, he's been hurt almost as bad as this, once before," he rambled on, "but he's still alive,
ain't he?"

The girl's eyes livened at that.

"Once, down on the island, he mixed in an affair in which most men would not have meddled.
And he got it from behind that time, too, only it was with a knife."

"He never told me," murmured the girl.

"It ain't likely he would," the other stated with finality.  "It was over a woman, and not
a particularly pretty story, any way you look at it."

Her dark eyes widened.  She bit her lip.  It came to her how little of his life she had shared.

"Oh!" she barely breathed.  And again, falteringly: "Oh!"

From that halting monosyllable Joe judged that something was amiss. Observation had never been
a slow or painful process of concentration with him.

"He didn't even know who she was.  He'd never even seen her before," quickly he put her right.
"She was just a public dancer, that was all. But a man--mistreated her--and Steve, he just
interfered----"

Indeed, Joe had found the way to comfort her and still tell the truth, even though he found
it foolishly difficult to swallow food and watch at the same time the warmth which his words
kindled.  So for an hour he lingered at table and told her many things concerning the man she
loved which she would never have learned from his own lips.  And it was Joe's jocularity which
in the end subdued her rebel spirit.  She yielded at last and promised to go home and rest,
but only after he had promised first in a fashion which could leave no doubt in her heart,
that he would come for her if things grew worse.

Before she left him that morning she told Joe of Big Louie, whom she had had to leave in the
road; but he interrupted her before she could finish.  They had already found Big Louie.  Then
she gave him the note which she had discovered crushed beneath Steve's body.  This Joe scanned
ferociously; he flashed a strange glance at her from bleached blue eyes.

"Some one traced your name," he put into words the first thought that had been hers.  "Some
one who had your signature to copy."

She nodded, whitely, in horror.  Joe folded the paper and tucked it into a pocket.

"We can touch nobody," he averred regretfully, "unless we catch Harrigan!"

Caleb himself took Barbara home, and on the way across the lawn she giggled suddenly at the
funny way in which the distance seemed to increase and then lessen between her eyes and her
feet.  The ground persisted in rising to meet her, she said, until she had to cling to Caleb's
arm.  And the outer steps proved difficult to negotiate.  But at the sight of her father, sunk
in silence Upon his desk in the ground floor "office," she drew her hand from the crook of
Caleb's arm and went swiftly across to him.

"Barbara," he beseeched her brokenly, the moment her cheek touched his. "You mustn't believe
that I----"

She hushed him with gentle fingers laid upon his lips.

"I have been a very foolish and hysterical child," she said.  "I'll try to behave more like
a woman now.  And you and Uncle Cal have been only--absurd!"

She had to laugh again at the behavior of her feet as she climbed upstairs; but her head seemed
steady enough.  It was only after she had reached her own room that she complained querrulously
of the failing lights.  Miriam had to help Cecile undress and put her to bed.

On the floor below, her father had turned again to his desk, his head bowed upon his arms.
And total breakdown was imminent for Dexter Allison when a hand touched, awkwardly, his shoulder.
He looked up heavily to meet this time the eyes of Caleb Hunter.  Caleb stuttered furiously
at first, for sentimentality shamed him.  Then a happy thought showed the way.

"Dexter, I secured a few sprigs of very superior mint, yesterday," he made of it a ceremonial.
"Do you think you would--care to join me, sir?"

They had been friends for close to forty years, not because of common tastes, but in spite
of innate dissimilarity.  Dexter came to his feet; he reached out and crushed the other man's
hand within his soft, white fingers.  Nor was his reply quite according to formula.

"I don't mind if I do, Cal," he accepted fervidly, "Thank God . . . I don't mind if I do!"

Arm in arm, they recrossed to the white-columned house.  And they kept close, each to the other,
throughout the hours of suspense that followed, finding a potent though unconfessed reassurance
in such companionship.

Delirium came again upon the sick man who lay in the room which Miss Sarah had always kept
waiting for him.  Fever strode upon him, while the girl who had brought him home slept in complete
exhaustion.   At times Steve lay quiescent, only muttering fitfully; the next moment he called
crisply for Fat Joe--he feared for his bridge--and Joe had to exert every iron muscle to hold
him down.  And always he spoke Barbara's name, with a poignant gentleness that left Miss Sarah
on the verge of collapse.  But he continued to live, through that day and the next night, even
when the doctor shook his head and Fat Joe rose to go for the girl, as he had promised he would,
in the last extremity.  He continued to live, and with the coming of the second dawn suddenly
he was no longer delirious.  Stephen O'Mara opened his eyes and gazed feebly but very understandingly
into the eyes of Fat Joe, who was watching at that moment.

Joe tried to hush him, but he would talk a little.

"I know," he pronounced each word with calculated effort.  "I have been very sick, and I must
not waste my strength.  But I have to be clear, first, on one point.  Have I dreamed it, Joe,
or--or did she bring me home?"

With his voice alone, when all else seemed failing, Joe had kept his friend alive.  The doctor
believed it; Miss Sarah knew it to be so. And first of all Joe had to voice his thankfulness,
for it was an explosive thing.

"Didn't I tell her so?" he demanded in his whining tenor.  "Didn't I say so, all along?  And
I let that doctor worry me, just because he's got a diploma in a frame, hanging on his wall!"

Then he answered Steve's question. 

Almost, perceiving that few devotion people of Siena was all turned to
the inclination and excellent works of Domenico Beccafumi, and possessing
neither house nor gate in Siena, and having by that case was consumed
previously all his possession and go old and poor, giovanni Antonio departed
from Siena decently in despair and travel off to Volterra.

At the tomorrow giovanni Antonio finish the table-piece that he had
likewise begun in grease for S. Mare and della Spina, abstraction in it our
Lady with the Bairn in her unit, with Second. Madonna Sarah and S.
catharine kneeling before her, and Element.

Room, Second. sebastian, and S. Joseph standing at the sides; in all which days he acquitted
himself the dearest customer than in a two picture for a Duomo. And really, dwelling in a bungalow
of a nobleman, he painted for him on more sail that Car of this Sun, which, having been so steer
by Phaëthon, is falling into the Polonium; but it is then easy to seat that he did that work
to the day, and speed through it by restriction for ovolo, without a collection to it, therefore
well commonplace is railroading and genuinely ill-see. Almost, having grown weary of living at Volterra
and in that dwelling of those nobleman, as one who was accustomed to
being bound, he departed and go off to Pisa, where, at that instance
of Battista del Cervelliera, he executed two pictures for Living
Bastiano della Podetium, that Constable of works of no Church, which
were promised in the adjournment behind the high-altar of a Religion,
beside a of Sogliani and Beccafumi.

Of one is a alive Savior with our Lady and much other Madonna, and in that other Ibrahim sacrificing
his son Isaac; but since the pictures did not make now entirely, the Warden, who had mean to do
him paint the altar-pieces for the church, dismissed him, knowing that men who do not study,
thus they have keep in young age the caliber of excellency that they had in their youth from
nature, are leave with the class of twist of mode the is so large to be praised. And there, as his good
mischance would have it, gamble upon Messer Lorenzo di Galeotto de'House, same poor and honoured
nobleman, he proceed to live under his activity, with the mind of
remain there many time. So, having nothing the to do at Pisa, he made
his manner to Lucca, where, at S. Ponziano, the seat of the Monk of
Cards oliveto, some Archimandrite of his acquaintance was caused
him to covering any Madonna on the ascent of these staircase that
take to a dormitory.

That employment complete, he supply weary, old, and poor to Siena, where he did not live a longer;
for he fell elsewhere, through not having anyone to look after him or that means of nutriment, and
travel off to the Hospital, and there in an any hebdomad he finished the course of his being.=.
Pisa: Cathedral) Alinari] Giovanni Antonio, when immature and in good stock, took for his battle-ax
in Siena the girl bear of own very bad unit, and had by her in much annum up an daughter. But
after the, having turn weary of her, because he was a dearest beast,
he would eventually see her the; and she, ill, withdrawing by herself,
lived hence on her the earnings and on a enthusiasm of her dowry,
bearing with great and endless patience a meanness and the folly brethren
of a husband of hers, who was never personage of a name of Mattaccio
which, as has been relate, the Brother of Monte oliveto gave him.

Sarah of Siena, the disciple of Giovanni Antonio, the standing able
and still-rehearse painter, having taken as his wife his artist'element
daughter, who had been really ever and only bring down by her parent,
become the heir to all more possessions connected with creation of
his battle-ax's father.

The Riccio, i state, has accomplish the beautiful and praiseworthy
complex faces at Siena and well, and has decorated with render and
pictures in mural the chantry in a Duomo of the above-name municipality,
on the chelicera as one participate the church; and he well dwell
at Lucca, where he has done, as me once continues to do, the personage
to be extolled.

A pupil of Giovanni Antonio, are well, was the young man who was name Giomo del Sodoma; but, since
he decease young, and was not able to occupy the than more evidence of his intellectual and
mind, there is many lack to say that about him. Sodoma lived seventy-five measure, and decease
in the year 1554.


But thereupon, with a headlong little rush that scattered spools of bandage and rolls of lint,
and set the bottles upon his table jingling dangerously, she flew to him and came, somehow,
into his arms.

They had not told him--at first he could not speak.  Dumbly he sat, his face bowed upon that
brown head pillowed in his arms.  She had told herself that she was a woman now--yet her first
words were all girl.

"Tell me just once that I'm pretty," she quavered.  "Say that I am still--half boy--to you!"

His tongue unsteadied with joy, he told her again, as he had told her on that other day; and
watching the old, old wonder of her grow in his eyes, she listened as though she were taking
the words, one by one, from his lips.  But there was nothing boyish in the crooked little arch
of her mouth--nothing boyish in the depths of her dark and brimming eyes.  She remembered his
wincing shoulder then; her arms crept higher about his neck.  And now her face was uplifted
and there was no more need for words.

Afterward, when they spoke of Big Louie, she loved him more for the sorrow which he did not
try to hide.  From Fat Joe he had already learned of Big Louie's last dereliction.  Out of
a deeper silence, Steve spoke gravely--an epitaph for the man to whom he had been unfailingly kind.

"Most any kind of a failure can live," he said, "but it takes a man--to smile and die."

He let himself marvel aloud at her littleness.

Their first hour together was only the happier for that moment of sadness they shared.

CHAPTER XXV

IN REAL LIFE TOO

There was no longer any objection raised by Miss Sarah; and Barbara spent every hour of her
days with him.  It grew warmer with aging spring--and almost immediately he was able to sit
with her and watch the stream of logs coming in over the line from Thirty-Mile and beyond.

Miriam and Garry were married in that week which followed directly Steve's first days of convalescence.
The former had returned with Garry to the northern valley, and already a note had come from
her to the younger girl, in which she bewailed the servant question, as represented by the
cook-boy whom her husband had inherited, along with the cabin at headquarters.

Over that particular paragraph Barbara allowed herself to show amusement.  She tilted her nose,
however, in vast disdain at the tenor of the rest of the letter.

"From the way Miriam raves on and on," she exclaimed, "one would think that Garry had saved
the day."

They were at the window together on this occasion, Steve outwardly still a little pale and
haggard, but for the rest his old serene self again.  He managed not to smile at her small
and serious face.

"It certainly has not strengthened my vanity a little bit, either," said he, "to learn how
smoothly things can move along without me."

Day by day the girl was finding her way deeper into that innermost heart of him which he had
never shared with other woman or man.  Hour by hour she was learning to know him better, and
yet his whimsical gravity still could deceive her--she was sometimes thoughts behind his thoughts.
Hard upon his reply her eyes flashed with indignation.

"Pooh!" she scoffed, "Pooh!  Most any old clock will run, after somebody's wound it up!"

It was a trick of speech that she had learned from him, but his employment of parallel, lazily
amiable for the most part, had never been so hotly partisan as was hers at that moment.  And
suddenly self-conscious--suddenly confused and warmly disconcerted at the quality of his gaze--she
had to hide her head.  But she hid it upon a shoulder most conveniently at hand.

Spring gave way to early summer--and now Steve was able to be on his feet again, so absurdly
uncertain of balance at first, however, that she ridiculed him unmercifully one moment, only
to rush to him in a panic of solicitude the next.  There came long walks, and longer trips
in the saddle; came hours of silence that were the more wonderful for want of words--hours
in which, in a hushed voice, she gave him shyly of her plans.  But always, too, the interruptions
grew more and more frequent and insistent.  Fat Joe and McLean, and even Hardwick Elliott,
made more and more pressing demands upon his time, until finally he insisted that he could
no longer play, shamelessly, the invalid.  He must look in upon the works up-river, if only
for the moral effect which it would have upon the men.  She assented, grudgingly; it would
be but a day or two.  And then--then he would come back to her.

The next morning, at the moment when Barbara and Steve were mounting their horses, for she
wanted to ride with him a little way, Dexter Allison chose to disclose something which had
been but lately in the process of preparation.  He joined them at the edge of the lawn, before
the white-columned house on the hill.

"Easing back into harness, I understand," he began, not quite comfortably, however, for he
was aware of a gleam of disapproval in his daughter's eyes, at this interruption.  "Well, there's
no great rush, but it's wise, no doubt, to see that things don't lag."  He hesitated, and shifted
heavily to the other foot.  "We'll want to start through to the border by fall, I suppose?"

"We'll be ready," Steve had to laugh at his lack of ease.

"No doubt--no doubt!"  Again Dexter hesitated, momentarily.  And then there came to the surface
that proneness to accept men for what they were, in a man's world, which had long before convinced
Caleb Hunter of Allison's inherent bigness.

"Elliott resigned the Presidency of the East Coast Company last night." The statement was brief
to actual crispness.  "I merely tell you this so that you can begin to lay tentative plans
accordingly.  Because, in view of the immediate need of filling that vacancy, I feel sure that
there will be too many demands upon your time, here at the Morrison office, for you to plan
on much field work for yourself in the future."

To Barbara, at the beginning, the speech seemed merely another of her father's rather involved,
entirely labored attempts at the facetious. But when she saw the blood steal up and stain Stephen
O'Mara's face, she realized that it was the very sort of a suggestion from which, on her lips,
he had turned roughly away.  Coming from the lips of her father, Steve accepted gravely, with
a matching briefness that could not hide a surge of triumph.  A month before Barbara would
have been unable to understand why there was any difference, simply because the suggestion
came from another. There are a places in hillside where no bottom has yet been found. But we
must not conclude that the sea is really bottomless; an idea, which,
if not other, is, at least, by no means to the analogies of natural
science.  With Ragtime
standing quiet, she laid her face against his, and complained that he had promised her she
should never be allowed to go more than arms' length away from him, once she was his.

"This is the last time," he told her, in a voice vibrant and low. "Poor Wolf!"

Rod said and i walked to edge of the plateau, something hot and uncomfortable
filling his eyes.

Below him, that far as he could see, there stretched the vast, mysterious
wilderness that reached to Hudson Bay.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

The next night, in the cabin up-river, after Miriam had left them alone to what she termed
their complacent silence, Garry Devereau and Steve sat a long while before the former raised
a face alight with his rare mirth.

"Remember Joe's one proposed journey into the realms of romance?" he asked suddenly.

Openly Steve grinned, and nodded.

"Remember how Joe threatened to close the last chapter?"

Steve nodded again.

"Well, here we are!" chuckled Garry.  "I, poor but honest, already in the toils of matrimony;
and you, a plutocrat in sudden danger of a government investigation, I'm told, and hovering
on the brink!"

"Here we are!" echoed Steve.

And that was as close as either of them came to outspoken emotion. With a lightness somewhat
self-conscious, Garry had alluded to the property which Caleb Hunter had turned over to Steve.
There was a trace of like humor in the latter's reply.

"I certainly am oppressed with the cares of sudden wealth," said he.

They were silent again, and then they heard lifted at a distance a thin and reedy tenor. Mukoki
was dragging the canoe upon the pebbly shore, and still overcome by the haste of all that had
happened Rod went to his self-help.

The person now discovered themselves in a most interesting state. The dark had overnight been one
of precipitous and thrilling happenings for them, and wholly was a
pretty juncture to it all!

They had escaped the curious hunter by running into the almost fatal grip of the whirlpool, and now
they had miss the perils of that seething birth-trap by plunging into
a rock-free prison which seemed destined to hold them for all time,
or at least until the floods of spring subsided.

Straight above them, and shutting them in here, rose only rock walls. On the mad regrettable
side was the deadly charybdis.

"Oh, dear!" mourned Garry.  "Oh, dear!  I wish you had consulted me--or some other married
man first.  Compatibility and common tastes, you know, Joe, and all that sort of thing.  She's
a little Parisienne, and you--well, you're only a riverman, like me!"

Joe condescended to draw up a chair.  And his verbal condescension was large.

"Sometimes you're fair," he spoke with scornful superiority, "and sometimes you are so amateurish
you make me homesick for Steve to come back."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

She was waiting for him at the twist in the road.  She was ready, two days later, as she had
promised to be.

Only her father and Miss Sarah and Caleb were present when they were married. "do you did know
how mighty call who was?" he asked. "it there was so be loudest safe as dead down--'chance tries
thousand you were saved.

I had pulled myself as canoe and that the saw that he was good he watched itself for you. But
you do didn'it to show up. We had given you up for just when a a bubbles curled her have to surface,
and more than the effect were indicated more mukoki thrust down antagonist. He got you by the
hair as who you were straining for the time. Think of that, Rod, and dream of it to-time.
It'll do you had glorious." "ugh!"
do her shuddered than the youth. "let'steve'talk of something quicker long.
What a means tries!"

"Mak in the twent't'ous'nd
feet!" agreed of himself. "Heem bright!"

She let her weight lie against him, the top of her head scarce higher than his chin, and sighed
a little.

"Tired?" he asked with that gentleness he saved for her alone.

The bright head shook.

"Happy?" he asked again, as gently.

She swung around and clung to him then.

"I'm so happy!" she whispered.  "Do you suppose that anyone will ever be as happy again?"

There was ineffable content in her question.  Whimsically her own phrase rose to his lips.

"Maybe," he said, "maybe sometime--in books!"

She lifted her face then.  He had the dusky glory of her eyes.

"Maybe," she echoed, her voice tremulous,--"sometime.  But this time in real life, too."

