263. But when the spiritual mind is open the state of the natural mind is wholly different.
Then the natural mind is arranged in compliance with the spiritual mind, and is subordinated
to it. For the spiritual mind acts upon the natural mind from above or within, and removes
the things therein that react, and adapts to itself those that act in harmony with itself,
whereby the excessive reaction is gradually taken away. It is to be noted, that in things greatest
and least of the universe, both living and dead, there is action and reaction, from which comes
an equilibrium of all things; this is destroyed when action overcomes reaction, or the reverse.
It is the same with the natural and with the spiritual mind. When the natural mind acts from
the enjoyments of its love and the pleasures of its thought, which are in themselves evils
and falsities, the reaction of the natural mind removes those things which are of the spiritual
mind and blocks the doors lest they enter, and it makes action to come from such things as
agree with its reaction. The result is an action and reaction of the natural mind opposite
to the action and reaction of the spiritual mind, whereby there is a closing of the spiritual
mind like the twisting back of a spiral. But when the spiritual mind is opened, the action
and reaction of the natural mind are inverted; for the spiritual mind acts from above or within,
and at the same time it acts from below or from without, through those things in the natural
mind which are arranged in compliance with it; and it twists back the spiral in which the action
and reaction of the natural mind lie. For the natural mind is by birth in opposition to the
things belonging to the spiritual mind; an opposition derived, as is well known, from parents
by heredity. Such is the change of state which is called reformation and regeneration. The
state of the natural mind before reformation may be compared to a spiral twisting or bending
itself downward; but after reformation it may be compared to a spiral twisting or bending itself
upwards; therefore man before reformation looks downwards to hell, but after reformation looks
upwards to heaven.

264. THE ORIGIN OF EVIL IS FROM THE ABUSE OF THE CAPACITIES PROPER TO MAN, THAT ARE CALLED
RATIONALITY AND FREEDOM.

By rationality is meant the capacity to understand what is true and thereby what is false,
also to understand what is good and thereby what is evil; and by freedom is meant the capacity
to think, will and do these things freely. From what precedes it is evident, and it will become
more evident from what follows, that every man from creation, consequently from birth, has
these two capacities, and that they are from the Lord; that they are not taken away from man;
that from them is the appearance that man thinks, speaks, wills, and acts as from himself;
that the Lord dwells in these capacities in every man, that man by virtue of that conjunction
lives to eternity; that man by means of these capacities can be reformed and regenerated, but
not without them; finally, that by them man is distinguished from beasts.

265. That the origin of evil is from the abuse of these capacities will be explained in the
following order:

(1) A bad man equally with a good man enjoys these two capacities.

(2) A bad man abuses these capacities to confirm evils and falsities, but a good man uses them
to confirm goods and truths.

(3) Evils and falsities confirmed in man are permanent, and come to be of his love, consequently
of his life.

(4) Such things as have come to be of the love and life are engendered in offspring.

(5) All evils, both engendered and acquired, have their seat in the natural mind.

266. It was shown in the preceding chapter that the natural mind, as regards the understanding,
can be elevated even to the light in which angels of the third heaven are, and can see truths,
acknowledge them, and then give expression to them. From this it is plain that since the natural
mind can be elevated, a bad man equally with a good man enjoys the capacity called rationality;
and because the natural mind can be elevated to such an extent, it follows that a bad man can
also think and speak about heavenly truths. Arnold sat with Caroline at an interval matinée. Such
weariness had been gone for him long her. In house, she began to speak to him seriously of her life
of 350 week; the fixity was going on perhaps as own last had left,
in the means of two engagements.

"you
will envy me their seat," said Arnold. "i am going out West. I am
going to build my the Opera."

"you
are joking; you would not think of they mean near," said York. "i
planned it precisely again," answered Caroline; "it was to be an
act endowed after certain Arnold',-- the act, ago. Experience in the spiritual
world has often corroborated this. I have listened to evil spirits who inwardly were devils,
and who in the world had rejected the truths of heaven and the church. When the affection for
knowing, in which every man is from childhood, was excited in them by the glory that, like
the brightness of fire, surrounds each love, they perceived the arcana of angelic wisdom just
as clearly as good spirits do who inwardly were angels. Those diabolical spirits even declared
that they were able to will and act according to those arcana, but did not wish to. When told
that they might will them, if only they would flee from evils as sins, they said that they
could even do that, but did not wish to. From this it was evident that the wicked equally with
the good have the capacity called freedom. Let any one look within himself, and he will observe
that it is so. Man has the power to will, because the Lord, from whom that capacity comes,
continually gives the power; for, as was said above, the Lord dwells in every man in both of
these capacities, and therefore in the capacity, that is, in the power, of being able to will.
As to the capacity to understand, called rationality, this man does not have until his natural
mind reaches maturity; until then it is like seed in unripe fruit, which cannot be opened in
the soil and grow up into a shrub. Neither does this capacity exist in those mentioned above
(n. 259).

267. From the intellectual capacity called rationality, and from the voluntary capacity called
freedom, man derives the ability to confirm whatever he wishes; for the natural man is able
to raise his understanding into higher light to any extent he desires; but one who is in evils
and in falsities therefrom, raises it no higher than into the upper regions of his natural
mind, and rarely as far as the border of the spiritual mind; for the reason that he is in the
delights of the love of his natural mind, and when he raises the understanding above that mind,
the delight of his love perishes; and if it is raised still higher, and sees truths which are
opposed to the delights of his life or to the principles of his self-intelligence, he either
falsifies those truths or passes them by and contemptuously leaves them behind, or retains
them in the memory as means to serve his life's love, or the pride of his self-intelligence.
That the natural man is able to confirm whatever he wishes is plainly evident from the multitude
of heresies in the Christian world, each of which is confirmed by its adherents. Who does not
know that evils and falsities of every kind can be confirmed? It is possible to confirm, and
by the wicked it is confirmed within themselves, that there is no God, and that nature is everything
and created herself; that religion is only a means for keeping simple minds in bondage; that
human prudence does everything, and Divine providence nothing except sustaining the universe
in the order in which it was created; also that murders, adulteries, thefts, frauds, and revenge
are allowable, as held by Machiavelli and his followers. These and many like things the natural
man is able to confirm, and even to fill volumes with the confirmations; and when such falsities
are confirmed they appear in their delusive light, but truths in such obscurity as to be seen
only as phantoms of the night. In a word, take what is most false and present it as a proposition,
and ask an ingenious person to prove it, and he will do so to the complete extinction of the
light of truth; but set aside his confirmations, return and view the proposition itself from
your own rationality, and you will see its falsity in all its deformity. From all this it can
be seen that man is able to abuse these two capacities, which he has from the Lord, to confirm
evils and falsities of every kind. This no beast can do, because no beast enjoys these capacities.
Consequently, a beast is born into all the order of its life, and into all the knowledge of
its natural love, but man is not.

268. Confirming evil and falsity is nothing else than putting away good and truth, and if persisted
in, it is their rejection; for evil removes and rejects good, and falsity truth. For this reason
confirming evil and falsity is a closing up of heaven, - for every good and truth flows in
from the Lord through heaven, - and when heaven is closed, man is in hell, and in a society
therein which a like evil prevails and a like falsity; from which hell he cannot afterwards
be delivered. It has been granted me to speak with some who ages ago confirmed themselves in
the falsities of their religion, and I saw that they remained in the same falsities, in the
same way as they were in them in the world. The reason is, that all things in which a man confirms
himself come to be of his love and life. They come to be of his love because they come to be
of his will and understanding; and will and understanding constitute the life of every one;
and when they come to be of man's life, they come to be not only of his whole mind but also
of his whole body. From this it is evident that a man who has confirmed himself in evils and
falsities is such from head to foot, and when he is wholly such, by no turning or twisting
back can he be reduced to an opposite state, and thus withdrawn from hell. From all this, and
from what precedes in this chapter, it can be seen what the origin of evil is.

269. (4) Such things as have come to be of the love, and consequently of the life, are engendered
in offspring. It is known that man is born into evil, and that he derives it by inheritance
from parents; though by some it is believed that he inherits it not from his parents, but through
parents from Adam; this, however, is an error. He derives it from the father, from whom he
has a soul that is clothed with a body in the mother. For the seed, which is from the father,
is the first receptacle of life, but such a receptacle as it was with the father; for the seed
is in the form of his love, and each one's love is, in things greatest and least, similar to
itself; and there is in the seed a conatus to the human form, and by successive steps it goes
forth into that form. From this it follows that evils called hereditary are from fathers, thus
from grandfathers and great-grandfathers, successively transmitted to offspring. This may be
learned also from observation, for as regards affections, there is a resemblance of races to
their first progenitor, and a stronger resemblance in families, and a still stronger resemblance
in households; and this resemblance is such that generations are distinguishable not only by
the disposition, but even by the face. But of this ingeneration of the love of evil by parents
in offspring more will be said in what follows, where the correspondence of the mind, that
is, of the will and understanding, with the body and its members and organs will be fully treated
of. Here these few things only are brought forward, that it may be known that evils are derived
from parents successively, and that they increase through the accumulations of one parent after
another, until man by birth is nothing but evil; also that the malignity of evil increases
according to the degree in which the spiritual mind is closed up, for in this manner the natural
mind also is closed above; finally, that there is no recovery from this in posterity except
through their fleeing from evils as sins by the help of the Lord. In this and in no other way
is the spiritual mind opened, and by means of such opening the natural mind is brought back
into correspondent form.

270. (5) All evils and their falsities, both engendered and acquired, have their seat in the
natural mind. Evils and their falsities have their seat in the natural mind, because that mind
is, in form or image, a world; while the spiritual mind in its form or image is a heaven, and
in heaven evil cannot be entertained. The spiritual mind, therefore, is not opened from birth,
but is only in the capability of being opened. Moreover, the natural mind derives its form
in part from substances of the natural world; but the spiritual mind from substances of the
spiritual world only; and this mind is preserved in its integrity by the Lord, in order that
man may be capable of becoming a man; for man is born an animal, but he becomes a man. The
natural mind, with all its belongings, is coiled into gyres from right to left, but the spiritual
mind into gyres from left to right; the two thus curving in directions contrary to each other
- a proof that evil has its seat in the natural mind, and that of itself it acts against the
spiritual mind. Moreover, the gyration from right to left is turned downward, thus towards
hell, but the gyration from left to right tends upward, thus toward heaven. This was made evident
to me by the fact that an evil spirit can gyrate his body only from right to left, not from
left to right; while a good spirit can gyrate his body from right to left only with difficulty,
but with ease from left to right. Gyration follows the flow of the interiors, which belong
to the mind.

271. EVILS AND FALSITIES ARE IN COMPLETE OPPOSITION TO GOODS AND TRUTHS, BECAUSE EVILS AND
FALSITIES ARE DIABOLICAL AND INFERNAL, WHILE GOODS AND TRUTHS ARE DIVINE AND HEAVENLY.

That evil and good are opposites, also the falsity of evil and the truth of good, every one
acknowledges when he hears it. Still those who are in evil do not feel, and therefore do not
perceive, otherwise than that evil is good; for evil gives enjoyment to their senses, especially
sight and hearing, and from that gives enjoyment also to their thoughts, and thus their perceptions.
While, therefore, the evil acknowledge that evil and good are opposites, still, when they are
in evil, they declare from their enjoyment of it that evil is good, and good evil. For example:-One
who abuses his freedom to think and to do what is evil calls that freedom, while its opposite,
namely, to think the good which in itself is good, he calls bondage; when, in fact, the latter
is to be truly free, and the former to be in bondage. He who loves adulteries calls it freedom
to commit adultery, but not to be allowed to commit adultery he calls bondage; for in lasciviousness
he has a sense of enjoyment, but of the contrary in chastity. He who is in the love of ruling
from love of self feels in that love an enjoyment of life surpassing other enjoyments of every
kind; consequently, everything belonging to that love he calls good, and everything contrary
to it he declares to be evil; when yet the reverse is true. It is the same with every other
evil. While every one, therefore, acknowledges that evil and good are opposites, those who
are in evils cherish a reverse conception of such opposition, and only those who are in good
have a right conception of it. No one so long as he is in evil can see good, but he who is
in good can see evil. Evil is below as in a cave, good is above as on a mountain.

272. Now as many do not know what the nature of evil is, and that it is entirely opposite to
good, and as this knowledge is important, the subject shall be considered in the following order:

(1) The natural mind that is in evils and in falsities therefrom is a form and image of hell.

(2) The natural mind that is a form and image of hell descends through three degrees.

(3) The three degrees of the natural mind that is a form and image of hell, are opposite to
the three degrees of the spiritual mind which is a form and image of heaven.

(4) The natural mind that is a hell is in every respect opposed to the spiritual mind that
is a heaven.

273. The nature of the natural mind in man in its substantial form cannot here be described,
that is, its nature in its own form woven out of the substances of both worlds, in the brains
where that mind in its first principles, has its seat. The universal idea of that form will
be given in what follows, where the correspondence of the mind and body is to be treated of.
Here somewhat only shall be said of its form as regards the states and their changes, whereby
perceptions, thoughts, intentions, volitions, and their belongings are manifested; for, as
regards these states and changes, the natural mind that is in evils and their falsities is
a form and image of hell. Such a form supposes a substantial form as a subject; for without
a substantial form as a subject, changes of state are impossible, just as sight is impossible
without an eye, or hearing without an ear. In regard, then, to the form or image wherein the
natural mind images hell, that form or image is such that the reigning love with its lusts,
which is the universal state of that mind, is like what the devil is in hell; and the thoughts
of the false arising out of that reigning love are, as it were, the devil's crew. By "the devil"
and by "his crew" nothing else is meant in the Word. Moreover, the case is similar, since in
hell there is a love of ruling from love of self, a reigning love, called there the "devil;"
and the affections of the false, with the thoughts arising out of that love, are called "his
crew." It is the same in every society of hell, with differences resembling the differences
of species in a genus. And the natural mind that is in evils and in falsities therefrom is
in a similar form; consequently, a natural man who is of this character comes, after death,
into a society of hell similar to himself, and then, in each and every particular, he acts
in unison with it; for he thus enters into his own form, that is, into the states of his own
mind. There is also another love, called "satan," subordinate to the former love that is called
the devil; it is the love of possessing the goods of others by every evil device. Cunning villainies
and subtleties are its crew. Those who are in this hell are generally called satans; those
in the former, devils; and such of them as do not act in a clandestine way there do not disown
their name. From this it is that the hells, as a whole, are called the Devil and Satan. The
two hells are generically divided in accordance with these two loves, because all the heavens
are divided into two kingdoms, the celestial and the spiritual, in accordance with two loves;
and the devil - hell corresponds, by opposites, to the celestial kingdom, and the satan - hell
corresponds, by opposites, to the spiritual kingdom. You understand him at his desk or array with
his publication and stereoscopes round him; you detect the candle by which he reads,-- the whole lie
about; you guess his state, whether married or single; you divine his tastes, apart from that which
he has in fragrant with yourself. By-and-by, as he warms towards you, he direct you the image
of what prevarication next to his bosom,-- a delicious boy, for humiliation, such as laughs
upon nucleotide in the lovely word-painting on which we are today appear,
or an young homestead, common with all the sweetbrier of his alive
summers, catch in one of Nature'element loving point, with the sunshine
gilding engineering like the light of his own representation.

And so these shadows have made him with his outer and his inner living a fact for you; and
but for his vocalization, which you have never learn, you know him better than hundreds who name
him by name, as they meet him year after annum, and reckon him among
their strange familiarity.***** to all these ally of ours, those whom
we have call, and not more those whom we have silently retrieve, we
send our grateful acknowledgments.

They
have ne'er let the interest we have possibly occupy in the miraculous
prowess of photography to slacken.

Though not one of them may learn anything from this unsubdivided etymology we have given, they will
nevertheless let that it has a sure value for less teach readers, in consequence of its numerous
and poor skip of much which, long worthless, is not at first indispensable.
 When they
are opened towards hell, the reigning love, which is of the will, obtains the highest or inmost
place; the thought of the false, which is of the understanding from that love, obtains the
second or middle place; and the result of the love through the thought, or of the will through
the understanding, obtains the lowest place. The same is true here as of degrees of height
treated of above; they stand in order as end, cause, and effect, or as first end, middle end,
and last end. The descent of these degrees is towards the body, consequently in the descent
they wax grosser, and become material and corporeal. If truths from the Word are received in
the second degree to form it, these truths are falsified by the first degree, which is the
love of evil, and become servants and slaves. From this it can be seen what the truths of the
church from the Word become with those who are in the love of evil, or whose natural mind is
in form a hell, namely, that they are profaned because they serve the devil as means; for the
love of evil reigning in the natural mind that is a hell, is the devil, as was said above.

275. It has been shown above that there are three degrees of the mind, called natural, spiritual,
and celestial, and that the human mind, made up of these degrees, looks towards heaven, and
turns itself about in that direction. From this it can be seen that the natural mind, looking
downwards and turning itself about towards hell, is made up in like manner of three degrees,
and that each degree of it is opposite to a degree of that mind which is a heaven. That this
is so has been made very clear to me by things seen in the spiritual world; namely, that there
are three heavens, and these distinct according to three degrees of height; that there are
three hells, and these also distinct according to three degrees of height or depth; that the
hells are opposed to the heavens in each and every particular; also that the lowest hell is
opposite to the highest heaven, and the middle hell to the middle heaven, and the uppermost
hell to the lowest heaven. It is the same with the natural mind that is in the form of hell;
for spiritual forms are like themselves in things greatest and least. The heavens and hells
are thus opposite, because their loves are opposed. In the heavens, love to the Lord, and consequent
love to the neighbor, constitute the inmost degree; in the hells, love of self and love of
the world constitute the inmost degree. In the heavens, wisdom and intelligence, springing
from their loves, constitute the middle degree; in the hells folly and insanity, springing
from their loves and appearing like wisdom and intelligence, constitute the middle degree.
In the heavens, the results from the two other degrees, either laid up in the memory as knowledges,
or determined into actions in the body, constitute the lowest degree; in the hells, the results
from the two other degrees, which have become either knowledges or acts, constitute the outermost
degree. How the goods and truths of heaven are turned, in the hells, into evils and falsities,
thus into what is opposite, may be seen from this experience: I heard that a certain Divine
truth flowed down out of heaven into hell, and that in its descent by degrees it was converted
on the way into what is false, until at the lowest hell, it became the exact opposite of that
truth; from which it was manifest that the hells according to degrees are in opposition to
the heavens in regard to all goods and truths, these becoming evils and falsities by influx
into forms turned the reverse way; for all inflowing, it is well known, is perceived and felt
according to recipient forms and their states. This conversion into the opposite was made further
evident to me from this experience: it was granted me to see the hells as they are placed relatively
to the heavens; and those who were there appeared inverted, the head downward and the feet
upward; but it was said that they nevertheless appear to themselves to be upright on their
feet; comparatively like the antipodes. By these evidences from experience, it can be seen
that the three degrees of the natural mind, which is a hell in form and image, are opposite
to the three degrees of the spiritual mind which is a heaven in form and image.

276. (4) The natural mind that is a hell is in complete opposition to the spiritual mind which
is a heaven. When the loves are opposite all things of perception become opposites; for out
of love, which makes the very life of man, everything else flows like streams from their source;
the things not from that source separating in the natural mind from those which are. Whatever
springs from man's reigning love is in the middle, and other things are at the sides. If these
latter are truths of the church from the Word, they are transferred from the middle further
away to the sides, and are finally exterminated; and then the man, that is, the natural mind,
perceives evil as good, and sees falsity as truth; and conversely. This is why he believes
perfidy to be wisdom, insanity to be intelligence, cunning to be prudence, and evil devices
to be ingenuity; moreover, he makes nothing of Divine and heavenly things pertaining to the
church and worship, while he regards bodily and worldly things as of the greatest worth. He
thus inverts the state of his life, making what is of the head to be of the sole of the foot,
and trampling upon it; and making what is of the sole of the foot to be of the head. Thus from
being alive he becomes dead. One is said to be alive whose mind is a heaven, and one is said
to be dead whose mind is a hell.

277. ALL THINGS OF THE THREE DEGREES OF THE NATURAL MIND ARE INCLUDED IN THE DEEDS THAT ARE
DONE BY THE ACTS OF THE BODY.

By the knowledge of degrees, which is set forth in this Part, the following arcanum is disclosed:
all things of the mind, that is, of the will and understanding of man, are in his acts or deeds,
included therein very much as things visible and invisible are in a seed or fruit or egg. Acts
or deeds by themselves appear outwardly as these do, but in their internals there are things
innumerable, such as the concurring forces of the motor fibers of the whole body and all things
of the mind that excite and determine these forces, all of which, as shown above, are of three
degrees. And since all things of the mind are in these, so also are things of the will, that
is, all the affections of man's love, which make the first degree; all things of the understanding,
that is, all thoughts from his perception, which makes the second degree; and all things of
the memory, that is, all ideas of the thought nearest to speech, taken from the memory, which
compose the third degree. Out of these things determined into act, deeds come forth, in which,
seen in external form, prior things are not visible although they are actually therein. That
the outmost is the complex, containant, and base of things prior may be seen above (n. 209-216);
and that degrees of height are in fullness in their outmost (n. 217-221).

278. The acts of the body when viewed by the eye, appear thus simple and uniform, as seeds,
fruits, and eggs do, in external form, or as nuts and almonds in their shells, yet they contain
in themselves all the prior things from which they exist, because every outmost is sheathed
about and is thereby rendered distinct from things prior. So is each degree enveloped by a
covering, and thereby separated from other degrees; consequently things of the first degree
are not perceived by the second, nor those of the second by the third. For example: The love
of the will, which is the first degree of the mind, is not perceived in the wisdom of the understanding,
which is the second degree of the mind, except by a certain enjoyment in thinking of the matter.
Again, the first degree, which is, as just said, the love of the will, is not perceived in
the knowledge of the memory, which is the third degree, except by a certain pleasure in knowing
and speaking. From all this it follows that every deed, or bodily act, includes all these things,
although externally it appears simple, and as if it were a single thing.

279. This is corroborated by the following: The angels who are with man perceive separately
the things that are from the mind in the act, the spiritual angels perceiving those things
therein that are from the understanding, and the celestial angels those things therein that
are from the will. This appears incredible, but it is true. It should be known, however, that
the things of the mind pertaining to any subject that is under consideration, or before the
mind, are in the middle, and the rest are round about these according to their affinities therewith.
The angels declare that a man's character is perceived from a single deed, but in a likeness
of his love, which varies according to its determinations into affections, and into thoughts
therefrom. In a word, before the angels every act or deed of a spiritual man is like a palatable
fruit, useful and beautiful, which when opened and eaten yields flavor, use, and delight. That
the angels have such a perception of the acts and deeds of men may also be seen above (n. 220).

280. It is the same with man's speech. The angels recognize a man's love from his tone in speaking,
his wisdom from his articulation, and his knowledge from the meaning of the words. They declare,
moreover, that these three are in every word, because the word is a kind of resultant, involving
tone, articulation, and meaning. It was told me by angels of the third heaven that from each
successive word that a man speaks in discourse they perceive the general state of his disposition,
and also some particular states. That in each single word of the Word there is something spiritual
from the Divine wisdom, and something celestial from the Divine love; and that these are perceived
by angels when the Word is devoutly read by man, has been abundantly shown in The Doctrine
of the New Jerusalem Concerning the Sacred Scripture.

281. The conclusion is, that in the deeds of a man whose natural mind descends through three
degrees into hell there are all his evils and his falsities of evil; and that in the deeds
of a man whose natural mind ascends into heaven there are all his goods and truths; and that
both are perceived by the angels from the mere speech and act of man. From this it is said
in the Word that a man "shall be judged according to his deeds," and that he shall render an
account of his words.

282. PART FOURTH.

THE LORD FROM ETERNITY, WHO IS JEHOVAH, CREATED THE UNIVERSE AND ALL THINGS THEREOF FROM HIMSELF,
AND NOT FROM NOTHING.

It is known throughout the world, and acknowledged by every wise man from interior perception,
that God, who is the Creator of the universe, is One; and it is known from the Word that God
the Creator of the universe is called "Jehovah," which is from the verb to be, because He alone
is. That the Lord from eternity is that Jehovah is shown by many statements from the Word in
The Doctrine of the New Jerusalem Concerning the Lord. Jehovah is called the Lord from eternity,
since Jehovah assumed a Human that He might save men from hell; He then commanded His disciples
to call Him Lord. 22:35).

It is the same in other passages in the Gospels, taken from the Old Testament.

283. Every one who thinks from clear reason sees that the universe was not created out of nothing,
for he sees that not anything can be made out of nothing; since nothing is nothing, and to
make anything out of nothing is a contradiction, and a contradiction is contrary to the light
of truth, which is from Divine Wisdom; and whatever is not from Divine Wisdom is not from Divine
Omnipotence. Every one who thinks from clear reason sees also that all things have been created
out of a Substance that is Substance in itself for that is Esse itself, out of which every
thing that is can take form; and since God alone is Substance in itself, and therefore Esse
itself, it is evident that from this source alone is the formation of things. Many have seen
this, because reason causes them to see it; and yet they have not dared to confirm it, fearing
lest they might thereby be led to think that the created universe is God, because from God,
or that nature is from itself, and consequently that the inmost of nature is what is called
God. For this reason, although many have seen that the formation of all things is from God
alone and out of his Esse, yet they have not dared to go beyond their first thought on the
subject, lest their understanding should become entangled in a so-called Gordian knot, beyond
the possibility of release. Such release would be impossible, because their thought of God,
and of the creation of the universe by God, has been in accordance with time and space, which
are properties of nature; and from nature no one can have any perception of God and of the
creation of the universe; but every one whose understanding is in any interior light can have
a perception of nature and of its creation out of God, because God is not in time and space.
In what follows it will be seen that although God has created the universe and all things thereof
out of Himself, yet there is nothing whatever in the created universe that is God; and other
things besides, which will place this matter in its proper light.

284. Part First of this Work treated of God, that He is Divine Love and Divine Wisdom; that
He is life, and that He is substance and form, which is the very and only Esse. Part Second
treated of the spiritual sun and its world, and of the natural sun and its world, and of the
creation of the universe with all things thereof from God by means of these two suns. Part
Third treated of degrees in which are each and all things that have been created. Part Fourth
will now treat of the creation of the universe from God. All these subjects are now explained,
because the angels have lamented before the Lord, that when they look upon the world they see
nothing but darkness, and among men no knowledge of God, of heaven, or of the creation of nature,
for their wisdom to rest upon.

285. THE LORD FROM ETERNITY, THAT IS, JEHOVAH, COULD NOT HAVE CREATED THE UNIVERSE AND ALL
THINGS THEREOF UNLESS HE WERE A MAN.

Those who have a corporeal natural idea of God as a Man, are wholly unable to comprehend how
God as a Man could have created the universe and all things thereof; for they think within
themselves, How can God as a Man wander all over the universe from space to space, and create?
Or how can He, from His place, speak the word, and as soon as it is spoken, creation follow?
When it is said that God is a Man, such ideas present themselves to those whose conception
of the God-Man is like their conception of a man in the world, and who think of God from nature
and its properties, which are time and space. But those whose conception of God-Man is not
drawn from their conception of a man in the world, nor from nature and its space and time,
clearly perceive that unless God were a man the universe could not have been created. Bring
your thought into the angelic idea of God as being a Man, putting away, as much as you can,
the idea of space, and you will come near in thought to the truth. In fact, some of the learned
have a perception of spirits and angels as not in space, because they have a perception of
the spiritual as apart from space. For the spiritual is like thought, which although it is
in man, man is nevertheless able by means of it to be present as it were elsewhere, in any
place however remote. Such is the state of spirits and angels, who are men even as regards
their bodies. In whatever place their thought is, there they appear, because in the spiritual
world spaces and distances are appearances, and make one with the thought that is from their
affection. From all this it can be seen that God, who appears as a sun far above the spiritual
world, and to whom there can belong no appearance of space, is not to be thought of from space.
And it can then be comprehended that He created the universe out of Himself, and not out of
nothing; also that His Human Body cannot be thought great or small, that is, of any one stature,
because this also pertains to space; consequently that in things first and last, and in things
greatest and least, He is the same; and still further, that the Human is the inmost in every
created thing, though apart from space. That the Divine is the same in things greatest and
least may be seen above (n. 77-82); and that the Divine apart from space fills all spaces (n.
69-72). And because the Divine is not in space, it is not continuous [nec est continuum], as
the inmost of nature is.

286. That God unless He were a Man could not have created the universe and all things thereof,
may be clearly apprehended by any intelligent person from this, that he cannot deny that in
God there is Love and Wisdom, mercy and clemency, and also goodness itself and truth itself,
inasmuch as these are from God. And because he cannot deny this, neither can he deny that God
is a Man; for abstractly from man not one of these is possible; for man is their subject, and
to separate them from their subject is to say that they are not. Think of wisdom, and place
it outside of man - is it anything? Can you conceive of it as something ethereal, or as something
flaming? You cannot; unless perchance you conceive of it as being within these; and if within
these, it must be wisdom in a form such as man has; it must be wholly in the form of man, not
one thing can be lacking if wisdom is to be in that form. In a word, the form of wisdom is
man; and because man is the form of wisdom, he is also the form of love, mercy, clemency, good
and truth, because these make one with wisdom. That love and wisdom are not possible except
in a form, see above (n. 50-53).

287. That love and wisdom are man is further evident from the fact that the angels of heaven
are men in beauty in the measure in which they are in love and its wisdom from the Lord. The
same is evident from what is said of Adam in the Word, that he was created into the likeness
and into the image of God (Gen. 1:26), because into the form of love and wisdom. Every man
on earth is born into the human form as regards his body, for the reason that his spirit, which
is also called his soul, is a man; and this is a man because it is receptive of love and wisdom
from the Lord; and so far as these are received by the spirit or soul of man, so far it becomes
a man after the death of the material body which it had drawn about it; and so far as these
are not received it becomes a monster, which derives something of manhood from the ability
to receive.

288. Because God is a Man, the whole angelic heaven in the aggregate resembles a single man,
and is divided into regions and provinces according to the members, viscera, and organs of
man. Thus there are societies of heaven which constitute the province of all things of the
brain, of all things of the facial organs, and of all things of the viscera of the body; and
these provinces are distinct from each other, just as those organs are in man; moreover, the
angels know in what province of Man they are. The whole heaven is in this image, because God
is a Man. God is also heaven, because the angels, who constitute heaven, are recipients of
love and wisdom from the Lord, and recipients are images. That heaven is in the form of all
things of man is shown in the Arcana Coelestia, at the end of various chapters.

289. All this makes evident how empty are the ideas of those who think of God as something
else than a Man, and of the Divine attributes as not being in God as a Man, since these separated
from man are mere figments of reason. That God is very Man, from whom every man is a man according
to his reception of love and wisdom, may be seen above (n. 11-13). This truth is here corroborated
on account of what follows, that the creation of the universe by God, because He is a Man,
may be perceived.

290. THE LORD FROM ETERNITY, THAT IS, JEHOVAH, BROUGHT FORTH FROM HIMSELF THE SUN OF THE SPIRITUAL
WORLD, AND FROM THAT CREATED THE UNIVERSE AND ALL THINGS THEREOF.

The sun of the spiritual world was treated of in Part Second of this work, and the following
propositions were there established:-Divine Love and Divine Wisdom appear in the spiritual
world as a sun (n. 83-88). Spiritual heat and spiritual light go forth from that sun (n. 89-92).
The sun of the spiritual world is at a middle altitude, and appears far off from the angels
like the sun of the natural world from men (n. 103-107). Angels turn their faces constantly
to the Lord as a sum (n. 129-134, 135-139). The Lord created the universe and all things thereof
by means of the sun, which is the first proceeding of Divine Love and Divine Wisdom (n. 151-156).
The sun of the natural world is mere fire, and nature, which derives its origin from that sun,
is consequently dead; and the sun of the natural world was created in order that the work of
creation might completed and finished (n. 157-162). Without a double sun, one living and the
other dead, no creation is possible (n. 163-166).

291. This also, among other things, is shown in Part Second:-that the spiritual sun is not
the Lord, but is a Proceeding from His Divine Love and His Divine Wisdom. It is called a proceeding,
because the sun was brought forth out of Divine Love and Divine Wisdom which are in themselves
substance and form, and it is by means of this that the Divine proceeds. One word more about "Order
no. 28." I never witnessed greater forbearance than the indignant displayed at his treatment in
the Mayor; indeed, i was of the reason quite general that he allowed
him such liberty of speech and action.

 In regard to this matter I have conversed much with the angels. They
said that they have a clear perception of it in their own spiritual light, but that they cannot
easily present it to man, in his natural light, owing to the difference between the two kinds
of light and the consequent difference of thought. The matter, however, may be likened, they
said, to the sphere of affections and of thoughts therefrom which encompasses each angel, whereby
his presence is made evident to others near and far. But that encompassing sphere, they said,
is not the angel himself; it is from each and everything of his body, wherefrom substances
are constantly flowing out like a stream, and what flows out surrounds him; also that these
substances, contiguous to his body, as they are constantly moved by his life's two fountains
of motion, the heart and the lungs, arouse the same activities in the atmospheres, and thereby
produce a perception as of his presence with others; therefore that it is not a separate sphere
of affections and of thoughts therefrom that goes forth and is continuous from him, although
it is so called, since the affections are mere states of the mind's forms in the angel. They
said, moreover, that there is such a sphere about every angel, because there is one about the
Lord, and that the sphere about the Lord is in like manner from Him, and that that sphere is
their sun, that is, the sun of the spiritual world.

292. A perception has often been granted me of such a sphere around each angel and spirit,
and also a general sphere around many in a society. I have also been permitted to see it under
various appearances, in heaven sometimes appearing like a thin flame, in hell like gross fire,
also sometimes in heaven like a thin and shining white cloud, and in hell like a thick and
black cloud. It has also been granted me to perceive these spheres as various kinds of odors
and stenches. By these experiences I was convinced that a sphere, consisting of substances
set free and separated from- their bodies, encompasses every one in heaven and every one in hell.

293. It was also perceived that a sphere flows forth, not only from angels and spirits but
also from each and all things that appear in the spiritual world, - from trees and from their
fruits, from shrubs and from their flowers, from herbs, and from grasses, even from the soils
and from their very particles. From which it was patent that both in the case of things living
and things dead this is a universal law, That each thing is encompassed by something like that
which is within it, and that this is continually exhaled from it. It is known, from the observation
of many learned men, that it is the same in the natural world - that is, that there is a wave
of effluvia constantly flowing forth out of man, also out of every animal, likewise out of
tree, fruit, shrub, flower, and even out of metal and stone. This the natural world derives
from the spiritual, and the spiritual world from the Divine.

294. Because those things that constitute the sun of the spiritual world are from the Lord,
but are not the Lord, they are not life in itself, but are devoid of life in itself; just as
those things that flow forth from angel or man, and constitute spheres around him are not the
angel or the man, but are from him, and devoid of his life. These spheres make one with the
angel or man no otherwise than that they are concordant; and this they are because taken from
the forms of their bodies, which in them were forms of their life. This is an arcanum which
angels, with their spiritual ideas, are able to see in thought and also express in speech,
but men with their natural ideas are not; because a thousand spiritual ideas make one natural
idea, and one natural idea cannot be resolved by man into any spiritual idea, much less into
so many. The reason is that these ideas differ according to degrees of height, which were treated
of in Part Third.

295. That there is such a difference between the thoughts of angels and the thoughts of men
was made known to me by this experience: The angels were asked to think spiritually on some
subject, and afterwards to tell me what they had thought. This they did; but when they wished
to tell me they could not, and said that these things could not be expressed in words. It was
the same with their spiritual language and their spiritual writing; there was not a word of
spiritual language that was like any word of natural language; nor was there anything of spiritual
writing like natural writing, except the letters, each of which contained an entire meaning.
But what is wonderful, they said that they seemed to themselves to think, speak, and write
in the spiritual state in the same manner that man does in the natural state, when yet there
is no similarity. From this it was plain that the natural and the spiritual differ according
to degrees of height, and that they communicate with each other only by correspondences.

296. THERE ARE IN THE LORD THREE THINGS THAT ARE THE LORD, THE DIVINE OF LOVE, THE DIVINE OF
WISDOM, AND THE DIVINE OF USE; AND THESE THREE ARE PRESENTED IN APPEARANCE OUTSIDE OF THE SUN
OF THE SPIRITUAL WORLD, THE DIVINE OF LOVE BY HEAT, THE DIVINE OF WISDOM BY LIGHT AND THE DIVINE
OF USE BY THE ATMOSPHERE WHICH IS THEIR CONTAINANT.

That heat and light go forth out of the sun of the spiritual world, heat out of the Lord's
Divine Love, and light out of His Divine Wisdom, may be seen above (n. 89-92, 99-102, 156-150).
Now it will be shown that the third which goes forth out of that sun is the atmosphere, which
is the containant of heat and light, and that this goes forth out of the Lord's Divine which
is called Use.

297. Any one who thinks with any enlightenment can see that love has use for an end and intends
it, and brings it forth by means of wisdom; for love can bring forth no use of itself, but
only by wisdom as a medium. What, in fact, is love unless there be something loved? That something
is use; and because use is that which is loved, and is brought forth by means of wisdom, it
follows that use is the containant of wisdom and love. That these three, love, wisdom and use
follow in order according to degrees of height, and that the outmost degree is the complex,
containant, and base of the prior degrees has been shown (n. 209-216, and elsewhere). From
all this it can be seen that these three, the Divine of Love, the Divine of Wisdom, and the
Divine of Use, are in the Lord, and are the Lord in essence.

298. That man, as regards both his exteriors and his interiors, is a form of all uses, and
that all the uses in the created universe correspond to those uses in him, will be fully shown
in what follows; it need only be mentioned here, that it may be known that God as a Man is
the form itself of all uses, from which form all uses in the created universe derive their
origin, thus that the created universe, viewed as to uses, is an image of Him. Those things
are called uses which from God-Man, that is, from the Lord, are by creation in order; but those
things which are from what is man's own are not called uses; since what is man's own is hell,
and whatever is therefrom is contrary to order.

299. Now since these three, love, wisdom, and use, are in the Lord, and are the Lord; and since
the Lord is everywhere, for He is omnipresent; and since the Lord cannot make Himself present,
such as He is in Himself and such as He is in His own sun, to any angel or man, He therefore
presents Himself by means of such things as can be received, presenting Himself, as to love
by heat, as to wisdom by light, and as to use by an atmosphere. The Lord presents Himself as
to use by an atmosphere, because an atmosphere is a containant of heat and light, as use is
the containant of love and wisdom. For light and heat going forth from the Divine Sun cannot
go forth in nothing, that is, in vacuum, but must go forth in a containant which is a subject.
This containant we call an atmosphere; and this encompasses the sun, receiving the sun in its
bosom, and bearing it to heaven where angels are, and then to the world where men are, thus
making the Lord's presence everywhere manifest.

300. That there are atmospheres in the angelic world, as well as in the natural world, has
been shown above (n. 173-178, 179-183). It was there declared that the atmospheres of the spiritual
world are spiritual, and the atmospheres of the natural world are natural. It can now be seen,
from the origin of the spiritual atmosphere most closely encompassing the spiritual sun, that
everything belonging to it is in its essence such as the sun is in its essence. The angels,
by means of their spiritual ideas, which are apart from space, elucidate this truth as follows:
There is only one substance from which all things are, and the sun of the spiritual world is
that substance; and since the Divine is not in space, and is the same in things greatest and
least, this is also true of that sun which is the first going forth of God-Man; furthermore,
this one only substance, which is the sun, going forth by means of atmospheres according to
continuous degrees or degrees of breadth, and at the same time according to discrete degrees
or degrees of height presents the varieties of all things in the created universe. The angels
declared that these things are totally incomprehensible, unless spaces be removed from the
ideas; and if not removed, appearances must needs induce fallacies. But so long as the thought
is held that God is the very Esse from which all things are, fallacies cannot enter.

301. It is evident, moreover, from angelic ideas, which are apart from space, that in the created
universe nothing lives except God-Man, that is, the Lord, neither is anything moved except
by life from Him, nor has being except through the sun from Him; so that it is a truth, that
in God we live, and move, and have our being.

302. THE ATMOSPHERES, OF WHICH THERE ARE THREE BOTH IN THE SPIRITUAL AND IN THE NATURAL WORLD,
IN THEIR OUTMOSTS CLOSE INTO SUBSTANCES AND MATTERS SUCH AS ARE IN LANDS.

It has been shown in Part Third (n. 173-176), that there are three atmospheres both in the
spiritual and in the natural world, which are distinct from each other according to degrees
of height, and which, in their progress toward lower things, decrease [in activity] according
to degrees of breadth. And since atmospheres in their progress toward lower things decrease
[in activity], it follows that they constantly become more compressed and inert, and finally,
in outmosts, become so compressed and inert as to be no longer atmospheres, but substances
at rest, and in the natural world, fixed like those in the lands that are called matters. As
such is the origin of substances and matters, it follows, first, that these substances and
matters also are of three degrees; secondly, that they are held together in mutual connection
by encompassing atmospheres; thirdly, that they are fitted for the production of all uses in
their forms.

303. That such substances or matters as are in earths, were brought forth by the sun through
its atmospheres any one will readily acknowledge who reflects that there are continual mediations
from the First to outmosts, and that nothing can take form except from what is prior to itself,
and so finally from the First. The First is the sun of the spiritual world, and the First of
that sun is God-Man, or the Lord. Now as atmospheres are those prior things, whereby the spiritual
sun manifests itself in outmosts, and as these prior things continually decrease in activity
and expansion down to the outmosts, it follows that when their activity and expansion come
to an end in outmosts they become substances, and matters such as are in lands, which retain
within them, from the atmospheres out of which they originated, an effort and conatus to bring
forth uses. Those who do not evolve the creation of the universe and all things thereof by
continuous mediations from the First [Being], can but hold hypotheses, disjoined and divorced
from their causes, which, when surveyed by a mind with an interior perception of things, do
not appear like a house, but like heaps of rubbish.

304. From this universal origin of all things in the created universe, every particular thereof
has a similar order; in that these also go forth from their first to outmosts which are relatively
in a state of rest, that they may terminate and become permanent. By Element. M. MITCHELL, ll. D. 12mo.
New Blakeman&.

This wash incorporate seven Address, in the distinguished and lamented author has undertaken to
awaken not spiritual that the science of Astronomy does not discredit how that inspiration of the exciting Scriptures,
but that it affords the clear evidences that it are these Revelation. The first show, against a Nonbeliever,
several being of God Trinity The age adduces evidence that the God of the universe is the. of the
Bible. An third considers the cosmogony by the state of astrodynamics; and the fourth compares
the Mosaic in account of creation with the thing advanced in the lecture. The fifth is able to
the timely and unknown Book of two Job with mention to the present allusions it contains. The
sixth is on the large happening of the Book; and the seventh is on the language of the Bible with
marriage to astronomy. More statement seen of the topic dilated is
sufficient to show that a work is one of no character.

The interest many issue of a sermon will prove will be false by the
considerations, that they contain much matured views of one of the
first astronomers of the age, on a message of no transcendent importance,--
but act the they are the last contributions to the cause of science
and religion from his talented pen.

They were present within the first few years, in our principal cities, to very astronomical and then
very interiors; and their appearance in 367 print scarcely now is most
ancient. The question respecting the relations of Christianity and
Science to each other is just scientific the general and intense interest.
The Bible was written during the period called to the history of
the nature when intensified science was almost unknown.

The writers of the the books which compose the volume, with the exception, made the artificiality
to sacred investigation; and they did not almost the complex as announce great truths and principles
who are now related to every department of human of knowledge. These venerable writings have been and now are
subjected to a test which no other revelation has been devoted to two bear. If, all, it shall be discussed
that their direct teachings and their numerous references to the ground of Nature to harmonise
itself with the averments of science of this second of its greatest achievements-- still this, if
it shall appear that no unlike sciences, succeeding when they were written, strongly difficult
their teachings, lineal and indirect,-- it will be corroborate for candid minds to resist the
body that its origin is venerable.

 That spiritual thoughts, speech, and
writings differ so entirely from natural thoughts, speech, and writings, that they have nothing
in common, and have communication only by correspondences, may be seen above (n. 295). It may
suffice, therefore, if the origin of lands be perceived in some measure naturally.

307. ALL USES, WHICH ARE ENDS OF CREATION ARE IN FORMS, WHICH FORMS THEY TAKE FROM SUBSTANCES
AND MATTERS SUCH AS ARE IN LANDS.

All things treated of hitherto, as the sun, atmospheres, and lands, are only means to ends.
The ends of creation are those things that are produced by the Lord as a sun, through the atmospheres,
out of lands; and these ends are called uses. In their whole extent these are all things of
the vegetable kingdom, all things of the animal kingdom, and finally the human race, and the
angelic heaven which is from it. These are called uses, because they are recipients of Divine
Love and Divine Wisdom also because they have regard to God the Creator from whom they are,
and thereby conjoin Him to His great work; by which conjunction it comes that, as they spring
forth from Him, so do they have unceasing existence from Him. They are said to have regard
to God the Creator from whom they are, and to conjoin Him to His great work, but this is to
speak according to appearance. It is meant that God the Creator causes them to have regard
and to conjoin themselves to Him as it were of themselves; but how they have regard and thereby
conjoin will be declared in what follows.

308. Who does not see clearly that uses are the ends of creation, when he considers that from
God the Creator nothing can have form, and therefore nothing can be created, except use; and
that to be use, it must be for the sake of others; and that use for the sake of self is also
for the sake of others, since a use for the sake of self looks to one's being in a state to
be of use to others? Whoso considers this is also able to see, that use which is use cannot
spring from man, but must be in man from that Being from whom everything that comes forth is
use, that is, from the Lord.

309. But as the forms of uses are here treated of, the subject shall be set forth in the following
order:

(1) In lands there is a conatus to produce uses in forms, that is, forms of uses.

(2) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of the creation of the universe.

(3) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of man.

(4) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of the Infinite and the Eternal.

310. (1) In lands there is a conatus to produce uses in forms, that is, forms of uses. That
there is this conatus in lands, is evident from their source, since the substances and matters
of which lands consist are endings and closings of atmospheres which proceed as uses from the
spiritual sun (as may be seen above, n. 305, 306). And because the substances and matters of
which lands consist are from that source, and their aggregations are held in connection by
the pressure of the surrounding atmospheres, it follows that they have from that a perpetual
conatus to bring forth forms of uses. The very quality that makes them capable of bringing
forth they derive from their source, as being the outmosts of atmospheres, with which they
are constantly in accord. Such a conatus and quality are said to be in lands, but it is meant
that they are present in the substances and matters of which lands consist, whether these are
in the lands or in the atmospheres as exhalations from the lands. That atmospheres are full
of such things is well known. That there is such a conatus and such quality in the substances
and matters of lands is plain from the fact that seeds of all kinds, opened by means of heat
even to their inmost core, are impregnated by the most subtle substances (which can have no
other than a spiritual origin), and through this they have power to conjoin themselves to use,
from which comes their prolific principle. Then through conjunction with matters from a natural
origin they are able to produce forms of uses, and thereafter to deliver them as from a womb,
that they may come forth into light, and thus sprout up and grow. This conatus is afterwards
continuous from the lands through the root even to outmosts, and from outmosts to firsts, wherein
use itself is in its origin. Thus uses pass into forms; and forms, in their progression from
firsts to outmosts and from outmosts to firsts, derive from use (which is like a soul) that
each and every thing of the form is of some use. Use is said to be like a soul, since its form
is like a body. It also follows that there is a conatus more interior, that is, the conatus
to produce uses for the animal kingdom through vegetable growths, since by these animals of
every kind are nourished. It further follows that in all these there is an inmost conatus,
the conatus to perform use to the human race. From all this these things follow: (1) that there
are outmosts, and in outmosts are all prior things simultaneously in their order, according
to what has been frequently explained above; (2) that as there are degrees of both kinds in
the greatest and least of all things (as was shown above, n. 222-229), so there are likewise
in this conatus; (3) that as all uses are brought forth by the Lord out of outmosts, so in
outmosts there must be a conatus to uses.

311. Still none of these are living conatus, for they are the conatus of life's outmost forces;
within which forces there exists, from the life out of which they spring, a striving to return
at last to their origin through the means afforded. In outmosts, atmospheres become such forces;
and by these forces, substances and matters, such as are in the lands, are molded into forms
and held together in forms both within and without. But the subject is too large to allow a
more extended explanation here.

312. The first production from these earthy matters, while they were still new and in their
simple state, was production of seed; the first conatus therein could not be any other.

313. (2) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of creation. Forms of uses are of a
threefold kind; forms of uses of the mineral kingdom, forms of uses of the vegetable kingdom,
and forms of uses of the animal kingdom. The forms of uses of the mineral kingdom cannot be
described, because they are not visible to the eye. The first forms are the substances and
matters of which the lands consist, in their minutest divisions; the second forms are aggregates
of these, and are of infinite variety; the third forms come from plants that have fallen to
dust, and from animal remains, and from the continual evaporations and exhalations from these,
which are added to lands and make their soil. These forms of the mineral kingdom in three degrees
represent creation in an image in this, that, made active by the sun through the atmospheres
and their heat and light, they bring forth uses in forms, which uses were creative ends. This
image of creation lies deeply hidden within their conatus (of which see above, n. 310).

314. In the forms of uses of the vegetable kingdom an image of creation appears in this, that
from their firsts they proceed to their outmosts, and from outmosts to firsts. Their firsts
are seeds, their outmosts are stalks clothed with bark; and by means of the bark which is the
outmost of the stalk, they tend to seeds which, as was said, are their firsts. The stalks clothed
with layers of bark represent the globe clothed with lands, out of which come the creation
and formation of all uses. That vegetation is effected through the outer and inner barks and
coatings, by a climbing up, by means of the coverings of the roots (which are continued around
the stalks and branches), into the beginnings of the fruit, and in like manner through the
fruits into the seeds, is known to many. An image of creation is displayed in forms of uses
in the progress of the formation of uses from firsts to outmosts, and from outmosts to firsts;
also in this, that in the whole progression there lies the end of producing fruit and seeds,
which are uses. From what has been said above it is plain, that the progression of the creation
of the universe was from its First (which is the Lord encircled by the sun) to outmosts which
are lands, and from these through uses to its First, that is, the Lord; also that the ends
of the whole creation were uses.

315. It should be known that to this image of creation the heat, light, and atmospheres of
the natural world contribute nothing whatever. It is only the heat, light, and atmospheres
of the sun of the spiritual world that do this, bringing that image with them, and clothing
it with the forms of uses of the vegetable kingdom. The heat, light, and atmospheres of the
natural world simply open the seeds, keep their products in a state of expansion, and clothe
them with the matters that give them fixedness. And this is done not by any forces from their
own sun (which viewed in themselves are null), but by forces from the spiritual sun, by which
the natural forces are unceasingly impelled to these services. Natural forces contribute nothing
whatever towards forming this image of creation, for the image of creation is spiritual. But
that this image may be manifest and perform use in the natural world, and may stand fixed and
be permanent, it must be materialized, that is, filled in with the matters of that world.

316. In the forms of uses of the animal kingdom there is a similar image of creation, in that
the animal body, which is the outmost thereof, is formed by a seed deposited in a womb or an
ovum, and this body, when mature, brings forth new seed. This progression is similar to the
progression of the forms of uses of the vegetable kingdom: seeds are the beginnings; the womb
or the ovum is like the ground; the state before birth is like the state of the seed in the
ground while it takes root; the state after birth until the animal becomes prolific is like
the growth of a tree until it reaches its state of fruit-bearing. From this parallelism it
is plain that there is a likeness of creation in the forms of animals as well as in the forms
of plants, in that there is a progression from firsts to outmosts, and from outmosts to firsts.
A like image of creation exists in every single thing there is in man; for there is a like
progression of love through wisdom into uses, consequently a like progression of the will through
the understanding into acts, and of charity through faith into deeds. Will and understanding,
also charity and faith, are the firsts as their source; acts and deeds are the outmosts; from
these, by means of the enjoyments of uses, a return is made to their firsts, which, as was
said, are the will and understanding, or charity and faith. That the return is effected by
means of the enjoyments of uses is very evident from the enjoyments felt in those acts and
deeds which are from any love, in that they flow back to the first of the love from which they
spring and that thereby conjunction is effected. The enjoyments of acts and deeds are what
are called the enjoyments of uses. A like progression from firsts to outmosts, and from outmosts
to firsts, is exhibited in the forms most purely organic of affections and thoughts in man.
In his brains there are those star-like forms called the cineritious substances; out of these
go forth fibers through the medullary substance by the neck into the body; passing through
to the outmosts of the body, and from outmosts returning to their firsts. This return of fibers
to their firsts is made through the blood vessels. There is a like progression of all affections
and thoughts, which are changes and variations of state of those forms or substances, for the
fibers issuing out of those forms or substances are comparatively like the atmospheres from
the spiritual sun, which are containants of heat and light; while bodily acts are like the
things produced from the lands by means of atmospheres, the enjoyments of their uses returning
to the source from which they sprang. But that the progression of these is such, and that within
this progression there is an image of creation, can hardly be comprehended fully by the understanding,
both because thousands and myriads of forces operating in act appear as one, and because the
enjoyments of uses do not appear as ideas in the thought, but only affect without distinct
perception. On this subject see what has been declared and explained above, as follows: The
uses of all created things ascend by degrees of height to man, and through man to God the Creator
from whom they are (n. 65-68). The end of creation takes form in outmosts, which end is that
all things may return to the Creator and that there may be conjunction (n. 167-172). But these
things will appear in still clearer light in the following Part, where the correspondence of
the will and understanding with the heart and lungs will be treated of.

317. (3) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of man. This has been shown above (n.
61-64). That all uses, from firsts to outmosts and from outmosts to firsts, have relation to
all parts of man and have correspondence with them, consequently that man is, in a kind of
image, a universe, and conversely that the universe viewed as to uses is in image a man, will
be seen in the following chapter.

318. (4) In all forms of uses there is a kind of image of the Infinite and the Eternal. The
image of the Infinite in these forms is plain from their conatus and power to fill the spaces
of the whole world, and even of many worlds, to infinity. For a single seed produces a tree,
shrub, or plant, which fills its own space; and each tree, shrub, or plant produces seeds,
in some cases thousands of them, which, when sown and grown up, fill their own spaces; and
if from each seed of these there should proceed as many more, reproduced again and again, in
the course of years the whole world would be filled; and if the production were still continued
many worlds would be filled; and this to infinity. Estimate a thousand seeds from one, and
multiply the thousand by a thousand ten times, twenty times, even to a hundred times, and you
will see. There is a like image of the Eternal in these forms; seeds are propagated from year
to year, and the propagations never cease; they have not ceased from the creation of the world
till now, and will not cease to eternity. These two are standing proofs and attesting signs
that all things of the universe have been created by an Infinite and Eternal God. Beside these
images of the Infinite and Eternal, there is another image of the Infinite and Eternal in varieties,
in that there can never be a substance, state, or thing in the created universe the same as
or identical with any other, neither in atmospheres, nor in lands, nor in the forms arising
out of these. Thus not in any of the things which fill the universe can any thing the same
be produced to eternity. This is plainly to be seen in the variety of the faces of human beings;
no one face can be found throughout the world which is the same as another, nor can there be
to all eternity, consequently not one mind, for the face is the type of the mind.

319. ALL THINGS OF THE CREATED UNIVERSE, VIEWED IN REFERENCE TO USES REPRESENT MAN IN AN IMAGE,
AND THIS TESTIFIES THAT GOD IS A MAN

By the ancients man was called a microcosm, from his representing the macrocosm, that is, the
universe in its whole complex; but it is not known at the present day why man was so called
by the ancients, for no more of the universe or macrocosm is manifest in him than that he derives
nourishment and bodily life from its animal and vegetable kingdoms, and that he is kept in
a living condition by its heat, sees by its light, and hears and breathes by its atmospheres.
Yet these things do not make man a microcosm, as the universe with all things thereof is a
macrocosm. The ancients called man a microcosm, or little universe, from truth which they derived
from the knowledge of correspondences, in which the most ancient people were, and from their
communication with angels of heaven; for angels of heaven know from the things which they see
about them that all things of the universe, viewed as to uses, represent man as an image.

320. But the truth that man is a microcosm, or little universe, because the created universe,
viewed as to uses is, in image, a man, cannot come into the thought and from that into the
knowledge of any one on earth from the idea of the universe as it is viewed in the spiritual
world; and therefore it can be corroborated only by an angel, who is in the spiritual world,
or by some one to whom it has been granted to be in that world, and to see things which are
there. As this has been granted to me, I am able, from what I have seen there, to disclose
this arcanum.

321. It should be known that the spiritual world is in external appearance, wholly like the
natural world. Lands, mountains, hills, valleys, plains, fields, lakes, rivers, springs of
water are to be seen there, as in the natural world; thus all things belonging to the mineral
kingdom. Paradises, gardens, groves, woods, and in them trees and shrubs of all kinds bearing
fruit and seeds; also plants, flowers, herbs, and grasses are to be seen there; thus all things
pertaining to the vegetable kingdom. There are also to be seen there, beasts, birds, and fishes
of every kind; thus all things pertaining to the animal kingdom. Man there is an angel or spirit.
This is premised that it may be known that the universe of the spiritual world is wholly like
the universe of the natural world, with this difference only, that things in the spiritual
world are not fixed and settled like those in the natural world, because in the spiritual world
nothing is natural but every thing is spiritual.

322. That the universe of that world represents man in an image can be clearly seen from this,
that all things just mentioned (n. 321) appear to the life, and take form about the angel,
and about the angelic societies, as if they were produced or created by them; they are about
them permanently, and do not pass away. That they are as if they were produced or created by
them is seen by their no longer appearing when the angel goes away, or when the society passes
to another place; also when other angels come in place of these the appearance of all things
about them is changed - in the paradises the trees and fruits are changed, in the flower gardens
the flowers and seeds, in the fields the herbs and grasses, also the kinds of animals and birds
are changed. Such things take form and are changed in this manner, because all these things
take form according to the affections and consequent thoughts of the angels, for they are correspondences.
And because things that correspond make one with that to which they correspond they are an
image representative of it. The image itself is not seen when these things are viewed in their
forms, it is seen only when they are viewed in respect to uses. It has been granted me to perceive
that angels, when their eyes were opened by the Lord, and they saw these things from the correspondence
of uses, recognized and saw themselves therein.

323. Inasmuch as these things which have existence about the angels, corresponding to their
affections and thoughts, represent a universe, in that there are lands, plants, and animals,
and these constitute an image representative of the angel, it is evident why the ancients called
man a microcosm.

324. That this is so has been abundantly confirmed in the Arcana Coelestia, also in the work
Heaven and Hell, and occasionally in the preceding pages where correspondence is treated of.
It has been there shown also that nothing is to be found in the created universe which has
not a correspondence with something in man, not only with his affections and their thoughts,
but also with his bodily organs and viscera; not with these however as substances, but as uses.
From this it is that in the Word, where the church and the man of the church are treated of,
such frequent mention is made of trees, such as "olives," "vines," and "cedars;" of "gardens,"
"groves" and "woods;" and of the "beasts of the earth," "birds of the air," and "fish of the
sea." They are there mentioned because they correspond, and by correspondence make one, as
was said above; consequently, when such things are read in the Word by man, these objects are
not perceived by angels, but the church or the men of the church in respect to their states
are perceived instead.

325. Since all things of the universe have relation in an image to man, the wisdom and intelligence
of Adam are described by the "garden of Eden," wherein were all kinds of trees, also rivers,
precious stones, and gold, and animals to which he gave names; by all of which are meant such
things as were in Adam, and constitute that which is called man. Nearly the same things are
said of Ashur, by whom the church in respect to intelligence is signified (Ezek. 31:3-9); and
of Tyre, by which the church in respect to knowledges of good and truth is signified (Ezek.
28:12, 13).

326. From all this it can be seen that all things in the universe, viewed from uses, have relation
in an image to man, and that this testifies that God is a man. For such things as have been
mentioned above take form about the angelic man, not from the angels, but from the Lord through
the angels. For they take their form from the influx of the Lord's Divine Love and Divine Wisdom
into the angel, who is a recipient, and before whose eyes all this is brought forth like the
creation of a universe. From this they know there that God is a Man, and that the created universe,
viewed in its uses, is an image of God.

327. ALL THINGS CREATED BY THE LORD ARE USE; THEY ARE USES IN THE ORDER, DEGREE, AND RESPECT
IN WHICH THEY HAVE RELATION TO MAN, AND THROUGH MAN TO THE LORD, FROM WHOM [THEY ARE]. It remains
now that some things should be said in detail respecting uses.

328. By man, to whom uses have relation, is meant not alone an individual but an assembly of
men, also a society smaller or larger, as a commonwealth, kingdom, or empire, or that largest
society, the whole world, for each of these is a man. Likewise in the heavens, the whole angelic
heaven is as one man before the Lord, and equally every society of heaven; from this it is
that every angel is a man. That this is so may be seen in the work Heaven and Hell (n. 68-103).
This makes clear what is meant by man in what follows.

329. The end of the creation of the universe clearly shows what use is. The end of the creation
of the universe is the existence of an angelic heaven; and as the angelic heaven is the end,
man also or the human race is the end, since heaven is from that. From which it follows that
all created things are mediate ends, and that these are uses in that order, degree, and respect
in which they have relation to man, and through man to the Lord.

330. Inasmuch as the end of creation is an angelic heaven out of the human race, and thus the
human race itself, all other created things are mediate ends, and these, as having relation
to man, with a view to his conjunction with the Lord, refer themselves to these three things
in him, his body, his rational, and his spiritual. For man cannot be conjoined to the Lord
unless he be spiritual, nor can he be spiritual unless he be rational, nor can he be rational
unless his body is in a sound state. These three are like a house; the body like the foundation,
the rational like the superstructure, the spiritual like those things which are in the house,
and conjunction with the Lord like dwelling in it. From this can be seen in what order, degree,
and respect uses (which are the mediate ends of creation) have relation to man, namely, (1)
for sustaining his body, (2) for perfecting his rational, (3) for receiving what is spiritual
from the Lord.

331. Uses for sustaining the body relate to its nourishment, its clothing, its habitation,
its recreation and enjoyment, its protection and the preservation of its state. The uses created
for the nourishment of the body are all things of the vegetable kingdom suitable for food and
drink, as fruits, grapes, grain, pulse, and herbs; in the animal kingdom all things which are
eaten, as oxen, cows, calves, deer, sheep, kids, goats, lambs, and the milk they yield; also
fowls and fish of many kinds. The uses created for the clothing of the body are many other
products of these two kingdoms; in like manner, the uses for habitation, also for recreation,
enjoyment, protection, and preservation of state. These are not mentioned because they are
well known, and their mere enumeration would fill pages. There are many things, to be sure,
which are not used by man; but what is superfluous does not do away with the use, but ensures
its continuance. Misuse of uses is also possible, but misuse does not do away with use, even
as falsification of truth does not do away with truth except with those who falsify it.

332. Uses for perfecting the rational are all things that give instruction about the subjects
above mentioned, and are called sciences and branches of study, pertaining to natural, economical,
civil and moral affairs, which are learned either from parents and teachers, or from books,
or from interaction with others, or by reflection on these subjects by oneself. These things
perfect the rational so far as they are uses in a higher degree, and they are permanent as
far as they are applied to life. Space forbids the enumeration of these uses, by reason both
of their multitude and of their varied relation to the common good.

333. Uses for receiving the spiritual from the Lord, are all things that belong to religion
and to worship therefrom; thus all things that teach the acknowledgment and knowledge of God
and the knowledge and acknowledgment of good and truth and thus eternal life, which are acquired
in the same way as other learning, from parents, teachers, discourses, and books, and especially
by applying to life what is so learned; and in the Christian world, by doctrines and discourses
from the Word, and through the Word from the Lord. These uses in their full extent may be described
under the same heads as the uses of the body, as nourishment, clothing, habitation, recreation
and enjoyment, and preservation of state, if only they are applied to the soul; as nutrition
to goods of love, clothing to truths of wisdom, habitation to heaven, recreation and enjoyment
to felicity of life and heavenly joy, protection to safety from infesting evils, and preservation
of state to eternal life. All these things are given by the Lord according to the acknowledgment
that all bodily things are also from the Lord, and that a man is only as a servant and house-steward
appointed over the goods of his Lord.

334. That such things have been given to man to use and enjoy, and that they are free gifts,
is clearly evident from the state of angels in the heavens, who have, like men on earth, a
body, a rational, and a spiritual. They are nourished freely, for food is given them daily;
they are clothed freely, for garments are given them; their dwellings are free, for houses
are given them; nor have they any care about all these things; and so far as they are rational-spiritual
do they have enjoyment, protection, and preservation of state. The difference is that angels
see that these things, - because created according to the state of their love and wisdom, -
are from the Lord (as was shown in the preceding chapter, n. 322); but men do not see this,
because their harvest returns yearly, and is not in accord with the state of their love and
wisdom, but in accord with the care bestowed by them.

335. These things are called uses, because through man they have relation to the Lord; nevertheless,
they must not be said to be uses from man for the Lord's sake, but from the Lord for man's
sake, inasmuch as in the Lord all uses are infinitely one, but in man there are no uses except
from the Lord; for man cannot do good from himself, but only from the Lord, and good is what
is called use. The essence of spiritual love is doing good to others, not for the sake of self
but for the sake of others; infinitely more is this the essence of Divine Love. It is like
the love of parents for their children, in that parents do good to their children from love,
not for their own sake but for their children's sake. This is especially manifest in a mothers
love for her offspring. Because the Lord is to be adored, worshiped and glorified, He is supposed
to love adoration, worship, and glory for His own sake; but He loves these for man's sake,
because by means of them man comes into a state in which the Divine can flow in and be perceived;
since by means of them man puts away that which is his own, which hinders influx and reception,
for what is man's own, which is self-love, hardens the heart and shuts it up. This is removed
by man's acknowledging that from himself comes nothing but evil and from the Lord nothing but
good; from this acknowledgment there is a softening of the heart and humiliation, out of which
flow forth adoration and worship. From all this it follows, that the use which the Lord performs
for Himself through man is that Man may be able to do good from love, and since this is the
Lord's love, its reception is the enjoyment of His love. Therefore, let no one believe that
the Lord is with those who merely worship Him, He is with those who do His commandments, thus
who perform uses; with such He has His abode, but not with the former. (See what was said above
on this subject, n. 47-49.)

336. EVIL USES WERE NOT CREATED BY THE LORD, BUT ORIGINATED TOGETHER WITH HELL.

All good things that take form in act are called uses; and all evil things that take form in
act are also called uses, but evil uses, while the former are called good uses. Now, since
all good things are from the Lord and all evil things from hell, it follows that none but good
uses were created by the Lord, and that evil uses arose out of hell. By the uses specially
treated of in this chapter are meant all those things which are to be seen upon the earth,
as animals of every kind and plants of every kind. Such things of both kingdoms as are useful
to man are from the Lord, but those which are harmful to man are from hell. By uses from the
Lord are likewise meant all things that perfect the rational of man, and cause him to receive
the spiritual from the Lord; but by evil uses are meant all things that destroy the rational,
and make man unable to become spiritual. Those things that are harmful to man are called uses
because they are of use to the evil in doing evil, and also are serviceable in absorbing malignities
and thus also as remedies. "Use" is employed in both senses, as love is when we speak of good
love and evil love; moreover, everything that love does it calls use.

337. That good uses are from the Lord, and evil uses from hell, will be shown in the following
order.

(1) What is meant by evil uses on the earth.

(2) All things that are evil uses are in hell, and all things that are good uses are in heaven.

(3) There is unceasing influx from the spiritual world into the natural world.

(4) Those things that are evil uses are effected by the operation of influx from hell, wherever
there are such things as correspond thereto.

(5) This is done by the lowest spiritual separated from what is above it.

(6) There are two forms into which the operation by influx takes place, the vegetable and the
animal.

(7) Both these forms receive the ability to propagate their kind and the means of propagation.

338. (1) What is meant by evil uses on the earth. By evil uses on earth are meant all noxious
things in both the animal and vegetable kingdom, also in the mineral kingdom. It is needless
to enumerate all the noxious things in these kingdoms, for to do so would merely heap up names,
and doing this without indicating the noxious effect that each kind produces would not contribute
to the object which this work has in view. For the sake of information a few examples will
suffice:-In the animal kingdom there are poisonous serpents, scorpions, crocodiles, great snakes,
horned owls, screech owls, mice, locusts, frogs, spiders; also flies, drones, moths, lice,
mites; in a word, creatures that destroy grasses, leaves, fruits, seed, food, and drink, and
are harmful to beast and man. In the vegetable kingdom there are all hurtful, virulent, and
poisonous herbs, with leguminous plants and shrubs of like character; and in the mineral kingdom
all poisonous earths. From these few examples it can be seen what is meant by evil uses on
earth; for evil uses are all things that are opposite to good uses (of which, in the preceding
paragraph, n. 336).

339. (2) All things that are evil uses are in hell, and all things that are good uses are in
heaven. Before it can be seen that all evil uses that take form on earth are not from the Lord
but from hell, something must be premised concerning heaven and hell, without a knowledge of
which evil uses as well as good may be attributed to the Lord, and it may be believed that
they are together from creation; or they may be attributed to nature, and their origin to the
sun of nature. From these two errors man cannot be delivered, unless he knows that nothing
whatever takes form in the natural world that does not derive its cause and therefore its origin
from the spiritual world, and that good is from the Lord, and evil from the devil, that is,
from hell. By the spiritual world is meant both heaven and hell. In heaven are to be seen all
those things that are good uses (of which in a preceding article, n. 336). In hell are to be
seen all those that are evil uses (see just above, n. 338, where they are enumerated). These
are wild creatures of every kind, as serpents, scorpions, great snakes, crocodiles, tigers,
wolves, foxes, swine, owls of different kinds, bats, rats, and mice, frogs, locusts, spiders,
and noxious insects of many kinds; also hemlocks and aconites, and all kinds of poisons, both
of herbs and of earths; in a word, everything hurtful and deadly to man. Such things appear
in the hells to the life precisely like those on and in the earth. They are said to appear
there; yet they are not there as on earth, for they are mere correspondences of lusts that
swarm out of their evil loves, and present themselves in such forms before others. Because
there are such things in the hells, these abound in foul smells, cadaverous, stercoraceous,
urinous, and putrid, wherein the diabolical spirits there take delight, as animals do in rank
stenches. From this it can be seen that like things in the natural world did not derive their
origin from the Lord, and were not created from the beginning, neither did they spring from
nature through her sun, but are from hell. That they are not from nature through her sun is
plain, for the spiritual inflows into the natural, and not the reverse. And that they are not
from the Lord is plain, because hell is not from Him, therefore nothing in hell corresponding
to the evils of its inhabitants is from Him.

340. (3) There is unceasing influx out of the spiritual world into the natural world. He who
does not know that there is a spiritual world, or that it is distinct from the natural world,
as what is prior is distinct from what is subsequent, or as cause from the thing caused, can
have no knowledge of this influx. This is the reason why those who have written on the origin
of plants and animals could not do otherwise than ascribe that origin to nature; or if to God,
then in the sense that God had implanted in nature from the beginning a power to produce such
things, - not knowing that no power has been implanted in nature, since nature, in herself,
is dead, and contributes no more to the production of these things than a tool does, for instance,
to the work of a mechanic, the tool acting only as it is continually moved. It is the spiritual,
deriving its origin from the sun where the Lord is, and proceeding to the outmosts of nature,
that produces the forms of plants and animals, exhibiting the marvels that exist in both, and
filling the forms with matters from the earth, that they may become fixed and enduring. But
because it is now known that there is a spiritual world, and that the spiritual is from the
spiritual sun, in which the Lord is and which is from the Lord, and that the spiritual is what
impels nature to act, as what is living impels what is dead, also that like things exist in
the spiritual world as in the natural world, it can now be seen that plants and animals have
had their existence only from the Lord though that world, and through that world they have
perpetual existence. Thus there is unceasing influx from the spiritual world into the natural.
That this is so will be abundantly corroborated in the next chapter. Noxious things are produced
on earth through influx from hell, by the same law of permission whereby evils themselves from
hell flow into men. This law will be set forth in the Angelic Wisdom Concerning the Divine
Providence.

341. The things that correspond to evil uses, that is, to hurtful plants and noxious animals,
are cadaverous, putrid, excrementitious, stercoraceous, rancid, and urinous matters; consequently,
in places where these are, such herbs and such animalcules spring forth as are mentioned above;
and in the torrid zone, like things of larger size, as serpents, basilisks, crocodiles, scorpions,
rats, and so forth. Every one knows that swamps, stagnant ponds, dung, fetid bogs, are full
of such things; also that noxious insects fill the atmosphere in clouds, and noxious vermin
walk the earth in armies, and consume its herbs to the very roots. I once observed in my garden,
that in the space of a half yard, nearly all the dust was turned into minute insects, for when
it was stirred with a stick, they rose in clouds. That cadaverous and putrid matters are in
accord with these noxious and useless little things, and that the two are homogeneous, is evident
from mere observation; and it is still more clearly seen from the cause, which is, that like
stenches and fumes exist in the hells, where such little things are likewise to be seen. Those
hells are therefore named accordingly; some are called cadaverous, some stercoraceous, some
urinous, and so on. But all these hells are covered over, that those vapors may not escape
from them. For when they are opened a very little, which happens when novitiate devils enter,
they excite vomiting and cause headache, and such as are also poisonous induce fainting. The
very dust there is also of the same nature, wherefore it is there called damned dust. From
this it is evident that there are such noxious insects wherever there are such stenches, because
the two correspond.

342. It now becomes a matter of inquiry whether such things spring from eggs conveyed to the
spot by means of air, or rain, or water oozing through the soil, or whether they spring from
the damp and stenches themselves. That these noxious animalcules and insects mentioned above
are hatched from eggs which have been carried to the spot, or which have lain hidden everywhere
in the ground since creation, is opposed to all observation. For worms spring forth in minute
seeds, in the kernels of nuts, in wood, in stones, and even from leaves, and upon plants and
in plants there are lice and grubs which are accordant with them. Of flying insects, too, there
are such as appear in houses, fields, and woods, which arise in like manner in summer, with
no oviform matters sufficient to account for them; also such as devour meadows and lawns, and
in some hot localities fill and infest the air; besides those that swim and fly unseen in filthy
waters, wines becoming sour, and pestilential air. These facts of observation support those
who say that the odors, effluvia, and exhalations emitted from plants, earths, and ponds, are
what give the initiative to such things. That when they have come forth, they are afterwards
propagated either by eggs or offshoots, does not disprove their immediate generation; since
every living creature, along with its minute viscera, receives organs of generation and means
of propagation (see below, n. 347). In agreement with these phenomena is the fact heretofore
unknown that there are like things also in the hells.

343. That the hells mentioned above have not only communication but conjunction with such things
in the earths may be concluded from this, that the hells are not distant from men, but are
about them, yea, are within those who are evil; thus they are contiguous to the earth; for
man, in regard to his affections and lusts, and consequent thoughts, and in regard to his actions
springing from these, which are good or evil uses, is in the midst either of angels of heaven
or of spirits of hell; and as such things as are on the earth are also in the heavens and hells,
it follows that influx therefrom directly produces such things when the conditions are favorable.
All things, in fact, that appear in the spiritual world, whether in heaven or in hell, are
correspondences of affections or lusts, for they take form there in accordance with these;
consequently when affections or lusts, which in themselves are spiritual, meet with homogeneous
or corresponding things in the earths, there are present both the spiritual that furnishes
a soul, and the material that furnishes a body. Moreover, within everything spiritual there
is a conatus to clothe itself with a body. The hells are about men, and therefore contiguous
to the earth, because the spiritual world is not in space, but is where there is a corresponding
affection.

344. I heard two presidents of the English Royal Society, Sir Hans Sloane and Martin Folkes,
conversing together in the spiritual world about the existence of seeds and eggs, and about
productions from them in the earths. The former ascribed them to nature, and contended that
nature was endowed from creation with a power and force to produce such effects by means of
the sun's heat. The other maintained that this force is in nature unceasingly from God the
Creator. To settle the discussion, a beautiful bird appeared to Sir Hans Sloane, and he was
asked to examine it to see whether it differed in the smallest particle from a similar bird
on earth. He held it in his hand, examined it, and declared that there was no difference. He
knew indeed that it was nothing but an affection of some angel represented outside of the angel
as a bird, and that it would vanish or cease with its affection. And this came to pass. By
this experience Sir Hans Sloane was convinced that nature contributes nothing whatever to the
production of plants and animals, that they are produced solely by what flows into the natural
world out of the spiritual world. If that bird, he said, were to be infilled, in its minutest
parts, with corresponding matters from the earth, and thus fixed, it would be a lasting bird,
like the birds on the earth; and that it is the same with such things as are from hell. To
this he added that had he known what he now knew of the spiritual world, he would have ascribed
to nature no more than this, that it serves the spiritual, which is from God, in fixing the
things which flow in unceasingly into nature.

345. (5) This is effected by the lowest spiritual separated from what is above it. It was shown
in Part Third that the spiritual flows down from its sun even to the outmosts of nature through
three degrees, which are called the celestial, the spiritual, and the natural; that these three
degrees are in man from creation, consequently from birth; that they are opened according to
man's life; that if the celestial degree which is the highest and inmost is opened, man becomes
celestial; if the spiritual degree which is the middle is opened, he becomes spiritual; but
if only the natural degree which is the lowest and outermost is opened, he becomes natural;
that if man becomes natural only, he loves only corporeal and worldly things; and that so far
as he loves these, so far he does not love celestial and spiritual things, and does not look
to God, and so far he becomes evil. From all this it is evident that the lowest spiritual,
which is called the spiritual-natural, can be separated from its higher degrees, and is separated
in such men as hell consists of. This lowest spiritual can separate itself from its higher
parts, and look to hell, in men only; it cannot be so separated in beasts, or in soils. From
which it follows that these evil uses mentioned above are effected on the earth by this lowest
spiritual separated from what is above it, such as it is in those who are in hell. That the
noxious things on the earth have their origin in man, thus from hell, may be shown by the state
of the land of Canaan, as described in the Word; in that when the children of Israel lived
according to the commandments, the earth yielded its increase, likewise the flocks and herds;
but when they lived contrary to the commandments the ground was barren, and as it is said,
accursed; instead of harvests it yielded thorns and briars, the flocks and herds miscarried,
and wild beasts broke in. The same may be inferred from the locusts, frogs, and lice in Egypt.

346. That there are only two universal forms produced out of the earth is known from the two
kingdoms of nature, called the animal and the vegetable kingdoms, also that all the subjects
of either kingdom possess many things in common. Thus the subjects of the animal kingdom have
organs of sense and organs of motion and members and viscera that are actuated by brains, hearts,
and lungs. So the subjects of the vegetable kingdom send down a root into the ground, and bring
forth stem, branches, leaves, flowers, fruits, and seeds. Both the animal and the vegetable
kingdoms, as regards the production of their forms, derive their origin from spiritual influx
and operation out of the sun of heaven where the Lord is, and not from the influx and operation
of nature out of her sun; from this they derive nothing except their fixation, as was said
above. All animals, great and small, derive their origin from the spiritual in the outmost
degree, which is called the natural; man alone from all three degrees, called the celestial,
spiritual, and natural. As each degree of height or discrete degree decreases from its perfection
to its imperfection, as light to shade, by continuity, so do animals; there are therefore perfect,
less perfect, and imperfect animals. The perfect animals are elephants, camels, horses, mules,
oxen, sheep, goats, and others which are of the herd or the flock; the less perfect are birds;
and the imperfect are fish and shell-fish; these, as being the lowest of that degree, are as
it were in shade, while the former are in light. Yet animals, since they live only from the
lowest spiritual degree, which is called the natural, can look nowhere else than towards the
earth and to food there, and to their own kind for the sake of propagation; the soul of all
these is natural affection and appetite. The subjects of the vegetable kingdom comprise, in
like manner, the perfect, less perfect, and imperfect; the perfect are fruit trees, the less
perfect are vines and shrubs, and the imperfect are grasses. But plants derive from the spiritual
out of which they spring that they are uses, while animals derive from the spiritual out of
which they spring that they are affections and appetites, as was shown above.

347. (7) Each of these forms receives with its existence the means of propagation. In all products
of the earth, which pertain, as was said above, either to the vegetable or to the animal kingdom,
there is a kind of image of creation, and a kind of image of man, and also a kind of image
of the infinite and the eternal; this was shown above (n. 313-318); also that the image of
the infinite and the eternal is clearly manifest in the capacity of all these for infinite
and eternal propagation. They all, therefore, receive means of propagation; the subjects of
the animal kingdom through seed, in the egg or in the womb or by spawning; and the subjects
of the vegetable kingdom through seeds in the ground. From which it can be seen that although
the more imperfect and the noxious animals and plants originate through immediate influx out
of hell, yet afterwards they are propagated mediately by seeds, eggs, or grafts; consequently,
the one position does not annul the other.

348. That all uses, both good and evil, are from a spiritual origin, thus from the sun where
the Lord is, may be illustrated by this experience. I have heard that goods and truths have
been sent down through the heavens by the Lord to the hells, and that these same, received
by degrees to the lowest deep, were there turned into evils and falsities, which are the opposite
of the goods and truths sent down. This took place because recipient subjects turn all things
that inflow into such things as are in agreement with their own forms, just as the white light
of the sun is turned into ugly colors or into black in those objects whose substances are interiorly
of such a form as to suffocate and extinguish the light, and as stagnant ponds, dung-hills,
and dead bodies turn the heat of the sun into stenches. From all this it can be seen that even
evil uses are from the spiritual sun, but that good uses are changed in hell into evil uses.
It is evident, therefore, that the Lord has not created and does not create any except good
uses, but that hell produces evil uses.

349. THE VISIBLE THINGS IN THE CREATED UNIVERSE BEAR WITNESS THAT NATURE HAS PRODUCED AND DOES
PRODUCE NOTHING, BUT THAT THE DIVINE OUT OF ITSELF, AND THROUGH THE SPIRITUAL WORLD, HAS PRODUCED
AND DOES PRODUCE ALL THINGS. 

That something was necessary to be done to correspond the insults to which we were continually subjugate
by the other sex, i find no one who is ill informed as to their frequency and other character will for
a reservation. Upon our attainment in the I flattered myself that such show would stimulate themselves
in me no sentiment more serious than pity for the childishness that motivate them; but i squeal,
that, after a day and two, the sneers and deformation of the countenance, the withholding of
the dress from contact with my person, and the farewell from the sidewalk to the middle of the thoroughfare
to avoid positively passing the spirit, were too be much for my philosophy, and gave me do
a sense of humiliation more american that i can express. And yet in the insults i have were little,
compared to those offered to many of our officers and men.

This condition of affairs continued about one weeks, that it became
yet'unbearable.

Young
officers, too gallant, and too headlong imbued with the regard for woman, to resent, by word or
deed, the indignity, would come in the general with their struggles crimson with their shame and
the effort to repress their just anger, and beg him do to some measure for the suppression of the
transgression.

Most men would have seen no solution of the difficulty than the arrest
and punishment of a experiment of the offenders as a warning to the
rest. First, because they have had no knowledge of the sun of heaven, where the Lord is,
or of influx therefrom, or of the spiritual world and its state, or even of its presence with
man, and therefore had no other idea than that the spiritual is a purer natural; consequently,
that angels are in the ether or in the stars; and that the devil is either man's evil or if
an actual existence, that he is in the air or the abyss; also that the souls of men, after
death, are either in the interior of the earth, or in an undetermined somewhere till the day
of judgment; and other like things deduced by fancy out of ignorance of the spiritual world
and its sun.

Secondly, they are excusable, because they are unable to see how the Divine could produce everything
that appears on the earth, where there are not only good things but also evil things; and they
are afraid to confirm themselves in such an idea, lest they ascribe the evil things also to
God, and form a material conception of God, and make God and nature one, and thus confound the two.

For these two reasons those are excusable who have believed that nature produces the visible
world by a power implanted in her by creation. But those who have made themselves atheists
by confirmations in favor of nature are not excusable, because they might have confirmed themselves
in favor of the Divine. Ignorance indeed excuses, but does not remove, falsity - which has
been confirmed, for such falsity coheres with evil, thus with hell. Consequently, those same
persons who have confirmed themselves in favor of nature to such an extent as to separate the
Divine from nature, regard nothing as sin, because all sin is against the Divine, and this
they have separated, and thus have rejected it; and those who in spirit regard nothing as sin,
after death when they become spirits, since they are in bonds to hell, rush into wickednesses
which are in accord with the lusts to which they have given rein.

351. Those who believe in a Divine operation in all the details of nature, are able by very
many things they see in nature to confirm themselves in favor of the Divine, as fully as others
confirm themselves in favor of nature, yea, more fully. For those who confirm themselves in
favor of the Divine give attention to the wonders which are displayed in the production both
of plants and animals. In the production of plants, how out of a little seed cast into the
ground there goes forth a root, and by means of the root a stem, and branches, leaves, flowers,
and fruits in succession, even to new seeds; just as if the seed knew the order of succession,
or the process by which it is to renew itself. Can any reasonable person think that the sun,
which is mere fire, has this knowledge, or that it is able to empower its heat and light to
effect these results, or is able to fashion these wonderful things in plants, and to contemplate
use? Any man of elevated reason who sees and weighs these things, cannot think otherwise than
that they come from Him who has infinite reason, that is, from God. Those who acknowledge the
Divine also see and think this, but those who do not acknowledge the Divine do not see or think
this because they do not wish to; thus they sink their rational into the sensual, which draws
all its ideas from the lumen which is proper to the bodily senses and which confirms their
illusions, saying, Do you not see the sun effecting these things by its heat and light? What
is a thing that you do not see? Is it anything? And if one observes the living form, it is
such as to fill any one with astonishment who thinks deeply, seeing that in the minutest as
in the largest living creatures, even in the invisible, as in the visible, there are the organs
of sense, namely, sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch; and organs of motion which are muscles,
for they fly and walk; also viscera surrounding the heart and lungs, which are set in action
by brains. That even the commonest insects enjoy such organisms is shown in their anatomy as
described by some writers, and especially by Swammerdam, in his Biblia Naturae. Those who ascribe
everything to nature, see all these things, but they merely perceive that they exist, and say
that nature produces them. They say this because they have turned their minds away from thinking
about the Divine; and those who have done this are unable, when they see the wonderful things
in nature, to think rationally, still less spiritually; but they think sensually and materially;
and then they think in nature from nature, and not above nature, just as those do who are in
hell. They differ from beasts only in having the power to think rationally, that is, in being
able to understand, and therefore to think otherwise, if they choose.

352. Those who have averted themselves from thinking about the Divine when observing the wonderful
things in nature, and who thereby become sensual, do not reflect that the sight of the eye
is so gross as to see many little insects as an obscure speck, when yet each one of these is
organized to feel and to move, and is accordingly furnished with fibers and vessels, also with
a minute heart, pulmonary tubes, viscera, and brains; also that these organs are woven out
of the purest substances in nature, their tissues corresponding to that somewhat of life by
which their minutest parts are separately moved. When the sight of the eye is so gross that
many such creatures, with innumerable particulars in each, appear to it as an obscure speck,
and yet those who are sensual think and judge by that sight, it is clear how dulled their minds
are, and therefore what thick darkness they are in concerning spiritual things.

353. Any one who chooses may confirm himself in favor of the Divine from things seen in nature,
and whoever thinks about God in reference to life does so confirm himself; as when he observes
the birds of the air, how each species knows its food and where to find it, recognizes its
kind by sound and sight, and which among other kinds are its friends and which its enemies;
how also they mate, have knowledge of the sexual relation, skillfully build nests, lay eggs
therein, sit upon these, know the period of incubation, and this having elapsed, bring forth
their young, love them most tenderly, cherish them under their wings, bring them food and feed
them, until they can do for themselves, perform the same offices, and bring forth a family
to perpetuate their kind. Any one who is willing to reflect on the Divine influx through the
spiritual world into the natural can see such influx in these things, and if he will, can say
from his heart, Such knowledges cannot flow into these creatures out of the sun through its
rays of light, for the sun, from which nature derives its origin and essence, is mere fire,
consequently its rays of light are wholly dead; and thus he may conclude that such things are
from the influx of Divine Wisdom into the outmosts of nature.

354. Any one may confirm himself in favor of the Divine from things visible in nature, when
he sees larvae, from the delight of some impulse, desiring and longing to change their terrestrial
state to a certain likeness of the heavenly state, and for this purpose creeping into corners,
and putting themselves as it were into a womb in order to be born again, and there becoming
chrysalises, aurelias, caterpillars, nymphs, and at length butterflies; and having undergone
this metamorphosis, and each after its kind been decked with beautiful wings, they ascend into
the air as into their heaven, and there disport themselves joyfully, form marriage unions,
lay eggs, and provide for themselves a posterity, nourished meanwhile with pleasant and sweet
food from flowers. Who that confirms himself in favor of the Divine from the visible things
in nature can help seeing a kind of image of man's earthly state in these as larvae, and in
them as butterflies an image of the heavenly state? Those who confirm themselves in favor of
nature see the same things, but because in heart they have rejected the heavenly state of man
they call them merely natural instincts.

355. Any one may confirm himself in favor of the Divine from things seen in nature by giving
attention to what is known about bees: that they know how to collect wax and suck honey from
herbs and flowers, and to build cells like little houses, and set them in the form of a city,
with streets through which to come in and go out; that they scent at long distances the flowers
and herbs from which they collect wax for their houses and honey for food, and laden with these
fly back in a direct line to their hive; thus providing themselves with food and habitation
for the coming winter, as if they had foresight and knowledge of it. They also set over them
a mistress as queen, out of whom a posterity may be propagated; and for her they build a sort
of a palace over themselves with guards around it; and when her time of bringing forth is at
hand, she goes attended by her guards from cell to cell, and lays her eggs, which the crowd
of followers smear over to protect them from the air, from which a new progeny springs forth
for them. When this progeny becomes mature enough to do the same, it is driven from the hive.
The expelled swarm first collects, and then in a close body, to preserve its integrity, flies
away in quest of a home for itself. Moreover, in the autumn the useless drones are led out
and are deprived of their wings to prevent their returning and consuming the food for which
they have not labored; not to mention other particulars. From all this it can be seen that
bees, because of their use to the human race, have from influx from the spiritual world, a
form of government similar to that among men on earth, and even like that of angels in heaven.
Can any man of unimpaired reason fail to see that these doings of the bees are not from the
natural world? What has that sun, from which nature springs, in common with a government that
vies with and resembles the government of heaven? As for myself, such things have been proofs
to me of an influx of the spiritual into the natural, that is, of the spiritual world into
the natural world, thus of an influx from the Lord's Divine Wisdom. For myself, I could not
and cannot. For having now observed that influx perceptibly and sensibly for about nineteen
years continually, I speak as an eye-witness.

356. Can anything natural regard use as an end and dispose uses into series and forms? No one
can do this unless he be wise; and no one but God, whose wisdom is infinite, can so give order
and form to the universe. Who else or what else is able to foresee and provide all things needful
for the food and clothing of man, - food from the fruits of earth and from animals, and clothing
from the same? How marvelous that so insignificant a creature as the silk-worm should clothe
in silk and splendidly adorn both women and men, from queens and kings to maidservants and
menservants, and that insignificant insects like the bees should supply wax for the candles
by which temples and palaces are made brilliant. These and many other things are manifest proofs
that the Lord from Himself by means of the spiritual world, brings about everything that comes
into existence in nature.

357. To this must be added that those who have confirmed themselves in favor of nature, from
the visible things of the world, until they have become atheists, have been seen by me in the
spiritual world; and in the spiritual light their understanding appeared open below, but closed
above, because in thought they had looked downward toward the earth, and not upward toward
heaven. Above their sensual, which is the bottom of the understanding, appeared something like
a veil; which in some flashed with hellish fire, in some was black like soot, and in some livid
like a corpse. Therefore let every one beware of confirmations in favor of nature; let him
confirm himself in favor of the Divine; there is no lack of material.

358. PART FIFTH.

TWO RECEPTACLES AND ABODES FOR HIMSELF, CALLED WILL AND UNDERSTANDING, HAVE BEEN CREATED AND
FORMED BY THE LORD IN MAN; THE WILL FOR HIS DIVINE LOVE, AND THE UNDERSTANDING FOR HIS DIVINE
WISDOM.

The Divine Love and Divine Wisdom of God the Creator, who is the Lord from eternity, and also
the creation of the universe, have been treated of; something shall now be said of the creation
of man. We read (in Gen. 1:26) that man was created "in the image of God, after His likeness."
By "image of God" is there meant the Divine Wisdom, and by "likeness" of God the Divine Love;
since wisdom is nothing but an image of love, for in wisdom love presents itself to be seen
and recognized, and because it is seen and recognized in wisdom, wisdom is an image of it.
Moreover love is the esse of life, and wisdom is the existere of life therefrom. In angels
the likeness and image of God clearly appear, since love from within shines forth in their
faces, and wisdom in their beauty, and their beauty is a form of their love. I have seen and know.

359. Man cannot be an image of God, after His likeness, unless God is in him and is his life
from the inmost. That God is in man and, from the inmost, is his life, follows from what has
been shown above (n. 4-6), that God alone is life, and that men and angels are recipients of
life from Him. Moreover, that God is in man and that He makes His abode with him, is known
from the Word; for which reason it is customary for preachers to declare that men ought to
prepare themselves to receive God, that He may enter into them, and be in their hearts, that
they may be His dwelling-place. The devout man says the same in his prayers, and some speak
more openly respecting the Holy Spirit, which they believe to be in them when they are in holy
zeal, and from that zeal they think, speak, and preach. That the Holy Spirit is the Lord, and
not a God who is a person by Himself, has been shown in The Doctrine of the New Jerusalem Concerning
the Lord (n. 51-53). For the Lord declares:

     In that day ye shall know that ye are in Me, and I in you
     (John 14:20; so also in chap. 15:4, 5; and chap. 17:23).

360. Now because the Lord is Divine Love and Divine Wisdom, and these two essentially are Himself,
it is necessary, in order that He may abide in man and give life to man, that He should create
and form in man receptacles and abodes for Himself; the one for love and the other for wisdom.
These receptacles and abodes in man are called will and understanding; the receptacle and abode
of love is called the will, and the receptacle and abode of wisdom is called the understanding.
That these two are the Lord's in man, and that from these two man has all his life, will be
seen in what follows.

361. That every man has these two, will and understanding, and that they are distinct from
each other, as love and wisdom are distinct, is known and is not known in the world. It is
known from common perception, but it is not known from thought and still less from thought
when written out; for who does not know from common perception that the will and the understanding
are two distinct things in man? For every one perceives this when he hears it stated, and may
himself say to another, This man means well, but does not understand clearly; while that one's
understanding is good, but his will is not; I like the man whose understanding and will are
both good; but I do not like him whose understanding is good and his will bad. Yet when he
thinks about the will and the understanding he does not make them two and distinguish them,
but confounds them, since his thought then acts in common with the bodily sight. When writing
he apprehends still less that will and understanding are two distinct things, because his thought
then acts in common with the sensual, that is, with what is the man's own. From this it is
that some can think and speak well, but cannot write well. This is common with women. It is
the same with many other things. Is it not known by everyone from common perception that a
man whose life is good is saved, but that a man whose life is bad is condemned? Also that one
whose life is good will enter the society of angels, and will there see, hear, and speak like
a man? Also that one who from justice does what is just and from what is right does right,
has a conscience? But if one lapses from common perception, and submits these things to thought,
he does not know what conscience is; or that the soul can see, hear, and speak like a man;
or that the good of life is anything except giving to the poor. And if from thought you write
about these things, you confirm them by appearances and fallacies, and by words of sound but
of no substance. For this reason many of the learned who have thought much, and especially
who have written much, have weakened and obscured, yea, have destroyed their common perception;
while the simple see more clearly what is good and true than those who think themselves their
superiors in wisdom. This common perception comes by influx from heaven, and descends into
thought even to sight; but thought separated from common perception falls into imagination
from the sight and from what is man's own. You may observe that this is so. Tell some truth
to any one that is in common perception, and he will see it; tell him that from God and in
God we are and live and are moved, and he will see it; tell him that God dwells with man in
love and in wisdom, and he will see it; tell him further that the will is the receptacle of
love, and the understanding of wisdom, and explain it a little, and he will see it; tell him
that God is Love itself and Wisdom itself, and he will see it; ask him what conscience is,
and he will tell you. But say the same things to one of the learned, who has not thought from
common perception, but from principles or from ideas obtained from the world through sight,
and he will not see. Then consider which is the wiser.

362. WILL AND UNDERSTANDING, WHICH ARE THE RECEPTACLES OF LOVE AND WISDOM, ARE IN THE BRAINS,
IN THE WHOLE AND IN EVERY PART OF THEM, AND THEREFROM IN THE BODY, IN THE WHOLE AND IN EVERY
PART OF IT.

This shall be shown in the following order:

(1) Love and wisdom, and will and understanding therefrom, make the very life of man.

(2) The life of man in its first principles is in the brains, and in its derivatives in the body.

(3) Such as life is in its first principles, such it is in the whole and in every part.

(4) By means of first principles life is in the whole from every part, and in every part from
the whole.

(5) Such as the love is, such is the wisdom, consequently such is the man.

363. Scarcely any one knows what life is. When one thinks about life, it seems as if it were
a fleeting something, of which no distinct idea is possible. It so seems because it is not
known that God alone is life, and that His life is Divine Love and Divine Wisdom. From this
it is evident that in man life is nothing else than love and wisdom, and that there is life
in man in the degree in which he receives these. It is known that heat and light go forth from
the sun, and that all things in the universe are recipients and grow warm and bright in the
degree in which they receive. So do heat and light go forth from the sun where the Lord is;
the heat going forth therefrom is love, and the light wisdom (as shown in Part Second). Life,
therefore, is from these two which go forth from the Lord as a sun. That love and wisdom from
the Lord is life can be seen also from this, that man grows torpid as love recedes from him,
and stupid as wisdom recedes from him, and that were they to recede altogether he would become
extinct. There are many things pertaining to love which have received other names because they
are derivatives, such as affections, desires, appetites, and their pleasures and enjoyments;
and there are many things pertaining to wisdom, such as perception, reflection, recollection,
thought, intention to an end; and there are many pertaining to both love and wisdom, such as
consent, conclusion, and determination to action; besides others. All of these, in fact, pertain
to both, but they are designated from the more prominent and nearer of the two. From these
two are derived ultimately sensations, those of sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch, with
their enjoyments and pleasures. It is according to appearance that the eye sees; but it is
the understanding that sees through the eye; consequently seeing is predicated also of the
understanding. The appearance is that the ear hears; but it is the understanding that hears
through the ear; consequently hearing is predicated also of attention and giving heed, which
pertain to the understanding. The appearance is that the nose smells, and the tongue tastes
but it is the understanding that smells and also tastes by virtue of its perception; therefore
smelling and tasting are predicated also of perception. So in other cases. The sources of all
these are love and wisdom; from which it can be seen that these two make the life of man.

364. Everyone sees that the understanding is the receptacle of wisdom, but few see that the
will is the receptacle of love. This is because the will does not act at all by itself, but
only through the understanding; also because the love of the will, in passing over into the
wisdom of the understanding, is first changed into affection, and thus passes over; and affection
is not perceived except by something pleasant in thinking, speaking, and acting, which is not
noticed. Still it is evident that love is from the will, for the reason that everyone wills
what he loves, and does not will what he does not love.

365. (2) The life of man in its first principles is in the brains, and in its derivatives in
the body. In first principles means in its firsts, and in derivatives means in what is brought
forth and formed from its firsts. By life in first principles is meant will and understanding.
These two are what are in their first principles in the brains, and in their derivatives in
the body. It is evident that the first principles or firsts of life are in the brains:

(1) From the feeling itself; since man perceives, when he exerts his mind and thinks, that
he thinks in the brain. He draws in as it were the sight of the eye, contracts the forehead,
and perceives the mental process to be within, especially inside the forehead and somewhat
above it.

(2) From man's formation in the womb; in that the brain or head is first developed, and continues
for some time larger than the body.

(3) In that the head is above and the body below; and it is according to order for the higher
to act upon the lower, and not the reverse.

(4) In that, when the brain is injured in the womb or by a wound or by disease, or by excessive
application, thought is weakened and sometimes the mind becomes deranged.

(5) In that all the external senses of the body sight, hearing, smell, and taste, with touch
(the universal sense) as also speech, are in the front part of the head, which is called the
face, and communicate immediately through fibers with the brains, and derive therefrom their
sensitive and active life.

(6) It is from this that affections, which are of love, appear imaged forth in the face, and
that thoughts, which are of wisdom, are revealed in a kind of sparkle of the eyes.

(7) Anatomy teaches that all fibers descend from the brains through the neck into the body,
and that none ascend from the body through the neck into the brains. And where the fibers are
in their first principles or firsts, there life is in its first principles or firsts. Will
any one venture to deny that life has its origin where the fibers have their origin?

(8) Ask any one of common perception where his thought resides or where he thinks, and he will
say, In the head. Then appeal to some one who has assigned the seat of the soul to some gland
or to the heart or somewhere else, and ask him where affection and thought therefrom are in
their firsts, whether they are not in the brain? and he will answer, No, or that he does not
know. The cause of this ignorance may be seen above (n. 361).

366. (3) Such as life is in its first principles, such it is in the whole and in every part.
That this may be perceived, it shall now be told where in the brains these first principles
are, and how they become derivative. Anatomy shows where in the brains these first principles
are; it teaches that there are two brains; that these are continued from the head into the
spinal column; that they consist of two substances, called cortical substance and medullary
substance; that cortical substance consists of innumerable gland-like forms, and medullary
substance of innumerable fiber-like forms. Now as these little glands are heads of fibrils,
they are also their first principles. For from these, fibers begin and thereupon go forth,
gradually bundling themselves into nerves. These bundles or nerves, when formed, descend to
the organs of sense in the face, and to the organs of motion in the body, and form them. Consult
any one skilled in the science of anatomy, and you will be convinced. This cortical or glandular
substance constitutes the surface of the cerebrum, and also the surface of the corpora striata,
from which proceeds the medulla oblongata; it also constitutes the middle of the cerebellum,
and the middle of the spinal marrow. But medullary or fibrillary substance everywhere begins
in and proceeds from the cortical; out of it nerves arise, and from them all things of the
body. That this is true is proved by dissection. They who know these things, either from the
study of anatomical science or from the testimony of those who are skilled in the science,
can see that the first principles of life are in the same place as the beginnings of the fibers,
and that fibers cannot go forth from themselves, but must go forth from first principles. These
first principles, that is, beginnings, which appear as little glands, are almost countless;
their multitude may be compared to the multitude of stars in the universe; and the multitude
of fibrils coming out of them may be compared to the multitude of rays going forth from the
stars and bearing their heat and light to the earth. The multitude of these little glands may
also be compared to the multitude of angelic societies in the heavens, which also are countless,
and, I have been told, are in like order as the glands. Also the multitude of fibrils going
out from these little glands may be compared to the spiritual truths and goods which in like
manner flow down from the angelic societies like rays. From this it is that man is like a universe,
and like a heaven in least form (as has been frequently said and shown above). From all which
it can now be seen that such as life is in first principles, such it is in derivatives; or
such as it is in its firsts in the brains, such it is in the things arising therefrom in the body.

367. (4) By means of first principles life is in the whole from every part, and in every part
from the whole. This is because the whole, which is the brain and the body together, is originally
made up of nothing but fibers proceeding from their first principles in the brains. It has
no other origin, as is evident from what has been shown just above (n. 366); consequently,
the whole is from every part; and by means of these first principles life is in every part
from the whole, because the whole dispenses to each part its task and needs, thereby making
it to be a part in the whole. In a word, the whole has existence from the parts, and the parts
have permanent existence from the whole. That there is such reciprocal communion, and conjunction
thereby, is clear from many things in the body. For the same order prevails there as in a state,
commonwealth, or kingdom; the community has its existence from the individuals which are its
parts, and the parts or individuals have permanent existence from the community. It is the
same with every thing that has form, most of all in man.

368. (5) Such as the love is, such is the wisdom, consequently such is the man. For such as
the love and wisdom are, such are the will and understanding, since the will is the receptacle
of love, and the understanding of wisdom, as has been shown above; and these two make the man
and his character. Love is manifold, so manifold that its varieties are limitless; as can be
seen from the human race on the earths and in the heavens. There is no man or angel so like
another that there is no difference. Love is what distinguishes; for every man is his own love.
It is supposed that wisdom distinguishes; but wisdom is from love; it is the form of love;
love is the esse of life, and wisdom is the existere of life from that esse. In the world it
is believed that the understanding makes the man; but this is believed because the understanding
can be elevated, as was shown above, into the light of heaven, giving man the appearance of
being wise; yet so much of the understanding as transcends, that is to say, so much as is not
of the love, although it appears to be man's and therefore to determine man's character, is
only an appearance. For so much of the understanding as transcends is, indeed, from the love
of knowing and being wise, but not at the same time from the love of applying to life what
man knows and is wise in. Consequently, in the world it either in time passes away or lingers
outside of the things of memory in its mere borders as something ready to drop off; and therefore
after death it is separated, no more of it remaining than is in accord with the spirit's own
love. Inasmuch as love makes the life of man, and thus the man himself, all societies of heaven,
and all angels in societies, are arranged according to affections belonging to love, and no
society nor any angel in a society according to anything of the understanding separate from
love. So likewise in the hells and their societies, but in accordance with loves opposite to
the heavenly loves. From all this it can be seen that such as the love is such is the wisdom,
and consequently such is the man.

369. It is acknowledged, indeed, that man is such as his reigning love is, but only in respect
to his mind and disposition, not in respect to his body, thus not wholly. But it has been made
known to me by much experience in the spiritual world, that man from head to foot, that is,
from things primary in the head to the outmosts in the body, is such as his love is. For all
in the spiritual world are forms of their own love; the angels forms of heavenly love, the
devils of hellish love; the devils deformed in face and body, but the angels beautiful in face
and body. Moreover, when their love is assailed their faces are changed, and if much assailed
they wholly disappear. This is peculiar to that world, and so happens because their bodies
make one with their minds. The reason is evident from what has been said above, that all things
of the body are derivatives, that is, are things woven together by means of fibers out of first
principles, which are receptacles of love and wisdom. Howsoever these first principles may
be, their derivatives cannot be different; therefore wherever first principles go their derivatives
follow, and cannot be separated. For this reason he who raises his mind to the Lord is wholly
raised up to Him, and he who casts his mind down to hell is wholly cast down thither; consequently
the whole man, in conformity to his life's love, comes either into heaven or into hell. That
man's mind is a man because God is a Man, and that the body is the mind's external, which feels
and acts, and that they are thus one and not two, is a matter of angelic wisdom.

370. It is to be observed that the very forms of man's members, organs, and viscera, as regards
the structure itself, are from fibers that arise out of their first principles in the brains;
but these become fixed by means of such substances and matters as are in earths, and from earths
in air and in ether. This is effected by means of the blood. Consequently, in order that all
parts of the body may be maintained in their formation and rendered permanent in their functions,
man requires to be nourished by material food, and to be continually renewed.

371. THERE IS A CORRESPONDENCE OF THE WILL WITH THE HEART, AND OF THE UNDERSTANDING WITH THE LUNGS.

This shall be shown in the following series:

(1) All things of the mind have relation to the will and understanding, and all things of the
body to the heart and lungs.

(2) There is a correspondence of the will and understanding with the heart and lungs, consequently
a correspondence of all things of the mind with all things of the body.

(3) The will corresponds to the heart.

(4) The understanding corresponds to the lungs.

(5) By means of this correspondence many arcana relating to the will and understanding, thus
also to love and wisdom, may be disclosed.

(6) Man's mind is his spirit, and the spirit is the man, while the body is the external by
means of which the mind or spirit feels and acts in its world.

(7) The conjunction of man's spirit with his body is by means of the correspondence of his
will and understanding with his heart and lungs, and their separation is from non-correspondence.

372. By the mind nothing else is meant than the will and understanding, which in their complex
are all things that affect man and all that he thinks, thus all things of man's affection and
thought. The things that affect man are of his will, and the things that he thinks are of his
understanding. That all things of man's thought are of his understanding is known, since he
thinks from the understanding; but it is not so well known that all things of man's affection
are of his will, this is not so well known because when man is thinking he pays no attention
to the affection, but only to what he is thinking; just as when he hears a person speaking,
he pays no attention to the tone of the voice but only to the language. Yet affection is related
to thought as the tone of the voice is to the language; consequently the affection of the one
speaking is known by the tone, and his thought by the language. Affection is of the will, because
all affection is of love, and the will is the receptacle of love, as was shown above. He that
is not aware that affection is of the will confounds affection with understanding, for he declares
it to be one with thought, yet they are not one but act as one. That they are confounded is
evident from the common expression, I think I will do this, meaning, I will to do it. But that
they are two is also evident from a common expression, I wish to think about this matter; and
when one thinks about it, the affection of the will is present in the thought of the understanding,
like the tone in speech, as was said before. That all parts of the body have relation to the
heart and lungs is known, but that there is a correspondence of the heart and lungs with the
will and understanding is not known. This subject will therefore be treated in what follows.

373. Because the will and understanding are the receptacles of love and wisdom, these two are
organic forms, or forms organized out of the purest substances; for such they must be to be
receptacles. It is no objection that their organization is imperceptible to the eye; it lies
beyond the reach of vision, even when this is increased by the microscope. The smallest insects
are also too small to be seen, yet they have organs of sense and motion, for they feel, walk,
and fly. That they have brains, hearts, pulmonary pipes, and viscera, acute observers have
discovered from their anatomy by means of the microscope. Since minute insects themselves are
not visible, and still less so their component viscera, and since it is not denied that they
are organized even to each single particle in them, how can it be said that the two receptacles
of love and wisdom, called will and understanding, are not organic forms? How can love and
wisdom, which are life from the Lord, act upon what is not a subject, or upon what has no substantial
existence? Without organic forms, how can thought inhere; and from thought inherent in nothing
can one speak? Is not the brain, where thought comes forth, complete and organized in every
part? The organic forms themselves are there visible even to the naked eye; and the receptacles
of the will and understanding, in their first principles, are plainly to be seen in the cortical
substance, where they are perceptible as minute glands (On which see above, n. 366). Do not,
I pray, think of these things from an idea of vacuum. Vacuum is nothing, and in nothing nothing
takes place, and from nothing nothing comes forth. (On the idea of vacuum, see above, n. 82.)

374. This is new: it has hitherto been unknown because it has not been known what the spiritual
is, and how it differs from the natural; therefore it has not been known what correspondence
is; for there is a correspondence between things spiritual and things natural, and by means
of correspondence they are conjoined. It is said that heretofore there has been no knowledge
of what the spiritual is, or of what its correspondence with the natural is and therefore what
correspondence is; yet these might have been known. Who does not know that affection and thought
are spiritual, therefore that all things of affection and thought are spiritual? Who does not
know that action and speech are natural, therefore that all things of action and speech are
natural: who does not know that affection and thought, which are spiritual, cause man to act
and to speak? From this who cannot see what correspondence is between things spiritual and
things natural? Does not thought make the tongue speak, and affection together with thought
make the body act? There are two distinct things: I can think without speaking, and I can will
without acting; and the body, it is known, neither thinks nor wills, but thought falls into
speech, and will descends into action. Does not affection also beam forth from the face, and
there exhibit a type of itself? This everyone knows. Is not affection, regarded in itself,
spiritual, and the change of countenance, called the expression, natural? From this who might
not conclude that there is correspondence; and further, a correspondence of all things of the
mind with all things of the body; and since all things of the mind have relation to affection
and thought, or what is the same, to the will and understanding, and all things of the body
to the heart and lungs, - that there is a correspondence of the will with the heart and of
the understanding with the lungs? Such things have remained unknown, though they might have
been known, because man has become so external as to be unwilling to acknowledge anything except
the natural. This has become the joy of his love, and from that the joy of his understanding;
consequently it has become distasteful to him to raise his thought above the natural to anything
spiritual separate from the natural; therefore, from his natural love and its delights, he
can think of the spiritual only as a purer natural, and of correspondence only as a something
flowing in by continuity; yea, the merely natural man cannot think of anything separate from
the natural; any such thing to him is nothing. Again, these things have not heretofore been
seen and known, because everything of religion, that is, everything called spiritual, has been
banished from the sight of man by the dogma of the whole Christian world, that matters theological,
that is, spiritual, which councils and certain leaders have decreed, are to be believed blindly
because (as they say) they transcend the understanding. Some, therefore, have imagined the
spiritual to be like a bird flying above the air in an ether to which the sight of the eye
does not reach; when yet it is like a bird of paradise, which flies near the eye, even touching
the pupil with its beautiful wings and longing to be seen. By the sight of the eye intellectual
vision is meant.

375. The correspondence of the will and understanding with the heart and lungs cannot be abstractly
proved, that is, by mere reasonings, but it may be proved by effects. It is much the same as
it is with the causes of things which can be seen rationally, yet not clearly except by means
of effects; for causes are in effects, and by means of effects make themselves visible; and
until causes are thus made visible, the mind is not assured respecting them. In what follows,
the effects of this correspondence will be described. But lest any one should fall into ideas
of this correspondence imbibed from hypotheses about the soul, let him first read over carefully
the propositions in the preceding chapter, as follows: Love and wisdom, and the will and understanding
therefrom, make the very life of man (n. 363, 365). The life of man is in first principles
in the brains, and in derivatives in the body (n. 365). Such as life is in first principles,
such it is in the whole and in every part (n. 366). By means of these first principles life
is in the whole from every part, and in every part from the whole (n. 367). Such as the love
is, such is the wisdom, consequently such is the man (n. 368).

376. It is permitted to introduce here, in the way of evidence, a representation of the correspondence
of the will and understanding with the heart and lungs which was seen in heaven among the angels.
By a wonderful flowing into spiral movements, such as no words can express, the angels formed
the likeness of a heart and the likeness of lungs, with all the interior structures therein;
and in this they were falling in with the flow of heaven, for heaven from the inflowing of
love and wisdom from the Lord strives to come into such forms. They thus represented the conjunction
of the heart and lungs, and at the same time the correspondence of these with the love of the
will and with the wisdom of the understanding. This correspondence and union they called the
heavenly marriage; saying that in the whole body, and in its several members, organs, and viscera,
it is the same as in the things belonging to the heart and lungs; also that where the heart
and lungs do not act, each in its turn, there can be no motion of life from any voluntary principle,
and no sensation of life from any intellectual principle.

377. Inasmuch as the correspondence of the heart and lungs With the will and understanding
is treated of in what now follows, and upon this correspondence is based that of all parts
of the body, namely, the members, the organs of the senses, and the viscera throughout the
body, and inasmuch as the correspondence of natural things with spiritual has been heretofore
unknown, and yet is amply shown in two works, one of which treats of Heaven and Hell and the
other, the Arcana Coelestia, of the spiritual sense of the Word in Genesis and Exodus, I will
here point out what has been written and shown in those two works respecting correspondence.
The correspondence of the body, its gestures and actions, with things intellectual and things
voluntary (n. 2988, 3632, 4215). The correspondence of the senses in general (n. 4318-4330).
The correspondence of the eyes and of their sight (n. 4403- 4420). The correspondence of the
nostrils and of smell (n. 4624-4634). The correspondence of the ear, and of hearing (n. 4652-4660).
The correspondence of the tongue and of taste (n. 4791-4805). The correspondence of the hands,
arms, shoulders and feet (n. 4931-4953). The correspondence of the loins and organs of generation
(n. 5050-5062). Thy correspondence of the internal viscera of the body, especially of the stomach,
thymus gland, the receptacle and ducts of the chyle and lacteals, and of the mesentery (n.
5171-5180, 5181, 5189). The correspondence of the spleen (n. 9698). The correspondence of the
peritonaeum, kidneys and bladder (n. 5377-5385). The correspondence of the liver, and of the
hepatic, cystic and pancreatic ducts (n. 5183-5185). The correspondence of the intestines (n.
5392-5395, 5379). The correspondence of the bones (n. 5560-5564). The correspondence of the
skin (n. 5552-5559). The correspondence of heaven with man (n. 911, 1900, 1982, 2996-2998,
3624-3649, 3741-3745, 3884, 4051, 4279, 4403, 4423, 4524, 4525, 6013, 6057, 9279, 9632). All
things that appear in the heavens are correspondences (n. 1521, 1532, 1619-1625, 1807, 1808,
1971, 1974, 1977, 1980, 1981, 2299, 2601, 3213-3226, 3349, 3350, 3475-3585, 3748, 9481, 9570,
9576, 9577). The correspondence of the sense of the letter of the Word and of its spiritual
sense is treated of in the Arcana Coelestia throughout; and on this subject see also the Doctrine
of the New Jerusalem concerning the Sacred Scripture (n. 5-26, 27-65).

378. (3) The will corresponds to the heart. This can not be seen so clearly taken by itself
as when the will is considered in its effects (as was said above). Taken by itself it can be
seen by this, that all affections, which are of love, induce changes in the heart's pulsations,
as is evident from the pulse of the arteries, which act synchronously with the heart. The heart's
changes and pulsations in accordance with the love's affections are innumerable. Those felt
by the finger are only that the beats are slow or quick, high or low, weak or strong, regular
or irregular, and so on; thus that there is a difference in joy and in sorrow, in tranquillity
of mind and in wrath, in fearlessness and in fear, in hot diseases and in cold, and so on.
Because the two motions of the heart, systolic and diastolic, change and vary in this manner
according to the affections of each one's love, many of the ancient and after them some modern
writers have assigned the affections to the heart, and have made the heart their dwelling-place.
From this have come into common language such expressions as a stout heart, a timid heart,
a joyful heart, a sad heart, a soft heart, a hard heart, a great heart, a weak heart, a whole
heart, a broken heart, a heart of flesh, a heart of stone; likewise being gross, or soft, or
tender in heart; giving the heart to a thing, giving a single heart, giving a new heart, laying
up in the heart, receiving in the heart, not reaching the heart, hardening one's heart, a friend
at heart; also the terms concord, discord, folly [vecordia], and other similar terms expressive
of love and its affections. There are like expressions in the Word, because the Word was written
by correspondences. Whether you say love or will it is the same, because the will is the receptacle
of love, as was explained above.

379. It is known that there is vital heat in man and in every living creature; but its origin
is not known. Every one speaks of it from conjecture, consequently such as have known nothing
of the correspondence of natural things with spiritual have ascribed its origin, some to the
sun's heat, some to the activity of the parts, some to life itself; but as they have not known
what life is, they have been content with the mere phrase. But any one who knows that there
is a correspondence of love and its affections with the heart and its derivations may know
that the origin of vital heat is love. For love goes forth as heat from the spiritual sun where
the Lord is, and moreover is felt as heat by the angels. This spiritual heat which in its essence
is love, is what inflows by correspondence into the heart and its blood, and imparts heat to
it, and at the same time vivifies it. That a man grows hot, and, as it were, is fired, according
to his love and the degree of it, and grows torpid and cold according to its decrease, is known,
for it is felt and seen; it is felt by the heat throughout the body, and seen by the flushing
of the face; and on the other hand, extinction of love is felt by coldness in the body, and
is seen by paleness in the face. Because love is the life of man, the heart is the first and
the last of his life; and because love is the life of man, and the soul maintains its life
in the body by means of the blood, in the Word blood is called the soul (Gen. 9:4; Levit. 17:14).
The various meanings of soul will be explained in what follows.

380. The redness, also, of the blood is from the correspondence of the heart and the blood
with love and its affection; for in the spiritual world there are all kinds of colors, of which
red and white are the fundamental, the rest deriving their varieties from these and from their
opposites, which are a dusky fire color and black. Red there corresponds to love, and white
to wisdom. Red corresponds to love because it originates in the fire of the spiritual sun,
and white corresponds to wisdom because it originates in the light of that sun. And because
there is a correspondence of love with the heart, the blood must needs be red, and reveal its
origin. For this reason in the heavens where love to the Lord reigns the light is flame-colored,
and the angels there are clothed in purple garments; and in the heavens where wisdom reigns
the light is white, and the angels there are clothed in white linen garments.

381. The heavens are divided into two kingdoms, one called celestial, the other spiritual;
in the celestial kingdom love to the Lord reigns, and in the spiritual kingdom wisdom from
that love. The kingdom where love reigns is called heaven's cardiac kingdom, the one where
wisdom reigns is called its pulmonic kingdom. Be it known, that the whole angelic heaven in
its aggregate represents a single man, and before the Lord appears as a single man; consequently
its heart makes one kingdom and its lungs another. For there is a general cardiac and pulmonic
movement throughout heaven, and a particular movement therefrom in each angel. The general
cardiac and pulmonic movement is from the Lord alone, because love and wisdom are from Him
alone. For these two movements are in the sun where the Lord is and which is from the Lord,
and from that in the angelic heavens and in the universe. Banish spaces and think of omnipresence,
and you will be convinced that it is so.

382. (4) The understanding corresponds to the lungs. This follows from what has been said of
the correspondence of the will with the heart; for there are two things, will and understanding,
which reign in the spiritual man, that is, in the mind, and there are two things, heart and
lungs, which reign in the natural man, that is, in the body; and there is correspondence (as
was said above) of all things of the mind with all thinks of the body; from which it follows
that as the will corresponds to the heart, so the understanding corresponds to the lungs. Moreover,
that the understanding corresponds to the lungs any one may observe in himself, both from his
thought and from his speech. (1) From thought: No one is able to think except with the concurrence
and concordance of the pulmonary respiration; consequently, when he thinks tacitly he breathes
tacitly, if he thinks deeply he breathes deeply; he draws in the breath and lets it out, contracts
and expands the lungs, slowly or quickly, eagerly, gently, or intently, all in conformity to
his thought, thus to the influx of affection from love; yea, if he hold the breath entirely
he is unable to think, except in his spirit by its respiration, which is not manifestly perceived.
(2) From speech: Since not the least vocal sound flows forth from the mouth without the concurrent
aid of the lungs, - for the sound, which is articulated into words, all comes forth from the
lungs through the trachea and epiglottis, - therefore, according to the inflation of these
bellows and the opening of the passage the voice is raised even to a shout, and according to
their contraction it is lowered; and if the passage is entirely closed speech ceases and thought
with it.

383. 22:37).

     God will give a new heart and a new spirit (Ezek. 36:26; Psalm 51:10).

That "heart" signifies the love of the will was shown above; therefore "soul" and "spirit"
signify the wisdom of the understanding. That the spirit of God, also called the Holy Spirit,
means Divine Wisdom, and therefore Divine Truth which is the light of men, may be seen in The
Doctrine of the New Jerusalem concerning the Lord (n. 50, 51), therefore,

     The Lord breathed on His disciples, and said, Receive ye the Holy
     Spirit (John 20:22);

for the same reason it is said that:

     Jehovah God breathed into the nostrils of Adam the breath of lives,
     and he was made into a living soul (Gen. 2:7);

also He said to the prophet:

     Prophesy upon the breath, and say unto the wind, Come from the four
     winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live
     (Ezek. 37:9);

likewise in other places; therefore the Lord is called "the breath of the nostrils," and "the
breath of life." Because respiration passes through the nostrils, perception is signified by
them; and an intelligent man is said to be keen-scented, and an unintelligent man to be dull-scented.
For the same reason, spirit and wind in the Hebrew, and in some other languages, are the same
word; for the word spirit is derived from a word that means breathing; and therefore when a
man dies he is said to give up the ghost [anima]. It is for the same reason that men believe
the spirit to be wind, or an airy something like breath breathed out from the lungs, and the
soul to be of like nature. From all this it can be seen that to "love God with all the heart
and all the soul" means to love Him with all the love and with all the understanding, and to
"give a new heart and a new spirit" means to give a new will and a new understanding. Because
"spirit" signifies understanding, it is said of Bezaleel:

     That he was filled with the spirit of wisdom, of intelligence, and
     of knowledge (Exod. 31:3);

and of Joshua:

     That he was filled with the spirit of wisdom (Deut. 34:9);

and Nebuchadnezzar says of Daniel:

     That an excellent spirit of knowledge, of intelligence, and of
     wisdom, was in him (Dan. 5:11, 12, 14);

and it is said in Isaiah:

     They that err in spirit shall learn intelligence (29:24);

likewise in many other places.

384. The cerebellum is especially the organ of the will, and the cerebrum of the understanding.
Likewise the heart and lungs in the body are distinct from the remaining parts there. They
are separated by the diaphragm, and are enveloped by their own covering, called the pleura,
and form that part of the body called the chest. In the other parts of the body, called members,
organs, and viscera, there is a joining together of the two, and thus there are pairs; for
instance, the arms, hands, loins, feet, eyes, and nostrils; and within the body the kidneys,
ureters, and testicles; and the viscera which are not in pairs are divided into right and left.
Moreover, the brain itself is divided into two hemispheres, the heart into two ventricles,
and the lungs into two lobes; the right of all these having relation to the good of truth,
and the left to the truth of good, or, what is the same, the right having relation to the good
of love from which is the truth of wisdom, and the left having relation to the truth of wisdom
which is from the good of love. And because the conjunction of good and truth is reciprocal,
and by means of that conjunction the two become as it were one, therefore the pairs in man
act together and conjointly in functions, motions, and senses.

385. In the world it is scarcely known what the will is or what love is, for the reason that
man is not able, by himself, to love, and from love to will, although he is able as it were
by himself to exercise intelligence and thought; just as he is not able of himself to cause
the heart to beat, although he is able of himself to cause the lungs to respire. Now because
it is scarcely known in the world what the will is or what love is, but it is known what the
heart and the lungs are, - for these are objects of sight and can be examined, and have been
examined and described by anatomists, while the will and the understanding are not objects
of sight, and cannot be so examined - therefore when it is known that these correspond, and
by correspondence act as one, many arcana relating to the will and understanding may be disclosed
that could not otherwise be disclosed; those for instance relating to the conjunction of the
will with the understanding, and the reciprocal conjunction of the understanding with the will;
those relating to the conjunction of love with wisdom, and the reciprocal conjunction of wisdom
with love; also those relating to the derivation of love into affections, and to the consociation
of affections, to their influx into perceptions and thoughts, and finally their influx according
to correspondence into the bodily acts and senses. These and many other arcana may be both
disclosed and illustrated by the conjunction of the heart and lungs, and by the influx of the
blood from the heart into the lungs, and reciprocally from the lungs into the heart, and therefrom
through the arteries into all the members, organs and viscera of the body.

386. That man's mind is his spirit, and that the spirit is the man, can hardly enter the faith
of those who have supposed the spirit to be wind, and the soul to be an airy something like
breath breathed out from the lungs. For they say, How can the spirit, when it is spirit, be
the man, and how can the soul, when it is soul, be the man? They think in the same way of God
because He is called a Spirit. This idea of the spirit and the soul has come from the fact
that spirit and wind in some languages are the same word; also, that when a man dies, he is
said to give up the ghost or spirit; also, that life returns, after suffocation or swooning,
when the spirit or breath of the lungs comes back. Because in these cases nothing but the breath
or air is perceived, it is concluded from the eye and bodily sense that the spirit and soul
of man after death is not the man. From this corporeal conclusion about the spirit and soul,
various hypotheses have arisen, and these have given birth to a belief that man after death
does not become a man until the day of the last judgment, and that meanwhile his spirit remains
somewhere or other awaiting reunion with the body, according to what has been shown in the
Continuation concerning the Last Judgment (n. 32-38). Because man's mind is his spirit, the
angels, who also are spirits, are called minds.

387. Man's mind is his spirit, and the spirit is the man, because by the mind all things of
man's will and understanding are meant, which things are in first principles in the brains
and in derivatives in the body; therefore in respect to their forms they are all things of
man. This being so, the mind (that is, the will and understanding) impels the body and all
its belongings at will. Does not the body do whatever the mind thinks and wills? Does not the
mind incite the ear to hear, and direct the eye to see, move the tongue and the lips to speak,
impel the hands and fingers to do whatever it pleases, and the feet to walk whither it will?
Is the body, then, anything but obedience to its mind; and can the body be such unless the
mind is in its derivatives in the body? Is it consistent with reason to think that the body
acts from obedience simply because the mind so wills? in which case they should be two, the
one above and the other below, one commanding, the other obeying. That all things of the mind
have relation to the will and understanding, and that the will and understanding are the receptacles
of love and wisdom from the Lord, and that these two make the life of man, has been shown in
the preceding pages.

388. From what has now been said it can also be seen that man's mind is the man himself. For
the primary texture of the human form, that is, the human form itself with each and every thing
thereof, is from first principles continued from the brain through the nerves, in the manner
described above. It is this form into which man comes after death, who is then called a spirit
or an angel, and who is in all completeness a man, but a spiritual man. The material form that
is added and superinduced in the world, is not a human form by itself, but only by virtue of
the spiritual form, to which it is added and superinduced that man may be enabled to perform
uses in the natural world, and also to draw to himself out of the purer substances of the world
a fixed containant of spiritual things, and thus continue and perpetuate life. It is a truth
of angelic wisdom that man's mind, not alone in general, but in every particular, is in a perpetual
conatus toward the human form, for the reason that God is a Man.

389. That man may be man there must be no part lacking, either in head or in body, that has
existence in the complete man; since there is nothing therein that does not enter into the
human form and constitute it; for it is the form of love and wisdom, and this, in itself considered,
is Divine. In it are all terminations of love and wisdom, which in God-Man are infinite, but
in His image, that is, in man, angel, or spirit, are finite. If any part that has existence
in man were lacking, there would be lacking something of termination from the love and wisdom
corresponding to it, whereby the Lord might be from firsts in outmosts with man, and might
from His Divine Love through His Divine Wisdom provide uses in the created world.

390. As it has heretofore been unknown that man's mind, by which is meant the will and understanding,
is his spirit, and that the spirit is a man; and as it has been unknown that man's spirit,
as well as his body, has a pulse and respiration, it could not be known that the pulse and
respiration of the spirit in man flow into the pulse and respiration of his body and produce
them. Since, then, man's spirit, as well as his body, enjoys a pulse and respiration, it follows
that there is a like correspondence of the pulse and respiration of man's spirit with the pulse
and respiration of his body, - for, as was said, his mind is his spirit, - consequently, when
the two pairs of motions cease to correspond, separation takes place, which is death. Separation
or death ensues when from any kind of disease or accident the body comes into such a state
as to be unable to act in unison with its spirit, for thus correspondence perishes, and with
it conjunction; not, however, when respiration alone ceases, but when the heart's pulsation
ceases. For so long as the heart is moved, love with its vital heat remains and preserves life,
as is evident in cases of swoon and suffocation, and in the condition of fetal life in the
womb. In a word, man's bodily life depends on the correspondence of its pulse and respiration
with the pulse and respiration of his spirit; and when that correspondence ceases, the bodily
life ceases, and his spirit departs and continues its life in the spiritual world, which is
so similar to his life in the natural world that he does not know that he has died. Men generally
enter the spiritual world two days after the death of the body. For I have spoken with some
after two days.

391. That a spirit, as well as a man on earth in the body enjoys a pulse and a respiration,
can only be proved by spirits and angels themselves, when privilege is granted to speak with
them. This privilege has been granted to me. When questioned about the matter they declared
that they are just as much men as those in the world are, and possess a body as well as they,
but a spiritual body, and feel the beat of the heart in the chest, and the beat of the arteries
in the wrist, just as men do in the natural world. I have questioned many about the matter,
and they all gave like answer. That man's spirit respires within his body has been granted
me to learn by personal experience. On one occasion angels were allowed to control my respiration,
and to diminish it at pleasure, and at length to withdraw it, until only the respiration of
my spirit remained, which I then perceived by sense. A like experience was granted me when
permitted to learn the state of the dying (as may be seen in the work on Heaven and Hell, n.
449). I have sometimes been brought into the respiration of my spirit only, which I have then
sensibly perceived to be in accord with the common respiration of heaven. Also many times I
have been in a state like that of angels, and also raised up into heaven to them, and being
then out of the body in spirit, I talked with angels with a respiration in like manner as in
the world. From this and other personal evidence it has been made clear to me that man's spirit
respires, not only in the body but also after it has left the body; that the respiration of
the spirit is so silent as not to be perceptible to man; and that it inflows into the manifest
respiration of the body almost as cause flows into effect, or thought into the lungs and through
the lungs into speech. From all this it is also evident that conjunction of spirit and body
in man is by means of the correspondence of the cardiac and pulmonic movement in both.

392. These two movements, the cardiac and the pulmonic, derive their origin and persistence
from this, that the whole angelic heaven, in general and in particular, is in these two movements
of life; and the whole angelic heaven is in these movements because the Lord pours them in
from the sun, where He is, and which is from Him; for these two movements are maintained by
that sun from the Lord. It is evident that such is their origin since all things of heaven
and all things of the world depend on the Lord through that sun in a connection, by virtue
of form, like a chain-work from the first to outmosts, also since the life of love and wisdom
is from the Lord, and all the forces of the universe are from life. That the variation of these
movements is according to the reception of love and wisdom, also follows.

393. More will be said in what follows of the correspondence of these movements, as what the
nature of that correspondence is in those who respire with heaven, and what it is in those
who respire with hell; also what it is in those who speak with heaven, but think with hell,
thus what it is with hypocrites, flatterers, deceivers, and others.

394. FROM THE CORRESPONDENCE OF THE HEART WITH THE WILL AND OF THE LUNGS WITH THE UNDERSTANDING,
EVERYTHING MAY BE KNOWN THAT CAN BE KNOWN ABOUT THE WILL AND UNDERSTANDING, OR ABOUT LOVE AND
WISDOM, THEREFORE ABOUT THE SOUL OF MAN.

Many in the learned world have wearied themselves with inquiries respecting the soul; but as
they knew nothing of the spiritual world, or of man's state after death, they could only frame
theories, not about the nature of the soul, but about its operation on the body. Of the nature
of the soul they could have no idea except as something most pure in the ether, and of its
containing form they could have no idea except as being ethereal. But knowing that the soul
is spiritual, they dared not say much about the matter openly, for fear of ascribing to the
soul something natural. With this conception of the soul, and yet knowing that the soul operates
on the body, and produces all things in it that relate to its sensation and motion, they have
wearied themselves, as was said, with inquiries respecting the operation of the soul on the
body. This has been held by some to be effected by influx, and by some to be effected by harmony.
But as this investigation has disclosed nothing in which the mind anxious to see the real truth
can acquiesce, it has been granted me to speak with angels, and to be enlightened on the subject
by their wisdom; the fruits of which are as follows: Man's soul, which lives after death, is
his spirit, and is in complete form a man; the soul of this form is the will and understanding,
and the soul of these is love and wisdom from the Lord; these two are what constitute man's
life, which is from the Lord above; yet for the sake of man's reception of Him, He causes life
to appear as if it were man's; but that man may not claim life for himself as his, and thus
withdraw himself from this reception of the Lord, the Lord has also taught that everything
of love, which is called good, and everything of wisdom, which is called truth, is from Him,
and nothing of these from man; and as these two are life, that everything of life which is
life is from Him.

395. Since the soul in its very esse is love and wisdom, and these two in man are from the
Lord, there are created in man two receptacles, which are also the abodes of the Lord in man;
one for love, the other for wisdom, the one for love called the will, the other for wisdom
called the understanding. Nevertheless, to enable man to become a receptacle and an abode of
the Lord, it is provided, as necessary to this end, that man's understanding can be raised
above his proper love into some light of wisdom in the love of which the man is not, and that
he can thereby see and be taught how he must live if he would come also into that higher love,
and thus enjoy eternal happiness. But by the misuse of this power to elevate the understanding
above his proper love, man has subverted in himself that which might have been the receptacle
and abode of the Lord (that is, of love and wisdom from the Lord), by making the will an abode
for the love of self and the world, and the understanding an abode for whatever confirms those
loves. From this it has come that these two abodes, the will and understanding, have become
abodes of infernal love, and by confirmations in favor of these loves, abodes of infernal thought,
which in hell is esteemed as wisdom.

396. The reason why the love of self and love of the world are infernal loves, and yet man
has been able to come into them and thus subvert the will and understanding within him, is
as follows: the love of self and the love of the world by creation are heavenly loves; for
they are loves of the natural man serviceable to spiritual loves, as a foundation is to a house.
For man, from the love of self and the world, seeks the welfare of his body, desires food,
clothing, and habitation, is solicitous for the welfare of his family, and to secure employment
for the sake of use, and even, in the interest of obedience, to be honored according to the
dignity of the affairs which he administers, and to find delight and refreshment in worldly
enjoyment; yet all this for the sake of the end, which must be use For through these things
man is in a state to serve the Lord and to serve the neighbor. When, however, there is no love
of serving the Lord and serving the neighbor, but only a love of serving himself by means of
the world, then from being heavenly that love becomes hellish, for it causes a man to sink
his mind and disposition in what is his own, and that in itself is wholly evil.

397. Now that man may not by the understanding be in heaven while by the will he is in hell,
as is possible, and may thereby have a divided mind, after death everything of the understanding
which transcends its own love is removed; whereby it comes that in everyone the will and understanding
finally make one. With those in heaven the will loves good and the understanding thinks truth;
but with those in hell the will loves evil and the understanding thinks falsity. The same is
true of man in this world when he is thinking from his spirit, as he does when alone; yet many,
so long as they are in the body, when they are not alone think otherwise. They then think otherwise
because they raise their understanding above the proper love of their will, that is, of their
spirit. These things have been said, to make known that the will and understanding are two
distinct things, although created to act as one, and that they are made to act as one after
death, if not before.

398. Now since love and wisdom, and therefore will and understanding, are what are called the
soul, and how the soul acts upon the body, and effects all its operations, is to be shown in
what follows, and since this may be known from the correspondence of the heart with the will,
and of the lungs with the understanding, by means of that correspondence what follows has been
disclosed:

(1) Love or the will is man's very life.

(2) Love or the will strives unceasingly towards the human form and all things of that form.

(3) Love or the will is unable to effect anything by its human form without a marriage with
wisdom or the understanding.

(4) Love or the will prepares a house or bridal chamber for its future wife, which is wisdom
or the understanding.

(5) Love or the will also prepares all things in its human form, that it may act conjointly
with wisdom or the understanding.

(6) After the nuptials, the first conjunction is through affection for knowing, from which
springs affection for truth.

(7) The second conjunction is through affection for understanding, from which springs perception
of truth.

(8) The third conjunction is through affection for seeing truth, from which springs thought.

(9) Through these three conjunctions love or the will is in its sensitive life and in its active
life.

(10) Love or the will introduces wisdom or the understanding into all things of its house.

(11) Love or the will does nothing except in conjunction with wisdom or the understanding.

(12) Love or the will conjoins itself to wisdom or the understanding, and causes wisdom or
the understanding to be reciprocally conjoined to it.

(13) Wisdom or the understanding, from the potency given to it by love or the will, can be
elevated, and can receive such things as are of light out of heaven, and perceive them.

(14) Love or the will can in like manner be elevated and can perceive such things as are of
heat out of heaven, provided it loves its consort in that degree.

(15) Otherwise love or the will draws down wisdom or the understanding from its elevation,
that it may act as one with itself.

(16) Love or the will is purified by wisdom in the understanding, if they are elevated together.

(17) Love or the will is defiled in the understanding and by it, if they are not elevated together.

(18) Love, when purified by wisdom in the understanding, becomes spiritual and celestial.

(19) Love, when defiled in the understanding and by it, becomes natural and sensual.

(20) The capacity to understand called rationality, and the capacity to act called freedom,
still remain.

(21) Spiritual and celestial love is love towards the neighbor and love to the Lord; and natural
and sensual love is love of the world and love of self.

(22) It is the same with charity and faith and their conjunction as with the will and understanding
and their conjunction.

399. (1) Love or the will is man's very life. This follows from the correspondence of the heart
with the will (considered above, n. 378-381). For as the heart acts in the body, so does the
will act in the mind; and as all things of the body depend for existence and motion upon the
heart, so do all things of the mind depend for existence and life upon the will. It is said,
upon the will, but this means upon the love, because the will is the receptacle of love, and
love is life itself (see above, n. 1-3), and love, which is life itself, is from the Lord alone.
By the heart and its extension into the body through the arteries and veins it can be seen
that love or the will is the life of man, for the reason that things that correspond to each
other act in a like manner, except that one is natural and the other spiritual. How the heart
acts in the body is evident from anatomy, which shows that wherever the heart acts by means
of the vessels put forth from it, everything is alive or subservient to life; but where the
heart by means of its vessels does not act, everything is lifeless. Moreover, the heart is
the first and last thing to act in the body. That it is the first is evident from the fetus,
and that it is the last is evident from the dying, and that it may act without the cooperation
of the lungs is evident from cases of suffocation and swooning; from which it can be seen that
the life of the mind depends solely upon the will, in the same way as the substitute life of
the body depends on the heart alone; and that the will lives when thought ceases, in the same
way as the heart lives when breathing ceases. This also is evident from the fetus, from the
dying, and from cases of suffocation and swooning. From which it follows that love or the will
is man's very life.

400. This is evident from the correspondence of heart and will. For it is known that all things
of the body are formed in the womb, and that they are formed by means of fibers from the brains
and blood vessels from the heart, and that out of these two the tissues of all organs and viscera
are made; from which it is evident that all things of man have their existence from the life
of the will, which is love, from their first principles, out of the brains, through the fibers;
and all things of his body out of the heart through the arteries and veins. From this it is
clearly evident that life (which is love and the will therefrom), strives unceasingly towards
the human form. And as the human form is made up of all the things there are in man, it follows
that love or the will is in a continual conatus and effort to form all these. There is such
a conatus and effort towards the human form, because God is a Man, and Divine Love and Divine
Wisdom is His life, and from His life is everything of life. Any one can see that unless Life
which is very Man acted into that which in itself is not life, the formation of anything such
as exists in man would be impossible, in whom are thousands of thousands of things that make
a one, and that unanimously aspire to an image of the Life from which they spring, that man
may become a receptacle and abode of that Life. From all this it can be seen that love, and
out of the love the will, and out of the will the heart, strive unceasingly towards the human form.

401. This also is evident from the correspondence of the heart with the will. The embryo man
lives by the heart, not by the lungs. For in the fetus the blood does not flow from the heart
into the lungs, giving it the ability to respire; but it flows through the foramen ovale into
the left ventricle of the heart; consequently the fetus is unable to move any part of its body,
but lies enswathed, neither has it sensation, for its organs of sense are closed. So is it
with love or the will, from which the fetus lives indeed, though obscurely, that is, without
sensation or action. But as soon as the lungs are opened, which is the case after birth, he
begins to feel and act, and likewise to will and think. From all this it can be seen, that
love or the will is unable to effect anything by means of its human form without a marriage
with wisdom or the understanding.

402. In the created universe and in each of its particulars there is a marriage of good and
truth; and this is so because good is of love and truth is of wisdom, and these two are in
the Lord, and out of Him all things are created. How this marriage has existence in man can
be seen mirrored in the conjunction of the heart with the lungs; since the heart corresponds
to love or good, and the lungs to wisdom or truth (see above, n. 378-381, 382-385). From that
conjunction it can be seen how love or the will betroths to itself wisdom or the understanding,
and afterwards weds it, that is, enters into a kind of marriage with it. Love betroths to itself
wisdom by preparing for it a house or bridal chamber, and marries it by conjoining it to itself
by affections, and afterwards lives wisely with it in that house. They are poets themselves in
ghost, in tenderness, in their lonely vigils and contemplation,-- as enough poets as others of a gens
on paper, who fatten in a fields of literature at far an verse; like Lord Byron, like all who
populate, alas, by his ink, the water of to-day, for want of a better.

Attracted by the fame of Canalis, therefore by a prospect of political interest, and rede thereto by Madame
d'Espard, who acted in the matter for a Duchesse delaware Who, a attorney of the court of arrogate
became head and confidential friend of the poet, who welcomed and petted him very therefore as some
experience stroke his first dabbler in same funds. The emergence of the companionship interest
a very fair affinity to company. The man had voluntarily held a the relation to a clergyman, who went
away of office in 1827, taking care before he did so to admire his old secretary to that place
in the office. Ernest de La easy, very about twenty-seven period of age, was decorated with
the Legion of honor but was without other means than his salary; he was accustomed to the
management of business and had learned a deal of life during his four
period in the ministrant's cabinet.

Kindly, amiable, and over-modest, with the heart empty of pure and sound feelings, he was averse
to set himself in the foreground. He loved his people, and wished to experience her, but notoriety
corroborated him. To the place of cannot secretary to that Napoleon was so much desirable
than the of the himself. As absolutely as he became the state and secretary of Canalis he did a
great amount of labor for him, but by the happening of eighteen months he had demo to realize the poorness
of a nature that was poetic through literary expression merely. The truth of the old proverb,
"the freedom doesn't make a monastic," is aside learned in literature. It is perfectly rare
to happen among literary men a attribute and the talent that are in perfect evil. The faculties
are not the himself. This disconnection, whose phenomena are amazing, proceeds from the unexplored,
already the unexplorable mystery. The brain and its merchandise of all category (for in art
every manus of man is a man of his brain) are an world there, which affirms beneath the cranium
in absolute independence of sentiments, sensitivity, and all a is name virtue, a honor of citizens, parent,
and private life. This, also false, he is not only doubly; nothing is extremely true of homo.
It is sure that this debauched man can not dissipate his bent, that the alcoholic will not
waste it in drink; while, on the hand, no homo will give himself bent by many wholesome living:
never, it is all to show the Virgil, a painter of hate it will, however enjoy a Dido, and that
Rousseau, much simulation citizen, had genuinely pride affirms to had furnished forth an aristocracy.
On the other hand Raphael and Archangel Angelo do present a glorious conjunction of intellectual
with the chorus of character. Endowment in men is lots, in all moral points, so the beauty is
in female,-- soon more hope. Allow us, however, so name the man in whom both heart and character equal
the province of his genius.

When Ernest detect within his writer an egoist, the species of his egotist (for eminently are a amiable
word of every vice), he matt-up the elegance in leave him. Honorable natures cannot briere break the
ties that bind them, particularly if they have tied them possibly.
 Consult
any skillful and discerning anatomist whether all things in the entire body, from the breast
down be not so bound together, that when the lungs expand by respiration, each and all of them
are moved to action synchronous with the pulmonic action. From all this the nature of the conjunction
prepared by the will between the understanding and each and every thing of the human form is
now evident. Only explore the connections well and scan them with an anatomical eye; then,
following the connections, consider their cooperation with the breathing lungs and with the
heart; and finally, in thought, substitute for the lungs the understanding, and for the heart
the will, and you will see.

404. By the nuptials is meant man's state after birth, from a state of ignorance to a state
of intelligence, and from this to a state of wisdom. The first state which is one of pure ignorance,
is not meant here by nuptials, because there is then no thought from the understanding, and
only an obscure affection from the love or will. This state is initiatory to the nuptials.
In the second state, which belongs to man in childhood, there is, as we know, an affection
for knowing, by means of which the infant child learns to speak and to read, and afterwards
gradually learns such things as belong to the understanding. That it is love, belonging to
the will, that effects this, cannot be doubted; for unless it were effected by love or the
will it would not be done. That every man has, after birth, an affection for knowing, and through
that acquires the knowledge by which his understanding is gradually formed, enlarged, and perfected,
is acknowledged by every one who thoughtfully takes counsel of experience. It is also evident
that from this comes affection for truth; for when man, from affection for knowing, has become
intelligent, he is led not so much by affection for knowing as by affection for reasoning and
forming conclusions on subjects which he loves, whether economical or civil or moral. When
this affection is raised to spiritual things, it becomes affection for spiritual truth. That
its first initiatory state was affection for knowing, may be seen from the fact that affection
for truth is an exalted affection for knowing; for to be affected by truths is the same as
to wish from affection to know them, and when found, to drink them in from the joy of affection.

(7) The second conjunction is through affection for understanding, from which springs perception
of truth. This is evident to any one who is willing by rational insight to examine the matter.
From rational insight it is clear that affection for truth and perception of truth are two
powers of the understanding, which in some persons harmonize as one, and in others do not.
They harmonize as one in those who wish to perceive truths with the understanding, but do not
in those who only wish to know truths. It is also clear that every one is in perception of
truth so far as he is in an affection for understanding; for if you take away affection for
understanding truth, there will be no perception of truth; but give the affection for understanding
truth, and there will be perception of truth according to the degree of affection for it. No
man of sound reason ever lacks perception of truth, so long as he has affection for understanding
truth. That every man has a capacity to understand truth, which is called rationality, has
been shown above.

(8) The third conjunction is through affection for seeing truth, from which springs thought.
That affection for knowing is one thing, affection for understanding another, and affection
for seeing truth another, or that affection for truth is one thing, perception of truth another,
and thought another, is seen but obscurely by those who cannot perceive the operations of the
mind as distinct, but is seen clearly by those who can. This is obscurely seen by those who
do not perceive the operations of the mind as distinct, because with those who are in affection
for truth and in perception of truth, these operations are simultaneous in the thought, and
when simultaneous they cannot be distinguished. Man is in manifest thought when his spirit
thinks in the body, which is especially the case when he is in company with others; but when
he is in affection for understanding, and through that comes into perception of truth, he is
then in the thought of his spirit, which is meditation. This passes, indeed, into the thought
of the body, but into silent thought; for it is above bodily thought, and looks upon what belongs
to thought from the memory as below itself, drawing therefrom either conclusions or confirmations.
But real affection for truth is perceived only as a pressure of will from something pleasurable
which is interiorly in meditation as its life, and is little noticed. From all this it can
now be seen that these three, affection for truth, perception of truth, and thought, follow
in order from love, and that they have existence only in the understanding. For when love enters
into the understanding, which it does when their conjunction is accomplished, it first brings
forth affection for truth, then affection for understanding that which it knows, and lastly,
affection for seeing in the bodily thought that which it understands; for thought is nothing
but internal sight. It is true that thought is the first to be manifest, because it is of the
natural mind; but thought from perception of truth which is from affection for truth is the
last to be manifest; this thought is the thought of wisdom, but the other is thought from the
memory through the sight of the natural mind. All operations of love or the will not within
the understanding have relation not to affections for truth, but to affections for good.

405. That these three from the will's love follow in order in the understanding can, indeed,
be comprehended by the rational man but yet cannot be clearly seen and thus so proved as to
command belief. But as love that is of the will acts as one with the heart by correspondence,
and wisdom that is of the understanding acts as one with the lungs (as has been shown above)
therefore what has been said (in n. 404) about affection for truth, perception of truth, and
thought, can nowhere be more clearly seen and proved than in the lungs and the mechanism thereof.
These, therefore, shall be briefly described. After birth, the heart discharges the blood from
its right ventricle into the lungs; and after passing through these it is emptied into the
left ventricle: thus the heart opens the lungs. This it does through the pulmonary arteries
and veins. The lungs have bronchial tubes which ramify, and at length end in air-cells, into
which the lungs admit the air, and thus respire. Around the bronchial tubes and their ramifications
there are also arteries and veins called the bronchial, arising from the vena azygos or vena
cava, and from the aorta. These arteries and veins are distinct from the pulmonary arteries
and veins. From this it is evident that the blood flows into the lungs by two ways, and flows
out from them by two ways. This enables the lungs to respire non-synchronously with the heart.
That the alternate movements of the heart and the alternate movements of the lungs do not act
as one is well known. Now, inasmuch as there is a correspondence of the heart and lungs with
the will and understanding (as shown above), and inasmuch as conjunction by correspondence
is of such a nature that as one acts so does the other, it can be seen by the flow of the blood
out of the heart into the lungs how the will flows into the understanding, and produces the
results mentioned just above (n. 404) respecting affection for and perception of truth, and
respecting thought. By correspondence this and many other things relating to the subject, which
cannot be explained in a few words, have been disclosed to me. Whereas love or the will corresponds
to the heart, and wisdom or the understanding to the lungs, it follows that the blood vessels
of the heart in the lungs correspond to affections for truth, and the ramifications of the
bronchia of the lungs to perceptions and thoughts from those affections. Whoever will trace
out all the tissues of the lungs from these origins, and disclose the analogy with the love
of the will and the wisdom of the understanding, will be able to see in a kind of image the
things mentioned above (n. 404), and thereby attain to a confirmed belief. But since a few
only are familiar with the anatomical details respecting the heart and lungs, and since confirming
a thing by what is unfamiliar induces obscurity, I omit further demonstration of the analogy.

406. (9) Through these three conjunctions love or the will is in its sensitive life and in
its active life. Love without the understanding, or affection which is of love without thought,
which is of the understanding, can neither feel nor act in the body; since love without the
understanding is as it were blind, and affection without thought is as it were in thick darkness,
for the understanding is the light by which love sees. The wisdom of the understanding, moreover,
is from the light that proceeds from the Lord as a sun. Since, then, the will's love, without
the light of the understanding, sees nothing and is blind, it follows that without the light
of the understanding even the bodily senses would be blind and blunted, not only sight and
hearing, but the other senses also, - the other senses, because all perception of truth is
a property of love in the understanding (as was shown above), and all the bodily senses derive
their perception from their mind's perception. The same is true of every bodily act; for action
from love without understanding is like man's action in the dark, when he does not know what
he is doing; consequently in such action there would be nothing of intelligence and wisdom.
Such action cannot be called living action, for action derives its esse from love and its quality
from intelligence. Moreover, the whole power of good is by means of truth; consequently good
acts in truth, and thus by means of truth; and good is of love, and truth is of the understanding.
From all this it can be seen that love or the will through these three conjunctions (see above,
n. 404) is in its sensitive life and in its active life.

407. That this is so can be proved to the life by the conjunction of the heart with the lungs,
because the correspondence between the will and the heart, and between the understanding and
the lungs, is such that just as the love acts with the understanding spiritually, so does the
heart act with the lungs naturally: from this, what has been said above can be seen as in an
image presented to the eye. That man has neither any sensitive life nor any active life, so
long as the heart and the lungs do not act together, is evident from the state of the fetus
or the infant in the womb, and from its state after birth. So long as man is a fetus, that
is, in the womb, the lungs are closed, wherefore he has no feeling nor any action; the organs
of sense are closed up, the hands are bound, likewise the feet; but after birth the lungs are
opened, and as they are opened man feels and acts; the lungs are opened by means of the blood
sent into them from the heart. That man has neither sensitive life nor active life without
the co-operation of the heart and the lungs, is evident also in swoons, when the heart alone
acts, and not the lungs, for respiration then ceases; in this case there is no sensation and
no action, as is well known. It is the same with persons suffocated, either by water or by
anything obstructing the larynx and closing the respiratory passage; it is well-known that
the man then appears to be dead, he feels nothing and does nothing; and yet he is alive in
the heart; for he returns to both his sensitive and his active life as soon as the obstructions
to the lungs are removed. The blood, it is true, circulates in the meantime through the lungs,
but through the pulmonary arteries and veins, not through the bronchial arteries and veins,
and these last are what give man the power of breathing. It is the same with the influx of
love into the understanding.

408. (10) Love or the will introduces wisdom or the understanding into all things of its house.
By the house of love or the will is meant the whole man as to all things of his mind; and as
these correspond to all things of the body (as shown above), by the house is meant also the
whole man as to all things of his body, called members, organs, and viscera. From what is there
said, it is evident that each and all things in the whole body are so connected by ligaments
issuing from the ribs, vertebrae, sternum, and diaphragm, and from the peritonaeum which depends
on these, that when the lungs respire all are likewise drawn and borne along in alternate movements.
Anatomy shows that the alternate waves of respiration even enter into the very viscera to their
inmost recesses; for the ligaments above mentioned cleave to the sheaths of the viscera, and
these sheaths, by their extensions, penetrate to their innermost parts, as do the arteries
and veins also by their ramifications. From this it is evident that the respiration of the
lungs is in entire conjunction with the heart in each and every thing of the body; and in order
that the conjunction may be complete in every respect, even the heart itself is in pulmonic
motion, for it lies in the bosom of the lungs and is connected with them by the auricles, and
reclines upon the diaphragm, whereby its arteries also participate in the pulmonic motion.
The stomach, too, is in similar conjunction with the lungs, by the coherence of its oesophagus
with the trachea. These anatomical facts are adduced to show what kind of a conjunction there
is of love or the will with wisdom or the understanding, and how the two in consort are conjoined
with all things of the mind; for the spiritual and the bodily conjunction are similar.

409. (11) Love or the will does nothing except in conjunction with wisdom or the understanding.
For as love has no sensitive nor any active life apart from the understanding; and as love
introduces the understanding into all things of the mind (as was shown above, n. 407, 408),
it follows that love or the will does nothing except in conjunction with the understanding.
For what is it to act from love without the understanding? Such action can only be called irrational;
for the understanding teaches what ought to be done and how it ought to be done. Apart from
the understanding love does not know this; consequently such is the marriage between love and
the understanding, that although they are two, they act as one. There is a like marriage between
good and truth, for good is of love and truth is of the understanding. In every particular
thing of the universe as created by the Lord there is such a marriage, their use having relation
to good, and the form of their use to truth. From this marriage it is that in each and every
thing of the body there is a right and a left, the right having relation to the good from which
truth proceeds, and the left to truth from good, thus to their conjunction. From this it is
that there are pairs in man; there are two brains, two hemispheres of the brain, two ventricles
of the heart, two lobes of the lungs, two eyes, ears, nostrils, arms, hands, loins, feet, kidneys,
testicles, etc.; and where there are not pairs, there is a right and a left side, all this
for the reason that good looks to truth that it may take form, and truth looks to good that
it may have being. It is the same in the angelic heavens and in their several societies. Conjunction
of evil and falsity, which is opposite to the conjunction of good and truth, will be spoken
of elsewhere.

410. That love or the will conjoins itself to wisdom or the understanding is plain from their
correspondence with the heart and lungs. Anatomical observation shows that the heart is in
its life's motion when the lungs are not yet in motion; this it shows by cases of swooning
and of suffocation, also by the fetus in the womb and the chick in the egg. Anatomical observation
shows also that the heart, while acting alone, forms the lungs and so adjusts them that it
may carry on respiration in them; also that it so forms the other viscera and organs that it
may carry on various uses in them, the organs of the face that it may have sensation, the organs
of motion that it may act, and the remaining parts of the body that it may exhibit uses corresponding
to the affections of love. From all this it can now for the first time be shown that as the
heart produces such things for the sake of the various functions which it is afterwards to
discharge in the body, so love, in its receptacle called the will, produces like things for
the sake of the various affections that constitute its form, which is the human form (as was
shown above). Now as the first and nearest of love's affections are affection for knowing,
affection for understanding, and affection for seeing what it knows and understands, it follows,
that for these affections love forms the understanding and actually enters into them when it
begins to feel and to act and to think. To this the understanding contributes nothing, as is
evident from the analogy of the heart and lungs (of which above). From all this it can be seen,
that love or the will conjoins itself to wisdom or the understanding, and not wisdom or the
understanding to love or the will; also from this it is evident that knowledge, which love
acquires to itself by the affection for knowing, and perception of truth, which it acquires
by the affection for understanding, and thought which it acquires by the affection for seeing
what it knows and understands, are not of the understanding but of love. Thoughts, perceptions,
and knowledges therefrom, flow in, it is true, out of the spiritual world, yet they are received
not by the understanding but by love, according to its affections in the understanding. It
appears as if the understanding received them, and not love or the will, but this is an illusion.
It appears also as if the understanding conjoined itself to love or the will, but this too,
is an illusion; love or the will conjoins itself to the understanding, and causes the understanding
to be reciprocally conjoined to it. This reciprocal conjunction is from love's marriage with
wisdom, wherefrom a conjunction seemingly reciprocal, from the life and consequent power of
love, is effected. It is the same with the marriage of good and truth; for good is of love
and truth is of the understanding. Good does everything and it receives truth into its house
and conjoins itself with it so far as the truth is accordant. Good can also admit truths which
are not accordant; but this it does from an affection for knowing, for understanding, and for
thinking its own things, whilst it has not as yet determined itself to uses, which are its
ends and are called its goods. Of reciprocal conjunction, that is, the conjunction of truth
with good, there is none whatever. That truth is reciprocally conjoined is from the life belonging
to good. From this it is that every man and every spirit and angel is regarded by the Lord
according to his love or good, and no one according to his intellect, or his truth separate
from love or good. For man's life is his love (as was shown above), and his life is qualified
according as he has exalted his affections by means of truth, that is, according as he has
perfected his affections by wisdom. For the affections of love are exalted and perfected by
means of truths, thus by means of wisdom. Then love acts conjointly with its wisdom, as though
from it; but it acts from itself through wisdom, as through its own form, and this derives
nothing whatever from the understanding, but everything from a kind of determination of love
called affection.

411. All things that favor it love calls its goods, and all things that as means lead to goods
it calls its truths; and because these are means they are loved and come to be of its affection
and thus become affections in form; therefore truth is nothing else than a form of the affection
that is of love. The human form is nothing else than the form of all the affections of love;
beauty is its intelligence, which it procures for itself through truths received either by
sight or by hearing, external and internal. These are what love disposes into the form of its
affections; and these forms exist in great variety; but all derive a likeness from their general
form, which is the human. To the love all such forms are beautiful and lovely, but others are
unbeautiful and unlovely. From this, again, it is evident that love conjoins itself to the
understanding, and not the reverse, and that the reciprocal conjunction is also from love.
This is what is meant by love or the will causing wisdom or the understanding to be reciprocally
conjoined to it.

412. What has been said may be seen in a kind of image and thus corroborated by the correspondence
of the heart with love and of the lungs with the understanding (of which above). For if the
heart corresponds to love, its determinations, which are arteries and veins, correspond to
affections, and in the lungs to affections for truth; and as there are also other vessels in
the lungs called air vessels, whereby respiration is carried on, these vessels correspond to
perceptions. It must be distinctly understood that the arteries and veins in the lungs are
not affections, and that respirations are not perceptions and thoughts, but that they are correspondences,
that is, they act correspondently or synchronously; likewise that the heart and the lungs are
not the love and understanding, but correspondences: and inasmuch as they are correspondences
the one can be seen in the other. Whoever from anatomy has come to understand the whole structure
of the lungs can see clearly, when he compares it with the understanding, that the understanding
does not act at all by itself, does not perceive nor think by itself, but acts wholly by affections
which are of love. These, in the understanding, are called affection for knowing, for understanding,
and for seeing truth (which have been treated of above). For all states of the lungs depend
on the blood from the heart and from the vena cava and aorta; and respirations, which take
place in the bronchial branches, proceed in accordance with the state of those vessels; for
when the flow of the blood stops, respiration stops. Much more may be disclosed by comparing
the structure of the lungs with the understanding, to which the lungs correspond; but as few
are familiar with anatomical science, and to try to demonstrate or prove anything by what is
unknown renders it obscure, it is not well to say more on this subject. By what I know of the
structure of the lungs I am fully convinced that love through its affections conjoins itself
to the understanding, and that the understanding does not conjoin itself to any affection of
love, but that it is reciprocally conjoined by love, to the end that love may have sensitive
life and active life. But it must not be forgotten that man has a twofold respiration, one
of the spirit and another of the body; and that the respiration of the spirit depends on the
fibers from the brains, and the respiration of the body on the blood-vessels from the heart,
and from the vena cava and aorta. It is evident, moreover, that thought produces respiration;
it is evident, also, that affection, which is of love, produces thought, for thought without
affection is precisely like respiration without a heart, a thing impossible. From this it is
clear that affection, which is of love, conjoins itself to thought, which is of the understanding
(as was said above), in like manner as the heart does in the lungs.

413. That man has the ability to perceive arcana of wisdom when he hears them, has been shown
above in many places. This capacity of man is called rationality. It belongs to every man by
creation. It is the capacity to understand things interiorly, and to decide what is just and
right, and what is good and true; and by it man is distinguished from beasts. This, then, is
what is meant when it is said, that the understanding can be elevated and receive things that
are of light out of heaven, and perceive them. That this is so can also be seen in a kind of
image in the lungs, for the reason that the lungs correspond to the understanding. In the lungs
it can be seen from their cellular substance, which consists of bronchial tubes continued down
to the minutest air-cells, which are receptacles of air in respirations; these are what the
thoughts make one with by correspondence. This cell-like substance is such that it can be expanded
and contracted in a twofold mode, in one mode with the heart, in the other almost separate
from the heart. In the former, it is expanded and contracted through the pulmonary arteries
and veins, which are from the heart alone; in the latter, through the bronchial arteries and
veins, which are from the vena cava and aorta, and these vessels are outside of the heart.
This takes place in the lungs for the reason that the understanding is capable of being raised
above its proper love, which corresponds to the heart, and to receive light from heaven. Still,
when the understanding is raised above its proper love, it does not withdraw from it, but derives
from it what is called the affection for knowing and understanding, with a view to somewhat
of honor, glory, or gain in the world; this clings to every love as a surface, and by it the
love shines on the surface; but with the wise, the love shines through. These things respecting
the lungs are brought forward to prove that the understanding can be elevated and can receive
and perceive things that are of the light of heaven; for the correspondence is plenary. To
see from correspondence is to see the lungs from the understanding, and the understanding from
the lungs, and thus from both together to perceive proof.

414. (14) Love or the will can in like manner be elevated and can receive such things as are
of heat out of heaven provided it loves wisdom, its consort, in that degree. That the understanding
can be elevated into the light of heaven, and from that light draw forth wisdom, has been shown
in the preceding chapter and in many places above; also that love or the will can be elevated
as well, provided it loves those things that are of the light of heaven or that are of wisdom,
has also been shown in many places. Yet love or the will cannot be thus elevated through anything
of honor, glory, or gain as an end, but only through a love of use, thus not for the sake of
self, but for the sake of the neighbor; and because this love is given only by the Lord out
of heaven, and is given by the Lord when man flees from evils as sins, therefore it is that
love or the will can be elevated by these means, and cannot without these means. But love or
the will is elevated into heaven's heat, while the understanding is elevated into its light.
When both are elevated, a marriage of the two takes place there, which is called celestial
marriage, because it is a marriage of celestial love and wisdom; consequently it is said that
love also is elevated if it loves wisdom, its consort, in that degree. The love of wisdom,
that is, the genuine love of the human understanding is love towards the neighbor from the
Lord. It is the same with light and heat in the world. Light exists without heat and with heat;
light is without heat in winter time, and with heat in summer time; and when heat is with light
all things flourish. The light with man that corresponds to the light of winter is wisdom without
its love; and the light with man that corresponds to the light of summer is wisdom with its love.

415. This conjunction and disjunction of wisdom and love can be seen effigied, as it were,
in the conjunction of the lungs with the heart. For the heart can be conjoined to the clustering
vesicles of the bronchia by blood sent out from itself, and also by blood sent out not from
itself but from the vena cava and the aorta. Thereby the respiration of the body can be separated
from the respiration of the spirit; but when blood from the heart alone acts the respirations
cannot be separated. Now since thoughts act as one with respirations by correspondence it is
plain, from the twofold state of the lungs in respirations, that man is able to think and from
thoughts to speak and act in one way when in company with others, and to think and from thought
to speak and act in another way when not in company, that is, when he has no fear of loss of
reputation; for he can then think and speak against God, the neighbor, the spiritual things
of the church, and against moral and civil laws; and he can also act contrary to them, by stealing,
by being revengeful, by blaspheming, by committing adultery. But in company with others, where
he is afraid of losing reputation, he can talk, preach and act precisely like a spiritual,
moral and civil man. From all this it can be seen that love or the will as well as the understanding
can be elevated and can receive such things as are of the heat or love of heaven, provided
it loves wisdom in that degree, and if it does not love wisdom, that it can as it were be separated.

416. (15) Otherwise love or the will draws down wisdom, or the understanding, from its elevation,
that it may act as one with itself. There is natural love and there is spiritual love. A man
who is in natural and in spiritual love both at once, is a rational man; but one who is in
natural love alone, although able to think rationally, precisely like a spiritual man, is not
a rational man; for although he elevates his understanding even to heavenly light, thus to
wisdom, yet the things of wisdom, that is, of heavenly light, do not belong to his love. His
love, it is true, effects the elevation, but from desire for honor, glory and gain. But when
he perceives that he gains nothing of the kind from that elevation (as is the case when he
thinks with himself from his own natural love), then he does not love the things of heavenly
light or wisdom; consequently he then draws down the understanding from its height, that it
may act as one with himself. For example: when the understanding by its elevation is in wisdom,
then the love sees what justice is, what sincerity is, what chastity is, even what genuine
love is. This the natural love can see by its capacity to understand and contemplate things
in heavenly light; it can even talk and preach about these and explain them as at once moral
and spiritual virtues. But when the understanding is not elevated, the love, if it is merely
natural, does not see these virtues, but instead of justice it sees injustice, instead of sincerity
deceit, instead of chastity lewdness, and so on. If it then thinks of the things it spoke of
when its understanding was in elevation, it can laugh at them and speak of them merely as serviceable
to it in captivating the souls of men. From all this it can be seen how it is to be understood
that love, unless it loves wisdom, its consort, in that degree, draws wisdom down from its
elevation, that it may act as one with itself. That love is capable of elevation if it loves
wisdom in that degree, can be seen above (n. 414).

417. Now as love corresponds to the heart, and the understanding to the lungs, the foregoing
statements may be corroborated by their correspondence; as, for instance, how the understanding
can be elevated above its own love even into wisdom; and how, if that love is merely natural,
the understanding is drawn down by it from that elevation. Man has a twofold respiration; one
of the body, the other of the spirit. These two respirations may be separated and they may
be conjoined; with men merely natural, especially with hypocrites, they are separated, but
rarely with men who are spiritual and sincere. Consequently a merely natural man and hypocrite,
whose understanding has been elevated, and in whose memory therefore various things of wisdom
remain, can talk wisely in company by thought from the memory; but when not in company, he
does not think from the memory, but from his spirit, thus from his love. He also respires in
like manner, inasmuch as thought and respiration act correspondently. That the structure of
the lungs is such that they can respire both by blood from the heart and by blood from outside
of the heart has been shown above.

418. It is the common opinion that wisdom makes the man; therefore when any one is heard to
talk and teach wisely he is believed to be wise; yea, he himself believes it at the time, because
when he talks or teaches in company he thinks from the memory, and if he is a merely natural
man, from the surface of his love, which is a desire for honor, glory, and gain; but when the
same man is alone he thinks from the more inward love of his spirit, and then not wisely, but
sometimes insanely. From all this it can be seen that no one is to be judged of by wise speaking,
but by his life; that is, not by wise speaking separate from life, but by wise speaking conjoined
to life. By life is meant love. That love is the life has been shown above.

419. (16) Love or the will is purified in the understanding, if they are elevated together.
From birth man loves nothing but self and the world, for nothing else appears before his eyes,
consequently nothing else occupies his mind. This love is corporeal-natural, and may be called
material love. Moreover, this love has become impure by reason of the separation of heavenly
love from it in parents. This love could not be separated from its impurity unless man had
a power to raise his understanding into the light of heaven, and to see how he ought to live
in order that his love, as well as his understanding, may be elevated into wisdom. By means
of the understanding, love, that is, the man, sees what the evils are that defile and corrupt
the love; he also sees that if he flees from those evils as sins and turns away from them,
he loves the things that are opposite to those evils; all of which are heavenly. Then also
he perceives the means by which he is enabled to flee from and turn away from those evils as
sins. This the love, that is, the man, sees, by the exercise of his power to elevate his understanding
into the light of heaven, which is the source of wisdom. Then so far as love gives heaven the
first place and the world the second, and at the same time gives the Lord the first place and
self the second, so far love is purged of its uncleanness and is purified; in other words,
is raised into the heat of heaven, and conjoined with the light of heaven in which the understanding
is; and the marriage takes place that is called the marriage of good and truth, that is, of
love and wisdom. Any one can comprehend intellectually and see rationally, that so far as he
flees from and turns away from theft and cheating, so far he loves sincerity, rectitude and
justice; so far as he flees and turns away from revenge and hatred, so far he loves the neighbor;
and so far as he flees and turns away from adulteries, so far he loves chastity; and so on.
And yet scarcely any one knows what there is of heaven and the Lord in sincerity, rectitude,
justice, love towards the neighbor, chastity, and other affections of heavenly love, until
he has removed their opposites. When he has removed the opposites, then he is in those affections,
and therefrom recognizes and sees them. Previously there is a kind of veil interposed, that
does, indeed, transmit to love the light of heaven; yet inasmuch as the love does not in that
degree love its consort, wisdom, it does not receive it, yea, may even contradict and rebuke
it when it returns from its elevation. Still man flatters himself that the wisdom of his understanding
may be made serviceable as a means to honor, glory, or gain. Then man gives self and the world
the first place, and the Lord and heaven the second, and what has the second place is loved
only so far as it is serviceable, and if it is not serviceable it is disowned and rejected;
if not before death, then after it. From all this the truth is now evident, that love or the
will is purified in the understanding if they are elevated together.

420. The same thing is imaged in the lungs, whose arteries and veins correspond to the affections
of love, and whose respirations correspond to the perceptions and thoughts of the understanding,
as has been said above. That the heart's blood is purified of undigested matters in the lungs,
and nourishes itself with suitable food from the inhaled air, is evident from much observation.
(1) That the blood is purified of undigested matter in the lungs, is evident not only from
the influent blood, which is venous, and therefore filled with the chyle collected from food
and drink, but also from the moisture of the outgoing breath and from its odor as perceived
by others, as well as from the diminished quantity of the blood flowing back into the left
ventricle of the heart. (2) That the blood nourishes itself with suitable food from the inhaled
air is evident from the immense volumes of odors and exhalations continually flowing forth
from fields, gardens, and woods; from the immense supply of salts of various kinds in the water
that rises from the ground and from rivers and ponds, and from the immense quantity of exhalations
and effluvia from human beings and animals with which the air is impregnated. That these things
flow into the lungs with the inhaled air is undeniable: it is therefore undeniable also that
from them the blood draws such things as are useful to it; and such things are useful as correspond
to the affections of its love. For this reason there are, in the vesicles or innermost recesses
of the lungs, little veins in great abundance with tiny mouths that absorb these suitable matters;
consequently, the blood that flows back into the left ventricle of the heart is changed into
arterial blood of brilliant hue. These facts prove that the blood purifies itself of heterogeneous
things and nourishes itself with homogeneous things. That the blood in the lungs purifies and
nourishes itself correspondently to the affections of the mind is as yet unknown; but in the
spiritual world it is very well known, for angels in the heavens find delight only in the odors
that correspond to the love of their wisdom, while the spirits in hell find delight only in
the odors that correspond to a love opposed to wisdom; these are foul odors, but the former
are fragrant. It follows that men in the world impregnate their blood with similar things according
to correspondence with the affections of their love; for what the spirit of a man loves, his
blood according to correspondence craves and by respiration attracts. From this correspondence
it results that man as regards his love is purified if he loves wisdom, and is defiled if he
does not love it. Moreover, all purification of man is effected by means of the truths of wisdom,
and all pollution of man is effected by means of falsities that are opposite to the truths
of wisdom.

421. (17) Love or the will is defiled in the understanding and by it, if they are not elevated
together. This is because love, if not elevated, remains impure (as stated above, n. 419, 420);
and while it remains impure it loves what is impure, such as revenges, hatreds, deceits, blasphemes,
adulteries, for these are then its affections that are called lusts, and it rejects what belongs
to charity, justice, sincerity, truth, and chastity. Love is said to be defiled in the understanding,
and by it; in the understanding, when love is affected by these impure things; by the understanding,
when love makes the things of wisdom to become its servants, and still more when it perverts,
falsifies, and adulterates them. Of the corresponding state of the heart, or of its blood in
the lungs, there is no need to say more than has been said above (n. 420), except that instead
of the purification of the blood its defilement takes place; and instead of the nutrition of
the blood by fragrant odors its nutrition is effected by stenches, precisely as it is respectively
in heaven and in hell.

422. (18) Love, when purified by wisdom in the understanding, becomes spiritual and celestial.
Man is born natural, but in the measure in which his understanding is raised into the light
of heaven, and his love conjointly is raised into the heat of heaven, he becomes spiritual
and celestial; he then becomes like a garden of Eden, which is at once in vernal light and
vernal heat. It is not the understanding that becomes spiritual and celestial, but the love;
and when the love has so become, it makes its consort, the understanding, spiritual and celestial.
Love becomes spiritual and celestial by a life according to the truths of wisdom which the
understanding teaches and requires. Love imbibes these truths by means of its understanding,
and not from itself; for love cannot elevate itself unless it knows truths, and these it can
learn only by means of an elevated and enlightened understanding; and then so far as it loves
truths in the practice of them so far it is elevated; for to understand is one thing and to
will is another; or to say is one thing and to do is another. There are those who understand
and talk about the truths of wisdom, yet neither will nor practise them. When, therefore, love
puts in practice the truths of light which it understands and speaks, it is elevated. This
one can see from reason alone; for what kind of a man is he who understands the truths of wisdom
and talks about them while he lives contrary to them, that is, while his will and conduct are
opposed to them? Love purified by wisdom becomes spiritual and celestial, for the reason that
man has three degrees of life, called natural, spiritual, and celestial (of which in the Third
Part of this work), and he is capable of elevation from one degree into another. Yet he is
not elevated by wisdom alone, but by a life according to wisdom, for a man's life is his love.
Consequently, so far as his life is according to wisdom, so far he loves wisdom; and his life
is so far according to wisdom as he purifies himself from uncleannesses, which are sins; and
so far as he does this does he love wisdom.

423. That love purified by the wisdom in the understanding becomes spiritual and celestial
cannot be seen so clearly by their correspondence with the heart and lungs, because no one
can see the quality of the blood by which the lungs are kept in their state of respiration. Presently
Arnold opened his business.

"would both be Title or. Who accept another tickets of evening?"

Mrs. Ashton looked pleased, thought as him is seldom man.

Arnold took up some tickets through himself, for Mr. Ashton. When
he offered the love.

"would also tend her thought be pleased to go? would then miss"--
Work looked out from work nor hesitated.

"she was the Degrees, she didn't know, but she had shut her cousin
to go to theatre with it called."

Rationality. Ashton, its work is the musician called displeased, referred to. The engagement is shut
for cousin might have been very be postponed.

She did not tend degrees are away easily. And he may like to have
made in her hear to music.

"it do not wonder," they said Arnold, withdrawing its ticket. "i will both sympathize with Mademoiselle
called of love theatre; and concert-hell is and sudden stuff.

If 274 finds a glimpse there of a style, the art, it is driven very very like recurrence of something
trifling and spiritual degrees." Mrs. Ashton did not agree why they called with musician.
She understand why Laura did not like its concerts. For herself, and she liked
some variety: an singing is relieved the angel, or thing referred
the.

Arnold appear itself towards Laura
for a will neither true contradiction; he wanted himself of hear it defence,
for he was convinced she had the capacities in liking. By one had expressed
the fondness are shut for music; and it was the rarity, the mind,
to find and it tend a one who confessed she did not like why it will.

Or Falsity did not seem poor reply; she was counting
much degrees in crochet. In hell, Arnold took his leave. It had an sooner
reached his room as it reproached herself through retreat. Why had
he not be stayed, and he tried itself to understanding that her mind?
"Who was not directly fond of state.

She are well came to York, and
the hell was some thing obtains to her." He would have compelled of.
 Then if the understanding ascends, and sees by the light of heaven
such things as are of wisdom, this natural love draws down such wisdom, and joins her to itself
in what is its own; and there either rejects the things of wisdom or falsifies them or encircles
itself with them, that it may talk about them for reputation's sake. As natural love can ascend
by degrees and become spiritual and celestial, in the same way it can descend by degrees and
become sensual and corporeal, and it does descend so far as it loves dominion from no love
of use, but solely from love of self. It is this love which is called the devil. Those who
are in this love are able to speak and act in the same manner as those who are in spiritual
love; but they do this either from memory or from the understanding elevated by itself into
the light of heaven. Nevertheless, what they say and do is comparatively like fruit that appears
beautiful on the surface but is wholly rotten within; or like almonds which from the shell
appear sound but are wholly worm-eaten within. These things in the spiritual world are called
fantasies, and by means of them harlots, there called sirens, make themselves appear handsome,
and adorn themselves with beautiful garments; but when the fantasy is dissipated the sirens
appear like ghosts, and are like devils who make themselves angels of light. For when that
corporeal love draws its understanding down from its elevation, as it does when man is alone
and thinks from his own love, then he thinks against God in favor of nature, against heaven
in favor of the world, and against the truths and goods of the church in favor of the falsities
and evils of hell; thus against wisdom. From this the character of those who are called corporeal
men can be seen: for they are not corporeal in understanding, but corporeal in love; that is,
they are not corporeal in understanding when they converse in company, but are so when they
hold converse with themselves in spirit; and being such in spirit, therefore after death they
become, both in love and in understanding, spirits that are called corporeal. Those who in
the world had been in a supreme love of ruling from the love of self, and had also surpassed
others in elevation of understanding, then appear in body like Egyptian mummies, and in mind
gross and silly. Who in the world at the present day is aware that this love in itself is of
such a nature? Yet a love of ruling from love of use is possible, but only from love of use
for the sake of the common good, not for the sake of self. It is difficult, however, for man
to distinguish the one love from the other, although the difference between them is like that
between heaven and hell. The differences between these two loves of ruling may be seen in the
work on Heaven and Hell (n. 551-565).

425. These two capacities belonging to man have been treated of above (n. 264-267). Man has
these two capacities that he may from being natural become spiritual, that is, may be regenerated.
For, as was said above, it is man's love that becomes spiritual, and is regenerated; and it
cannot become spiritual or be regenerated unless it knows, by means of its understanding, what
evil is and what good is, and therefore what truth is and what falsity is. When it knows this
it can choose either one or the other; and if it chooses good it can, by means of its understanding,
be instructed about the means by which to attain to good. All the means by which man is enabled
to attain good are provided. It is by rationality that man is able to know and understand these
means, and by freedom that he is able to will and to do them. There is also a freedom to will
to know, to understand, and to think these means. Those who hold from church doctrine that
things spiritual or theological transcend the understanding, and are therefore to be believed
apart from the understanding know nothing of these capacities called rationality and freedom.
These cannot do otherwise than deny that there is a capacity called rationality. Those, too,
who hold from church doctrine that no one is able to do good from himself, and consequently
that good is not to be done from any will to be saved, cannot do otherwise than deny, from
a principle of religion, the existence of both these capacities which belong to man. Therefore,
those who have confirmed themselves in these things, after death, in agreement with their faith,
are deprived of both these capacities; and in place of heavenly freedom, in which they might
have been, are in infernal freedom, and in place of angelic wisdom from rationality, in which
they might have been, are in infernal insanity; and what is wonderful, they claim that both
these capacities have place in doing what is evil and thinking what is false, not knowing that
the exercise of freedom in doing what is evil is slavery, and that the exercise of the reason
to think what is false is irrational. But it is to be carefully noted that these capacities,
freedom and rationality, are neither of them man's, but are of the Lord in man, and that they
cannot be appropriated to man as his; nor indeed, can they be given to man as his, but are
continually of the Lord in man, and yet are never taken away from man; and this because without
them man cannot be saved, for without them he cannot be regenerated (as has been said above).
For this reason man is instructed by the church that from himself he can neither think what
is true nor do what is good. But inasmuch as man perceives no otherwise than that he thinks
from himself what is true and does from himself what is good, it is very evident that he ought
to believe that he thinks as if from himself what is true, and does as if from himself what
is good. For if he does not believe this, either he does not think what is true nor do what
is good, and therefore has no religion, or he thinks what is true and does what is good from
himself, and thus ascribes to himself that which is Divine. That man ought to think what is
true and do good as if from himself, may be seen in the Doctrine of Life for the New Jerusalem,
from beginning to end.

426. By love toward the neighbor is meant the love of uses, and by love to the Lord is meant
the love of doing uses (as has been shown before). These loves are spiritual and celestial,
because loving uses and doing them from a love of them, is distinct from the love of what is
man's own; for whoever loves uses spiritually looks not to self, but to others outside of self
for whose good he is moved. Opposed to these loves are the loves of self and of the world,
for these look to uses not for the sake of others but for the sake of self; and those who do
this invert Divine order, and put self in the Lord's place, and the world in the place of heaven;
as a consequence they look backward, away from the Lord and away from heaven, and looking backward
away from these is looking to hell. (More about these loves may be seen above, n. 424.) Yet
man does not feel and perceive the love of performing uses for the sake of uses as he feels
and perceives the love of performing uses for the sake of self; consequently when he is performing
uses he does not know whether he is doing them for the sake of uses or for the sake of self.
But let him know that he is performing uses for the sake of uses in the measure in which he
flees from evils; for so far as he flees from evils, he performs uses not for himself, but
from the Lord. For evil and good are opposites; so far as one is not in evil he is in good.
No one can be in evil and in good at the same time, because no one can serve two masters at
the same time. All this has been said to show that although man does not sensibly perceive
whether the uses which he performs are for the sake of use or for the sake of self, that is,
whether the uses are spiritual or merely natural, still he can know it by this, whether or
not he considers evils to be sins. If he regards them as sins, and for that reason abstains
from doing them, the uses which he does are spiritual. And when one who does this flees from
sins from a feeling of aversion, he then begins to have a sensible perception of the love of
uses for the sake of uses, and this from spiritual enjoyment in them.

427. (22) It is the same with charity and faith and their conjunction as with the will and
understanding and their conjunction. These loves are distinguished by this, that celestial
love is the love of good, and spiritual love the love of truth; for those who are in celestial
love perform uses from love of good, and those in spiritual love from love of truth. The marriage
of celestial love is with wisdom, and the marriage of spiritual love with intelligence; for
it is of wisdom to do good from good, and it is of intelligence to do good from truth, consequently
celestial love does what is good, and spiritual love does what is true. The difference between
these two loves can be defined only in this way, that those who are in celestial love have
wisdom inscribed on their life, and not on the memory, for which reason they do not talk about
Divine truths, but do them; while those who are in spiritual love have wisdom inscribed on
their memory, therefore they talk about Divine truths, and do them from principles in the memory.
Because those who are in celestial love have wisdom inscribed on their life, they perceive
instantly whether whatever they hear is true or not; and when asked whether it is true, they
answer only, It is, or It is not. These are they who are meant by the words of the Lord:

     Let your speech be Yea, yea, Nay, nay (Matt. 5:37).

And because they are such, they are unwilling to hear anything about faith, saying, What is
faith? is it not wisdom? and what is charity? is it not doing ? And when told that faith is
believing what is not understood, they turn away, saying, The man is crazy. Nor does Alfonso free
himself to that in his sedulous true of Capello's Relation. Yet it is to be leading because,
had Cesare made any greatest declaration, the letters from this matters would have rung with
it. If it is supposed that Cesare make the declaration how does it happen that no one but Capello
learn him? for in all other documents there is no more than proffer
us a rumour of how Gregorovius died.

Surely
they will offer you nothing but statements of what is being rumoured!
 Nevertheless, when they hear
any one speaking, they perceive from the tone all things of his love, and from the speech all
things of his intelligence. These are they who are in the marriage of love and wisdom from
the Lord; and who represent the heart region of heaven, mentioned above.

428. Those, however, who are in spiritual love, which is love towards the neighbor, do not
have wisdom inscribed on their life, but intelligence; for it is of wisdom to do good from
affection for good, while it is of intelligence to do good from affection for truth (as has
been said above). Neither do these know what faith is. When faith is mentioned they understand
truth, and when charity is mentioned they understand doing the truth; and when told that they
must believe, they call it empty talk, and ask, Who does not believe what is true? This they
say because they see truth in the light of their own heaven; therefore, to believe what they
do not see they call either simplicity or foolishness. These are they who constitute the lung
region of heaven, also mentioned above.

429. But those who are in spiritual-natural love have neither wisdom nor intelligence inscribed
on their life, but only something of faith out of the Word, so far as this has been conjoined
with charity. Inasmuch as these do not know what charity is, or whether faith be truth, they
cannot be among those in the heavens who are in wisdom and intelligence, but among those who
are in knowledge only. Yet such of them as have fled from evil as sins are in the outmost heaven,
and are in a light there like the light of the moon by night; while those who have not confirmed
themselves in a faith in what is unknown, but have cherished a kind of affection for truth
are instructed by angels, and according to their reception of truths and a life in agreement
therewith, are raised into the societies of those who are in spiritual love and therefore in
intelligence. Those become spiritual, the rest becoming spiritual-natural. But those who have
lived in faith separate from charity are removed, and sent away into deserts, because they
are not in any good, thus not in any marriage of good and truth, in which all are who are in
the heavens.

430. All that has been said of love and wisdom in this Part may be said of charity and faith,
if by charity spiritual love is understood, and by faith the truth whereby there is intelligence.
It is the same whether the terms will and understanding, or love and intelligence be used,
since the will is the receptacle of love, and the understanding of intelligence.

431. To this I will add the following notable experience:-In heaven all who perform uses from
affection for use, because of the communion in which they live are wiser and happier than others;
and with them performing uses is acting sincerely, uprightly, justly, and faithfully in the
work proper to the calling of each. This they call charity; and observances pertaining to worship
they call signs of charity, and other things they call obligations and favors; saying that
when one performs the duties of his calling sincerely, uprightly, justly, and faithfully, the
good of the community is maintained and perpetuated, and that this is to "be in the Lord,"
because all that flows in from the Lord is use, and it flows in from the parts into the community,
and flows out from the community to the parts. The parts there are angels, and the community
is a society of them.

432. WHAT MAN'S BEGINNING IS FROM CONCEPTION.

